Capital One Financial Corporation
2010 Annual Report
1680 Capital One Drive
McLean, VA 22102
(703) 720-1000
www.capitalone.com
Capital One Financial Corporation   201
0 Annual ReportCreated and produced by  Capital One and the following:Fultz Marketing, Design and Production
Vedros and Associates, Photography
Allied Printing Services, Inc., Printing10%Cert no. SW-COC-001215
Corporate Office1680 Capital One DriveMcLean, VA 22102
(703) 720-1000
www.capitalone.comAnnual MeetingWednesday, May 11, 2011
10:00 a.m. Eastern Time
Capital One Headquarters
1680 Capital One Drive
McLean, VA 22102Principal Investor ContactJeff Norris
Managing Vice President, 
Investor Relations
Capital One Financial Corporation
1680 Capital One Drive
McLean, VA 22102
(703) 720-1000Common StockListed on New York Stock Exchange®Stock Symbol COF
Member of S&P 500®Corporate Registrar/Transfer AgentComputershare Investor Services
P.O. Box 43078
Providence, RI 02940-3078
Tel: (888) 985-2057
Outside the U.S., Canada, & 
Puerto Rico:  (781) 575-2725Hearing impaired: (781) 575-2692
Email: shareholder@computershare.com
Internet: www.computershare.comBy Overnight Courier to:Computershare Investor Services
250 Royall Street
Canton, MA 02021Independent AuditorsErnst & Young LLPCORPORATE INFORMATIONABOUT 
CAPITAL ONECapital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries, 
which include Capital One, N.A. and Capital One Bank (USA), N.A., had $122.2 billion in deposits and $197.5
 billion in total assets outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One 

offers a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses, and commercial 

clients. Capital One, N.A. has approximately 1,000 branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, 
Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. A Fortune 500® company, Capital One trades 
on the New York Stock Exchange® under the symbol ﬁCOFﬂ and is included in the S&P 100® index.The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that 
actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors 
including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions in the U.S., the U.K., Canada, or 
Capital One™s local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels, interest rates, consumer income and 
confidence, spending and savings that may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs, and deposit activity; 

an increase or decrease in credit losses (including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in 

the credit environment); financial, legal, regulatory, tax, or accounting changes or actions, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder; developments, changes, or actions relating to any litigation matter involving Capital One; increases or decreases in interest rates; Capital One™s ability to access the capital markets 
at attractive rates and terms to capitalize and fund its operations and future growth; the success of Capital One™s marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers; increases or decreases in Capital One™s aggregate loan balances or the number
 of customers and the growth rate and composition thereof, including increases or decreases resulting from factors such 
as shifting product mix, amount of actual marketing expenses Capital One incurs, and attrition of loan balances; the level 

of future repurchase or indemnification requests Capital One may receive, the actual future performance of mortgage 
loans relating to such requests, the success rates of claimants against Capital One, any developments in litigation, and 
the actual recoveries Capital One may make on any collateral relating to claims against it; the amount and rate of 
deposit growth; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or Capital One with 

respect to practices, products, or financial condition; any significant disruption in Capital One™s operations or technology 
platform; Capital One™s ability to maintain a compliance infrastructure suitable for its size and complexity; Capital One™s 
ability to control costs; the amount of, and rate of growth in, Capital One™s expenses as its business develops or changes 

or as it expands into new market areas; Capital One™s ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; any 

significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the United States Mail service affecting Capital One™s response 
rates and consumer payments; Capital One™s ability to recruit and retain experienced personnel to assist in the management and operations of new products and services; changes in the labor and employment markets; the risk that cost savings 
and any other synergies from Capital One™s acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than 
expected; disruptions from Capital One™s acquisitions negatively impacting its ability to maintain relationships with 
customers, employees, or suppliers; fraud or misconduct by Capital One™s customers, employees, or business partners; 
competition from providers of products and services that compete with Capital One™s businesses; and other risk factors 
listed from time to time in reports that Capital One files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ﬁSECﬂ), 
including, but not limited to, the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.All Capital One service marks are owned by Capital One. All rights reserved. All third-party trademarks used herein are owned by the respective entity. All rights reserved. © Copyright 2011 Capital One Services, Inc.Copies of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available without charge at www.capitalone.com. 
The most recent certifications by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to the Form 10-K. We have also filed with the New York Stock Exchange® the most 
recent Annual CEO Certification as required by Section 303A.12 (a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.Cover photo Œ Our newly opened Dolley Madison Branch. Capital One, the only top-ten bank headquartered in our 

nation™s capital, has more branches and ATM™s than any 

of its competitors in metropolitan Washington.1Chairman™s Letter to Shareholders and FriendsIn 2010 Capital One emerged from the Great Recession as one of the nation™s strong banks. As a result 
 of our proactive, multi-year strategy to transform the Company into a bank, we avoided the fate suffered 
 by capital markets-funded specialty lenders. We™ve become one of the leading banks in the United States by combining the best aspects of national scale and local banking. Over the past three years, we successfully weathered the impact of three sweeping external forces Œ the Great Recession, the most signi˜cant ˜nancial legislative and regulatory reforms in generations (including 

the CARD Act and the Dodd-Frank Act), and balance sheet consolidation under new accounting rules 

(FAS 166/167). Along the way, we made major strides in many key areas, including bank infrastructure, 

customer service, new products and partnerships, capital management, and attracting and developing 

great talent. These moves have positioned us to grow organically, capitalize on opportunities created by 
 the market turmoil, and continue to deliver long-term shareholder value. Capital One delivered solid results in 2010,  driven by strong earnings and improved credit Operating earnings were $3.1 billion, or $6.68 per share, with GAAP earnings of $2.7 billion, or $6.01 per 
share. Charge-offs fell to $6.7 billion, or 5.2%, from $8.4 billion, or 5.9%, a year earlier Œ an improvement 

of $1.7 billion. Capital One was among a handful of banks that posted annual operating pro˜ts in each 

year of the recession, and 2010™s results were considerably stronger than 2009™s. Our businesses delivered strong core results in 2010, posting $1.3 billion in net income before the impacts 
of changes in our allowance for loan losses. Several factors impacted our allowance for loan losses 
 in 2010. Loan balances declined in response to our tighter underwriting and weak consumer demand. 

Credit improved signi˜cantly as our national lending businesses passed the cyclical peak in charge-offs 

and delinquencies. And with the FAS 166/167 accounting change, we brought more than $45 billion in 
loans onto our balance sheet and built our allowance for loan losses by over $4 billion at the beginning 

of 2010. The cumulative impact of these factors was a signi˜cant allowance release, which added to 

our 2010 net income. 
Our stock price rose 11% in 2010, to $42.56 per share at year-end, and continued to rise in early 2011. 
 At the end of February, our stock price had risen to $49.77, a year-to-date increase of 16.9%, and an 
increase of 29.8% from the beginning of 2010. Through February 2011, total shareholder return since our 

initial public offering in 1994 has been 952.9%, compared to total shareholder returns of 101.1% in the 

KBW Bank Index and 185.1% in the S&P 500® Stock Index over that same time period.2Our Credit Card business continues 
 to produce industry-leading returnsCapital One™s card business had an outstanding year. After two years at the billion-dollar mark, net income 
nearly doubled, to $1.9 billion, in 2010. After-tax returns on managed loans were 3.4%, the highest in 

the industry for the sixth straight year, with mid-pack credit losses. 
By the end of 2010 we had implemented substantially all the requirements  of the CARD Act. Our adjustment was relatively smooth, primarily 
because we did not rely on many of the practices it banned Œ 

practices such as long 0% balance transfer teasers coupled with 
aggressive penalty repricing. Our revenue margin is close to its 

pre-recession, pre-CARD Act level, and our business model is 

largely intact. Capital One is in an excellent position to gain market 

share on the newly leveled playing ˜eld created by the CARD Act. 
We launched several breakthrough cards in 2010. Venture Rewards and 

Venture for Business provide double rewards on all purchases. Rewards 
don™t expire, and cardholders can redeem miles to fly on any airline with no 
blackout dates. Money® Magazine called Venture the ﬁBest Rewards Card if you aim 
 to rack up airline miles,ﬂ and its exceptional value has won praise from 

Time®, Newsweek®, ABC News®, CBS News®, CNNMoney®, and Consumer Reports®. Consumer response to initial marketing campaigns has been 
excellent. Aspire World MasterCard®, a similar product tailored 
to the Canadian market, has also been a big hit. 
The card business is opening significant new channels by 
forming partnerships with leading retailers like Kohl™s® in the 
United States and Hudson™s Bay Company® in Canada. We also 
launched two co-branded cards, the Sony CardSM from Capital One 
in the United States and the Delta SkyMiles® World MasterCard® from Capital One in Canada. Our new partners greatly expand 

our customer universe, and our partners bene˜t from many of Capital One™s great 

strengths: our powerful brand; our award-winning customer service; and our proven skills in underwriting, 

product innovation, and marketing.Capital One has always worked hard to deliver high-quality customer service, but this year™s drive to do even better for our cardholders produced signi˜cant enhancements. We™ve sharpened execution across the 
3ﬁ We™ve become one of the leading banks in the 
United States by combining the best aspects of 

national-scale lending and local-scale consumer 

and commercial banking.ﬂ 4board, tailored phone service by customer segment, and improved our Web site, a bene˜t to all customers 
but especially to those who like to manage their accounts online. The payoffs: customer satisfaction 

rose dramatically, and our High Value Servicing team received the International Customer Management 

Institute™s (ICMI®) coveted Global Call Center of the Year Award as well as the prestigious Call Center 
Certi˜cationSM Program from J.D. Power and Associates. Our risk operations team has provided assistance to millions of cardholders impacted by the recession. 
The team™s dedication to the task is just one example of the extra effort we™ve made to help our customers 

and communities through these hard times. We lent a hand because it was the right thing to do for 
 our customers. It™s the right thing to do for our shareholders, too. The work of our risk operations team 

enhanced customer loyalty and helped to retain billions of dollars in loans. Capital One™s international businesses are performing well, and posted net income of $376 million in 2010. 
 In the UK, we™ve successfully navigated severe cyclical challenges and completed a successful turnaround 
 to deliver strong pro˜ts. Canada generally fared better than many other parts of the world during the 
recession, and our Canadian business continued to deliver steady pro˜tability.Consumer Banking delivered strong pro˜ts, 
 improving credit, and outstanding growth in low-cost 
 deposits and high-value customer relationshipsConsumer Banking at Capital One includes our Retail Deposits business, our Mortgage portfolio, and our 

Auto Finance business. Net income for 2010 was $906 million. Net charge-offs improved signi˜cantly 

over the course of the year, to 1.98% from 2.85%.Deposits in our Consumer Banking business increased $8.8 billion, to $83 billion, and we have shifted 
the mix away from higher-cost time deposits toward lower-cost liquid savings and checking accounts. The 

mix shift, along with disciplined deposit pricing, improved our deposit interest expense by 28 basis points 
in 2010, to 1.13%, which lowers our overall funding costs and adds even more strength to the balance 

sheet. In the process, we are attracting high-value customers, and as we deepen our relationships with 

them, we can grow both loans and revenues. Although Capital One™s Consumer Banking business inherited troubled mortgages in banking acquisitions, 
mortgages now account for only about $12 billion, or 9.6%, of Capital One™s total loans. On the whole, credit 

results for the mortgage portfolio have been relatively strong through the downturn, with charge-off rates 
below 1% and non-performing asset levels below those of most of our competitors. About $5 billion of these 

mortgages were originated by Chevy Chase Bank. We ﬁmarkedﬂ these loans at the time of the acquisition, so 

we believe our credit metrics and income statement are largely insulated from the credit risk of these loans. 
5We remain focused on managing and reducing the mortgage portfolio™s credit risks. Although we expect that further declines in home prices will put additional pressure on mortgage credit in 2011, we believe 

that our portfolio will continue to perform relatively well.We shut down the out-of-footprint national mortgage origination business early in the cycle (in August 
2007), but Capital One is still exposed to rep and warranty risks for mortgage loans made and sold prior 
 to that time. While the mortgages 

giving rise to this risk came with our 
bank purchases, which proved to 
 be essential given the subsequent 

economic collapse, there will be a 

long tail of mortgage exposure to 

work through.Early in the recession, we retrenched and repositioned our Auto Finance 

business, scaling back originations 

from $13.2 billion in 2007 to $5.3 

billion in 2009. We also cut the expense 

base by over 25%. We launched 

our ﬁDiamond Dealerﬂ program to 

concentrate on Capital One™s deepest 

and best dealer relationships. In 

2010 our Auto Finance business 

really turned the corner. Pro˜ts were 
very strong, and originations grew to 
nearly $8 billion. By the second half 
of 2010, originations were running at an annualized rate of over $9 billion. Credit improved dramatically, 

with charge-offs falling from 4.55% to just 2.65%. Capital One Auto Finance remains one of the industry™s 

best-positioned national players.We converted Chevy Chase Bank to the Capital One brand in 2010. Capital One is the only top-ten bank 
headquartered in the nation™s capital. We have the most branches and ATMs in the Washington, D.C., 

metropolitan area, which is one of the the premier banking markets in the country. 
In 2010 we also built a uni˜ed, scalable banking infrastructure across our footprint, from New York and New Jersey to Washington to Louisiana and Texas. The common platform means better customer service, 
lower operational risk, and lower costs. It also creates new revenue opportunities. 6Commercial Banking held its own through 
 the worst of the commercial credit cycle 
Despite the distress in commercial real estate and mid-market commercial lending markets, our Commercial Banking business 
posted net income of $160 million in 2010. Revenue increased 
12% as a result of improving loan margins, growth in our 
 deposit book, and higher non-interest income. Credit performance 

remains relatively strong, with the charge-off rate in the 1% 

range. Non-performing assets were down $248 million at 

year-end from their peak in the first quarter of 2010. 

Deposits grew by $2.2 billion, to $22.6 billion, while deposit 

interest expense improved 19 basis points, to just 0.61%.With the worst of the commercial credit cycle behind us, 
we expect to grow low-risk commercial loans in 2011. 

Increased emphasis on treasury management services and 

stronger relationships with our commercial customers 

drove the growth in non-interest income in 2010 and is 

expected to generate more revenue growth opportunities 
 in 2011. We™re delivering strong commercial deposit 

growth at attractive spreads, and deposit growth brings 
 new customers and strengthens existing relationships. 

We can generate future loan and revenue growth by 

expanding these relationships.Our balance sheet is a 
 major source of strength Throughout the recession, our analytical rigor and vigilance kept our balance sheet strong, reduced our risk, 

and helped us identify and seize opportunities as they arose in the rapidly changing economic landscape. 
In 2010 we added $8.8 billion in retail deposits, which are a stable, low-cost source of funding. At year-end, 
our loan-to-deposit ratio had fallen to 1.03. We also have a $41.5 billion portfolio of high-quality securities, 

which is a storehouse of readily available liquidity and a source of signi˜cant earnings. We ended the year in a strong capital position. Our tangible common equity (TCE) ratio was 6.9%, and 
our Tier 1 common ratio was 8.8%. We are one of the few banks that did not have to signi˜cantly dilute 

shareholders with costly equity raises to address the challenges of the Great Recession.Products and services offered by Capital One, N.A., Member FDIC. ©2010 Capital One. Capital One is a federally registered service mark. All rights reserved.
To learn more visit capitalonebank.com
We™re rolling up our sleeves 
to help D.C. businesses grow.
When D.C.™s largest locally owned health club was looking to expand, they turned to the area™s largest locally owned bank 
for help. With Capital One Bank
®, Sport & Health plans to open new clubs every year. Their Capital One commercial banker, 
Rich Amador, is working hard to provide the financing and cash flow tools they need to grow their business and create 

jobs in the Washington, D.C. area.
Capital One
Commercial Banker
Rich Amador
Sport & Health

Business Owner
Jonathan Adler
Products and services offered by Capital One, N.A., Member FDIC. ©2010 Capital One. Capital One is a federally registered service mark. All rights reserved.
®To learn more, stop by a branch, call 1-888-755-BANK, 
or visit capitalonebank.com/smallbusiness.
It takes more than great banking to grow a business like Z. Dave™s towboat operation. It takes a banker 
like Dean, who™s ready to roll up his sleeves and learn the ropes of your small business, helping out with 

everything from cash ˜ ow tools to cargo, from payloads to payroll.
 Get onboard with the hardest 
working bankers in business.
Deloach Marine 

Services Owner
Z. Dave Deloach
Capital One 

Business Banker
Dean Beeson
Our Commercial and Small Business bankers 
 have the expertise and are willing to go the extra 
 mile to help make our customers successful. 7We continue to be very comfortable with our capital and its expected trajectory. TCE has improved consistently. 
Regulatory ratios should rise steadily after a temporary decline in the ˜rst quarter of 2011, resulting from the 

˜nal phase-in of the new accounting rules and an increase in disallowed deferred tax assets that came 

with the turn of the calendar year. We expect that Basel III, the latest update of the international Basel Accords 

on ˜nancial regulation, will not have signi˜cant effects on Capital One. In 2011, years before the new 

accords take effect, our capital should exceed Basel III required minimums and conservation buffers.
Our powerful brand is a critical strategic asset
The long-term investment we have made in building a strong brand continues to pay off. Capital One is now 
one of a handful of ˜nancial services companies with a brand that has achieved near-universal awareness 

and the scale to advertise on a national level. A brand is a promise, and brand strength comes from keeping 

the promise year after year, with great products, great value, and great service. For us, that means constant 

innovation and constant improvement. We also work 

hard to make sure that Capital One shareholders 

are getting the most out of our media expenditures. 

Our ads continue to outscore those of our competitors, 

ensuring that consumers remember our ads, our 
brand, and the compelling reasons to do business 
with Capital One. Our ﬁVisigothsﬂ were recently 

recognized by Ad Age® magazine as one of the 
top-ten advertising icons of the decade. We also use high-pro˜le sponsorship of 
college sports to maintain the visibility of our 

brand, with events such as the Capital One 

Bowl, ESPN® Bowl Week, and the 
Capital One Mascot Challenge. In 2010 

Capital One became an of˜cial NCAA® Corporate Champion and the of˜cial bank 
and credit card of the NCAA®. We also introduced the Capital One Cup, an annual 

award for cumulative on-˜eld performance 
 in college athletics. The winning schools 
will take home the Capital One Cup 

Trophy plus $200,000 in graduate-level 
scholarships for student athletes. Capital One™s TV ads continue to lead the banking industry in brand association and enjoyment, and our ﬁVisigothsﬂ have just been named one of the top-ten 

advertising icons of the last decade.8We™re committed to helping the communities 
 where our customers and associates live and work When our communities thrive, so do our people, and so does Capital One. That™s why we™re helping to 
expand economic opportunities for our communities through a comprehensive approach we call Investing 

for Good. We™re providing millions of dollars in philanthropic grants. We™re ˜nancing multi-million-dollar 

affordable-housing developments and providing access to banking products and services. And our great people 

are generously giving their 

time and talents back to the 

communities where they live.In 2010 Capital One associates 
mentored small-business 

owners to improve their 

managerial skills and ˜nancial 

know-how, worked with 

first-time home buyers 
 to prepare them for the 

responsibilities of home 

ownership and to help them 
gain access to affordable 

and sustainable mortgages, 

and taught the basics of 

money management to 

more than 60,000 people. 

Our local bankers are out 

every day meeting with 

customers, residents, and community leaders to listen to their needs and connect them with the services 
 and resources they need. Our associates volunteer their expertise and time to scores of community 

organizations Œ 126,500 hours in 2010 alone. Over 100 of our executives serve on non-pro˜t boards.
These efforts are delivering significant results to our communities. Here are just a few examples 
from 2010:    In Washington we have provided more than $60 million in specialized ˜nancing to build or renovate 
more than 450 apartments for seniors, working families, and low-income residents.
    In New Orleans we continue to invest in the rebuilding of the city by ˜nancing housing for low- and middle-income residents. We also established a program to train residents as teacher™s aides for 
In 2010 Capital One associates taught the basics of money management to more than 60,000 people Œ students, consumers new to banking, ˜rst-time home buyers, small-business owners, and others.
9neighborhood schools and opened Capital One 
savings accounts for them, matching their savings 

dollar for dollar up to $1,000.   In Harlem, where we™re working with the Fortune 
Society and the Jonathan Rose Companies, we 
provided ˜nancing of $39 million for Castle Gardens. A mixed-use, ﬁgreenﬂ development with 113 

apartments, Castle Gardens houses formerly 

homeless individuals as well as low-income 

individuals and families. The start-up of the cyber 

cafe on the premises was funded by Capital One.Investing for Good is transforming communities 

and changing lives across our banking footprint.
We™ve emerged from the Great Recession stronger than ever We have always managed the company to be strong and resilient in both good times and bad. We transformed 
ourselves into a deposit-funded bank before the capital markets collapsed. We purposely chose the most 
resilient businesses (e.g., credit cards and deposits) and managed them tightly for resiliency. We hardwired 

recession assumptions into every consumer loan we booked. These bold strategic moves and our choice to 

build conservatism into our credit risk decisions enabled us to remain resilient and pro˜table throughout 
the ˜nancial crisis. 
For years, we built signi˜cant excess liquidity and maintained it even though we now have ample deposit funding. We conservatively managed capital, which positioned us to minimize dilution and to make key 
investments and acquisitions during the recession, such as the acquisition of Chevy Chase Bank Œ the 

leading bank in our hometown of greater Washington, D.C. We established customer practices with a focus on building a long-term customer franchise well before regulatory 
and legislative intervention, which decreased our reliance on revenue from unsustainable industry practices 

and enabled us to adapt to the CARD Act with our business model intact. And we invested in building a 

well-recognized national brand which has become a critical differentiator for us in national lending and banking.From our inception, we have been rigorously focused on de˜ning our strategic destination and then working 
backwards from that destination to build a great franchise with structural competitive advantages. The recession 

and ˜nancial reforms put our strategy, and those of all other ˜nancial institutions, to the test. Our strategy paid 

off. We have emerged well-positioned to drive pro˜table growth and continue to create lasting shareholder value. 
Capital One sees education as one of its most important long-term investments, 
and our associates are helping students of all ages learn the skills they need to 

succeed in school, through programs like READesign and Texas Girls Inc.10Although we are much smaller than our largest competitors, we have positioned ourselves with relevant 
scale in each of our businesses and the opportunity to gain share and generate exceptional returns. We 

are a leading national consumer lender with industry-leading returns. We have local-scale positions 

across our retail bank business in very attractive markets, with the ability to generate strong deposit 

growth. We also have a low-risk local commercial bank with a strategic focus on establishing primary 

banking relationships with high-quality clients. In addition to our advantaged bone structure, we have several distinctive core strengths. We have a powerful 
national brand and a massive customer base. With our Information Based Strategy and a foundation of 

franchise-building customer practices, our card business is well-positioned to grow share. We have deep 

risk management capabilities that have been honed and proven through credit cycles. We have the balance 

sheet and infrastructure to selectively drive growth through attractive acquisitions. And, we have a differentiated 

talent model that has made us a magnet for talented people. Great people have always been essential to Capital One. From the beginning, we™ve consistently focused on hiring great people and giving them a chance to be great. Over the years, our Board of Directors, our 
Executive Committee, and all of our associates have navigated seemingly insurmountable challenges and 
delivered amazing results with their intellectual horsepower. They™ve been driven by a hunger to accomplish 

great things and make a positive difference in the world. They™ve displayed tremendous heart and compassion 

for our customers, our communities, and each other. And, they™ve maintained their humility through 

good times and bad. These ﬁ4 H™sﬂ Œ horsepower, hunger, heart, and humility Œ de˜ne the people and 

the culture of Capital One.
Our great people powered us through one of the banking industry™s most challenging periods. They led 
with their values on display. Achieving excellence. Doing the right thing. Treating our customers and 

colleagues with dignity. Delivering results. Our advantaged strategic position and our great people empower 

us to continue to compete and win in each of our markets and to deliver compelling value for our customers, 

our associates, our communities, and our shareholders in 2011 and well beyond.  Richard D. Fairbank Chairman, CEO and President11FINANCIAL SUMMARY2006
200720082010 2009 
$122$116
$109$86$83Deposits ($ In Billions)2009
($0.21)
2010$0.74$6.01$7.62$3.972006200720
08Diluted Earnings Per Share2010 $0.98$2.28*$7.65$6.55$6.6820062007
20082009 Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations* 2008 data excludes goodwill impairment charge of $811 million. 12(Dollars in millions, except per share data) 
      
2010   
          2009
 Income Statement(1):Net interest income
 $    12,457   $  12,089 Non-interest income
     3,714     4,747 Total revenue
    16,171    16,836 Provision for loan losses
   
  3,907     8,083 Marketing expenses
     958     588 Restructuring expenses
    
Š   119Operating expenses     6,975     6,710 Income from continuing operations before taxes 
     4,330     1,336 Effective income tax rate
    
29.6 %  
26.2 %Income from continuing operations, net of tax 
    
3,050     987 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax 
     (307)    (103)Net income $    2,743   $  884 Preferred stock dividends
    
Š   (564)Net income available to common shareholders
 $   
2,743  $ 320Common Share Statistics: Basic EPS: 
  Net income from continuing operations
 $    6.74   $ 0.99  Net loss from discontinued operations
     (0.67)   (0.24)  Net income
 $   
6.07  $ 0.75Diluted EPS:

  Net income from continuing operations
 $    6.68   $ 0.98  Net loss from discontinued operations
     (0.67)   (0.24)  Net income
 $   
6.01   0.74Dividends $   
0.20  $ 0.53Reported Balance Sheet Statistics: Loans held for investment
 $  
125,947   $ 90,619 Total assets
   
197,503     169,646 Interest-bearing deposits
   107,162     102,370 Total deposits
    122,210     115,809 Reported Average Balances:Average loans held for investment
 $  128,526   $ 99,787 Average earning assets
   
175,730     145,293 Average total assets
   
200,114     171,598 Average stockholders™ equity
    
24,941     26,606  
Reported Credit Quality Metrics: Allowance for loan losses
 $   
5,628   $ 4,127 Allowance as a % of reported loans held for investment
   
 4.47 %  
 4.55 %Net charge-offs
 $   
6,651   $  4,568 Net charge-off rate
     5.18 %  
 4.58 %30+ day performing delinquency rate
     3.52   
 3.98Reported Performance Metrics: Revenue growth
    
(3.95) %   (6.55) %Net interest margin 
     7.09     5.30 Revenue margin 
     9.20     8.94 Risk-adjusted margin
   
  5.42     5.79 Return on average assets
    
1.52   0.58Return on average equity
    
12.23   3.71Full-time equivalent employees (in thousands)
    
25.7   25.9Managed Balance Sheet Metrics: Loans held for investment
 $  
125,947   $  136,803 Total assets
   
197,142     212,390 Average loans held for investment
   
128,622     143,514 Average total assets
   200,142     212,633 Tangible common equity (TCE) ratio
    
6.86 %  6.30 %Managed Performance Metrics: Net interest margin 
     7.09 %    6.50 % Revenue margin
   
  9.20     9.05 Risk-adjusted margin
     5.42     4.53 Net charge-off rate
     5.18     5.87 30+ day performing delinquency rate
     3.52     4.62 Efficiency ratio
(2)    
49.06   43.35 Period-end total loan accounts (in millions)
    
37.4   37.8Full-time equivalent employees (in thousands)
    
25.7   25.9  (1) 2009 amounts represent our managed results. 
(2) Excludes restructuring expenses.
13Capital One Financial CorporationBoard of DirectorsRichard D. FairbankChairman, CEO and President 
Capital One Financial Corporation
E. R. CampbellC, FFormer Chairman 

Hibernia Corporation
W. Ronald DietzA, FVice Chairman; Former President and CEO

W.M. Putnam Company
Patrick W. GrossA, C, GChairman
The Lovell Group
Ann Fritz HackettA, C, GPresident
Horizon Consulting Group
Lewis Hay IIIC, F, GChairman and CEO

NextEra Energy, Inc.
Pierre E. LeroyA, C, G Former President 

Worldwide Construction & Forestry Division 
 and Worldwide Parts Division 

Deere & Company
Mayo A. Shattuck IIIC, FChairman, CEO and President

Constellation Energy Group
Bradford H. WarnerA, FFormer Head of Premier and 
 Small Business Banking

Bank of America Corporation
 A Audit and Risk Committee
C Compensation Committee
F Finance and Trust Oversight Committee
G Governance and Nominating Committee
Capital One Financial CorporationExecutive OfficersRichard D. FairbankChairman, CEO and President 
Robert M. AlexanderChief Information Officer
Jory A. BersonChief Human Resources Officer
Lynn A. CarterPresident, Banking
 John G. Finneran, Jr.General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

 Frank G. LaPrade, IIIChief Enterprise Services Officer
 Gary L. PerlinChief Financial Officer
Peter A. SchnallChief Risk Officer
Ryan M. SchneiderPresident, Card
Sanjiv YajnikPresident, Financial Services
DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































˜



˜




˜





























































































































































˜



˜


˜






˜



˜





˜







˜



























































































































































˜
















˜






˜





















˜





















˜















˜




















˜














˜







˜















˜

































˜


















































































˜










˜



˜












˜










˜











































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































˜
















˜






˜



˜









˜




















































































































































































































˜











˜


























˜



˜

























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































˜

˜


˜


˜



























































































˜
˜

˜

˜

˜
˜



































































































































˜

˜


˜





















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































˜



˜




˜






























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































˜
















˜






˜





˜









˜


















































˜



˜







˜



˜






























































˜












˜

























˜



˜




























































































































































































































































































































































































˜













˜





˜



˜




˜


˜





































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































˜















˜





















˜



˜











































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































˜



˜




˜




˜




























































































˜














˜






˜



˜











˜





˜





˜


˜





















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































Corporate Office1680 Capital One DriveMcLean, VA 22102
(703) 720-1000
www.capitalone.comAnnual MeetingWednesday, May 11, 2011
10:00 a.m. Eastern Time
Capital One Headquarters
1680 Capital One Drive
McLean, VA 22102Principal Investor ContactJeff Norris
Managing Vice President, 
Investor Relations
Capital One Financial Corporation
1680 Capital One Drive
McLean, VA 22102
(703) 720-1000Common StockListed on New York Stock Exchange®Stock Symbol COF
Member of S&P 500®Corporate Registrar/Transfer AgentComputershare Investor Services
P.O. Box 43078
Providence, RI 02940-3078
Tel: (888) 985-2057
Outside the U.S., Canada, & 
Puerto Rico:  (781) 575-2725Hearing impaired: (781) 575-2692
Email: shareholder@computershare.com
Internet: www.computershare.comBy Overnight Courier to:Computershare Investor Services
250 Royall Street
Canton, MA 02021Independent AuditorsErnst & Young LLPCORPORATE INFORMATIONABOUT 
CAPITAL ONECapital One Financial Corporation (www.capitalone.com) is a financial holding company whose subsidiaries, 
which include Capital One, N.A. and Capital One Bank (USA), N.A., had $122.2 billion in deposits and $197.5
 billion in total assets outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Headquartered in McLean, Virginia, Capital One 

offers a broad spectrum of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses, and commercial 

clients. Capital One, N.A. has approximately 1,000 branch locations primarily in New York, New Jersey, 
Texas, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia. A Fortune 500® company, Capital One trades 
on the New York Stock Exchange® under the symbol ﬁCOFﬂ and is included in the S&P 100® index.The Company cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that 
actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information as a result of various factors 
including, but not limited to, the following: general economic and business conditions in the U.S., the U.K., Canada, or 
Capital One™s local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels, interest rates, consumer income and 
confidence, spending and savings that may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs, and deposit activity; 

an increase or decrease in credit losses (including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in 

the credit environment); financial, legal, regulatory, tax, or accounting changes or actions, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder; developments, changes, or actions relating to any litigation matter involving Capital One; increases or decreases in interest rates; Capital One™s ability to access the capital markets 
at attractive rates and terms to capitalize and fund its operations and future growth; the success of Capital One™s marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers; increases or decreases in Capital One™s aggregate loan balances or the number
 of customers and the growth rate and composition thereof, including increases or decreases resulting from factors such 
as shifting product mix, amount of actual marketing expenses Capital One incurs, and attrition of loan balances; the level 

of future repurchase or indemnification requests Capital One may receive, the actual future performance of mortgage 
loans relating to such requests, the success rates of claimants against Capital One, any developments in litigation, and 
the actual recoveries Capital One may make on any collateral relating to claims against it; the amount and rate of 
deposit growth; changes in the reputation of or expectations regarding the financial services industry or Capital One with 

respect to practices, products, or financial condition; any significant disruption in Capital One™s operations or technology 
platform; Capital One™s ability to maintain a compliance infrastructure suitable for its size and complexity; Capital One™s 
ability to control costs; the amount of, and rate of growth in, Capital One™s expenses as its business develops or changes 

or as it expands into new market areas; Capital One™s ability to execute on its strategic and operational plans; any 

significant disruption of, or loss of public confidence in, the United States Mail service affecting Capital One™s response 
rates and consumer payments; Capital One™s ability to recruit and retain experienced personnel to assist in the management and operations of new products and services; changes in the labor and employment markets; the risk that cost savings 
and any other synergies from Capital One™s acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than 
expected; disruptions from Capital One™s acquisitions negatively impacting its ability to maintain relationships with 
customers, employees, or suppliers; fraud or misconduct by Capital One™s customers, employees, or business partners; 
competition from providers of products and services that compete with Capital One™s businesses; and other risk factors 
listed from time to time in reports that Capital One files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ﬁSECﬂ), 
including, but not limited to, the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.All Capital One service marks are owned by Capital One. All rights reserved. All third-party trademarks used herein are owned by the respective entity. All rights reserved. © Copyright 2011 Capital One Services, Inc.Copies of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available without charge at www.capitalone.com. 
The most recent certifications by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits to the Form 10-K. We have also filed with the New York Stock Exchange® the most 
recent Annual CEO Certification as required by Section 303A.12 (a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.Cover photo Œ Our newly opened Dolley Madison Branch. Capital One, the only top-ten bank headquartered in our 

nation™s capital, has more branches and ATM™s than any 

of its competitors in metropolitan Washington.Capital One Financial Corporation
2010 Annual Report
1680 Capital One Drive
McLean, VA 22102
(703) 720-1000
www.capitalone.com
Capital One Financial Corporation   201
0 Annual ReportCreated and produced by  Capital One and the following:Fultz Marketing, Design and Production
Vedros and Associates, Photography
Allied Printing Services, Inc., Printing10%Cert no. SW-COC-001215
