9As 2014 again proved, there are signi˜cant threats to 
information security across all industries, including 
˜nancial services. At Capital One, protecting customer 
information is paramount and requires that we remain 
 ever vigilant in our defenses. We continue to bring in 
 top information security talent and fortify our monitoring 
and response capabilities. We™ve made signi˜cant 
investments in these areas over the years and will 
continue to invest aggressively to keep our customers 
and company safe. 
We don™t build technology for technology™s sake. We 
 are a mission-driven company focused on serving our 
customers. We measure our success by their success. 
We are delivering breakthrough solutions that are simple, 
transparent, and put customers in control. Technology is 
a powerful means to that end. 
Helping Our Customers Succeed
Many banks have lost focus on the customers they serve. Sadly, a lot of 
people feel that banks are motivated by what™s best for themselves, not 
their customers. At Capital One, we are here to help our customers succeed.
In our credit card business, that means helping people use credit wisely. We 
strive to help our customers follow four important principles: get a clear and 
fair deal; don™t borrow more than you should; pay on time; and pay down. 
Helping people use credit wisely sometimes means leaving potential pro˜ts 
behind. But at Capital One, it™s an easy choice. It™s the right thing to do for 
our customers, and it™s how we are building an enduring customer franchise.
We are committed to providing customers with loans and credit lines that ˜t 
their ability to pay. Our free payment alerts and automatic payment options 
help customers manage their money. We make policy and design choices 
in our online and mobile applications to encourage borrowers to pay more 
than the minimum and teach customers about the bene˜ts of paying down 
debt. Our clear, digital-enabled products offer ˜nancial education to 
customers at key moments in their ˜nancial lives. 
Credit Tracker
Credit Tracker is our free online/
mobile interactive tool that allows 
cardholders to track their credit 
score and access tools and 
products that can help them 
manage their ˚nances.
