9We give both time and money. In 2013, Capital One associates gave 362,000 
hours to hundreds of community programs and nonpro˜t organizations in 
 21 states. The company gave more than $48 million in grants to schools, 

colleges, and other nonpro˜t organizations. We also provided $1.37 billion in 

loans and investments to add more than 16,000 safe, affordable places to live 

and about 19,500 jobs.Within days of Hurricane Sandy, which swept through coastal 
areas of New York and New Jersey in October 2012, 

Capital One committed more than $1.5 million in grants 

to nonpro˜ts for recovery efforts, $2 million to the governor 
of New York™s small-business emergency loan fund, and 
a $3 million interest-free loan to a fund for New York City 

nonpro˜ts impacted by the storm. Since then we™ve provided 

another $400,000 in funding for local nonpro˜ts involved in 

long-term recovery efforts. We™re also helping homeowners 

confronted with storm-related ˜nancial challenges.Capital One has a long history of recruiting veterans and we™re 
committed to helping them and their families. We™ve provided 

$800,000 to support Count Me In™s Women Veteran Entrepreneur 

Corps, a program that trains and mentors women who are small-
business owners and are veterans, spouses, domestic partners, 
or daughters of veterans. Our support of the Corps augments the 
company™s 2012 commitment to contribute $4.5 million over 

three years to fund ﬁHiring 500,000 Heroes,ﬂ part of the U.S. 
Chamber of Commerce™s Hiring Our Heroes program that hosts 

job fairs and provides training for veterans and their spouses.We were thrilled to be named to The Civic 50 survey as one of the 
most community-minded companies in the S&P 500® for the second year in a row. The survey was conducted by the National Conference of 

Citizenship and the Points of Light Corporate Institute in partnership with 
Bloomberg L.P. and was published in 
Bloomberg Businessweek.A Great Place for Great Talent
Recruiting exceptional talent has always been the highest calling in our 
company. It is our number one line job. We™ve gone to extraordinary lengths 

to recruit great people and give them a chance to be great Œ as associates, For the second year in a row 
Capital One was included on 
The Civic 50 list, which 
recognizes the 50 most 
community-minded 
companies in the nation.Our associates give back to the 
communities where they live and 
work every day. Our support of 
nonpro˜ts focuses on ˜nancial 

literacy, education, affordable 
housing, and workforce and small business development, and helps 
provide people and communities with the tools they need to succeed.