Progress Integrity Expansion Goals Growth Life
Connections Hope Knowledge Ideas Relief Goa
wth Live Communities Hope Knowledge Innovat
oals Passion Progress Ideas    Security
ndship Life Security Expansion Goals Connect 
Progress Communities Relief Hope Knowledge
as Relief Innovation Goals Passion Integrity Eth
Growth Life Expansion Hope Knowledge Relief
ecurity Progress Ethics Expansion Goals Hope
riendship Growth Life                                    Pa
Knowledge Ideas Relief Innovation Passion Life
The Power of
Possible
2016 
Proxy Statement
30JAN201320005139
19FEB201614420933
19FEB201617075685
March 8, 2016
Fellow Shareholders:
U.S. Bancorp is in the business of ‚‚
making possible happen
.™™ Every single day. 67,000 committed bankers. We make
possible happen for our shareholders, our customers, our communities, and each other. It is what our brilliant red shield
represents: 
The Power of Possible
.
We make possible happen for our shareholders by delivering consistent, predictable, repeatable, industry-leading
financial results. And, by returning capital and running a trustworthy and reputable banking business, our shareholders
know that we will do it well and we will do it right. That™s why we were named one of the World™s Most Ethical
Companies
TM
 in 2015 by the Ethisphere Institute Š the largest U.S.-based bank to ever make the list. And, we returned
to Ethisphere™s list in 2016.
I am extremely proud of the remarkable financial performance that U.S. Bancorp delivered in 2015 and the value we
created for our shareholders. Remarkable, because it was a year underscored by persistent and historically low interest
rates, modest economic growth, increasing regulatory requirements, and rapidly evolving customer needs and
expectations. More than any year in recent history, 2015 required strong management focus and conviction as we
balanced decisions about operating efficiencies with opportunities for investing in future growth.
U.S. Bancorp rose to that challenge, delivering record net income and record diluted EPS for the year and returned
72 percent of our 2015 earnings back to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. In addition, our return on
average assets (ROA), return on average equity (ROE), and efficiency ratio continue to lead the industry.
At U.S Bancorp, leadership starts with our exceptional Board of Directors. I am grateful for their dedication and
guidance. They provide us with the confidence and courage to make the best decisions and they represent our
shareholders™ interests in every action we take. I am also grateful for our Managing Committee, who provide their
industry-leading expertise to every decision and turn day-to-day management into moments for everyday excellence.
I hope to see you at our 2016 annual meeting of shareholders on Tuesday, April 19, 2016, in Denver. Whether or not you
plan to attend the meeting, please vote as promptly as possible to make sure your vote is counted. Every shareholder
vote is important.
Sincerely,
Richard K. Davis
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
30JAN201320005139
24FEB201611065295
19FEB201617075063
March 8, 2016
Fellow Shareholders:
It is a great honor to serve as the Lead Director of our Board of Directors, a position I have held since January 2014. As
Lead Director, I am focused on the obligations that our Board owes to you, our shareholders. One of the Board™s most
important obligations is to oversee the work our company does to deliver excellent financial results and to return capital
to our investors, always making sure that this work is done responsibly and with the utmost integrity.
My duties as Lead Director are detailed in the attached proxy statement, and they include setting the agenda for our
Board meetings, approving information sent from management to the Board, and meeting independently with
representatives of various regulatory bodies that oversee our company and its operations. I also have regular contact
with the CEO and other members of the Managing Committee, and I advise the chairs of our Board committees
regarding the in-depth policy work those committees undertake.
We are continuously evaluating and improving our corporate governance practices, which are described in the proxy
statement. After listening carefully to the views of our shareholders, the Board was pleased to adopt a proxy access
bylaw recently with a ‚‚3/3/20/20™™ structure. This bylaw gives a shareholder or group of up to 20 shareholders that has
held at least 3% of our company™s stock for at least three years the ability to nominate up to 20% of the Board (but at
least two directors) and have those nominees appear in our proxy statement, subject to notice and other specific
requirements. We believe that the bylaw we adopted represents a balanced approach to a very complex issue and
effectively serves the interests of all of our shareholders.
Our Board maintains its commitment to excellence through rigorous annual assessments and thoughtful selection of Board
candidates who have a great diversity of skills, experiences and viewpoints. We elected three new directors in the past
year Š Warner L. Baxter, Marc N. Casper and Karen S. Lynch Š each of whom brings fresh perspectives and new areas
of expertise to our Board. We also said good-bye to Jerry W. Levin when he stepped down from the Board last May, and
we will recognize Joel W. Johnson and Patrick T. Stokes when they retire at the annual meeting. Jerry, Joel and Pat have
all been dedicated stewards of our shareholders™ interests for many years, and we are grateful for their service.
I want to emphasize to all our shareholders that the Board is committed to the highest levels of ethics and integrity.
U.S. Bancorp Chairman and CEO, Richard K. Davis, was named to the Ethisphere Institute™s 100 Most Influential People
in Business Ethics in 2015. This is a tremendous recognition, and we are proud of Richard and his personal commitment
to integrity. We are even more proud of the 67,000 men and women who embrace this culture of integrity every day and
work tirelessly to create value for shareholders, customers, and our communities Š the right way.
It is a privilege to work with my fellow directors on behalf of our shareholders, and I look forward to continuing to serve
you during 2016.
Sincerely,
Arthur D. Collins, Jr.
Lead Director
30JAN201320005139
19FEB201617080112
800 Nicollet Mall
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402
651.466.3000
NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF U.S. BANCORP
Tuesday, April 19, 2016, at 11:00 a.m., local time
Sheraton Denver Downtown Hotel
Grand Ballroom
1550 Court Place
Denver, CO 80202
1.The election of 14 directors named in the proxy statement
2.The ratification of the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as our independent auditor
for the 2016 fiscal year
3.An advisory vote to approve the compensation of our executives disclosed in this
proxy statement
4.A shareholder proposal seeking the adoption of a policy requiring that the
Chairman of the Board be an independent director
5.A shareholder proposal seeking the adoption of a policy requiring senior
executives to retain a significant percentage of shares acquired as equity
compensation
6.Any other business that may properly be considered at the meeting or any
adjournment of the meeting
You may vote at the meeting if you were a shareholder of record at the close of
business on February 23, 2016.
It is important that your shares be represented and voted at the meeting. You may
vote your shares by Internet or telephone by no later than 11:59 p.m., Eastern time,
on April 18, 2016 (or April 14, 2016, for shares held in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings
Plan), as directed in the proxy materials. If you received a printed copy of the proxy
materials, you may also complete, sign and return the enclosed proxy card or voting
instruction form by mail. Voting in any of these ways will not prevent you from
attending or voting your shares at the meeting. We encourage you to vote by
Internet or telephone to reduce mailing and handling expenses.
By Order of the Board of Directors
James L. Chosy
Secretary
March 8, 2016
Date and Time:
Place:
Items of Business:
Record Date:
Voting by Proxy:
Internet Availability of ProxyImportant Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials for the
Materials:
Shareholder Meeting to be Held on April 19, 2016: Our proxy statement and
2015 Annual Report are available at www.proxyvote.com.
17FEB201623363840
Proxy Statement Table of Contents
Table of Contents
........................................................................1
...........................................................5

 Director Selection and Qualifications
......................................................5

 2016 Nominees for Director
.............................................................6
...................................................................14

 Director Independence
...............................................................14

 Board Meetings and Committees
........................................................14

 Board Performance Evaluations and Director Education
........................................15

 Shareholder Engagement
.............................................................15

 Committee Member Qualifications
.......................................................16

 Committee Responsibilities
............................................................16

 Risk Oversight by the Board of Directors
..................................................18

 Board Leadership Structure
............................................................20

 Majority Vote Standard for Election of Directors
..............................................21

 Director Policies
....................................................................22

 Succession Planning and Management Development
..........................................22
.................................................23

 Related Person Transactions
...........................................................23

 Review of Related Person Transactions
...................................................24
.......................................................25

 Executive Compensation Highlights
......................................................26

 Philosophy and Objectives of Our Executive Compensation Program
...............................30

 Base Salary
.......................................................................30

 Annual Cash Incentive Awards
..........................................................31

 Long-Term Incentive Awards
...........................................................34

 Other Compensation Components
.......................................................36

 Decision Making and Policies
..........................................................36
...........................................................41
.................................................................42

 Summary Compensation Table
.........................................................42

 Grants of Plan-Based Awards
..........................................................44

 Outstanding Equity Awards
............................................................46

 Option Exercises and Stock Vested
......................................................48

 Pension Benefits
...................................................................48

 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
.....................................................51

 Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control
.....................................52
..................................................................56
..........................................59
.......................................61
...........................................62
.................................63
...............................65
....................................68
.......................................70
.........................................................................75

 Annual Report to Shareholders and Form 10-K
..............................................75

 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance
......................................75

 Contacting U.S. Bancorp™s Board of Directors
...............................................75

 Deadlines for Submitting Proposals and Nominating Directors for 2017 Annual Meeting
..................76

 Other Matters for Consideration
.........................................................76
Proxy Summary
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
Corporate Governance
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Compensation Committee Report
Executive Compensation
Director Compensation
Audit Committee Report and Payment of Fees to Auditor
Proposal 2 Š Ratification of Selection of Independent Auditor
Proposal 3 Š Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
Proposal 4 Š Shareholder Proposal Regarding Independent Chairman
Proposal 5 Š Shareholder Proposal Regarding Executive Stock Retention
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
Questions and Answers About the Annual Meeting and Voting
Other Matters
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
17FEB201623364112
17FEB201623364386
17FEB201623364251
Proxy Summary
Proxy Summary
This summary highlights information described in more detail elsewhere in this proxy statement. It does not
contain all of the information that you should consider, and you should read the entire proxy statement
carefully before voting. For more complete information about our company™s 2015 performance, please
review our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Date and Time:Tuesday, April 19, 2016, at 11:00 a.m. local time
Place:
Sheraton Denver Downtown Hotel
Grand Ballroom
1550 Court Place
Denver, CO 80202
Record Date:February 23, 2016
‚‚FOR™™ 
all
Page 5
nominees
‚‚FOR™™
Page 61
‚‚FOR™™
Page 62
‚‚AGAINST™™
Page 63
‚‚AGAINST™™
Page 65
The Board of Directors of U.S. Bancorp is soliciting proxies for use at the annual meeting of shareholders to
be held on April 19, 2016, and at any adjournment or postponement of the meeting. The proxy materials
were first made available to shareholders on or about March 8, 2016.
Your vote is important! Please cast your vote and play a part in the future of U.S. Bancorp.
Even if you plan to attend our annual meeting in person, please cast your vote as soon as possible by:
The voting deadline is 11:59 p.m., Eastern time, on April 18, 2016 (or April 14, 2016, for shares held in the
U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan). For details on how to cast your vote, see ‚‚Questions and Answers about the
Annual Meeting and Voting.™™
2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
Voting Matters and Board Recommendations
Board
For More
Proposal
RecommendationInformation
Proposal 1 ŠThe election of 14 directors named in the proxy statement
Proposal 2 ŠThe ratification of the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as our
independent auditor for the 2016 fiscal year
Proposal 3 ŠAn advisory vote to approve the compensation of our
executives disclosed in this proxy statement
Proposal 4 ŠA shareholder proposal seeking the adoption of a policy
requiring that the Chairman of the Board be an independent
director
Proposal 5 ŠA shareholder proposal seeking the adoption of a policy
requiring senior executives to retain a significant percentage
of shares acquired as equity compensation
How to Cast Your Vote
Internet
www.proxyvote.com
Telephone
Mail
1
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
19FEB201615084298
Proxy Summary
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,G (Chair),
572008
Ecolab Inc.
RM, E
Chairman, President and Chief Executive
542015
A, CR
Officer, Ameren Corporation
President and Chief Executive Officer,
472016
A, CR
Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc.
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive
681996
C, G, E
Officer, Medtronic, Inc.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
582006
E (Chair), RMCEO
U.S. Bancorp
President and Chief Executive Officer,
CR (Chair),
512014Puget Energy, Inc. and Puget Sound
G, E
Energy, Inc.
Founding Principal and Chief ExecutiveA (Chair),
582012
Officer, Hernandez Media Ventures
CR, E
Commissioner, San Francisco Port
682012
A, RM
Commission
652006Business Consultant
C, RM
532015President, Aetna Inc.
CR, RM
Retired Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Ohio National MutualC (Chair),
691995
Holdings, Inc. and Ohio National
G, E
Financial Services, Inc.
Medical Director, Cincinnati Health
681991
CR, C
Department
Former Chairman and Chief Executive
672002
G, RM
Officer, Schnuck Markets, Inc.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
482014
A, C
Polaris Industries Inc.
AAudit Committee
GGovernance Committee
CRCommunity Reinvestment and Public Policy CommitteeRMRisk Management Committee
CCompensation and Human Resources Committee
EExecutive Committee
Director Nominees
Director
Committee
Name
Age
Primary Occupation
Independent
Since
Memberships
Douglas M. Baker, Jr.
Warner L. Baxter
Marc N. Casper
Arthur D. Collins, Jr.
Lead Director
Richard K. Davis
Kimberly J. Harris
Roland A. Hernandez
Doreen Woo Ho
Olivia F. Kirtley
Karen S. Lynch
David B. O™Maley
O™dell M. Owens,
M.D., M.P.H.
Craig D. Schnuck
Scott W. Wine
2
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Proxy Summary
Strong Corporate Performance
Our superior performance during 2015 included the following achievements:

We remained the top performer in our peer group in the common industry performance measures of
return on average assets, return on average common equity, and efficiency ratio.

We achieved record net income of $5.9 billion.

We returned 72% of our earnings to our shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.

We continued to make strategic investments to position our company for sustainable long-term
growth.
Sound Compensation Practices
Our executive officer compensation varies from year to year because it is directly linked to achievement of
targets we have set in our financial plans. This compensation program includes many strong ‚‚pay for
performance™™ and prudent risk management features, such as:

The annual cash incentive payouts for our Chief Executive Officer (‚‚CEO™™) and other executive officers
are based on a formula directly related to the level of achievement of corporate earnings per share
and business line pretax income targets.

Three-fourths of the value of the long-term incentive award made to our CEO and other executive
officers is in the form of performance-based restricted stock units that are earned based on our
absolute (compared to target) and relative (compared to our peers) performance with respect to return
on average common equity.

We place significant emphasis on long-term equity incentive pay in order to reinforce a long-term view
of performance and enhance the alignment of the goals of our executive officers with those of our
shareholders.

We include provisions in our equity award agreements that cancel all or a portion of the vesting of the
awards under certain circumstances if it is determined that an executive demonstrated an inadequate
sensitivity to risk.

We use formal ‚‚risk scorecard™™ analyses for our senior management, which may result in downward
adjustments to annual cash incentive compensation payouts if executives demonstrate inadequate
sensitivity to risk, and we have a ‚‚clawback™™ policy that allows us to recoup annual cash incentive
payments attributable to incorrectly reported earnings.
2015 Performance and Compensation Highlights
3
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Proxy Summary
Our Board of Directors and management are dedicated to exemplary corporate governance and they
recognize that maintaining strong governance is vital to our continued success. Some of our strong
governance features include:

 Every director other than our CEO is independent, and independent directors
comprise 100% of each of the following principal Board committees: Audit, Community Reinvestment
and Public Policy, Compensation and Human Resources, and Governance.

 We have a strong independent Lead Director, with broad authority and
responsibility over Board governance and operation.

 Our Risk Management Committee oversees our risk management infrastructure
and processes.

 A shareholder or group of up to 20 shareholders that has held at least 3% of our
company™s stock for at least three years is able to nominate up to 20% of the Board (but at least two
directors) and have those nominees appear in our proxy statement, subject to notice and other
specific requirements in our bylaws.

 Our directors are elected annually by a majority of votes cast in uncontested
elections.

 The Governance Committee annually conducts rigorous Board assessments,
including individual director evaluations, which are designed to enhance performance and
accountability.

 Our independent directors meet in executive sessions, without the CEO or any
other member of management present, at the end of each regularly scheduled Board meeting, with
our Lead Director presiding at these sessions.
Governance Highlights
Director Independence:
Board Leadership:
Board Risk Oversight:
Proxy Access:
Majority Voting:
Board Evaluations:
Executive Sessions:
4
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
Our Board of Directors currently has 16 members, and directors are elected annually to one-year terms. Fourteen of our
current directors have been nominated for election by the Board to hold office until the 2017 annual meeting and the
election of their successors. Joel W. Johnson and Patrick T. Stokes are currently serving as directors but will not stand
for re-election at the 2016 annual meeting.
All of the nominees currently serve on our Board, and each of them has previously been elected by the shareholders
except for Warner L. Baxter, Marc N. Casper and Karen S. Lynch. Each of the three new directors was recommended to
the Governance Committee for consideration by a director search firm. The Board has determined that, except for
Richard K. Davis, each nominee for election as a director at the annual meeting is independent from U.S. Bancorp as
discussed later in this proxy statement under ‚‚Corporate Governance Š Director Independence.™™
Director Nominee Selection Process
The selection process for first-time director candidates includes the following steps:

identification of director candidates by the Governance Committee based upon suggestions from current directors
and executive officers and recommendations received from shareholders;

possible engagement of a director search firm to provide names and biographies of director candidates for the
Governance Committee™s consideration;

interviews of candidates by the Lead Director and other Governance Committee members;

reports to the Board by the Governance Committee on the selection process;

recommendations by the Governance Committee; and

formal nomination by the Board for inclusion in the slate of directors at the annual meeting.
Director candidates recommended by shareholders are given the same consideration as candidates suggested by a
search firm, directors or executive officers. A shareholder seeking to recommend a prospective candidate for the
Governance Committee™s consideration should submit the candidate™s name and sufficient written information about the
candidate to permit a determination by the Governance Committee whether the candidate meets the director selection
criteria set forth below and in our Corporate Governance Guidelines. Recommendations should be sent to the Chair of
the Governance Committee in care of the Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp at the address listed on page 75 of this
proxy statement.
Director Qualification Standards
We will only consider individuals as candidates for director who possess the highest personal and professional ethics,
integrity and values, and who are committed to representing the long-term interests of our shareholders. In evaluating
candidates for nomination as a director of U.S. Bancorp, the Governance Committee will also consider other criteria,
including:

current or recent experience as a chief executive officer of a public company or as a leader of another major
complex organization;

business and financial expertise;

geography;

experience as a director of a public company;

diversity of gender, ethnicity, viewpoints, background, experience and other demographic factors;

independence;

ability to work in a collegial manner with persons of different education, business and cultural backgrounds;
Director Selection and Qualifications
5
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors

possession of skills and expertise that complement the attributes of the existing directors; and

freedom from conflicts of interest.
For incumbent directors, the Governance Committee also considers the director™s attendance, participation in the work
of the Board and overall contribution to the Board. Directors must be willing to devote sufficient time to carrying out
their duties and responsibilities effectively and should be committed to serving on the Board for an extended period of
time. One or more of our directors must possess the education or experience required to qualify as an audit committee
financial expert.
Our Governance Committee continuously assesses the evolving opportunities and challenges facing our company in
order to align the Board™s composition with the company™s leadership needs. When nominating incumbent and new
directors, our Governance Committee considers, among other things:

Our Governance Committee considers the balance of business experience represented on
the Board. Many of our directors have had experience as a chief executive officer of a large publicly held or
private corporation. This background provides experience in risk assessment, corporate governance matters and
interaction between management and the board of directors. It also provides experience in general management
of large organizations, and oversight of finance, marketing, and execution of corporate strategy. Many of our
directors have current or recent experience as a director of another large publicly held or private company, which
also provides valuable experience in addressing complex governance and business issues relevant to our
company. Given the current demands placed on our industry, the Governance Committee also places a high
value on risk management expertise and leadership experience in a highly regulated environment.

Our Governance Committee regularly reviews the composition of the Board in light of the
backgrounds, industries, skills, professional experience, geographic communities, gender, race, ethnicity and
other personal qualities and attributes represented by our current members. The Governance Committee also
reviews Board self-evaluations and information with respect to the business and professional expertise
represented by current members in order to identify any specific skills and backgrounds desirable in future Board
members. The Governance Committee incorporates this broad view of diversity into its director nomination
process by taking into account all of the above factors when evaluating and recommending director nominees to
serve on the Board to ensure that the Board™s composition as a whole appropriately reflects the current and
anticipated needs of the Board and the company. In implementing this practice, the Governance Committee may
place more emphasis on attracting or retaining directors with certain specific skills or experience, such as
industry, regulatory, public policy, accounting or financial expertise, depending on the business strategy and
environment and the composition of the Board at the time.

Our Governance Committee also believes that it is important to maintain a balance of tenure on the
Board, in order to include the business, industry and governance experience of longer-serving directors; the fresh
perspectives contributed by new directors; and the value of continuity as Board composition changes. Our
Governance Committee approaches its task of recommending candidates for election or re-election with the goal
of having a mix of directors with long, medium and short tenures on the Board. Our Board has experienced a
measured rate of refreshment in recent years, including the addition of three new directors and the resignation of
one director in the past year. In accordance with the Board™s director transition policy, described below under
‚‚Corporate Governance Š Director Policies,™™ the Governance Committee did not nominate two of our current
directors to stand for re-election in 2016 because they had each reached the age of 72. The Governance
Committee believes that the recent rate of refreshment is appropriate for our Board and company at this time.
Each of our director nominees meets the qualification standards described above and in our Corporate Governance
Guidelines and has agreed to serve as a director if elected. Proxies may not be voted for more than 14 directors. If, for
any reason, any nominee becomes unable to serve before the election, the persons named as proxies will vote your
shares for a substitute nominee selected by the Board of Directors. Alternatively, the Board of Directors, at its option,
may reduce the number of directors that are nominated for election. In addition, as described below under ‚‚Corporate
2016 Nominees for Director
Business Experience:
Diversity:
Tenure:
6
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
24FEB201611062220
19FEB201614421610
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
Governance Š Majority Vote Standard for Election of Directors,™™ each of the nominees has tendered his or her
contingent resignation as a director in accordance with our Corporate Governance Guidelines to be effective if he or she
fails to receive the required vote for election to the Board and the Board accepts the tendered resignation.
Included below is certain information that the director nominees have provided as well as additional information that the
Board considered in nominating them. Board service dates listed include service as directors of U.S. Bancorp™s
predecessor companies.
 Mr. Baker, 57, is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Ecolab Inc., a provider of water and hygiene services and technologies for the food,
hospitality, industrial and energy markets. He has served as Chairman since May 2006 and
Chief Executive Officer since July 2004. He served as President of Ecolab from 2002 until
2011. He joined Ecolab in 1989 and held various leadership positions within the company
before being named President and Chief Operating Officer in 2002.

Ecolab Inc.
 since 2004 (Chairman; Safety, Health and Environment Committee)

Target Corporation
 since 2013 (Lead Director; Human Resources and Compensation
and Nominating and Governance Committees)
Director since 2008

Chief Executive Experience:
 Mr. Baker provides the valuable perspective gained from
leading a company through the current economic and corporate governance
environment as the CEO of an S&P 500 industrial company with global operations.

Chair, Governance

Corporate Governance:
 Mr. Baker™s experience leading public company boards,

Risk Management
including as Chairman of Ecolab and Lead Director of Target, provides valuable

Executive
corporate governance expertise to our Board.
 Mr. Baxter, 54, is the Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer of Ameren Corporation, a regulated electric and gas utility company serving
customers in Missouri and Illinois. He has served in these positions since 2014. Mr. Baxter
served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ameren Missouri from 2009
to 2014 and as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ameren Corporation
from 2003 to 2009. In addition, he also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of
Ameren Services from 2007 to 2009.

Ameren Corporation
 since 2014 (Chairman)

UMB Financial Corporation from 2013 to 2015
Director since 2015

Chief Executive Experience:
 Mr. Baxter™s experience as a current CEO of a
Fortune 500 company provides valuable leadership insight to the Board.

Audit

Risk Management:
 As the current President and CEO of a company in a critical
infrastructure industry, Mr. Baxter brings valuable risk management expertise to our

Community
Reinvestment and
Board of Directors.
Public Policy

Regulated Industry Expertise:
 As the current President and CEO of a company in a
highly regulated industry, Mr. Baxter provides valuable perspective on regulatory and
business challenges facing our company.

Financial Reporting and Accounting:
 Through his past experience as the Chief
Financial Officer and Controller of a large publicly-traded company, Mr. Baxter brings
extensive financial reporting and accounting expertise to our Board.
Business Experience:
Other Directorships:
Douglas M. Baker, Jr.
Skills and Qualifications:
Committees
Business Experience:
Other Directorships:
Warner L. Baxter
Skills and Qualifications:
Committees
7
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
24FEB201611052347
24FEB201611065295
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
 Mr. Casper, 47, is the President and Chief Executive Officer of
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a leader in life sciences and healthcare technologies. He has
served as President and Chief Executive Officer since 2009. He served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer from 2008 to 2009 and Executive Vice President of
Thermo Fisher and President of its Analytical Technologies business from 2006 to 2009. He
joined Thermo Electron Corporation, a predecessor to Thermo Fisher Scientific, in 2001
and held various leadership positions within that company before being named Executive
Vice President of Thermo Fisher in 2006.

Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.
 since 2009

Zimmer Holdings, Inc. from 2009 to 2013
Director since 2016

Chief Executive Experience:
 Mr. Casper™s experience as the CEO of a large life
sciences and healthcare technologies company gives him broad and valuable

Audit
leadership experience.

Community
Reinvestment and

Regulated Industry Expertise:
 Mr. Casper™s experience as the leader of a company in
Public Policy
a heavily regulated industry gives him valuable insight on regulatory challenges.
 Mr. Collins, 68, is the retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of Medtronic, Inc., a leading medical device and technology company. Mr. Collins served
as Chairman of Medtronic from 2002 until August 2008 and Chief Executive Officer from
2002 until August 2007. Mr. Collins served as President of Medtronic from 1996 to 2002
and also as Chief Operating Officer from 1994 to 2002. Since April 2009, Mr. Collins has
acted as a senior advisor for Oak Hill Capital Partners, which manages a private equity
portfolio of over $8 billion of private equity capital and over $20 billion of investment
capital.

Cargill, Incorporated
 since 2000 (Human Resources Committee Chair; Governance,
Audit and Executive Committees)

The Boeing Company
 since 2007 (Compensation Committee Chair; Governance,
Director since 1996
Organization and Nominating Committee)
Lead Director

Alcoa Inc.
 since 2010 (Audit and Compensation and Benefits Committees)

Compensation and
Human Resources

Chief Executive Experience:
 Mr. Collins™s experience as CEO of Medtronic gives him

Governance
a broad perspective on a variety of complex business and financial issues that is
valuable in his service on our Board.

Executive

Corporate Governance:
 Mr. Collins™s experience on the boards of several large public
companies has given him corporate governance expertise that is particularly valuable
in his role as Lead Director of our Board.

Regulated Industry Expertise:
 Mr. Collins gained extensive regulated industry
expertise through his service as Chairman and CEO of a medical device and
technology company.
Business Experience:
Other Directorships:
Marc N. Casper
Skills and Qualifications:
Committees
Business Experience:
Other Directorships:
Arthur D. Collins, Jr.
Committees
Skills and Qualifications:
8
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
19FEB201614420933
24FEB201611051536
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
 Mr. Davis, 58, is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
U.S. Bancorp. He has served as Chairman since December 2007 and as Chief Executive
Officer since December 2006. He also served as President from October 2004 until January
2016 and was the Chief Operating Officer of U.S. Bancorp from October 2004 until
December 2006. Mr. Davis has held management positions with our company since joining
Star Banc Corporation, one of our predecessors, as Executive Vice President in 1993.

Xcel Energy Inc.
 since 2006 (Lead Director; Finance Committee)

The Dow Chemical Company
 since 2015 (Audit Committee)

Chief Executive Experience:
 As Chairman and CEO of U.S. Bancorp, Mr. Davis
Director since 2006
brings to all Board discussions and deliberations deep knowledge of the company and
Chairman
its business.

Financial Services Industry Expertise:
 Mr. Davis brings to the Board extensive

Chair, Executive
leadership experience and industry knowledge gained as Chairman of the Financial
Services Roundtable, as Chairman of The Clearing House, and as representative for

Risk Management
the Ninth District of the Federal Reserve, where he served on its Financial Advisory
Committee.

Regulated Industry Expertise:
 Mr. Davis™s service as Lead Director of the Xcel Energy
board of directors broadens his experience in overseeing management in an industry
subject to extensive regulation.

Risk Management:
 Mr. Davis brings valuable risk management expertise to our Board
through his experience leading a large financial services company through the current
risk environment, as well as through his leadership of the Board of Directors of Xcel
Energy, a company in a critical infrastructure industry.
  Ms. Harris, 51, is the President and Chief Executive Officer of
Puget Energy, Inc., an energy services holding company, and its subsidiary Puget Sound
Energy, Inc., a utility company providing electric and natural gas service in the northwest
United States. She has served in these positions since March 2011. Ms. Harris served as
President of Puget Energy and Puget Sound Energy from July 2010 through February 2011
and as Executive Vice President and Chief Resource Officer from May 2007 until July 2010.
Ms. Harris served as Senior Vice President Regulatory Policy and Energy Efficiency of
these companies from 2005 until May 2007.

Puget Energy, Inc. and Puget Sound Energy, Inc.
 since 2011
Director since 2014

Chief Executive Experience:
 Ms. Harris™s experience as a current CEO provides
valuable leadership perspective to our Board of Directors gained by leading a large
company through the current economic and regulatory environment.

Chair, Community

Risk Management:
 As the current President and CEO of a company in a critical
Reinvestment and
Public Policy
infrastructure industry, Ms. Harris brings valuable risk management experience to our
Board of Directors.

Governance

Executive

Regulated Industry Expertise:
 Ms. Harris™s experience as the leader of a company in
a heavily regulated industry gives her valuable expertise in managing a complex
business in the context of an extensive regulatory regime.
Business Experience:
Other Directorships:
Skills and Qualifications:
Richard K. Davis
Committees
Business Experience:
Other Directorships:
Kimberly J. Harris
Skills and Qualifications:
Committees
9
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
24FEB201611074782
24FEB201611070658
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
 Mr. Hernandez, 58, is the Founding Principal and Chief Executive
Officer of Hernandez Media Ventures, a privately held company engaged in the acquisition
and management of media assets. He has served in this capacity since January 2001.
Mr. Hernandez served as Chairman of Telemundo Group, Inc., a Spanish-language
television and entertainment company, from 1998 to 2000 and as President and Chief
Executive Officer from 1995 to 2000.

MGM Resorts International
 since 2002 (Lead Director; Audit Committee Chair;
Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee)

Vail Resorts, Inc.
 since 2002 (Lead Director; Nominating and Governance Committee
Chair; Executive and Audit Committees)

Belmond Ltd.
 (formerly Orient Express Hotels Ltd.) since 2013 (Chairman)
Director since 2012

Sony Corporation from 2008 to 2013

The Ryland Group, Inc. from 2001 to 2012

Chair, Audit

Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. from 2005 to 2012

Community
Reinvestment and
Public Policy

Chief Executive Experience:
 As the Founding Principal and CEO of Hernandez Media

Executive
Ventures and the former President, CEO and Chairman of a television and
entertainment company, Mr. Hernandez has gained business expertise that is
particularly relevant to a major consumer bank such as U.S. Bank.

Financial Reporting and Accounting:
 With his extensive past and current experience
on the audit committees of the boards of four public companies, Mr. Hernandez brings
broad financial reporting and accounting expertise to our Board.

Corporate Governance:
 As the Chairman or Lead Director of three public companies,
Mr. Hernandez brings to our Board significant expertise in current corporate
governance issues and practices.
 Ms. Woo Ho, 68, is a Commissioner of the San Francisco Port
Commission, the governing board responsible for the San Francisco, California, waterfront
adjacent to San Francisco Bay. She has served on the Port Commission since May 2011
and served as President from 2012 to 2014. Ms. Woo Ho served as President and Chief
Executive Officer of United Commercial Bank, a California commercial bank, from
September 2009 to November 2009. She served as President of Community Banking at
United Commercial from January 2009 to September 2009. Ms. Woo Ho served as
Executive Vice President responsible for Enterprise Marketing, Student Loans and
Corporate Trust, at Wells Fargo & Company, a diversified financial services company, in
2008. She served as President of the Consumer Credit Group of Wells Fargo from 1998 to
2007. Ms. Woo Ho was also a member of the Wells Fargo Management Committee from
1999 to 2008.
Director since 2012

Financial Services Industry Expertise:
 Ms. Woo Ho™s over 35 years of commercial
and consumer banking experience brings valuable industry experience and knowledge

Audit
to our Board.

Risk Management

Risk Management:
 Through her experience as a senior leader in the banking industry,
Ms. Woo Ho brings experience identifying, assessing and managing risk exposures of
large, complex financial firms.
Business Experience:
Other Directorships:
Roland A. Hernandez
Committees
Skills and Qualifications:
Business Experience:
Doreen Woo Ho
Skills and Qualifications:
Committees
10
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
24FEB201611071738
19FEB201614423416
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
 Ms. Kirtley, 65, a Certified Public Accountant and Chartered Global
Management Accountant, has served as the President of the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC), the global organization for the accountancy profession which facilitates
the establishment of international auditing, ethics and education standards, since
November 2014. She served as Deputy President of IFAC from 2012 to 2014. Ms. Kirtley
has also served as a business consultant on strategic, risk and corporate governance
issues since 2000. Prior to 2000, she served as a senior manager at a predecessor to
auditing firm Ernst & Young LLP, and as Treasurer, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer at Vermont American Corporation.

Res-Care, Inc.
 since 1998 (Audit Committee Chair; Governance & Nominating
Committee)
Director since 2006

Papa Johns International, Inc.
 since 2003 (Audit Committee Chair; Compensation
Committee)

Compensation and
Human Resources

Financial Reporting and Accounting:
 Ms. Kirtley™s expertise in her field has been

Risk Management
recognized in her service as President of IFAC, as well as her past service as Chair of
(incoming Chair)
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and Chair of the AICPA
Board of Examiners.

Risk Management:
 Ms. Kirtley gained extensive audit, financial reporting, and risk
management experience as the Chief Financial Officer of an international company and
as a Certified Public Accountant at a large international accounting firm.

Corporate Governance:
 Ms. Kirtley brings to our Board a deep understanding of a
wide range of current governance issues gained by her work as a corporate
governance consultant and a faculty member of The Conference Board Directors™
Institute.
 Ms. Lynch, 53, is the President of Aetna Inc., a diversified health
care benefits company. She has served as President since 2014. She served as Executive
Vice President of Aetna™s Local and Regional business from 2013 to 2014 and Executive
Vice President of Aetna™s Specialty Products business from 2012 to 2013. Ms. Lynch
served as President of Magellan Health Services Inc., a health care management company,
from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining Magellan Health, she served in various leadership roles
at Cigna Corporation, a global health insurance service company, from 1999 to 2009.

Financial Services Industry Expertise:
 Ms. Lynch™s over 24 years of insurance
industry experience provides her with valuable financial services industry expertise.

Risk Management:
 Ms. Lynch contributes valuable risk management expertise in the
financial services industry through her experience leading a large health care benefits
Director since 2015
company.

Financial Reporting and Accounting:
 Ms. Lynch™s past experience as a CPA and

Community
public company auditor provides valuable financial reporting and accounting expertise
Reinvestment and
to our Board.
Public Policy

Risk Management
Business Experience:
Other Directorships:
Olivia F. Kirtley
Committees
Skills and Qualifications:
Business Experience:
Skills and Qualifications:
Karen S. Lynch
Committees
11
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
24FEB201611073140
24FEB201611073945
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
 Mr. O™Maley, 69, is the retired Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of Ohio National Mutual Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiary Ohio National
Financial Services, Inc., an intermediate insurance holding company that markets insurance
and financial products through its affiliates, including The Ohio National Life Insurance
Company. Mr. O™Maley served as Executive Chairman of these companies from November
2010 to May 2012 after serving as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ohio
National Mutual Holdings and Ohio National Financial Services from 1994 until November
2010. He joined Ohio National in 1992.

Chief Executive Experience:
 Mr. O™Maley™s experience as the CEO of a large,
complex company provides leadership and management expertise to our Board.

Financial Services Industry Expertise:
 As the retired Chairman, President and CEO
Director since 1995
of a large financial services company, Mr. O™Maley brings to our Board discussions
expertise in managing regulatory and business challenges facing financial services

Chair, Compensation
companies.
and Human Resources

Risk Management:
 Mr. O™Maley brings valuable risk management expertise to our

Governance
Board through his experience leading a large financial services company.

Executive
 Dr. Owens, 68, is the Medical Director for the Cincinnati Health
Department and has served in this role since November 2015. He previously served as the
President of Cincinnati State Technical and Community College, an institution of higher
education, from September 2010 until September 2015. Dr. Owens has been a member of
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland™s Cincinnati Business Advisory Council since 2012.
He has also been providing services as an independent consultant in medicine, business,
education and work-site employee benefits since 2001 and served as the President and
Chairman of the Board for Project GRAD (Graduation Really Achieves Dreams), a national
non-profit organization formed to improve inner-city education, from 2001 until 2015. From
2004 to 2010, Dr. Owens also served as Coroner of Hamilton County, Ohio.

Community Leadership:
 Through his experience in public service leadership roles and
as the President and Chairman of Project GRAD, Dr. Owens brings a unique
Director since 1991
perspective to our Board by combining business expertise and leadership with a
strong focus on community service and public policy.

Community
Reinvestment and
Public Policy

Compensation and
Human Resources
Business Experience:
Skills and Qualifications:
David B. O™Maley
Committees
Business Experience:
Skills and Qualifications:
O™dell M. Owens,
M.D., M.P.H.
Committees
12
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
24FEB201611075581
24FEB201611053346
17FEB201623363571
Proposal 1 Š Election of Directors
 Mr. Schnuck, 67, is the former Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of Schnuck Markets, Inc., a regional supermarket chain. He was elected President
of Schnuck Markets in 1984 and served as Chief Executive Officer from 1989 until January
2006. He also served as Chairman from January 1991 until December 2006. Mr. Schnuck
continued to be active in the Schnuck Markets business as Chair of its Executive
Committee from 2007 until 2014 and was named Chairman Emeritus in 2014.

Chief Executive Experience:
 Mr. Schnuck brings to our company substantial
leadership experience gained as the long-serving Chairman, CEO and Chair of the
Executive Committee of a large, regional food retailer.

Consumer Business Expertise:
 In addition to leading a large consumer goods
business, Mr. Schnuck also served for nine years on the board of governors of the
Director since 2002
Uniform Code Council, the agency that oversees his industry™s most fundamental
technologies, serving as Chairman for two terms. This work has given him additional

Governance
insight into technological innovation in retail business, which is an important focus in

Risk Management
various U.S. Bancorp business lines.
 Mr. Wine, 48, is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Polaris
Industries Inc., a worldwide manufacturer and marketer of innovative high-performance
motorized products. He has served as Chairman since 2013, and Chief Executive Officer
since 2008. Mr. Wine served as President of Fire Safety Americas, a division of United
Technologies Corporation, from 2007 to 2008. Prior to that time, Mr. Wine held various
senior leadership positions at Danaher Corporation and Honeywell International, Inc. from
1996 to 2007.

Polaris Industries Inc.
 since 2008 (Technology Committee)

Terex Corporation
 since 2011 (Compensation and Governance and Nominating
Committees)
Director since 2014

Chief Executive Experience:
 Mr. Wine™s experience as the Chairman and CEO of a
large international manufacturing company gives him broad and valuable experience in

Audit
a business focused on growing operations within domestic and overseas markets.

Compensation and
Human Resources

Consumer Business Expertise:
 Mr. Wine contributes to the Board a current
perspective on retail business gained from his leadership of a consumer-focused
company.
Business Experience:
Skills and Qualifications:
Craig D. Schnuck
Committees
Business Experience:
Other Directorships:
Scott W. Wine
Skills and Qualifications:
Committees
FOR
The Board of Directors recommends a vote ‚‚FOR™™ election of the 14 director nominees to serve until the
next annual meeting and the election of their successors.
13
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
Our Board of Directors and management are dedicated to exemplary corporate governance. Good corporate
governance is vital to our continued success. Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines to
provide a corporate governance framework for our directors and management to effectively pursue our objectives for
the benefit of our shareholders. The Board reviews and updates these guidelines and the charters of the Board
committees at least annually in response to evolving best practices and the results of annual Board and committee
evaluations. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, can be found
at www.usbank.com by clicking on ‚‚About U.S. Bank™™ and then ‚‚Corporate Governance™™ and then, as applicable,
‚‚Corporate Governance Guidelines™™ or ‚‚Code of Ethics.™™
Our Board of Directors has determined that each of the following directors, comprising all of our non-employee
directors, has no material relationship with U.S. Bancorp and is independent: Douglas M. Baker, Jr., Warner L. Baxter,
Marc N. Casper, Arthur D. Collins, Jr., Kimberly J. Harris, Roland A. Hernandez, Doreen Woo Ho, Joel W. Johnson,
Olivia F. Kirtley, Karen S. Lynch, David B. O™Maley, O™dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H., Craig D. Schnuck, Patrick T. Stokes
and Scott W. Wine. Richard K. Davis, our only other director, is not independent because he is an executive officer of
U.S. Bancorp.
Our Board has adopted a set of standards in our Corporate Governance Guidelines to assist it in assessing the
independence of each of our non-employee directors. Absent other material relationships with U.S. Bancorp, a director
of U.S. Bancorp who otherwise meets the independence qualifications of the New York Stock Exchange (the ‚‚NYSE™™)
listing standards may be deemed ‚‚independent™™ by the Board of Directors after consideration of the relationships
between U.S. Bancorp or any of our affiliates and the director or any of his or her immediate family members or other
related parties. Our Board deems the following relationships to be categorically immaterial such that they will not, by
themselves, affect an independence determination:

a relationship between the company and an organization of which the director or a member of his or her
immediate family is an executive officer if that role does not constitute that person™s principal occupation;

an ordinary banking relationship readily available from other large financial institutions;

employment by the company of a member of the director™s immediate family if that person™s annual
compensation does not exceed $120,000; and

a relationship between the company and an organization with which the director or a member of his or her
immediate family is affiliated if (a) the relationship arises in the ordinary course of both parties™ operations and
(b) the aggregate annual amount involved does not exceed $120,000.
The only business relationship between U.S. Bancorp and our directors or the directors™ related interests that was
considered by the Board when assessing the independence of our non-employee directors is the relationship between
U.S. Bancorp and Schnuck Markets, Inc., a corporation with which our director Craig D. Schnuck is affiliated. The Board
determined that this relationship, which is described later in this proxy statement under the heading ‚‚Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions Š Related Person Transactions,™™ did not impair Mr. Schnuck™s independence
because the amounts involved are immaterial to Schnuck Markets™ gross revenues and the relationship had no unique
characteristics that could influence Mr. Schnuck™s impartial judgment as a director of U.S. Bancorp.
The Board of Directors conducts its business through meetings of the Board and the following standing committees:
Audit, Governance, Compensation and Human Resources, Risk Management, Community Reinvestment and Public
Policy, and Executive. The standing committees report on their deliberations and actions at each full Board meeting.
Each of the standing committees has the authority to engage outside experts, advisors and counsel to the extent it
considers appropriate to assist the committee in its work. Each of the standing committees has adopted and operates
Director Independence
Board Meetings and Committees
14
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Corporate Governance
under a written charter. These charters can be found on our website at www.usbank.com by clicking on ‚‚About U.S.
Bank™™ and then ‚‚Corporate Governance™™ and then ‚‚Board Committees.™™
The non-employee directors meet in executive session, without the CEO or any other member of management present,
at the end of each regularly scheduled Board meeting and may meet without the CEO at any other time. The Lead
Director presides over these executive sessions. See ‚‚Board Leadership Structure.™™ In addition, the Board holds a
session between the CEO and the independent directors at the beginning of each regularly scheduled meeting, which
provides a platform for discussions outside the presence of the non-Board management attendees, as well as an
opportunity for the independent directors to go into executive session (without the CEO). During each committee
meeting, the committees have the opportunity to hold executive sessions without members of management present.
The Board of Directors held eight meetings during 2015. Each director attended at least 75% of the total meetings of
the Board and Board committees on which he or she served during the year. The average attendance rate of all
directors in 2015 was 98%.
Our Governance Committee conducts an annual assessment of the Board™s performance to determine whether it and its
committees are functioning effectively. Each director completes a questionnaire with respect to the Board and each
committee on which he or she serves. The chair of the Governance Committee and the Lead Director review all survey
responses, and the chairs of the other committees also review the survey responses for their respective committees.
The Board and the committees discuss the results of the surveys at their next meeting. In addition, the chair of the
Governance Committee annually evaluates each director™s contributions to the Board, and the directors each perform a
self-evaluation. The Governance Committee chair then has a one-on-one meeting with each director to discuss his or
her performance, and reports on those conversations to the full Governance Committee.
We believe that it is of utmost importance that our directors receive additional information and training about issues that
are critical to exercising prudent oversight of the management of our company. We have implemented a robust director
education program that begins with in-depth training covering our industry, financial reporting, and each of our lines of
business, and that continues with special education sessions throughout the year that highlight current business,
industry, regulatory and governance topics presented by internal and external experts.
For the past several years, we have maintained an annual shareholder engagement program to help us better
understand the views of our investors. We reach out to many of our largest institutional investors each fall to invite them
to speak with us and provide feedback on corporate governance and executive compensation issues. The investors
have the opportunity during these meetings to discuss their views on governance or compensation issues of particular
importance to them. Management shares the feedback received during these meetings with the Governance Committee
and Compensation and Human Resources Committee. The Lead Director (or, in the Lead Director™s discretion, the chair
of the relevant Board committee) may also be available to meet with shareholders as appropriate. Requests for such a
meeting are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Board Performance Evaluations and Director Education
Shareholder Engagement
15
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Corporate Governance
All of the Audit Committee members meet the independence and experience requirements of the NYSE and the
Securities and Exchange Commission (‚‚SEC™™). As part of those requirements, our Board of Directors has determined
that each member of the Audit Committee is independent and financially literate, and each of our audit committee
financial experts has accounting or other financial management expertise. Our Board of Directors has identified
Roland A. Hernandez, our Audit Committee Chair, and Warner L. Baxter, Marc N. Casper, Joel W. Johnson and Scott W.
Wine as audit committee financial experts as defined under the rules of the SEC. The Audit Committee charter generally
prohibits Audit Committee members from serving on more than two other public company audit committees. Currently,
no Audit Committee member exceeds this restriction.
All of the Governance Committee members and Compensation and Human Resources Committee members also meet
the independence requirements of the NYSE, including, with respect to the Compensation and Human Resources
Committee members, the NYSE™s independence requirements specific to members of compensation committees.

Assisting the Board of Directors in overseeing the quality and integrity of our financial
statements, including matters related to internal controls; our compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements; the qualifications, performance and independence of our
independent auditor; and the integrity of the financial reporting processes, both internal and
external;

appointing, compensating, retaining and overseeing the work of the independent auditor;
and

overseeing the internal audit function and approving the appointment and compensation of
the Chief Audit Executive.
Current Members
: Roland A. Hernandez (Chair), Warner L. Baxter, Marc N. Casper,
Doreen Woo Ho, Joel W. Johnson and Scott W. Wine

Discharging the Board™s responsibilities relating to corporate governance matters, including
developing and recommending to the Board a set of corporate governance principles;

overseeing succession planning for our CEO;

identifying and recommending to the Board individuals qualified to become directors;

managing the performance review process for our current directors;

reviewing and evaluating significant capital expenditures and potential mergers and
acquisitions;

overseeing the evaluation of management; and

making recommendations to the Board regarding any shareholder proposals.
Current Members
: Douglas M. Baker, Jr. (Chair), Arthur D. Collins, Jr., Kimberly J. Harris,
David B. O™Maley, Craig D. Schnuck and Patrick T. Stokes
Committee Member Qualifications
Committee Responsibilities
CommitteePrimary Responsibilities and Membership
Audit
Held 12 meetings
during 2015
Governance
Held 6 meetings
during 2015
16
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Corporate Governance

Discharging the Board™s responsibilities relating to the compensation of our executive
officers and non-employee directors;

recommending to the Board for approval executive officer incentive compensation plans
and all equity-based incentive plans;

approving other compensation plans, practices and programs applicable to the company™s
executive officers, including performance goals and objectives;

evaluating and discussing with the appropriate officers of our company the incentives for
risk-taking contained in our incentive compensation plans and programs; and

evaluating the CEO™s performance and overseeing succession planning for executive
officers other than our CEO.
Current Members
: David B. O™Maley (Chair), Arthur D. Collins, Jr., Olivia F. Kirtley,
O™dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H., and Scott W. Wine

Overseeing our overall risk management function, which governs the management of credit,
interest rate, liquidity, market, capital, operational, compliance and strategic risk;

reviewing and approving our company™s risk appetite statement; and

reviewing and approving the issuance or repurchase of equity securities and other
significant financial transactions and equity investments.
Current Members
: Patrick T. Stokes (Chair), Douglas M. Baker, Jr., Richard K. Davis,
Doreen Woo Ho, Joel W. Johnson, Olivia F. Kirtley, Karen S. Lynch and Craig D. Schnuck

Reviewing and considering our position and practices on matters of public interest and
public responsibility and similar issues involving our relationship with the community at
large;

reviewing our diversity and inclusion initiatives and progress;

reviewing our activities, performance and compliance with the Community Reinvestment
Act and fair lending regulations;

reviewing our reputation-building and brand management activities; and

reviewing our policies and procedures with respect to sustainability and corporate political
contributions and related activity.
Current Members
: Kimberly J. Harris (Chair), Warner L. Baxter, Marc N. Casper, Roland A.
Hernandez, Karen S. Lynch and O™dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H.

The Executive Committee has authority to exercise all powers of the Board of Directors
between regularly scheduled Board meetings.
Current Members
: Richard K. Davis (Chair), Arthur D. Collins, Jr. (Lead Director),
Douglas M. Baker, Jr., Kimberly J. Harris, Roland A. Hernandez, David B. O™Maley and
Patrick T. Stokes
CommitteePrimary Responsibilities and Membership
Compensation and
Human Resources
Held 6 meetings
during 2015
Risk Management
Held 6 meetings
during 2015
Community
Reinvestment and
Public Policy
Held 4 meetings
during 2015
Executive
Held 0 meetings
during 2015
17
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Corporate Governance
As part of its responsibility to oversee the management, business and strategy of our company, the Board of Directors
has approved a risk management framework that establishes governance and risk management requirements for all risk-
taking activities. This framework includes company- and business-level risk appetite statements that set boundaries for
the types and amount of risk that may be undertaken in pursuing business objectives and initiatives.
The Board of Directors oversees management™s performance relative to the risk management framework, risk appetite
statements, and other policy requirements. While management is responsible for defining the various risks facing our
company, formulating risk management policies and procedures, and managing risk exposures on a day-to-day basis,
our Board™s responsibility is to oversee our company™s risk management processes by informing itself concerning our
material risks and evaluating whether management has reasonable risk management and control processes in place to
address the material risks.
To fulfill its risk oversight responsibility, the Board:

reviews our company™s strategic objectives and financial performance in light of its risk appetite;

oversees the amounts and types of risk taken by management in executing the corporate strategy;

oversees management™s performance relative to risk management and control of the company™s risk-taking
activities;

evaluates the role of incentive compensation in managing our company™s risk appetite; and

oversees talent management and succession planning.
The Board™s risk oversight function is primarily carried out through its committees. As described in the preceding
discussion of committee responsibilities:

the 
 is primarily responsible for oversight of overall enterprise risk, including credit,
interest rate, liquidity, market, capital, operational, compliance and strategic risk;

the 
 is focused on financial statement and accounting risk and internal controls;

the 
 (the ‚‚Compensation Committee™™) oversees our
company™s compensation policies and arrangements to ensure that they do not encourage inappropriate levels of
risk-taking by management with respect to our company™s strategic goals, and to determine whether any of them
give rise to risks that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our company. More information on
the evaluation performed by the Compensation Committee is included below in ‚‚Compensation Discussion and
Analysis Š Decision Making and Policies Š Risk Considerations in Setting Compensation Plans and Programs™™;

the 
 oversees our company™s activities with respect to
reputational risk; and

the 
 reviews the responsibilities of each Board committee to ensure that all significant
risk categories are addressed by at least one committee. The Governance Committee is also responsible for
reviewing significant capital expenditures and potential merger and acquisition transactions.
In addition, the Risk Management and Audit Committees meet annually in joint session to give each committee the
opportunity to review the risk areas primarily overseen by the other. Finally, at each meeting of the full Board of
Directors, each committee gives a detailed review of the matters it discussed and conclusions it reached during its
recent meetings.
Risk Oversight by the Board of Directors
Risk Management Committee
Audit Committee
Compensation and Human Resources Committee
Community Reinvestment and Public Policy Committee
Governance Committee
18
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Corporate Governance
The Board committees carry out their responsibilities using informational reports from management with respect to all
risk areas that are relevant and important at the time. The committees must therefore be confident that an appropriate
risk monitoring structure is in place at the management level in order to be provided accurate and useful informational
reports. The management-level risk oversight structure is robust. Our company relies on comprehensive risk
management processes to identify, aggregate and measure, manage, and monitor risks. This system enables the Board
of Directors to establish a mutual understanding with management of the effectiveness of our company™s risk
management practices and capabilities, to review our company™s risk exposure and to elevate certain key risks for
discussion at the Board level. A framework exists designed to account for the introduction of emerging risks or any
increase in risks routinely taken, which would either be largely controlled by the risk limits in place or identified through
the frequent risk reporting that occurs throughout our company.
The 
 (the ‚‚ERC™™), which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and which includes the CEO
and other members of the executive management team, oversees execution against the risk management framework
and risk appetite statements. The ERC meets monthly, and more frequently when circumstances merit, to provide
executive management oversight of our risk management framework, assess appropriate levels of risk exposure and
actions that may be required for identified risks to be adequately mitigated, promote effective management of all risk
categories, and foster the establishment and maintenance of an effective risk culture. The ERC members manage large,
sophisticated groups within our company that are dedicated to controlling and monitoring risk to the levels deemed
appropriate by the Board of Directors and executive management. These individuals, together with our company™s
controller, treasurer and others, also provide the Board™s committees with the information the committees need and
request in order to carry out their oversight responsibilities.
The ERC focuses on current and emerging risks, including strategic and reputational risks, directing timely and
comprehensive actions. The following senior operating committees have also been established, each responsible for
overseeing a specified category of risk; except for the Incentive Review Committee, which reports to the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors, all of these committees report to the ERC:

the 
 provides direction and oversight of the company™s operational risk
management framework and corporate control programs, including significant operational risk events;

the 
 provides direction regarding the management of compliance risk
to the company™s business lines and risk management programs and shares institutional knowledge regarding
compliance risk management and mitigation across the company;

the 
 is responsible for the management and
implementation of the company™s program on enterprise financial crimes across business lines to ensure a
consistent control infrastructure and culture of compliance throughout the company;

the 
 ensures that products that have credit risk are supported by
sound credit practices; reviews asset quality, trends, portfolio performance statistics and loss forecasts; and
reviews and adjusts credit policies accordingly;

the 
 ensures that the policies, guidelines and practices established
to manage our financial risks, including interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operations risk and capital
adequacy, are followed;

the 
 reviews and evaluates all of our company™s incentive compensation programs
and policies for risk sensitivity and mitigation;
Executive Risk Committee
Operational Risk Committee
Compliance Risk Management Committee
Enterprise Financial Crimes Compliance Operating Committee
Executive Credit Management Committee
Asset and Liability Management Committee
Incentive Review Committee
19
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Corporate Governance

the 
 ensures that delivery of the company™s information technology
services, including information security and business continuity, are aligned with the company™s priorities and risk
appetite;

the 
 is responsible for overseeing the company™s foreign operations and
cross-border activity;

the 
 assists the CEO and the Chief Financial Officer (‚‚CFO™™) in fulfilling their
responsibilities for oversight of the accuracy and timeliness of the disclosures made by the company;

the 
 provides oversight of the company™s compliance with the Basel Standardized
Approach and other related capital regulation; and

the 
 is dedicated to the oversight of risk associated with activities and
issues that may negatively impact the reputation of the company.
The company™s Board and management-level committees are supported by a ‚‚three lines of defense™™ model for
establishing effective checks and balances. The first line of defense, the business lines, manages risks in conformity
with established limits and policy requirements. In turn, business leaders and their risk officers establish programs to
ensure conformity with these limits and policy requirements. The second line of defense, which includes the Chief Risk
Officer™s organization as well as policy and oversight activities of corporate support functions, translates risk appetite
and strategy into actionable risk limits and policies. The second line of defense monitors the conformity of the first line
of defense with limits and policies, and provides reporting and escalation of emerging risks and other concerns to senior
management and the Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors. The third line of defense, internal audit, is
responsible for providing the Audit Committee and senior management with independent assessment and assurance
regarding the effectiveness of the company™s governance, risk management, and control processes. Management
provides various risk reports to the Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors.
Our Board has carefully considered the critical issue of Board leadership. In the context of risk management, the
leadership of each of the committees that is primarily responsible for risk management is vested in an independent
committee chair. With regard to the leadership of the meetings of the full Board, our Board of Directors has adopted a
flexible policy regarding the issue of whether the positions of Chairman and CEO should be separate or combined. This
policy allows the Board to determine whether our company is best served at any particular time by having the CEO or
another director hold the position of Chairman. If the position of Chairman is not held by an independent director, the
independent directors elect a Lead Director with authority and responsibility similar to that of an independent Chairman.
Mr. Davis currently serves as Chairman and as CEO. The Board believes there are a number of important advantages to
combining the positions of Chairman and CEO at this time. Critically, our current structure most effectively utilizes
Mr. Davis™s extensive experience and knowledge regarding our company and provides for the most efficient leadership
of our Board and company. Mr. Davis, who has more than 21 years of experience at U.S. Bancorp, including 11 years
as President and 9 years as CEO, has the knowledge, expertise and experience to understand and clearly articulate to
the Board the opportunities and risks facing U.S. Bancorp and to lead discussions on important matters affecting our
business. The Board believes that combining the CEO and Chairman positions creates a firm link between management
and the Board and helps the Board respond quickly and effectively to the many business, market and regulatory
challenges resulting from the rapidly changing financial services industry. Mr. Davis™s service as Chairman also provides
clarity of leadership for our company and more effectively allows our company to present its vision and strategy with a
unified voice. The Board has also considered the views of our shareholders on this issue Š expressed in conversations
with some of our largest investors in our annual shareholder engagement program and in the voting results on the
shareholder proposal made the last three years to adopt a policy that the Chairman be an independent director Š
which support the Board™s determination that our current leadership structure is appropriate for our company at this
time.
Enterprise IT Governance Committee
International Risk Oversight Committee
Disclosure Committee
Basel Steering Committee
Reputation Risk Oversight Committee
Board Leadership Structure
20
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Corporate Governance
Role of Lead Director
The powers and duties of the Chairman and Lead Director differ primarily in that the Chairman presides over the normal
business portion of the meetings of the Board. Since the Lead Director may call for an executive session of independent
directors at any time, and has the sole authority to approve meeting agendas and the information provided to directors
for Board meetings, the Board does not believe that the fact that he does not preside over the normal Board meeting
business sessions limits the ability of the Board to have open exchanges of views, or to address any issues the Board
chooses, independently of the Chairman. In addition, much of the in-depth work of the Board is conducted through its
committees, none of which, other than the Executive Committee, is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Lead Director is elected by the independent directors upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee.
Arthur D. Collins, Jr. has served as Lead Director since January 2014. Mr. Collins is actively engaged as Lead Director
and works closely with Mr. Davis on Board matters. The Lead Director is elected annually with the expectation that he
or she will generally serve three, and may serve up to five, consecutive terms.
Our bylaws provide that in uncontested elections a nominee for director will be elected to the Board if the number of
votes cast ‚‚FOR™™ the nominee™s election exceeds the number of votes cast ‚‚AGAINST™™ that nominee™s election. The
voting standard for directors in a contested election is a plurality of the votes cast at the meeting.
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that director nominees must submit a contingent resignation in writing to
the Governance Committee, which becomes effective if the director fails to receive a sufficient number of votes for
Although the Board believes that it is more effective to have one person serve as the Chairman and CEO at this
time, it also recognizes the importance of strong independent leadership on the Board. Accordingly, it has
reaffirmed the strong role of the Lead Director, who has the following responsibilities and authority:

lead executive sessions of the Board™s independent or non-management directors, and preside at any session
of the Board where the Chairman is not present;

act as a regular communication channel between our independent directors and the CEO;

approve the Board meeting agendas;

approve Board meeting schedules to ensure there is sufficient time for discussion of all agenda items;

approve information sent from management to the Board;

at the request of the CEO or the Board, be the representative of the independent directors in discussions with
our major shareholders regarding their concerns and expectations;

may call special Board meetings or special meetings of the independent directors;

approve, on behalf of the Board, the retention of consultants who report directly to the Board;

assist the Board and company officers in assuring compliance with and implementation of our Corporate
Governance Guidelines;

advise the independent Board committee chairs in fulfilling their designated roles and responsibilities to the
Board;

review shareholder communications addressed to the full Board or to the Lead Director;

interview all Board candidates and make recommendations to the Governance Committee and the Board; and

communicate, as appropriate, with the company™s regulators.
Majority Vote Standard for Election of Directors
21
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Corporate Governance
re-election at the annual meeting of shareholders and the Board accepts the resignation. The Board will nominate for
election or re-election as director only candidates who have tendered such a contingent resignation.
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines further provide that if an incumbent director fails to receive the required vote for
re-election, our Governance Committee will act within 90 days after certification of the shareholder vote to determine
whether to accept the director™s resignation, and will submit a recommendation for prompt consideration by the Board.
The Board expects the director whose resignation is under consideration to abstain from participating in any decision
regarding his or her resignation. The Governance Committee and the Board may consider any factors they deem
relevant in deciding whether to accept a director™s resignation.
If each member of the Governance Committee fails to receive the required vote in favor of his or her election in the
same election, then those independent directors who did receive the required vote will appoint a committee amongst
themselves to consider the resignations and recommend to the Board whether to accept them. However, if the only
directors who received the required vote in the same election constitute three or fewer directors, all directors may
participate in the decision regarding whether to accept the resignations.
Each director nominee named in this proxy statement has tendered an irrevocable, contingent resignation as a director
in accordance with our Corporate Governance Guidelines, which resignation will become effective if he or she fails to
receive the required vote for election at the annual meeting and the Board accepts his or her resignation.
Policy Regarding Service on Other Boards
Our Board of Directors has established a policy that restricts our directors from serving on the boards of directors of
more than three public companies in addition to their service on our Board of Directors unless the Board determines
that such service will not impair their service on our Board. Currently, no director exceeds this restriction.
Policy Regarding Attendance at Annual Meetings
Board members are expected to attend all annual meetings of shareholders in person. All of our then-current directors
attended last year™s annual meeting of shareholders.
Director Transition Policy
Our Board annually reviews each director™s contributions to the Board and considers each director™s effectiveness and
the composition of the Board during the annual review process. The Board believes that any director™s continued service
on the Board should also be evaluated for continued appropriateness in each of the following circumstances: the
director has a change in employment or other major responsibilities, an employee director ceases to be a company
employee, and the director reaches the age of 72.
A primary responsibility of the Board is planning for succession with respect to the positions of Chairman of the Board
and CEO, as well as overseeing succession planning for other senior management positions. The Board™s process
targets the building of enhanced management depth, considers continuity and stability within our company, and
responds to our company™s evolving needs and changing circumstances. Toward that goal, the executive talent
development and succession planning process is integrated into the Board™s annual activities.
The Board works with the Governance Committee to evaluate a number of potential internal and external candidates as
successors to the CEO, and considers emergency, temporary as well as long-term succession. The Compensation
Committee is responsible for reviewing succession planning for executive officer positions other than the CEO. The CEO
makes available to the Board his or her recommendations and evaluations of potential successors, along with a review
of any development plans recommended for those individuals.
Director Policies
Succession Planning and Management Development
22
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
Lending Transactions
During 2015, U.S. Bancorp and our banking and investment subsidiaries engaged in transactions in the ordinary course
of business with some of our directors, executive officers and the persons that we know beneficially owned more than
5% of our common stock on December 31, 2015, and the entities with which they are associated. All loans and loan
commitments and any transactions involving other financial products and services in connection with these transactions
were made in the ordinary course of business, on substantially the same terms, including current interest rates and
collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with others not related to our banking and
investment subsidiaries and did not involve more than the normal risk of collectibility or present other unfavorable
features.
Transactions with Entities Affiliated with Directors
During 2015, U.S. Bank operated 36 branches and 70 ATMs in grocery stores owned by Schnuck Markets, Inc., of
which Craig D. Schnuck, one of our directors, beneficially owns approximately 13% of the outstanding capital stock.
Mr. Schnuck™s sister, Nancy A. Diemer, and his four brothers, Scott C. Schnuck, Todd R. Schnuck, Mark J. Schnuck and
Terry E. Schnuck, each beneficially own approximately 13% of the outstanding capital stock of Schnuck Markets as
well. In addition, each of Mr. Schnuck™s brothers is a director of, and holds the following officer positions with, Schnuck
Markets: Scott C. Schnuck, Chairman of the Executive Committee; Todd R. Schnuck, Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer; Mark J. Schnuck, Vice President; and Terry E. Schnuck, Assistant Secretary. Rent and fee payments by
U.S. Bank to Schnuck Markets were approximately $2.9 million in 2015. The consolidated gross revenues of Schnuck
Markets in 2015 were approximately $2.7 billion. These transactions were conducted at arm™s length in the ordinary
course of business of each party to the transaction. As discussed above under the heading ‚‚Corporate Governance Š
Director Independence,™™ the Board of Directors has determined that this relationship is immaterial to Mr. Schnuck, and
that Mr. Schnuck is an independent director.
Transactions with Entities Affiliated with Executive Officers
During 2015, we paid Little & Co., a design and branding agency, approximately $2.8 million in professional fees for
brand strategy and design work. The President of Little & Co. is the brother of Andrew Cecere, our newly appointed
President and Chief Operating Officer. The selection of Little & Co. was made based on our regular sourcing and
competitive bidding process, without the involvement of Andrew Cecere. The fees we paid to Little & Co. were
negotiated on an arm™s length basis and were not material to our 2015 marketing and advertising expense. The branding
work will conclude in 2016, and we do not intend to continue the engagement or to have Little & Co. bid for future
work, in order to avoid the appearance of any conflict of interest with Mr. Cecere.
During 2015, we paid the law firm of Taft Stettinius & Hollister LLP (‚‚Taft™™) approximately $700,000 in legal fees.
Gregory P. Rogers, a partner at Taft, is the spouse of Kathleen A. Rogers, our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer.
U.S. Bancorp™s relationship with Taft dates back more than 20 years and significantly preceded Ms. Rogers™s promotion
to Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer in early 2015. Ms. Rogers does not direct the company™s legal work in her
role as CFO, and Mr. Rogers will have no direct involvement in services provided to us. The fees we paid to Taft in 2015
were negotiated on an arm™s length basis, are an immaterial proportion of our annual legal expense, and were not
material to Taft™s annual revenues.
Transactions with 5% Shareholders
As shown below under the heading ‚‚Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,™™ each of
BlackRock, Inc. and FMR LLC has reported that it, together with certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, is the beneficial
owner of more than 5% of our common stock. An affiliate of BlackRock provided us certain advisory services in 2015
related to the mortgage servicing rights valuation framework used by our home mortgage business line and was paid
$607,000 for those services. In November 2015, we entered into an agreement under which an affiliate of FMR will
provide us certain ministerial record-keeping and administrative services on behalf of our employees and directors who
participate in our stock incentive plans. There were no fees related to this relationship in 2015 and fees for 2016 are
currently expected to be less than $1 million. Each of these relationships was negotiated and conducted at arm™s length
in the ordinary course of business of each party to the relationship.
Related Person Transactions
23
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
The Board has adopted a written Related Person Transactions Policy for the review, evaluation and approval or
ratification of transactions between our company and its related persons. ‚‚Related persons™™ under this policy include
our directors, director nominees, executive officers, holders of more than 5% of our common stock, and their respective
immediate family members. Their ‚‚immediate family members™™ include children, stepchildren, parents, stepparents,
spouses, siblings, mothers- and fathers-in-law, sons- and daughters-in-law, brothers- and sisters-in-law, and any person
(other than a tenant or employee) sharing the person™s household.
Except as described below, the policy requires the Governance Committee of the Board to review and evaluate and
either approve or disapprove all transactions or series of transactions in which:

the amount involved will, or may be expected to, exceed $120,000 in any fiscal year;

our company is or will be a participant; and

a related person has or will have a direct or indirect interest.
The Board, however, has determined that the Governance Committee does not need to review or approve certain
transactions even if the amount involved will exceed $120,000, including the following transactions:

lending and other financial services transactions or relationships that are in the ordinary course of business and
non-preferential, and comply with applicable laws;

transactions in which the related person™s interest derives solely from his or her services as a director of, and/or
his or her ownership of less than ten percent of the equity interest (other than a general partner interest) in,
another corporation or organization that is a party to the transaction;

transactions in which the related person™s interest derives solely from his or her ownership of a class of equity
securities of our company and all holders of that class of equity securities received the same benefit on a pro
rata basis;

transactions where the rates or charges involved are determined by competitive bids, or that involve the rendering
of services as a common or contract carrier, or public utility, at rates or charges fixed in conformity with law or
governmental authority; and

employment and compensation arrangements for any executive officer and compensation arrangements for any
director, provided that such arrangements have been approved by the Compensation Committee.
When considering whether to approve or ratify a transaction, the Governance Committee will consider facts and
circumstances that it deems relevant to its determination, including:

the nature and extent of the related person™s interest in the transaction;

whether the transaction is on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable
transactions with persons not affiliated with our company;

the materiality of the transaction to each party;

whether our company™s Code of Ethics could be implicated, including whether the transaction would create a
conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest;

whether the transaction is in the best interest of our company; and

in the case of a non-employee director, whether the transaction would impair his or her independence.
No director is allowed to participate in the deliberations or vote on the approval or ratification of a transaction if that
director is a related person with respect to the transaction under review. On an annual basis the Governance Committee
assesses all ongoing relationships with related persons to confirm that the transactions are still appropriate.
Review of Related Person Transactions
24
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
This section explains how we compensated the individuals who served as our CEO or CFO for all or a part of 2015 and
each of our three other most highly compensated executive officers for 2015 (our named executive officers, or ‚‚NEOs™™):

, who served as our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer during 2015; Mr. Davis™s
title changed to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on January 18, 2016, in connection with Mr. Cecere™s
promotion to President;

, who served as our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer until January 20, 2015, when he
was promoted to Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer; Mr. Cecere was promoted again on January 18,
2016, and is currently our President and Chief Operating Officer;

, who has served as our Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer since January 20, 2015;

, who serves as a Vice Chairman, Wholesale Banking;

, who serves as a Vice Chairman and is our Chief Risk Officer; and

, who serves as Vice Chairman, Technology and Operations Services.
.......................................................26
...............................30
........................................................................30
...........................................................31

 How We Determine Our NEOs™ Annual Cash Incentive Awards
...................................31

 Setting the Target Award Amounts
.......................................................31

 Calculating the Bonus Funding Percentage
.................................................31

 Factoring in Individual Performance and Risk Sensitivity
........................................33

 Recoupment of Annual Cash Incentive Payouts
..............................................34
...............................................................34

 Establishing the Structure and Value of the Equity Awards
......................................34

 Selecting the Performance Metrics for the PRSU Awards
.......................................35

 Determining the Percentage of Target PRSUs Earned
..........................................35
..........................................................36

 Executive Benefits and Perquisites
.......................................................36

 Change-in-Control Agreements
.........................................................36
..............................................................36

 Who Is Involved in Making Compensation Decisions
..........................................36

 What Information Is Considered When Determining Compensation
.................................37

 Peer Group Composition
.............................................................38

 Risk Considerations in Setting Compensation Plans and Programs
................................39

 Stock Ownership Requirements
.........................................................40

 Deductibility of Performance-Based Compensation
...........................................41
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
Kathleen A. Rogers
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
Reference Guide
Executive Compensation Highlights
Philosophy and Objectives of Our Executive Compensation Program
Base Salary
Annual Cash Incentive Awards
Long-Term Incentive Awards
Other Compensation Components
Decision Making and Policies
25
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
The following table sets forth the components of our NEOs™ total direct compensation and results for 2015:
Salary levels are intended to rewardAll of the NEOs received raises, which
experience and demonstrated skills andwere based on market forces and
competencies relative to the marketindividual performance and
value of the position
responsibility

Target award amounts are set as aThe cash incentive awards paid to the
percentage of each NEO™s baseNEOs for 2015 performance ranged
salary
from 78.8% to 86.8% of their individual
target award amounts

Earnings per share (‚‚EPS™™) is the
performance metric for the corporate
component (weighted 35%)

Pretax income is the performanceThese payout levels were primarily
metric for the business line
based on corporate EPS results of
component (weighted 65%)
96.9% of target performance and
business line pretax income results that

Individual performance and sensitivity
ranged from 15.4% to 121.2% of target
to risk during the year are taken into
performance
account when determining final
payout amounts
Based on absolute and relative ROE
 (75% of total annual grant value)results in 2015, the NEOs earned
104.3% of the target number of

Return on average common equity
performance-based restricted stock
(‚‚ROE™™), measured on both an
units (‚‚PRSUs™™) granted to them in
absolute and relative basis, is the
early 2015
performance metric

One-year performance period
provides the executives with a clear
line of sight, while a four-year vesting
period fosters a long-term
perspective

Depending on performance, 0% to
125% of the target number of units
may be earned
 (25% of total annual
grant value)

Value of option depends on our stock
price

Four-year ratable vesting
Executive Compensation Highlights
Base Salary
Annual Cash
Incentive
Compensation
Long-Term
Performance-Based Restricted Stock
Incentive
Units
Compensation
Stock Options
26
At Risk
Fixed
Component
How It Works
2015 Actions and Results
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
26FEB201601022877
17FEB201623363709
17FEB201623363294
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
A high percentage of our NEOs™ total direct compensation is dependent on our company™s financial
performance, both in the year in which the compensation is granted and in the long term. This structure
provides our NEOs with incentives that are in line with the interests of our other shareholders. The charts
below show the percentage of our NEOs™ 2015 total direct compensation, as reported in the Summary
Compensation Table, that is dependent on our company™s financial performance (numbers do not add up to
100% because of rounding):
Other NEO
Pay Mix
(average)
CEO Pay
Mix
A
T
R
I
S
K
F
I
X
E
D
F
I
X
E
D
A
T
R
I
S
K
Performance-
Based 
Restricted 
Stock Unit
50%
Stock 
Options
17%
Base
Salary
11%
Annual
Cash
Incentive
22%
Base
Salary
16%
Annual
Cash
Incentive
18%
Performance-
Based 
Restricted 
Stock Units
49%
Stock 
Options
16%
Strong Corporate and Financial Performance
The Compensation Committee believes that the company™s compensation structure has been effective at
encouraging the achievement of superior financial and operating results relative to our peers in an uncertain
economic environment, while maintaining reasonable risk tolerances.
Our financial performance fell short of goals during 2015, a year in which the financial services industry again
faced the challenges of economic uncertainty, continued very low interest rates and increased regulation.
Despite this environment, U.S. Bancorp outperformed its peers in most financial and operational measures.
Our company™s superior performance during 2015 included the following achievements:

U.S. Bancorp has consistently been the top performer in our peer group in the common industry
performance measures of return on average assets, return on average common equity, and efficiency
ratio, and was again the leader in these measures in 2015.
1
14.0%
12.7%
11.3%
10.4%
9.5%
8.6%
8.3%
8.5%
6.3%
6.2%
USBPeer 1Peer 2Peer 3Peer 4Peer 5Peer 7
Peer 6Peer 8Peer 9
1.44%
1.32%
1.22%
1.16%
1.06%
1.02%
0.97%
0.99%
0.87%
0.74%
USBPeer 1Peer 2Peer 3Peer 4Peer 5Peer 7
Peer 6Peer 8Peer 9
High Percentage of At-Risk Compensation
#1 in Return on Average Assets
#1 in Return on Average Common Equity
27
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
17FEB201623364524
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Source: Company reports. The peer group companies
included in these tables are listed under the heading
‚‚Peer Group Composition™™ on page 38 of this proxy
statement.
Efficiency ratio computed as noninterest expense
divided by the sum of net interest income on a taxable-
equivalent basis and noninterest income excluding
securities gains (losses).
53.8%
57.7%
57.7%
61.5%
62.5%
63.3%
66.5%
64.2%
66.7%
69.5%
USBPeer 1Peer 2Peer 3Peer 4Peer 5Peer 7
Peer 6Peer 8Peer 9

2.8%12.7%12.1%6.6%
Source: FactSet and Bloomberg as
of December 31, 2015. Reflects
0.5%14.8%9.1%

1.1%
annualized returns.
1.4%15.1%12.6%7.3%

U.S. Bancorp achieved record net income of $5.9 billion in 2015.

Our consistent superior financial performance over time has increased long-term value for our shareholders.

We continued to grow market share in many of our business lines, in part because our financial performance
allowed us to invest in our businesses during the economic downturn and persistent slow recovery
experienced globally since 2008.

We continued to enjoy debt ratings that are among the highest in our industry, reflecting the ratings agencies™
recognition of our strong, consistent financial performance, the quality of our balance sheet, our future earnings
capacity and our strong management team.
#1 in Efficiency Ratio
2
1.
2.
Total Shareholder Return
3
1-Year3-Year5-Year10-Year
U.S. Bancorp
3.
KBW Bank
Index (BKX)
S&P 500 Index
28
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
17FEB201623363432
17FEB201623363571
17FEB201623363432
17FEB201623363432
17FEB201623363432
17FEB201623363571
17FEB201623363432
17FEB201623363571
17FEB201623363432
17FEB201623363432
17FEB201623363571
17FEB201623363432
17FEB201623363571
17FEB201623363571
17FEB201623363571
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Sound Compensation Practices
Our executive compensation program includes many strong governance features, including the following:
What We Don™t Do
What We Do
We do not allow executives to hedge or
We pay for performance:
pledge their company stock
Œ
Our annual cash incentive awards use a
We do not have single-trigger
formula based on achievement of
accelerated vesting of equity awards or
corporate and business line financial
payment of cash benefits in the event of
targets
either a change in control or termination
Œ
PRSU awards (which make up 75% of the
of employment
value of equity awards granted to our
We do not allow repricing of stock
executive officers) are earned based on
options
absolute and relative corporate
performance
We do not provide tax gross-ups on our
limited perquisites
We place primary emphasis on
long-term equity incentive
We do not grant stock options with
compensation
exercise prices below 100% of market
value
We discourage excessive risk taking and
adjust incentive compensation for any
We do not pay dividends on unearned
member of senior management who
PRSUs
demonstrates inadequate sensitivity to
We do not include the value of equity
risk
awards in pension or severance plan
We have a ‚‚clawback™™ policy that allows
calculations
us to recoup annual cash incentive
We have adopted a policy stating that
payouts attributable to incorrectly
we will enter into no new agreements
reported earnings
with executives that provide for excise
We have meaningful stock ownership
tax gross-up payments upon termination
requirements, and executive officers
of employment
must hold 100% of the after-tax value of
equity awards until the applicable
ownership level is met
We review tally sheets when making
executive compensation decisions
The Compensation Committee retains
an independent compensation
consultant that provides no other
services to our company
29
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Compensation Program Goals
The Compensation Committee has designed the executive compensation program to attract, motivate, reward and retain
the management talent required to achieve our corporate objectives and increase shareholder value, while at the same
time making the most efficient use of our resources and strongly emphasizing pay for performance.
The Compensation Committee achieves these objectives through a compensation package that:

links a significant portion of total compensation to corporate, business line and individual performance, which we
believe will create long-term shareholder value;

provides total compensation that is market competitive, permitting us to hire and retain high-caliber individuals at
all levels of management;

emphasizes stock-based compensation, encouraging our executive officers to think and act as long-term
shareholders;

subjects a significant percentage of executive officer total compensation to multi-year vesting in order to enhance
executive retention and encourage a long-term view of corporate achievement; and

encourages an appropriate sensitivity to risk on the part of senior management, which protects long-term
shareholder interests.
Pay for Performance
U.S. Bancorp operates in a highly complex business environment, where it competes with many well-established
financial institutions. Our long-term business objective is to maximize shareholder value by increasing net income and
earnings per share without exposing the company to undue risk. If we are successful in achieving this objective, the
Compensation Committee believes the results will benefit our shareholders.
Accordingly, our executive compensation program is designed to reward our executives for achieving annual and
long-term financial results that further our long-term business objective. The annual cash incentive plan rewards
performance relative to corporate and business line financial plans established at the beginning of the fiscal year, and
the PRSUs granted under the stock incentive plan are earned based on achievement of ROE targets that directly
measure the return generated by the company on its shareholders™ investment. At the same time, the Compensation
Committee carefully weighs the risks inherent in these programs against the goals of the programs and the company™s
risk appetite. Additional discussion of the risk oversight undertaken by the Compensation Committee can be found
below under ‚‚Decision Making and Policies Š Risk Considerations in Setting Compensation Plans and Programs.™™
The Compensation Committee considers the salary of executive officers relative to those executives™ peers in our
industry and will make market-based adjustments as it deems appropriate. Salaries can also be adjusted to reflect
experience and tenure in a position, increased scope of responsibilities and individual performance.
2015 Actions and Results: After considering market alignment, performance factors and changes in responsibility levels,
the Compensation Committee increased the base salaries of all of the NEOs from their 2014 amounts. For those NEOs
who were incumbent executive officers (i.e., all of the NEOs except Ms. Rogers, who was employed by our company but
was not an executive officer before her appointment as Chief Financial Officer), the increases ranged from 3.4% to
13.6%. Mr. Parker received the most significant raise on a percentage basis so that his base salary more fully reflects the
increased responsibilities of the Chief Risk Officer position to which he was appointed in December 2013.
Philosophy and Objectives of Our Executive Compensation Program
Base Salary
30
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
23FEB201623452395
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
How We Determine Our NEOs™ Annual Cash Incentive Awards
All management-level employees, including the NEOs and our other executive officers, have the opportunity to earn
annual cash incentive awards that reflect their responsibility levels and reward achievement of corporate, business line,
and individual goals. These awards are granted under our 2006 Executive Incentive Plan (the ‚‚EIP™™).
The formula for calculating each NEO™s 
 consists of three elements:
Each NEO™s 
, which is set each year by the Compensation Committee as a percentage of his
or her base salary
The 
 applicable to each NEO, which includes a combination of corporate and business
line performance metrics
The Compensation Committee™s assessment of each NEO™s 
, which
can increase or decrease the value of the Bonus Funding Percentage applied to each NEO™s Target Award Amount
X
=
Target Award
Amount
Annual Cash 
Incentive Payout
Bonus Funding 
Percentage
Individual 
Performance and 
Risk Sensitivity
+/-
Setting the Target Award Amounts
The target annual cash incentive award for each executive officer is based on the officer™s level of responsibility within
the organization as well as market-based considerations.
2015 Actions and Results: In January 2015, the following Target Award Amounts were set for the NEOs:
225%
150%
125%
For the NEOs who were incumbent executive officers, these levels were not changed from their 2014 Target Award
Amounts.
Calculating the Bonus Funding Percentage
Each year, the Compensation Committee targets an aggregate amount of annual cash incentive awards to be granted to
all management-level employees in each business line. The actual amount paid out can range from 0% to 200% of the
target amount (the Bonus Funding Percentage) based on the company™s and the business line™s performance against
EPS and pretax income targets included in the annual financial plan. The Board establishes these financial targets at the
beginning of the fiscal year with the intent that they be challenging yet reasonably achievable goals.
The Bonus Funding Percentage for a revenue-producing business line is based on the company™s EPS performance
compared to the target amount in the annual financial plan (weighted 35%) and that business line™s pretax income
performance compared to the target amount in the annual financial plan (weighted 65%); for a business line in a support
function, the 65% of the Bonus Funding Percentage assigned to pretax income performance is calculated based on the
weighted average results of all of the revenue-producing business lines in the same group. The calculation is described
in detail below. Adjustments may be made to EPS or pretax income results to mitigate anomalies so that the results
more realistically reflect the company™s or business line™s performance.
Annual Cash Incentive Awards
Annual Cash Incentive Payout
1.
Target Award Amount
2.Bonus Funding Percentage
3.
Individual Performance and Risk Sensitivity
NEO
Target Award Amount (as percentage of base salary)
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
Kathleen A. Rogers
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
31
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
26FEB201601424397
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
The Compensation Committee believes that EPS and business line pretax income are appropriate performance metrics
for the executive officers™ annual cash incentive awards for the following reasons:

EPS is an important indicator of profitability that aligns the interests of the executive officers with those of
shareholders;

EPS captures elements of corporate performance that are beyond those of the individual operating business
lines, such as corporate funding policies and the management and use of capital;

the business line pretax income targets are the fundamental drivers of the company™s revenues and income
before taxes;

the EPS and pretax income targets are aligned with annual financial plan targets, which the Board and
management have assessed for achievability; accordingly, the targets provide incentives to take appropriate
amounts of risk to achieve those goals; and

the Compensation Committee values the clear alignment of incentives for executive officers and other
management-level employees resulting from shared performance metrics.
The Bonus Funding Percentage for each business line is calculated as follows:

The percentages by which actual corporate EPS differs from the EPS target and actual business line pretax
income differs from target pretax income are each multiplied by a leverage factor of four to magnify the positive
or negative variation of actual results. For example, if the actual corporate EPS were 5% greater than the EPS
target, the formula would multiply 5% by four to arrive at 20%. The 20% would then be added to 100% to get
the 
 of 120%. If the actual business line pretax income were 3% below target, the
formula would multiply 3% by four to arrive at 12%. The 12% would then be subtracted from 100%, resulting in
a 
 of 88%. Neither the EPS Bonus Funding Result nor the Pretax Income
Bonus Funding Result may be less than 0% or greater than 200%.

The EPS Bonus Funding Result is multiplied by 35% to yield the 
, and the Pretax Income
Bonus Funding Result is multiplied by 65% to yield the 
.

The Corporate Component is then added to the Business Line Component to arrive at the 
 for that business line. For example, a 120% EPS Bonus Funding Result weighted 35% and an 88%
Pretax Income Bonus Funding Result weighted 65% results in a Bonus Funding Percentage of 99.2%.
100%
100%
Business Line
Component
Bonus Funding
Percentage
% difference
between
actual and
target EPS
leverage
factor
of 4
EPS Bonus
Funding Result
35%
Corporate
Component
x
=
+
% difference
between
actual and
target pretax
income
leverage
factor
of 4
Pretax Income
Bonus Funding
Result
65%
=
+/-
+/-
x
x
=
=
x
=
The Bonus Funding Percentage used for most annual cash incentive plan participants in corporate-wide support
functions that do not produce revenue Š the 
 Š is calculated slightly differently,
with 35% based on the EPS Bonus Funding Result and 65% based on the weighted average Pretax Income Bonus
Funding Results of all of the company™s revenue-producing business lines.
2015 Actions and Results: Interest rates remained lower than planned, which contributed to revenue growth that was
lower than had been contemplated in the company™s annual financial plan. Target EPS was $3.25, compared to the
EPS Bonus Funding Result
Pretax Income Bonus Funding Result
Corporate Component
Business Line Component
Bonus Funding
Percentage
Overall Bonus Funding Percentage
32
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
actual EPS used for purposes of the annual cash incentive plan of $3.15. (Reported EPS of $3.16 was adjusted
downward by $0.01 for purposes of calculating the EPS Bonus Funding Result to partially offset the effect that our
higher-than-planned release of loan loss reserves had on our earnings.) After applying the leverage factor to the
difference between target and actual EPS, the EPS Bonus Funding Result was 87.7%.
Pretax income results ranged from 15.4% to 121.2% of target performance across revenue-producing business lines,
which generated Pretax Income Bonus Funding Results of 0% to 184.8% following application of the leverage factor.
After applying the 35% and 65% respective weightings to the above results and adding them together, the Bonus
Funding Percentages for the revenue-producing business lines in 2015 ranged from 30.7% to 150.8%. The Overall
Bonus Funding Percentage in 2015 was 81.8%.
The Bonus Funding Percentage used to calculate the annual cash incentive awards for each of Mr. Davis and Mr. Cecere
was the Overall Bonus Funding Percentage because they both have leadership responsibilities for the entire company.
Similarly, the Overall Bonus Funding Percentage was used to calculate Ms. Rogers™s and Mr. Parker™s annual cash
incentive awards because they are among the executive officers who lead a corporate-wide support function.
The Bonus Funding Percentage for each executive officer who leads a revenue-producing group, including Mr. Payne,
equals a weighted average of the Bonus Funding Percentages of all of the business lines for which he or she has
responsibility. The Bonus Funding Percentage for the Technology and Operations Services business line, led by Mr. von
Gillern, is calculated differently from all others in that 35% is based on the EPS Bonus Funding Result, 50% is based on
the weighted average Pretax Income Bonus Funding Results of all of the company™s revenue-producing business lines,
and 15% is based on that business line™s expense management performance compared to plan. The Compensation
Committee considers expense management to be particularly important to Technology and Operations Services because
this business line has responsibility for a significant portion of the company™s overall expenditures.
The resulting Bonus Funding Percentage for each NEO was as follows:
81.8% (the Overall Bonus Funding Percentage)
85.5% (equal to the weighted average of Bonus Funding Percentages for the 10
business lines for which Mr. Payne has responsibility)
85.4% (the Bonus Funding Percentage for the Technology and Operations Services
business line, for which Mr. von Gillern has responsibility)
Factoring in Individual Performance and Risk Sensitivity
The Compensation Committee considers the performance of the business lines managed by each executive officer and
that executive officer™s individual performance during the year. The Bonus Funding Percentage to be applied to an
executive™s Target Award Amount can be adjusted downward as well as upward based on these performance reviews.
The Compensation Committee also uses a formal ‚‚risk scorecard™™ analysis, which can result in downward or upward
adjustments to reflect the executives™ demonstrated sensitivity to risk. The Compensation Committee believes that it is
important to retain the ability to recognize outstanding individual performance and risk mitigation in determining Annual
Cash Incentive Payouts, as well as to acknowledge circumstances where individual performance improvements are
suggested or where inappropriate risk-taking behaviors have occurred.
Individual performance criteria for all executive officers include performance relative to risk management, leadership,
employee engagement, community involvement, involvement in special projects and new initiatives, and talent
management, as well as factors including credit quality and audit, regulatory and compliance results. Finally, the
Compensation Committee reviews the level of our corporate performance relative to our peer group in the principal
profitability measures used by the Board in assessing corporate performance, as well as in relative levels of total
shareholder return, as a check on the appropriateness of the award levels in the context of these operational
performance measures.
NEO
Applicable Bonus Funding Percentage
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
Kathleen A. Rogers
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
Jeffry H. von Gillern
33
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
2015 Actions and Results: The Compensation Committee determined that the payment amounts derived from multiplying
each NEO™s Target Award Amount by his or her applicable Bonus Funding Percentage appropriately reflected that
executive™s performance and contribution to the company in 2015. Accordingly, no performance-based adjustments were
made to the NEOs™ Bonus Funding Percentages. After analyzing the risk scorecard results, however, the Compensation
Committee made adjustments to two of the NEOs™ awards. The Bonus Funding Percentage applied to Mr. Davis™s Target
Award Amount was decreased by 3% in consideration of his oversight as CEO of ongoing compliance challenges in
certain business lines. The Bonus Funding Percentage applied to Mr. Parker™s Target Award Amount was increased by
5% in recognition of his success in leading the company™s efforts to comply with the heightened risk standards recently
imposed by regulators.
The resulting Annual Cash Incentive Payouts for 2015 were as follows:
78.8%
$2,304,900
81.8%
$920,250
81.8%
$485,688
85.5%
$561,094
86.8%
$678,125
85.4%
$587,125
Recoupment of Annual Cash Incentive Payouts
The Compensation Committee will evaluate the facts and circumstances surrounding a restatement of earnings, if any,
and, in its sole discretion, may adjust and recoup cash incentive amounts paid to our CEO, any executive officers or
any other employees as it deems appropriate, if attributable to incorrectly reported earnings.
Establishing the Structure and Value of the Equity Awards
The Compensation Committee grants the executive officers equity awards to align their interests with those of long-term
shareholders. As in each of the last several years, 75% of the value of each NEO™s long-term incentive award in 2015
was granted in the form of performance-based restricted stock units, and 25% was granted in the form of stock
options. These awards were granted under the U.S. Bancorp Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the
‚‚2007 Stock Incentive Plan™™). The Compensation Committee believes that this award structure provides appropriately
balanced incentives: the PRSUs receive more weight to emphasize the critical importance of corporate financial
performance, while the stock options represent a stable equity vehicle that fosters continued alignment with long-term
shareholder interests, even in periods of uncertainty.
PRSUs are earned according to a formula tied to our one-year ROE performance, as described in detail below. Both
earned PRSUs and stock options vest ratably over four years from the grant date, and PRSU awards are settled in
shares of our common stock. Cash dividends on unvested PRSUs are accrued during the performance period, but
accrued dividends are only paid after the end of the performance period on shares actually earned by the executives.
Each year in January, the Compensation Committee determines the dollar value of that year™s long-term incentive
awards to be granted to the executive officers, and the grants are made in February. In setting each year™s award
amounts, the Compensation Committee considers the relative market position of the awards and the total compensation
for each executive, the proportion of each executive™s total compensation to be delivered as a long-term incentive
award, internal pay equity, executive performance and changes in responsibility, retention concerns, and corporate
performance.
2015 Actions and Results: The long-term equity awards granted in early 2015 represented increases in value of 0% to
17.6% for our NEOs who were incumbent executive officers. The most significant increases on a percentage basis went
to Mr. Cecere in recognition of his appointment to the Chief Operating Officer role and to Mr. Parker in recognition of the
increasing responsibilities of his role as Chief Risk Officer.
Percentage of Target
Dollar Value
NEO
Award Amount Paid Out
of Payout
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
Kathleen A. Rogers
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
Long-Term Incentive Awards
34
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
The number of PRSUs earned each year is determined according to a formula that uses a comparison of our actual
ROE to target results established in our company™s annual financial plan, as well as our ROE performance relative to
that of our peer group companies. ROE is used as the performance metric because:

it directly reflects the return generated by the company on our shareholders™ investment;

it encompasses profitability, efficiency, balance sheet management and financial leverage, and is among the most
widely used indicators of financial performance in our industry;

achieving a high ROE requires prudent management of the tradeoffs between risk and return, requiring an
appropriate balance between achieving the highest return on invested capital and managing risk within the
company™s established risk tolerance levels; and

using ROE as a performance metric aligns the interests of the executives with those of long-term shareholders,
because sustaining a high ROE is a primary driver of strong earnings growth.
The Compensation Committee believes that using a one-year performance period for the PRSUs provides important
clarity for the NEOs and a strong pay and performance link. The one-year performance period creates a clear sense that
strong leadership and effort will directly affect the number of shares ultimately received. The Compensation Committee
has carefully considered using a longer cycle for its performance-based equity grants, but believes that the continued
uncertainty in the economy and the financial industry, as well as the regulatory environment affecting our business,
could have a significant effect on the company™s ROE over a longer time horizon that could mute the effects of
management performance. The link between performance and pay would be weakened and the incentive effect of the
award reduced if members of executive management perceived that the relationship between their performance and the
ultimate value of their award may be largely diluted by factors outside of their control. In addition, the PRSUs vest over
a four-year period, which encourages executives to improve corporate performance during this longer period so that the
company™s stock price, and consequently the value of the award, increase while the award vests.
Determining the Percentage of Target PRSUs Earned
At the time of each PRSU grant, the Compensation Committee establishes a one-year target level for U.S. Bancorp™s
absolute level of ROE, as well as a sliding scale of ROE achievement and corresponding increases or decreases in
award earn-out amounts. The absolute ROE target aligns with the company™s annual financial plan, which is approved
by the company™s Board of Directors after consideration of, among other things, the degree of achievability. Target ROE
is therefore designed to be a goal that is challenging yet reasonably achievable. The Compensation Committee also
establishes a sliding scale of ROE achieved relative to our peer companies™ ROE, with median performance as the target
level and corresponding increases or decreases in award earn-out amounts. The Compensation Committee uses a
performance matrix reflecting both the absolute and relative ROE scales to determine the final PRSU award amounts
earned by interpolation using the actual ROE level achieved during the year.
The Compensation Committee established the following performance matrix at the time the 2015 PRSU awards were
granted, providing for the actual award amounts to range from 0% to 125% of the target number of units in each
award:
Company ROE of 18.5% or more
75%112.5%125%
Company ROE Target (14.7%)
50%100%112.5%
Company ROE of 11.5% or less (but >0)
25%
50%
75%
Company ROE of 0% or less
0%
0%
0%
Peer GroupPeer GroupPeer Group
ROE RankingROE RankingROE Ranking
at 25th %ileat Medianat 75th %ile
or below
or above
Selecting the Performance Metrics for the PRSU Awards
2015 ROE PERFORMANCE MATRIX
Company
ROE
Result
(Vertical Axis)
Peer Group ROE Ranking (Horizontal Axis)
35
Target Award Number Percentage
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
The Compensation Committee believes that the PRSU earn-out structure provides an important balance between
rewarding the achievement of absolute performance goals and strong relative performance. For example, if our absolute
ROE is less than the specified ROE minimum for U.S. Bancorp, the target award number will not be earned, even if our
relative ROE is at or above the 75
th
 percentile in the peer group ROE ranking. In such a case, the number of earned
units will be below the target number, even if U.S. Bancorp substantially outperforms every other company in the peer
group. Conversely, if our relative ROE is significantly below the median in the peer group, the executive will earn a
below-target number of units, even if U.S. Bancorp™s absolute ROE substantially exceeds the target ROE. Thus,
executives are not rewarded for poor performance simply because peer group members have even worse performance,
nor are they rewarded for exceeding expectations (set at the beginning of the performance year) if performance relative
to peers is substandard. In addition, by using a sliding scale for each ROE performance metric, the matrix takes into
account the amount of variance from the ROE target and peer group ROE results, rewarding performance while
mitigating the incentive for excessive risk taking that may result from an ‚‚all-or-nothing™™ award.
2015 Actions and Results: Our ROE in 2015 was 14.0% compared to the target absolute level (on the vertical axis) of
14.7%. In comparison to its peer group, U.S. Bancorp™s 2015 ROE ranked first, which was above the 75th percentile (on
the horizontal axis). The final calculation resulted in the number of PRSUs earned being equal to 104.3% of the target
number of units granted.
Executive Benefits and Perquisites
In addition to the primary components of our executive compensation program, NEOs are also eligible to receive health
benefits under the same plans available to our other employees, matching contributions to their U.S. Bank 401(k)
Savings Plan accounts on the same basis as our other employees, and retirement benefits that are earned over their
career with the company. Perquisites for NEOs are limited, consisting primarily of financial planning expenses, home
security, parking and executive physicals. NEOs are not grossed up for tax liabilities resulting from perquisites.
Change-in-Control Agreements
We maintain change-in-control agreements with all of our NEOs except Ms. Rogers. We no longer enter into change-
in-control agreements with new executive officers because investors™ growing concerns with some aspects of those
agreements began to outweigh the value new executives placed on them. The terms of the legacy agreements we have
with the other NEOs are discussed below under the headings ‚‚Executive Compensation Š Potential Payments Upon
Termination or Change-in-Control Š Potential Payments Upon Change-in-Control.™™ These change-in-control agreements
were designed to reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication of our executive officers to their
assigned duties without distraction in the face of the potentially disruptive circumstances arising from the possibility of a
change in control.
Who Is Involved in Making Compensation Decisions
Executive compensation is determined by the Compensation Committee, which is composed entirely of independent
outside directors and is responsible for setting our compensation policy. The Compensation Committee has
responsibility for setting each component of compensation for our CEO with the assistance and guidance of Frederic W.
Cook & Co., Inc. (‚‚Cook & Co.™™), its independent compensation consultant. Our CEO and our executive vice president
of human resources, also with the help of Cook & Co., develop initial recommendations for all components of
compensation for the executive officers other than the CEO and present their recommendations to the Compensation
Committee for review and approval. The Compensation Committee also sets the total amount and types of
compensation paid to members of the Board of Directors.
The Compensation Committee retains Cook & Co. to:

provide advice regarding compensation program design, competitive practices, market trends and peer group
composition;
Other Compensation Components
Decision Making and Policies
36
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
23FEB201623452237
Compensation Discussion and Analysis

make recommendations to the Compensation Committee in setting the pay of our CEO;

provide the same advisory services to the Compensation Committee and our CEO and executive vice president
of human resources regarding the compensation of the other executive officers; and

advise the Compensation Committee on director compensation.
Cook & Co. does not provide any other services to our company. Following a review of the relationship between the
company and Cook & Co. in 2015, the Compensation Committee concluded that Cook & Co.™s work for the
Compensation Committee does not raise any conflicts of interest.
What Information Is Considered When Determining Compensation
In January of each year, the Compensation Committee makes the following decisions with respect to compensation of
our executive officers for the previous and upcoming year:

determine the Annual Cash Incentive Payout for each executive officer after consideration of that person™s
individual performance and sensitivity to risk during the previous year;

set the upcoming year™s base salary, Target Award Amount for the annual cash incentive plan, and value and
structure of the long-term incentive award for each executive officer;

establish performance and aggregate payout targets for the upcoming year™s annual cash incentive plan; and

establish the performance matrix for the upcoming year™s PRSU awards.
These decisions are informed by a year™s worth of information gathering and analysis on performance, risk, market
practices and shareholder views, as summarized below:
Consider relative company performance for the prior


   (“TSR”) compared to our peer group (described
   below), the KBW Bank Index, and the S&P 500 
– Return on average assets (“ROA”), ROE, and

– Stock valuation and debt ratings compared to peer 
   group
Management reports on feedback from meetings with 
institutional investors
Incentive Review Committee reports on risks arising
from the compensation program (discussed below)

– All components of compensation – direct and
   indirect – are represented


   (“walk-away numbers”) and the value of unvested

   termination scenarios (“retention glue”)
Review proxy advisor reports on company’s 
compensation programs
Using survey data, expand the compensation market 
check conducted in the third quarter to include all 

Update comparative information on compensation 
practices and trends
Using data from proxy statements, compare the 
compensation of our NEOs to those of our peer group 
and, as a supplemental market reference, to those of

Consider company performance over one-, three-,


Consider compensation practices and trends in the 

Review Say-on-Pay vote results across the industry
First Quarter
Second Quarter
Fourth Quarter
Third Quarter
Q1
Q2
Q4
Q3
As indicated above, the Compensation Committee performs several market checks per year in which it assesses the
alignment of relative compensation levels within our peer group with relative performance levels to ensure that our pay
levels are competitive with those of the companies with whom we compete for executive talent, while remaining
reasonable and appropriate. The Committee believes that the relative compensation of our NEOs within our peer group
37
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
is appropriate, given U.S. Bancorp™s asset size relative to the group and that it has consistently led its peers in the
common industry measures of ROE, ROA and efficiency ratio over many years.
In making executive compensation determinations, our Compensation Committee has also considered the results of the
non-binding, advisory shareholder votes on our executive compensation program in each year since 2009. Our
shareholders approved our executive compensation program in each of those years, most recently approving it by
95.2% of votes cast at our 2015 annual meeting of shareholders. The Compensation Committee will continue to
consider the results from this year™s and future advisory shareholder votes regarding our executive compensation
program.
In addition, the company continued its annual shareholder engagement program, described on page 15 of this proxy
statement, which includes discussion of executive compensation matters with some of our largest shareholders. The
Compensation Committee was mindful of our shareholders™ endorsement of the Compensation Committee™s decisions
and policies to date and decided to retain its general approach to executive compensation during 2015, with an
emphasis on short- and long-term incentive compensation that rewards our most senior executives when they deliver
value for our shareholders.
Peer Group Composition
When performing market checks on the level of compensation of our CEO and the other executive officers, the
Compensation Committee uses the same peer group of financial services companies that management and the Board
use for annual financial performance comparisons. The Compensation Committee believes that it is appropriate to make
executive compensation comparisons with respect to the same peer group that is used for financial performance
comparisons in large part because this group includes our primary industry competitors for executive talent.
The peer group used in 2015 has been in place since 2009 and is composed of the following companies, ranked in
order of asset size as of December 31, 2015:
This group was recommended by management and chosen by the Board for financial comparison purposes because
these financial institutions, along with U.S. Bancorp, are the ten largest financial services companies based in the United
States that provide broadly comparable retail and commercial banking services, and they are the companies with which
we compete for market share across our major business lines. Other companies that provide financial or similar services
and are within the asset size range represented by our peer group have significantly different businesses and business
strategies from ours. Specifically, we do not include Citigroup or Capital One Financial in our peer group because both
companies™ business mix is very different from our company™s; Citigroup also has a different geographic footprint,
including a significant international component.
Some of the companies in the peer group are significantly larger than we are, and some are significantly smaller. Within
this group, U.S. Bancorp is the fourth largest by asset size, total revenue, and total deposits. All of these peer
companies are included in the KBW Bank Index, which we believe is the most appropriate stock market index to use for
financial comparison purposes, and which is used in the Stock Performance Chart presented on page 153 of our 2015
Annual Report.
The Compensation Committee also reviews and uses compensation data from a large group of diversified financial
services companies as an additional point of comparison.
2015 U.S. Bancorp Peer Group

JPMorgan Chase & Co.

BB&T Corporation

Bank of America Corporation

SunTrust Banks, Inc.

Wells Fargo & Company

Fifth Third Bancorp

U.S. Bancorp

Regions Financial Corporation

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.

KeyCorp
38
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Risk Considerations in Setting Compensation Plans and Programs
Taking carefully considered risks is an integral part of any business strategy, and our compensation program is not
intended to encourage management decisions that eliminate risk. Rather, the combination of various elements in our
program is designed to encourage appropriate sensitivity to risk and mitigate the potential to reward risk taking that may
produce short-term results that appear in isolation to be favorable, but that may undermine the successful execution of
our long-term business strategy and negatively affect shareholder value. Together with the company™s processes for
strategic planning, its internal control over financial reporting and other financial and compliance policies and practices,
the design of our compensation program helps to discourage management actions that demonstrate insensitivity to risk.
We also structure our compensation program to comply with all relevant regulatory requirements, including, where
applicable, foreign regulations that may be different from those in the United States.
As a large financial services company, we have been subject to a continuing review of incentive compensation policies
and practices undertaken by the Federal Reserve Board since 2009. While participating in that review, we have
undertaken a thorough analysis of every incentive compensation plan of the company, the individuals covered by each
plan and the risks inherent in each plan™s design and implementation. The Incentive Review Committee was created to
oversee that review and to provide more comprehensive oversight of the relationship between the various kinds of risk
we manage and our company™s incentive compensation plans and programs. The Incentive Review Committee meets
throughout the year and is responsible for the ultimate review and recommendation of all company incentive plans. This
committee reviews plan elements such as plan participants, performance measures, performance and payout curves or
formulas, how target level performance is determined (including whether any thresholds and caps exist), how frequently
payouts occur, and the mix of fixed and variable compensation that the plan delivers. The plans and programs are also
reviewed from the standpoint of reasonableness (for example, how target pay levels compare to similar plans for similar
employee groups at other companies, and how payout amounts relate to the results that generate the payments), how
well the plans and programs are aligned with U.S. Bancorp™s goals and objectives and with the company™s risk appetite,
and from an overall standpoint, whether these plans and programs represent an appropriate mix of short-term and long-
term compensation.
As part of this review by our Incentive Review Committee, our management team, including senior risk officers and
individuals from the compensation department, have identified the risks inherent in these programs and have modified
plans and procedures where appropriate to mitigate certain potential risks. For example, most business line incentive
compensation plans with a credit component track early defaults, or defaults that occur within the first 12 months, and
must include a provision that allows the company to offset future payments by the amount of the previously paid
incentives related to the early default. In addition, a ‚‚risk scorecard™™ analysis measuring adequacy of risk management
is undertaken for all senior management-level employees, including the executive officers; all employees who have credit
responsibility and who participate in annual corporate cash incentive plans; and all employees who have been identified
by the company as persons able, individually or as part of a group, to engage in risk-taking behavior that could be
material to the company and who participate in annual corporate cash incentive plans. This analysis serves as the basis
for annual cash incentive plan adjustments for these employees. The Incentive Review Committee has reviewed its
process with the Compensation Committee and discussed the areas where compensation-related risks were being
addressed by plan modifications, or were mitigated by internal controls or otherwise.
The Compensation Committee also conducts an annual risk assessment of the compensation packages and
components for the executive officers. The Compensation Committee assesses the incentives for risk taking contained
in the compensation program and balances them with the other goals of the compensation program. The Compensation
Committee meets at that time with our CFO, chief credit officer, chief risk officer, general counsel and executive vice
president of human resources for a discussion of the material risks our company faces, in order to assess those risks
and the overall risk tolerance of the company approved by the Board of Directors in relation to the levels of risk inherent
in the compensation plans and programs and the performance targets set each year.
39
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
In evaluating the incentives for risk taking in compensation plans and policies for executive officers, the Compensation
Committee considered the following risk-mitigating aspects of those plans and policies:

 The majority of the total compensation received by executive officers is in the form of equity awards
with long-term vesting schedules, which helps to ensure that executives have significant value tied to long-term stock price
performance and mitigates incentives to manage the company with an excessive focus on short-term gain.

 The award payouts for all participants in the annual cash incentive plan, including our executive officers,
are dependent to a large degree on our corporate EPS performance. This structure provides a common, consistent focus on the
achievement of annual goals important to our overall success, while mitigating the incentives to take excessive risks in order 
to
achieve goals that are more closely linked to individual performance.

 A ‚‚risk scorecard™™ analysis is performed for all senior management-level employees, including
executive officers, and is reviewed by our Incentive Review Committee. The results of this analysis may result in decreases in
annual cash incentive compensation amounts when inadequate risk management is demonstrated.

 The company™s incentive compensation ‚‚clawback™™ policy discourages risk taking that would lead to improper
financial reporting.

 Beginning in 2012, the equity award agreements for executive officers have contained a
provision that cancels the vesting of equity awards if it is determined that the executive exhibited an inadequate sensitivity to risk
that caused a material adverse impact on the company or the executive™s line of business.

 The PRSUs use ROE as the measure of corporate performance for determining the final number
of units earned under the award. Achieving a high ROE requires an appropriate balance between achieving the highest return on
invested capital and managing risk within the company™s established risk tolerance levels.

 The number of units that may be earned under the performance formula is
capped at a modest level, which limits the potential incentive to take excessive risk in order to receive a greater number of s
hares.

 As described below, executives are required to hold significant amounts of
company stock, which fosters the alignment of executives™ interests with long-term shareholder interests.

 Executives are prohibited from actions designed to hedge or offset any decrease in the
market value of our common stock.
Based on a consideration of the foregoing reviews and factors, the Compensation Committee has determined that risks
arising from the company™s compensation policies and practices for its employees are not reasonably likely to have a
material adverse effect on the company.
Stock Ownership Requirements
The Compensation Committee believes that significant ownership of our common stock by our executive officers
directly aligns their interests with those of our other shareholders and also helps balance the incentives for risk taking
inherent in equity-based awards. We have had a requirement for many years that our senior executives hold significant
amounts of company stock. The current required ownership levels are:
6x base salary
3x base salary
Overall Compensation Program Risk Mitigation Factors
Long-Term Incentive Focus:
Annual Cash Incentive Risk Mitigation Factors
Broad Corporate Focus:
Specific Risk Sensitivity Analysis:
Clawback Policy:
Long-Term Incentive Risk Mitigation Factors
Specific Equity Cancellation Provisions:
Choice of Performance Metric:
Maximum PRSU Amount Limited to 125% of Target:
Meaningful Stock Ownership Requirements:
Policy Prohibiting Hedging of Shares:
Executive Officer
Ownership Level
CEO
Other executive officers
40
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
Unvested equity awards are not included in determining whether an executive officer satisfies these ownership levels.
Until the applicable ownership level is met, the executive officers must hold 100% of the after-tax value of any vested
stock award or exercised option.
As of December 31, 2015, all of our executive officers were in compliance with the stock ownership requirements. Most
executive officers complied by holding stock valued in excess of their applicable salary multiple, and those who have
not yet reached those levels (the most recently appointed executive officers) complied by holding their shares as
required. Our executive officers™ stock ownership levels often significantly exceed the requirements. For example, as of
February 1, 2016, Mr. Davis owned shares valued at 22.3 times his 2015 base salary.
Deductibility of Performance-Based Compensation
Annual cash incentive awards for the NEOs are granted under the EIP, which is designed to allow the company to issue
awards that qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (‚‚Section 162(m)™™). Accordingly, the annual cash incentive plan sets the maximum award level that can be
given to any NEO under the plan for any year at 0.2% of the company™s net income for the year. The Compensation
Committee then uses negative discretion to reduce the payout amount of an executive™s cash incentive award to an
amount that is determined based on the formula described above: Target Award Amount 

(Bonus Funding Percentage
+/- Individual Performance and Risk Sensitivity). The maximum award amount under the EIP was established principally
to position these awards to comply with regulations under Section 162(m), and is not indicative of the expected payout
amounts.
In 2015 and in previous years, PRSUs and stock options were awarded to our NEOs under the 2007 Stock Incentive
Plan. Starting in 2016, annual equity awards are granted under the U.S. Bancorp 2015 Stock Incentive Plan. Based on
the design of those plans, the PRSUs and stock options granted to NEOs are intended to qualify as performance-based
compensation under Section 162(m).
We review all compensation programs and payments to determine the tax impact on the company as well as on the
executive officers. In addition, we review the impact of our programs against other considerations, such as accounting
impact, shareholder alignment, market competitiveness, effectiveness and perceived value to employees. Because many
different factors influence a well-rounded, comprehensive executive compensation program, the Compensation
Committee may award compensation that is not deductible under Section 162(m). In addition, there can be no
assurance that compensation awards intended to qualify for tax deductibility under Section 162(m) will ultimately be
determined by the Internal Revenue Service to so qualify.
Compensation Committee Report
The Compensation and Human Resources Committee has reviewed and discussed the Compensation Discussion and
Analysis with management. Based upon this review and discussion, the Compensation and Human Resources
Committee recommended to the Board of Directors that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in this
proxy statement and in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors of U.S. Bancorp
David B. O™Maley, 
Chair
O™dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H.
Arthur D. Collins, Jr.Scott W. Wine
Olivia F. Kirtley
41
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Executive Compensation
Executive Compensation
The following table shows the cash and non-cash compensation awarded to or earned by our NEOs for 2015.
20151,300,0005,812,5001,937,5002,304,900202,47827,63211,585,010
Chairman, President and20141,200,0005,625,0001,875,0002,465,1008,192,61815,35819,373,076
Chief Executive Officer20131,100,0005,250,0001,750,0002,600,00070,35523,30810,793,663
2015750,0003,750,0001,250,000920,25043,39928,0536,741,702
Vice Chairman and
2014725,0003,187,5001,062,5001,047,2631,400,03827,8837,450,184
Chief Operating Officer2013675,0003,093,7501,031,2501,121,850
Š32,2195,954,069
(former CFO)
2015475,000750,000250,000485,688298,45314,7052,273,846
Vice Chairman and
Chief Financial Officer
2015525,0001,815,000605,000561,094240,83035,2923,782,216
Vice Chairman,
2014500,0001,815,000605,000536,875419,49026,2203,902,585
Wholesale Banking
2013500,0001,815,000605,000578,750250,15630,5803,779,486
2015625,0001,500,000500,000678,125241,50724,5453,569,177
Vice Chairman and
2014550,0001,312,500437,500627,688471,96324,1703,423,821
Chief Risk Officer
2013475,0001,072,500357,500534,660149,42719,7062,608,793
2015550,0001,125,000375,000587,12557,65121,5892,716,365
Vice Chairman, Technology
and Operations Services
The amounts in this column are calculated based on the number of performance-based restricted stock units, or PRSUs,
awarded and the fair market value of U.S. Bancorp common stock on the date the award was made in accordance with
Financial Accounting Standards Board (‚‚FASB™™) Accounting Standards Codification (‚‚ASC™™) Topic 718.
The 2015 values in this table reflect the fair market value of each officer™s target payout for the 2015 PRSUs on the grant
date. The number of units subject to each of these awards that were earned based on our actual 2015 performance is
equal to 104.3% of the awards™ respective target amounts. The fair market value of the maximum potential payout amounts
for these awards on the grant date were as follows: (i) Mr. Davis, $7,265,625; (ii) Mr. Cecere, $4,687,500; (iii) Ms. Rogers,
$937,500; (iv) Mr. Payne, $2,268,750; (v) Mr. Parker, $1,875,000; and (vi) Mr. von Gillern, $1,406,250.
The amounts in this column are based on the fair value of the stock option awards as estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718. The assumptions used to arrive at the Black-Scholes value
are disclosed in Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The amounts in this column relate to awards granted under our EIP. The EIP and these awards are discussed above in the
‚‚Compensation Discussion and Analysis™™ section of this proxy statement.
Summary Compensation Table
Change in
Pension Value
and
Non-Qualified
Non-EquityDeferred
StockOptionIncentive PlanCompensationAll Other
Name and
SalaryAwardsAwardsCompensationEarningsCompensationTotal
Principal Position
Year($)($)
1
($)
2
($)
3
($)
4
($)
5
($)
Richard K. Davis
6
Andrew Cecere
7
Kathleen A. Rogers
8,9
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
9
1.Stock Awards
2.Option Awards
3.Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation
42
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Executive Compensation
The amounts in this column represent the increase in the actuarial net present value of all future retirement benefits under
the U.S. Bank Pension Plan and the U.S. Bancorp Non-Qualified Retirement Plan. A number of factors can cause the
amounts reflected in this column to vary significantly, including volatility in the discount rate applied to determine the valu
e
of future payment streams and changes to mortality assumptions.
The change in present value amounts reported for 2015 are substantially smaller than those reported for 2014 for the
respective NEOs. These smaller ‚‚change™™ values are primarily due to the higher discount rates for year-end 2015, which are
approximately 30 basis points higher than for year-end 2014, as well as annual cash incentive plan payout amounts at lower
levels than in recent years for certain of the NEOs. For the amounts reported for 2015, the effect of the higher discount rate
was offset or partially offset by increased age of the NEOs and increased service credited to the NEOs.
The net present values of the pension benefits as of December 31, 2015, used to calculate the net change in pension
benefits were determined using the same assumptions used to determine our pension obligations and expense for financial
statement purposes. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in our 2015 Annual Report on
Form 10-K for these specific assumptions. Additional information about our Pension Plan and Non-Qualified Retirement
Plan is included below under the heading ‚‚Pension Benefits.™™ We have not provided above-market or preferential earnings
on any nonqualified deferred compensation and, accordingly, no such amounts are reflected in this column.
The following table describes each component of the All Other Compensation column for 2015:
4,220
10,600
Š11,657
81933627,632
4,220
10,600
12,480Š
6639028,053
4,070
10,600
ŠŠ
Š3514,705
4,220
10,600
12,4807,927
Š6535,292
4,220
10,600
7,0002,690
Š3524,545
4,220
10,600
Š2,946
7883,03521,589
a.
The amount for Mr. Davis includes a matching contribution of $250 under our charitable matching gifts program, which matches
charitable gifts made by any of our employees and directors, and non-cash gifts with a value of $86. The amount for Mr. von
Gillern includes a matching contribution of $3,000 and a non-cash gift with a value of $35. The amounts for all other NEOs are
the result of non-cash gifts.
Our company occasionally allows its executives the personal use of tickets for sporting and special events previously acquired 
by
our company for the purpose of business entertainment. There is no incremental cost to our company for the use.
Mr. Davis served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer for all of 2015. His title changed to Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer on January 18, 2016, in connection with Mr. Cecere™s promotion to President.
Mr. Cecere served as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer until January 20, 2015, when he was promoted to Vice Chairman
and Chief Operating Officer. He was further promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer on January 18, 2016.
Ms. Rogers was appointed Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer on January 20, 2015.
Ms. Rogers and Mr. von Gillern were not NEOs in 2013 or 2014. Accordingly, the table reflects only their compensation for 2015.
4.Change in Pension Value and Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Earnings
5.All Other Compensation
MatchingReimbursement
Home Security
ParkingContribution intoof FinancialExecutiveSystem
Reimbursement401(k) Savings PlanPlanning ExpensesPhysicalExpensesOtherTotal
Name
($)
($)
($)($)
($)($)
a
($)
Mr. Davis
Mr. Cecere
Ms. Rogers
Mr. Payne
Mr. Parker
Mr. von Gillern
6.
7.
8.
9.
43
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Executive Compensation
The following table summarizes the equity and non-equity plan-based awards granted in 2015 to the NEOs. The first line
of information for each executive contains information about the 2015 annual cash incentive awards (paid in February
2016) that each executive was eligible to receive under our EIP, and the remaining information relates to performance-
based restricted stock units and stock options granted in 2015 under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan.
Grants of Plan-Based Awards for Fiscal 2015
Š
Š2,925,00011,758,000ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
2/19/151/19/15Š
Š0131,148163,932ŠŠ5,812,500
2/19/151/19/15Š
ŠŠŠŠ158,16544.321,937,500
Š
Š1,125,00011,758,000ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
2/19/151/19/15Š
Š084,611105,763ŠŠ3,750,000
2/19/151/19/15Š
ŠŠŠŠ102,04444.321,250,000
Š
593,75011,758,000ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
2/19/151/19/15Š
Š016,92221,150ŠŠ750,000
2/19/151/19/15Š
ŠŠŠŠ20,41044.32250,000
Š
Š656,25011,758,000ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
2/19/151/19/15Š
Š040,95251,188ŠŠ1,815,000
2/19/151/19/15Š
ŠŠŠŠ49,38844.32605,000
Š
Š781,25011,758,000ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
2/19/151/19/15Š
Š033,84442,304ŠŠ1,500,000
2/19/151/19/15Š
ŠŠŠŠ40,81944.32500,000
Š
Š687,50011,758,000ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
2/19/151/19/15Š
Š025,38331,727ŠŠ1,125,000
2/19/151/19/15Š
ŠŠŠŠ30,61444.32375,000
These columns show the potential payments for each of these executive officers under our EIP in 2016, for 2015
performance. Actual annual cash incentive payout amounts are determined in accordance with a formula based on
corporate EPS performance and business line pretax income performance, in each case ranging from 0% to 200% of target
levels, with the resulting number subject to adjustment for individual performance and risk sensitivity. Additional information
regarding how the payout amounts for these awards are determined is included above in ‚‚Compensation Discussion and
Analysis Š Annual Cash Incentive Awards,™™ and the actual amounts paid based on our 2015 performance are reported
above in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column in the Summary Compensation Table.
As described above in ‚‚Compensation Discussion and Analysis Š Annual Cash Incentive Awards,™™ the Compensation
Committee establishes a target cash incentive amount for each NEO each year, expressed as a percentage of the
executive™s base salary.
Our EIP provides the opportunity for each participant in the plan to earn a maximum cash incentive amount equal to 0.2%
of our net income for the performance year. Our net income for the 2015 fiscal year was $5.879 billion, and 0.2% of net
income was $11.758 million. As described above in ‚‚Compensation Discussion and Analysis Š Deductibility of
Performance-Based Compensation,™™ the maximum amounts calculated in accordance with the EIP are not indicative of
amounts the Compensation Committee expects to pay out.
Grants of Plan-Based Awards
All Other
Option
Date of
Awards:ExerciseGrant Date
Estimated Future PayoutsEstimated Future Payouts
Compensation
Number ofor BaseFair Value
Under Non-Equity
Under Equity
Committee
SecuritiesPrice ofof Stock
Incentive Plan Awards
1
Incentive Plan Awards
4
Meeting at
UnderlyingOptionand Option
GrantWhich GrantTargetMaximumThresholdTargetMaximumOptionsAwardsAwards
Name
DateWas Approved($)
2
($)
3
(#)(#)(#)(#)
5
($/Sh)($)
6
Richard K.
Davis
Andrew
Cecere
Kathleen A.
Rogers
Richard B.
Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill)
Parker
Jeffry H.
von Gillern
1.Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards
2.Target Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards
3.Maximum Estimated Future Payouts Under Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards
44
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Executive Compensation
These columns show the potential number of PRSUs that could have been earned by each of these executive officers in
2015. Depending on performance, 0% to 125% of the target number of PRSUs granted to the executive officers on
February 19, 2015, could have been earned. The number of units earned is determined using a sliding scale based on
(i) our 2015 ROE result versus a predetermined target and (ii) our 2015 ROE ranking within our peer group. Based on our
actual 2015 performance compared to the targets set in the award agreements for each executive, the number of units
earned is equal to 104.3% of their respective targets. Additional information regarding how the PRSU awards are earned is
included above in ‚‚Compensation Discussion and Analysis Š Long-Term Incentive Awards,™™ and the actual number of units
earned by each NEO is included in the Outstanding Equity Awards at 2015 Fiscal Year-End table below.
The earned PRSUs vest at 25% per year, with vesting dates of February 19, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. The PRSUs
accrue an amount equal to the dividends paid on our shares of common stock, which is paid at the end of the performance
period on the number of units earned.
These stock options were granted on February 19, 2015, and vest at 25% per year, with vesting dates of February 19,
2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019.
The grant date fair value of the PRSUs was calculated using the target number of units multiplied by the closing market
price of a share of our common stock on the grant date. The Black-Scholes option pricing model was used to estimate the
grant date fair value of the options in this column. Use of this model should not be construed as an endorsement of its
accuracy. All stock option pricing models require predictions about the future movement of the stock price. The
assumptions used to develop the grant date valuations for the options granted on February 19, 2015, were: risk-free rate of
return of 1.67%, dividend rate of 2.6%, volatility rate of 37.02%, quarterly reinvestment of dividends, and an average term
of 5.5 years. No adjustments have been made for non-transferability or risk of forfeiture. The real value of the stock options
in this table will depend on the actual performance of our common stock during the applicable period and the fair market
value of our common stock on the date the options are exercised.
4.Estimated Future Payouts under Equity Incentive Plan Awards
5.Option Awards
6.Grant Date Fair Value of Stock and Option Awards
45
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Executive Compensation
The following table shows the unexercised stock options and the unvested restricted stock, restricted stock units and
PRSUs held at the end of fiscal year 2015 by the NEOs.
Outstanding Equity Awards at 2015 Fiscal Year-End
Š
158,165
(2)
44.322/19/2025
Š
Š
41,191
123,575
(3)
40.322/20/2024
Š
Š
72,076
72,076
(4)
33.992/14/2023
Š
Š
221,022
73,674
(5)
28.632/15/2022
Š
Š
260,172
Š28.702/16/2021
Š
Š
300,122
Š23.862/16/2020
Š
Š
305,625
Š25.3510/22/2019
Š
Š
1,457,726
Š31.041/16/2018
Š
Š
919,118
Š35.761/17/2017
Š
Š
Š
ŠŠŠ136,784
(6)
5,836,573
Š
ŠŠŠ109,653
(7)
4,678,894
Š
ŠŠŠ85,259
(8)
3,638,002
Š
ŠŠŠ33,898
(9)
1,446,428
Š
102,044
(2)
44.322/19/2025
Š
Š
23,341
70,025
(3)
40.322/20/2024
Š
Š
42,474
42,474
(4)
33.992/14/2023
Š
Š
138,140
46,047
(5)
28.632/15/2022
Š
Š
165,564
Š28.702/16/2021
Š
Š
183,374
Š25.3510/22/2019
Š
Š
874,636
Š31.041/16/2018
Š
Š
321,691
Š35.761/17/2017
Š
Š
Š
ŠŠŠ88,247
(6)
3,765,499
Š
ŠŠŠ62,136
(7)
2,651,343
Š
ŠŠŠ50,242
(8)
2,143,826
Š
ŠŠŠ21,186
(9)
904,007
Š
20,410
(2)
44.322/19/2025
Š
Š
3,254
1,627
(5)
28.632/15/2022
Š
Š
1,331
Š28.702/16/2021
Š
Š
Š
ŠŠŠ17,646
(6)
752,955
Š
ŠŠŠ
8,371
(10)
357,191
Š
ŠŠŠ
4,266
(11)
182,030
Š
ŠŠŠ
1,736
(12)
74,075
Š
49,388
(2)
44.322/19/2025
Š
Š
13,291
39,876
(3)
40.322/20/2024
Š
Š
24,917
24,918
(4)
33.992/14/2023
Š
Š
81,042
27,014
(5)
28.632/15/2022
Š
Š
94,607
Š28.702/16/2021
Š
Š
96,041
Š23.862/16/2020
Š
Š
70,386
Š13.103/2/2019
Š
Š
210,204
Š31.041/16/2018
Š
Š
Š
ŠŠŠ42,712
(6)
1,822,521
Š
ŠŠŠ35,381
(7)
1,509,707
Š
ŠŠŠ29,475
(8)
1,257,698
Š
ŠŠŠ12,430
(9)
530,388
Outstanding Equity Awards
Option Awards
Stock Awards
Number of SecuritiesNumber of Securities
Number ofMarket Value of
Underlying UnexercisedUnderlying UnexercisedOption
Shares or Units ofShares or Units
Options
OptionsExerciseOptionStock That Haveof Stock That
(#)
(#)PriceExpirationNot VestedHave Not Vested
Name
Exercisable
Unexercisable($)Date
(#)
($)
1
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
Kathleen A. Rogers
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
46
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Executive Compensation
Š
40,819
(2)
44.322/19/2025
Š
Š
9,611
28,834
(3)
40.322/20/2024
Š
Š
14,724
14,725
(4)
33.992/14/2023
Š
Š
47,889
15,963
(5)
28.632/15/2022
Š
Š
59,129
Š28.702/16/2021
Š
Š
Š
ŠŠŠ35,296
(6)
1,506,080
Š
ŠŠŠ25,584
(7)
1,091,669
Š
ŠŠŠ17,417
(8)
743,183
Š
ŠŠŠ
7,344
(9)
313,368
Š
30,614
(2)
44.322/19/2025
Š
Š
7,250
21,750
(3)
40.322/20/2024
Š
Š
13,591
13,592
(4)
33.992/14/2023
Š
Š
Š
13,508
(5)
28.632/15/2022
Š
Š
53,597
Š32.702/12/2018
Š
Š
42,879
Š36.252/13/2017
Š
Š
Š
ŠŠŠ26,471
(6)
1,129,518
Š
ŠŠŠ19,297
(7)
823,403
Š
ŠŠŠ16,077
(8)
686,006
Š
ŠŠŠ
6,215
(9)
265,194
The amounts in this column are calculated using a per share value of $42.67, the closing market price of a share of our
common stock on December 31, 2015, the last business day of the year.
These non-qualified stock options vest at the rate of 25% per year, with vesting dates of February 19, 2016, 2017, 2018
and 2019.
These non-qualified stock options vest at the rate of 25% per year; 25% vested on February 20, 2015, with remaining
vesting to occur on February 20, 2016, 2017 and 2018.
These non-qualified stock options vest at the rate of 25% per year; 25% vested on each of February 14, 2014 and 2015,
with remaining vesting to occur on February 14, 2016 and 2017.
These non-qualified stock options vest at the rate of 25% per year; 25% vested on each of February 15, 2013, 2014 and
2015, with remaining vesting to occur on February 15, 2016.
These PRSUs, the number of which was determined based on our actual 2015 performance compared to the targets set
in the applicable award agreements, vest at the rate of 25% per year, with vesting dates of February 19, 2016, 2017, 2018
and 2019.
These PRSUs, the number of which was determined based on our actual 2014 performance compared to the targets set
in the applicable award agreements, vest at the rate of 25% per year; 25% vested on February 20, 2015, with remaining
vesting to occur on February 20, 2016, 2017 and 2018.
These PRSUs, the number of which was determined based on our actual 2013 performance compared to the targets set
in the applicable award agreements, vest at the rate of 25% per year; 25% vested on each of February 14, 2014 and
2015, with remaining vesting to occur on February 14, 2016 and 2017.
These PRSUs, the number of which was determined based on our actual 2012 performance compared to the targets set
in the applicable award agreements, vest at the rate of 25% per year; 25% vested on each of February 15, 2013, 2014
and 2015, with remaining vesting to occur on February 15, 2016.
These restricted stock units vest at the rate of 25% per year; 25% vested on February 20, 2015, with remaining vesting to
occur on February 20, 2016, 2017 and 2018.
These restricted shares vest at the rate of 25% per year; 25% vested on each of February 14, 2014 and 2015, with
remaining vesting to occur on February 14, 2016 and 2017.
These restricted shares vest at the rate of 25% per year; 25% vested on each of February 15, 2013, 2014 and 2015, with
remaining vesting to occur on February 15, 2016.
Option Awards
Stock Awards
Number of SecuritiesNumber of Securities
Number ofMarket Value of
Underlying UnexercisedUnderlying UnexercisedOption
Shares or Units ofShares or Units
Options
OptionsExerciseOptionStock That Haveof Stock That
(#)
(#)PriceExpirationNot VestedHave Not Vested
Name
Exercisable
Unexercisable($)Date
(#)
($)
1
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
47
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Executive Compensation
The following table summarizes information with respect to stock option awards exercised and restricted stock,
restricted stock units and PRSUs vested during fiscal 2015 for each of the NEOs.
Option Exercises and Stock Vested during Fiscal 2015
548,2978,271,444
220,1029,850,772
250,6503,631,668
130,3615,835,129
Š
Š
8,128362,606
250,0003,226,722
59,5882,665,353
60,0251,149,815
42,7131,910,479
102,3481,234,579
26,8081,198,201
Value determined by subtracting the exercise price per share from the market value per share of our common stock
on the date of exercise and multiplying the difference by the number of shares acquired on exercise.
Value determined by multiplying the number of vested shares or units by the opening market price of a share of our
common stock on the vesting date, or on the next business day in the event the vesting date is not on a business
day.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
The U.S. Bank Pension Plan was created through the merger of the former U.S. Bancorp™s career average pay defined
benefit plan, known as the ‚‚U.S. Bancorp Cash Balance Pension Plan,™™ and the former Firstar Corporation™s
non-contributory defined benefit plan, which was primarily a final average pay plan. Under the U.S. Bank Pension Plan,
benefits are calculated using a final average pay formula, based upon the employee™s years of service and average
salary during the five consecutive years of service in which compensation was the highest during the ten years prior to
retirement, with a normal retirement age of 65. Effective January 1, 2010, our company established a new cash balance
formula for certain current and all future eligible employees. Participants will receive annual pay credits based on eligible
pay multiplied by a percentage determined by their age and years of service. Participants will also receive an annual
interest credit. Participants in the pension plan that elected to receive pension benefits using the cash balance formula
had their existing benefits in the pension plan frozen and will earn future benefits under the cash balance formula.
Substantially all employees are eligible to receive benefits under the U.S. Bank Pension Plan. Participation requires one
year of service with U.S. Bancorp or its affiliates, and vesting of benefits requires five years of service for benefits under
the final average pay formula and three years of service for benefits under the post-2009 cash balance formula.
Messrs. Cecere, Parker and von Gillern were the only NEOs that elected to receive pension benefits using the cash
balance formula.
Although no new benefits are accrued under the former U.S. Bancorp Cash Balance Pension Plan formula and Firstar
Corporation™s plan formula for service after 2001, benefits previously earned under those plans have been preserved and
will be part of a retiree™s total retirement benefit. In order to preserve the relative value of benefits that use the final
average pay formula, subsequent changes in compensation (but not in service) may increase the amount of those
benefits.
Option Exercises and Stock Vested
Option Awards
Stock Awards
Number of SharesValue RealizedNumber of SharesValue Realized
Acquired on Exerciseon ExerciseAcquired on Vestingon Vesting
Name
(#)
($)
1
(#)
($)
2
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
Kathleen A. Rogers
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
1.Value Realized on Exercise
2.Value Realized on Vesting
Pension Benefits
48
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Executive Compensation
Federal laws limit the amount of compensation we may consider when determining benefits payable under qualified
defined benefit pension plans. We also maintain a non-contributory, non-qualified retirement plan that pays the excess
pension benefits that would have been payable under our current and prior qualified defined benefit pension plans if the
federal limits were not in effect.
Mr. Davis and Ms. Rogers earned benefits under the former Firstar Corporation plan that will be included in their
ultimate retirement benefits. Messrs. Cecere, Parker and von Gillern earned benefits under the former U.S. Bancorp
Cash Balance Pension Plan that will be included in their ultimate retirement benefits. Mr. Payne became an employee in
2006 and did not earn benefits under either of these prior plans.
Supplemental Retirement Benefits
Certain of our executive officers, including all of the NEOs except for Mr. Payne and Ms. Rogers, are eligible for a
supplemental benefit that augments benefits earned under the U.S. Bank Pension Plan and the non-qualified excess
benefits discussed above. The supplemental benefit ensures that eligible executives receive a total retirement benefit
equal to a fixed percentage of the executive™s final average cash compensation. In the case of Messrs. Parker and von
Gillern, their supplemental benefits were frozen in 2001. For purposes of this supplemental benefit, final average cash
compensation includes annual base salary, annual cash bonuses and other cash compensation awards as determined
by the Compensation Committee. Eligibility for these supplemental benefits has been determined by the Compensation
Committee based on individual performance and level of responsibility.
Vesting of the supplemental benefit is generally subject to certain conditions, including that an executive officer provide
a certain number of years of service determined by the Compensation Committee. Mr. Davis is eligible for an amount of
total retirement benefits at age 62 equal to 60% of the average cash compensation during his five consecutive years of
service in which he is most highly compensated, and he is fully vested in these benefits. Mr. Cecere is eligible for an
amount of total retirement benefits at age 65 equal to 55% of the average cash compensation during his final three
years of service, reduced by his estimated retirement benefits from Social Security. Mr. Cecere is fully vested in a
portion of his supplemental benefit, with his vested portion increasing on a pro rata basis up to age 60. Mr. Parker has a
frozen monthly annuity benefit of $1,761 in which he is fully vested, payable as early as his termination date. Mr. von
Gillern also has a frozen monthly annuity benefit of $138 in which he is fully vested, payable as early as his termination
date.
For Mr. Davis, the standard form of payment of the supplemental benefit is a ten-year certain, single life annuity. For a
portion of Mr. Cecere™s supplemental benefit, the standard form is either a lump sum or a joint and survivor annuity,
depending on the present value of the lump sum at retirement, and for the remaining portion of the benefit, the standard
form is a joint and survivor annuity. For the supplemental benefits for Messrs. Parker and von Gillern, the standard form
is either a lump sum or a joint and survivor annuity, depending on the present value of the lump sum at retirement. Each
of Messrs. Davis, Cecere and Parker has the option of electing to receive his supplemental benefit in other various
forms of annuity benefits. In general, this election must be made prior to the applicable officer™s retirement date. In
addition, Mr. Davis has the option to elect to receive the pre-2005 portion of his supplemental benefit as a lump sum
distribution, and Messrs. Cecere and Parker have the option to elect to receive their entire supplemental benefit as a
lump sum. This election must be made at least 12 months prior to the applicable officer™s retirement date, and
Mr. Cecere has made such an election. The amount of the lump sum distribution equals the actuarial equivalent of the
annuity form of payment and is calculated using substantially similar actuarial assumptions as for our pension plan
obligations discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in our 2015 Annual Report on
Form 10-K. The means of calculating the various annuity benefits are described in the pension plan.
49
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Executive Compensation
The following table summarizes information with respect to each plan that provides for payments or other benefits at,
following, or in connection with the retirement of any of the NEOs.
U.S. Bancorp Non-Qualified Retirement Plan:
Supplemental Benefits
2221,450,235
Š
Excess Benefit
228,346,406
Š
U.S. Bank Pension Plan
22681,870
Š
Total
30,478,511
(3)
Š
U.S. Bancorp Non-Qualified Retirement Plan:
Supplemental Benefits
302,105,013
Š
Excess Benefit
303,383,603
Š
U.S. Bank Pension Plan
30494,213
Š
Total
5,982,829
(4)
Š
U.S. Bancorp Non-Qualified Retirement Plan:
Supplemental Benefits
N/A
N/A
Š
Excess Benefits
27706,814
Š
U.S. Bank Pension Plan
27578,941
Š
Total
1,285,755
(5)
Š
U.S. Bancorp Non-Qualified Retirement Plan:
Supplemental Benefits
N/A
N/A
Š
Excess Benefit
101,665,218
Š
U.S. Bank Pension Plan
10390,979
Š
Total
2,056,197
(5)
Š
U.S. Bancorp Non-Qualified Retirement Plan:
Supplemental Benefits
18216,642
Š
Excess Benefit
321,891,090
Š
U.S. Bank Pension Plan
32624,689
Š
Total
2,732,421
(5)
U.S. Bancorp Non-Qualified Retirement Plan:
Supplemental Benefits
112,018
Š
Excess Benefit
15495,615
Š
U.S. Bank Pension Plan
15229,850
Š
Total
737,483
(5)
The measurement date and material actuarial assumptions applied in quantifying the present value of the current
accrued benefits are discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in our 2015 Annual
Report on Form 10-K. These assumptions include the use of a 4.28% discount rate for the supplemental and excess
plans and a 4.47% discount rate for the qualified pension plan. The mortality assumptions used are based on the RP
2014 mortality table projected generationally using a customized RPEC_2014 scale. The average pay used for the
benefit calculations was historical pay through the measurement date (December 31, 2015).
Pension Benefits for Fiscal 2015
Number ofPresent
YearsValue ofPayments
CreditedAccumulatedDuring Last
ServiceBenefitsFiscal Year
Name
Plan Name
(#)
($)
1,2
($)
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
Kathleen A. Rogers
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
1.
50
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Executive Compensation
The amounts in this column were calculated based on the earliest age at which the applicable officer is entitled to
receive unreduced retirement benefits and ignore any vesting requirements. The earliest age of unreduced retirement
benefits is 62 for Mr. Davis and 65 for Messrs. Cecere, Payne, Parker, and von Gillern and Ms. Rogers.
In the event of the death of one of the officers in this table, a pre-established percentage of the officer™s pension
benefits will be paid to the officer™s beneficiary. The actual percentage paid to the beneficiary is dependent on the
form of payment of benefits elected by the officer. The default percentage is 50% to the officer™s spouse. An
additional lump sum death benefit may be payable based on certain actuarial calculations. The present value of the
payments to an officer™s beneficiary would not exceed the total present value of accumulated benefits shown in this
column.
Mr. Davis is 100% vested and eligible to begin receiving his U.S. Bank Pension Plan benefit and the pre-2005 portion
of his excess and supplemental benefits upon retirement. The remainder of his excess and supplemental benefits are
payable upon the later of age 62 or retirement. The portion of his benefits available at retirement are reduced by an
early retirement benefit formula specified in the applicable plan for each year prior to his reaching age 62. The early
retirement benefit formula reduces the annual pension benefit amount payable to Mr. Davis due to the longer benefit
payment period related to the earlier commencement of benefits.
Mr. Cecere is 100% vested and eligible to begin receiving his U.S. Bank Pension Plan benefit and the pre-2005
portion of his excess and supplemental benefits upon retirement at any age. The remainder of his excess and
supplemental benefits are payable upon the later of age 62 or retirement. If any of the vested benefits are paid before
Mr. Cecere reaches age 65, the benefits are reduced by certain early retirement benefit formulas specified in the
applicable plan for each year prior to Mr. Cecere™s reaching age 65. These early retirement benefit formulas reduce
the annual pension benefit amount payable to Mr. Cecere due to the longer benefit payment period related to the
earlier commencement of benefits.
Ms. Rogers and Messrs. Payne, Parker and von Gillern are currently vested in 100% of their pension benefits.
Under the U.S. Bank Executive Employees Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) (the ‚‚Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan™™), members of our senior management, including all of our executive officers, may choose to defer
all or a part of their annual base salary and annual cash incentive payments. The minimum amount that can be deferred
in any calendar year is $1,000. Cash compensation that is deferred is deemed to be invested in one of several
investment funds, including a U.S. Bancorp common stock fund, as selected by the participant.
Shown below are the rates of return for each of the investment options (also known as measurement funds) available
under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan for the period from January 1, 2015, through December 31, 2015:
1.58%
0.32%
0.16%
1.28%

3.31%

3.76%

0.30%

2.41%

2.85%
Amounts deferred under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan are credited with earnings and investment gains
and losses by assuming that deferred amounts were invested in one or more of the hypothetical investment options
selected by the plan participant. Plan participants are allowed to change their investment elections at any time, but the
2.
3.
4.
5.
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
Fund Name
2015 Returns
Stable Value Fund
Bond Index Fund
Active Bond Fund
US Large Cap Equity Index Fund
US Small-Mid Equity Index Fund
Active US Small-Mid Equity Fund
International Equity Index Fund
Active International Equity Fund
Deferred Savings U.S. Bancorp Stock Fund
51
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Executive Compensation
changes are only effective at the beginning of the following calendar quarter. The measurement funds are merely
measuring tools to determine the amount by which account balances will be debited or credited to reflect deemed
investment returns on deferred compensation.
Although the plan administrator has established procedures permitting a plan participant to reallocate deferred amounts
among these investment alternatives after the initial election to defer, the election to defer is irrevocable, and the
deferred compensation will not be paid to the executive officer until his or her retirement or earlier termination of
employment. At that time, the participant will receive, depending upon the payment choice and investment alternatives
selected by the executive officer, payment of the amounts credited to his or her account under the plan in a lump-sum
cash payment or in annual installments over 5, 10, 15 or 20 years. Payments are made ratably in cash from each of the
investment alternatives in which the officer has a balance, except the stock fund, which is generally paid in shares. If a
participant dies before the entire deferred amount has been distributed, the undistributed portion will be paid to the
participant™s beneficiary. The benefits under the plan otherwise are not transferable by the participant.
Prior to the establishment of the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, members of our senior management could
defer annual salary and annual cash incentive compensation into a prior U.S. Bancorp deferred compensation plan.
Mr. Davis has deferred amounts under our prior plan.
The following table summarizes information with respect to the participation of the NEOs in any defined contribution or
other plan that provides for the deferral of compensation on a basis that is not tax-qualified.
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation for Fiscal 2015
Š
Š(89,658)
Š3,057,617
(2)
ŠŠŠŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠŠ
125,538
Š10,466
Š1,065,602
(3)
ŠŠŠŠŠ
The amount reported in this column represents the change during the last fiscal year in the value of the underlying
investment fund or U.S. Bancorp stock fund in which the executive officer™s deferred amounts were deemed to be
invested and any increases in the deferred amounts due to dividends payable upon those funds.
Of this amount, $776,000 represents deferrals of cash compensation from prior years that were reported in the
Summary Compensation Table in our proxy statement for the relevant years. The remaining balance represents the
cumulative earnings on the original deferred amounts.
Of this amount, $232,470 represents deferrals of cash compensation that was earned in 2014 and 2015. These
amounts were included as part of the pay reported in the Summary Compensation Table in our proxy statement for
the relevant years.
Payments Made Upon Termination
Except as discussed below under ‚‚Potential Payments Upon Change-in-Control,™™ if the employment of any of the NEOs
is voluntarily or involuntarily terminated, no additional payments or benefits will accrue or be paid to him or her, other
than what the officer has accrued and is vested in under the benefit plans discussed above in this proxy statement,
ExecutiveRegistrantAggregateAggregateAggregate
ContributionsContributionsEarningsWithdrawals/Balance
in Last FYin Last FYin Last FYDistributionsat Last FYE
Name
($)
($)($)
1
($)
($)
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
Kathleen A. Rogers
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
1.
2.
3.
Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change-in-Control
52
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Executive Compensation
including under the heading ‚‚Pension Benefits.™™ Except in connection with a change-in-control of U.S. Bancorp, a
voluntary or involuntary termination will not trigger an acceleration of the vesting of any outstanding equity award.
Payments Made Upon Disability
Under the terms of the U.S. Bancorp Non-Qualified Retirement Plan, Messrs. Davis and Cecere and all of our executive
officers with a non-qualified supplemental pension benefit are eligible for a disability benefit that is equal to 60% of their
current annual cash compensation. The definition of disability is similar to that used for the disability plan covering all
employees. The definition of annual cash compensation is the same definition as is used to calculate supplemental
pension benefits under this plan, without using a five-year average. Messrs. Payne, Parker, and von Gillern and
Ms. Rogers are eligible for an annual disability benefit of $150,000 (equal to 50% of their annual cash compensation, up
to $300,000 of compensation) under the terms of the U.S. Bank Long-Term Disability Insurance Plan insured by Hartford
Life and Accident Insurance Company. Optional additional disability insurance is available for purchase by those NEOs.
The definition of disability is generally that a participant is unable to perform material duties of his or her own
occupation for 24 months following the six-month elimination period, or any occupation after 24 months, and suffers a
loss of at least 20% in predisability earnings. The definition of annual cash compensation is actual cash compensation
for a one-year period ending September 30. The disability benefit for any of the officers would be reduced by any
benefits payable under the U.S. Bank Pension Plan, Social Security or worker™s compensation. The payments continue
until the participant dies, ceases to have a disability or reaches normal retirement age.
If the employment of any of our officers who have received equity compensation awards is terminated due to disability,
the terms of our stock option and PRSU agreements provide that the vesting and other terms of those awards will
continue as if the termination of employment did not occur. With the exception of Ms. Rogers, no financial information
for the event of disability is set forth below in the Potential Payments Upon Disability, Death, Involuntary Termination, or
Termination After a Change-in-Control table for the equity awards held by our NEOs, as there is no immediate financial
impact upon the occurrence of any of these events. Ms. Rogers holds unvested restricted stock and restricted stock
units she was granted before becoming an executive officer, and the agreements governing those awards provide for
the acceleration of any unvested restricted shares or restricted stock units in the event of long-term disability.
Payments Made Upon Death
In the event of the death of any of the NEOs, the benefits discussed above under the heading ‚‚Payments Made Upon
Termination™™ would be payable. Additionally, all of our equity award agreements provide for the acceleration of any
unvested award upon the death of the officer. For PRSUs, the target number of units will vest if the death occurs before
the performance period has ended, and the earned number of units will vest if the death occurs on or after the last day
of the performance period. The stock option agreements generally provide that the administrator of the officer™s estate
has a three-year period after death during which to exercise the options. NEOs are also eligible to receive life insurance
benefits under the same plans available to our other employees. Their benefit is equal to their annual cash
compensation up to $300,000. In addition, optional term life insurance is available for purchase. As this benefit is
generally available to all salaried employees and does not discriminate in scope, terms, or operation in favor of the
officers, the value has not been quantified in the Potential Payments Upon Disability, Death, Involuntary Termination, or
Termination After a Change-in-Control table.
Potential Payments Upon Change-in-Control
We entered into change-in-control agreements with each of Messrs. Davis, Cecere, Payne, Parker and von Gillern when
those NEOs first became executive officers. These legacy change-in-control agreements provide that if within 24 months
after a change-in-control of U.S. Bancorp the officer™s employment is terminated either by U.S. Bancorp (other than for
cause or disability), or by the officer for good reason, then the officer will be entitled to a lump-sum payment consisting
of (a) the officer™s prorated base salary through the date of termination plus the prorated amount of any bonus or
incentive for the year in which the termination occurs, based on the target bonus for the officer for that year, and (b) a
severance payment equal to three times the sum of the officer™s highest base salary, on an annualized basis, paid by
U.S. Bancorp during the prior five years plus the highest bonus earned by the executive with respect to any single year
during the prior five years. The terms ‚‚cause,™™ ‚‚good reason™™ and ‚‚change-in-control™™ are defined in the agreements. In
the event of a termination following a change-in-control, the officer would also be entitled to the benefits listed above
under the heading ‚‚Payments Made Upon Termination.™™ In addition, these officers are entitled to a tax gross up in
respect of excise taxes imposed on change-in-control payments or benefits under Section 4999 of the Code. The
amount of Mr. Cecere™s supplemental retirement benefits will be increased in the event he receives severance payments
53
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Executive Compensation
following a change-in-control of U.S. Bancorp. See the Potential Payments Upon Disability, Death, Involuntary
Termination, or Termination After a Change-in-Control table below.
All of our equity award agreements provide for acceleration of the vesting of any unvested award if an officer is
terminated within 12 months after a change-in-control of U.S. Bancorp other than for cause. For PRSUs, the target
number of units will vest if the qualifying termination occurs before the performance period has ended, and the earned
number of units will vest if the qualifying termination occurs on or after the last day of the performance period.
Accelerated options may be exercised at any time during the 12 months following the officer™s termination.
Pension Payments
No information regarding pension amounts payable to Messrs. Davis, Payne, Parker, and von Gillern and Ms. Rogers is
shown below in the Potential Payments Upon Disability, Death, Involuntary Termination, or Termination After a Change-
in-Control table. Applicable pension amounts payable to these executive officers are discussed above under the heading
‚‚Pension Benefits.™™ Mr. Cecere™s pension amounts are also discussed above under that heading, but under the terms of
the Supplemental Pension Plan, Mr. Cecere would receive an enhancement value of three years of service that would be
granted upon a termination following a change-in-control, the value of which is shown below.
The following table shows potential payments to the NEOs upon disability, death, involuntary termination or termination
upon a change-in-control of U.S. Bancorp. The amounts shown assume that termination was effective as of
December 31, 2015, the last business day of the year, and are estimates of the amounts that would be paid to the
executives upon termination in addition to the base salary and cash incentive payments earned by the executives during
2015. The actual amounts to be paid can only be determined at the time of an executive™s termination.
Potential Payments Upon Disability, Death, Involuntary Termination, or Termination After a Change-in-Control
Base Pay
780,000Š
Š3,900,000
Bonus
1,382,940Š
Š9,600,000
Acceleration of Unvested Equity
Awards:
Stock Options
1
Š1,950,404
Š1,950,404
PRSUs
2
Š15,599,894
Š15,599,894
Excise Tax Gross Up Payment
3
ŠŠŠŠ
Total
2,162,94017,550,298
Š31,050,298
Base Pay
450,000Š
Š2,250,000
Bonus
552,150Š
Š4,080,000
Acceleration of Unvested Equity
Awards:
Stock Options
1
Š1,179,733
Š1,179,733
PRSUs
2
Š9,464,677
Š9,464,677
Increase in Supplemental
Retirement Benefits
ŠŠ
Š
381,803
(4)
Excise Tax Gross Up Payment
3
ŠŠŠŠ
Total
1,002,15010,644,410
Š17,356,213
Payments Upon
Involuntary or
PaymentsGood Reason
Annual
UponTermination After a
DisabilityPaymentsInvoluntaryChange-In-Control
PaymentsUpon DeathTermination
Occurs
Name
Type of Payment
($)($)($)
($)
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
54
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Executive Compensation
Base Pay
150,000Š
Š
Š
Bonus
ŠŠ
Š
Š
Acceleration of Unvested Equity
Awards:
Stock Options
1
Š22,843
Š
22,843
Restricted Stock, Restricted
Stock Units and PRSUs
2
613,295
(5)
1,366,249
Š1,366,249
Total
763,295
(6)
1,389,092
Š1,389,092
Base Pay
150,000Š
Š1,575,000
Bonus
ŠŠ
Š2,812,500
Acceleration of Unvested Equity
Awards:
Stock Options
1
Š689,273
Š
689,273
PRSUs
2
Š5,120,313
Š5,120,313
Excise Tax Gross Up Payment
3
ŠŠŠŠ
Total
150,0005,809,586
Š10,197,086
Base Pay
150,000Š
Š1,875,000
Bonus
ŠŠ
Š2,349,000
Acceleration of Unvested Equity
Awards:
Stock Options
1
Š419,694
Š
419,694
PRSUs
2
Š3,654,301
Š3,654,301
Excise Tax Gross Up Payment
3
ŠŠŠŠ
Total
150,0004,073,995
Š8,297,995
Base Pay
150,000Š
Š1,650,000
Bonus
ŠŠ
Š2,031,750
Acceleration of Unvested Equity
Awards:
Stock Options
1
Š358,744
Š
358,744
PRSUs
2
Š2,904,118
Š2,904,118
Excise Tax Gross Up Payment
3
ŠŠŠŠ
Total
150,000
(6)
3,262,862
Š6,944,612
Value computed for each stock option grant by multiplying (i) the difference between (a) $42.67, the closing market
price of a share of our common stock on December 31, 2015, the last business day of the year, and (b) the exercise
price per share for that option grant by (ii) the number of shares subject to that option that vest.
Payments Upon
Involuntary or
PaymentsGood Reason
Annual
UponTermination After a
DisabilityPaymentsInvoluntaryChange-In-Control
PaymentsUpon DeathTermination
Occurs
Name
Type of Payment
($)($)($)
($)
Kathleen A. Rogers
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
1.
55
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Executive Compensation
Value determined by multiplying the number of shares or units that vest by $42.67, the closing market price of a
share of our common stock on December 31, 2015, the last business day of the year. The value of the PRSUs is
based on the number of units earned in the applicable performance period.
In the case of a change-in-control, the standard calculations as specified in regulations under Section 280(g) of the
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, were applied to the various benefits the executive officers would
receive in order to determine if any 280(g) excise taxes would be triggered and if so, what amount of 280(g) gross up
payments would be required under the terms of the change-in-control agreements.
Represents an increase in the amount of supplemental retirement benefits payable to Mr. Cecere. Such increase will
not be paid upon involuntary termination or termination for good reason after a change-in-control, but will be paid in
accordance with the terms of the supplemental retirement benefit plan in which he participates.
Represents the one-time value realized through accelerated vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units. Not
an annual amount.
Ms. Rogers and Mr. von Gillern each purchased additional disability insurance, which is not reflected in this table.
Director Compensation
Compensation for 2015
Our non-employee directors received the following cash fees for serving on the Board in 2015:
$90,000
$50,000
$20,000
$32,500
$7,500
Each non-employee director who served on U.S. Bancorp™s primary banking subsidiary™s board of directors or on any ad
hoc committee of the U.S. Bancorp Board of Directors received $1,500 per meeting for that service. Each non-employee
director was also paid $1,500 for each meeting he or she attended that was not a regularly scheduled Board or
committee meeting.
In addition, each non-employee director received an annual award of restricted stock units with a grant date fair market
value of approximately $140,000. Based on our closing stock price on January 22, 2015, the date of grant, directors
serving on the Board at this time were granted 3,224 restricted stock units. The directors who joined the Board toward
the end of the year received a prorated award of restricted stock units in January 2016. The restricted stock units
attributable to their service during a portion of 2015 are not reflected in the table below because the grant date was in
2016. For 2015, the non-employee directors could also elect to receive their annual board and committee retainers and
meeting fees in the form of additional restricted stock units in lieu of cash.
The restricted stock units reflected in the table below were granted under our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and were fully
vested at the time of grant. Each non-employee director is entitled to receive additional fully vested restricted stock
units having a fair market value equal to the amount of dividends he or she would have received had restricted stock
been awarded instead of restricted stock units. The restricted stock units are settled by delivery of shares of our
common stock when the director ceases to serve on the board, or in ten annual installments following the cessation of
service if the director so elects, except that all units are forfeited if the director is removed by our shareholders for
cause.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Retainer
Annual retainer for service on the Board
Additional annual retainer for Lead Director
Additional annual retainer for chairs of Community Reinvestment and Public Policy, Compensation
and Human Resources, and Governance Committees
Additional annual retainer for chairs of Audit and Risk Management Committees
Additional annual retainer for other members of Audit and Risk Management Committees
56
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Director Compensation
The Compensation Committee retained Cook & Co. to provide advice regarding competitive compensation practices,
peer analysis and recommendations to the Compensation Committee for guidance with respect to director
compensation in 2015. To determine director compensation for 2015, the Compensation Committee reviewed director
compensation information for our peer group companies to check the alignment of our compensation package with
market practice and current trends.
Director Stock Ownership Guidelines
The Compensation Committee has established stock ownership guidelines for each non-employee director equal to five
times the annual cash retainer. New directors must satisfy this guideline within five years after joining the Board. As of
December 31, 2015, all of the directors have sufficient holdings to meet or exceed the stock ownership requirements, or
have not yet served on our Board for five years.
Deferred Compensation Plan Participation
Under the U.S. Bank Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) (the ‚‚Director Deferred
Compensation Plan™™), our non-employee directors may choose to defer all or a part of their cash fees. The minimum
amount that can be deferred in any calendar year is $1,000. Cash fees that are deferred are deemed to be invested in
one of several investment funds, including a U.S. Bancorp common stock fund, as selected by the participant.
These investment alternatives are the same as those available under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. See
‚‚Executive Compensation Š Nonqualified Deferred Compensation™™ above on page 51 for the rates of return for 2015 for
each of these investment options (also known as measurement funds). The terms of the Director Deferred Compensation
Plan are substantially the same as the terms of the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan described in that section.
Prior to the establishment of the Director Deferred Compensation Plan, our non-employee directors could defer their
cash fees into a prior U.S. Bancorp deferred compensation plan. Under our prior plan, a director could defer the profit
amount associated with U.S. Bancorp stock options or other equity awards.
Director Compensation for Fiscal 2015
The following table shows the compensation of the individuals who served as members of our Board of Directors during
any part of fiscal year 2015.
99,000140,018
Š239,018
8,125Š
Š8,125
97,500140,018
Š237,518
90,000140,018
Š230,018
144,500
(5)
140,018
1,000
(6)
285,518
97,500
(7)
140,018
Š237,518
108,000140,018
Š248,018
127,500140,018
500
(6)
268,018
127,500
(7)
140,018
3,000
(6)
270,518
127,000
(5)
140,018
Š267,018
110,000140,018
Š250,018
8,125Š
Š8,125
129,500140,018
Š269,518
122,000140,018
Š262,018
106,500140,018
Š246,518
138,250
(7)
140,018
1,000
(6)
279,268
102,000
(5)
140,018
Š242,018
Richard K. Davis, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is not included in this table because he was an
employee of U.S. Bancorp during 2015 and therefore received no compensation for his service as director. The
compensation he received as an employee of U.S. Bancorp is shown above in the Summary Compensation Table.
Fees Earned orStockAll Other
Paid in CashAwardsCompensationTotal
Name
1
($)($)
2
($)($)
Douglas M. Baker, Jr.
Warner L. Baxter
3
Y. Marc Belton
4
Victoria Buyniski Gluckman
4
Arthur D. Collins, Jr.
Kimberly J. Harris
Roland A. Hernandez
Doreen Woo Ho
Joel W. Johnson
Olivia F. Kirtley
Jerry W. Levin
8
Karen S. Lynch
3
David B. O™Maley
O™dell M. Owens
Craig D. Schnuck
Patrick T. Stokes
Scott W. Wine
1.
57
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Director Compensation
The amounts in this column are calculated based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date the
grant was made in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718. In 2015, each director (other than Mr. Baxter and
Ms. Lynch) received a restricted stock unit grant of 3,224 units with a full grant value of approximately $140,000.
Mr. Baxter and Ms. Lynch joined the Board in December 2015, and each was granted a pro rata equity award for
their 2015 service in early 2016, which will be reported in our 2017 proxy statement.
No stock options were granted to any of the non-employee directors in 2015. The directors held restricted stock
units and options as of December 31, 2015, as follows:
57,727Š
ŠŠ
ŠŠ
ŠŠ
ŠŠ
ŠŠ
63,94133,088
60,31135,845
56,40711,029
7,068Š
71,29233,088
16,067Š
63,09611,029
16,067Š
5,014Š
63,22135,156
Mr. Baxter and Ms. Lynch joined the Board effective December 7, 2015.
Mr. Belton and Ms. Buyniski Gluckman did not stand for re-election at the 2015 annual meeting.
Messrs. Collins and Wine and Ms. Kirtley chose to defer their cash fees under the Director Deferred Compensation
Plan.
Matching contributions under our charitable matching gifts program, which matches charitable gifts made by any of
our employees and directors.
Ms. Harris and Messrs. Johnson and Stokes elected to convert their annual retainer cash fees into restricted stock
units under our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Messrs. Johnson and Stokes received compensation in the amount of
$22,500 and $19,500, respectively, for attending additional meetings throughout the year that they also elected to
convert into restricted stock units. The number of restricted stock units these directors received in lieu of cash was
calculated by dividing the cash fees being converted by the fair market value of a share of our common stock on the
date of grant, with any fractional units rounded to the nearest whole unit.
Mr. Levin resigned from the Board effective May 28, 2015.
2.
RestrictedVested
RestrictedVested
Name
Stock UnitsOptionsName
Stock UnitsOptions
Mr. Baker
Ms. Kirtley
64,96537,015
Mr. Baxter
Mr. Levin
Mr. Belton
Ms. Lynch
Ms. Buyniski Gluckman
Mr. O™Maley
Mr. Collins
Dr. Owens
Ms. Harris
Mr. Schnuck
Mr. Hernandez
Mr. Stokes
Ms. Woo Ho
Mr. Wine
Mr. Johnson
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
58
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Audit Committee Report and Payment of Fees to Auditor
Audit Committee Report and Payment of Fees to Auditor
Audit Committee Report
The consolidated financial statements of U.S. Bancorp for the year ended December 31, 2015, were audited by Ernst &
Young LLP, independent auditor for U.S. Bancorp.
As part of its activities, the Audit Committee has:
Reviewed and discussed with management the audited financial statements of U.S. Bancorp;
Discussed with the independent auditor the matters required to be discussed under 
Auditing Standard No. 16,
Communications with Audit Committees,
 as adopted by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(‚‚PCAOB™™), 
Statement of Auditing Standards No. 99 (Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit)
, and
under the SEC, PCAOB and NYSE rules;
Received the written disclosures and letter from the independent auditor required by applicable requirements of the
PCAOB regarding the independent accountant™s communications with the audit committee concerning
independence; and
Discussed with the independent auditor their independence.
Based on the review and discussions referred to above, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board of Directors
that the audited consolidated financial statements of U.S. Bancorp for the year ended December 31, 2015, be included
in U.S. Bancorp™s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of U.S. Bancorp
Roland A. Hernandez, 
Chair
Doreen Woo Ho
Warner L. Baxter
Joel W. Johnson
Marc N. Casper*
Scott W. Wine
*
Mr.Casper joined the Board of Directors on March1, 2016, and therefore was not a member of the Audit
Committee when it made its recommendation to the Board regarding the Annual Report on Form10-K.
Fees to Independent Auditor
The following aggregate fees were billed to us for professional services by Ernst & Young LLP for fiscal years 2015 and
2014:
$11.0$10.4
5.24.4
4.95.0
1.00.5
$22.1$20.3
Audit Fees:
 Audit fees consist of fees billed to us by Ernst & Young LLP for the audit of our consolidated financial
statements included in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, reviews of our financial statements included in each of our
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and audits of financial statements of our subsidiaries required by regulation, as well as
procedures required by regulators, comfort letters, consents and assistance provided with our regulatory filings.
Audit-Related Fees:
 Audit-related fees consist of fees billed to us by Ernst & Young LLP for audits of pension and
other employee benefit plan financial statements, audits of the financial statements of certain of our subsidiaries and
affiliated entities, reviews of internal controls not related to the audit of our consolidated financial statements, and
internal control reports for various lines of business to support their customers™ business requirements.
1.
2.
3.
4.
($ in millions)
20152014
Audit Fees
Audit-Related Fees
Tax Fees
All Other Fees
Total
59
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Audit Committee Report and Payment of Fees to Auditor
Tax Fees:
 Tax fees consist of fees billed to us by Ernst & Young LLP for tax compliance and review, tax planning and
other tax services. The aggregate fees billed for tax compliance and review services, including the preparation of and
assistance with federal, state and local income tax returns, sales and use filings, foreign and other tax compliance,
provided to us by Ernst & Young LLP was $4.1 million in 2015 and $3.8 million in 2014. In addition to fees being paid
for tax compliance services, we paid $0.8 million and $1.2 million for tax planning and other tax services provided to us
by Ernst & Young LLP during 2015 and 2014, respectively. Included in tax planning and other tax services was
$0.3 million in 2015 and $0.6 million in 2014 associated with advisory services related to new tax reporting regulations.
All Other Fees:
 Other fees billed to us by Ernst & Young LLP in 2015 primarily related to advisory services for internal
control, regulatory reporting and quality assurance programs, and in 2014 primarily related to regulatory compliance
advisory services.
Administration of Engagement of Independent Auditor
The Audit Committee is responsible for appointing, compensating, retaining and overseeing the work of our independent
auditor, including approving the services provided by the independent auditor and the associated fees. The Audit
Committee has established a policy for pre-approving the services provided by our independent auditor in accordance
with the auditor independence rules of the SEC. This policy requires the review and pre-approval by the Audit
Committee of all audit and permissible non-audit services provided by our independent auditor and an annual review of
the financial plan for audit fees. To ensure that auditor independence is maintained, the Audit Committee annually
pre-approves the audit services to be provided by our independent auditor and the related estimated fees for such
services, as well as the nature and extent of specific types of audit-related, tax and other non-audit services to be
provided by the independent auditor during the year.
As the need arises, other specific permitted services are pre-approved on a case-by-case basis during the year. A
request for pre-approval of services on a case-by-case basis must be submitted by our controller or chief risk officer.
These requests are required to include information on the nature of the particular service to be provided, estimated
related fees and management™s assessment of the impact of the service on the auditor™s independence. The Audit
Committee has delegated to its chair pre-approval authority between meetings of the Audit Committee. Any
pre-approvals made by the chair must be reported to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee will not delegate to
management the pre-approval of services to be performed by our independent auditor.
All of the services provided by our independent auditor in 2015 and 2014, including services related to the Audit-Related
Fees, Tax Fees and All Other Fees described above, were approved by the Audit Committee under its pre-approval
policies after consideration of any impact of these services on the auditor™s independence.
60
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
17FEB201623363571
Proposal 2 Š Ratification of Selection of Independent Auditor
Proposal 2 Š Ratification of Selection of Independent Auditor
The Audit Committee has selected Ernst & Young LLP as our independent auditor for the 2016 fiscal year. Ernst &
Young LLP began serving as our independent auditor for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. Our Audit
Committee has carefully considered the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as our independent auditor, and has also
considered whether there should be regular rotation of the independent external audit firm. The Audit Committee
annually reviews Ernst & Young LLP™s independence and performance in connection with the committee™s determination
of whether to retain Ernst & Young LLP or engage another firm as our independent auditor. In determining whether to
reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as U.S. Bancorp™s independent auditor, the Audit Committee took into consideration a
number of factors, including the length of time the firm has been engaged, the quality of the historical and recent
performance on the U.S. Bancorp audit, Ernst & Young LLP™s capability and expertise in handling the breadth and
complexity of our operations, and the appropriateness of Ernst & Young LLP™s fees on an absolute basis and as
compared to peer firms.
In accordance with SEC rules and company policies, lead and concurring audit partners are subject to a maximum of
five years of service in that capacity. The process for selecting the audit firm™s lead engagement partner involves
meetings with the candidates for the role by management, review and discussion with the Chair of the Audit Committee,
who meets with selected candidates, and further discussion with the full committee. The members of the Audit
Committee believe the continued retention of Ernst & Young LLP to serve as our independent auditor is in the best
interests of our company and its shareholders.
While we are not required to do so, we are submitting the selection of Ernst & Young LLP to serve as our independent
auditor for the 2016 fiscal year for ratification in order to ascertain the views of our shareholders on this appointment. If
the selection is not ratified, the Audit Committee will reconsider its selection. Representatives of Ernst & Young LLP are
expected to be present at the annual meeting, will be available to answer shareholder questions and will have the
opportunity to make a statement if they desire to do so.
FOR
The Board of Directors recommends that you vote ‚‚FOR™™ ratification of the selection of Ernst & Young LLP
as the independent auditor of U.S. Bancorp for the 2016 fiscal year.
61
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
17FEB201623363571
Proposal 3 Š Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
Proposal 3 Š Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
Executive compensation is an important matter to us. We are asking our shareholders to provide advisory approval of
the compensation of our executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table, as we have described it in the
‚‚Compensation Discussion and Analysis™™ and ‚‚Executive Compensation™™ sections of this proxy statement. We currently
conduct annual advisory votes on executive compensation and expect to conduct the next advisory vote at our 2017
annual meeting of shareholders.
We have designed our executive compensation program to attract, motivate, reward and retain the senior management
talent required to achieve our corporate objectives and increase shareholder value. Our compensation policies and
procedures are centered on a pay-for-performance philosophy and are strongly aligned with the long-term interests of
our shareholders.
Our company is presenting this proposal, which gives you as a shareholder the opportunity to endorse or not endorse
our executive pay program by voting ‚‚FOR™™ or ‚‚AGAINST™™ the following resolution:
‚‚RESOLVED, that the shareholders approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the named executive
officers, as described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the compensation tables and the related
disclosure contained in this proxy statement.™™
As discussed in the ‚‚Compensation Discussion and Analysis™™ section earlier in this proxy statement, the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors believes that the compensation for 2015 of our NEOs is reasonable and
appropriate, is justified by the performance of our company, and is working to ensure management™s interests are
aligned with our shareholders™ interests to support long-term value creation.
In deciding how to vote on this proposal, the Board requests that you consider the following factors, which are more
fully discussed in the ‚‚Compensation Discussion and Analysis™™ section beginning on page 25:

Our company was the top performer among its peers by numerous industry measures in 2015 and has been
among the top performers for many years.

Our executive compensation programs are centered on a pay-for-performance philosophy and are strongly
aligned with the long-term interests of our shareholders. A large majority of the total compensation of our senior
executives is tied to short-term and long-term corporate performance, and therefore the value of that
compensation varies depending upon the results we provide for our shareholders.

Our executive compensation program reflects many best practices that are intended to further align executive
compensation with shareholder interests and to mitigate risk.
This vote, which is required pursuant to Section 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
‚‚Exchange Act™™), is not intended to address any specific item of compensation, but rather our overall compensation
policies and procedures relating to our NEOs described in this proxy statement. Accordingly, your vote will not directly
affect or otherwise limit any existing compensation or award arrangement of any of our NEOs.
Because your vote is advisory, it will not be binding upon the Board of Directors. However, the Board values
shareholders™ opinions and the Compensation Committee will take into account the outcome of the vote when
considering future executive compensation arrangements.
FOR
The Board of Directors recommends that you vote ‚‚FOR™™ approval of the compensation of our named
executive officers, as disclosed in this proxy statement.
62
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Proposal 4 Š Shareholder Proposal Regarding Independent Chairman
Proposal 4 Š Shareholder Proposal Regarding Independent
Chairman
The Board of Directors recommends that you vote ‚‚AGAINST™™ the shareholder proposal set forth below.
Gerald R. Armstrong, 621 Seventeenth Street, No. 2000, Denver, Colorado 80293-2001, 303.355.1199, the owner of
7,276 shares of our common stock, has advised us that he plans to introduce the following resolution at the annual
meeting. In accordance with rules of the SEC, the text of the proponent™s resolution and supporting statement is printed
verbatim from his submission.
That the shareholders of U.S. BANCORP request its Board of Directors to adopt a policy, and amend the by-laws
as necessary, to require the Chairman of the Board of Directors be an independent member of the Board of
Directors.
This policy should not be implemented to violate any contractual obligation and should specify: (a) how to select
a new ‚‚independent™™ chairman if the current chairman ceases to be independent during the time between annual
meetings of shareholders; and, (b) that compliance is excused if no independent director is available and willing
to serve as Chairman.
The reasons given by the proponent for the resolution are as follows:
This proposal™s proponent is a long-term shareholder of U.S. BANCORP and was responsible for its elimination of
classified three-year terms for directors and super-majority voting requirements, and gained a policy prohibiting
officers and directors from pledging their U.S. BANCORP shares as collateral.
In past Annual Meetings, he presented similar proposals which received significant shareholder support.
He is familiar with U.S. BANCORP™s problems which originated under an administration where one person served
as Chairman and President and was accountable only to himself. The shareholders™ dividends remain reduced by
45%. All but four current directors began serving prior to the 2008 recession and six have tenures averaging
more than twenty years. The proponent believes an ‚‚independent™™ chairman would seek qualified board members
and prevent apparent entrenchment practices.
DuPont™s failures were placed upon its Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer who was ousted by its board in
the same manner that Target Corporation™s board ousted its Chairman/Chief Executive Officer a year earlier.
Studies have confirmed that underperforming companies that lack an ‚‚independent™™ chairman and companies,
world-wide, are routinely separating the positions of Chairman and CEO (CEO Succession 2000-2009: A Decade
of Convergence and Compression, Booz & Co., Summer, 2010).
The proponent believes the over-extension of duties weakens leadership and may have caused these failings. He
notes, too, that many successful corporations and financial holding companies have independent board chairmen.
Acquisitions could be ahead for U.S. BANCORP that would demand the greatest diligence and sound governance
practices of members of its Board of Directors to the best interests of all shareholders, including those of the
entity being acquired.
Norges Bank Investment Management has stated in support of a similar proposal:
‚‚The roles of Chairman of the Board and CEO are fundamentally different and should not be held by the same
person. There should be a clear division of responsibilities between these positions to insure a balance of power
and authority on the Board. Approximately 48% of the S&P 1500 companies have separate CEO and Chairman
positions.™™
If you agree, please vote ‚‚FOR™™ this proposal.
Shareholder Proposal
63
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Proposal 4 Š Shareholder Proposal Regarding Independent Chairman
The Board should retain the flexibility to determine the most effective leadership structure for U.S. Bancorp.
U.S. Bancorp™s Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that the Board™s leadership structure should be determined in
light of all relevant facts and circumstances at a given time. This approach allows the Board flexibility to determine
whether the roles of CEO and Chairman should be separate or combined based upon U.S. Bancorp™s needs and the
Board™s assessment of our company™s leadership from time to time. The Board has deep knowledge of our strategic
goals, the unique opportunities and challenges we face, and the various strengths and capabilities of our directors and
U.S. Bancorp™s senior management. Thus, rather than taking a ‚‚one-size fits all™™ approach to Board leadership, the
Board is best positioned to determine the most effective leadership structure for U.S. Bancorp at any given time.
U.S. Bancorp™s shareholders are best served by our current leadership structure.
In light of the current environment for the financial services industry and U.S. Bancorp™s business objectives, the Board
believes that the most effective leadership structure for U.S. Bancorp at the present time is for our CEO, Richard K.
Davis, to serve as Chairman of the Board. Combining the positions of Chairman and CEO most effectively utilizes
Mr. Davis™s extensive experience and knowledge regarding our company. Mr. Davis, who has more than 20 years of
service at U.S. Bancorp (including 11 years as President and 9 years as CEO), has the knowledge, expertise and
experience to understand and clearly articulate to the Board the opportunities and risks facing U.S. Bancorp. The Board
believes that combining the CEO and Chairman positions helps the Board respond quickly and effectively to the many
business, market and regulatory challenges facing companies in the rapidly changing financial services industry; serves
as a highly effective bridge between the Board and management; and provides the leadership to execute our business
strategy and create shareholder value. In addition, Mr. Davis™s service as Chairman provides a clarity of leadership for
the company and more effectively allows the company to present its vision with one voice.
U.S. Bancorp™s corporate governance practices and Board composition provide for strong independent
leadership and effective independent oversight of our company.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of good governance and has adopted practices and procedures to
provide for Board independence and effective oversight of management:

With the exception of Mr. Davis, the Board is composed entirely of independent directors.

In accordance with the Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Board has a strong, independent Lead Director.
Whenever the Chairman of the Board is not an independent director, the independent members of the Board elect
an independent director to act as Lead Director based on the recommendation of our Governance Committee.
The Lead Director is expected to serve in that capacity for three to five years, and has substantial leadership
responsibilities. These responsibilities are described above under the caption ‚‚Corporate Governance Š Board
Leadership Structure.™™ The powers and duties of the Chairman and the Lead Director differ only in that the
Chairman presides over the normal business portion of the meetings of the Board. The Lead Director conducts
executive sessions of the Board without Mr. Davis at every regular Board meeting and may call for an executive
session of independent directors at any time, and approves all Board meeting agendas and schedules. Arthur D.
Collins, Jr., is actively engaged as Lead Director and works closely with Mr. Davis on Board matters. The Lead
Director provides independent oversight of management and meaningful coordination between our Chairman and
our independent directors.

Each of the Audit Committee, Governance Committee, and Compensation and Human Resources Committee is
composed solely of independent directors. This means the independent directors oversee critical matters such as
the quality and integrity of our financial statements; the compensation of our executive officers, including our
Chairman and CEO; the nomination of directors; and the evaluation of the Board and its committees.

The Board undergoes a measured rate of refreshment in order to balance the fresh perspectives contributed by
newer members with the business, industry and governance experience contributed by longer-serving members.
Taking into consideration the fact that two of our current directors will not stand for re-election at the upcoming
annual meeting, five seats on the Board (representing more than one-third of the Board) will have turned over
during the past two years.
Board of Directors™ Response
64
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
17FEB201623363432
Proposal 4 Š Shareholder Proposal Regarding Independent Chairman

The Compensation and Human Resources Committee is responsible for evaluating the CEO™s performance and
determining his compensation.

The Board and the Audit Committee, Governance Committee, and Compensation and Human Resources
Committee each meet in executive session on a regular basis without the presence of management.

All Board members have complete access to management and the authority to retain legal, accounting and other
outside consultants to advise the Board and the committees as they deem appropriate.
The proposal™s suggestion that U.S. Bancorp™s dividend rate is attributable to its Board leadership structure is
misleading.
In March 2009, the Board prudently reduced U.S. Bancorp™s quarterly cash dividend rate to preserve capital in the face
of the severe U.S. economic crisis. The proposal incorrectly suggests that this dividend reduction was somehow
attributable to the Chairman and CEO positions being held by the same person. Instead, U.S. Bancorp™s dividend rate is
determined by the Board based on U.S. Bancorp™s capital position and the limitations imposed by federal bank
regulators. Since March 2009, U.S. Bancorp™s quarterly cash dividend rate has been increased by 410%.
Proposal 5 Š Shareholder Proposal Regarding Executive Stock
Retention
The Board of Directors recommends that you vote ‚‚AGAINST™™ the shareholder proposal set forth below.
The Service Employees International Union General Fund, 1800 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20036, the
owner of 80 shares of our common stock, has advised us that it plans to introduce the following resolution at the annual
meeting. In accordance with rules of the SEC, the text of the proponent™s resolution and supporting statement is printed
verbatim from its submission.
Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp (the ‚‚Company™™) urge the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the
Board of Directors (the ‚‚Committee™™) to adopt a policy requiring that senior executives retain a significant
percentage of shares acquired through equity compensation programs until the earlier of reaching normal
retirement age or terminating employment with the Company. For the purposes of this policy, normal retirement
age shall be defined by the Company™s qualified retirement plan that has the largest number of plan participants.
The shareholders recommend the Committee adopt a share retention percentage requirement of at least
75 percent of net after-tax shares. The policy should prohibit hedging transactions for shares subject to this
policy which are not sales but reduce the risk of loss to the executive. This policy shall supplement any other
share ownership requirements that have been established for senior executives, and should be implemented so
as not to violate the Company™s existing contractual obligations or the terms of any compensation or benefit plan
currently in effect.
AGAINST
The Board of Directors recommends that you vote ‚‚AGAINST™™ this proposal seeking the adoption of a
policy requiring that the Chairman of the Board be an independent director. Proxies will be voted against
the proposal unless you vote in favor of it.
Shareholder Proposal
65
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Proposal 5 Š Shareholder Proposal Regarding Executive Stock Retention
The reasons given by the proponent for the resolution are as follows:
Equity-based compensation is an important component of senior executive compensation at our Company. While
we encourage the use of equity-based compensation for senior executives, we are concerned our Company™s
senior executives are generally free to sell shares received from our Company™s equity compensation plans. In our
opinion, the Company™s current share ownership guidelines for senior executives do not go far enough to ensure
that the Company™s equity compensation plans continue to build stock ownership by senior executives over the
long-term.
For example, according to last year™s proxy statement, our Company™s share ownership guidelines required the
Chief Executive officer (the ‚‚CEO™™) to hold shares equal to six times his base salary, or $7.2 million based on his
$1.2 million base salary in 2014. In comparison, according to last year™s proxy statement, our CEO held 611,908
shares, valued at approximately $27.1 million as of February 11, 2015. However, over the 10-year period ending
November 11, 2015, CEO Richard Davis had sold approximately 3.3 million shares, including 2.2 million shares
since the beginning of 2010.
We believe that requiring senior executives to only hold shares equal to a set target loses effectiveness over time.
After satisfying these target holding requirements, senior executives are free to sell all the additional shares they
receive in equity compensation.
Our proposal seeks to better link executive compensation with long-term performance by requiring a meaningful
share retention ratio for shares received by senior executives from the Company™s equity compensation plans.
Requiring senior executives to hold a significant percentage of shares obtained through equity compensation
plans until they reach retirement age will better align the interests of executives with the interests of shareholders
and the Company.
U.S. Bancorp™s stock ownership guidelines for executive officers already align the interests of management with
those of our shareholders and the company.
For many years the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of our Board has required that senior executives
hold significant amounts of company stock received as equity compensation. The current required ownership levels are
shares valued at six times base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and three times base salary for other executive
officers.
Our named executive officers own a substantial amount of the company™s stock, which ownership levels often
significantly exceed their ownership guidelines. The table below sets forth the dollar stock ownership guidelines
applicable to each of our named executive officers, based on 2015 salary amounts, as well as the actual share
ownership of each named executive officer, in both shares and in dollar value, as of February 1, 2016.
$7,800,000 (6x base salary)729,945$29,051,81122.3x
$2,250,000 (3x base salary)364,176$14,494,20519.3x
$1,425,000 (3x base salary)38,937$1,549,6933.3x
$1,575,000 (3x base salary)51,056$2,032,0293.9x
$1,875,000 (3x base salary)172,715$6,874,05711.0x
$1,650,000 (3x base salary)79,400$3,160,1205.7x
Unvested equity awards are not included in the above table and are not counted in determining whether an executive
officer has satisfied the company stock ownership requirements. Significantly, our guidelines require that executive
officers retain 100% of the after-tax value of any vested stock award or exercised option until the ownership level is
met.
Board of Directors™ Response
Multiple of
Dollar Value ofBase
SharesSharesSalary
Named Executive Officer
Ownership GuidelineOwnedOwnedOwned
Richard K. Davis
Andrew Cecere
Kathleen A. Rogers
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Jeffry H. von Gillern
66
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
17FEB201623363432
Proposal 5 Š Shareholder Proposal Regarding Executive Stock Retention
Sensible stock ownership requirements provide executives with the ability to realize value when they drive increases in
shareholder value, and to diversify their personal financial portfolios over time. The policy proposed does not strike an
appropriate balance between protecting shareholder interests and allowing executives to prudently manage their
personal financial affairs. Our Board has carefully considered the appropriateness of the stock ownership levels required
of our executive officers, and believes that the current guidelines provide a meaningful connection between our most
senior employees™ long-term interests and those of our other shareholders such that no changes are necessary.
U.S. Bancorp™s executive compensation program effectively links executive pay with the company™s long-term
performance.
Our stock ownership requirements are set within the context of our entire executive compensation program, which
emphasizes alignment of executives™ incentives with those of our shareholders in other ways as well. A high percentage
of our executive officers™ compensation is dependent on our company™s financial performance. As discussed in the
‚‚Compensation Discussion and Analysis™™ section of the proxy statement, 89% of our Chief Executive Officer™s total
direct compensation in 2015 was at risk, as was 84% of our other named executive officers™ total direct compensation
for 2015 (on an average basis). A significant portion of our executives™ compensation comes in the form of performance-
based equity awards. Seventy-five percent of each executive™s long-term incentive pay is granted in the form of
performance-based restricted stock units that are earned based on the company™s achievement of ROE (or return on
average common equity) targets, which directly measure the return generated by the company on its shareholders™
investment. The stock options our executives receive only have value to the extent the price of U.S. Bancorp stock on
the exercise date exceeds the stock price on the grant date. All of our executive officers™ equity awards vest ratably
over four years to foster a long-term perspective.
The proponent suggests that the interests of our executive officers are not sufficiently aligned with shareholder interests.
This suggestion ignores the company™s outstanding financial performance and the strong creation of shareholder value
under its existing management team. In consideration of the extent to which U.S. Bancorp™s executive compensation
program as a whole creates incentives for long-term financial performance and the specific requirement to retain all net
shares until a significant threshold level is achieved, the Board does not believe that additional mechanisms are
necessary to link executive pay and performance.
Highly concentrated stock ownership may encourage our executive officers to assume excessive risk or to be
overly risk averse.
Requiring executive officers to hold at least 75 percent of net after-tax shares acquired through our equity compensation
programs prior to retirement or departure would likely result in our executive officers holding a disproportionate
concentration of their assets in U.S. Bancorp stock relative to their total personal assets. This concentration could
influence executive decision making and, in certain circumstances, could encourage our senior executives to cause the
company to assume excessive risk or to be excessively risk averse, to the detriment of the company and its other
shareholders.
The proposed stock retention policy may hinder U.S. Bancorp™s ability to attract and retain executive talent.
A policy requiring senior executives to retain a more significant portion of their equity awards until retirement or
termination of employment could diminish our ability to attract and retain the talented executives who are critical to our
long-term success. Requiring executives to hold onto shares in excess of what is demanded by prevailing market
practice could diminish the value of equity compensation in their eyes and motivate them to leave the company earlier
than they otherwise would have in order to realize the compensation™s value. Our Board believes that our stock
ownership guidelines strike the right balance between making certain that our executives are invested in the long-term
performance of U.S. Bancorp™s stock and ensuring that the company can attract and retain talented executives.
U.S. Bancorp™s executive officers are already prohibited from hedging their shares of U.S. Bancorp stock.
U.S. Bancorp™s Insider Trading Policy prohibits executive officers from engaging in any hedging or monetization
transaction that would allow the executive to continue to own the company™s securities without the full risks and
rewards of ownership. This anti-hedging prohibition is more robust than the prohibition proposed in the shareholder
proposal because the current policy is not limited to shares acquired through U.S. Bancorp™s equity compensation
programs, but instead applies to all U.S. Bancorp securities held by the executive officer.
AGAINST
The Board of Directors recommends that you vote ‚‚AGAINST™™ this proposal seeking the adoption of a
policy requiring senior executives to retain a significant percentage of shares acquired as equity
compensation. Proxies will be voted against the proposal unless you vote in favor of it.
67
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management
The following table shows how many shares of our common stock were beneficially owned as of February 1, 2016, by
each current director and director nominee, each of the NEOs, all of our directors and executive officers as a group, and
each person who is known by us to beneficially own more than 5% of our voting securities.
Unless otherwise noted, the shareholders listed in the table have sole voting and investment power with respect to the
shares of common stock owned by them. None of the shares beneficially owned by our directors or executive officers
are subject to any pledge, in accordance with our company policy prohibiting them from pledging or hedging our
common stock.
1,000
Š
61,682
Š
62,682
*
Š
Š
3,876
Š
3,876
*
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
364,1761,865,357
89,080
Š2,318,613
*
Š35,845
64,28324,797
124,925
*
729,9453,767,497147,27471,6934,716,409
*
Š
Š
10,692
Š
10,692
*
Š
Š
19,750
Š
19,750
*
Š
Š
19,749
Š
19,749
*
84,21735,156
67,78722,785
209,945
*
10,24337,015
68,96721,790
138,015
*
Š
Š
3,876
Š
3,876
*
306,33133,088
67,93711,836
419,192
*
Š11,029
60,35370,326
141,708
*
172,715174,493
33,404
Š
380,612
*
51,056655,600
49,639
Š
756,295
*
44,93911,314
7,201
Š
63,454
*
3,02733,088
75,336
Š
111,451
*
17,51211,029
67,58453,748
149,873
*
79,400152,524
27,302
Š
259,226
*
400
Š
8,6256,198
15,223
*
2,280,6348,086,4071,088,066300,82111,755,928
*
Options ExercisableRestricted
Percent of
Name of BeneficialCommonWithin 60 Days ofStock
Deferred
Common Stock
Owner
Stock
1
February 1, 2016Units
2
Compensation
3
TotalOutstanding
Douglas M. Baker, Jr.
Warner L. Baxter
Marc N. Casper
Andrew Cecere
Arthur D. Collins, Jr.
Richard K. Davis
Kimberly J. Harris
Roland A.
Hernandez
Doreen Woo Ho
Joel W. Johnson
Olivia F. Kirtley
Karen S. Lynch
David B. O™Maley
O™dell M. Owens,
M.D., M.P.H.
P.W. (Bill) Parker
Richard B. Payne, Jr.
Kathleen A. Rogers
Craig D. Schnuck
Patrick T. Stokes
Jeffry H. von Gillern
Scott W. Wine
All directors and
executive officers
as a group (31
persons)
68
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
114,576,161
Š
Š
Š114,576,1616.55%
103,333,840
Š
Š
Š103,333,8405.91%
92,732,849
Š
Š
Š92,732,8495.30%
88,984,159
Š
Š
Š88,984,1595.09%
Indicates less than 1%.
Includes the following shares beneficially owned by the indicated director or executive officer:

For Mr. Cecere, includes 341 shares held by Mr. Cecere™s wife, as to which Mr. Cecere has no voting or investment
power; and 10,667 shares held in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan;

For Mr. Davis, includes 195,504 shares held in a trust of which Mr. Davis™s wife is trustee and as to which Mr. Davis has
no voting or investment power; and 17,942 shares held in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan;

For Mr. Johnson, includes 76,738 shares held in trusts of which Mr. Johnson is trustee and 126 shares held by an
entity affiliated with Mr. Johnson;

For Mr. Payne, includes 2,360 shares held in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan and 2,231 shares held in an IRA
account;

For Ms. Rogers, includes 11 shares held in a trust in which Ms. Rogers is trustee, 6,780 shares held in the U.S. Bank
401(k) Savings Plan and 6,002 shares of restricted stock subject to future vesting conditions;

For Mr. Stokes, includes 390 shares held in a trust for which Mr. Stokes is trustee;

For Mr. von Gillern, includes 13,025 shares held in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan;

For Mr. Wine, includes 400 shares held in trusts of which Mr. Wine is trustee; and

For all executive officers as a group, includes 101,228 shares held in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan for the
accounts of certain executive officers; and 35,374 shares of restricted stock granted to certain executive officers that
are subject to future vesting conditions.
Restricted stock units (including performance-based restricted stock units held by our executive officers) are distributable in
an equivalent number of shares of our common stock upon settlement. Restricted stock units granted to our officers are
settled as they vest, and restricted stock units granted to our directors are immediately vested but do not settle until the
director ceases to serve on the Board (except that all units are forfeited if the director is removed by our shareholders for
cause). The number of restricted stock units that are currently vested, or that vest within 60 days of February 1, 2016, is
included in this column.
Certain of our directors and officers have deferred cash compensation under our deferred compensation plans. Some of
these deferred amounts will be paid out in shares of our common stock upon the director™s or officer™s retirement or other
termination of employment or service with U.S. Bancorp. The directors and officers have no voting or investment power as
to these shares. The number of shares to which the directors and officers would have been entitled had their employment or
service with U.S. Bancorp been terminated as of February 1, 2016, is included in this column.
Based on Amendment No. 6 to Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on January 27, 2016, by BlackRock, Inc., on behalf of
itself and certain of its subsidiaries. BlackRock, Inc. has sole voting power over 99,033,722 shares, sole dispositive power
over 114,561,931 shares, and shared voting and dispositive powers over 14,230 shares. The address for BlackRock is 55
East 52nd Street, New York, NY 10055.
Options ExercisableRestricted
Percent of
Name of BeneficialCommonWithin 60 Days ofStock
Deferred
Common Stock
Owner
Stock
1
February 1, 2016Units
2
Compensation
3
TotalOutstanding
BlackRock, Inc.
4
Warren E. Buffett
Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.
5
The Vanguard
Group
6
FMR LLC
7
*
1.Common Stock
2.Restricted Stock Units
3.Deferred Compensation
4.BlackRock, Inc.
69
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
Based on Amendment No. 2 to Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 16, 2016, by Warren E. Buffett, Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., a holding company which Mr. Buffett may be deemed to control, and other members of the filing group of
which none beneficially owns more than 5% of the outstanding shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock. Mr. Buffett has sole
voting and dispositive powers over 884,230 shares, and shared voting and dispositive powers over 102,449,610 shares.
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has sole voting and dispositive powers over no shares, and shared voting and dispositive powers
over 102,449,610 shares. The address for each of Mr. Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway is 3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, NE
68131.
Based on Amendment No. 1 to Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 11, 2016, by The Vanguard Group, on behalf
of itself and certain of its subsidiaries. The Vanguard Group has sole voting power over 3,085,183 shares, shared voting
power over 176,400 shares, sole dispositive power over 89,448,693 shares and shared dispositive power over
3,284,156 shares. Vanguard Fiduciary Trust Company and Vanguard Investments Australia, Ltd., wholly-owned subsidiaries
of The Vanguard Group, beneficially own 2,555,295 and 1,258,749 shares, respectively. The address for The Vanguard
Group is 100 Vanguard Boulevard, Malvern, PA 19355.
Based on Amendment No. 2 to Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 12, 2016, by FMR LLC, Abigail P. Johnson,
Director, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of FMR LLC, and the following subsidiaries of FMR LLC:
FIAM LLC; Fidelity (Canada) Asset Management ULC; Fidelity Institutional Asset Management Trust Company; Fidelity
Management Trust Company, Inc.; FMR Co., Inc.; and Strategic Advisers, Inc. FMR LLC has sole voting power over
7,953,183 shares and sole dispositive power over 88,984,159 shares. The address for FMR LLC is 245 Summer Street,
Boston, MA 02210.
Questions and Answers About the Annual Meeting and Voting
Why did I receive the proxy materials?
We have furnished the proxy materials to you over the Internet or mailed you a printed copy of these materials because
the Board of Directors of U.S. Bancorp is soliciting your proxy to vote your shares of our common stock at the annual
meeting of shareholders to be held on April 19, 2016, or at any adjournments or postponements of the meeting.
What is a proxy?
It is your designation of another person to vote stock you own. That other person is called a proxy. If you designate
someone as your proxy in a written document, that document also is called a proxy or a proxy card. When you
designate a proxy, you also may direct the proxy how to vote your shares. We refer to this as your ‚‚proxy vote.™™ Our
Board has designated Richard K. Davis and James L. Chosy, two of our executive officers, as the proxies to cast the
votes of our shareholders at our 2016 annual meeting of shareholders.
5.Warren E. Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
6.The Vanguard Group
7.FMR LLC
70
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Questions and Answers About the Annual Meeting and Voting
What is the purpose of the meeting?
At our annual meeting, shareholders will act upon the matters outlined in the notice of annual meeting of shareholders
and described in this proxy statement. Management will also report on our performance during the last fiscal year and,
once the business of the annual meeting is concluded, respond to questions from shareholders.
Why did I receive a notice regarding the Internet availability of proxy materials instead of a printed copy of the
proxy materials?
In accordance with rules adopted by the SEC, we are furnishing our proxy materials to our shareholders primarily over
the Internet instead of mailing printed copies of those materials to each shareholder. By doing so, we reduce costs and
lessen the environmental impact of our annual meeting. On or about March 8, 2016, we mailed a notice of Internet
availability of the proxy materials to most of our shareholders who had not previously requested printed materials. The
notice contains instructions about how to access our proxy materials and vote online. This notice is not a proxy card
and cannot be used to vote your shares. If you would like to receive a paper copy of our proxy materials, please follow
the instructions on the notice.
We provided some of our shareholders, including shareholders who have previously requested to receive paper copies
of the proxy materials and some of our shareholders who are participants in our benefit plans, with paper copies of the
proxy materials instead of a notice. If you received paper copies of the notice or proxy materials, we encourage you to
sign up to receive all of your future proxy materials electronically, as described under ‚‚How can I receive my proxy
materials by e-mail in the future?™™ below.
Who is entitled to vote at the meeting?
The Board has set February 23, 2016, as the record date for the annual meeting. If you were a shareholder of record at
the close of business on February 23, 2016, you are entitled to vote at the meeting. As of the record date,
1,735,916,083 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding and, therefore, eligible to vote at the meeting.
What are my voting rights?
Holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share. Therefore, a total of 1,735,916,083 votes are entitled to
be cast at the meeting. There is no cumulative voting.
How can I access the proxy materials and vote my shares?
The instructions for accessing the proxy materials and voting can be found in the information you received either
by mail or e-mail. Depending on how you received the proxy materials, you may vote by Internet, telephone or
mail. We encourage you to vote by Internet.

If you are a shareholder who received a notice by mail regarding the Internet availability of the proxy
materials: 
You may access the proxy materials and voting instructions over the Internet via the web address
provided in the notice. In order to access this material and vote, you will need the control number provided on
the notice you received in the mail. You may vote by following the instructions on the notice or on the
website.

If you are a shareholder who received an e-mail directing you to the proxy materials: 
You may access
the proxy materials and voting instructions over the Internet via the web address provided in the e-mail. In
order to access these materials and vote, you will need the control number provided in the e-mail. You may
vote by following the instructions in the e-mail or on the website.

If you are a shareholder who received the proxy materials by mail:
 You may vote your shares by following
the instructions provided on the proxy card or voting instruction form. If you vote by Internet or telephone,
you will need the control number provided on the proxy card or voting instruction form. If you vote by mail,
please complete, sign and date the proxy card or voting instruction form and mail it in the accompanying
pre-addressed envelope.
71
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Questions and Answers About the Annual Meeting and Voting
How many shares must be present to hold the meeting?
In accordance with our bylaws, shares equal to at least one-third of the voting power of our outstanding shares of
common stock as of the record date must be present at the meeting in order to hold the meeting and conduct
business. This is called a quorum. Your shares are counted as present at the meeting if:

you have properly submitted a proxy vote by Internet, telephone or mail, even if you abstain from voting on one
or more matters;

you are present and vote in person at the meeting; or

you hold your shares in street name (as discussed below) and you provide voting instructions to your broker,
bank, trust or other nominee or you do not provide voting instructions but your broker, bank, trust or other
nominee uses its discretionary authority to vote your shares on the ratification of the selection of our independent
auditor.
What is the difference between a shareholder of record and a ‚‚street name™™ holder?
If your shares are registered directly in your name with our transfer agent, Computershare Investor Services, you are
considered the shareholder of record with respect to those shares.
If your shares are held in a stock brokerage account or by a bank, trust or other nominee, then the broker, bank, trust or
other nominee is considered to be the shareholder of record with respect to those shares. However, you still are
considered the beneficial owner of those shares and your shares are said to be held in ‚‚street name.™™ Street name
holders generally cannot vote their shares directly and must instead instruct the broker, bank, trust or other nominee
how to vote their shares using the voting instruction form provided by it.
How do I vote if my shares are held in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan?
If you hold any shares in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan, you are receiving, or being provided access to, the same
proxy materials as any other shareholder of record. However, your proxy vote will serve as voting instructions to the
plan trustee. Your voting instructions must be received at least five days prior to the annual meeting in order to count. In
accordance with the terms of the plan, the trustee will vote all of the shares held in the plan in the same proportion as
the actual proxy votes submitted by plan participants at least five days prior to the annual meeting.
Can I vote my shares in person at the meeting?
If you are a shareholder of record, you may vote your shares in person by completing a ballot at the meeting. Even if
you currently plan to attend the meeting, we recommend that you also submit your proxy as described above so that
your vote will be counted if you later decide not to attend the meeting.
If you are a street name holder, you may vote your shares in person at the meeting only if you obtain a signed letter or
other document from your broker, bank, trust or other nominee giving you the right to vote the shares at the meeting.
If you are a participant in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan, you may submit a proxy vote as described above, but you
may not vote your 401(k) Savings Plan shares in person at the meeting.
What if I am a shareholder of record and do not specify how I want my shares voted?
If you submit your proxy by Internet or submit a signed proxy card and do not specify how you want to vote your
shares, we will vote your shares in accordance with the recommendations of the Board. Our telephone voting
procedures do not permit you to submit your proxy vote by telephone without specifying how you want your shares
voted.
What if I hold my shares in street name and do not provide voting instructions?
If you hold your shares in street name and do not provide voting instructions, your broker, bank, trust or other nominee
has discretionary authority to vote your shares on the ratification of the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as our
independent auditor. However, in the absence of your specific instructions as to how to vote, your broker, bank, trust or
other nominee does not have discretionary authority to vote on any other proposal. It is important, therefore, that you
provide instructions to your broker, bank, trust or other nominee so that your vote with respect to the other proposals is
counted.
72
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Questions and Answers About the Annual Meeting and Voting
What vote is required and what is the effect of abstentions?
You may vote ‚‚FOR,™™ ‚‚AGAINST™™ or ‚‚ABSTAIN™™ for each nominee for the Board of Directors and on the other
proposals. The following table summarizes for each proposal the votes required for approval of the proposal and the
effect of voting ‚‚ABSTAIN.™™
Votes cast ‚‚FOR™™ exceed votes castNo effect
‚‚AGAINST™™
Majority of shares present and entitledSame effect as ‚‚AGAINST™™ vote
to vote
What does it mean if I receive more than one notice of Internet availability of proxy materials, proxy card, or
voting instruction form?
If you receive more than one notice of Internet availability of proxy materials or more than one set of paper proxy
materials, it means that you hold shares in more than one account. To ensure that all of your shares are voted, vote
separately for each notice of Internet availability of proxy materials, proxy card, and voting instruction form you receive.
Can I change my vote after submitting my proxy?
Yes. You may revoke your proxy and change your vote at any time before your proxy is voted at the annual meeting. If
you are a shareholder of record, you may revoke your proxy and change your vote by:

voting again over the Internet or by telephone by no later than 11:59 p.m., Eastern time, on April 18, 2016, or by
submitting a proxy card with a later date and returning it so that it is received by April 18, 2016; or

submitting written notice of revocation to our Corporate Secretary at the address shown on page 75 of this proxy
statement so that it is received by April 18, 2016.
Attending the meeting will not revoke your proxy unless you specifically request to revoke it or submit a ballot at the
meeting. To request an additional proxy card, or if you have any questions about the annual meeting or how to vote or
revoke your proxy, you should write to Investor Relations, U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, MN 55402 or
call 866.775.9668.
If you hold your shares in street name, contact your broker, bank, trust or other nominee regarding how to revoke your
proxy and change your vote. If you are a participant in the U.S. Bank 401(k) Savings Plan, you may revoke your proxy
and change your vote as described above, but only until 11:59 p.m., Eastern time, on April 14, 2016.
Will my vote be kept confidential?
Yes. We have procedures to ensure that all proxies, ballots and voting tabulations that identify shareholders are kept
permanently confidential, except as follows: to meet legal requirements, to assert claims for or defend claims against
our company, to allow authorized individuals to count and certify the results of the shareholder vote if a proxy
solicitation in opposition to the Board takes place, or to respond to shareholders who have written comments on proxy
cards or who have requested disclosure. We also have the voting tabulations performed by an independent third party.
Who will count the votes?
Representatives of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., our tabulation agent, will tabulate the votes and act as
independent inspectors of election.
How do I attend the meeting?
You are entitled to attend the annual meeting only if you were, or you hold a valid legal proxy naming you to act for, one
of our shareholders on the record date. Before we will admit you to the meeting, we must be able to confirm:

your identity by reviewing a valid form of photo identification, such as a driver™s license; and

that you were, or are validly acting for, a shareholder of record on the record date by:
Œ
verifying your name and stock ownership against our list of registered shareholders, if you are the record
holder of your shares;
Proposal
Votes Required for Approval
Effect of ‚‚ABSTAIN™™ Vote
Election of directors
Approval of all other proposals
73
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
Questions and Answers About the Annual Meeting and Voting
Œ
reviewing other evidence of your stock ownership, such as the notice of Internet availability that was mailed to
you or your most recent brokerage or bank statement, if you hold your shares in street name; or
Œ
reviewing a written proxy that shows your name and is signed by the shareholder you are representing, in
which case either the shareholder must be a registered shareholder of record or you must have a brokerage or
bank statement for that shareholder as described above.
Please let us know if you plan to attend the meeting by responding affirmatively when prompted during Internet or
telephone voting or by marking the attendance box on your proxy card.
At the entrance to the meeting, we will verify that your name appears in our stock records, or will inspect your
brokerage or bank statement as your proof of ownership or any written proxy you present as the representative of a
shareholder. We will decide in our sole discretion whether the documentation you present for admission to the meeting
meets the requirements described above. The admission of persons who are guests of shareholders is subject to the
discretion of management. Anyone needing special assistance should call Investor Relations at 866.775.9668. Please
allow ample time for the admission procedures described above.
If you are not able to attend the meeting, you will still be able to access an audio replay of the management
presentation given at the meeting from our website. You can find instructions on how to access the replay and the
presentation materials on our website at www.usbank.com by clicking on ‚‚About U.S. Bank™™ and then ‚‚Webcasts &
Presentations.™™
Who pays for the cost of proxy preparation and solicitation?
We pay for the cost of proxy preparation and solicitation, including the reasonable charges and expenses of brokerage
firms, banks, trusts or other nominees for forwarding proxy materials to street name holders. We have retained Alliance
Advisors, LLC, to assist in the solicitation of proxies for the annual meeting for a fee of approximately $15,000, plus
associated costs and expenses.
We are soliciting proxies primarily by mail. In addition, our directors, officers and employees may solicit proxies by
telephone, facsimile, e-mail or in person. They will not receive any additional compensation for these activities.
Does the company ‚‚household™™ annual meeting materials?
The SEC rules allow a single copy of the notice of Internet availability of proxy materials or proxy statement and annual
report to be delivered to multiple shareholders sharing the same address and last name, or who we reasonably believe
are members of the same family, and who consent to receive a single copy of these materials in a manner provided by
these rules. This practice is referred to as ‚‚householding.™™ Although we do not household for our registered
shareholders, we understand that some brokers, banks, trusts and other nominees household U.S. Bancorp notices of
Internet availability of proxy materials or proxy statements and annual reports, delivering a single copy of each to
multiple shareholders sharing an address unless contrary instructions have been received from the affected
shareholders. Once you have received notice from your broker, bank, trust or other nominee that they will be
householding materials to your address, householding will continue until you are notified otherwise or until you revoke
your consent. If, at any time, you no longer wish to participate in householding and would prefer to receive a separate
copy of our notice of Internet availability of proxy materials or proxy statement or annual report, or if you are receiving
multiple copies of any of these documents and wish to receive only one, please notify your broker, bank, trust or other
nominee. We will deliver promptly upon written or oral request a separate copy of our notice of Internet availability of
proxy materials, proxy statement and/or our annual report to a shareholder at a shared address to which a single copy
was delivered. For copies of any of these documents, shareholders should write to Investor Relations, U.S. Bancorp,
BC-MN-H23K, 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, or call 866.775.9668.
How can I receive my proxy materials by e-mail in the future?
Instead of receiving future paper copies of the notice of Internet availability of proxy materials or our proxy materials by
mail, you can elect to receive an e-mail with links to these documents, your control number and instructions for voting
over the Internet. Opting to receive your proxy materials by e-mail will save the cost of producing and mailing
documents to you and will also help conserve environmental resources. Your e-mail address will be kept separate from
any other company operations and will be used for no other purpose.
74
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363975
Questions and Answers About the Annual Meeting and Voting
If we mailed you a notice of Internet availability of proxy materials or a printed copy of our proxy statement and annual
report and you would like to sign up to receive these materials by e-mail in the future, you can choose this option by:

following the instructions provided on your proxy card or voting instruction form if you received a paper copy of
the proxy materials;

following the instructions provided when you vote over the Internet; or

going to 
http://enroll.icsdelivery.com/usb
 and following the instructions provided.
You may revoke this request at any time by following the instructions at 
http://enroll.icsdelivery.com/usb
. Your election is
permanent unless you revoke it later.
Other Matters
If you received a paper copy of the proxy materials, our 2015 Annual Report to Shareholders, including financial
statements for the year ended December 31, 2015, accompanies this proxy statement. The 2015 Annual Report to
Shareholders is also available on our website at www.usbank.com by clicking on ‚‚About U.S. Bank™™ and then ‚‚Annual
Report.™™ Copies of our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is on file with the SEC, are available to any
shareholder who submits a request in writing to Investor Relations, U.S. Bancorp, BC-MN-H23K, 800 Nicollet Mall,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402. Copies of any exhibits to the Form 10-K are also available upon written request and
payment of a fee covering our reasonable expenses in furnishing the exhibits.
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires our executive officers and directors to file initial reports of ownership and
reports of changes in ownership of our securities with the SEC. Executive officers and directors are required to furnish
us with copies of these reports. Based solely on a review of the Section 16(a) reports furnished to us with respect to
2015 and written representations from the executive officers and directors, we believe that all Section 16(a) filing
requirements applicable to our executive officers and directors during 2015 were satisfied except that Joel W. Johnson
was late in filing two Forms 4. One of the transactions was made in November 2014 and reported in April 2015, and the
other was made in October 2015 and reported in November 2015.
Shareholders or any other interested party may communicate with our Board of Directors by sending a letter addressed
to our Board of Directors, non-management directors, Lead Director or specified individual directors to:
The Office of the Corporate Secretary
U.S. Bancorp
BC-MN-H23I
800 Nicollet Mall
Minneapolis, MN 55402
Any such letters will be delivered to the Lead Director, or to a specified director if so addressed. Letters relating to
accounting matters will also be delivered to our chief risk officer for handling in accordance with the Audit Committee™s
policy on investigation of complaints relating to accounting matters.
Annual Report to Shareholders and Form 10-K
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance
Contacting U.S. Bancorp™s Board of Directors
75
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
17FEB201623363840
19FEB201617080112
24FEB201601424695
Other Matters
Submitting a Shareholder Proposal for Inclusion in Our Proxy Statement
In order for a shareholder proposal to be considered for inclusion in our proxy statement for the 2017 annual meeting of
shareholders, we must receive the written proposal at our principal executive offices at U.S. Bancorp, BC-MN-H23I,
800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, Attention: Corporate Secretary, on or before November 8, 2016. The
proposal must comply with SEC regulations regarding the inclusion of shareholder proposals in company-sponsored
proxy materials.
Nominating a Director for Inclusion in Our Proxy Statement (Proxy Access Nominees)
A shareholder or group of up to 20 shareholders that has held at least 3% of our company™s stock for at least three
years is able to submit director nominees for up to 20% of the Board (but at least two directors) for inclusion in our
proxy statement if the shareowner(s) and nominee(s) satisfy the requirements specified in our bylaws and notice is
received between 150 and 120 days before the anniversary of the date the proxy statement for the prior year™s annual
meeting was released to shareholders. In order for a nominee to be considered for inclusion in our proxy statement for
the 2017 annual meeting of shareholders, we must receive written notice of the nomination at our principal executive
offices at U.S. Bancorp, BC-MN-H23I , 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota, Attention: Corporate Secretary, no
earlier than October 9, 2016, and no later than November 8, 2016. The notice must contain the specific information
required by our bylaws. You can find a copy of our bylaws on our website at www.usbank.com by clicking on ‚‚About
U.S. Bank™™ and then ‚‚Corporate Governance™™ and then ‚‚Restated Bylaws.™™
Other Shareholder Proposals and Director Nominations (Advance Notice Provisions)
Our bylaws provide that a shareholder may nominate from the floor a director for election at the annual meeting if
proper written notice is received by the Corporate Secretary of U.S. Bancorp at our principal executive offices in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, at least 120 days in advance of the anniversary of the prior year™s annual meeting. A
shareholder may present from the floor a proposal other than a director nomination if proper written notice is received
by the Corporate Secretary at least 120 days in advance of the anniversary of the date the proxy statement for the prior
year™s annual meeting was released to shareholders. For the 2017 annual meeting of shareholders, notices of director
nominations and shareholder proposals to be made from the floor must be received on or before December 20, 2016,
and November 8, 2016, respectively. The notice must contain the specific information required by our bylaws. You can
find a copy of our bylaws on our website at www.usbank.com by clicking on ‚‚About U.S. Bank™™ and then ‚‚Corporate
Governance™™ and then ‚‚Restated Bylaws.™™
Shareholder proposals and director nominations for which notice is received by us after November 8, 2016, and
December 20, 2016, respectively, may not be presented in any manner at the 2017 annual meeting.
We do not know of any other matters that may be presented for consideration at the annual meeting. If any other
business does properly come before the annual meeting, the persons named as proxies above under the heading
‚‚Questions and Answers About the Annual Meeting and Voting Š What is a proxy?™™ will vote as they deem in the best
interests of U.S. Bancorp.
James L. Chosy
Secretary
Dated: March 8, 2016
Deadlines for Submitting Proposals and Nominating Directors for 2017 Annual Meeting
Other Matters for Consideration
76
U.S. Bancorp 2016 Proxy Statement
(This page has been left blank intentionally.)
(This page has been left blank intentionally.)
26FEB201601023062Sheraton Denver Downtown HotelGrand Ballroom
1550 Court PlaceDenver, CO 80202
PPPPPPPPPWalnut St.
22nd St.Park Ave. W
E 18th Ave.
E 19th Ave.
E 20th Ave.
Blake St.Market St.Welton St.
California St.Curtis St.Arapahoe St.
Lawrence St.Larimer St.Stout St.Champa St.E 17th Ave.
BroadwayLincoln St.E 16th Ave.
20th St.Wewatta St.
Wynkoop St.Wazee St.
19th St.18th St.17th St.Auraia Pkwy.
Glenarm Pl.Tremont Pl.
Court Pl.Cleveland Pl.Speer Blvd.Speer Blvd.Speer Blvd.15th St.16th St.14th St.257070Sheraton HotelParkingPNorthANNUAL MEETING LOCATION
        P
       C
  Gro
w
     Go
  Frien
         
    Idea
         G
       S
       F
        K
At U.S. Bank, we invest our time, resources and passion 
to build and support vibrant communities that allow every 
person to work toward their possible. 
We make Community Possible through community 
investments focused on Work, Home and Play.
Work, Home and Play are the building blocks of all 
thriving communities where all things are possible – stable 
employment, a safe place to call home and a community 
connected through culture, recreation and play. We want 

We Make Work Possible
 by supporting organizations that 
help small businesses thrive, help people succeed in the 
workforce and gain gr, and provide 
pathways to higher education. 
We Make Home Possible
 by supporting efforts that 
connect individuals and families with sustainable housing 
opportunities. 
We Make Play Possible
 by investing in community programs 
that support ways for children and adults to play and create in 
venues across the country. 
fth largest commercial bank in the United 
States and we embrace our responsibility as a community 
leader and helping everyone make possible happen.
Community
Possible
