  BMO FINANCIAL GROUP 
196
TH ANNUAL REPORT 2013 
  ’
’  
 ’
’ 
  Lillian Ishak, Private Banking, Montreal, QC 
All of us expect 
great things. 
But it takes a true meeting of minds 
       to bring big plans to life –

  to find opportunities that spark action

                   and inspire change.
  The key is to add, not take away.
       To grow the value of what we do 

by creating value for others.
     And to meet their 
  
  great expectations
    by expecting as much from ourselves. 
Business Review 
2 BMO at a Glance 
4 Our Strategic Priorities 

6 Chairman s Message 

7 Chief Executive Officer s  
 Message 
11 Senior Leadership Team 

12 Great Expectations 

20 Corporate Governance 

22 Board of Directors 
Financial Review 
23 CFO’s Foreword to the Financial Review 

24 Financial Performance and Condition at a Glance 

26 Management s Discussion and Analysis 

104 Supplemental Information 

122 Statement of Management s Responsibility for
 Financial Information 
123 Independent Auditors’ Report of Registered
 Public Accounting Firm 
124 Report of Independent Registered Public
 Accounting Firm 
125 Consolidated Financial Statements 
130 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
Resources and Directories 
189 Principal Subsidiaries 

190 Glossary of Financial Terms 

192 Where to Find More Information 

IBC Shareholder Information 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
  3                                                          BMO AT A GLANCE 
Delivering on Our/ 
Strategic Priorities /
2013 Performance 
Net Income 
$4.2
 billion 
Adjusted $4.3 billion 
Reported net income rose by 1%. Adjusted 
net income increased $0.2 billion or 5%. 
The bank achieved record revenue, net income 
and earnings per share. 
P 35 
Revenue 
$16.3
 billion 
Adjusted $15.6 billion 
Reported revenue rose by 1%. Adjusted revenue 
increased $0.5 billion or 3%. The increase 
was primarily due to revenue growth in Wealth 
Management, BMO Capital Markets and 

Canadian P&C. 
P 38 Return on Equity (ROE) 
14.9
% Adjusted 15.0% 
Reported ROE was 15.9% and adjusted ROE 
was 15.5% in 2012. There was an increase in 
reported and adjusted earnings available 

to common shareholders and higher average 

common shareholders’ equity. 
P 36 Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio 
9.9
% Strong capital position – Our Basel III Common 
Equity Tier 1 Ratio of 9.9% is strong and in excess 
of regulatory requirements. 
P 61 
2  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Financial Snapshot/ Reporte
d Adj
uste
d 1 As at or for the year ended October 3
1 (Canadian 
$ in millions, except as noted) 
2013 16,263 589 10,297 4,248 6.26 14.9% 0.2% 9.9% 1,854 596 834 1,094 (130) 4,248 2012 2012 Revenue 
(p 38) 
16,130 15,067 Provision for credit losses 
(p 42) 
765 471 Non-interest expense 
(p 43) 
10,238 9,513 Net income 
(p 35) 
4,189 4,092 Earnings per share 
Œ diluted ($) 
(p 35
) 6.15 6.00 Return on equity 
(p 36
) 15.9% 15.5% Operatin
g levera
ge (p 43) 
(1.4)% (2.8)% Basel III Common Equity 
Tier 1 Rati
o2 (p 61) 
8.7% 8.7% Net Income by Segmen
t3 Canadian P&C 
(p 47) 
1,775 1,785 U.S.
 P&C (p 50) 
580 644 Wealth Management 
(p 53) 
524 545 BMO Capital Markets 
(p 56
) 1,021 1,022 Corporate
 Services
4 (p 59
) 289 96 Net income 
(p 35) 
4,189 4,092 1 Adjuste
d resu
lts are non-GAAP an
d are 
discusse
d in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
Management assesses performance on a GAAP basis and on an adjusted basis and considers both 
to be useful in the assessment of underlying business performance. Presenting results on both 
bases provides readers with an enhanced understanding of how management assesses results
. 2 Effective in 2013, regulatory capital requirements for BMO are determined on a Basel III basis. 
In 2012, BMO
’s Basel III capital ratios were calculated on a pro-forma basis
. 3 Certain 
prior-
year data has been reclassified to conform with the current 
year’s 
presentation. 
See pages 44 and 45. 
4 Corporate 
Services, including Technology and Operations
. 2013 15,572 359 9,826 4,276 6.30 15.0% 0.1% 9.9% 1,864 646 861 1,096 (191) 4,276 Bank of Montreal uses a unified branding approach that links the organization’s member companies 

under the brand “BMO Financial Group”. Inf
ormation about the interc
orporate relationships among Bank of Montreal and its principal subsidiaries is pr
ovided on page 189, which page is incorporated 
herein by reference. These subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of the state, province or 

country in which their head or principal office is located with the exception of: BMO Harris Financial 

Advisors, Inc., BMO (US) Lending, LLC, BMO Global Capital Solutions, Inc., BMO Capital Markets Corp., 

BMO Harris Financing, Inc., BMO Financial Corp., BMO Asset Management Corp., psps Holdings, LLC, 

and BMO Capital Markets GKST Inc., each of which is incorporated in Delaware. 
Who We Are/ 
BMO Financial Grou
p 196th Annual Re
port 2013 3 Core footprint Other locations: Wealth Management U.S. Personal and Commercial BMO Capital Markets BC YT NT AB SK ON QC MB NL PE NB NS NU UT CO TX WI MN FL MOKS NE GA VA NY MA WA OR CA IN IL AZ Established in 1817, BMO Financial Group is a highly diversified financial services provider based in North America with 
total assets of $537 billion and approximately 45,500 employees. BMO provides a broad range of retail banking, wealth 
management and investment banking products and services to more than 12 million customers and conducts business 
through three operating groups: Personal and Commercial Banking, Wealth Management and BMO Capital Markets. 
Our Strategic Footprint 
BMO’s strategic footprint is anchored by our business 
in the heartland of the continental economy. Our three 
operating groups serve individuals, businesses, governments 
and corporate customers right across Canada and in six 

U.S. Midwest states – Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, 

Missouri and Kansas – as well as in other select locations 

in the United States. 
Our significant presence in North America is bolstered by 

operations in select global markets, including Europe and 

Asia, allowing us to provide our North American customers 

with access to economies and markets around the world, 

and our customers from other countries with access to 

North America. 4  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
  5            Our Strategic Priorities; 
1 2 3 4 5 Achieve industry-leading 
customer loyalty by delivering 

on our brand promise. 
Enhance productivity to 
drive performance and 

shareholder value. 
Leverage our consolidated 
North American platform to 

deliver quality earnings growth. 
Expand strategically in 
select global markets to 

create future growth. 
Ensure our strength in risk 
management underpins everything 

we do for our customers. 
4  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013  
5           CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 
Setting High Expectations/ 
The Board of Directors is pleased with BMO’s results and is focused on the year ahead.< 
J. Robert S. Prichard 
Chairman of the Board 
Your bank has performed well over the past year. All of 
us who are privileged to serve on the Board of Directors are 

pleased with the results and confident about what can be 

accomplished in the year ahead. 
BMO achieved record revenue, record net income and 
record earnings per share in 2013. There was an attractive 

return of capital to common shareholders – over 60% of 

earnings – through the combination of dividends and share 

buybacks under the Normal Course Issuer Bid. And our 

one-year total 
shareholder return – share price appreciation 
and dividends – led the Canadian banks. 
The bank’s performance reflects the dedication and 

commitment of a talented and motivated team of 

employees led by a strong and experienced management 

group. In this regard, I want to acknowledge our CEO, 

Bill Downe, for his leadership and commitment. His belief 

that BMO’s success depends on the success of customers 

continues to guide our strategy and is increasingly 

embedded in the culture of the bank. 
It’s also a pleasure to welcome Frank Techar to his new role 
as Chief Operating Officer, assuming overall responsibility 

for BMO’s Personal & Commercial and Wealth businesses, 

as well as the bank’s retail distribution channels, in both 

Canada and the United States. Strengthened operational 

capability across all of our businesses is now critical to 

future success in our industry as the pace of change 

quickens and as regulation continues to intensify. Frank’s 

appointment strengthens our capacity to develop industry-

leading, cross-group capabilities that drive customer 
experience – at the right pace. Frank brings to his role an 

outstanding record of achievement and deep knowledge of 

our businesses and the opportunities we have to strengthen 

them. Together, Bill and Frank will be a formidable team 
leading the bank forward. 
We will work closely with Bill and the leadership team in 

a shared commitment to redefine and grow the company, 

work more efficiently for customers and capitalize on 

our scale in Canada, the United States and select markets 

worldwide. As we look forward to the year ahead, our 

focus will be on execution and performance as we take 

advantage of our strong businesses and platforms to 

deliver 
another year of superior returns. 
As your representatives, we will continue to strengthen 

our board and the way it works, and we will continue 

to work with management in a shared effort to enhance 

the diversity of the organization at all levels. The board is 

performing well, and I thank my fellow directors for their 

many valued contributions to our progress. 
Thank you for your confidence in our company during the 

past year. I hope you will continue to stand with BMO as 

we enter a new year of achievement
. J. Robert S. Prichard 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’
S MESSAGE 
Expecting Change/ 
The new climate of heightened expectations is redefining incremental change. 
In banking, the impact promises to be dramatic, even disruptive – and, for those 

who are ready to take full advantage, highly rewarding.  
6  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
William A. Downe 
Chief Executive Officer, BMO Financial Group 
In the fiscal year just completed, BMO Financial Group 
posted record net income of $4.2 billion and increased 

retained earnings by just under $1.7 billion. We paid 

common share dividends of $1.9 billion and repurchased 

$675 million of common stock, effectively returning over 

60% of earnings to shareholders. And we contributed 

$1.7 billion in government levies and taxes. 
We completed the final, most significant elements of 
the conversion and integration of our 2011 acquisition 

of Marshall & Ilsley, capturing cumulative annual run-rate 

expense savings approaching $400 million. And we 

positioned the bank for future growth in our four core 

customer segments: personal banking, commercial banking, 

capital markets and wealth management. 
Most importantly, we made significant changes in the 
leadership structure of the bank to reduce layers of 
management and increase the proportion of our workforce 
in customer-facing roles. On November 1, 2013, most 

senior leaders in Canadian Personal and Commercial 

Banking assumed new roles designed to erase old 

boundaries and build customer loyalty. Our personal, 

commercial and wealth businesses throughout North 

America are now united under the leadership of Chief 

Operating Officer Frank Techar, who is overseeing a 

tightening of operating discipline and the acceleration 

of key priorities across the bank. 
More broadly, we have initiated longer-term measures 
to increase our responsiveness to evolving customer 

behaviour in a world where digital media and electronic 

commerce compel all companies to respond. The ways that 
customers are purchasing and consuming our products 

and services ar
e undergoing profound change. It’s 
something all of us at BMO identify with – and we’re 

investing in capabilities that recognize this shift. 
All four operating businesses are moving into 2014 with 
clear momentum and a great deal of confidence in our 

continued strong performance. We’re well positioned not 

only to meet expectations, but to anticipate and surpass 
them – which is why we’ve made this the central theme of 
our 196th annual report, a comprehensive review of the 

past year’s achievements and the decisive steps we’ve 

taken to advance BMO’s long-term strategy. 
The world is far different from the one we faced a decade 
ago. What people expect from a bank – from any business – 
is rapidly changing. As customers increasingly rely on mobile 
We work every day to help our customers have confidence in their 
financial decisions. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
7                       CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S MESSAGE 
Bill Downe at the BMO Company Meeting, May 2013. 
communications and instant access to information, 
they assume an immediate response to their transactional 

needs is always within reach. And as we in turn work 

alongside them to help bring their 
financial goals within 
reach, they want to see regular confirmation of the 

value we add. 
To deliver on these expectations, we’re asking more of 
ourselves – and more of our bank. 
There are big things going 
on in our industry. 
To say the changes underway around us are profound 
isn’t an overstatement. 
Profit models are changing across our industry, redefining 
the drivers of success. Simultaneous shifts in consumer 

behaviour and levels of regulatory engagement call for a 

broad change agenda that speaks to both the growth of 

revenue and the management of expense. There is a 

premium on superb execution, on innovation and on agility 

in delivering strong, consolidated financial performance. 
The pace of change is very rapid for us all. 

We take pride in the quality of the products and services 
BMO offers to customers – they are the financial building 

blocks of peace of mind: the control of spending, the 

growth of savings, the prudent use of credit and wise 

investment. We also care greatly about the way in which 

customers experience our bank: responsiveness and 
attention are what build trust and confidence for all customer 
8  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
segments. But in an era of rapid social, technological and 

economic change, we remain intensely focused on the 
reason 
why
 our customers continue to look for our guidance 

and support in controlling their financial futures. This is 

something that goes far beyond convenience and product 

features. It is why our bankers are so committed to the 

work they do. 
And we’re all confident it can be done better. 
We’re confident in our ability to thrive in this period of 
rapid change, because we’ve been steadily deepening our 

long-standing focus on customers, building the capabilities 

that grow loyalty and advocacy. 
The forces of change 
Against the broader backdrop of change, our efforts going 

forward will be shaped by two significant forces: 
•= Customers’ growing appetite for personalized service, 

in the moment.
 When someone has an experience that 

is simpler or perfectly tailored to their needs in one area 

of life, it influences their expectations in all other areas. 

In a modern world, customers’ expectations of their bank 

are being revised daily. 
•= An unprecedented level of regulatory engagement. 

Around the globe, governments and supervisors are 

introducing rigorous reporting requirements against 

constantly evolving standards. To continue meeting them, 

we must securely analyze highly complex data in real 

time while simplifying the work of the bankers who are 

responsible for understanding it. As we maintain this 

balance, we’re guided by a long-held belief that what 

matters more than any one rule is the larger reason 
behind it. Effective regulation ensures integrity and 

strengthens trust – principles that are vital to our success 

as a business and have been ingrained in our values for 

nearly 200 years. 
In some ways these forces seem to operate in opposition 

to one another. But we have confidence in our ability to 

respond fully in each of the market segments we serve, and 

to resolve the natural tension between simplifying the lives 

of our customers and maintaining confidence in a financial 

system that thrives in dealing with complex assignments. 
Intensifying our efforts 
In our four principal business groups we are meeting 

the challenge of rising expectations. We know that in 
making processes more efficient or services more accessible, 
we create more opportunities for our employees to have 

meaningful conversations with customers about their 
financial goals, delivering the unique value that differentiates 
our bank from our competitors. 
Personal and Commercial Banking
 finished the year 
with very good momentum, reflecting the competitiveness 
of BMO’s position in the markets we serve. In Canada, 
where our commercial lending market share is close to 

20%, we saw good balance growth: 12% in deposits 

and 11% in loans. In personal banking we again led the 

market with our emphasis on shorter-amortization, 

fixed-rate mortgages. 
In the U.S., mid-market commercial lending continued to 
gain strength while initiatives targeted toward small business 
customers gained traction. In U.S. retail banking we are 
accelerating the move to digital fulfillment and sales while 

increasing the investment in technology that supports 

efficiency and growth. 
BMO Capital Markets
 continued to demonstrate the simple 
truth that a quality book of business generates quality 

returns. We earned an 18.9% return on equity and were 

named Best Investment Bank in Canada by 
Global Finance 
magazine, and our strengthened U.S. business showed good 

growth and improving operating leverage. 
Wealth Management
 at BMO is distinguished by a superior 
offering across multiple dimensions, from private banking 

and asset management to brokerage and insurance. Market 

momentum, growth created by changing demographics 
and disciplined investment all support the accelerating 

expansion of our wealth business. 
Over the last decade, the bank has maintained strong 
momentum in the compound growth rate of both revenue 

and net income – 6% and 9%, respectively. With record 

reported results in 2013 and the highest Basel III common 

equity tier 1 ratio of the Canadian banks, BMO is well 

positioned to capitalize on the opportunities ahead. We are 

intensifying our pursuit of BMO’s five strategic priorities 

(outlined on page 4) by focusing specifically in these areas: 
•= Extending the digital experience across all channels. 

We’re developing strategies to further integrate the bank’s 

digital and physical channels – merging the online and 

mobile experience into our retail branch and ATM 

network. U.S. households actively using BMO mobile 

banking increased 60% in 2013. 
•= Simplifying and automating for greater efficiency. 
By exploring new ways to streamline processes, modernize 
platforms and embed cost controls, we’re adding to 
the productivity and efficiency gains realized over the past 
two years. 
•= Leveraging data insights to serve customers better. 

By enhancing the bank’s analytics capabilities, we’re 

sharpening our understanding of what customers 

are looking for, how they want to do business with 

us and, most importantly, why they need our help. 
At BMO’s Meadowvale Customer Contact Centre, we pay close attention 
to what’s on customers’ minds. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
9 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
                          
    CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S MESSAGE 
Deeper insights will make us even more effective in 
attracting new customers, assessing risk, and tailoring 

and cross-selling products and services. 
•= Continuing to build a strong, differentiated brand.
 As we 
extend a consistent identity and message throughout our 

expanded footprint, we reinforce existing relationships 

while fostering new ones. Across North America, millions 

of prospective customers are learning what BMO stands 

for – and why we stand out. 
We’re sharpening our 
understanding of what 

customers are looking 

for, how they want to 

do business with us and, 

most importantly, why 

they need our help. 
In embracing a future where constructive change is certain, 
we also recognize what’s not certain is how customers will 

respond to the contradictions of the coming decade. As people 

seek greater transparency and connectivity, their desire for 

security and privacy creates an opposite impulse. What we do 
know is that individuals and companies bring their business 

to our bank because o
f the trust built by our brand – our 
commitment to help them make better decisions with better 

information and have confidence in the decisions they make. 
The power of expectations 
The opportunity before us is to take everything BMO has been 

doing well, and do it better than ever. By ensuring the quality 

of what we provide, and by simplifying and accelerating 
how 
we deliver it, we can focus on 
why
 people choose to make us 

their financial partner. This is the next step in the realization of 
BMO’s brand promise. As customers see that we’re making their 
lives easier and helping them have confidence in their financial 

futures, we forge stronger, mutually rewarding relationships – 

which grow our customer base and increase market share. 

And as the value we deliver to customers continues to rise, 

the value we deliver to shareholders grows as well. 
The new climate of heightened expectations is redefining 
incremental change. In banking, the impact promises to be 

dramatic, even disruptive – and, for those who are ready to 

take full advantage, highly rewarding. By embracing change, 
we can influence its pace and help guide its course. Rather than 

wait to see where the market is going, BMO will be ahead of it, 

leading through innovation, supported by unrivalled
 customer 
loyalty and grounded in a long history of trust – trust that 

we’ve earned by always living up to expectations. 
William A. Downe 
Chief Executive Officer, BMO Financial Group 
Strong Momentum in 
Revenue Growth 
(Canadian $ in billions) 
9.3 16.3 10-year CAGR 6% 
04 05 0607
 08 09 10 11 12 13 2010 and prior period information based on CGAAP.; 
Ten-year CAGR based on CGAAP in 2003 and on IFRS in 2013.; 
10 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Senior Leadership Team 
From left to right: 
Jean-Michel Arès 
Chief Technology & Operations Officer, 

BMO Financial Group 
Barbara Muir 
Corporate 
Secretary, 

BMO Financial Group 
Thomas V. Milroy 
Group Head, ;

BMO Capital Markets; 
Frank Techar 
Chief Operating Officer, 

BMO Financial Group 
Richard Rudderham 
Chief Human Resources Officer, 

BMO Financial Group 
Joanna Rotenberg 
Chief Marketing Officer and Head of Strategy, 
BMO Financial Group 
Mark F. Furlong 
Group Head, U.S. Personal and Commercial ;

Banking and Chief Executive Officer, ;

BMO Harris Bank N.A.; 
Thomas E. Flynn 
Chief Financial Officer, 

BMO Financial Group 
William Downe 
Chief Executive Officer, 

BMO Financial Group 
Simon A. Fish 
General Counsel, 

BMO Financial Group 
Surjit Rajpal 
Chief Risk Officer, 

BMO Financial Group 
Gilles G. Ouellette 
Group Head, ;

Wealth Management; 
Carol Neal 
Chief Auditor, ;

BMO Financial Group; 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
1111 12  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
  13   The ideal A thriving 
A comfortable 
home. 
business. 
future. 
     Everyone has 
          great expectations.
And to bring tomorrow’s goals within <
reach, people expect a lot today.<
   Beginning with the confidence they 
need to make important choices.  
      This is what all of our 
  stakeholders ultimately expect.
  And it’s what we’re in      
         business to deliver. 
Dylan Reibling, interactive media innovator and artist-in>
residence at Christie Digital, received welcome support for 

his vision from BMO bankers at the Communitech Hub for 

high-tech entrepreneurs in Waterloo, ON. 
Business mix
1 Our diversiﬁed strategy once again 
drove BMO’s 2013 performance. 
Personal and 
Commercial 
57% BMO Capital Markets 
21% Canadian P&C $6,341 
U.S. P&C 
$2,937 
Wealth 
$3,454 
BMO CM 
$3,428 
Wealth Management 
22% (Graph figures in millions); 
1 Percentages determined ex
cluding results in C
orporate Services.; 
1 Leader in wealth 
BMO’s Canadian and U.S. private banks were both ranked 
best in the markets they serve by 
World Finance
 magazine 
in 2013. Over the past year, our wealth management 

businesses were recognized with 20 industry awards, 

evenly split between Canada and the United States. 
12  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Commercial strength 
North American commercial loan balances grew by 11% 

year over year as we continued to meet the needs of 
 businesses across our footprint. Commercial deposits were up 

12% in Canada, where we have the second largest market 
 share in business loans of $5 million and less. In the United 

States, core commercial and industrial lending has grown 

for eight consecutive quarters. 
Private and personal 
Meeting customers’ expectations can mean erasing 

boundaries. BMO’s personal and private banking teams have 

been successfully partnering where their businesses overlap. 

By being more responsive and efﬁ
 cient in serving both 
segments, we’re creating more value for shareholders.  
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
1314  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
  15    -’It starts with respecting 
        people’s intelligence. 
Proposing plans that reflect                            <
    how they think.<
      Always looking for ways <
                 to do things better.<
       Customers expect us to be 

    as insightful as they are in          deciding what really matters.
  It’s about 
great minds
       thinking alike, 

learning from 

   one another. 
Mike Bonner, Regional VP, Commercial Banking and Shaun 
Muldoon, co owner of Muldoon s Own Authentic Coffee in 

Mississauga, ON, share the belief that successful businesses 

are built on strong customer relationships. 
 Funds leader 
Sales of BMO Mutual Funds in Canada increased by a 
record 38% in 2013, well above the industry growth rate. 

Our deep understanding of customers’ investment goals 

has also fuelled BMO’s leadership in exchange traded funds 

(ETFs). Since launching our ETF business in 2009, we’ve 

achieved a #2 share in Canada, with 20% of the market. 
14  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
 Satisﬁ
 ed customers 
We make it a priority to know how customers feel about us. 

This year, BMO ranked second amongst the big ﬁv
 e retail banks 
in the J.D. Power 2013 Canadian Retail Banking Customer 

Satisfaction Study
SM. We believe that’s an indicator that we are 
doing good work.
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
15  ASTD BEST Award 
In 2013, BMO was one of only three North American banks 

honoured with a BEST Award by the American Society for 

Training and Development (ASTD) for global leadership in 

employee learning. The award underlines our commitment to 
 developing talent and nurturing great minds who can connect 

with customers and help them succeed. 
  16  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
  17  Managing our business<
            responsibly.< 
 There’s a lot more to it<
    than simply following<
 the rules and avoiding<

        missteps.< 
It means producing
    something – a positive impact, 
a new direction, a bridge 
         that didn’t exist before.
  In the new economy, 
     the currency that matters 
  
 most is reputation. 
And the only way to earn it 
    is by doing the right thing.
       As a bank, we have a 
          responsibility to contribute.
      To respond to today’s needs,    
    as well as tomorrow’s. 
      And above all, 
             to add value. 
Donnell Hill, Service Specialist at BMO’s contact centre in 
Naperville, IL, knows that delivering value begins with 

responding effectively to customers’ calls and online queries. 
 Community donations 
$56 million 
(Canadian $ in millions) 
 Allocations in 2013 (%) 
16 31 22 6 6 19 Hospitals and Health Care 
Civic and Comm
unity Initiatives 
Education 
Federated Appeals 
Arts and Culture 
Other 1  Earning our reputation 
In the latest annual customer survey conducted by 
American 
Banker
 and the Reputation Institute, BMO Harris Bank was 

ranked number one among 30 major U.S. banks evaluated for 

long-term trust, and number ﬁv
 e for overall bank reputation. 
Conﬁrma
 tion that customers believe in our bank is a key 
measure of our success as a responsibly run business. 
16  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
 9.9% 
BMO’s Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio of 9.9% at 

year 
-end is strong, and in excess of regulatory requirements. 
Our consistently strong capital position and prudent 

approach to risk management help ensure the bank’s 

ﬁnancial s trength and ﬂ
 exibility as we continue to execute 
on our long-term growth strategy. 
National governance award 
In 2013, BMO was recognized with an Excellence in Governance 

Award from the Canadian Society of Corporate Secretaries. Our 

commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance 

goes far beyond legal and regulatory compliance; we strive to 
 exceed the expectations of all key stakeholders with regard to 
 risk, ﬁ
 nancial performance and sustainable growth.   
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
17 18  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013
  19           
                             ’    Expectations 
         look to the future. 
     But they’re inevitably focused on<
      what happens right now.<
   The moment where ideas are<
            born and plans are made.<
         Where tomorrow becomes today.< 
Where 
can’t
 turns into 
can
. People want to see an opportunity 
        and act upon it. 
And as we help them build momentum,
                   our own opportunities grow. 
Fuelled by
                      great expectations.
Christie Saunders, Commercial Account Manager, BMO and <
Niall Fraser, President of the Grizzly Paw Brewing Company, <

working together to expand the footprint of Grizzly Paw s <

brewpub and microbrewery in Canmore, AB.< 
 Right place, right time 
With 1,563 branches, BMO is the second largest Canadian 
bank measured by retail network in Canada and the 

United States. As a North American enterprise centred in 

the heart of the continent, we serve a contiguous market 

with about 75 million people, GDP of more than $3.8 trillion 
and a diversiﬁed ec
 onomy that includes all the fundamental 
drivers of sustainable growth.   
Fuelling opportunity 
In the high-tech clusters and centres of innovation across 

our strategic footprint, BMO helps entrepreneurs launch new 

businesses that create jobs, expand sectors and generate 

lasting value. In 2013, we became a funding partner of 

the C100, a non-proﬁt or
 ganization that supports emerging 
Canadian technology companies in Silicon Valley through 

mentorship, partnership and investment.  
18  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
19 28.8% one-year TSR< 
BMO’s one 
-year total shareholder return (TSR) was the 
highest among our Canadian peer group in 2013, reﬂ
 ecting our success in delivering top 
-tier shareholder returns. Over 
the past ﬁv
 e years, BMO shareholders have earned an 
average annual TSR of 17.0% on their investment in BMO 

common shares, second among our Canadian peer group.  
20 years of learning 
 In 2014 we will mark the 20th anniversary of the BMO 

Institute for Learning (IFL), which delivers wide-ranging 

programs from campuses across North America. The IFL 

designs and delivers nearly 300 face 
-to 
-face courses, virtual 
classroom courses and eLearning programs. Employee 

training strengthens our competitive advantage while 

helping to bridge the North American skills gap.  
    
               Corporate Governance 
Good corporate governance matters to our shareholders, our customers, our employees, 
our communities – and to us. We strive to meet rigorous standards of corporate 

governance, following the best practices in our industry and meeting or going beyond 

regulatory requirements. 
Our board oversees our business 
Our Board of Directors supervises how we manage our 
business and affairs, so we choose board members 
with sophisticated expertise and a range of perspectives. 

The board makes decisions based on BMO’s strategies, 
core values, and the best information available. Its decisions 
emphasize long-term performance over short-term gain, 

and the board is accountable to our shareholders. 
The board operates independently of management 
The Chairman of the Board and our directors, other 

than the Chief Executive Offic
er, operate
 independently of management. Board meetings include time for the 
independent directors to meet without management 

or non-independent directors present. 
To reflect our customers and our values, 

our board is diverse 
The diverse backgrounds of our directors connect 
us with our customers, our markets and our employees. 

We believe this diversity also means we make better 

decisions. Our Board Diversity Policy received a 2013 
Diversity in Governance Award presented by the Canadian 

Board Diversity Council. We also received the Canadian 
General Counsel 2013 Social Responsibility Award for 

our work on sustainability and diversity within the bank 

and the community. 
We compensate our directors and executives 

in ways that encourage good decisions 

Our model for compensating directors and executives 

follows best practices for good governance. We use a 

pay-for-performance model that includes clawbacks and 

discourages unreasonable risk-taking. Directors and 

executives must own shares, to align their interests with 

those of other shareholders. We do not allow directors 

and employees to hedge their investments in our shares, 

securities or related financial instruments. 
We are committed to doing business ethically 
FirstPrinciples
, our code of conduct and ethics, guides 
our decision-making at every level. The Audit and Conduct 
Review Committee monitors compliance with the code 
and approves any exceptions, as appropriate. 
Every director and employee commits to 
FirstPrinciples 
each year by signing an acknowledgment that they 

have read, understood and complied with 
FirstPrinciples
. All employees are also required to take an online course 
to test their understanding of 
FirstPrinciples
. Our policy is to: 
•< encourage employees to raise concerns about 

ethical conduct 
•< allow people to report concerns anonymously 

through the Office of the Ombudsman or online, 

so they can speak without fear of retaliation 
•< investigate complaints and act on them, escalating 
issues to the board and Audit and Conduct Review 
Committee if necessary. 
Our board and management stay connected 

with our shareholders 
We engage our shareholders through the annual 
shareholder meeting, annual report, management 
proxy circular, quarterly reports, annual information form, 
sustainability report, corpo
rate responsibility report, 
news releases and industry conferences. Our website 

provides extensive information about the board, 
its mandate, the board committees and their charters, 

and our directors. 
20  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013  
21          
                          Board of Directors
1 To promote alignment of our strategic goals across all our businesses, each director sits on at least one board committee and t
he Chief 
Executive Officer is invited to all committee meetings. We review the membership of all committees annually
 . www.bmo.com/corporategovernance 
Robert M. Astley 
Janice M. Babiak 
Sophie Brochu 
George A. Cope 
William A. Downe 
Christine A. Edwards 
Ronald H. Farmer 
Eric R. La Flèche 
Bruce H. Mitchell 
Philip S. Orsino Dr. Martha C. Piper 
J. Robert S. Prichard 
Don M. Wilson III 
22  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Robert M. Astley 
Former President and Chief 

Executive Officer, Clarica 

Life Insurance Company, and 

former President, Sun Life 

Financial Canada 

Board/Committees:
 Governance 
and Nominating, Human 

Resources (Chair), Risk Review 

Director since:
 2004 
Janice M. Babiak 
Corporate 
Director 
Board/Committees:
 Audit and 

Conduct Review, Risk Review 

Other public boards:
 Royal 

Mail plc, Walgreens Co. 

Director since:
 2012 
Sophie Brochu 
President and Chief Executive 

Officer, Gaz Métro 
Board/Committees:
 Audit 
and Conduct Review 
Other public boards:
 BCE Inc. 

Director since:
 2011 
George A. Cope 
President and Chief Executive 
Officer, Bell Canada and BCE Inc. 

Board/Committees:
 Human 
Resources 
Other public boards:
 BCE Inc., 

Bell Aliant 

Director since:
 2006 
William A. Downe 
Chief Executive Officer, 
BMO Financial Group 

Board/Committees:
 Attends 
all committee meetings as 

an invitee 

Other public boards: 

ManpowerGroup 

Director since:
 2007 
Christine A. Edwards 

Capital Partner, Winston & Strawn 
Board/Committees:
 Human 
Resources, Risk Review, 
The Pension Fund Society 

of the Bank of Montreal 

Director since:
 2010 
Ronald H. Farmer 
Managing Director, 
Mosaic Capital Partners 

Board/Committees:
 Audit and Conduct Review, Governance and 

Nominating, Human Resources, 

The Pension Fund Society of the 

Bank of Montreal (Chair) 

Other public boards:
 Valeant 
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. 
Director since:
 2003 
Eric R. La Flèche 
President and Chief Executive 

Officer, Metro Inc. 

Board/Committees:
 Risk Review 
Other public boards:
 Metro Inc. 

Director since:
 2012 
Bruce H. Mitchell 
President and Chief Executive 

Officer, Permian Industries Limited 

Board/Committees:
 Audit and Conduct Review, The Pension 

Fund Society of the Bank of 

Montreal 

Director since:
 1999 Philip S. Orsino, O.C., F.C.A. 
President and Chief Executive 
Officer, Jeld-Wen Inc. 

Board/Committees:
 Audit 
and Conduct Review (Chair), 
Governance and Nominating 

Director since:
 1999 Dr. Martha C. Piper, O.C., O.B.C. 

Corporate Director, former 
President and Vice-Chancellor, 

The University of British Columbia 

Board/Committees:
 Audit and Conduct Review, Governance 

and Nominating (Chair) 

Other public boards:
 Shoppers 
Drug Mart Corporation, TransAlta 

Corporation 

Director since:
 2006 
J. Robert S. Prichard, O.C., O.Ont. 
Chairman of the Board, 
BMO Financial Group, and 

Chair of Torys LLP 

Board/Committees:
 Governance 
and Nominating, Human 

Resources, Risk Review, 

The Pension Fund Society 
of the Bank of Montreal 

Other public boards:
 George 

Weston Limited, Onex Corporation 

Director since:
 2000 
Don M. Wilson III 
Corporate Director 
Board/Committees:
 Governance 
and Nominating, Human 

Resources, Risk Review (Chair) 

Other public boards:
 Ethan 
Allen Interiors Inc. 

Director since:
 2008 
1 As at October 31, 2013. 
Honorary Directors 
Stephen E. Bachand, Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, USA 

Ralph M. Barford, Toronto, ON 

Matthew W. Barrett, O.C., LL.D., Oakville, ON 

David R. Beatty, O.B.E., Toronto, ON 

Peter J.G. Bentley, O.C., LL.D., Vancouver, BC 

Robert Chevrier, F.C.A., Montreal, QC 

Tony Comper, C.M., LL.D., Toronto, ON 

Pierre Côté, C.M., Quebec City, QC 

C. 
William Daniel, O.C., LL.D., Toronto, ON 
Louis A. Desrochers, C.M., c.r., A.O.E., Edmonton, AB 

A.
 John Ellis, O.C., LL.D., O.R.S., Vancouver, BC 

John F. Fraser, O.C., LL.D., O.R.S., Winnipeg, MB 

David A. Galloway, Toronto, ON 

Richard M. Ivey, C.C., Q.C., Toronto, ON 
Betty Kennedy, O.C., LL.D., Campbellville, ON 

Harold N. Kvisle, Calgary, AB 

Eva Lee Kwok, Vancouver, BC 

J. Blair MacAulay, Oakville, ON 

Ronald N. Mannix, O.C., Calgary, AB 

Robert H. McKercher, Q.C., Saskatoon, SK 

Eric H. Molson, Montreal, QC 

Jerry E.A. Nickerson, North Sydney, NS 

Jeremy H. Reitman, Montreal, QC 

Lucien G. Rolland, O.C., Montreal, QC 

Joseph L. Rotman, O.C., LL.D., Toronto, ON 

Guylaine Saucier, F.C.P.A., F.C.A., C.M., Montreal, QC 

Nancy C. Southern, Calgary, AB 
CFO’S FOREWORD TO THE FINANCIAL REVIEW 
CFO’s Foreword to the 
Financial Review 
Thomas E. Flynn 
Chief Financial Officer, BMO Financial Group 
BMO delivered record net income of $4.2 billion in 2013, 
building on our 2012 performance. On an adjusted basis, net 

income rose to $4.3 billion and EPS was $6.30, increasing 5% 

from last year. We also announced two dividend increases, 

bought back over 10 million common shares and strengthened 

our capital position. Our continued good results reflect the success of our strategy 

and have translated into attractive returns for BMO’s shareholders. 

Our one-year total shareholder return of 29% was the highest 

among our Canadian peer group. Over the past five years, our 

shareholders have earned an average annual total shareholder 

return of 17% on their investment in common shares. We have 

achieved these returns while managing risk prudently and 

strengthening our balance sheet. 
The bank’s financial results are examined in Management’s 
Discussion and Analysis (MD&A), where we review our 

performance and tell our financial story clearly and thoroughly. 

Our long-standing commitment to ensuring that shareholders 

receive timely and informative reporting on our financial results 

earned us the Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada 

Award of Excellence in Corporate Reporting for Financial Services 

in two of the last three years. 
This year, we expanded our disclosures in several areas in 

response to recommendations made by the Enhanced 

Disclosure Task Force established by the Financial Stability 

Board, which is part of a broader effort by industry participants 

and regulators to strengthen the resiliency of the financial 

services industry globally. We are supportive of this effort and 

hope you find the additional disclosures informative. 
Looking forward, we are well-positioned for the current 
environment:  
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
23 •< Our large North American commercial banking business is a 
differentiator in an environment where commercial loan growth 

is expected to continue to outpace consumer loan growth. 
•< Our flagship Canadian Personal and Commercial banking 

business is heading into 2014 with good momentum. 
•< Wealth Management had record results for this year and 

has good growth opportunities in North America and select 

global markets. 
•< We expect growth and operating leverage from investments 

we have made in our U.S. businesses and from the 

improving U.S. economy. 
•< We are working to improve efficiency with an emphasis 

on simplifying processes and pursuing opportunities to 

integrate technology and operations infrastructures on a 
North American basis. 
•< Our capital position is the strongest among our Canadian 
peer group with a Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio of 9.9%, 

up from the pro-forma estimate of 8.7% at the end of 2012. 
As we head into 2014, we remain focused on meeting our 

existing customers’ needs and adding new customers across 

all our businesses by delivering on our brand promise. 

We hope you enjoy reading our MD&A and look forward 
to reporting on our continued progress next year. 
Thomas E. Flynn 
           
                          
                                     
  
           Financial Performance and Condition at a Glance 
Our Performance 
(Note 1)< 
Peer Group Performance 
Our Performance 
(Note 1) 
Peer Group Performance 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
P 33 17.4 
TSR 
(%)< Credit Losses 
P 42, 77, 84; 
Provision for Credit Losses as a % of Average 
Net Loans and Acceptances 
• BMO shareholders have earned an average annual return 
10.8 
11.5 
• The Canadian peer group average annual three-year TSR <
• The adjusted provision for credit losses (PCL) was $359 million, 
of 11.5% over the past three years, above the 4.8% return 
was 12.0%. The one-year TSR was 22.4% and the five-year <
down from $471 million in 2012. Reported PCL was $589 million, 
• The Canadian peer group average PCL represented 
on the S&P/TSX Composite Index. 
average annual TSR was 15.6%. <
down from $765 million. The decline in adjusted PCL reflects 
0.56 
0.54 
33 basis points of average net loans and acceptances, 
• The one-year TSR of 28.8% and the five-year average 
• The North American peer group average annual three-year <
decreases in provisions in all of our operating groups, offset in part 
down from 37 basis points in 2012. 
annual TSR of 17.0% both outperformed the comparable 
TSR was 12.7%, slightly above the Canadian peer group <
by lower recoveries on the purchased credit impaired loan portfolio. 
• The North American peer group average PCL represented 
Canadian indices. 
average. The one-year TSR in 2013 was 21.3% and the <
• Adjusted PCL as a percentage of average net loans and acceptances 
36 basis points, down from 53 basis points in 2012, 
0.31 
2011 2012 
2013 
five-year average annual TSR was 6.1%. 
improved to 14 basis points from 21 basis points a year ago, 
Graph shows average annual three-year TSR. 
and reported PCL as a percentage of average net loans and 
acceptances improved to 22 basis points from 31 basis points. 

These positive ratio trends reflect lower provisions across both our 
Earnings per Share (EPS) Growth 
EPS Growth 
(%)P 35 consumer and commercial loan portfolios and all of our operating 
27• Adjusted net income grew $184 million or 5% to 
• The Canadian peer group average EPS increased 3%, 
groups, compared to 2012.< 
2011 
$4,276 million in 2013, and adjusted EPS grew $0.30 
with all but two banks in the peer group reporting =
or 5% to $6.30. Reported net income grew $59 million =
increases in EPS.= 
to $4,248 million, and reported EPS grew $0.11 or =
P 8418 • Average EPS growth for the North American peer group was <
Impaired Loans 
2% to $6.26. 
69%, with significant variability among our U.S. peer banks.< 
• Gross impaired loans and acceptances (GIL), excluding 
• There was revenue growth and lower provisions 
purchased credit impaired loans, decreased to $2,544 million 
8.98 
for credit losses on an adjusted basis.< 
6 25 from $2,976 million in 2012, and represented 7.61% of equity 
2 and allowances for credit losses, compared with 9.30% a year ago. 
• Formations of new impaired loans and acceptances, a key driver 
All EPS measures are stated on a diluted basis.< 
2011 2012 
2013 
North American peer group data is not to scale. 
of provisions for credit losses, were $2,449 million, down from 

$3,101 million in 2012, primarily due to a $535 million decrease 
in formations in the purchased performing loan portfolio. 
53Net Economic Profit (NEP) Growth 
P 36 NEP Growth 
(%) • Adjusted NEP, a measure of added economic value, 
2011 
was $1,237 million, down $9 million or 1% from 2012. 
28 Reported NEP was $1,298 million, down $141 million 
1915 or 10% from 2012. 
Capital Adequacy P 61 • The decrease is reflective of higher earnings being more 
• BMO’s Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Ratio exceeds 
8.7 
than offset by 
a higher charge for capital, as a result of 
(1)/ 
regulatory requirements. 
growth in 
shareholders’ equity.< 
(10) 
• The Basel III CET1 Ratio was 9.9%, up from 8.7% on 
2011/ 2012 
2013 
NEP data is not available for all banks in the peer group. 
a pro-forma basis in 2012, primarily due to an increase 

in common equity. 
Return on Equity (ROE) 
P 36; ROE 
(%) • Adjusted ROE was 15.0% and reported ROE was 14.9% 
• The Canadian peer group average ROE of 18.3% was 
15.1
16.0 
15.9 
15.5 
14.9 
15.0 
in 2013, compared with 15.5% and 15.9%, respectively, 
lower than the average return of 20.1% in 2012, as ROE =
in 2012. There was growth in both reported and adjusted =
declined for all but one bank in our Canadian peer group. 
*2012 Basel III CET1 Ratio is a pro-forma estimate. 
2012
* earnings available to common shareholders. There was 
• Average ROE for the North American peer group was =
also an increase in average common shareholders’ equity =
12.2%, unchanged from 2012. 
Credit Rating 
P 94primarily due to internally-generated capital. 
• Credit ratings for BMO’s long-term debt, as assessed by the four major =
past 24 years, one of only two banks in our North American =
• BMO has achieved an ROE of 13% or better in 23 of the 
rating agencies, are listed below and all four ratings are considered to =
peer group to have done so. 
2011 2012 
2013. 
indicate high-grade, high-quality issues. On January 28, 2013, Moody’s 

lowered the long-term senior debt ratings of six Canadian banks, including 

BMO, by one notch and removed systemic support from the ratings of 
16Revenue Growth 
P 38 Revenue Growth 
(%)< all rated Canadian banks’ subordinated debt instruments. Moody’s affirmed 
14 • Revenue growth for the Canadian peer group averaged <
BMO’s short-term rating. 
• Adjusted revenue increased $505 million or 3% in 
12 10 4%, less than half the average growth of 9% in 2012. 
2013 to $15,572 million. Reported revenue increased 
• Average revenue growth for the North American peer 
$133 million to $16,263 million. The increase was 
1 group was 2%, a decline from 4% in 2012, with three 
primarily due to revenue growth in Wealth Management, 
3 of our U.S. peers reporting lower revenues. 
BMO Capital Markets and Canadian P&C. 
2011 2012 
2013 
63.5 
63.1 
63.3 
63.1 
62.7 
61.5 
Efficiency Ratio 
Efﬁ ciency Ratio 
(%)P 43 (Expense-to-Revenue Ratio) 
• The Canadian peer group average efficiency ratio was 

59.1%, up from 58.3% in 2012 as increases in expenses =
from 2012. The reported efficiency ratio improved =
• The adjusted efficiency ratio was 63.1%, unchanged 
more than offset revenue growth.= 
20 basis points to 63.3%, as revenue growth was higher =
• The average efficiency ratio for the North American peer =
than expense growth.= 
group was 62.7%, slightly better than the group’s average 

ratio of 63.0% in 2012, and worse than the average of 
*Data for all years reﬂects the peer group composition in the most recent year. 
2011 2012 
2013 
our Canadian peer group. 
and was slightly higher than the average PCL for the 
0.22 
0.21 
Canadian peer group. 
0.14 
2012 
2013 
Gross Impaired Loans and Acceptances as a % 
of Equity and Allowances for Credit Losses 
9.30 
• The Canadian peer group average ratio of GIL as a 
7.61/ 
percentage of equity and allowances for credit losses 
was 5.66% in 2013, down from 6.40% in 2012. 
• The average ratio for our North American peer group 

improved from 11.32% a year ago to 9.55% in 2013, 

but continues to be higher than the average for the 

Canadian peer group. 
2012 
2013 
Capital Adequacy9.9 • The Canadian peer group average Basel III CET1 Ratio 

was 9.2% in 2013, compared to an average pro-forma 

CET1 Ratio of 8.3% a year ago. 
• The basis for computing capital adequacy ratios 

in Canada and the United States is not comparable. 
2013 
Credit Rating 
• Moody’s Canadian peer group median credit rating was lower in 2013 compared 

with 2012, as Moody’s downgraded the senior long-term debt ratings for four 

of our Canadian peers by one notch. 
• S&P’s Canadian peer group median credit rating was also lower in 2013, as 

S&P downgraded the long-term debt ratings of one of our Canadian peers 

by one notch. 
• The credit ratings awarded by the two remaining ratings agencies to the 

Canadian peer group were unchanged. 
• Moody’s North American peer group median credit rating was lower compared 

with 2012, as Moody’s downgraded the ratings for two of our U.S. peers by one 

notch and upgraded the rating of one of our U.S. peers by two notches. The 

North American peer group median credit ratings remain slightly lower than 

the median of the Canadian peer group for two of the ratings. 
BMO Financial Group 
Canadian peer group median
* North American peer group median
* 2011 
2012 
2013 
2011 
2012 
2013 
2011 
2012 
2013 
DBRS 
AA AA AA DBRS 
AA AA AA DBRS 
AAL 
AAL 
AAL 
Fitch 
AA– 
AA– 
AA– 
Fitch 
AA– 
AA– 
AA– 
Fitch 
AA– 
AA– 
AA– 
Moody’s 
Aa2 
Aa2 
Aa3 
Moody’s 
Aa1 
Aa2 
Aa3 
Moody’s 
Aa3 
Aa3 
A1 S&P A+ A+ A+ S&P AA– 
AA– 
A+ S&P A+ A+ A+ Note 1: NEP and adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP. Please see the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
Since November 1, 2011, BMO’s ﬁnancial results and those of our Canadian peers have been reported in accordance with IFRS. The consolidated ﬁ
 nancial statements for comparative periods in ﬁ
scal year 2011 have been restated. 2011 growth rates are based on Canadian GAAP in 2010 and IFRS in 2011, and 
may not be meaningful. U.S. peer group data continues to be reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 
In 2013, we changed the methodology for the Canadian and North American peer group averages to a simple-average calculation fro
m a weighted-average 
calculation, and restated prior periods. 
BMO reported 
BMO adjusted 

Canadian peer group average 

North American peer group average 
The Canadian peer group averages exclude BMO and are based on the performance of Canada’s ﬁ
ve other largest banks: Canadian Imperial Bank of 
Commerce, National Bank of Canada, RBC Financial Group, Scotiabank and TD Bank Financial Group. The North American peer group a
verages are based on the 
performance of 12 of the largest banks in North America. These include the Canadian peer group, except National Bank of Canada,
 as well as BB&T Corporation, 
Bank of New York Mellon, Fifth Third Bancorp, Key Corp., The PNC Financial Services Group Inc., Regions Financial, SunTrust Ban
ks Inc. and U.S. Bancorp. 
Results are as at or for the years ended October 31 for Canadian banks and as at or for the years ended September 30 for U.S. banks. 
BMO reported 
BMO adjusted 

Canadian peer group average 

North American peer group average 
24  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013  
25 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis; ;
MD&A BMO’s Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer have signed a statement outlining management’s responsibility for financial information in 
the annual consolidated financial statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A). The statement, which can be found on page 122, 

also explains the roles of the Audit and Conduct Review Committee and Board of Directors in respect of that financial information. 
The MD&A comments on BMO’s operations and financial condition for the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012. The MD&A should be read in 
conjunction with our consolidated financial statements for the yea
r ended October 31, 2013. The MD&A commentary is as of December 3, 2013. Unless 

otherwise indicated, all amounts are stated in Canadian dollars and have bee
n derived from financial statements prepared in accordance with Interna
<tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). References 
to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) mean IFRS. 
Since November 1, 2011, BMO’s financial results have been reported in accordance with IFRS. Results for years prior to 2011 have not been 
restated and are presented in accordance with Canadian GAAP as defined at that time (CGAAP). As such, certain growth rates and compound annual 

growth rates (CAGR) may not be meaningful. Certain other prior year data has also been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation, 

including restatements arising from methodology changes and transfers of certain businesses between operating groups. See pages 44 and 45. 
Index 27 Who We Are 
provides an overview of BMO Financial Group, explains 
the links between our financial objectives and our overall vision, and 
outlines “Reasons to Invest in BMO” along with relevant key perform<

ance data. 
28 Enterprise-Wide Strategy 
outlines our enterprise-wide strategy and 
the context in which it is developed, as well as our progress in relation 

to our priorities. 
29 Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
advises readers 
about the limitations and inherent risks and uncertainties of forward-

looking statements. 
30 Factors That May Affect Future Results 
outlines certain industry and 
company-specific factors that inves
tors should consider when assessing 
BMO’s earnings prospects. 
32 Economic Developments and Outlook 
includes commentary on the 
Canadian, U.S. and international economies in 2013 and our expect<
ations for 2014. 
33 Value Measures 
reviews financial performance on the four key 
measures that assess or most directly influence shareholder return. It 

also includes explanations of non-GAAP measures, a reconciliation to 

their GAAP counterparts for the fiscal year, and a summary of adjusting 

items that are excluded from results to assist in the review of key 

measures and adjusted results. 
33 Total Shareholder Return 
34 Non-GAAP Measures 
35 Earnings per Share Growth 
36 Net Economic Profit Growth 
36 Return on Equity 
37 2013 Financial Performance Review 
provides a detailed review of 
BMO’s consolidated financial performance by major income statement 

category. It also includes summaries of the impact of business acquis<

itions and changes in foreign exchange rates. 
Operating Group Review 
outlines the strategies and key priorities of 
our operating groups and the challe
nges they face, along with their 
strengths and value drivers. It also includes a summary of their 
achievements in 2013, their focus for 2014, and a review of their 

financial performance for the year and the business environment in 

which they operate. 
44 Summary 
46 Personal and Commercial Banking 
47 Canadian Personal and Commercial Banking 
50 U.S. Personal and Commercial Banking 
53 Wealth Management 
56 BMO Capital Markets 
59 Corporate Services, including Technology and Operations 
Financial Condition Review 
comments on our assets and liabilities 
by major balance sheet category. It includes a review of our capital 
adequacy and our approach to optimizing our capital position to 

support our business strategies and maximize returns to our share<

holders. It outlines proposed regulatory changes that are expected to 

impact capital and liquidity manage
ment as well as certain business 
operations. It also includes a review of off-balance sheet arrange<

ments and certain select financial instruments and European balances. 
60 Summary Balance Sheet 
61 Enterprise-Wide Capital Management 
65 Select Financial Instruments 
67 Select Geographic Exposures 
69 U.S. Regulatory Developments 
70 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
Accounting Matters and Disclosure and Internal Control 
reviews critical accounting estimates and changes in accounting policies in 

2013 and for future periods. It also outlines our evaluation of 

disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial 

reporting, and provides an index of disclosure recommended by the 

Enhanced Disclosure Task Force. 
70 Critical Accounting Estimates 
73 Changes in Accounting Policies in 2013 
73 Future Changes in Accounting Policies 
73 Transactions with Related Parties 
74 Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over 

Financial Reporting 
74 Shareholders’ Auditors’ Services and Fees 
75 Enhanced Disclosure Task Force 
77 Enterprise-Wide Risk Management 
outlines our approach to 
managing key financial risks and other related risks we face. 
78 Overview 78 Top and Emerging Risks 
79 Framework and Risks 
82 Credit and Counterparty Risk 
87 Market Risk 
92 Liquidity and Funding Risk 
94 Operational Risk 
95 Insurance Risk 
96 Legal and Regulatory Risk 
96 Business Risk 
96 Model Risk 
98 Strategic Risk 
98 Reputation Risk 
99 Environmental and Social Risk 
100 2012 Financial Performance Re
view, Review of Fourth Quarter 
2013 Performance 
and Summary Quarterly Earnings Trends 
provide commentary on results for relevant periods other than fiscal 2013. 
104 Supplemental Information 
presents other useful financial tables and 
more historical detail. 
Regulatory Filings Our continuous disclosure materials, including our interim financial statements and interim MD&A, annual audited consolidated financial statements and annual MD&A, 

Annual Information Form and Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Management Proxy Circular, are available on our website at www.bmo.com/investorrelations, 

on the Canadian Securities Administrators’ website at www.sedar.com and on the EDGAR section of the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. BMO’s Chief Executive Officer and its 

Chief Financial Officer certify the appropriateness and fairness of BMO’s annual and interim consolidated financial statements, MD&A and Annual Information Form, and the 

effectiveness of BMO’s disclosure controls and procedures and material changes in our internal control over financial reporting. 
26 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
   
 
    
 Who We Are; ;
Established in 1817, BMO Financial Group is a highly diversified financial services provider based in North America. With total assets of $537 billio
nand 
approximately 45,500 employees, BMO provides a broad range of retail banki
ng, wealth management and investment banking products and services to 
more than 12 million customers. We serve more than seven million customers 
across Canada through our Canadian retail arm, BMO Bank of Montreal. 
We also serve customers through our wealth management businesses: BMO Nesbitt Burns, BMO Inves
torLine, BMO Private Banking, BMO Global Asset 
Management and BMO Insurance. BMO Capital Markets, our investment and co
rporate banking and trading products division, provides a full suite of 
financial products and services to North American and international client
s. In the United States, BMO serves customers through BMO Harris Bank, an 
integrated financial services organization based in the U.S. Midwest wi
th more than two million retail, small business and commercial customers. BM
O Financial Group conducts business through three operating groups: Pers
onal and Commercial Banking, Wealth Management and BMO Capital Markets. 
Our Financial Objectives 
BMO’s medium-term financial objectives for certain important perform<
ance measures are set out below. We believe that we will deliver 

top-tier total shareholder return and meet our medium-term financial 

objectives by aligning our operations with, and executing on, our 

strategic priorities, along with our vision and guiding principle, as out<

lined on the following page. We consider top-tier returns to be 

top-quartile shareholder returns relative to our Canadian and North 

American peer group. 
BMO’s business planning process is rigorous and considers the 
prevailing economic conditions, our risk appetite, our customers’ 

evolving needs and the opportunities available across our lines of busi<

ness. It includes clear and direct accountability for annual performance 

that is measured against both internal and external benchmarks and 

progress toward our strategic priorities. 
Over the medium term, our financial objectives on an adjusted basis 
are to achieve average annual earnings per share (adjusted EPS) growth 

of 7% to 10%, earn an average annual return on equity (adjusted ROE) 

of between 15% and 18%, generate average annual operating leverage 

of 2% or more, and maintain strong capital ratios that exceed regulatory 

requirements. These objectives are key guideposts as we execute 

against our strategic priorities. Our operating philosophy is to increase 

revenues at rates higher than general economic growth rates, while 

limiting expense growth to achieve average annual adjusted operating 

leverage. In managing our operations, we balance current profitability 

with the need to both invest in our businesses for future growth and 

manage risk. 
Reasons to Invest in BMO 
‰ Clear opportunities for growth across a diversified North 
American footprint 
O Large North American commercial banking business with advan<
taged market share 
O Good momentum in our well-established Canadian Personal and 

Commercial Banking business 
O Award-winning wealth franchise with strong growth oppor<

tunities in North America and select global markets 
O Operating leverage across our U.S. businesses 
‰ Strong capital position and an attractive dividend yield 
‰ Focus on efficiency through core operations and technology 
integration, particularly for retail businesses across North America 
‰ Industry-leading customer loyalty and a focus on customer 

experience to increase market share and drive revenue growth 
‰ Committed to upholding the highest level of business ethics and 

corporate governance 
As at or for the periods ended October 31, 2013 
(%, except as noted) 
1-year 5-year* 10-year* 
Average annual total shareholder return 
28.8 17.0 8.7 
Compound growth in annual EPS 
1.8 10.7 6.2 
Compound growth in annual adjusted EPS 
5.0 6.2 5.8 
Average annual ROE 
14.9 14.4 15.3 
Average annual adjusted ROE 
15.0 15.1 16.5 
Compound growth in annual 
dividends declared per share 
4.3 1.0 8.2 
Dividend yield** 
4.0 4.8 4.4 
Price-to-earnings multiple** 11.6 12.5 12.8 
Market value/book value ratio** 
1.66 1.59 1.84 
Common Equity Ratio (Basel III basis) 
9.9 na na 
* >5-year and 10-year growth rates reflect growth based on CGAAP in 2008 and 2003, 

respectively, and IFRS in 2013. 
**>1-year measure as at October 31. 5-year and 10-year measures are the average of 
year-end values. 
na – not applicable 

Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures 
section on page 34. 
MD&A The Our Financial Objectives section above and the Enterprise-Wide Strategy and Economic Developments and Outlook sections that follow contain certain forward-looking 
statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements require us to make assumptions and are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the Caution 

Regarding Forward-Looking Statements on page 29 of this MD&A for a discussion of such risks and uncertainties and the material factors and assumptions related to the 

statements set forth in such sections. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
27      
  
   
 
   
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Enterprise-Wide Strategy; ;
MD&A Our Vision 
To be the bank that defines great customer experience. 
Our Guiding Principle 
We aim to deliver top-tier total shareholder return and balance our commitments to financial performance, our customers, our employees, the envi<
ronment and the communities where we live and work. 
Our Strategy in Context 
Changes in the economic environment, and their effects on our customers, are ongoing. Our focus on helping our customers succeed and giving them 

the confidence that they are making the right financial choices – Making Money Make Sense – serves as a compass for us in all economic environ<

ments. It also drives our employees to deliver their best, every day. 
Our strategy has proven robust despite continued market uncertainty and global regulatory change. We believe that the strength of our business 
model, balance sheet, risk management framework and leadership team, along with the benefits we expect from our North American platform, will 

continue to generate sustainable growth and help us deliver on our brand promise of bringing clarity to customers’ financial decisions. 
Our commitment to our customers and our shareholders is evidenced in our focus on delivering an industry-leading customer experience, 
managing our revenue and expenses to achieve our financial goals, and continuing our prudent approach to risk management. We are making good 

progress on our enterprise strategic priorities, with select accomplishments outlined below, as well as on our group strategies, detailed in the 2013 

Review of Operating Groups Performance, which starts on page 44. 
Our Priorities and Progress 
1. Achieve industry-leading customer loyalty by delivering on our 

brand promise. 
‰Developed innovative new capabilities, with an emphasis on 

digital banking and investing, to bring clarity to our customers’ 

financial decisions: 
oLaunched the BMO InvestorLine mobile application, which enables 

our clients to track their investments, follow market trends and 

place trades anytime and anywhere with their smartphones. 
oEnhanced our U.S. online banking platform, providing our 

customers the ability to view and manage all their bank, credit card 

and investment accounts in one place. After initial release in the 

market, there were signs of increased total users and average time 

per visit. 
oIntegrated technology and conference delivery to enhance the 

experience of our BMO Capital Markets customers, and won 2013 

American Business Awards’ Golden Stevie for Business to Business 

Marketing Campaign of the Year. 
oLaunched Western Union e-Transfers through online banking in 

Canada, allowing BMO customers to make cash transfers for pickup 

at a Western Union location. 
oDeveloped a new online tool to help customers choose the right 

investment and wealth management service to meet their needs. 
oIntroduced online booking of appointments with our Canadian 

branch staff. Customers booked nearly 40,000 appointments in 

2013 using this capability. 
‰Recognized externally with awards across our groups, including Best 

Private Bank in Canada 
(Global Banking and Finance Review), Top Bank-Owned Online Brokerage in Canada 
(Globe and Mail), Model Bank Award for Canadian online appointment booking tool 
(Celent), Best Investment Bank in Canada 
(Global Finance) and World’s Best 
Metals and Mining Investment Bank 
(Global Finance). 2. Enhance productivity to drive performance and shareholder 

value. ‰Streamlined our divisional sales structure in Canadian P&C to bring 

our leadership closer to customers and improve efficiency. 
‰Continued the redesign of our core processes (e.g., Commercial 

Lending and Mortgage) to achieve a high-quality customer experi<

ence, create capacity for customer-facing employees and 

reduce costs. 
28 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
‰Increased the client-facing time for our Wealth Management sales 

force through the redesign of workforce processes, including client 

onboarding and lending processes. 
‰Successfully launched our equity-linked sales and trading platform in 

the United States, leading eight deals, including the second largest 

convertible bond issued by Canadian issuers in the year. 
‰Reviewed our cost structure to find pathways to greater efficiency: 
oContinued to roll out new branch formats offering smaller, more 

flexible and more cost-effective points of distribution across 

North America. 
oRealized real estate synergies from the M&I integration, including 

nine branch consolidations and significant reductions in non-branch 

office space. 
‰Grew our distribution capacity: 
oBuilt sales capacity in our Canadian branch network with a focus on 

attractive growth locations, opening or upgrading 86 branches and 

significantly expanding our automated banking machine (ABM) 

network, adding more than 300 machines since last year. 
oInvested to improve online sales processes, resulting in increased 

contributions from our online channel. Online retail banking sales 

levels in Canada are now equivalent to sales at 90 branches. 
oBegan delivering sales leads online in addition to existing branch 

and call centre programs. 
3. Leverage our consolidated North American platform to deliver 

quality earnings growth. 
‰Continued to develop consolidated North American capabilities and 

platforms in priority areas: 
oLaunched our first North American creative platform with the 

PayCheck / Paycheque campaign. The advertisements were 
aired across Canada and the United States and have increased 

brand awareness. oEstablished North American leadership mandates for key roles, 

including the appointment of Frank Techar as Chief Operating 

Officer (effective November 1, 2013). In this role, Frank will 

oversee our North American Personal and Commercial Banking and 

Wealth Management businesses, further driving collaboration 

across borders and businesses. 
oAligned our North-South risk management capabilities, creating 

consistency and eliminating duplication. 


       
‰Continued to expand our businesses and capabilities in the 
United States: 
oContinued to roll out Premier Services in the United States, a 

unique planning-focused wealth management and banking offer<

ing. Over the past two years, Premier Services customer holdings 

have increased significantly. 
oContinued to leverage our robust thought leadership website, The 

Resource Center, which provides current and prospective clients 

with valuable industry insights from BMO experts, as well as third-

party content via our exclusive partnerships. 
oPosted our best-ever investment banking performance in the 

United States, with a record year for Equity Capital Markets, Debt 

Capital Markets, and Acquisitions & Divestitures. 
‰Introduced compelling offers in Canada to establish and strengthen 

client relationships: 
oThe momentum of our Five-Year Fixed 25-year amortization mort<

gage product continued, helping customers become mortgage-free 

faster, pay less interest and protect themselves against rising 

interest rates. The success of this product is building a foundation 

for new and expanded long-term customer relationships. 
oLaunched seven new exchange traded funds (ETFs) to help> >

investors build their own portfolios more effectively.> >
oFurthered our commitment to new Canadians with the launch of 

the BMO NewStart Program, a program that addresses 

new Canadians’ unique deposit, lending, credit card and advice 

needs. This program continues to grow, with over 100,000 

customers currently in this priority segment. 
oLaunched enhanced BMO World Elite MasterCard
®, recognized for 
the richness of its customer offer, including no blackout periods, 

VIP airport lounge access and one of the highest credit card travel 

redemption rates in the industry. 
4. Expand strategically in select global markets to create 

future growth. 
‰Only Canadian bank and one of only three North American banks with 

an established subsidiary bank in China. 
‰Expanded our international wealth management platform including 

the acquisition of a wealth management business with offices in 

Hong Kong and Singapore. 
‰BMO Global Asset Management established a new office in Australia 

that focuses on sales and serving Australia’s institutional and 

retail investors. 
‰Ranked among the top 20 global investment banks and the 

13th largest investment bank in North America based on fees by 

Thomson Reuters. 
5. Ensure our strength in risk management underpins everything 

we do for our customers. 
‰Continued to build out the Risk-IT infrastructure in line with regulatory 

expectations for improved risk data aggregation and information 

management systems. 
‰Strengthened our stress testing capabilities by advancing our 

enterprise-wide stress testing framework and embedding stress 

testing in our strategy and business planning processes. 
MD&A Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
Bank of Montreal’s public communications often include written or oral forward-looking statements. Statements of this type are included in this doc
ument, and may be 
included in other filings with Canadian securities regulators or the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or in other communications. All such statements are made 

pursuant to the “safe harbor” provisions of, and are intended to be forward-looking statements under, the United States 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and any applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking statements may involve, but are not limited to, comments with respect to our objectives and priorities 

for 2014 and beyond, our strategies or future actions, our targets, expectations for our financial condition or share price, and the results of or outlook for our operations or 

for the Canadian, U.S. and international economies. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements require us to make assumptions and are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. There is significant risk that 
predictions, forecasts, conclusions or projections will not prove to be accurate, that our assumptions may not be correct and that actual results may differ materially from 

such predictions, forecasts, conclusions or projections. We caution readers of this document not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements as a number of 

factors could cause actual future results, conditions, actions or events to differ materially from the targets, expectations, estimates or intentions expressed in the forward-

looking statements. 
The future outcomes that relate to forward-looking statements may be influenced by many factors, including but not limited to: general economic and market 
conditions in the countries in which we operate; weak, volatile or illiquid capital and/or credit markets; interest rate and currency value fluctuations; changes in monetary, 

fiscal or economic policy; the degree of competition in the geographic and business areas in which we operate; changes in laws or in supervisory expectations or 

requirements, including capital, interest rate and liquidity requirements and guidance; judicial or regulatory proceedings; the accuracy and completeness of the information 

we obtain with respect to our customers and counterparties; our ability to execute our strategic plans and to complete and integrate acquisitions; critical accounting 

estimates and the effect of changes to accounting standards, rules and interpretations on these estimates; operational and infrastructure risks; changes to our credit 

ratings; general political conditions; global capital markets activities; the possible effects on our business of war or terrorist activities; disease or illness that affects local, 

national or international economies; natural disasters and disruptions to public infrastructure, such as transportation, communications, power 
or water supply; techno<
logical changes; and our ability to anticipate and effectively manage risks associated with all of the foregoing factors. 
We caution that the foregoing list is not exhaustive of all possible factors. Other factors could adversely affect our results. For more information, please see the 
discussion below, which outlines in detail certain key factors that may affect Bank of Montreal’s future results. When relying on forward-looking statements to make 

decisions with respect to Bank of Montreal, investors and others should carefully consider these factors, as well as other uncertainties and potential events, and the 

inherent uncertainty of forward-looking statements. Bank of Montreal does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, that may be 

made from time to time by the organization or on its behalf, except as required by law. The forward-looking information contained in this document is presented for the 

purpose of assisting our shareholders in understanding our financial position as at and for the periods ended on the dates presented, as well as our strategic priorities and 

objectives, and may not be appropriate for other purposes. 
Assumptions about the level of default and losses on default were material factors we considered when establishing our expectations regarding the fu
ture perform<
ance of the transactions into which our credit protection vehicle has entered. Among the key assumptions were that the level of default and losses on default will be 

consistent with historical experience. Material factors that were taken into account when establishing our expectations regarding the future risk of credit losses in our 

credit protection vehicle and risk of loss to Bank of Montreal included industry diversification in the portfolio, initial credit quality by portfolio, the first-loss protection 

incorporated into the structure and the hedges into which Bank of Montreal has entered. 
Assumptions about the performance of the Canadian and U.S. economies, as well as overall market conditions and their combined effect on our business, are 
material factors we consider when determining our strategic priorities, objectives and expectations for our business. In determining our expectations for economic growth, 

both broadly and in the financial services sector, we primarily consider historical economic data provided by the Canadian and U.S. governments and their agencies. See 

the Economic Developments and Outlook section of this document. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
29        
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Factors That May Affect Future Results; ;
MD&A As noted in the preceding Caution Regarding Forward-Looking State<
ments, all forward-looking statements and information, by their nature, 

are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, 

which may cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations 

expressed in any forward-looking statement. The Enterprise-Wide Risk 

Management section starting on page 77 describes a number of risks, 

including credit and counterparty, market, liquidity and funding, opera<

tional, insurance, legal and regulatory, business, model, strategic, reputa<

tion, and environmental and social. That section also highlights top and 

emerging risks, including challenges linked to the slow-growth economy, 

heightened regulatory requirements, Canadian household debt, Eurozone 

challenges, U.S. political gridlock and information and cyber security risk. 

Should our risk management framework prove ineffective, there could be 

a material adverse impact on our financial position. The sections that 

follow outline some additional risks and uncertainties. 
General Economic and Market Conditions in the Countries 
in which We Conduct Business 
We conduct business in Canada, the United States and other countries. 

Factors such as the general health of capital and/or credit markets, 

including liquidity, level of activity, volatility and stability, could have 

a material impact on our business. As well, interest rates, foreign 

exchange rates, consumer saving and spending, housing prices, 

consumer borrowing and repayment, business investment, government 

spending and the rate of inflation affect the business and economic 

environments in which we operate. Therefore, the amount of business 

we conduct in a specific geographic region and its local economic and 

business conditions may have an effect on our revenues and earnings. 

For example, a regional economic decline may result in an increase in 

credit losses, a decrease in loan growth and reduced capital markets 

activity. In addition, the financial services industry is characterized by 

interrelations among financial services companies. As a result, defaults 

by other financial services companies in Canada, the United States or 

other countries could adversely affect our earnings. Given the inter<

connectedness of global financial markets and the importance of trade 

flows, deterioration of the still-unresolved European sovereign debt 

situation could affect the supply and cost of credit and constrain the 

pace of economic growth in North America. 
Fiscal, Monetary and Interest Rate Policies 
Our earnings are affected by fiscal, monetary, interest rate and economic 

policies that are adopted by Canadian, U.S. and other regulatory author<

ities. Such policies can have the effect of increasing or reducing competi<

tion and uncertainty in the markets. Such policies may also adversely 

affect our customers and counterparties in the countries in which we 

operate, causing a greater risk of default by these customers and 

counterparties. As well, expectations in the bond and money markets 

about inflation and central bank monetary policy have an impact on the 

level of interest rates. Changes in market expectations and monetary 

policy are difficult to anticipate and predict. Fluctuations in interest rates 

that result from these changes can have an impact on our earnings. The 

current prolonged low interest rate policies have had a negative impact 

on results and a continuation of such policies would likely continue to 

pressure earnings. Refer to the Market Risk section on page 87 for a 

more complete discussion of our interest rate risk exposures. As dis<

cussed in our Critical Accounting Estimates section, a reduction in income 

tax rates could lower the value of our deferred tax asset. 
Changes in Laws, Regulations and Approach to Supervision 

Regulators in Canada, the United States and elsewhere are very active 

on a number of fronts, including consumer protection, capital markets 

activities, anti-money laundering, and the oversight and strengthening 

of risk management. 
Regulations are in place to protect our customers, investors and the 
public interest. Considerable changes in laws and regulations that relate 

to the financial services industry have been proposed and enacted, 

including changes related to capital and liquidity requirements. Changes 

in laws and regulations, including their interpretation and application, 

and changes in approaches to supervision could adversely affect our 

earnings. For example, such changes could limit the products or services 

we can provide and the manner in which we provide them and, poten<

tially, lower our ability to compete, while also increasing the costs of 

compliance. As such, they could have a negative impact on earnings and 

return on equity. These changes could also affect the levels of capital 

and liquidity we choose to maintain. In particular, the Basel III global 

standards for capital and liquidity, which are discussed in the Enterprise-

Wide Capital Management and the Liquidity and Funding Risk sections 

that start on pages 61 and 92, respectively, and implementation of the 

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which is 
discussed in the U.S. Regulatory Developments section on page 69, will 

have an impact on our results and activities. Other regulatory develop<

ments are discussed in the Market Risk section on page 87 and liquidity 

and funding risk is discussed starting on page 61. In addition to the 

factors outlined here, our failure to comply with laws and regulations 

could result in sanctions and financial penalties that could adversely 

affect our strategic flexibility, reputation and earnings. 
Execution of Strategy 
Our financial performance is influenced by our ability to execute 

strategic plans developed by management. If these strategic plans do 

not meet with success or if there is a change in these strategic plans, 

our earnings could grow at a slower pace or decline. In addition, our 

ability to execute our strategic plans is dependent to a large extent on 

our ability to attract, develop and retain key executives, and there is no 

assurance we will continue to do so successfully. 
Acquisitions We conduct thorough due diligence before completing an acquisition. 

However, it is possible that we might make an acquisition that sub<

sequently does not perform in line with our financial or strategic 

objectives. Our ability to successfully complete an acquisition may be 

subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals and we may not be able 

to determine when or if, or on what terms, the necessary approvals will 

be granted. Changes in the competitive and economic environment as 

well as other factors may lower revenues, while higher than anticipated 

integration costs and failure to realize expected cost savings could also 

adversely affect our earnings after an acquisition. Integration costs may 

increase as a result of increased regulatory costs related to an acquis<

ition, unanticipated costs that were not identified in the due diligence 

process or more significant demands on management time than antici<

pated, as well as unexpected delays in implementing certain plans that 

in turn lead to delays in achieving full integration. Our post-acquisition 

performance is also contingent on retaining the clients and key 

employees of acquired companies, and there can be no assurance that 

we will always succeed in doing so. 
30 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Level of Competition 
The level of competition among financial services companies is high. 

Furthermore, non-financial companies have increasingly been offering 

services traditionally provided by banks. Customer loyalty and retention 

can be influenced by a number of factors, including service levels, prices 

for products or services, our reputation and the actions of our com<

petitors. Also, laws and regulations enacted by regulatory authorities in 

the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate may 

provide benefits to our international competitors that could affect our 

ability to compete. Changes in these factors or any subsequent loss of 

market share could adversely affect our earnings. 
Currency Rates 
The Canadian dollar equivalents of our revenues, expenses, assets and 

liabilities denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar are 

subject to fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to 

those currencies. Changes in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to 

the U.S. dollar may also affect the earnings of our small business, corpo<

rate and commercial clients in Canada. A strengthening of the U.S. dollar 

could increase our risk-weighted assets, lowering our capital ratios. 

Refer to the Foreign Exchange section on page 38, the Enterprise-Wide 

Capital Management section on page 61 and the Market Risk section on 

page 87 for a more complete discussion of our foreign exchange risk 

exposures. Changes to Our Credit Ratings 
Credit ratings are important to our ability to raise both capital and 

funding to support our business operations. Maintaining strong credit 

ratings allows us to access the capital markets at competitive pricing. 

Should our credit ratings experience a material downgrade, our costs of 

funding would likely increase significantly and our access to funding and 

capital through capital markets could be reduced. A material downgrade 

of our ratings could also have other consequences, including those set 

out in Note 10 on page 147 of the financial statements. 
Operational and Infrastructure Risks 
We are exposed to many of the operational risks that affect large enter<

prises conducting business in multiple jurisdictions. Such risks include the 

risk of fraud by employees or others, unauthorized transactions by 

employees, and operational or human error. We face the risk of loss due to 

cyber attack and also face the risk that computer or telecommunications 

systems could fail, despite our efforts to maintain these systems in good 

working order. Some of our services (such as online banking) or operations 

may face the risk of interruption or other security risks arising from the risks 

related to the use of the internet in these services or operations, which 

may impact our customers and infrastructure. Given the high volume of 

transactions we process on a daily basis, certain errors may be repeated or 

compounded before they are discovered and rectified. Shortcomings or 

failures of our internal processes, employees or systems, or those provided 

by third parties, including any of our financial, accounting or other data 

processing systems, could lead to financial loss and damage to our reputa<

tion. In addition, despite the contingency plans we have in place, our ability 

to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infra<

structure that supports both our operations and the communities in which 

we do business, including but not limited to disruption caused by public 

health emergencies or terrorist acts. Refer to the Information and Cyber 

Security Risk section on page 79 for more information. 
Judicial or Regulatory Judgments and Legal and 
Regulatory Proceedings 
We take reasonable measures to comply with the laws and regulations 

of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Should these meas<

ures prove not to be effective, it is possible that we could be subject 

to a judicial or regulatory judgment or decision which results in fines, 

damages, other costs or restrictions that would adversely affect our 

earnings and reputation. We are also subject to litigation arising in the 

ordinary course of our business. The unfavourable resolution of any 

litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 

Damage to our reputation could also result, harming our future busi<

ness prospects. Information about certain legal and regulatory pro<

ceedings we currently face is provided in Note 28 on page 177 of the 

financial statements. 
Critical Accounting Estimates and Accounting Standards 
We prepare our financial statements in accordance with IFRS. Changes 

by the International Accounting Standards Board to international finan<

cial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of 

our financial statements can be difficult to anticipate and may materially 

affect how we record and report our financial results. Significant 

accounting policies and future changes in accounting policies are dis<

cussed in Note 1 on page 130 of the financial statements. 
The application of IFRS requires that management make significant 
judgments and estimates that can affect when certain assets, liabilities, 

revenues and expenses are recorded in our financial statements and 

their recorded values. In making these judgments and estimates, we 

rely on the best information available at the time. However, it is 

possible that circumstances may change or new information may 

become available. 
Our financial results would be affected in the period in which any 
such new information or change in circumstances became apparent, and 

the extent of the impact could be significant. More information is 

included in the discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates on page 70. 
Accuracy and Completeness of Customer and 
Counterparty Information 
When deciding to extend credit or enter into other transactions with 

customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided by 

or on behalf of those customers and counterparties, including audited 

financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely 

on representations made by customers and counterparties that the 

information they provide is accurate and complete. Our financial 

results could be adversely affected if the financial statements or other 

financial information provided by customers and counterparties is 

materially misleading. 
Other Factors 
Other factors beyond our control that may affect our future results are 

noted in the Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements on page 29. 
We caution that the preceding discussion of factors that may affect 
future results is not exhaustive. When relying on forward-looking state<

ments to make decisions with respect to BMO, investors and others 

should carefully consider these factors, as well as other uncertainties, 

potential events and industry and company-specific factors that may 

adversely affect future results. We do not undertake to update any 

forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, that may be made 

from time to time by us or on our behalf, except as required by law. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
31    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Economic Developments and Outlook; ;
MD&A Economic and Financial Services Developments in 2013 
After slowing in 2012, the rate of economic growth in Canada remained 
modest at approximately 1.7% in 2013, keeping the unemployment rate 

around 7%. Sluggish global demand and a strong currency restrained 

exports, while lower commodity prices dampened investment in the 

resource sector. Elevated debt levels curbed personal loan growth, 

despite record numbers of motor vehicle sales. Housing market activity 

and residential mortgage growth moderated, but show signs of 

stabilizing as most housing markets across the country are well bal<

anced. Despite a decline in business investment, loan demand remained 

strong in response to low interest rates and attractive financing con<

ditions. Demand for non-residential mortgages has been supported by 

low commercial real estate vacancy rates. Personal deposit growth 

moderated, in part reflecting depositors’ preference for higher-yielding 

assets. Despite a decline in corporate profits, business deposit growth 

strengthened in response to increased economic uncertainty. The Bank 

of Canada held its overnight interest rate target at 1% for a third 

consecutive year, while longer-term interest rates rose in anticipation of 

less expansionary monetary policies in the United States. 
The rate of economic growth in the United States slowed to approx<
imately 1.7% in 2013 from 2.8% in 2012, largely in response to restrictive 

fiscal policies. Business investment and exports also moderated, while 

growth in consumer spending remained modest despite a slight uptick in 

consumer loans. Residential construction improved on firmer home sales, 

supporting mortgage growth. The Federal Reserve maintained its near-zero 

interest rate policy, but expectations t
hat it will reduce the rate of its asset 

purchases have put upward pressure on longer-term interest rates. In the 

Midwest, where most of our U.S. operations are located, the economy grew 

in line with the modest average national growth in 2013, as continued 

expansion in the automobile sector and a recovery in housing activity offset 

restrictive fiscal policies and slower global demand. While the Eurozone 

appears to have emerged from recession, rates of growth remain weak. 

China’s economy is stabilizing at a rate of growth that is still strong, but 

lowerthaninthe past. 
Economic and Financial Services Outlook for 2014 
Economic growth in Canada is expected to strengthen to 2.3% in the 

coming year, led by growth in exports in response to an improving 

U.S. economy and a weaker Canadian dollar. Firmer commodity prices 
should support growth in business investment and loans, while bolstering 

activity in the resource-producing provinces in Western Canada. However, 

high levels of household debt will likely continue to dampen consumer 

spending and housing market activity, restraining personal loan and 

mortgage growth. Growth in the economy should reduce the unemploy<

ment rate to 6.6% by year end, while encouraging the Bank of Canada to 

raise interest rates in early 2015. Higher interest rates should eventually 

support the Canadian dollar, although a sizeable trade deficit will likely 

keep the currency below parity with the U.S. dollar in 2014. 
Economic growth in the United States is projected to strengthen to 
2.7% in 2014, as fiscal restraint subsides, reducing the unemployment 

rate to below 7%. Low interest rates, improved household finances and 

pent-up demand, especially for automobiles, should lift consumer 

spending and encourage a pickup in personal loans. Residential mort<

gage growth should continue to be supported by the ongoing housing 

market recovery, which is benefiting from still-healthy levels of afford-

ability despite the recent upturn in mortgage rates. Lower vacancy rates 

for commercial and industrial properties should encourage growth in 

non-residential construction. Continued low interest rates and easier 

credit conditions will likely continue to support growth in business 

investment and loans. While the Federal Reserve is expected to keep 

overnight interest rates unchanged for a sixth consecutive year in 

response to low rates of inflation, it will likely stop purchasing assets in 

the second half of the year, resulting in further moderate upward pres<

sure on long-term rates. The U.S. Midwest economy is expected to grow 

in line with the national economy, supported by increasing automobile 

production and firmer global demand. 
Real Growth in Gross 
Domestic Product 
(%) 2.8 2.7 2.5 2.3 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.7 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 
Canada˜˜United States˜ ˜
*Forecast The Canadian and U.S. economies are expected to strengthen in 2014. Housing Starts 
(in thousands) 
250 
1500 1000 
200 
500150 
100 
0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13*14* 
Canada˜˜United States˜ ˜
*Forecast Housing market activity should 
moderate in Canada but strengthen 

in the United States in 2014.   
Canadian and U.S. 
Interest Rates 
(%) 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 
0.13 0.130.13
0.13 Jan Oct 
Oct Oct 
2012 2012 
2013 2014* 
Canadian overnight rate 
U.S. 
federal funds rate 
*Forecast Central banks are expected to keep 
interest rates very low in 2014. 
Canadian and U.S. 
Unemployment Rates 
(%) 8.3 7.97.5 7.4 7.3 6.9 6.6 6.6 Jan Oct 
Oct Oct 
2012 2012 
2013 2014* 
Canada United States 
*Forecast Unemployment rates in Canada and the United States are expected to 
decline in 2014. Consumer Price Index 
Inflation 
(%) 3.1 2.9 2.1 1.5 1.51.4 1.3 0.9 2011 2012 2013* 2014* Canada United States 
*Forecast Inflation is expected to rise but still 
remain low in 2014. 
Canadian/U.S. Dollar 
Exchange Rates 
1.08 1.04 1.01 0.99 Jan Oct Oct Oct 2012 2012 2013 2014* *Forecast The Canadian dollar is expected 
to remain below parity with the 

U.S. dollar in 2014. Note: Data points are averages for the month or
 year, as appropriate. References to years are 
calendar years. 32 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
  Value Measures 
Total Shareholder Return 
The average annual total shareholder return (TSR) is a key measure of 
shareholder value, since it assesses our success in achieving our guiding 

principle of delivering top-tier shareholder returns. Over the past five 

years, shareholders have earned an average annual TSR of 17.0% on 

their investment in BMO common shares, second among our Canadian 

peer group. Our one-year TSR of 28.8% was the highest among our 

Canadian peer group, and our three-year average TSR was 11.5%. 
The table below summarizes dividends paid on BMO common 
shares over the past five years and the movements in BMO’s share 

price. An investment of $1,000 in Bank of Montreal common shares 

made at the beginning of fiscal 2009 would have been worth $2,192 at 

October 31, 2013, assuming reinvestment of dividends, for a total return 

of 119.2%. 
Five-Year Average Annual Total Shareholder Return (%) All returns represent total returns. BMO 
common
 shares 
S&P/TSX Financial Services
 Index 
S&P/TSX Composite
 Index 
S&P 500
 Index 
BMO outperformed the 
comparable Canadian indices. 15.2 9.7 12.9 17.0 All returns represent total returns. BMO common
 shares 
S&P/TSX Financial Services
 Index 
S&P/TSX Composite
 Index 
S&P 500
 Index 
BMO™s three-year average a
nnual return was strong
. 16.6 4.8 12.0 11.5 Three-Year Average Annual 

Total Shareholder Return 
(%) One-Year Total 

Shareholder Return 
(%) All returns represent total returns. BMO 
common
 shares 
S&P/TSX Financial Services
 Index 
S&P/TSX Composite
 Index 
S&P 500
 Index 
BMO™s TSR was the highest 
among our Canadian peer 
group. 27.2 11.0 25.4 28.8 Total Shareholder Return 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
On December 3, 2013, BMO announced that the Board of Directors 
had declared a quarterly dividend payable to common shareholders of 
$0.76 per common share, an increase of $0.02 per share from the 

preceding quarter and up $0.04 from a year ago. The dividend is payable 

February 26, 2014 to shareholders of record on February 3, 2014. Pre<

viously, we had increased our quarterly dividend declared to $0.74 per 

common share for the second quarter of 2013. Our quarterly dividend 

declared was $0.72 per common share for the fourth quarter of 2012 

and the first quarter of 2013. Dividends paid over five-year and ten-year 

periods have increased at average annual compound rates of 0.8% and 

8.5%, respectively. 
The average annual total 
shareholder return (TSR) 
represents the average 
annual total return earned 
on an investment in Bank of 
Montreal common shares 
made at the beginning of a 
fixed period. The return 
includes the change in share 
price and assumes that 
dividends received were 
reinvested in additional 
common shares. The one-
year TSR also assumes that 
dividends were reinvested in 
shares. 3-year 5-year CAGR (1) CAGR (1) MD&A Closing market price per common share 
($) 72.62 59.02 58.89 60.23 50.06 
6.4% 11.0% 
Dividends paid 
($ per share) 
2.92 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 
1.4% 0.8% 
Dividends paid 
(%) (2) 
4.9 4.8 4.6 5.6 6.5 
Increase (decrease) in share price 
(%) 23.0 0.2 (2.2) 20.3 16.4 
Total annual shareholder return 
(%) 28.8 5.2 2.4 26.4 25.1 
11.5 17.0 
Total annual shareholder return assumes reinvestment of quarterly dividends and therefore does not equal the sum of dividend and share price returns 
in the table. 
(1) Compound annual growth rate (CAGR) expressed as a percentage. 
(2) As a percentage of the closing market price in the prior year. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
33 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Non-GAAP Measures 
Results and measures in this MD&A are presented on a GAAP basis. They 
are also presented on an adjusted basis that excludes the impact of 

certain items as set out in the following table. Management assesses 

performance on a reported basis and on an adjusted basis and considers 

both to be useful in assessing underlying ongoing business performance. 

Presenting results on both bases provides readers with a better under<

standing of how management assesses results. It also permits readers 

to assess the impact of certain specified items on results for the periods 

presented and to better assess results excluding those items if they 

consider the items to not be reflective of ongoing results. As such, the 
(Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 
presentation may facilitate readers’ analysis of trends, as well as 

comparisons with our competitors. Adjusted results and measures are 

non-GAAP and as such do not have standardized meaning under GAAP. 

They are unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by 

other companies and should not be viewed in isolation from or as a 

substitute for GAAP results. 
Net economic profit represents net income available to common 
shareholders, before deduction for the after-tax impact of the amor<

tization of acquisition-related intangible assets, less a charge for capital, 

and is considered a reasonable measure of added economic value. 
2013 2012 2011 
Reported Results 
Revenue 16,263 16,130 13,943 Provision for credit losses 
(589) (765) (1,212) Non-interest expense (10,297) (10,238) (8,741) Income before income taxes 
5,377 5,127 3,990 Provision for income taxes 
(1,129) (938) (876) Net income 
4,248 4,189 3,114 EPS ($) 6.26 6.15 4.84 Adjusting Items (Pre-tax) 
(1)??Credit-related items on the M&I purchased performing loan portfolio 
(see below*) 
406 407 173??
M&I integration costs 
(2) (251) (402) (131)??
M&I acquisition-related costs 
– – (87)??
Hedge of foreign exchange risk on purchase of M&I 
(3) – – (20)??
Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 
(4) (125) (134) (70)??
Decrease (increase) in the collective allowance for credit losses 
(5) 2 82 (6)??
Run-off structured credit activities 
(6) 40 264 (50)??
Restructuring charge 
(7) (82) (173) –??
Adjusting items included in reported pre-tax income> >
(10) 44 (191) 
Adjusting Items (After tax) 
(1)??Credit-related items on the M&I purchased performing loan portfolio 
(see below*) 
250 251 107??
M&I integration costs 
(2) (155) (250) (84)??
M&I acquisition-related costs 
– – (62)??
Hedge of foreign exchange risk on purchase of M&I 
(3) – – (14)??
Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 
(4) (89) (96) (54)??
Decrease (increase) in the collective allowance for credit losses 
(5) (9) 53 (4)??
Run-off structured credit activities 
(6) 34 261 (50)??
Restructuring charge 
(7) (59) (122) –??
Adjusting items included in reported net income after tax 
(28) 97 (161) Impact on EPS 
($) (0.04) 0.15 (0.26) Adjusted Results 

Revenue 15,572 15,067 13,742 Provision for credit losses 
(359) (471) (1,108) Non-interest expense (9,826) (9,513) (8,453) Income before income taxes 
5,387 5,083 4,181 Provision for income taxes 
(1,111) (991) (906) Adjusted net income 
4,276 4,092 3,275 EPS ($) 6.30 6.00 5.10 *Credit-related items on the M&I purchased performing loan portfolio are comprised of the following amounts: 
Revenue (8) 638 783 271 Provision for credit losses 
Specific provisions for credit losses 
(240) 
(291) (18) Decrease (increase) in the collective allowance 
8 (85) (80) Increase in pre-tax income 
406 407 173 Provision for income taxes 
(156) (156) (66) Increase in reported net income after tax 
250 251 107 Adjusted results and measures in this table are non-GAAP amounts or non-GAAP measures. 
(1) Adjusting items are included in Corporate Services with the exception of the amortization of 
acquisition-related intangible assets, which is charged to the operating groups. 
(2) Included in non-interest expense, M&I integration costs in 2013 consist of amounts related 

to system conversions and post-conversion activities, marketing costs in connection with 

customer communications and rebranding activities, real estate costs, including write-

downs, consulting fees and restructuring charges. 
(3) Recorded as a charge to net interest income. 
(4) These expenses have been designated as adjusting items because the purchase decision 

may not consider the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets to be a relevant 

expense. They were charged to the non-interest expense of the operating groups as follows: 

–>In fiscal 2013: Canadian P&C $11 million ($10 million after tax); U.S. P&C $76 million 
($50 million after tax); Wealth Management $36 million ($27 million after tax); and BMO 

Capital Markets $2 million before and after tax; 
–>>In fiscal 2012: Canadian P&C $11 million ($10 million after tax); U.S. P&C $93 million 
($64 million after tax); Wealth Management $29 million ($21 million after tax); and BMO 

Capital Markets $1 million before and after tax; 
–>>In fiscal 2011: Canadian P&C $9 million before and after tax; U.S. P&C $48 million 
($35 million after tax); Wealth Management $12 million ($10 million after tax); and BMO 

Capital Markets $1 million before and after tax. 
(5) Changes in the collective allowance for credit losses on loans other than the M&I purchased 

performing loan portfolio. 
(6) Primarily comprised of valuation changes associated with these activities that are mainly 

included in trading revenue in non-interest revenue. 
(7) Restructuring charge to align our cost structure with the current and future business 

environment as part of a broader effort to improve productivity that is underway. 
(8) Recognition in net interest income of a portion of the credit mark on the M&I purchased 

performing loan portfolio. 
34 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Earnings per Share Growth 
The year-over-year percentage change in earnings per share (EPS) and 
in adjusted EPS are our key measures for analyzing earnings growth. All 

references to EPS are to diluted EPS, unless indicated otherwise. 
EPS was $6.26, up $0.11 or 2% from $6.15 in 2012. Adjusted EPS 
was $6.30, up $0.30 or 5% from $6.00 in 2012. Our three-year com<

pound average annual adjusted EPS growth rate was 9%, in line with 

our current medium-term objective of achieving average annual 

adjusted EPS growth of 7% to 10%. EPS growth in both 2013 and 2012 

reflected increased earnings. Adjusted net income available to common 

shareholders was 47% higher over the three-year period from the end 

of 2010, while the average number of diluted common shares out<

standing increased 15% over the same period, primarily due to the 

issuance of common shares on the acquisition of M&I in July 2011. 
Net income was $4,248 million in 2013, up $59 million from the 
previous year. Adjusted net income was $4,276 million, up $184 million 

or 5%. 
On an adjusted basis, there was good revenue growth and a 
decrease in provisions for credit losses in 2013. Higher revenues 

exceeded incremental costs, contributing to growth in net income. There 

was a higher effective income tax rate in 2013. 
There was significant adjusted net income growth in Wealth 
Management, good growth in Canadian P&C and BMO Capital Markets, 

with U.S. P&C relatively unchanged and a decline in Corporate Services. 
Canadian P&C reported net income increased $79 million or 4% to 
$1,854 million, with growth in balances and fees across most products, 

lower net interest margin and modest increases in expenses. Expenses 

rose due to continued investment in the business, including our dis<

tribution network, net of strong expense management. Canadian P&C 

results are discussed in the operating group review on page 47. 
Wealth Management adjusted net income increased significantly by 
$316 million or 58% to $861 million, with net income growth in both 

wealth and insurance businesses. Adjusted net income in the wealth 

businesses was $600 million, up $213 million or 55%. The significant 

increase in net income was driven by a security gain of $121 million and 

good growth of 23% in our other wealth businesses. Insurance net 

income increased as the prior year was impacted by unfavourable 

movements in long-term interest rates, and there was continued growth 

in both the underlying creditor and life insurance businesses. Wealth 

Management results are discussed in the operating group review on 

page 53. 
BMO Capital Markets reported net income increased $73 million or 
7% to $1,094 million. Improved results were driven by increases in 

trading revenues and investment banking fees and higher recoveries of 

credit losses, partially offset by an increase in expenses resulting from 
stronger revenue performance and increased technology and support 

costs related to a changing business and regulatory environment. BMO 

Capital Markets results are discussed in the operating group review on 

page 56. 
U.S. P&C adjusted net income was relatively unchanged, with a 
decline of $8 million or 1% to $633 million on a U.S. dollar basis. Lower 

provisions for credit losses and a reduction in adjusted expenses were 

more than offset by lower revenue. Revenue declined as the benefits of 

strong core commercial and industrial loan and deposit growth and 

higher commercial lending fees were more than offset by the effects of 

lower net interest margin, reductions in certain portfolios and lower 

deposit and debit card fees. U.S. P&C results are discussed in the 

operating group review on page 50. 
Corporate Services adjusted loss was $191 million, compared with 
adjusted net income of $96 million in 2012, primarily due to lower 

revenues and growth in expenses. Adjusted revenues decreased 

primarily due to a group teb offset that was higher than the prior year 

and a decline in treasury-related items. Adjusted non-interest expense 

was higher, primarily due to increases in pension and benefit costs, and 

regulatory-related and technology costs. Adjusted recoveries of credit 

losses were lower, reflecting lower recoveries on the purchased credit 

impaired loan portfolio, offset in part by recoveries on the impaired real 

estate loan portfolio in 2013, compared to provisions in 2012. Corporate 

Services results are discussed in the operating group review on page 59. 

Changes to reported and adjusted net income for each of our operating 

groups are discussed in more detail in the 2013 Review of Operating 

Groups Performance, which starts on page 44. 
EPS ($) 2011 
2013 
2012 
Adjusted EPSEPS 4.84 5.10 6.15 6.00 6.26 6.30 Increases reflect a continued focus on the execution of our 
strategy and the benefits of 
diversification. Earnings per share (EPS) is calculated by dividing net 
income, after deduction of 
preferred dividends, by the 
average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS, 
which is our basis for measuring performance, adjusts for possible conversions of financial instruments into common 
shares if those conversions 
would reduce EPS, and is more 
fully explained in Note 25 on 
page 174 of the financial 
statements. Adjusted EPS is 
calculated in the same manner 
using adjusted net income. MD&A Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
35 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Net Economic Profit Growth 
Net economic profit (NEP) growth is another of our key value measures. 
NEP was $1,298 million in 2013, down $141 million or 10% from 2012. 

Adjusted NEP was $1,237 million, down $9 million or 1%. The decrease 

in both NEP and adjusted NEP is reflective of higher earnings in the 

current year being more than offset by a higher charge for capital, as 

a result of an increase in average common shareholders’ equity. NEP 

calculations are set out in the table that follows. 
Higher earnings in 2013 were more than offset by a higher 
charge for capital given higher 
capital levels. Net economic profit (NEP) 
represents net income 
available to common share<
holders before deduction for 
the after-tax impact of the 
amortization of acquisition-
related intangible assets, less 
a charge for capital. Adjusted 
NEP is a comparable measure 
that is instead computed with 
reference to adjusted net 
income. NEP is considered a 
reasonable measure of added 
economic value. NEP and 
adjusted NEP are non-GAAP 
measures. See page 34. 2011 
Adjusted NEPNEP NEP ($ millions) 2013 
2012 
941 1,048 1,439 1,246 1,2981,237 Net Economic Profit and Adjusted Net Economic Profit 
($ millions) 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net income available to common shareholders 
After-tax impact of the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 
4,063 89 3,979 96 2,895 54 2,674 32 1,667 35 Net income available to common shareholders after adjusting for the amortization of 
acquisition-related intangible assets 
Charge for capital 
(1) 4,152 (2,854) 4,075 (2,636) 2,949 (2,008) 2,706 (1,888) 1,702 (1,770) Net economic profit 
1,298 1,439 941 818 (68) Add back: after-tax impact of adjusting items, excluding after-tax impact of the amortization of 
acquisition-related intangible assets 
(61) (193) 107 – 474 Adjusted net economic profit 
1,237 1,246 1,048 818 406 2010 and prior are based on CGAAP. 
(1) The charge for capital is calculated by applying the cost of capital of 10.5% to average common shareholders’ equity. 
NEP and adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
Return on Equity Return on equity (ROE) is the last of our four key value measures. ROE 
was 14.9% in 2013 and adjusted ROE was 15.0%, compared with 15.9% 

and 15.5%, respectively, in 2012. There was an increase of $84 million 

in earnings ($209 million in adjusted earnings) available to common 

shareholders in 2013. Average common shareholders’ equity increased 

by $2.1 billion from 2012, primarily due to internally-generated capital. 

Adjusted ROE of 15.0% was in line with our medium-term objective of 

earning an average annual adjusted ROE of 15% to 18%. BMO has 

achieved an ROE of 13% or better in 23 of the past 24 years. Table 3 

on page 106 includes ROE statistics for the past 10 years. 
ROE (%) ROE has been consistently strong. 
Return on common 
shareholders’ equity (ROE) 

is calculated as net income, 

less non-controlling interest in 

subsidiaries and preferred 

dividends, as a percentage of 

average 
common shareholders’ 
equity. Common shareholders’ 

equity is comprised of common 
share capital, contributed 

surplus, accumulated other 

comprehensive income 

(loss) and retained earnings. 

Adjusted ROE is calculated 
using adjusted net income 
rather than net income. Adjusted ROE 16.0 15.9 15.5 ROE 2011 
2013 
2012 
15.1 14.9 15.0 Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
36 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
2013 Financial Performance Review 
This section provides a review of our enterprise financial performance for 2013 that focuses on the Consolidated Statement of Income included in our 
consolidated financial statements, which begin on page 125. A review of our operating groups’ strategies and performance follows the enterprise 

review. A summary of the enterprise financial performance for 2012 appears on page 100. This section contains adjusted results, which are non-GAAP 

and are disclosed in more detail in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
Highlights ‰Revenue increased $133 million in 2013 to $16,263 million. Adjusted 

revenue increased $505 million or 3% to $15,572 million. The 

increase was primarily due to revenue growth in Wealth Manage<

ment, BMO Capital Markets and Canadian P&C, and continues to 

demonstrate the benefits of our diversified business mix and 

successful execution against our strategic priorities. 
‰RevenuegrowthinCanadianP&Creflectedgrowthinbalancesand 

fees across most products, offset in part by lower net interest mar<

gin. There was strong revenue growth in wealth businesses, driven 

by growth in client assets, a security gain and the benefit of recent 

acquisitions. Insurance revenue increased as the prior year was 

impacted by unfavourable movements in long-term interest rates, 

and there was continued growth in both the underlying creditor and 

life insurance businesses. BMO Capital Markets revenues grew, 

driven by increases in trading revenues and investment banking 

fees, particularly from our U.S. Platform. U.S. P&C revenue declined 

as the benefits of strong growth in core commercial and industrial 

loans and deposits and higher commercial lending fees were more 

than offset by the effects of lower net interest margin, reductions in 

certain portfolios and lower deposit and debit card fees. 
‰Provisions for credit losses totalled $589 million in the current year, 

down from $765 million in 2012. Adjusted provisions for credit 

losses totalled $359 million, down from $471 million in 2012 due 

to reduced provisions in all of our operating groups, offset in part 

by lower recoveries on the purchase
dcreditimpairedloanportfolio. 
‰Adjusted non-interest expense increased modestly, primarily due to 

higher employee-related costs, including continued investment in 

the business related to increases in front-line roles, higher benefit 

costs, including pension, and higher severance and regulatory costs. 
‰The effective income tax rate in 2013 was 21.0%, compared with 

18.3% in 2012. The adjusted effective income tax rate
(1) 
was 20.6%, compared with 19.5% in 2012. The higher adjusted effec<

tive rate in 2013 was mainly attributable to lower recoveries of 

prior periods’ income taxes. 
(1) The adjusted rate is computed using adjusted net income rather than net income in the 

determination of income subject to tax. 
MD&A Impact of Business Acquisitions 
BMO Financial Group has selectively acquired a number of businesses, 

as outlined in Note 12 on page 155 of the financial statements. These 

acquisitions increase revenues and expenses, affecting year-over-year 

comparisons of operating results. The adjacent table outlines the impact 

of these acquisitions on BMO’s revenue, non-interest expense and net 

income for 2013 and 2012 to assist in analyzing changes in results. The 

effect on net income includes the impact of provisions for credit losses 

and income taxes, which are not disclosed separately in the table. 
For 2013, business acquisitions contributed $46 million of revenues 
and $47 million of non-interest expenses, including acquisition and 

integration costs, for a net loss of $1 million. 
Impact of Business Acquisitions on Operating Results 
(1) ($ millions) 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 Total revenue 
46 6 Non-interest expense (2) 47 14 Net loss 
(1) (5) (1) Results for both 2013 and 2012 include the results of the acquired Asia-based wealth 

management business, COFCO Trust Co. and CTC Consulting, LLC, which are part of our Wealth 

Management reporting segment. Results for 2013 also include the results of Aver Media LP, 

which is part of our Canadian P&C reporting segment. 
(2) Non-interest expense in 2013 and 2012 includes acquisition and integration costs in respect 

of the acquired businesses. 
Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
37 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Foreign Exchange The U.S. dollar was stronger compared to the Canadian dollar at 
October 31, 2013 than at October 31, 2012. BMO’s U.S.-dollar<

denominated assets and liabilities are translated at year-end rates. The 

average exchange rate over the course of 2013, which is used in the 

translation of BMO’s U.S.-dollar-denominated revenues and expenses, 

was higher in 2013 than in 2012. Consequently, the Canadian dollar 

equivalents of BMO’s U.S.-dollar-denominated net income, revenues, 

expenses, recoveries of credit losses and income taxes in 2013 were 

increased relative to the preceding year. The table below indicates 

average Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rates in 2013, 2012 and 2011 

and the impact of changes in the average rates. At October 31, 2013, 

the Canadian dollar traded at $1.043 per U.S. dollar. It traded at $0.999 

per U.S. dollar at October 31, 2012. 
Changes in the exchange rate will affect future results measured in 
Canadian dollars and the impact on those results is a function of the 

periods in which revenues, expenses and provisions for (recoveries of) 

credit losses arise. If future results are consistent with results in 2013, 

each one cent increase (decrease) in the Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange 

rate, expressed in terms of how many Canadian dollars one U.S. dollar 

buys, would be expected to increase (decrease) the Canadian dollar 

equivalent of U.S.-dollar-denominated adjusted net income before 

income taxes for the year by $15 million in the absence of hedging 

transactions. 
BMO may execute transactions to mitigate the impact of foreign 
exchange rate movements on net income. 
Effects of Changes in Exchange Rates on BMO’s Reported 
and Adjusted Results 
2013 vs. 
2012 vs. 
($ millions, except as noted) 
2012 2011 Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate (average) 
2013 1.024 
2012 1.003 1.003 2011 0.985 Effects on reported results 
Increased net interest income 
66 70 Increased non-interest revenue 
42 30 Increased revenues 
108 100 Increased expenses 
(74) (63) Decreased (increased) provisions for credit losses 
1 (4) Increased income taxes 
(5) (3) Increased reported net income before impact of 
hedges 30 30 Hedging losses 
(14) (1) Income taxes thereon 
4 – Increased reported net income 
20 29 Effects on adjusted results 
Increased net interest income 
53 56 Increased non-interest revenue 
42 30 Increased revenues 
95 86 Increased expenses 
(66) (56) Decreased provisions for credit losses 
4 3 Increased income taxes 
(4) (3) Increased adjusted net income before impact of 
hedges 29 30 Hedging losses 
(14) (1) Income taxes thereon 
4 – Increased adjusted net income 
19 29 Revenue Revenue increased $133 million in 2013 to $16,263 million. 
Amounts in the rest of this Revenue section are stated on an 
adjusted basis. 
Adjusted revenue increased $505 million or 3% to $15,572 million 
due to growth in Wealth Management, BMO Capital Markets and Cana<
dian P&C. The stronger U.S. dollar added $81 million or 1% to adjusted 

revenue growth, net of hedging impacts. BMO analyzes revenue at the 

consolidated level based on GAAP revenues as reported in the financial 

statements, and on an adjusted basis. Consistent with our Canadian peer 

group, we analyze revenue on a taxable equivalent basis (teb) at the 

operating group level. The teb adjustments for 2013 totalled 

$344 million, up from $266 million in 2012. 
Adjusted revenue excludes the portion of the credit mark recorded 
in net interest income on the M&I purchased performing loan portfolio 

and income or losses from run-off structured credit activities for 2013, 

2012 and 2011; and the hedge of foreign exchange risk on the M&I 

purchase in 2011, all of which are recorded in Corporate Services, as 

discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
Canadian P&C revenue increased $129 million or 2% as the growth 
in balances and fees across most products was partially offset by lower 

net interest margin. Revenue improved, growing by more than 4% in 

the second half of the year. Wealth Management revenue increased 

$549 million or 19%. Revenue in wealth businesses increased 16%, 

reflecting strong performance driven by growth in client assets, a secu<

rity gain and the benefit of recent acquisitions. Insurance revenue 

increased 49%, as the prior year was impacted by unfavourable 

movements in long-term interest rates, and there was continued growth 

in both the underlying creditor and life insurance businesses. BMO 

Capital Markets revenue increased $152 million or 5% to $3,428 million, 

driven by increases in trading revenues and investment banking fees, 

particularly from our U.S. platform. U.S. P&C revenue decreased US$144 

million or 5% as the benefits of strong core commercial and industrial 

loan and deposit growth and higher commercial lending fees were more 

than offset by the effects of lower net interest margin, reductions in 

certain portfolios and lower deposit and debit card fees. Corporate Serv<

ices adjusted revenues decreased by $238 million or 69%, primarily due 

to an increase in the group teb offset and a decline in treasury-related 

items. Revenue and Adjusted Revenue 
($ millions, except as noted) 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011* 2010 2009 
Net interest income 
Year-over-year growth 
(%) Non-interest revenue Year-over-year growth 
(%) 8,545 (3) 
7,718 5 8,808 18 7,322 13 
7,474 20 6,469 8 6,235 12 6,004 9 5,570 10 5,494 7 Total revenue 
Year-over-year growth 
(%) 16,263 1 16,130 16 13,943 14 12,239 11 11,064 8 Adjusted net interest income 
Year-over-year growth 
(%) Adjusted non-interest revenue 
Year-over-year growth 
(%) 7,888 (2) 7,684 9 8,029 11 7,038 8 7,248 16 6,494 8 6,235 12 6,004 – 5,570 10 6,015 9 Total adjusted revenue 
Year-over-year growth 
(%) 15,572 3 15,067 10 13,742 12 12,239 6 11,585 9 * Growth rates for 2011 reflect growth based on CGAAP in 2010 and IFRS in 2011. 
Taxable equivalent basis (teb) 
Revenues of operating groups are 
presented in our MD&A on a taxable equivalent basis (teb). The teb 

adjustment increases GAAP revenues and the provision for income 

taxes by an amount that would increase revenues on certain tax-

exempt items to a level that would incur tax at the statutory rate, to 

facilitate comparisons. This adjustment is offset in Corporate Services. 
Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
38 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
          Net Interest Income 
Net interest income for the year was $8,545 million, a decrease of 

$263 million or 3% from 2012. Adjusted net interest income of 

$7,888 million was down 2% from 2012, due to a decline of 11 basis 

points in adjusted net interest margin to 1.63% in the current low 

interest rate environment. The impact of the stronger U.S. dollar 

increased adjusted net interest income by $53 million. 
Adjusted net interest income primarily excludes amounts for the 
recognition of a portion of the credit mark on the M&I purchased 

performing loan portfolio. 
BMO’s average earning assets increased $23.9 billion or 5% in 
2013, including a $3.8 billion increase as a result of the stronger U.S. 

dollar. There was strong growth in Canadian P&C and Wealth Manage<

ment, growth in BMO Capital Markets and U.S. P&C, and a reduction in 

Corporate Services. 
The main drivers of BMO’s overall net interest margin are the 
individual group margins, changes in the magnitude of each operating 

group’s average earning assets and changes in net interest income in 

Corporate Services. Changes are discussed in the 2013 Review of 

Operating Groups Performance section on page 44. 
Table 9 on page 110 and Table 10 on page 111 provide further 
details on net interest income and net interest margin. 
Net interest income 
is comprised of earnings on assets, such as 
loans and securities, including interest and dividend income and 
BMO’s share of income from investments accounted for using the 

equity method of accounting, less interest expense paid on liabilities, 

such as deposits. 
Net interest margin 
is the ratio of net interest income to average 
earning assets, expressed as a percentage or in basis points. 
MD&AAverage earning assets increased 5% and adjusted net 
interest margin decreased in the 
low-rate environment. 2011 2012 2013 
Average Earning Assets and 

Net Interest Margin 
Average earning assets ($ billions) Net interest margin (%) 
Adjusted net interest margin (%) Net Interest Income 
and Non-Interest Revenue* 
($ billions) 
Non-interest revenue Net interest income Adjusted non-interest revenue 
Adjusted net interest income 
Revenue increased in the year 
with net interest income slightly 
lower, due to lower net interest 
margin, and higher non-interest 
revenue. 2011 20132012 13.9 13.7 16.1 15.1 16.3 15.6 8.8 8.5 7.3 7.77.0 8.0 7.7 7.9 404 484460 1.79 1.77 1.74 1.911.85 1.63 7.5 6.5 6.5 7.2 *Numbers may not add due to rounding. Revenue 
Revenue by Country 
(%) Canada United States 
Other countries 
Wealth Management, BMO Capital Markets and Canadian 
P&C drove revenue growth. Revenue by country was consistent with the prior year. Revenue Adjusted revenue 72 26 2 3 63 34 2012 3 2013201120132011 2012 
64 33 13.9 16.316.1 15.615.1 13.7 ($ billions) Change in Net Interest Income, Average Earning Assets and Net Interest Margin 
Net interest income (teb) 
Average earning assets 
Net interest margin 
($ millions) 
Change ($ millions) 
Change (in basis points) 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 % 2013 2012 % 2013 2012 Change Canadian P&C 
4,429 4,365 1 170,847 156,231 9 259 279 (20) U.S. P&C 
2,378 2,456 (3) 58,369 55,857 4 407 440 (33) Personal and Commercial Banking (P&C) 
6,807 6,821 – 229,216 
212,088 8 297 322 (25) Wealth Management 
564 561 – 19,399 17,875 9 291 314 (23) BMO Capital Markets 
1,238 1,191 4 202,361 
193,889 4 61 
61 – Corporate Services, including Technology and Operations 
(721) (544) (33) 33,165 
36,353 (9) nm nm nm Total BMO adjusted 
7,888 8,029 (2) 484,141 
460,205 5 163 174 (11) Adjusting items impacting net interest income 
657 779 (16) na na na nm nm nm Total BMO reported 
8,545 8,808 (3) 484,141 
460,205 5 177 
191 (14) 
na – not applicable 
nm – not meaningful 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
39 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Non-Interest Revenue 
($ millions) 
Change from 2012 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 (%) Securities commissions and fees 
1,182 1,146 1,215 3 Deposit and payment service charges 
916 929 834 (1) 
Trading revenues 
849 1,025 549 (17) 
Lending fees 
715 641 593 12 Card fees 
724 708 689 2 Investment management and 
custodial fees 
726 725 496 – Mutual fund revenues 
799 647 633 23 Underwriting and advisory fees 
488 442 512 10 Securities gains, other than trading 
285 152 189 88 Foreign exchange, other than trading 
172 153 130 12 Insurance income 
445 335 283 33 Other 417 419 346 – Total BMO reported 
7,718 7,322 6,469 5 Total BMO adjusted 
7,684 7,038 6,434 9 Non-Interest Revenue 
Non-interest revenue, which comprises all revenues other than net 

interest income, was $7,718 million in 2013, an increase of $396 million 

or 5% from 2012. Adjusted non-interest revenue was $7,684 million, up 

$646 million or 9%, with the majority of the growth driven by strong 

performance in Wealth Management, as well as growth in BMO Capital 

Markets and Canadian P&C. 
Adjusted non-interest revenue excludes the income or losses 
from run-off structured credit activities, which are mainly included in 

trading revenues. Mutual fund revenues increased $152 million or 23% from 2012, 
driven by market appreciation and growth in new client assets. 
Securities gains increased $133 million or 88% from 2012 due to a 
security gain in Wealth Management, partially offset by lower invest<

ment security gains across the other operating groups. 
Insurance income increased $110 million or 33%, as the prior year 
was impacted by unfavourable movements in long-term interest rates, 

and there was continued growth in both the underlying creditor and life 

insurance businesses. 
Trading revenues decreased $176 million and are discussed in the 
trading-related revenues section that follows. 
Lending fees increased $74 million or 12%, primarily due to strong 
growth in North American P&C commercial and industrial loan portfolios 

and increased lending activity in BMO Capital Markets, largely in the 

United States. 
Underwriting and advisory fees increased $46 million or 10% from 
2012, resulting from better performance despite a weaker market. 
Securities commissions and fees increased $36 million or 3%. These 
revenues consist largely of brokerage commissions and fees within 

Wealth Management, which account for about three-quarters of the 

total, and institutional equity trading commissions within BMO Capital 

Markets. In Wealth Management, securities commissions and fees were 

up 10% due to growth in client assets and higher transaction volumes, 

partially offset by a decline in BMO Capital Markets revenue due to 

lower securities lending commissions. 
Income from foreign exchange, other than trading, increased 
$19 million or 12% from 2012, reflecting growth in Wealth Management 

and BMO Capital Markets. 
Other non-interest revenue balances were consistent with the 
prior year. 
Table 7 on page 108 provides further details on revenue and 
revenue growth. 
40 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Trading-Related Revenues 
Trading-related revenues are dependent on, among other things, the 
volume of activities undertaken for clients who enter into transactions 

with BMO to mitigate their risks or to invest. BMO earns a spread or 

profit on the net sum of its client positions by profitably managing, 

within prescribed limits, the overall risk of the net positions. On a lim<

ited basis, BMO also assumes proprietary positions with the intent of 

earning trading profits. 
Interest and non-interest trading-related revenues decreased 
$204 million or 17% to $1,026 million in 2013. Adjusted trading-related 

revenues were $972 million in 2013, up $22 million or 2%. Interest rate 

trading-related revenues increased $30 million or 7%, primarily due to 

increased client activity in our Canadian fixed income businesses. For<

eign exchange trading-related revenues were up $16 million or 6% from 

2012, primarily driven by market volatility. Equities trading-related 

revenues increased $86 million or 21%, primarily due to increased 

activity with corporate and investor clients and an improved market 

environment. Commodities trading-related revenues decreased 

$23 million, mainly due to lower activity in the crude and natural gas 

markets. Revenues from run-off structured credit activities totalling 
$34 million in 2013, compared to $284 million in 2012, are included in 

other trading revenues in the adjacent table. The decline was due to 

higher mark-to-market gains on the underlying assets in 2012. These 

revenues are adjusting items and are excluded from adjusted trading-

related revenues. 
The Market Risk section on page 87 provides more information on 
trading-related revenues. 
Trading-related revenues 
include net interest income and 
non-interest revenue earned from on and off-balance sheet posi<
tions undertaken for trading purposes. The management of these 

positions typically includes marking them to market on a daily 

basis. Trading-related revenues also include income (expense) and 

gains (losses) from both on-balance sheet instruments and interest 

rate, foreign exchange (including spot positions), equity, 

commodity and credit contracts. 
Interest and Non-Interest Trading-Related Revenues 
(1) ($ millions) 
Change (taxable equivalent basis) 
from 2012 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 (%) Interest rates 
479 449 388 
7;;Foreign exchange 
285 269 288 
6;;Equities 499 413 322 
21;;Commodities 43 66 40 
(35);;Other (2) 29 267 (126) 
(89);;Total (teb) 
1,335 1,464 912 (9) Teb offset 
309 234 190 32 Total 1,026 1,230 722 (17) Reported as: Net interest income 
486 439 363 11 Non-interest revenue – trading revenues 
849 1,025 549 (17) Total (teb) 
1,335 1,464 912 (9) Teb offset 
309 234 190 32 Total 1,026 1,230 722 (17) Adjusted net interest income net of teb 
offset 157 209 199 (25) Adjusted non-interest revenue – trading 
revenues 815 741 573 10 Adjusted total 
972 950 772 2 (1) Trading-related revenues are presented on a taxable equivalent basis. 
(2) Includes revenues from run-off structured credit activities of $34 million ($284 million in 
2012; loss of $25 million in 2011), which are adjusting items included in Corporate Services 

results, and hedging exposures in BMO’s structural balance sheet. 
MD&A Adjusted results in this Revenue section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
41 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Provision for Credit Losses 
The provision for credit losses (PCL) was $589 million in the current 
year, down from $765 million in 2012. Adjusted PCL was $359 million, 

down from $471 million in 2012. The decline in adjusted PCL reflects 

decreases in provisions in all of our operating groups, offset in part by 

lower recoveries on the purchased credit impaired loan portfolio. 
Adjusting items this year included a $240 million specific provision 
on the M&I purchased performing loan portfolio and a $10 million reduc<

tion in the collective allowance, compared to a $291 million specific 

provision on the M&I purchased performing loan portfolio and a 

$3 million increase in the collective allowance in 2012. 
Adjusted PCL in 2013 represents 0.14% of average net loans and 
acceptances, down from 0.21% in 2012. PCL as a percentage of average 

net loans and acceptances also declined to 0.22% in 2013 from 0.31% 

in 2012. This ratio, excluding amounts related to the purchased loan 

portfolios, fell to 0.32% in 2013 from 0.42% in 2012. These positive 

ratio trends reflect lower provisions across both our consumer and 

commercial loan portfolios and all our operating groups, compared 

to 2012. 
On an operating group basis, most of our provisions relate to 
Personal and Commercial Banking. In Canadian P&C, PCL decreased by 

$41 million to $574 million in 2013, driven by lower provisions in the 

consumer loan portfolio. U.S. P&C PCL was $223 million, down 

$51 million from 2012, primarily reflecting better credit quality in the 

consumer loan portfolio. Wealth Management PCL was $3 million in 

2013, a decrease of $19 million from the previous year, which included 

a larger than usual write-down on a single commercial account. BMO 

Capital Markets recorded a net recovery of $36 million, an improvement 

over the $6 million provision in 2012, as a result of higher recoveries of 

previously written-off amounts. Corporate Services adjusted recoveries 

of credit losses of $405 million in 2013 were down from $446 million in 

2012, reflecting lower recoveries on the purchased credit impaired loan 

portfolio of $410 million in 2013, compared to $509 million in the pre<

vious year, offset in part by recoveries on the impaired real estate loan 

portfolio in 2013, compared to provisions in 2012. 
On a geographic basis, the majority of our provisions relate to our 
Canadian loan portfolio. Specific PCL in Canada and other countries 

(excluding the United States) was $568 million, compared to 

$611 million in 2012. Adjusted specific PCL in the United States was a 

recovery of $209 million, up from a $140 million recovery in 2012, 

reflecting a better credit environment, partially offset by lower recov<

eries of credit losses on the purchased credit impaired loans. Note 4 on 

page 137 of the financial statements provides PCL information on a 

geographic basis. Table 19 on page 118 provides further PCL segmenta<

tion information. 
Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section 

on page 34. 
Provision for Credit Losses 
For the year ended October 31 

(Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 
2013 2012 2011 New specific provisions 
1,638 1,860 1,495 Reversals of previously established allowances 
(267) 
(252) (128) Recoveries of loans previously written off 
(772) (846) (241) Specific provision for credit losses 
599 762 1,126 Increase (decrease) in collective allowance 
(10) 3 86 
Provision for credit losses (PCL) 
589 765 1,212 Adjusted provision for credit losses 
(1) 359 471 1,108 PCL as a % of average net loans and 
acceptances (annualized) (2) 0.22 0.31 0.56 PCL as a % of average net loans and 
acceptances excluding purchased portfolios 
(annualized) (2) (3) 
0.32 0.42 0.55 Specific PCL as a % of average net loans and 
acceptances (annualized) (2) 0.23 0.31 0.52 Adjusted specific PCL as a % of average net 
loans and acceptances (annualized) 
(1) (2) 
0.14 0.21 0.54 (1) Adjusted provision for credit losses excludes provisions related to the purchased? ?
performing loan portfolio and changes in the collective allowance.? ?
(2) Certain ratios for 2012 were restated in the first quarter of 2013 to reflect the reclassified 

balance sheet presentation. 
(3) Ratio is presented excluding purchased loan portfolios, to provide for better historical 

comparisons. This table contains adjusted results and measures, which are non-GAAP. Please refer to the 

Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
Provision for Credit Losses by Operating Group 
(1) For the year ended October 31 

(Canadian $ in millions) 
2013 2012 2011 
Canadian P&C 
574 615 664 
U.S. P&C 223 274 359 
Personal and Commercial Banking 
797 889 1,023 
Wealth Management 
3 22 10 
BMO Capital Markets 
(36) 6 32 
Corporate Services, including T&O 
Impaired real estate loan portfolio 
(43) 19 28 
Interest on impaired loans 
48 44 15 
Purchased credit impaired loan portfolio 
(410) (509) – 
Adjusted provision for credit losses 
359 471 1,108 
Specific provisions on purchased performing loans 
(2) 240 291 18 
Change in collective allowance 
(10) 3 86 
Provision for credit losses 
589 765 1,212 
(1) Effective the first quarter of 2013, provisions in the operating groups are reported on an 

actual loss basis and interest on impaired loans is allocated to the operating groups. 

Results for prior periods have been restated accordingly. 
(2) Provisions for the purchased performing loan portfolio are reported in Corporate Services. 
This table contains adjusted results and measures, which are non-GAAP. Please refer to the 

Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
42 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Non-Interest Expense 
Non-interest expense increased $59 million or 1% to $10,297 million 
in 2013. 
Amounts in the rest of this Non-Interest Expense section are stated 
on an adjusted basis, unless otherwise noted. 
Adjusted non-interest expense excludes costs of the M&I 
integration and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets in 

2013, 2012 and 2011; restructuring costs in 2013 and 2012 to align our 

cost structure with the current and future business environment; and 

M&I acquisition-related costs in 2011. The factors contributing to the 

cost increases are set out in the adjacent Contribution to Growth in 

Adjusted Non-Interest Expense and Non-Interest Expense table. 
Adjusted non-interest expense increased $313 million or 3% to 
$9,826 million. Excluding the impact of the stronger U.S. dollar, adjusted 

non-interest expense increased by only 2%. 
The dollar and percentage changes in expense by category are 
outlined in the adjacent Adjusted Non-Interest Expense and Non-Interest 

Expense table. Table 8 on page 109 provides more detail on expenses 

and expense growth. 
Performance-based compensation increased 2%, driven by 
improved revenue in Wealth Management and BMO Capital Markets. 

Other employee compensation, which includes salaries, benefits and 

severance, increased 8% from 2012, due to continued investment in the 

business, higher benefit costs, including pension, and higher severance 

and regulatory-related costs. The stronger U.S. dollar also contributed to 

the increase. 
Premises and equipment costs increased $27 million or 2%, with 
$16 million related to technology development initiatives. 
Other expenses fell by $63 million or 3%, reflecting declines in 
most other expense categories, with the exception of an increase in 

travel and business development costs. 
BMO’s reported efficiency ratio improved by 20 basis points to 63.3% 
in 2013. The adjusted efficiency ratio remained unchanged at 63.1%. 
Canadian P&C is BMO’s largest operating segment, and its reported 
efficiency ratio of 51.3% was stable as modest revenue growth was 

offset by continued investment in the business, net of savings from 

productivity initiatives. 
The efficiency ratio in Wealth Management improved by 870 basis 
points to 66.7%, reflecting revenue growth across most businesses and 

a continued focus on productivity. 
BMO Capital Markets reported efficiency ratio of 59.8% was essen<
tially unchanged as revenue growth was offset by higher expenses 

resulting from stronger revenue performance and increased technology 

and support costs related to a changing business and regulatory 

environment. The efficiency ratio in U.S. P&C of 60.1% was relatively unchanged 
from the prior year as lower revenue was largely offset by decreased 

expenses. The reported operating leverage was 0.2% in 2013 and adjusted 
operating leverage was 0.1%. One of our medium-term financial 

objectives is to generate average annual adjusted operating leverage of 

2% or more, increasing the rate of adjusted revenue growth by an 

average of at least two percentage points more than the rate of 

adjusted non-interest expense growth. We aim to improve efficiency 

and generate operating leverage by driving revenue growth through a 

strong customer focus and by continuing our focus on productivity while 

making selective investments. 
Examples of initiatives to enhance productivity are outlined in the 
2013 Review of Operating Groups Performance, which starts on page 44. 
The efficiency ratio 
(or expense-to-revenue ratio
)isakey 
measure of productivity. It is calculated as non-interest expense 

divided by total revenues (on a taxable equivalent basis in the 

operating groups), expressed as a percentage. The 
adjusted effi<
ciency ratio 
is another key measure of productivity and is calcu<
lated in the same manner, utilizing adjusted revenue and expense. 
Contribution to Growth in Adjusted Non-Interest Expense 
and Non-Interest Expense 
(%) For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 
Significant businesses acquired 
0.3 10.3 5.8 
Canadian/U.S. dollar translation effect, 
excluding acquisitions 
0.7 0.4 (1.5) 
Other 2.3 1.8 7.2 
Total adjusted non-interest expense growth 
3.3 12.5 11.5 Impact of adjusting items 
(2.7) 4.6 3.2 Total non-interest expense growth 
0.6 17.1 14.7 Adjusted Non-Interest Expense and Non-Interest Expense 
($ millions, except as noted) 
Change from 2012 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011* 
(%) Performance-based compensation 
1,682 1,641 1,560 2 Other employee compensation 
4,011 3,725 3,253 8 Total employee compensation 
5,693 5,366 4,813 6 Premises and equipment 
1,787 1,760 1,557 2 Other 2,119 2,182 1,922 (3) 
Amortization of intangible assets 
227 205 161 11 Total adjusted non-interest expense 
9,826 9,513 8,453 3 Adjusting items 
471 725 288 (35) Total non-interest expense 
10,297 10,238 8,741 1 Adjusted non-interest expense 
growth (%) 3.3 12.5 11.5 na Non-interest expense growth 
(%) 0.6 17.1 14.7 na * Growth rates for 2011 reflect growth based on CGAAP in 2010 and IFRS in 2011. 
na – not applicable 
Efficiency Ratio by Group 
(teb) (%) 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 
Efficiency Ratio 
Canadian P&C 
51.3 51.2 50.6 
U.S. P&C 
62.6 62.9 61.6 
Wealth Management 
67.7 76.4 75.5 
BMO Capital Markets 
59.8 59.7 57.2 
Total BMO 
63.3 63.5 62.7 
Adjusted Efficiency Ratio 

Canadian P&C 
51.1 51.1 50.5 
U.S. P&C 
60.1 59.8 59.1 
Wealth Management 
66.7 75.4 75.0 
BMO Capital Markets 
59.7 59.7 57.2 
Total BMO 
63.1 63.1 61.5 
Caution This Non-Interest Expense section contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Caution 

Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
MD&A Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
43      MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Provision for Income Taxes 
The provision for income taxes reflected in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income is based upon transactions recorded in income, regardless of 

when such transactions are subject to taxation by tax authorities, with 

the exception of the repatriation of retained earnings from foreign 

subsidiaries, as outlined in Note 24 on page 171 of the finan<

cial statements. 
Management assesses BMO’s consolidated results and associated 
provisions for income taxes on a GAAP basis. We assess the perform<

ance of the operating groups and associated income taxes on a taxable 

equivalent basis and report accordingly. 
The provision for income taxes was $1,129 million in 2013, com<
pared with $938 million in 2012. The reported effective tax rate in 2013 

was 21.0%, compared with 18.3% in 2012. The adjusted provision for 

income taxes
(1) in 2013 was $1,111 million, compared with $991 million 
in 2012. The adjusted effective tax rate in 2013 was 20.6%, compared 

with 19.5% in 2012. The higher adjusted effective tax rate was mainly 

attributable to lower recoveries of prior periods’ income taxes. 
BMO partially hedges the foreign exchange risk arising from 
its investments in U.S. operations by funding the investments in U.S. 

dollars. Under this program, the gain or loss on hedging and the unreal<
ized gain or loss on translation of investments in U.S. operations are 

charged or credited to shareholders’ equity. For income tax purposes, 

the gain or loss on the hedging activities results in an income tax charge 

or credit in the current period, which is charged or credited to share<

holders’ equity, while the associated unrealized gain or loss on the 

investments in U.S. operations does not incur income taxes until the 

investments are liquidated. The income tax charge/benefit arising from 

a hedging gain/loss is a function of the fluctuations in exchange rates 

from period to period. Hedging of the investments in U.S. operations has 

given rise to an income tax recovery in shareholders’ equity of $146 

million for the year, compared with $13 million in 2012. Refer to the 

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 128 of the finan<

cial statements for further details. 
Table 8 on page 109 details the $1,716 million of total net govern<
ment levies and income tax expense incurred by BMO in 2013. The 

increase from $1,521 million in 2012 was primarily due to higher 

income tax expense, as well as higher harmonized sales tax, GST and 

other sales taxes. 
(1) The adjusted rate is computed using adjusted net income rather than net income in the 

determination of income subject to tax. 
Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
MD&A 2013 Review of Operating Groups Performance; ;
This section includes an analysis of the financial results of our operating? ?

groups and descriptions of their businesses, strategies, strengths, chal<?

lenges, key value drivers, achievements and outlooks.? ?
Personal and Commercial Banking (P&C) 
(pages 46 to 52)? ?
Net income was $2,450 million in 2013, an increase of $95 million or? ?
4% from 2012. Adjusted net income was $2,510 million, an increase of? ?

$81 million or 3%. Personal and Commercial Banking is comprised of? ?

two operating segments: Canadian Personal and Commercial Banking? ?

(Canadian P&C) and U.S. Personal and Commercial Banking (U.S. P&C).? ?
Wealth Management 
(pages 53 to 55)? ?
Net income was $834 million in 2013, an increase of $310 million or? ?
59% from 2012. Adjusted net income was $861 million, an increase of? ?

$316 million or 58%.? ?
BMO Capital Markets (BMO CM) 
(pages 56 to 58)? ?
Net income was $1,094 million in 2013, an increase of $73 million or? ?
7% from 2012. Adjusted net income was $1,096 million, an increase of? ?

$74 million or 7%.? ?
Corporate Services, including Technology and Operations 
(page 59)? ?
Net loss was $130 million in 2013, compared with net income of? ?
$289 million in 2012. Adjusted net loss was $191 million compared with? ?

net income of $96 million in 2012.? ?
Allocation of Results 
The basis for the allocation of results geographically and among 
*Percentages determined excluding results in Corporate Services. 
Earnings by country were consistent with the previous year. Adjusted Net Income 
by Country 
Adjusted Net Income 
by Operating Segment
* 2012 2012 2013 U.S. 25% 
Canada 71% Other 
countries 

4% U.S. 27% 
Canada 69% Other 
countries 

4% Results reflect the significant adjusted net income growth in 
Wealth Management in 2013. U.S. P&C 16% Wealth Management 
14% BMO CM 25% Canadian P&C 45% 2013 U.S. P&C 14% Wealth Management 
19% BMO CM 25% Canadian P&C 42% operating groups is outlined in Note 26 on page 174 of the financial 
statements. Certain prior year data has been restated, as explained on 

the following page, which also provides further information on the 

allocation of results. 
44 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Contributions to Revenue, Expenses, Net Income and 
Average Assets by Operating Group and by Location 
($ millions, except as noted) 
Personal and Commercial 
Wealth BMO Corporate Services, including 
Total Banking Management Capital Markets Technology and Operations 
Consolidated For the year ended 
October 31 
2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Operating Groups Relative Contribution to BMO’s Performance 
(%) Revenue 57.0 57.3 58.7 21.2 18.0 18.6 21.1 20.3 23.8 0.7 4.4 (1.1) 100 100 100 Expenses 49.4 49.7 49.9 22.7 21.7 22.4 19.9 19.1 21.7 8.0 9.5 6.0 100 100 100 Net income 
57.7 56.2 63.4 19.6 12.5 15.4 25.8 24.4 31.3 (3.1) 6.9 (10.1) 
100 100 100 Adjusted net income 
58.7 59.4 61.6 20.1 13.3 15.0 25.6 25.0 29.8 (4.4) 2.3 (6.4) 100 100 100 Average assets 
43.6 41.1 41.3 4.0 3.7 3.7 44.6 46.2 46.0 7.8 9.0 9.0 100 100 100 Total Revenue 

Canada 6,254 6,129 6,065 2,239 1,981 2,010 2,168 2,043 2,088 (181) 15 (80) 10,480 10,168 10,083 United States 
3,023 3,107 2,124 908 702 425 1,106 1,031 1,020 278 616 (4) 5,315 5,456 3,565 Other countries 
1 – – 307 222 157 154 202 207 
6 82 (69) 468 506 295 9,278 9,236 8,189 3,454 2,905 2,592 3,428 3,276 3,315 103 713 (153) 
16,263 16,130 13,943 Total Expenses 

Canada 3,177 3,098 3,046 1,651 1,609 1,581 1,027 977 964 
354 409 242 6,209 6,093 5,833 United States 
1,913 1,986 1,319 588 554 344 869 830 786 431 539 251 3,801 3,909 2,700 Other countries 
– – – 101 56 31 153 149 146 
33 31 31 287 236 208 
5,090 5,084 4,365 2,340 2,219 1,956 2,049 1,956 1,896 818 979 524 10,297 10,238 8,741 Net Income 

Canada 1,853 1,794 1,709 429 271 307 
872 830 822 (229) (32) (67) 2,925 2,863 2,771 United States 
596 561 265 207 85 46 217 146 101 116 254 (145) 1,136 1,046 267 Other countries 
1 – – 198 168 127 5 45 52 (17) 67 (103) 187 280 76 2,450 2,355 1,974 834 524 480 1,094 1,021 975 (130) 289 (315) 4,248 4,189 3,114 Adjusted Net Income 

Canada 1,858 1,797 1,713 430 273 311 872 830 823 (144) (73) (75) 3,016 2,827 2,772 United States 
651 632 305 229 101 51 219 147 101 (27) 214 (99) 
1,072 1,094 358 Other countries 
1 – – 202 171 128 5 45 52 (20) (45) (35) 188 171 145 
2,510 2,429 2,018 861 545 490 1,096 1,022 976 (191) 96 (209) 4,276 4,092 3,275 Average Assets 

Canada 177,142 161,335 153,052 
17,438 15,974 14,191 
133,120 139,333 118,954 
18,037 16,240 16,548 
345,737 332,882 302,745 
United States 
64,866 62,218 40,896 3,527 3,678 2,773 96,101 94,691 80,287 25,199 30,214 21,674 
189,693 190,801 145,630 
Other countries 
18 – – 1,178 702 519 18,357 17,538 17,065 699 2,341 3,975 20,252 20,581 21,559 242,026 223,553 193,948 
22,143 20,354 17,483 
247,578 251,562 216,306 
43,935 48,795 42,197 
555,682 544,264 469,934 
MD&A How BMO Reports Operating Group Results 
Periodically, certain business lines or units within business lines are 
transferred between operating groups to more closely align BMO’s 

organizational structure with its strategic priorities. Results for prior 

periods are restated to conform to the current presentation. 
In the first quarter of 2013, we changed the way in which we 
evaluate our operating segments to reflect the provisions for credit 

losses on an actual credit loss basis. The change in allocation method<

ology enhances the assessment of performance against our peer group. 

Previously, we had charged the operating groups with credit losses 

based on an expected loss provisioning methodology whereby Corpo<

rate Services was charged (or credited) with differences between the 

periodic provisions for credit losses charged to the operating group 

segments under our expected loss provisioning methodology and the 

periodic provisions required under GAAP. As part of this change, the 

interest income resulting from the accretion of the net present value of 

impaired loans is also included in operating group net interest income. 

Prior period results have been restated accordingly. Provisions for the 

purchased performing and purchased credit impaired loan portfolios 

continue to be evaluated and reported in Corporate Services. 
During 2013, we refined our methodology for the allocation of 
certain revenues in Corporate Services by geographic region. As a 

consequence, we have reallocated certain revenues reported in prior 

periods from Canada to the United States in Corporate Services. 
During 2012, Wealth Management and Canadian P&C entered into 
an agreement that changes the way they report the financial results 

related to retail mutual fund sales. Prior periods have been restated. 
During 2011, approximately US$1.0 billion of impaired real estate 
secured assets, comprised primarily of commercial real estate loans, 

were transferred to Corporate Services from U.S. P&C to allow our busi<

nesses to focus on ongoing customer relationships and leverage our risk 

management expertise in our special assets management unit. Prior 

period loan balances, revenues and expenses were restated to reflect 

the transfer. Approximately US$1.5 billion of similar assets acquired in 

the M&I transaction were also included in Corporate Services, and had a 

carrying value of US$329 million at the end of 2013. 
Corporate Services results reflect certain items in respect of the 
acquired loan portfolio, including the recognition of a portion of the 

related credit mark that is reflected in net interest income over the term 

of the purchased loans and provisions for credit losses on the acquired 

loan portfolio. Integration and restructuring costs, run-off structured 

credit activities and changes in the collective allowance are also 

included in Corporate Services. 
BMO analyzes revenue at the consolidated level based on GAAP 
revenues reflected in the consolidated financial statements rather than 

on a taxable equivalent basis (teb), which is consistent with our Cana<

dian peer group. Like many banks, we continue to analyze revenue on a 

teb basis at the operating group level. This basis includes an adjustment 

that increases GAAP revenues and the GAAP provision for income taxes 

by an amount that would raise revenues on certain tax-exempt items to 

a level equivalent to amounts that would incur tax at the statutory rate. 

The offset to the group teb adjustments is reflected in Corporate Serv<

ices revenues and income tax provisions. 
Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
45 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Personal and Commercial Banking 
(Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 
Canadian P&C 
U.S. P&C 
Total P&C 
Change Change Change from from from 2012 2012 2012 As at or for the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011* 
(%) 2013 2012 2011* 
(%) 2013 2012 2011* 
(%) Net interest income (teb) 
4,429 4,365 4,381 1 2,378 
2,456 1,653 (3) 6,807 6,821 6,034 – Non-interest revenue 
1,912 1,847 1,807 4 559 568 348 (1) 2,471 2,415 2,155 2 Total revenue (teb) 
6,341 6,212 6,188 2 2,937 3,024 2,001 (3) 9,278 9,236 8,189 – Provision for credit losses 
574 615 664 (7) 223 274 359 (19) 797 889 1,023 (10) Non-interest expense 
3,250 3,183 3,133 2 1,840 
1,901 1,232 (3) 5,090 5,084 4,365 – Income before income taxes 
2,517 2,414 2,391 4 874 849 410 3 3,391 3,263 2,801 4 Provision for income taxes (teb) 
663 639 676 4 278 269 151 3 941 908 827 4 Reported net income 
1,854 1,775 1,715 4 596 580 259 3 2,450 2,355 1,974 4 Adjusted net income 
1,864 1,785 1,724 4 646 644 294 – 2,510 
2,429 2,018 3 Net economic profit 
990 1,026 1,019 (4) Adjusted return on equity 
(%) 17.7 18.6 22.2 (0.9) Return on equity 
(%) 17.3 18.1 21.7 (0.8) Adjusted operating leverage (teb) 
(%) – (1.1) 0.4 nm (0.5) (1.6) 15.2 nm – (2.8) 2.3 nm Operating leverage (teb) 
(%) – (1.2) 0.3 nm 0.3 (3.2) 13.2 nm 0.4 (3.7) 1.7 nm Adjusted efficiency ratio (teb) 
(%) 51.1 51.1 50.5 – 60.1 59.8 59.1 0.3 53.9 53.9 52.6 – Efficiency ratio (teb) 
(%) 51.3 51.2 50.6 0.1 62.6 62.9 61.6 (0.3) 54.9 55.0 53.3 (0.1) Net interest margin on earning assets (teb) 
(%) 2.59 2.79 2.94 (0.20) 4.07 4.40 4.53 (0.33) 2.97 3.22 3.26 (0.25) Average common equity 
13,723 12,611 8,692 9 Average earning assets 
170,847 156,231 148,835 9 58,369 55,857 36,471 4 229,216 212,088 185,306 8 Average loans and acceptances 
175,079 159,484 151,331 10 52,421 50,711 32,892 3 227,500 210,195 184,223 8 Average deposits 
113,644 106,256 101,784 7 60,645 59,147 36,425 3 174,289 165,403 138,209 5 Assets under administration 
16,148 15,521 22,421 4 112,732 96,803 77,066 16 128,880 112,324 99,487 15 Full-time equivalent employees 
15,957 16,197 16,723 (1) 7,971 7,906 7,564 1 23,928 24,103 24,287 (1) * Leverage measures for 2011 reflect growth based on CGAAP in 2010 and IFRS in 2011. 
nm – not meaningful 
Net economic profit and adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
46 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 



Canadian Personal and Commercial Banking 
Canadian Personal and Commercial Banking serves more than seven million 
personal and commercial banking customers, who do business with us through 

an integrated national network of BMO Bank of Montreal branches, automated 

banking machines, telephone, mobile and online banking, along with the 

expertise of our mortgage specialists and financial planners. 
Frank Techar 
Chief Operating Officer 

BMO Financial Group 
Lines of Business 
Personal Banking 
provides financial solutions for everyday banking, 
financing, investing, credit cards and creditor insurance needs. We serve 

approximately one quarter of Canadian households. 
Strengths and Value Drivers 
‰Strong competitive position in commercial banking, reflected in our 
number two ranking in market share for business loans of $5 million 

and less. ‰Highly experienced team of specialists in mid-market commercial 

banking, offering integrated products and services that are driving 

high customer loyalty scores. 
‰Strong and consistently applied credit risk management practices that 

provide customers with reliable access to appropriate financing sol<

utions in all economic conditions. 
‰Large, loyal customer base supported by strong and differentiated 

brand. ‰Largest MasterCard
® issuer in Canada as measured by transaction 
volumes, and one of the top commercial card issuers in North 

America. Strategy and Key Priorities 
We aim to succeed in the Canadian market by delivering a customer 

experience differentiated through guidance across all channels and by 

leveraging our highly productive distribution network. 
Enhance the customer experience to create a differentiated 
position in the Canadian market 
2013 Achievements 
‰Continued to maintain strong customer loyalty scores as measured by 
Net Promoter Score. Implemented an additional measure of in-branch 

customer experience that provides detailed and timely feedback to 

improve the customer relationship. 
‰For the second consecutive year, BMO received a prestigious Celent 

Model Bank Award. BMO received the 2013 Model Bank Impact Award 

for BMO Bank by Appointment, and was the first Canadian bank to 

offer real-time appointment booking for both online and mobile 

customers. Nearly 40,000 appointments were booked in 2013 using 

this capability. Current online sales levels are equivalent to sales at 

90 branches. 
‰Maintained strong employee engagement and commitment to the 

customer experience. In the annual employee survey, employees 

indicated that they believe customer experience is a top priority 

for them. 
Commercial Banking 
provides our small business, medium-sized 
enterprise and mid-market banking customers with a broad suite of 
integrated commercial and capital markets products, as well as financial 

advisory services. 
2014 Focus 
‰Continue to build capabilities to provide personalized advice to our 
customers through the channel of their choice, including enhance<

ments to online and mobile banking. 
Strengthen relationships with our Personal Banking customers 
through innovative product offerings and exceptional service 
2013 Achievements 
‰Our investment campaign was a great success. Mutual funds growth 
of 15% was our highest since 2010. 
‰Developed segment-specific campaigns and offers targeted at new 

Canadians and the military community. 
‰The continued success of our Five-Year Fixed 25-year amortization 

mortgage product is building a foundation for new and expanded 

long-term customer relationships. 
‰Our leads management engine continues to provide our customers 

with relevant and timely offers and services, increasing share of 

wallet and positively impacting revenue growth. 
2014 Focus 
‰Target personal banking growth in under-penetrated customer 

segments and products to grow share of wallet and gain new 

customers. Establish the most productive distribution network in the country 
2013 Achievements 
‰Implemented system, organization and process changes that allow 

front-line employees to spend more time acquiring new customers 

and strengthening existing relationships. Enhancements include a 

more efficient personal loan origination system, lean mortgage appli<

cation and approval processes and simplified commercial lending 

processes. ‰Opened or upgraded 86 branches and added more than 300 ABMs. 
‰Held efficiency ratio at a stable level in a low revenue growth 

environment by tightly managing expenses. 
2014 Focus 
‰Continue the redesign of our core processes and implement new 

technologies to improve productivity and enhance the customer 

experience. MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
47    
MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Reported Net Income>>Average Loans and Acceptances Average Deposits ($ millions) ($ billions) ($ billions)1,8541,7751,715 129.6 72.4Personal Personal 69.6118.2 67.0111.9Commercial Commercial 41.236.734.8 45.541.339.4 2011 2012 2013 
2011 2012 2013˚ 2011 2012 2013 Drive growth in commercial lending and deposits to improve 
market share 
2013 Achievements 
‰We enhanced our performance management system and continued to 
focus our commercial workforce on having more complete con<

versations with our customers. This produced strong results with 

commercial deposit growth of 12%, our highest since 2007. Commer<

cial lending momentum continued with strong balance growth of 

11%, our highest since 2008. We maintained our second place posi<

tion in commercial lending market share. 
‰BMO was awarded a seven-year contract to provide a corporate cards 

program for the Government of Canada. 
‰Tied for first place among the big banks in the Canadian Federation of 

Independent Business report 
Battle of the Banks, based on a 2012 
survey of almost 13,000 small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) 

owners that assessed how well banks are serving their SME 

customers. 2014 Focus 
‰Accelerate financial performance by improving our sales force 

productivity. Financial Review 
Canadian P&C reported net income of $1,854 million, up $79 million or 

4% from a year ago. Revenue increased $129 million or 2% to $6,341 

million. Net interest margin was 2.59%, down 20 basis points from the 

prior year, primarily due to changes in mix, including growth in loan 

balances that was greater than growth in deposits and lower deposit 

spreads in the low-rate environment. We achieved strong loan and 

deposit growth throughout the year and reduced net interest margin 

compression in the last two quarters, reflected in a significant improve<

ment in our financial performance, as net income grew by more than 

7% and revenue grew by more than 4% in the second half of the year. 
In our personal banking business, revenue increased $74 million or 
2%. The increase was due to the effects of growth in balances and fees 

across most products, partially offset by lower net interest margin. 
In our commercial banking business, revenue increased $55 million 
or 2%, as the effects of growth in balances and fees across most prod<

ucts were partially offset by lower net interest margin. 
Canadian P&C 
(Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 
Change from 2012 
As at or for the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 
(%) Net interest income (teb) 
4,429 4,365 4,381 
1;;Non-interest revenue 1,912 1,847 1,807 
4;;Total revenue (teb) 
6,341 6,212 6,188 
2;;Provision for credit losses 
574 615 664 
(7); ;
Non-interest expense 3,250 3,183 3,133 
2;;Income before income taxes 
2,517 2,414 2,391 
4;;Provision for income taxes (teb) 
663 639 676 
4;;Reported net income 
1,854 1,775 1,715 
4;;Adjusted net income 
1,864 1,785 1,724 
4;;Key Performance Metrics and Drivers 
Net income growth 
(%) 4 43 
nm Revenue growth 
(%) 2 –6 
nm Operating leverage (teb) 
(%) – (1.2) 0.3 
nm Efficiency ratio (teb) 
(%) 51.3 51.2 50.6 
0.1 Net interest margin on earning 
assets (teb) 
(%) 2.59 2.79 2.94 
(0.20) Average loans and acceptances 
175,079 159,484 151,331 
10 Average deposits 
113,644 106,256 101,784 
7 Full-time equivalent employees 
15,957 16,197 16,723 
(1) nm – not meaningful 
Provisions for credit losses declined $41 million or 7% to 
$574 million, driven by lower provisions in the consumer portfolio. We 
continue to grow our business while remaining attentive to the credit 

quality of our portfolio. 
Non-interest expense was $3,250 million, up $67 million or 2%, 
primarily due to continued investment in the business, including our 

distribution network, net of strong expense management. Our efficiency 

ratio was 51.3%, in line with the prior year. Improving the customer 

experience and productivity is a focus for Canadian P&C in 2014. We 

expect productivity to improve as balance growth continues, margin 

compression subsides and the benefits from productivity initiatives are 

realized, including mortgage and commercial lending process 

improvements. 48 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Business Environment, Outlook 
and Challenges 
Canada’s economy is expected to improve in 2014, reflecting moderate 
increases in employment and personal income, as well as in response to 

a strengthening U.S. economy. 
In the Canadian personal banking sector, retail operating deposits 
are projected to grow in 2014 by approximately 5%, similar to growth in 

2013 and in line with the expected increase in personal income. Credit 

card loan balances grew nominally in 2013 and growth is projected to 

strengthen gradually next year. Overall residential mortgage growth 

moderated in 2013, as tighter mortgage underwriting guidelines 

constrained the demand for housing. This was reflected in a moderate 

decline in resales, a sharp drop in housing starts and some slowing in 

house price increases. Anticipated moderate increases in employment 

in fiscal 2014 should keep the demand for housing and house prices 

fairly steady. 
In the commercial banking sector, growth in commercial operating 
deposits (CODs) was strong in 2013. Businesses are continuing to hold 

back on strategic investments due to global economic uncertainty. 
Industry COD growth is projected to decelerate in 2014, as improving 

economic conditions reduce the need for precautionary savings and 

encourage business investment. 
We expect growth in consumer lending to slow given relatively 
high levels of household debt, which we will address through our focus 

on targeting growth in under-penetrated customer segments and prod<

ucts, as well as by continuing to improve our sales force productivity. 

While the industry faces increasingly complex regulatory, information 

security and fraud prevention requirements, our strong governance 

framework continues to position us well to monitor any such changes 

and respond accordingly. With competition for skilled resources 

becoming more intense, we continue to monitor employee engagement 

to ensure that BMO remains at or above the financial industry average. 
The Canadian economic environment in 2013 and outlook for 2014 
are discussed in more detail in the Economic Developments and Outlook 

section on page 32. 
Caution This Canadian P&C Banking section contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Caution 

Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section 
on page 34. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
49   
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
U.S. Personal and Commercial Banking ;
MD&A The promise we make to our more than two million customers is to bring clarity 
to their financial decisions. Our retail and small and mid-sized business banking 

customers are served through our 621 branches, call centre, online and mobile 

banking platforms and more than 1,300 ABMs across eight states. We deliver 

financial expertise to our commercial banking customers, offering in-depth, 

specific industry knowledge and strategic capital markets solutions. 
Mark Furlong 
Group Head 

U.S. Personal and Commercial Banking? 
and CEO, BMO Harris Bank N.A. Chicago? 
Lines of Business 
Personal Banking 
offers a broad range of products and services to 
individuals, as well as small and mid-sized business customers, including 

deposits, mortgages, consumer credit, business lending, credit cards and 

other banking services. 
Strengths and Value Drivers 
‰ Rich heritage of more than 160 years in the U.S. Midwest, with a deep 
commitment to the community and to helping our customers succeed. 
‰ Strong, experienced leadership team that knows how to compete and 

excel in our markets. 
‰ Enviable platform for profitable growth provided by our attractive 

branch footprint and top-tier deposit market share in key U.S. 

Midwest markets. 
‰ Large-scale, relationship-based national commercial banking business 

based in the U.S. Midwest, with in-depth industry knowledge in 

select sectors. 
Strategy and Key Priorities 
We aim to grow our business and be a leader in our markets by 

delivering a customer experience differentiated through guidance on a 

wide range of financial topics, and by leveraging our brand reputation, 

local presence and high-performance teams. 
Deliver a great customer experience to grow a loyal and profitable 
customer base 
2013 Achievements 
‰Continued to build on our strong commercial lending market share, 
ranking second among our peer U.S. commercial banks in our core 

Midwest market and first in Wisconsin, with an increase in core 

commercial and industrial loans of $3.5 billion or 19% from a 

year ago. 
‰Implemented a new customer relationship management system 

that enables our employees to deliver a great experience to our 

customers by providing them with all customer information in 

one channel. 
‰Received the Community Service Leadership Award from The Financial 

Services Roundtable in recognition of our dedication and service to 

the communities in which we operate. 
‰Ranked number 1 among 30 major U.S. banks in long-term trust in 

the annual American Banker/Reputation Institute Survey of Bank 

Reputations, demonstrating the high level of confidence customers 

have in us. 
Commercial Banking 
provides larger businesses with a broad range? ?
of banking products and services, including lending, deposits, treasury? ?
management and risk management.? ?
2014 Focus 
‰Maintain strong customer loyalty while growing our customer base in 
high-opportunity segments, including mass affluent, mid-market and 

earlier life stage consumers. 
Continue to improve our product and channel capabilities to better 
meet our customers’ needs 
2013 Achievements 
‰Enhanced our online banking platform with upgrades that improve our 
loan processing capabilities and cross-border functionalities. In addi<

tion, customers can now view and manage all their bank, credit card 

and investment accounts in one place using BMO Harris Total Look
SM. ‰Launched BMO Harris Bank iPad
®, iPhone® and AndroidTM mobile apps 
to increase convenience for our customers. To date, customer 

response has been strong, with nearly 40% of customers accessing 

our mobile banking platform, and the iPad
® application has a four-star 
user rating. 
‰Continued to work in partnership with Wealth Management to imple<

ment Premier Services, which offers a unique planning-focused client 

experience, with 98 teams of bankers and wealth management 

advisors in place at year end. This realignment drives increases in 

share of wallet, and ensures our clients are served through the most 

cost-effective channel. 
2014 Focus 
‰Continue to enhance our technology and processes with additional 

digital channels and improved mortgage and business lending and 

treasury processes. 
Improve financial performance by growing revenue and effectively 
managing costs 
2013 Achievements 
‰Revenue from strong core commercial and industrial loan growth 
and increased deposit balances improved, offsetting in part the 

negative impact of the low interest rate environment which lowered 

overall revenue. 
‰Expenses and adjusted expenses declined by 5% and 4%, respectively 

(in U.S. dollars), primarily due to synergy-related savings and cost 

reductions resulting from our productivity initiatives, partially offset by 

the effects of selective investments in the business and higher 

regulatory-related costs. 
50 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Adjusted Net Income>>Average Current Loans and Acceptances Average Deposits 
(US$ millions) (US$ billions) (US$ billions)641 633 Personal 26.0 26.8 Personal24.624.5 Commercial Commercial 41.3 39.619.2 14.1296 27.2 19.717.7 9.7 2011 2012 2013 
2011 2012 2013˚˚2011 2012 2013 ‰Maintained our adjusted efficiency ratio of 60.1% at a level 
relatively unchanged from the previous year. Our adjusted operating 

leverage improved through effective expense management. 
2014 Focus 
‰Increase loan and deposit balances while focusing on cost management. 
Continue to deploy our unique commercial operating model by 
delivering local access and industry expertise to our clients across a 

broad geographic footprint 
2013 Achievements 
‰Focus on new client acquisition resulted in a 10% increase in the 
number of our client relationships. 
‰Strong core commercial and industrial loan growth, with a 

year-over-year increase of 19% and eight consecutive quarters of 

positive growth. 
‰Expanded into new specialty areas and geographic regions through 

targeted talent acquisition. Within the last year, we opened new 

commercial banking offices in Atlanta and Omaha and acquired a 

team of experienced franchise finance lenders, with additional hires in 

the dealership finance and equipment finance specialties in Houston, 

Atlanta, Seattle and Washington, D.C. 
‰Continued to leverage our robust thought leadership website, The 

Resource Center, which provides current and prospective clients with 

valuable industry insights from BMO experts, as well as third-party 

content via our exclusive partnerships. 
2014 Focus 
‰Keep building on the strength of our commercial banking business 

with a focus on new client acquisition, increasing market share and 

expanding our corporate payments penetration. 
Financial Review 
Amounts in this section are expressed in U.S. dollars. U.S. P&C net 

income in 2013 was $584 million, an increase of $6 million or 1% from 

$578 million a year ago. Adjusted net income, which excludes the 

amortization of acquisition-related assets, was $633 million, down 

$8 million or 1%. 
Revenue of $2,871 million decreased $144 million or 5%, as the 
benefits of strong growth in core commercial and industrial loans and 

deposits and higher commercial lending fees were more than offset by 

the effects of lower net interest margin, reductions in certain portfolios 

and lower deposit and debit card fees. 
In our commercial banking business, revenue increased $48 million 
or 4%, reflecting growth in loan and deposit products and global 

treasury management services. 
In our personal banking business, revenue decreased by $154 mil<
lion or 9%, primarily as a result of the low interest rate environment, 

reductions in certain acquired loan portfolios and deposit balances, and 

lower deposit and debit card fees. During the year we continued to 
U.S. P&C (US$ in millions, except as noted) 
Change from 2012 
As at or for the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 
(%) Net interest income (teb) 
2,324 2,449 1,673 
(5); ;
Non-interest revenue 547 566 352 
(3); ;
Total revenue (teb) 
2,871 3,015 2,025 
(5) Provision for credit losses 
217 273 366 
(21) Non-interest expense 1,797 1,895 1,247 
(5) 
Income before income taxes 
857 847 412 
1;;Provision for income taxes (teb) 
273 269 152 
2;;Reported net income 
584 578 260 
1;;Adjusted net income 
633 641 296 
(1); ;
Key Performance Metrics and Drivers 
Adjusted net income growth 
(%) (1) +100 31 
nm Net income growth 
(%) 1 +100 25 
nm Revenue growth 
(%) (5) 49 49 
nm Adjusted operating leverage (teb) 
(%) (0.4) (1.5) 16.0 
nm Operating leverage (teb) 
(%) 0.4 (3.1) 13.9 
nm Adjusted efficiency ratio (teb) 
(%) 60.1 59.8 59.1 
0.3 Efficiency ratio (teb) 
(%) 62.6 62.9 61.6 
(0.3) Net interest margin on earning assets 
(teb) (%) 4.07 4.40 4.53 
(0.33) 
Average current loans and acceptances 
51,356 50,549 33,286 
2 Average deposits 
59,257 58,964 36,866 
– Full-time equivalent employees 
7,971 
7,906 7,564 
1 nm – not meaningful 
execute our lower-cost funding strategy, and we have reduced the 
number of higher-cost time deposits and money market accounts, in 

favour of growth in lower-cost chequing and savings accounts. 
Net interest margin decreased by 33 basis points, primarily due to 
lower loan spreads due to competitive pricing and deposit spread 

compression given the low-rate environment. 
Provisions for credit losses of $217 million declined by $56 million 
or 21% from a year ago, primarily reflecting better credit quality in the 

consumer loan portfolio. 
Non-interest expense of $1,797 million decreased $98 million or 
5%. Adjusted non-interest expense of $1,723 million was $78 million or 

4% lower, primarily as a result of synergy-related savings in the current 

year and cost reductions resulting from our productivity initiatives, 

partially offset by the effects of selective investments in the business 

and higher regulatory-related costs. 
Average current loans and acceptances increased $0.8 billion year-
over-year to $51.4 billion. The core commercial and industrial loan 

portfolio continues to experience good growth, increasing by $3.5 billion 

or 19% from a year ago to $22.4 billion. In addition, we have grown our 

indirect automobile loan portfolio by $0.9 billion from a year ago. These 

increases helped to offset expected decreases in certain commercial 

loan portfolios, as well as reductions in home equity and mortgage 

loans, due in part to the effects of our continued practice of selling most 

mortgage originations in the secondary market and our active loan 

portfolio management. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
51 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Average deposits of $59.3 billion increased slightly from the prior 
year, as growth in our commercial business and in our personal 
chequing and savings accounts more than offset a planned reduction in 

higher-cost personal money market and time deposit accounts. 
Business Environment, Outlook 
and Challenges 
U.S. P&C has a significant footprint in eight states, primarily concentrated 
in six contiguous states (Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Minnesota, Missouri 
and Kansas). The U.S. Midwest economy grew in line with the national average 
in 2013, at a modest pace of approximately 1.6%, as growth was sup<

ported by the continued expansion in the automobile sector and a 

recovery in housing activity. However, growth was restrained by 

restrictive fiscal policies, modest consumer spending and a decline in 

global demand. Modest loan and deposit growth in U.S. P&C was con<

sistent with the growth in the economy. There was a decline in 

consumer loans consistent with our peers and the overall economy. 

Consumer loan growth is expected to trend higher in 2014 due to an 

improving economy. Residential mortgage growth will likely strengthen 

as the housing market recovery continues and is supported by 

affordability. Commercial loan growth should continue to improve in 
2014 as credit becomes more widely available due to an improving 

economy. Economic growth is expected at a rate of 2.7% in 2014 as fiscal 
restraint subsides. 
The marketplace remains dynamic and highly competitive, as banks 
compete aggressively on pricing for both loans and deposits to maintain 

and increase market share. We are concentrating on our customer-

focused growth strategy and commercial sector expertise to increase our 

loan and deposit balances in order to strengthen our financial perform<

ance in this challenging environment, while focusing on cost manage<

ment to improve efficiency. This will help alleviate the continued 

pressure on margins in the highly competitive low interest rate 

environment. Regulatory oversight is growing increasingly complex, 

with new regulations and compliance requirements. We will continue to 

leverage our strong governance framework to address existing and new 

requirements. The U.S. economic environment in 2013 and outlook for 2014 are 
discussed in more detail in the Economic Developments and Outlook 

section on page 32. 
Caution This U.S. P&C Banking section contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Caution 

Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section 
on page 34. 
52 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 

Wealth Management BMO’s group of wealth businesses serves a full range of client segments from 
mainstream to ultra-high net worth and institutional, with a broad offering of 

wealth management products and solutions including insurance products. 

Wealth Management operates in both Canada and the United States, as well as 

in select global markets including Asia and Europe. 
Gilles Ouellette 
Group Head 

Wealth Management 
Lines of Business 
BMO Nesbitt Burns, 
our full-service investing business in Canada, offers 
comprehensive and client-focused investment and wealth advisory 

services leveraging strong financial planning capabilities. 
BMO InvestorLine, 
our online investing business in Canada, offers self-
directed investors a range of tools to help plan, research and manage 
investing decisions their own way, in addition to adviceDirect, the first 

service in Canada that provides investing advice to online investors. 
BMO’s Private Banking 
businesses operate in Canada, the United States, 
Hong Kong and Singapore. We offer a comprehensive range of financial 
services and solutions to high net worth and ultra-high net worth clients 

and, under BMO Harris Financial Advisors, to mass affluent clients in the 

United States. 
Strengths and Value Drivers 
‰Planning and advice-based approach that integrates investments, 
insurance, specialized wealth management and core banking 

solutions. ‰Team of highly skilled wealth professionals committed to providing an 

exceptional client experience. 
‰Brand prestige, recognition and trust. 
‰Strong national presence in Canada, as well as strategic positioning in select 

high-growth U.S. and emerging wealth and asset management markets. 
‰Access to BMO’s broad client base and distribution network in Canada 

and the United States. 
Strategy and Key Priorities 
Our vision is to be the wealth management solutions provider that 

defines great client experience. Our strategy is to deliver on our 

clients’ wealth management needs now and in the future by enhancing 

the client experience, focusing on productivity and investing for 

future growth. 
Enhance our clients’ experience by delivering on their evolving 
wealth management needs 
2013 Achievements 
‰Developed new products designed to respond to clients’ emerging 
needs, including seven new ETFs that help investors build their 

portfolios more effectively. Our ETF line of business has more than 

$11 billion in assets under management and is the eighth largest 

fixed-income ETF provider in the world. 
‰Launched the BMO InvestorLine mobile application, which enables our 

clients to track their investments, follow market trends and place 

trades on the go with their smartphones. 
BMO Global Asset Management 
is a global investment 
organization that provides investment management, retirement, and 
trust and custody services to institutional, retail and high net worth 

investors around the world. 
BMO Insurance operates in Canada and internationally. In Canada, 
we manufacture life insurance, accident and sickness insurance, and 

annuity products that are marketed both to brokers and directly to 

individuals. Our creditor insurance division markets group creditor 

insurance and internationally, we provide reinsurance solutions. 
‰Expanded Net Promoter Score monitoring to all businesses for active 
measurement of client loyalty and identification of opportunities for 

continued improvement. 
‰Achieved high rankings in external loyalty benchmarking: BMO Nesbitt 

Burns’ Net Promoter Score was tied for first place in the latest Ipsos 

Reid Full Service Brokerage Report, BMO InvestorLine led its peers in 

client satisfaction in the Ipsos Reid Online Brokerage Report, and for 

the seventh year in a row, BMO Global Asset Management has gar<

nered more client service awards than any other 401(k) platform in 

the United States in PLANSPONSOR’s Defined Contribution Survey. 
2014 Focus 
‰Attract new clients and focus on delivering a tailored offer for key 

client segments. 
Streamline our products and simplify our processes to increase our 
productivity 2013 Achievements 
‰Increased client-facing time for our sales force through the redesign 
of workforce processes, including client onboarding and lending 

processes. ‰Consolidated sub-advisor asset management mandates to fully 

leverage internal capabilities and extend those capabilities globally. 
‰Reduced the number of funds that we offer in our Canadian mutual 

fund lineup to provide greater clarity and simplify our client offer. 
‰Redesigned the processes, by which our internal sales teams interact 

with our client-facing sales force, providing an efficient, unified view 

of wealth products and services to our retail partners. 
2014 Focus 
‰Continue to improve our productivity by improving the ratio of front-

line sales to support staff to increase revenue per employee. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
53 MD&A 
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Adjusted Net Income Assets under Management 2013 Revenue by ($ millions) and Administration ($ billions) Line of Business (%) MD&A Wealth Assets under administration Insurance˚861 Assets under management 292.8 490 545 150.2 2011 2012 2013 
Invest in our people, products, technology and footprint to drive 
future growth 
2013 Achievements 
‰Expanded our geographic footprint and wealth management platform 
through the acquisition of a wealth management business based in 

Hong Kong and Singapore. 
‰Increased our investment in our sales teams to expand coverage to 

new segments and geographic regions and provide the best experi<

ence for our clients. 
‰Leveraged our investments in technology to drive sales and improve 

efficiency. ‰Strengthened our brand with an enhanced online presence on 

bmo.com, which now offers potential clients a tool to help them 

identify the wealth management options that best suit their needs, as 

well as information about our full-service investing, private banking, 

financial planning and asset management services – all in one place – 

resulting in a fivefold increase in site visits. 
2014 Focus 
‰Invest in our sales force and enhance technology to drive revenue 

growth, with a particular focus on the United States. 
Financial Review 
Wealth Management net income w
as $834 million, up $310 million or 59% 
from a year ago. Adjusted net income, which excludes the amortization of 

acquisition-related intangible a
ssets, was $861 million, up $316 million or 
58% from a year ago. Adjusted net income in wealth businesses was 

$600 million, up $213 million or 55%. The significant increase in net 

income was driven by a security gain of $121 million and good growth of 

23% in our other wealth businesses. Adjusted net income in insurance was 

$261 million, up $103 million or 65%. 
Revenue of $3,454 million increased $549 million or 19%. Revenue 
in our wealth businesses increased 16%, reflecting strong performance 

driven by growth in client assets, the $191 million security gain and the 

benefit of recent acquisitions. Insurance revenue increased 49% as the 

prior year was impacted by unfavourable movements in long-term 

interest rates, and there was continued growth in both the underlying 

creditor and life insurance businesses. 
Provisions for credit losses of $3 million decreased $19 million or 
84%, primarily due to a loan recovery recorded in the current year, 

compared to a larger than usual loan write-down in the prior year 

related to a single commercial account. 
2011 2012 2013 164.3 183.6 322.2 369.3 BMO Nesbitt Burns 33%˜˜BMO Insurance 13%˜˜BMO Global Asset˜˜Management˜˜
23%˜˜BMO™s Private ˜ Banking Businesses ˜ 
25%˜˜BMO InvestorLine 6%˜˜Wealth Management 
(Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 
Change from 2012 
As at or for the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 
(%) Net interest income (teb) 
564 561 462 – Non-interest revenue 
2,890 2,344 2,130 23 Total revenue (teb) 
3,454 2,905 2,592 19 Provision for credit losses 
3 22 10 (84) Non-interest expense 
2,340 2,219 1,956 5 Income before income taxes 
1,111 664 626 67 Provision for income taxes (teb) 
277 140 146 96 Reported net income 
834 524 480 59 Adjusted net income 
861 545 490 58 Key Performance Metrics and Drivers 
Adjusted net income growth 
(%) 58 11 11 nm Net income growth 
(%) 59 9 10 
nm Revenue growth 
(%) 19 12 15 nm Return on equity 
(%) 28.6 24.1 32.9 4.5 Adjusted operating leverage 
(%) 13.7 (0.6) (1.6) nm Operating leverage 
(%) 13.4 (1.3) (1.9) nm Adjusted efficiency ratio 
(%) 66.7 75.4 75.0 (8.7) Efficiency ratio (teb) 
(%) 67.7 76.4 75.5 (8.7) Average common equity 
2,884 2,143 1,436 35 Average loans and acceptances 
11,909 10,833 9,299 10 Average deposits 
23,337 21,753 19,136 7 Assets under administration 
369,277 322,222 292,801 15 Assets under management 
183,625 164,293 150,176 12 Full-time equivalent employees 
6,117 6,108 6,518 – U.S. Business Selected Financial Data 
(US$ in millions) 
Total revenue (teb) 
883 699 430 26 Non-interest expense 
574 552 349 4 Reported net income 
200 84 47 +100 Adjusted net income 
221 99 53 +100 Average loans and acceptances 
2,510 2,650 2,260 (5) Average deposits 
4,947 4,960 3,199 – nm – not meaningful 
Non-interest expense was $2,340 million, up $121 million or 5%. 
Adjusted non-interest expense was $2,304 million, up $114 million or 
5%. The increase was due to growth in revenue-based costs and the 

costs of recent acquisitions, partly offset by the benefits of a continued 

focus on productivity. 
Assets under management and administration grew by $66.4 billion 
to $552.9 billion, driven by market appreciation, growth in new client 

assets and the stronger U.S. dollar. 
Net income in Wealth Management U.S. businesses was US$200 
million, up US$116 million from US$84 million a year ago. Adjusted net 

income in Wealth Management U.S. businesses was US$221 million, up 

US$122 million from US$99 million a year ago due to the security gain 

and growth across most of our lines of business. 
54 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Business Environment, Outlook 
and Challenges 
Economic growth in Canada remained modest in 2013, and equity 
markets posted moderate gains. And while U.S. economic growth 

slowed, its stock markets recorded double-digit gains. The strong gains 

were widespread across sectors, led by the financial, health care and 

consumer discretionary sectors. 
Investor confidence is returning, as evidenced by an increase in 
transaction volumes throughout the year and strong client asset growth, 

attributable to market gains and new client acquisition. Historically low 

interest rates limited our net interest income growth. 
In 2014, we anticipate that a sustained healthy level of activity in 
equity markets will continue to positively influence transaction volumes. 

Despite modest economic growth and the continued low interest rate 

environment expected in North America, we have clear strategic plans 

to grow all of our wealth businesses. 
Changing demographics, particularly in the retirement, mass 
affluent and high net worth sectors, will continue to drive the North 

American wealth management industry over the longer term. Tailoring 
our offering for key client segments, making sure we service our clients 

in the right channels and keeping pace with technology advancements 

are ways in which we can continue to meet our clients’ evolving needs. 
We have experienced significant growth, both organically and 
through strategic acquisitions, over the past few years, and we now 

have a robust wealth management platform in the United States and a 

growing presence in Asia, while we are also expanding into other coun<

tries. This activity supports BMO’s plans to offer truly global services to 

its clients across its international footprint. 
We are continuing to manage increasingly complex regulatory 
requirements, and at the same time we are proactively seeking top 

talent to complement our growing sales force. 
The Canadian and U.S. economic environment in fiscal 2013 and the 
outlook for fiscal 2014 are discussed in more detail in the Economic 

Developments and Outlook section on page 32. 
Caution This Wealth Management section contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Caution 

Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section 
on page 34. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
55         
  
 
        
 
    
 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
BMO Capital Markets 
BMO Capital Markets provides capital-raising, strategic advisory and risk 
management, and integrated sales, trading and research services to corporate, 

institutional, and government clients. We have nearly 2,300 employees and 

operate in 29 locations around the world, including 16 offices in North America. 
MD&A Tom Milroy 
Group Head 
BMO Capital Markets 
Lines of Business 
Investment and Corporate Banking 
offers clients debt and equity 
capital-raising services, as well as a full range of loan and debt prod<
ucts, balance sheet management solutions and treasury management 

services. We provide strategic advice and execution on mergers and 

acquisitions, restructurings and recapitalizations, in addition to valu<

ation and fairness opinions. In support of our clients’ international 

business activities, we offer trade finance and risk mitigation services, 

including banking and other operating services tailored to meet the 

needs of North American and international financial institutions. 
Strengths and Value Drivers 
‰A unified coverage approach and integrated distribution that creates 

an exceptional client experience across our North American platform, 

together with a complementary international presence in select 

industry sectors. 
‰Innovative ideas and expertise delivered through our top-tier 

coverage team, dedicated to understanding and meeting our core 

clients’ needs. 
‰Top-ranked equity and fixed income research, sales and trading 

capabilities with deep expertise in core sectors. 
Strategy and Key Priorities 
BMO Capital Markets’ vision is to be the lead investment bank that 

enables our clients to achieve their ambitions. Our strategy is to provide 

our clients with an integrated platform that is differentiated by leading 

ideas and unified coverage. 
Continue to earn leading market share in Canada by delivering 
leading ideas through our top-tier coverage team 
2013 Achievements 
‰Ranked second in Investment Banking Fee Share using 
Dealogic data. ‰Named Best Investment Bank in Canada by 
Global Finance magazine. ‰2013 Quality Leader for Canadian Equity Trading and Canadian Equity 
Sales – Greenwich Associates. 
‰Ranked #2 as a 2013 Share Leader for Canadian Equity Research/ 

Advisory Portfolio Managers Vote Share by Greenwich Associates. 
‰Ranked #2 (tied) as a 2013 Share Leader for Overall Canadian Fixed-

Income Market Share by Greenwich Associates. 
‰Named Best Bank in Canadian Dollar Foreign Exchange by 
FX Week. 2014 Focus 
‰Continue to earn leading market share in Canada, particularly in 

investment banking fees and trading revenues, without taking 

outsized risk. 
Trading Products 
offers institutional, comme
rcial and retail clients 
access to global markets through an integrated suite of debt, for<

eign exchange, interest rate, credit, equity, securitization and 

commodities solutions. Our services include sales, trading, research 

and distribution of new issues and secondary offerings to institu<

tional investors. We also provide our clients with risk management 

(derivatives) advice and services to hedge against price fluctuations 

on a variety of key inputs, including interest rates and commod<

ities. In addition, we offer efficient funding and liquidity manage<

ment to our clients, as well as to BMO Financial Group. 
Leverage our North American capabilities in select strategic sectors 
in international markets to expand our client offering 
2013 Achievements 
‰Named World’s Best Metals & Mining Investment Bank by 
Global Finance magazine. ‰Named Best Trade Bank in Canada for the fourth consecutive year by 
Trade Finance magazine. ‰Selectively expanded our natural resource presence in London with 

the addition of energy sector capabilities. 
‰Recognized by 
Global M&A Network for Americas Deal of the Year 
(Small Mid Markets), Canada Deal of the Year (Mid Markets), and 

Cross-border Deal of the Year. 
2014 Focus 
‰Continue to serve global clients with North American interests and 
extend our global leadership in select sectors. 
Drive performance from our U.S. platform by leveraging our 
expanded distribution capabilities and focused research and 

coverage in strategic sectors 
2013 Achievements 
‰Nearly tripled investment banking market share in our target U.S. 
mid-cap segment since 2009. 
‰Increased our lead capital-raising mandates in 2013 by more than 

50%, demonstrating our progress with issuer and investor clients for 

both our origination and distribution capabilities. 
‰Increased U.S. net income by 47%. 
2014 Focus 
‰Continue to drive performance from our U.S. client franchise, with an 
emphasis on further increasing our investment banking share of fees 

in the U.S. mid-cap market segment. 
56 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
        Reported Net Income Revenue Revenue by Geography (%) ($ millions) ($ millions) Canada and other countries 3,4283,315 3,2761,0941,021975 United States 69% 31% 69% 68% 
32%31% 2011 2012 2013 
2011 2012 2013 
2011 2012 2013 
Continue to enhance our risk management and regulatory 
compliance practices to be responsive to an evolving regulatory 

environment 2013 Achievements 
‰ Invested in processes to meet new regulatory requirements and 
maintained a consistent, proactive cross-border approach to both 

compliance and risk management. 
‰ Implemented expanded clearing arrangements to comply with the Dodd-

Frank Act. 
2014 Focus 
‰ Continue to monitor and adapt to new regulations as they are enacted. 
Financial Review 
BMO Capital Markets net income increased $73 million or 7% to 
$1,094 million. The increase reflected growth in revenues and higher 

recoveries of credit losses, partially offset by an increase in expenses. 
Revenue increased $152 million or 5% to $3,428 million, driven by 
increases in trading revenues and investment banking fees, particularly 

in our U.S. platform. The stronger U.S. dollar increased revenue by 

$30 million. 
Net interest income increased $47 million or 4%, reflecting growth 
in trading income related to improved market conditions, partially offset 

by a decrease in revenues from interest-rate-sensitive businesses. Non-

interest revenue increased $105 million or 5% from the prior year, 

reflecting growth in trading revenue related to improved market con<

ditions, and an increase in investment and corporate banking revenues 

resulting from higher client activity levels. 
Trading products revenue increased $69 million or 3% from the 
prior year, reflecting growth in trading revenue related to improved 

market conditions, partly offset by a decrease in revenues from interest<

rate-sensitive businesses and lower securities commissions. 
Investment and corporate banking revenue increased $83 million, 
reflecting higher activity levels as well as growth in corporate banking 

revenue. We continue to experience very low levels of credit losses across 
our businesses. The recovery of credit losses was $36 million in 2013, 

compared with a provision of $6 million in 2012. 
Non-interest expense increased $93 million or 5% to $2,049 million 
resulting from stronger revenue performance and increased technology 
and support costs related to a changing business and regulatory 

environment. The stronger U.S. dollar increased expenses by $15 million. 

The group’s efficiency ratio of 59.8% remained relatively unchanged from 

the prior year as revenue growth was offset by higher expenses. 
The provision for income taxes was higher than in the prior year, as 
the provision in 2012 benefited from higher recoveries of prior years’ 

income taxes. 
Average assets of $247.6 billion were relatively unchanged from the 
prior year. Decreases in derivative financial assets, primarily due to 

declines in the fair value of interest rate contracts as a result of rising 

interest rates, were largely offset by increases in securities borrowed or 
BMO Capital Markets 
(Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 
Change from 2012 
As at or for the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 
(%) Net interest income (teb) 
1,238 1,191 1,229 
4;;Non-interest revenue 2,190 2,085 2,086 
5;;Total revenue (teb) 
3,428 3,276 3,315 
5 Provision for (recovery of) credit 
losses (36) 6 32 
(+100) 
Non-interest expense 2,049 1,956 1,896 
5 Income before income taxes 
1,415 1,314 1,387 
8;;Provision for income taxes (teb) 
321 293 412 
10;;Reported net income 
1,094 1,021 975 
7;;Adjusted net income 
1,096 1,022 976 
7;;Key Performance Metrics and Drivers 
Trading Products revenue 
2,146 2,077 2,035 
3 Investment and Corporate Banking 
revenue 1,282 1,199 1,280 
7 Net income growth 
(%) 7 5 20 
nm Revenue growth 
(%) 5 (1) 2 
nm Net economic profit 
471 509 541 
(7) Return on equity 
(%) 18.9 21.7 25.0 
(2.8) 
Operating leverage 
(%) (0.1) (4.3) (3.0) 
nm Efficiency ratio (teb) 
(%) 59.8 59.7 57.2 
0.1 Average common equity 
5,582 4,527 3,723 
23 Average assets 
247,578 251,562 216,306 
(2) Average loans and acceptances 
24,843 23,441 21,351 
6 Average deposits 
121,881 
103,836 92,068 
17 Debt underwriting participation 
(deals) 677 635 525 
7 Equity underwriting participation 
(deals) 292 307 293 
(5) Full-time equivalent employees 
2,278 2,176 2,286 
5 U.S. Business Selected Financial Data 
(US$ in millions) 
Total revenue (teb) 
1,081 1,028 1,038 
5 Non-interest expense 849 828 797 
3 Reported net income 
213 145 104 
47 Average loans and acceptances 
8,567 8,089 7,552 
6 Average deposits 
60,788 48,776 38,112 
25 nm – not meaningful 
purchased under resale agreements related to higher levels of client 
activity, an increase in net loans and acceptances related to growth in 

corporate banking, and higher levels of securities balances. 
Net income from U.S. operations increased US$68 million or 47% to 
US$213 million. Revenue increased from the prior year, driven by 

growth in investment and corporate banking revenue, higher gains on 

securities and an increase in commission fees, partially offset by a 

decline in trading revenue. Recoveries of credit losses were higher. 

Non-interest expense increased from the prior year resulting from 

stronger revenue performance and higher technology and support costs. 

The provision for income taxes was lower than in the prior year, mainly 

due to recoveries of prior years’ income taxes in 2013. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
57 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Business Environment, Outlook 
and Challenges 
BMO Capital Markets’ strong performance in fiscal 2013 reflects our 
balanced, diversified and client-focused business model, as well as our 

disciplined approach to risk management in an environment influenced 

by market factors that contribute to variability in results. There was 

growth in our investment and corporate banking businesses despite a 

reduction in mergers and acquisitions in Canada due to lower levels of 

activity in the natural resource sector and the impact of the protracted 

resolution of the U.S. debt ceiling debate in Congress. Our diversified 

business mix in trading products has enabled us to generate good earn<

ings growth in 2013. The ROE for BMO Capital Markets was 18.9%. 
Looking forward to fiscal 2014, we expect economic growth to 
strengthen in both Canada and the United States. A continuation of low 
interest rates, a reduction in unemployment and low inflation are all 

projected in the United States, as well as stable interest rates in Canada. 

Our capital markets outlook is influenced by the performance of financial 

markets, business confidence and evolving regulatory requirements. 

Despite some areas of weakness and concern in financial markets, we 

anticipate continued growth in revenue and earnings. 
The Canadian and U.S. economic environment in fiscal 2013 and the 
outlook for fiscal 2014 are discussed in more detail in the Economic 

Developments and Outlook section on page 32. 
Caution This BMO Capital Markets section contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Caution 

Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section 
on page 34. 
MD&A 58 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
   Corporate Services, including Technology and Operations; ;
Corporate Services consists of Corporate Units and Technology and 
Operations (T&O). 
Corporate Units provide enterprise-wide expertise and governance 
support in a variety of areas, including strategic planning, risk manage<

ment, finance, legal and compliance, marketing, communications and 

human resources. 
T&O manages, maintains and provides governance over information 
technology, operations services, real estate and sourcing for BMO Finan<

cial Group. 
The costs of Corporate Units and T&O services are largely transferred 
to the three client operating groups (P&C, Wealth Management and BMO 

CM), and only relatively minor amounts are retained in Corporate Serv<

ices results. As such, Corporate Services adjusted operating results 

largely reflect the impact of certain asset-liability management activ<

ities, the elimination of taxable equivalent adjustments, the results from 

certain impaired asset portfolios, and the recovery of credit losses on 

the M&I purchased credit impaired loan portfolio. Corporate Services 

reported results also reflect a number of items and activities that are 

excluded from BMO’s adjusted results to help assess BMO’s perform<

ance. These adjusting items are not reflective of core operating results. 

They are itemized in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. All 

adjusting items are recorded in Corporate Services except the amor<

tization of acquisition-related intangible assets, which is recorded in the 

client operating groups. 
Corporate Services focuses on enterprise-wide priorities that 
improve service quality and efficiency to deliver an excellent customer 

experience. Notable achievements during the year included: 
‰ Advancing the customer experience through: upgrades to our mobile 

banking applications to make them compatible with the Apple tablet 

and iPhone 5
® devices and the launch of BMO InvestorLine’s free 
mobile investing app; the launch of cross-border transfer functionality, 

which allows online business banking customers to transact between 

BMO and BMO Harris Bank U.S. dollar currency accounts in near-real 

time; modernization of the retail branch network, which increases our 

footprint by equipping smaller branches with upgraded technology; 

and improved core banking processes, including mortgage, commer<

cial lending and collections processes, to drive productivity and pro<

vide an enhanced customer experience; 
‰ Continuing to deliver against key performance metrics by exceeding 

channel and critical facilities availability targets and increasing 

straight-through processing; and 
‰ Realizing significant real estate synergies from the M&I integration 

and improving our U.S. operations technology capabilities in channels, 

products, functions and infrastructure. 
Financial Review 
Corporate Services net loss for the year was $130 million, compared 

with net income of $289 million a year ago. 
The adjusted net loss in 2013 was $191 million, compared with 
adjusted net income of $96 million in 2012. Adjusted revenue decreased 

$238 million, primarily due to a group teb offset that was $78 million 

higher than the prior year and a decline in treasury-related items. 

Adjusted non-interest expense was $84 million higher, primarily due to 

increases in pension and benefit costs, as well as regulatory-related and 

technology costs. Adjusted recoveries of credit losses were $41 million 

lower, reflecting lower recoveries on the purchased credit impaired loan 

portfolio, offset in part by recoveries on the impaired real estate loan 

portfolio in 2013, compared to provisions in 2012. The accounting policy 

for purchased loans is discussed in the Purchased Loans section in 

Note 4 on page 137 of the financial statements. The recoveries of credit 

losses on a reported basis were $175 million in 2013. 
Significant components of the recoveries are detailed in the table 
below. Corporate Services, including Technology and Operations 
(Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 
Change from 2012 
As at or for the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 (%) Net interest income before teb 
offset 280 501 (31) (44) Group teb offset 
(344) (266) (220) (29) Net interest income (teb) 
(64) 235 (251) 
(+100); ;
Non-interest revenue 167 478 98 
(65);;Total revenue (teb) 
103 713 (153) 
(86) Provision for (recovery of) 
credit losses 
(175) (152) 147 
(16) Non-interest expense 818 979 524 
(17) Loss before income taxes 
(540) (114) (824) 
(+100);;Recovery of income taxes (teb) 
(410) (403) (509) 
(1);;Reported net income (loss) 
(130) 289 (315) 
(+100) 
Adjusted total revenue (teb) 
(588) (350) (354) 
(69) Adjusted provision for (recovery of) 
credit losses 
(405) (446) 43 
9 Adjusted non-interest expense 
472 388 306 
21 Adjusted net income (loss) 
(191) 96 (209) 
(+100) 
Full-time equivalent employees 
13,308 13,885 13,884 
(4) U.S. Business Select Financial Data 
(US$ millions) 
Total revenue (teb) 
273 613 (9) 
(56) Provision for (recovery of) 
credit losses 
(256) (168) 125 
(52) Non-interest expense 423 538 257 
(21) Recovery of income taxes (teb) 
(6) (6) (241) 
– Reported net income (loss) 
112 
249 (150) 
(56);;Adjusted net income (loss) 
(29) 
210 (102) 
(+100); ;
Corporate Services Provision for Credit Losses 
($ millions) 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 2011 
Impaired real estate loan portfolio 
(43) 19 28 
Purchased credit impaired loans 
(410) (509) – 
Interest on impaired loans 
48 44 15 
Provision for (recovery of) credit losses, 
adjusted basis 
(405) (446) 43 
Collective provision 
(10) 3 86 
Purchased performing loans 
240 291 18 
Provision for (recovery of) credit losses,? ?
reported basis 
(175) (152) 147??
Average loans and acceptances 
972 1,847 1,267??
Year end loans and acceptances 
526 1,314 1,846??
As explained on page 45, BMO analyzes revenues on a teb basis 
at the client operating group level, with an offsetting adjustment in 

Corporate Services. Results reflect teb reductions in net interest income 

and related income taxes. The impact on net interest income is itemized 

in the table above. 
Loans and acceptances at year end were $526 million, a reduction 
of $788 million from a year ago, reflecting run-off in the impaired real 

estate secured loan portfolio. 
MD&A Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
59 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Financial Condition Review 
Summary Balance Sheet 
($ millions) 
As at October 31 
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Assets Cash and interest bearing 
deposits with banks 
32,601 26,282 25,656 20,554 13,295 
Securities 134,981 
128,324 122,115 123,399 110,813 
Securities borrowed or 
purchased under resale 

agreements 39,799 47,011 37,970 28,102 36,006 
Net loans and 
acceptances 279,095 253,835 238,885 176,643 167,829 
Other assets 
50,823 69,997 75,949 62,942 60,515 
537,299 
525,449 500,575 411,640 388,458 
Overview Total assets increased $11.9 billion from the prior year to $537.3 billion. 
The increase was comprised of net loans and acceptances of 

$25.3 billion, securities of $6.7 billion and cash and interest bearing 

deposits with banks of $6.3 billion, partially offset by decreases of 

$19.2 billion in other assets and $7.2 billion in securities borrowed or 

purchased under resale agreements. 
Liabilities and shareholders’ equity increased $11.9 billion. The 
increase was comprised of deposits of $43.1 billion and shareholders’ 

equity of $1.8 billion, partially offset by a decrease of $32.6 billion in 

other liabilities and a decrease of $0.4 billion in non-controlling interest 

in subsidiaries. 
Cash and Interest Bearing Deposits with Banks 
Cash and interest bearing deposits with banks increased $6.3 billion to 

$32.6 billion in 2013, primarily reflecting an increase in balances held 

with the U.S. Federal Reserve due to U.S. deposit growth. 
Securities ($ millions) 
As at October 31 
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Trading 75,159 70,109 69,925 71,710 59,071??
Available-for-sale 53,067 56,382 51,426 50,543 50,257??
Held-to-maturity 6,032 875– – –??
Other 723 958 764 1,146 1,485??
134,981 
128,324 122,115 123,399 110,813 
Securities increased $6.7 billion to $135.0 billion, primarily 
reflecting increases in held-to-maturity securities and trading securities, 

partially offset by a decrease in available-for-sale securities. The 

increase in trading securities is primarily related to client-driven activ<

ities in BMO Capital Markets. The increase in held-to-maturity securities 

reflects higher levels of supplemental liquid assets held to support 

contingent liability requirements. Supplemental liquid assets held in 

available-for-sale securities have declined from the prior year. 
Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Resale 
Agreements Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 
decreased $7.2 billion to $39.8 billion, mainly due to lower levels of 
client-driven activities. 
Loans and Acceptances 
($ millions) 
As at October 31 
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Residential mortgages 
99,328 87,870 81,075 48,715 45,524 
Consumer instalment and 
other personal 
63,640 61,436 59,445 51,159 45,824 
Credit cards 
7,870 7,814 8,038 3,308 2,574 
Businesses and 
governments 101,450 90,402 84,883 68,338 68,169 
Customers’ liability under 
acceptances 8,472 8,019 7,227 7,001 7,640 
Gross loans and 
acceptances 280,760 255,541 240,668 178,521 169,731 
Allowance for credit losses 
(1,665) (1,706) (1,783) (1,878) (1,902) 
Net loans and acceptances 
279,095 253,835 238,885 176,643 167,829 
All 2010 and prior data is based on CGAAP in this section. 
60 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
As at October 31 
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Liabilities and 
Shareholders’ Equity 
Deposits 366,821 323,702 302,373 249,251 236,156 
Other liabilities 
134,538 
167,102 164,197 135,933 126,719 
Subordinated debt 3,996 4,093 5,348 3,776 4,236 
Capital trust securities 
463 462 821 800 1,150 
Shareholders’ equity 
30,409 28,655 26,353 21,880 20,197 
Non-controlling interest in 
subsidiaries (1) 1,072 1,435 1,483 – – 
537,299 
525,449 500,575 411,640 388,458 
(1) Included in other liabilities under CGAAP. 
Net loans and acceptances increased $25.3 billion to $279.1 billion, 
primarily due to an $11.0 billion increase in loans to businesses and 

governments across most operating groups and an $11.5 billion increase 

in residential mortgages in Canadian P&C. The remaining $2.8 billion 

increase includes an increase in consumer instalment and other personal 

loans, primarily due to growth in auto loans and home equity loans, and 

an increase in acceptances. 
Table 11 on page 112 provides a comparative summary of loans by 
geographic location and product. Table 13 on page 113 provides a 

comparative summary of net loans in Canada by province and industry. 

Loan quality is discussed on pages 84 and 85 and further details on 

loans are provided in Notes 4, 5 and 8 to the financial statements, 

starting on page 137. 
Other Assets 
Other assets decreased $19.2 billion to $50.8 billion, primarily reflecting 

a $17.8 billion decrease in derivative financial instrument assets, largely 

due to declines in the fair value of interest rate contracts as a result of 

rising interest rates. The balance of other assets, which includes 

accounts receivable, prepaid expenses, tax receivable and pension 

assets, decreased $1.4 billion. Derivative instruments are detailed in 

Note 10 on page 147 of the financial statements. 
Deposits ($ millions) 
As at October 31 
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Banks Businesses and 
20,591 18,102 20,877 19,435 22,973 governments Individuals 220,798 186,570 159,209 
125,432 119,030 122,287 
130,773 99,043 113,738 99,445 366,821 323,702 302,373 
249,251 236,156 Deposits increased $43.1 billion to $366.8 billion. The increase was 
largely driven by a $34.2 billion increase in deposits by businesses and 

governments, reflecting higher levels of wholesale and customer depos<

its. Deposits by individuals increased $6.4 billion, primarily in Canada, 

while deposits by banks increased $2.5 billion, primarily reflecting 

higher levels of wholesale deposits. Further details on the composition 

of deposits are provided in Note 15 on page 158 of the financial state<

ments and in the Liquidity and Funding Risk section on page 92. 
Other Liabilities 
Other liabilities decreased $32.6 billion to $134.5 billion, primarily driven 

by a decrease of $16.8 billion in derivatives, a decrease of $10.9 billion 

in securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements related to client-

driven activities, and a decrease of $1.0 billion in securities sold but not 

yet purchased. Further details on the composition of other liabilities are 

provided in Note 16 on page 159 of the financial statements. 
   
 Subordinated Debt 
Purchase Plan is described in the Enterprise-Wide Capital Management 
Subordinated debt decreased $0.1 billion. Further details on the composi-
section that follows. Our Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on 
tion of subordinated debt are provided in Note 17 on page 160 of the 
page 128 provides a summary of items that increase or reduce share-
financial statements. 
holders’ equity, while Note 20 on page 163 of the financial statements 
provides details on the components of and changes in share capital. 
Shareholders’ Equity 
Details of our enterprise-wide capital management practices and strat-
Shareholders’ equity increased $1.8 billion to $30.4 billion, reflecting 
egies can be found below. 
growth in retained earnings. BMO’s Dividend Reinvestment and Share 
All 2010 and prior data is based on CGAAP in this section. 
Enterprise-Wide Capital Management ;
As discussed below, BMO’s Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio of 9.9% 

is strong, and in excess of regulatory requirements. 
Objective BMO is committed to a disciplined approach to capital management that 

balances the interests and requirements of shareholders, regulators, 

depositors and rating agencies. Our objective is to maintain a strong 

capital position in a cost-effective structure that: 
‰ is appropriate given our target regulatory capital ratios and internal 

assessment of required economic capital; 
‰ is consistent with our targeted credit ratings; 
‰ underpins our operating groups’ business strategies; and 
‰ supports depositor, investor and regulatory confidence while also 

building long-term shareholder value. 
Capital Management Framework 
The principles and key elements of BMO’s capital management frame<

work are outlined in our capital management corporate policy and in our 

annual capital plan, which includes the results of our Internal Capital 

Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). 
ICAAP is an integrated process that evaluates capital adequacy on 
both a regulatory and an economic capital basis, and is used to establish 

capital targets and capital strategies that take into consideration the 

strategic direction and risk appetite of the enterprise. The capital plan is 

developed considering our ICAAP and in conjunction with our annual 

business plan, promoting alignment between our business and risk 

strategies, regulatory and economic capital requirements and the avail<

ability of capital. Regulatory and economic capital adequacy is assessed 

by comparing capital supply (the amount of capital available to support 

risks) to capital demand (the capital required to support the risks arising 

from our business activities). Enterprise-wide stress testing and scenario 

analysis are also used to assess the impact of various stress conditions 

on BMO’s risk profile and capital requirements. The framework seeks to 

ensure that we are adequately capitalized given the risks we take, and 

supports the determination of limits, goals and performance measures 

that are used to manage balance sheet positions, risk levels and capital 

requirements at both the consolidated entity and line of business levels. 

Assessments of actual and forecast capital adequacy are compared to 

the capital plan throughout the year, and the capital plan is updated as 

required, based on changes in our business activities, risk profile or 

operating environment. 
BMO uses a combination of regulatory and economic capital to 
evaluate business performance and considers capital implications in its 

strategic, tactical and transactional decision-making. By allocating our 

capital supply to operating units and measuring their performance in 

relation to the capital necessary to support the risks in their business, 

we seek to optimize our risk-adjusted return to shareholders, while 

maintaining a well-capitalized position. This approach aims to protect 

our stakeholders from the risks inherent in our various businesses, while 

still allowing the flexibility to deploy resources to strategic growth 
activities of our operating groups. Capital in excess of what is required 

to support our line of business activities is held in Corporate Services. 
Capital Demand 
Capital required 
to support the 

risks underlying 

our business 

activities 
Capital Supply 
Capital available 
to support risks 
Management 
Actions Capital adequacy 
assessment of capital 
demand and supply 
For further discussion of the risks that arise from our business activities, refer to the Enterprise-Wide 
Risk Management section on page 77. 
Governance The Board of Directors, either directly or in conjunction with its Risk 
Review Committee, provides ultimate oversight and approval of capital 

management, including our capital management corporate policy 

framework, capital plan and capital adequacy assessments. The board 

regularly reviews BMO’s capital position, key capital management activ<

ities and, with the Risk Review Committee, the ICAAP-determined 

capital adequacy assessment results. The Balance Sheet and Capital 

Management Committee provides senior management oversight, 

including the review and discussion of significant capital management 

policies, issues and activities and, along with the Risk Management 

Committee, the capital required to support the execution of our 

enterprise-wide strategy. Finance and Risk Management are responsible 

for the design and implementation of the corporate policies and frame<

work related to capital, risk management and the ICAAP. 
Risk-Weighted Asset Approaches 
BMO primarily uses the Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) 

Approach to determine credit risk-weighted assets (RWA) in our portfo<

lio, and the Standardized Approach to determine operational risk RWA. 

Credit RWA arising from certain U.S. portfolios are determined using the 

Standardized Approach. BMO’s market risk RWA are primarily 

determined using the Internal Models Approach, but the Standardized 

Approach is used for some exposures. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
61 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
The AIRB Approach is the most advanced of the approaches for 
determining credit risk capital requirements. It utilizes sophisticated 
techniques to measure RWA at the exposure level based on sound risk 

management principles, including consideration of estimates of the 

probability of default, the likely loss given default and exposure at 

default, term to maturity and the type of Basel Asset Class exposure. 

These risk parameters are determined using historical portfolio data 

supplemented by benchmarking, and are updated periodically. Vali<

dation procedures related to these parameters are in place and are 

enhanced periodically in order to appropriately quantify and differ<

entiate risks so they reflect changes in economic and credit conditions. 
Under the Standardized Approach, operational risk capital require<
ments are based on the size and type of our lines of business. As 

defined under Basel rules adopted by the Office of the Superintendent of 

Financial Institutions Canada (OSFI), gross income serves as a proxy for 

the size of the line of business and as an indicator of operational risk. 

Gross income is segmented into eight regulatory business lines by 

business type, and each segment amount is multiplied by a 

corresponding factor prescribed by the Basel framework to determine its 

operational risk capital requirement. The table that follows provides a 

breakdown of our RWA by risk type. 
Risk-Weighted Assets 
($ millions) 
2013 2012 As at October 31 
(Basel III) 
(Basel II) 
Credit risk 
179,289 
171,955 Market risk 
9,154 7,598 Operational risk 
26,651 25,677 Total RWA 
215,094 
205,230 2013 Regulatory Capital Review 
Effective the first quarter of 2013, regulatory capital requirements for 

BMO are determined on a Basel III basis. In 2013, the minimum Basel III 

capital ratios proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 

(BCBS) were a 3.5% Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Ratio, 4.5% Tier 1 

Capital Ratio and 8% Total Capital Ratio, such ratios being calculated 

using a five-year transitional phase-in of regulatory adjustments and a 

nine-year transitional phase-out of instruments that no longer qualify as 

regulatory capital under the Basel III rules. However, guidance issued by 

OSFI (also referred to as the “all-in” requirements) required Canadian 

deposit-taking institutions to meet the 2019 Basel III capital require<

ments in 2013, other than the phase-out of non-qualifying capital 

instruments, and expected them to attain a target Basel III CET1 Ratio of 

at least 7% (4.5% minimum plus 2.5% Capital Conservation Buffer) by 

January 31, 2013. 
BCBS has released a framework for the determination of additional 
capital requirements for domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs). 

In March 2013, OSFI issued guidance designating the six largest Cana<

dian banks, including BMO, as D-SIBs. The D-SIBs will be subject to 

continued enhanced supervision and disclosure and, commencing on 

January 1, 2016, will be required to hold an additional 1% CET1 capital 

buffer as part of an increased Capital Conservation Buffer. No Canadian 

banks are currently considered to be globally systemically important. 
The fully implemented Basel III requirements and the OSFI “all-in” 
Basel III requirements are summarized in the following table. 
Regulatory Requirements (% of Risk-Weighted Assets) 
Common Equity Tier 1 
Ratio (1) 
Tier 1 
Capital Ratio Total Capital Ratio Leverage Ratio (3) 
Basel III – Stated 2019 minimum 
requirements Plus: Capital Conservation Buffer 
(2) (effective January 1, 2013) 
4.5 2.5 6.0 
2.5 8.0 
2.5 3.0 na Plus: D-SIB Common Equity capital buffer 
(effective January 1, 2016) 
1.0 1.0 1.0 na OSFI Basel III effective requirements 
(4) 8.0 9.5 11.5 3.0 (1) The minimum 4.5% CET1 Ratio requirement is augmented by the 2.5% Capital Conservation 
Buffer that can absorb losses during periods of stress. The Capital Conservation Buffer for 

BMO will increase to 3.5% CET1 due to the addition of the D-SIB buffer. If a bank’s capital 

ratios fall within the range of this buffer, restrictions on discretionary distributions of 

earnings (such as dividends, equity repurchases and discretionary compensation) would 

ensue, with the degree of such restrictions varying according to the position of the bank’s 

ratios within the buffer range. 
(2) The Capital Conservation Buffer does not include the counter-cyclical capital buffer of up to 

2.5% of CET1, which may be required on a national basis by supervisors if they perceive 

credit growth resulting in systemic risk. If imposed, this additional buffer is effectively 

combined with the Capital Conservation Buffer. 
(3) A 3% minimum Leverage Ratio has been proposed by the BCBS. It will be subject to 

monitoring and analysis during a four-year parallel run test period, which began on 

January 1, 2013. Depending upon the results of the parallel run testing, there could be 

subsequent adjustments, which are targeted to be finalized in 2017, with the final Leverage 

Ratio requirement effective January 1, 2018. OSFI currently monitors bank leverage using the 

Assets-to-Capital Multiple, which is based on total capital. The proposed Basel III Leverage 

Ratio is based on Tier 1 capital. 
(4) OSFI’s Basel III “effective requirements” are the capital requirements systemically important 

Canadian banks must meet in 2016 to avoid being subject to restrictions on discretionary 

distributions of earnings. 
na – not applicable 
Common equity is the most permanent form of capital. Under Basel III, 
CET1 is comprised of common shareholders’ equity less deductions for 

goodwill, intangible assets, pension assets, certain deferred tax assets 

and certain other items. Additional Tier 1 capital primarily consists of 

preferred shares and innovative hybrid instruments, less certain regu<

latory deductions. Tier 1 capital is comprised of CET1 and Additional 

Tier 1 capital. 
Our Basel III CET1 and Tier 1 capital were $21.2 billion and 
$24.6 billion, respectively, at October 31, 2013, up from the pro-forma 

estimates of $19.3 billion and $23.2 billion, respectively, at October 31, 

2012. Basel III CET1 capital increased due to retained earnings growth, 

increases to accumulated other comprehensive income, the issuance of 

common shares through the Shareholder Dividend Reinvestment and 

Share Purchase Plan (DRIP) and the exercise of stock options, partially 

offset by the purchase and cancellation of shares under BMO’s share 

repurchase program and payment of dividends. Pro-forma estimates of 

Basel III capital amounts and ratios have not been updated to reflect the 

Basel III rules set out in OSFI’s Capital Adequacy Requirements Guideline 

released in December 2012. The increase in Tier 1 capital from the 

October 31, 2012 pro-forma estimate, was attributable to the growth in 

CET1 capital, partially offset by the redemption of preferred shares, as 

outlined below in the Capital Management Activities section. 
Total capital includes Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. Tier 2 capital is 
primarily comprised of subordinated debentures and a portion of the 

collective allowance for credit losses, less certain regulatory deductions. 

Basel III Total capital was $29.5 billion at October 31, 2013, up from the 

pro-forma estimate of $28.5 billion at October 31, 2012, attributable to 

the growth in Tier 1 capital mentioned above, partially offset by the 

phase-out of Tier 2 instruments that no longer qualify as capital under 

Basel III, as mentioned above and further explained below. 
The Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio 
reflects Basel III CET1 
capital divided by RWA. 
The Basel III Tier 1 Capital Ratio 
reflects Basel III Tier 1 capital 
divided by RWA. 

The Basel III Total Capital Ratio 
reflects Basel III Total capital divided 
by RWA. 
62 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
 The Assets-to-Capital Multiple 
reflects total assets, including speci<
fied off-balance sheet items net of other specified deductions, div<
ided by Total capital, calculated on a transitional basis. 
The Leverage Ratio 
is defined as Basel III Tier 1 capital divided by 
the sum of on-balance sheet items and specified off-balance sheet 
items, net of specified deductions. The BCBS has proposed that it be 

disclosed in 2015 and that it should be in effect in 2018. 
Basel III Regulatory Capital 
($ millions) 
All-in Transitional As at October 31 
2013 (1) 2013 (2) Gross Common Equity 
(3) 28,144 28,144 
Regulatory adjustments applied to Common 
Equity (6,917) 9 Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) 
21,227 28,153 Additional Tier 1 eligible capital 
(4) 3,781 3,781 Regulatory adjustments applied to Tier 1 
(409) (3,781) Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1) 
3,372 – Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 
24,599 28,153 Tier 2 eligible capital 
(5) 4,951 4,951 Regulatory adjustments applied to Tier 2 
(50) (13) Tier 2 capital (T2) 
4,901 4,938 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 
29,500 33,091 (1) “All-in” regulatory capital assumes that all Basel III regulatory adjustments are applied 
effective January 1, 2013, and that the capital value of instruments that no longer qualify as 

regulatory capital under Basel III rules will be phased out at a rate of 10% per year from 

January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2022. 
(2) Transitional regulatory capital assumes that all Basel III regulatory capital adjustments are 

phased in from January 1, 2014, to January 1, 2018, and that the capital value of instruments 

that no longer qualify as regulatory capital under Basel III rules will be phased out at a rate 

of 10% per year from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2022. 
(3) Gross Common Equity includes issued qualifying common shares, retained earnings, 

accumulated other comprehensive income and eligible common share capital issued by 

subsidiaries. (4) Additional Tier 1 eligible capital includes directly and indirectly issued qualifying Additional 

Tier 1 instruments and directly and indirectly issued capital instruments, to the extent 

eligible, that are subject to phase-out under Basel III. 
(5) Tier 2 eligible capital includes directly and indirectly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments and 

directly and indirectly issued capital instruments, to the extent eligible, that are subject to 

phase-out under Basel III. 
BMO’s Basel III capital ratios are strong and exceed OSFI’s requirements 
for large Canadian banks, including the 1% D-SIB CET1 capital buffer to 

be implemented in 2016, positioning us well as we continue to execute 

our growth strategy. Our Basel III CET1 Ratio was 9.9% at October 31, 

2013, compared to a pro-forma estimate of 8.7% at October 31, 2012. 

The pro-forma estimate of our CET1 Ratio at October 31, 2012 reflected 

an estimate of the full Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) risk capital 

charge, implementation of which was subsequently delayed during 

2013, and which is being phased in commencing in 2014 as explained 

below. The Basel III CET1 Ratio increased 120 basis points from the pro<

forma estimate at the end of fiscal 2012 primarily due to higher CET1, as 

described above, but the delayed implementation of the CVA risk capital 

charge has increased our October 31, 2013 CET1 Ratio by approximately 

30 basis points. 
Our Basel III Tier 1 Capital Ratio and Total Capital Ratio were 11.4% 
and 13.7%, respectively, at October 31, 2013, compared to 10.5% and 

12.9%, respectively, on a pro-forma basis at October 31, 2012. The 

Basel III Tier 1 Capital Ratio increased 90 basis points from the pro-forma 

estimate at the end of fiscal 2012 and the Basel III Total Capital Ratio 

was up 80 basis points, in both cases due primarily to higher CET1. 
BMO’s Assets-to-Capital Multiple, a leverage ratio monitored by 
OSFI, was 15.6 at October 31, 2013, up from 15.2 at October 31, 2012, 

on a pro-forma Basel III basis, primarily due to adjusted asset growth, 

partly offset by higher CET1. The multiple remains well below the 

maximum permitted by OSFI. OSFI has indicated that it intends to adopt 

the Basel III Leverage Ratio, which is scheduled for ongoing disclosure in 

2015 and to become a required minimum ratio (currently proposed to 

be a 3% minimum requirement) in 2018. If the Basel III Leverage Ratio 
was in force at the end of Q4 2013, BMO expects that it would have a 

Leverage Ratio comfortably in excess of the 3% minimum requirement. 

As such, BMO plans to comply with the Basel III Leverage Ratio by con<

tinuing to manage its leverage in keeping with past practices. 
BMO’s investments in foreign operations are primarily denominated 
in U.S. dollars. As discussed in the Provision for Income Taxes section, 

foreign exchange gains or losses on the translation of the investments 

in foreign operations to Canadian dollars are reported in shareholders’ 

equity, although they do not attract tax until realized. The combination 

of these foreign exchange gains and losses, along with the impact of 

foreign exchange fluctuations on U.S.-dollar-denominated RWA and on 

U.S.-dollar-denominated regulatory capital deductions, creates potential 

volatility in BMO’s capital ratios. BMO may, as discussed in the Provision 

for Income Taxes section, partially hedge this foreign exchange risk by 

funding its foreign investments in U.S. dollars. Alternatively, to reduce 

the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on BMO’s capital ratios, 

BMO may enter into derivatives that create an offset to such foreign 

exchange-driven volatility or elect to fund those U.S. dollar investments 

in Canadian dollars. 
Capital Measures 
Assets-to-Capital Multiple (times) 
Common Equity Ratio (%) 
Tier 1 Capital Ratio (%) 
Total Capital Ratio (%) 
2011 20122010 10.3 9.6 10.5 12.6 14.9 12.0 14.9 13.5 14.5x 13.7x 15.2x 15.9 2013* 9.9 11.4 13.7 15.6x 2013 based on Basel III; 2012 and prior based on Basel II.*BMO conducts business through a variety of corporate structures, 
including subsidiaries and joint ventures. All of our subsidiaries must 

meet the regulatory and legislative requirements of the jurisdictions in 

which they operate. A framework is in place to provide subsidiaries and 

their parent entities with access to capital and funding to support their 

ongoing operations under both normal and stressed conditions. 
OSFI’s Basel III capital rules include rules to implement the BCBS 
guidance on non-viability contingent capital (NVCC). The guidance stip<

ulates that in order to qualify as regulatory capital, a bank’s non-

common share capital instruments must provide that they can be 

converted into CET1 in the event OSFI determines that it is non-viable 

and that either its rescue is in the public interest (in which case NVCC 

investors will bear losses before taxpayers) or conversion is reasonably 

likely to restore the bank to viability. All non-common instruments 

issued after December 31, 2012, must meet these NVCC requirements to 

qualify as regulatory capital. 
OSFI’s Basel III rules provide guidance on the treatment of non-
common share capital instruments that do not meet Basel III require<

ments, including NVCC requirements. Instruments that do not meet 

Basel III requirements are subject to grandfathering provisions, requiring 

that they be phased out over a nine-year period that began on 

January 1, 2013, at which point their recognition as regulatory capital 

was capped at 90% of their total value as at that date. The cap reduces 

by one-tenth in each subsequent year. Under Basel III, BMO’s existing 

preferred shares, innovative Tier 1 capital (BMO Capital Trust Securities 

and BMO Tier 1 Notes) and Tier 2 subordinated debt instruments do not 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
63 MD&A  BMO MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
qualify as regulatory capital and are being phased out as discussed 
above. OSFI’s guidance also outlines the requirements for redemption of 

these regulatory capital instruments due to a regulatory capital event. 

BMO currently does not expect to redeem any outstanding regulatory 

capital instruments through a regulatory capital event. 
A number of other potential regulatory changes are still pending. 
For example, OSFI may implement a “solo” capital framework that 

would assess a bank’s stand-alone capital adequacy by reducing such 

bank’s capital by the portion of its investments in subsidiaries that are 

not considered available to protect the parent bank creditors under 

exceptional circumstances. These changes could affect the amount of 

capital that we hold or are required to hold, or the attractiveness of 

certain investments in subsidiaries. We cannot forecast the timing or the 

consequences of such potential changes. 
In addition, in 2014, certain other changes will impact our regu<
latory capital. In a letter dated August 21, 2013, OSFI advised banks that 

it will begin phasing in the CVA risk capital charge for Canadian banks in 

the first quarter of 2014. The CVA risk capital charge applicable to BMO’s 

CET1 during fiscal 2014 will be 57% of the fully implemented charge, 

and this will increase each year until it reaches 100% by 2019. BMO 
Economic Capital and RWA by Operating Group and Risk Type 
As at October 31, 2013 
estimates that its Basel III CET1 Ratio at October 31, 2013, would have 

been reduced by approximately 20 basis points if the CVA risk capital 

charge (at 57% of the fully implemented charge) for 2014 was in effect 

on such date. 
As discussed in Note 1 on page 130 of the financial statements, 
effective November 1, 2013, BMO adopted International Accounting 

Standard 19R Employee Benefits. If we had adopted this standard for 

October 31, 2013, our Basel III CET1 Ratio at October 31, 2013, would 

have been reduced by less than 5 basis points. 
Economic Capital Review 
Economic capital is a measure of our internal assessment of the risks 

underlying BMO’s business activities. It represents management’s 

estimation of the likely magnitude of economic losses that could occur 

should adverse situations arise, and allows returns to be measured on a 

basis that considers the risks taken. Economic capital is calculated for 

various types of risk – credit, market (trading and non-trading), 

operational and business – based on a one-year time horizon. Economic 

capital is a key element of our risk-based capital management and 

ICAAP framework. 
Operating groups: P&C Banking Economic Capital by Risk Type Credit 80%˜˜Market 3%˜˜Operational/Other 17%˜˜RWA by Risk Type (Canadian $ in millions) Credit $116,285˜˜Market˜˜Operational $15,441˜˜Capital Management Activities 
On December 4, 2012, we announced our intention, and subsequently 
obtained the approval of OSFI and the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX), to 

initiate a normal course issuer bid (NCIB) to purchase up to 15 million of 

BMO’s common shares on the TSX for the purpose of cancellation. During 

fiscal 2013, we purchased 10.7 million shares under BMO’s NCIB share 

repurchase program. The current NCIB is set to expire on January 31, 2014. 
On December 3, 2013, BMO announced its intention, subject to the 
approval of OSFI and the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX), to initiate a new 

NCIB for up to 15 million of its common shares, commencing on or about 

February 1, 2014, after the expiry of the current NCIB. Once approvals are 

obtained, the share repurchase program will permit BMO to purchase its 

common shares on the TSX for the purpose of cancellation. Maintaining a 

NCIB is part of BMO’s capital management strategy. The timing and 

amount of any purchases under the program are subject to regulatory 

approvals and to management discretion based on factors such as market 

conditions and capital adequacy. 
Wealth Management 27% 33% 
40% $7,856 $593 $4,018 BMO Capital Markets Corporate Services 50% 92% 22% 3% 28% 5% $39,125 $16,023 $8,527 $34 $7,192 BMO issued 4.1 million shares during 2013 through the DRIP and 
the exercise of stock options. On February 25, 2013, we redeemed all of 
our $200 million Non-cumulative Class B Preferred shares, Series 5. On 

April 30, 2013, we redeemed all of the US$250 million Non-cumulative 

perpetual exchangeable Preferred shares, Series A issued by Harris 

Preferred Capital Corporation. 
On July 22, 2013, we announced that we did not intend to exercise 
our right to redeem our $300 million Non-cumulative 5-Year rate reset 
Class B Preferred shares, Series 16 (Series 16 Preferred shares). As a 

result, the holders of the Series 16 Preferred shares had the right, at their 

option, to convert all or part of their Series 16 Preferred shares on a one-

for-one basis into Non-cumulative Floating Rate Class B Preferred shares, 

Series 17 (Series 17 Preferred shares). As a result, approximately 6.3 

million Series 16 Preferred shares and approximately 5.7 million Series 17 

Preferred shares will be outstanding for the five-year period commencing 

on August 26, 2013. 
Further details are provided in Notes 17, 18 and 20 on pages 160, 
161 and 163 of the financial statements. 
64 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
   
Outstanding Shares and Securities Convertible into 
Common Shares 
Number of shares 
Dividends declared per share 
or dollar amount 
As at November 27, 2013 
(in millions) 
2013 2012 2011 
Common shares 
644 $2.94 $2.82 $2.80 Class B Preferred shares 
Series 5 
(1) – – $1.33 $1.33 Series 13 
$350 $1.13 $1.13 $1.13 Series 14 
$250 $1.31 $1.31 $1.31 Series 15 
$250 $1.45 $1.45 $1.45 Series 16 
(2) $157 $1.19 $1.30 $1.30 Series 17 
(2) $143 $0.17 – – Series 18 
$150 $1.63 $1.63 $1.63 Series 21 
$275 $1.63 $1.63 $1.63 Series 23 
$400 $1.35 $1.35 $1.35 Series 25 
$290 $0.98 $0.98 $0.69 Convertible into common shares: 
Class B Preferred shares 
Series 10 
(3) – – US$0.37 US$1.49 Stock options 
– vested 
7.1 – non-vested 
7.7 (1) Redeemed in February 2013. 
(2) In August 2013, approximately 5.7 million Series 16 Preferred shares were converted into 
Series 17 Preferred shares on a one-for-one basis. 
(3) Redeemed in February 2012.? ?
Note 20 on page 163 of the financial statements includes details on share capital.? ?
Dividends Dividends declared per common share in fiscal 2013 totalled $2.94. 
Annual dividends declared represented 47% of net income and adjusted 

net income available to common shareholders on a last twelve months 

basis. Over the long term, BMO’s dividends are generally increased in 

line with trends in earnings per share growth. 
Our target dividend payout range (common share dividends as a 
percentage of net income available to shareholders, less preferred share 
dividends, based on adjusted earnings over the last twelve months) is 

40-50%, which is consistent with our objective of maintaining flexibility 

to execute on our growth strategies and takes into consideration the 

higher capital expectations resulting from the Basel III rules. BMO’s 

target dividend payout range seeks to provide shareholders with stable 

income, while ensuring sufficient earnings are retained to support 

anticipated business growth, fund strategic investments and provide 

continued support for depositors. 
At year end, BMO’s common shares provided a 4.0% annual divi<
dend yield based on the year-end closing share price and dividends 

declared in the last four quarters. On December 3, 2013, BMO 

announced that the Board of Directors had declared a quarterly dividend 

on common shares of $0.76 per share, up $0.02 from the prior quarter 

and up $0.04 from a year ago. The dividend is payable on February 26, 

2014 to shareholders of record on February 3, 2014. 
Common shareholders may elect to have their cash dividends 
reinvested in common shares of BMO in accordance with the DRIP. In 

the first three quarters of 2013, common shareholders who elected to 

reinvest dividends in common shares of BMO were issued shares from 

treasury. Commencing with the dividend paid in the fourth quarter of 

2013, common shares to supply the DRIP were purchased on the open 

market. BMO may elect to revert to treasury issuances at its discretion 

by providing notice to shareholders before the dividends are paid. 
Eligible Dividends Designation 
For the purposes of the 
Income Tax Act (Canada) and any similar provin<
cial and territorial legislation, BMO designates all dividends paid or 

deemed to be paid on both its common and preferred shares as 

“eligible dividends”, unless indicated otherwise. 
Caution 
This Enterprise-Wide Capital Management section contains forward-looking statements. 

Please see the Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
MD&A Select Financial Instruments 
The Financial Stability Board (FSB) issued a report encouraging enhanced 

disclosure related to financial instruments that market participants had 

come to regard as carrying higher risk. An index of where the disclosures 

recommended by the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force of the FSB are 

located is provided on page 75. 
Caution Given continued uncertainty in the capital markets environment, our 

capital markets instruments could experience valuation gains and losses 

due to changes in market value. This section, Select Financial Instru<

ments, contains forward-looking statements. Please see the Caution 

Regarding Forward-Looking Statements on page 29. 
Consumer Loans 
In the United States, mortgage loans and home equity products are 

underwritten to conservative standards relative to credit scores and loan 

to value ratios and capacity assessment is generally based upon docu<

mented and verifiable income. Non-traditional mortgage programs such 

as interest-only mortgages were discontinued at the onset of the recent 

economic downturn and account for less than 1% of the U.S. mortgage 

portfolio. Indirect lending (primarily auto loans) is also predicated upon 

strong underwriting criteria and leverages a well-managed dealer 

network across a diverse geographic footprint. 
In Canada, BMO does not have any subprime mortgage programs, 
nor do we purchase subprime mortgage loans from third-party lenders. 
Leveraged Finance 
Leveraged finance loans are defined by BMO as loans to private equity 

businesses and mezzanine financings where our assessment indicates a 

higher level of credit risk. BMO has exposure to leveraged finance loans, 

which represent 1.2% of our total assets, with $6.5 billion outstanding 

at October 31, 2013, up approximately $0.7 billion from a year ago. Of 

this amount, $82 million or 1.3% of leveraged finance loans were classi<

fied as impaired ($152 million or 2.6% in 2012). 
Monoline Insurers and Credit Derivative Product 
Companies At October 31, 2013, BMO’s direct exposure to companies that specialize 
in providing default protection was winding down and amounted to 

$10 million of the mark-to-market value of counterparty derivatives 

($25 million in 2012). The cumulative adjustment for counterparty credit 

risk recorded against these exposures was $nil ($6 million in 2012). 
Certain credit derivative product counterparty exposures are discussed 
further in the Exposure to Other Select Financial Instruments section. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
65 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
BMO-Sponsored Securitization Vehicles 
BMO sponsors various vehicles that fund assets originated by either 
BMO (through a bank securitization vehicle) or its customers (several 

Canadian customer securitization vehicles and one U.S. customer 

securitization vehicle). We earn fees for providing services related to the 

securitizations in the customer securitization vehicles, including liquidity, 

distribution and financial arrangement fees for supporting the ongoing 

operations of the vehicles. These fees totalled approximately $53 million 

in 2013 and $38 million in 2012. 
Canadian Customer Securitization Vehicles 
The customer securitization vehicles we sponsor in Canada provide our 

customers with access to financing either directly from BMO or in the asset-

backed commercial paper (ABCP) mark
ets. Customers sell their assets into 

these vehicles, which then issue ABCP to either investors or BMO to fund 

the purchases. In all cases, the sellers continue to service the transferred 

assets and are first to absorb any losses realized on the assets. 
Our exposure to potential losses relates to our investment in ABCP 
issued by the vehicles, derivative contracts we have entered into with 

the vehicles and the liquidity support we provide to ABCP purchased by 

investors. We use our credit adjudication process in deciding whether to 

enter into these agreements just as we do when extending credit in the 

form of a loan. 
Two of these customer securitization vehicles are funded in the 
market, while a third is funded directly by BMO. BMO consolidates the 

assets of the customer securitization vehicles that BMO is deemed to 

control. Further information on the consolidation of customer securitiza<

tion vehicles is provided in Note 9 on page 145 of the financial state<

ments. There were no mortgage loans with subprime or Alt-A 

characteristics held in any of the customer securitization vehicles at 

year end. No losses have been recorded on any of BMO’s exposures to 

these vehicles. 
BMO’s investment in the ABCP of the market-funded vehicles 
totalled $13 million at October 31, 2013 ($20 million in 2012). 
BMO provided liquidity support facilities to the market-funded 
vehicles totalling $3.9 billion at October 31, 2013 ($3.7 billion in 2012). 

This amount comprised part of other credit instruments outlined in 

Note 5 on page 141 of the financial statements. All of these facilities 

remain undrawn. The assets of each of these market-funded customer 

securitization vehicles consist primarily of diversified pools of Canadian 

automobile-related receivables and Canadian insured residential mort<

gages. These two asset classes represent 77% (83% in 2012) of the 

aggregate assets of these vehicles. 
U.S. Customer Securitization Vehicle 
We sponsor a U.S. ABCP multi-seller vehicle that we consolidate under 

IFRS. This customer securitization vehicle assists our customers with the 

securitization of their assets to provide them with alternative sources of 

funding. The vehicle provides funding to diversified pools of portfolios 

through 47 (57 in 2012) individual securitization transactions with an 

average facility size of US$94 million (US$73 million in 2012). The size 

of the pools ranged from US$2 million to US$500 million at October 31, 

2013. There were no residential mortgages classified as subprime or 

Alt-A held in this ABCP multi-seller vehicle. 
Approximately 49% of the vehicle’s commitments have been rated 
by Moody’s or S&P, and 52% of those are rated A or higher. The vehicle 
holds exposures secured by a variety of asset classes, including mid-

market corporate loans, commercial real estate and auto loans. 
The vehicle had US$3.4 billion of commercial paper outstanding at 
October 31, 2013 (US$3.1 billion in 2012). The ABCP of the vehicle is 

rated A1 by S&P and P1 by Moody’s. BMO has not invested in the vehi<

cle’s ABCP. BMO provides committed liquidity support facilities to the 

vehicle, with the undrawn amount totalling US$4.5 billion at October 31, 

2013 (US$4.1 billion in 2012). 
Credit Protection Vehicle 
We also sponsor Apex Trust (Apex), a Canadian special purpose vehicle 

that has exposure to tranches of diversified corporate credits, each of 

which has the benefit of first-loss protection. We consolidate Apex under 

IFRS. Seven tranches matured in 2013 without loss. The two remaining 

tranches have notional amounts totalling $7.8 billion and significant 

first-loss protection, ranging from 12% to 28% of the notional 

exposures, with a weighted average of 25%. The longest-dated tranche 

matures in 2016 and has first-loss protection of 28%. Approximately 

65% of the corporate credits are rated investment grade. Apex has 

$1.4 billion of notes outstanding (Apex Notes), with $1.05 billion having 

an expected maturity date in the first quarter of 2014 and the remainder 

in 2016. BMO has hedged its exposure to its holdings of Apex Notes. 

BMO has entered into credit default swap contracts on the net notional 

positions in the structure with the swap counterparties and into off<

setting swaps with Apex. 
Given the level of first-loss protection supporting the tranches, the 
hedges in place on BMO’s Apex Note holdings and the protection pro<

vided by third-party noteholders, BMO is extremely well protected from 

losses in relation to Apex. 
Structured Investment Vehicle 
In 2013, we provided senior funding through a loan facility to a London-

managed BMO structured investment vehicle (SIV), Links Finance Corpo<

ration (Links). We consolidated the SIV under IFRS. Our exposure to 

potential losses in the SIV related to the loan facility that was put in 

place in order to fund the repayment of its senior notes and to allow for 

the orderly sale of its assets. In the third quarter of 2013, our loan 

facility was repaid in full. In the fourth quarter, all of the remaining 

assets of the SIV were sold. Links is currently in the process of being 

wound up. 
Exposure to Other Select Financial Instruments, including 
Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs) and Collateralized 

Loan Obligations (CLOs) 
BMO’s trading and available-for-sale portfolios contain CLOs, all of which 
are in run-off mode. The underlying securities consist of a wide range of 

corporate assets. Unhedged exposures to CLOs totalled $278 million and 

had credit ratings of AA-to AAA at year end. Hedged CLO exposures of 

$571 million had a carrying value of $560 million at year end, with 

$11 million recoverable on associated hedges with a monoline insurer 

that is rated A3 by Moody’s. 
The portfolio also contains a credit default swap (CDS) transaction 
referencing CDO instruments where we do not hold the underlying 

derivative asset. The CDS protection outstanding is on a notional amount 

of $500 million, and had a carrying value of ($2) million at year end. 
66 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Select Geographic Exposures 
BMO’s geographic exposure is subject to a country risk management 
framework that incorporates economic and political assessments, and 

management of exposure within limits based on product, entity and the 

country of ultimate risk. We closely monitor our European exposure, and 

our risk management processes incorporate stress tests where appro<

priate to assess our potential risk. Our exposure to select countries of 

interest, as at October 31, 2013, is set out in the tables that follow, 

which summarize our exposure to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and 

Spain (GIIPS) along with a broader group of countries of interest in 

Europe where our gross exposure is greater than $500 million. 
The first table outlines total gross and net portfolio exposures for 
lending, securities (inclusive of credit default swap (CDS) activity), repo<

style transactions and derivatives. These totals are further broken down 

by counterparty type in Tables 20 to 22 on pages 119 and 120. 
For greater clarity, BMO’s CDS exposures in Europe are outlined 
separately in the second table that follows. As part of our credit risk 

management framework, purchased CDS risk is controlled through a 

regularly reviewed list of approved counterparties. The majority of CDS 

exposures are offsetting in nature, typically contain matched contractual 

terms and are attributable to legacy credit trading strategies that have 

been in run-off mode since 2008. 
European Exposure by Country and Counterparty 
(9) (Canadian $ in millions) 
As at October 31, 2013 
Lending (1) 
Securities (2) 
Repo-style transactions (3) 
Derivatives (4) 
Total Country Commitments Funded Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net GIIPS Greece – – – – – – – – – – Ireland (5) – – 26 – 27 1 33 4 86 5 Italy 2 2 196 – 54 – 5 1 257 3 Portugal – – 130 – – – – – 130 – Spain 77 77 125 – – – 7 1 209 78 Total – GIIPS 
(6) 79 79 477 – 81 1 45 6 682 86 Eurozone (excluding GIIPS) 

France 22 22 634 494 2,966 9 190 45 3,812 570 Germany 21 21 1,660 1,347 1,098 2 54 30 2,833 1,400 Netherlands 338 163 811 737 1,112 4 52 15 2,313 919 Other (7) 421 256 340 201 23 2 62 13 846 472 Total – Eurozone (excluding GIIPS) 
(8) 802 462 3,445 2,779 5,199 17 358 103 9,804 3,361 Rest of Europe 

Denmark 15 15 1,126 1,124 69 – 7 7 1,217 1,146 Norway 16 16 1,250 1,250 – – – – 1,266 1,266 Sweden 121 64 280 276 111 – 1 – 513 340 Switzerland 546 163 48 – 330 7 3 19 927 189 United Kingdom 
485 222 365 122 3,534 50 251 89 4,635 483 Other (7) 476 476 341 – – – – – 817 476 Total – Rest of Europe 
(8) 1,659 956 3,410 2,772 4,044 57 262 115 9,375 3,900 Total – All of Europe 
2,540 1,497 7,332 5,551 9,324 75 665 224 19,861 7,347 As at October 31, 2012 
Lending (1) 
Securities (2) 
Repo-style transactions (3) 
Derivatives (4) 
Total Country Commitments Funded Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Total – GIIPS 
116 69 500 – 242 8 69 6 927 83 Total – Eurozone (excluding GIIPS) 
934 608 4,074 3,306 3,746 10 600 76 9,354 4,000 Total – Rest of Europe 
1,167 916 3,711 2,771 3,986 15 468 126 9,332 3,828 Total – All of Europe 
2,217 1,593 8,285 6,077 7,974 33 1,137 208 19,613 7,911 MD&A Note: Further breakdown by country and counterparty is provided in Tables 20 to 22 on 
pages 119 to 120. 

(1) Lending includes loans and trade finance. Amounts are net of write-offs and gross of specific 

allowances, both of which are not considered material. 
(2) Securities includes cash products, insurance investments and traded credit. Gross traded 

credit includes only the long positions and excludes offsetting short positions. 
(3) Repo-style transactions are all with bank counterparties. 
(4) Derivatives amounts are marked-to-market, incorporating transaction netting and, for 

counterparties where a Credit Support Annex is in effect, collateral offsets. Derivative 

replacement risk net of collateral for all of Europe is approximately $3.0 billion as at 

October 31, 2013. 
(5) Does not include Irish subsidiary reserves we are required to maintain with the Irish Central 

Bank of $86 million as at October 31, 2013. 
(6) BMO’s direct exposures to GIIPS are primarily to banks for trade finance and trading 

products. Net exposures remain modest at $86 million, with no unfunded commitments as 

at October 31, 2013. 
(7) Includes countries with less than $500 million in gross exposure. Other Eurozone includes 

exposures to Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, Luxembourg, Slovakia and Slovenia. Other 

Rest of Europe includes exposures to Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Iceland, Poland and 

Russian Federation. 
(8) BMO’s net direct exposure to the other Eurozon
e countries (the other 12 countries that share 
the common euro currency) as at October 31, 2013, totalled approximately $3.4 billion, of 

which 79% was to counterparties in countri
es with a rating of Aaa/AAA by both Moody’s and 
S&P, with approximately 83% rated Aaa/AAA by one of the two rating agencies. Our net direct 

exposure to the rest of Europe totalled approximately $3.9 billion, of which 64% was to 

counterparties in countries with a Moody’s/
S&P rating of Aaa/AAA. A significant majority of 
our sovereign exposure consists of tradeable cash products, while exposure related to banks 

was comprised of trading instruments, short-term debt, derivative positions and letters of 

credit and guarantees. 
(9) Other exposures (including indirect exposures) not included in the tables as at 
October 31, 2013: 
‰ BMO also has exposure to entities in a number of European countries through our credit 

protection vehicle and U.S customer securitization vehicle. These exposures are not included 

in the tables due to the credit protection incorporated in their structures. 

–>BMO has direct exposure to those credit structures, which in turn have exposures to loans 
or securities originated by entities in Europe. As noted on page 66 in the Credit Protection 

Vehicle section, this structure has first-loss protection and hedges are in place. 
–>The notional exposure held in the credit protection vehicle to issuers in Greece, Italy and 
Spain represented 3.9%, of its total notional exposure. The credit protection vehicle had 

notional exposure to five of the other 12 countries that share the euro currency. This 

exposure represented 12% of total notional exposure, of which 87% was rated 

investment grade by both S&P and Moody’s. The notional exposure to the rest of Europe 

was 14% of total notional exposure, with 77% rated investment grade by S&P (68% by 

Moody’s). The vehicle benefits from significant risk loss protection and as a result 

residual credit risk is very low. 
–>BMO has exposure to GIIPS and other European countries through our U.S. customer 
securitization vehicle, which has commitments that involve reliance on collateral of 

which 0.29% represents loans or securities originated by entities in Europe. At year end, 

exposure to Luxembourg was the largest component at 0.10%. Exposure to Spain was 

approximately 0.06%, and there was no exposure to Italy, Ireland, Greece or Portugal. 
‰BMO has exposure to European supranational institutions totalling $0.4 billion, 

predominantly in the form of tradeable cash products. 
‰BMO’s indirect exposure to Europe in the form of euro-denominated collateral to support 

trading activity was 
€413 million in securities issued by entities in European countries, of 
which €3.5 million was held in securities related to GIIPS and 
€288 million was in French 
securities. In addition, 
€323 million of cash collateral was also held at October 31, 2013. 
‰Indirect exposure by way of guarantees from entities in European countries totalled 

$558.6 million, of which $5 million was exposure to GIIPS, $250.8 million to the other 

Eurozone countries and $302.8 million to the rest of Europe. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
67 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Credit Default Swaps by Country and Credit Quality 
(Canadian $ in millions) 
As at October 31, 2013 
Fair value 
Notional Purchased Written Purchased Written Investment Non-Investment Investment Non-Investment Total Investment Non-Investment Investment Non-Investment Total Country grade grade Total grade grade Total exposure grade grade Total grade grade Total exposure GIIPS Greece – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Ireland (5) 1 – 1 (1) 
– (1) 
– (24) 
– (24) 24 – 24 
– Italy 2 – 2 (2) – (2) – (188) – (188) 188 – 188 – Portugal 8 – 8 (8) – (8) – (120) – (120) 120 – 120 – Spain 1 – 1 (1) – (1) – (132) – (132) 132 – 132 – Total – GIIPS 
12 – 12 
(12) 
– (12) 
– (464) 
– (464) 464 – 464 – Eurozone (excluding 
GIIPS) France (2) – (2) 1 – 1 (1) (169) – (169) 140 – 140 (29) Germany (3) – (3) 2 – 2 (1) (358) – (358) 332 – 332 (26) Netherlands – – – – – – – (78) – (78) 59 14 73 (5) Other (7) (1) – (1) 1 – 1 – (130) – (130) 130 – 130 – Total – Eurozone 
(excluding 
GIIPS) (6) – (6) 4 – 4 (2) (735) 
– (735) 661 14 675 (60) Rest of Europe 

Denmark – – – – – – – (2) – (2) 2 – 2 – Norway – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Sweden – – – – – – – (4) – (4) 4 – 4 – Switzerland (3) – (3) 1 – 1 (2) (286) – (286) 61 – 61 (225) United Kingdom 
– – – 2 – 2 2 (273) – (273) 245 14 259 (14) Other (7) – – – (1) – (1) (1) (330) – (330) 322 7 329 (1) Total – Rest of 
Europe (3) – (3) 2 – 2 (1) (895) 
– (895) 634 21 655 (240) Total – All of 
Europe 3 – 3 (6) 
– (6) 
(3) (2,094) 
– (2,094) 
1,759 35 1,794 (300) As at October 31, 2012 
Fair value 
Notional Purchased Written Purchased Written Investment Non-Investment Investment Non-Investment Total Investment Non-Investment Investment Non-Investment Total Country grade grade grade grade exposure grade grade Total grade grade Total exposure Total – GIIPS 
30 – (31) – (1) (517) – (517) 511 5 516 (1) Total – Eurozone 
(excluding GIIPS) 
(1) – 1 – – (1,041) – (1,041) 
998 13 1,011 (30) Total – Rest of Europe 
2 – (1) – 1 (1,273) (25) (1,298) 
1,053 20 1,073 (225) Total – All of Europe 
31 – (31) – – (2,831) (25) (2,856) 
2,562 38 2,600 (256) Refer to footnotes in the table above.> 
– 72% of purchased and 63% of written CDS exposure is subject to modified-modified 
–>All purchased and written exposures are with bank counterparties. 
restructuring trigger events. Under the terms of these contracts, restructuring agreements 
–>28% of purchased and 37% of written CDS exposure is subject to complete restructuring 
count as a credit event; however, the deliverable obligation against the contract is limited to 
trigger events (full restructuring). Under the terms of these contracts, any restructuring 
maturities of up to 60 months for restructured obligations and 30 months for all other 
event qualifies as a credit event and any bond with a maturity of up to 30 years is 
obligations. deliverable against the contract. 
– Table excludes $28 million of iTraxx CDS Index purchased protection. The index is comprised 
equally of 25 constituent names in the following regions: GIIPS (20%), Eurozone (excluding 
GIIPS) (44%) and rest of Europe (36%). 
68 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
        
 U.S. Regulatory Developments 
On July 21, 2010, U.S. President Obama signed into law the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act). 
The Dodd-Frank Act is broad in scope and the reforms include height<
ened consumer protection, regulation of the over-the-counter 

derivatives markets, restrictions on proprietary trading and sponsorship 

of private investment funds by banks (referred to as the 
Volcker Rule), imposition of heightened prudential standards and broader application 

of leverage and risk-based capital requirements. The reforms also 

include greater supervision of systemically significant payment, clearing 

or settlement systems, restrictions on interchange fees, and the creation 

of a new financial stability oversight council of regulators with the 

objective of increasing stability by monitoring systemic risks posed by 

financial services companies and their activities. Many provisions of the 

Dodd-Frank Act continue to be subject to rulemaking and will take effect 

over several years, making it difficult to anticipate at this time the 

overall impact on BMO or the financial services industry as a whole. As 

rulemaking evolves, we are continually monitoring developments to 

ensure we are well-positioned to respond to and implement any 

required changes. We anticipate an increase in regulatory compliance 

costs, and will be focused on managing the complexity and breadth of 

the regulatory changes. 
The Volcker Rule, which prohibits banking entities and their affili<
ates from certain proprietary trading and specified relationships with 

hedge funds and private equity funds, is currently in proposed form. The 

U.S. federal banking agencies, the Securities and Exchange Commission 
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission have confirmed that 

banking entities have two years from July 21, 2012, to conform all of 

their activities and investments, or longer if the period is extended. 

Banking entities are expected to engage in good-faith planning efforts 

and work toward compliance during this period. 
In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, most over-the-counter 
derivatives are now subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime. 

Certain derivatives are now required to be centrally cleared, traded on 

an exchange and are subject to reporting and business conduct 

requirements. Capital and margin requirements relating to derivatives 

are currently being considered by U.S. and international regulators. 
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which enforces U.S. 
federal consumer finance laws, has stated that it will closely scrutinize 

indirect auto lenders to focus on compliance, including with fair 

lending laws. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) has 
issued for comment a proposed rulemaking (the Proposed Rule) that 

would implement the Dodd-Frank Act’s enhanced prudential standards 

and early remediation requirements for the U.S. operations of non-U.S. 

banks, such as BMO. The Proposed Rule would establish new require<

ments relating to risk-based capital, leverage limits, liquidity standards, 

risk-management frameworks, concentration and credit exposure limits, 

resolution planning and credit exposure reporting. 
The U.S. federal banking agencies have issued a proposal that 
would implement in the U.S. the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio (LCR). 

The LCR requires banking organizations to maintain high-quality liquid 

assets in an amount sufficient to withstand a standardized liquidity 

stress scenario. The proposed effective date is January 1, 2015, when a 
two-year phase-in period would commence. The proposal is subject to a 

public comment period that is scheduled to close January 31, 2014. 
BMO is currently assessing and preparing for the impact of these 
proposed rules on its operations. 
As a bank holding company with total consolidated assets of 
US$50 billion or more, our U.S. subsidiary BMO Financial Corp. (BFC) was 

subject to the Capital Plan Review (CapPR) rules and processes in 

fiscal 2013, under which BFC participated in an annual stress testing and 

capital planning exercise conducted by the FRB. BFC was required to 

demonstrate an ability to maintain a Tier 1 Common Ratio
(1) 
of 5% or 
more and meet or exceed minimum required capital ratios, after consid<

ering its planned capital actions under a company-developed adverse 

scenario and a supervisory-prescribed severely adverse scenario. Pur<

suant to these requirements, BFC submitted a two-year capital plan to 

the FRB in January 2013. The FRB informed BFC in March 2013 that it did 

not object to the capital actions contained within BFC’s 2013 capital 

plan. BFC’s wholly owned principal banking subsidiary, BMO Harris Bank 

N.A. (BHB), was subject to similar capital planning requirements by the 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). 
In fiscal 2014, BFC will be subject to the FRB’s annual Compre<
hensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and mid-year Dodd-Frank 

Act (DFAST) stress testing rules and processes, while BHB will be subject 

to the OCC’s DFAST annual and mid-year stress testing requirements. 

CCAR requirements are expected to be more stringent than CapPR, and 

will continue to require BFC to demonstrate an ability to meet the appli<

cable minimum capital requirements, including a Basel I Tier 1 Common 

Ratio of 5% and the transitional U.S. Basel III Capital Ratio requirements 

in effect in 2015, including a 4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio
1. Similar 
to the CapPR process, the capital plan BFC submits in January 2014 will 

be subject to supervisory review, and a decision on whether the 

planned capital actions contained in its 2014 capital plan are approved is 

expected by March 31, 2014; however, unlike the results of the CapPR 

process, the FRB will disclose its own CCAR stress test results for BFC 

under its supervisory adverse and severely adverse scenarios. In addi<

tion, BFC and BHB are also required to disclose the results of their 

testing under the supervisory scenarios in March 2014. Under the DFAST 

rules, BFC and BHB are required to execute mid-year company-run stress 

tests commencing in 2014. BFC and BHB are expected to develop base<

line, adverse and severely adverse scenarios, submit the stress test 

results to the FRB and the OCC in July 2014, and disclose them in 

September 2014. 
In July 2013, U.S. regulators finalized comprehensive changes to 
U.S. capital requirements by adopting the Basel III risk-based capital 
standards. The U.S. Basel III rules will be effective for BFC and BHB on 

January 1, 2015. BFC and BHB will be subject to the rules on U.S. Basel III 

capital and the standardized approach to risk-weighting assets, and 

have initiated activities to implement these rules. BFC and BHB are well-

capitalized – they expect that their 2014 capital plan will meet the CCAR 

and DFAST requirements and are well-positioned to transition to the 

new U.S. Basel III capital requirements by January 2015. 
(1) Tier 1 Common Ratio is defined as the ratio of Tier 1 Common Capital to total risk-weighted 
assets under U.S. Basel I rules, while the Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio is the equivalent ratio 

under U.S. Basel III rules. 
Caution 
This U.S. Regulatory Developments section contains forward-looking statements. 

Please see the Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
69 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements; ;
MD&A BMO enters into a number of off-balance sheet arrangements in the 
normal course of operations. 
Credit Instruments 
In order to meet the financial needs of our clients, we use a variety of off-

balance sheet credit instruments. These include guarantees and standby 

letters of credit, which represent our obligation to make payments to 

third parties on behalf of a customer if the customer is unable to make 

the required payments or meet other contractual requirements. We also 

write documentary and commercial letters of credit, which represent our 

agreement to honour drafts presented by a third party upon completion 

of specified activities. Commitments to extend credit are off-balance 

sheet arrangements that represent our commitment to customers to 

grant them credit in the form of loans or other financings for specific 

amounts and maturities, subject to meeting certain conditions. 
There are a large number of credit instruments outstanding at any 
time. Our customers are broadly diversified and we do not anticipate 

events or conditions that would cause a significant number of our 

customers to fail to perform in accordance with the terms of the con<

tracts. We use our credit adjudication process in deciding whether to 

enter into these arrangements, just as we do when extending credit in 

the form of a loan. We monitor off-balance sheet instruments to avoid 

undue concentrations in any geographic region or industry. 
The maximum amount payable by BMO in relation to these credit 
instruments was approximately $90 billion at October 31, 2013 

($74 billion in 2012). However, this amount is not representative of our 

likely credit exposure or liquidity requirements for these instruments, as 

it does not take into account customer behaviour, which suggests that 

only a portion will utilize the facilities related to these instruments. It 

also does not take into account any amounts that could be recovered 

under recourse and collateralization provisions. Further information on 

these instruments can be found in Note 5 on page 141 of the 

financial statements. 
Critical Accounting Estimates; ;
For the credit commitments outlined in the preceding paragraphs, 
in the absence of an event that triggers a default, early termination by 

BMO may result in a breach of contract. 
Special Purpose Entities (SPEs) 
Our interests in SPEs are discussed primarily on page 66 in the BMO-

Sponsored Securitization Vehicles and Structured Investment Vehicle 

sections and in Note 9 on page 145 of the financial statements. Under 

IFRS, we consolidate all of our SPEs and capital and funding trusts, 

except for certain Canadian customer securitization and structured 

finance vehicles. 
Guarantees Guarantees include contracts under which we may be required to make 

payments to a counterparty based on changes in the value of an asset, 

liability or equity security that the counterparty holds. Contracts under 

which we may be required to make payments if a third party does not 

perform according to the terms of a contract and contracts under which 

we provide indirect guarantees of indebtedness are also considered 

guarantees. In the normal course of business, we enter into a variety of 

guarantees, including standby letters of credit, backstop and other 

liquidity facilities and derivatives contracts or instruments (including, but 

not limited to, credit default swaps, as well as indemnification 

agreements). 
The maximum amount payable by BMO in relation to these guaran<
tees was $31 billion at October 31, 2013 ($40 billion in 2012). However, 

this amount is not representative of our likely exposure, as it does not 

take into account customer behaviour, which suggests that only a por<

tion of the guarantees will require payment. It also does not take into 

account any amounts that could be recovered through recourse and 

collateral provisions. 
For a more detailed discussion of these agreements, please see 
Note 7 on page 144 of the financial statements. 
The most significant assets and liabilities for which we must make 

estimates include: allowance for credit losses; purchased loans; acquired 

deposits; financial instruments measured at fair value; consolidation of 

special purpose entities (SPEs); pension and other employee future 

benefits; impairment of securities; income taxes; goodwill and 

intangible assets; insurance-related liabilities; and contingent liabilities. 

We make judgments in assessing whether substantially all risks and 

rewards have been transferred in respect of transfers of financial assets 

and whether we control SPEs. These judgments are discussed in Notes 8 

and 9, respectively, on page 145 of the financial statements. Note 29 on 

page 178 of the financial statements discusses the judgments made in 

determining the fair value of financial instruments. If actual results differ 

from the estimates, the impact would be recorded in future periods. We 

have established detailed policies and control procedures that are 

intended to ensure the judgments we make in determining the esti<

mates are well controlled, independently reviewed and consistently 

applied from period to period. We believe that our estimates of the 

value of BMO’s assets and liabilities are appropriate. 
For a more detailed discussion of the use of estimates, please see 
Note 1 on page 130 of the financial statements. 
Allowance for Credit Losses 
One of our key performance measures is the provision for credit losses 

as a percentage of average net loans and acceptances. Over the past 

10 years, for our Canadian peer group, the average annual ratio has 

ranged from a high of 0.90% in 2009 to a low of 0.10% in 2004. 
This ratio varies with changes in the economy and credit conditions. 
If we were to apply these high and low ratios to average net loans and 

acceptances in 2013, our provision for credit losses would range from 

$2,395 million to $266 million. Our provision for credit losses in 2013 

was $589 million. 
Additional information on the process and methodology for 
determining the allowance for credit losses can be found in the dis<

cussion of Credit and Counterparty Risk on page 82 as well as in Note 4 

on page 137 of the financial statements. 
Purchased Loans 
Significant judgment and assumptions were applied to determine the 

fair value of the Marshall & Ilsley Corporation (M&I) loan portfolio. Loans 

were identified as either purchased performing loans or purchased credit 

impaired loans (PCI loans), both of which were recorded at fair value at 

the time of acquisition. The determination of fair value involved 

estimating the expected cash flows to be received and determining the 
70 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
discount rate to be applied to the cash flows from the loan portfolio. In 
determining the possible discount rates, we considered various factors, 

including our cost to raise funds in the current market, the risk premium 

associated with the loans and the cost to service the portfolios. PCI loans 

are those where the timely collection of principal and interest was no 

longer reasonably assured as at the date of acquisition. We regularly 

evaluate what we expect to collect on PCI loans. Changes in expected 

cash flows could result in the recognition of impairment or a recovery 

through the provision for credit losses. Assessing the timing and amount 

of cash flows requires significant management judgment regarding key 

assumptions, including the probability of default, severity of loss, timing 

of payment receipts and valuation of collateral. All of these factors are 

inherently subjective and can result in significant changes in the cash 

flow estimates over the term of a loan. 
The purchased performing loans are subject to the credit review 
processes applied to loans we originate. 
Acquired Deposits 
M&I deposit liabilities were recorded at fair value at the date of acquis<

ition. The determination of fair value involved estimating the expected 

cash flows to be paid and determining the discount rate to be applied to 

the cash flows. Estimating the timing and amount of cash flows requires 

significant management judgment regarding the likelihood of early 

redemption by us and the timing of withdrawal by the client. Discount 

rates were based on the prevailing rates we were paying on similar 

deposits at the date of acquisition. 
Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value 
BMO records certain securities and derivatives at their fair value, and 

certain liabilities are designated at fair value. Fair value represents our 

estimate of the amount we would receive, or would have to pay in the 

case of a liability, in a current transaction between willing parties. We 

employ a fair value hierarchy to categorize the inputs we use in valu<

ation techniques to measure fair value. The extent of our use of quoted 

market prices (Level 1), internal models using observable market 

information (Level 2) and internal models without observable market 

information (Level 3) in the valuation of securities, derivative assets and 

derivative liabilities as at October 31, 2013, as well as a sensitivity 

analysis of our Level 3 financial instruments, is disclosed in Note 29 on 

page 178 of the financial statements. 
Valuation models use general assumptions and market data, and 
therefore do not reflect the specific risks and other factors that would 

affect a particular instrument’s fair value. As a result, we incorporate 

certain adjustments when using internal models to establish fair values. 

These fair value adjustments take into account the estimated impact of 

credit risk, liquidity risk, administrative costs and other items including 

closeout costs. For example, the credit risk adjustment for derivative 

financial instruments incorporates credit risk into our determination of 

fair values by taking into account factors such as the counterparty’s credit 

rating, the duration of the instrument and changes in credit spreads. 
Valuation Product Control (VPC), a group independent of the trading 
lines of business, verifies the fair values at which financial instruments 

are recorded. For instruments that are valued using models, VPC identi<

fies situations where valuation adjustments must be made to the model 

estimates to arrive at fair value. 
The methodologies used for calculating these adjustments are 
reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure that they remain appropriate. 

Significant changes in methodologies are made only when we believe 

that the change will result in better estimates of fair value. 
Valuation Adjustments 
($ millions) 
As at October 31 
2013 2012 Credit risk 
49 110 Liquidity risk 
48 28 Administrative costs 
11 11 Other 3 3 111 152 Valuation adjustments made to model estimates to arrive at fair value 

were lower in 2013 than in 2012. The decrease in the adjustment for 

credit risk was primarily due to significantly higher swap rates in Canada 

and the United States, coupled with narrower relative credit spreads 

between our counterparties and BMO. The increase in liquidity risk was 

due to larger independent valuation adjustments from VPC. 
Consolidation of Special Purpose Entities 
In the normal course of business, BMO enters into arrangements with 

SPEs. We are required to consolidate SPEs if we determine that we 

control the SPEs. 
We control the vehicle and therefore we consolidate its results 
when the activities of the SPE are being conducted on our behalf and we 

receive the benefits, when we have the decision-making power or we 

retain the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets. 
Additional information concerning BMO’s involvement with SPEs is 
included on page 66 as well as in Note 9 on page 145 of the financial 

statements. Pension and Other Employee Future Benefits 
Our pension and other employee future benefits expense is calculated 

by our independent actuaries using assumptions determined by 

management. If actual experience differs from the assumptions used, 

pension and other employee future benefits expense could increase or 

decrease in future years. The expected rate of return on plan assets is a 

management estimate that significantly affects the calculation of pen<

sion expense. Our expected rate of return on plan assets is determined 

using the plan’s target asset allocation and estimated rates of return for 

each asset class. Estimated rates of return are based on expected 

returns from fixed-income securities, which take into consideration bond 

yields. An equity risk premium is then applied to estimate equity 

returns. Expected returns from other asset classes are established to 

reflect the risks of these asset classes relative to fixed-income and 

equity assets. The impact of changes in expected rates of return on plan 

assets is not significant for our other employee future benefits expense 

since only small amounts of assets are held in these plans. 
Pension and other employee future benefits expense and obliga<
tions are also sensitive to changes in discount rates. We determine 

discount rates at each year end for our Canadian and U.S. plans using 

high-quality corporate bonds with terms matching the plans’ specific 

cash flows. 
Additional information regarding our accounting for pension and 
other employee future benefits, including a sensitivity analysis for 

key assumptions, is included in Note 23 on page 167 of the 

financial statements. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
71 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
MD&A Impairment of Securities 
We have investments in securities issued or guaranteed by Canadian, 
U.S. and other governments, corporate debt and equity securities, 
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, 

which are classified as either available-for-sale securities, held-to<

maturity or other securities. We review held-to-maturity, available-for<

sale and other securities at each quarter-end reporting period to identify 

and evaluate investments that show indications of possible impairment. 

An investment is considered impaired if there is objective evidence that 

the estimated future cash flows will be reduced and the impact can be 

reliably measured. We consider evidence such as delinquency or default, 

bankruptcy, restructuring or the absence of an active market. The deci<

sion to record a write-down, its amount and the period in which it is 

recorded could change if management’s assessment of those factors 

were different. We do not record impairment write-downs on debt 

securities when impairment is due to changes in market rates, if future 

contractual cash flows associated with the debt security are still 

expected to be recovered. 
At the end of 2013, there were total unrealized losses of 
$96 million on securities for which cost exceeded fair value and an 

impairment write-down had not been recorded. Of this amount, 

$5 million related to securities for which cost had exceeded fair value 

for 12 months or more. These unrealized losses resulted from increases 

in market interest rates and not from deterioration in the creditworthi<

ness of the issuer. 
Additional information regarding our accounting for available-for<
sale securities, held-to-maturity securities and other securities and the 

determination of fair value is included in Note 3 on page 134 of the 

financial statements. 
Income Taxes 
The provision for income taxes is calculated based on the expected tax 

treatment of transactions recorded in our Consolidated Statements of 

Income or Changes in Equity. In determining the provision for income 

taxes, we interpret tax legislation in a variety of jurisdictions and make 

assumptions about the expected timing of the reversal of deferred tax 

assets and liabilities. If our interpretations differ from those of tax author<

ities or if the timing of reversals is not as expected, our provision for 

income taxes could increase or decrease in future periods. The amount of 

any such increase or decrease cannot be reasonably estimated. 
Public discussions concerning U.S. legislation suggest that it is 
possible that corporate income tax rates may be reduced during BMO’s 

fiscal year ending October 31, 2014. If corporate tax rates were to be 

reduced, this would result in a reduction of the deferred tax asset and a 

charge to the provision for income taxes. A 1% reduction in the U.S. 

federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 34% would result in a decrease 

in our deferred tax asset of approximately $60 million and a 

corresponding reduction in net income. As deferred tax assets are 

deducted from BMO’s CET1 ratio or capitalized as a risk-weighted asset, 

any such decrease in deferred tax assets will wholly or partly offset the 

deterioration in our CET1 ratio which would otherwise result from such 

reduced net income. Any reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate 

would be expected to increase net income from our U.S. operations in 

future periods. 
Additional information regarding our accounting for income taxes is 
included in Note 24 on page 171 of the financial statements. 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. This assessment 

includes a comparison of the carrying value and the recoverable amount 
of each business unit to verify that the recoverable amount of the 

business unit is greater than its carrying value. If the carrying value 

were to exceed the recoverable amount of the business unit, a more 

detailed goodwill impairment assessment would have to be undertaken. 

The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less 

costs to sell and its value in use. 
Fair value less costs to sell was used to perform the impairment 
test in 2013 and 2012. In determining fair value less costs to sell, we 

employ a discounted cash flow model, consistent with that used when 

we acquire businesses. This model is dependent on assumptions related 

to revenue growth, discount rates, synergies achieved on acquisition 

and the availability of comparable acquisition data. Changes in each of 

these assumptions would affect the determination of fair value for each 

of the business units in a different manner. Management must exercise 

judgment and make assumptions in determining fair value, and differ<

ences in judgments and assumptions could affect the determination of 

fair value and any resulting impairment write-down. At October 31, 

2013, the estimated fair value of each of our business units was greater 

than its carrying value. 
Intangible assets are amortized to income on either a straight-line 
or an accelerated basis over a period not exceeding 15 years, depending 

on the nature of the asset. There are no intangible assets with indefinite 

lives. We test intangible assets for impairment when circumstances 

indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. No such impairment 

was identified for the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012. 

Additional information regarding the composition of goodwill and 

intangible assets is included in Note 13 on page 156 of the financial 

statements. Insurance-Related Liabilities 
Insurance claims and policy benefit liabilities represent current claims 

and estimates for future insurance policy benefits. Liabilities for life 

insurance contracts are determined using the Canadian Asset Liability 

Method, which incorporates best-estimate assumptions for mortality, 

morbidity, policy lapses, surrenders, future investment yields, policy 

dividends, administration costs and margins for adverse deviation. These 

assumptions are reviewed at least annually and updated to reflect actual 

experience and market conditions. The most significant impact on the 

valuation of a liability results from a change in the assumption for future 

investment yields. Future investment yields may be sensitive to varia<

tions in reinvestment interest rates and accordingly may affect the 

valuation of policy benefit liabilities. If the assumed yield were to 

increase by one percentage point, net income would increase by 

approximately $81 million. A reduction of one percentage point would 

lower net income by approximately $66 million. 
Contingent Liabilities 
BMO and its subsidiaries are involved in various legal actions in the 

ordinary course of business. 
Provisions are recorded at the best estimate of the amount required 
to settle the obligation related to these legal actions as at the balance 

sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding 

the obligation. Management and internal and external experts are 

involved in estimating any amounts required. The actual costs of 

resolving these claims may be substantially higher or lower than the 

amount of the provisions. 
Additional information regarding provisions is provided in Note 28 
on page 177 of the financial statements. 
Caution 
This Critical Accounting Estimates section contains forward-looking statements. 

Please see the Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
72 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Changes in Accounting Policies in 2013 
There were no changes in accounting policies in 2013. 
Future Changes in Accounting Policies 
BMO monitors the potential changes to IFRS proposed by the Interna-
reporting and accounting policies. New standards and amendments to 
tional Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and analyzes the effect that 
existing standards that will be effective for BMO in the future are 
any such changes to the standards may have on BMO’s financial 
described in Note 1 on page 130 of the financial statements. 
Transactions with Related Parties 
In the ordinary course of business, we provide banking services to our 
key management personnel and their affiliated entities, joint ventures 

and equity-accounted investees on the same terms that we offer to our 

customers for those services. Key management personnel are defined as 

those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing 

and/or controlling the activities of an entity, being the directors and 

most senior executives of the bank. 
Details of our investments in joint ventures and associates and the 
compensation of key management personnel are disclosed in Note 27 

on page 177 of the financial statements. A select suite of customer loan 

and mortgage products is offered to our employees at rates normally 

made available to our preferred customers. We also offer employees a 

subsidy on annual credit card fees. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
73     
      
    
 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Management’s Annual Report on Disclosure Controls and Procedures and
Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
MD&A Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable 
assurance that all relevant information is gathered and reported to 

senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the 

Chief Financial Officer (CFO), on a timely basis so that appropriate deci<

sions can be made regarding public disclosure. 
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of 
our disclosure controls and procedures was conducted as at 

October 31, 2013, by Bank of Montreal’s management under the super<

vision of the CEO and the CFO. Based on this evaluation, the CEO and the 

CFO have concluded that, as at October 31, 2013, our disclosure controls 

and procedures, as defined in Canada by National Instrument 52-109, 

Certification of Disclosure in Issuers’ Annual and Interim Filings, and in 

the United States by Rule 13a-15(e) under the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), are effective. 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reason<

able assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 

preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and the 

requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the 

United States, as applicable. Management is responsible for establishing 

and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for 

Bank of Montreal. 
Bank of Montreal’s internal control over financial reporting 
includes policies and procedures designed to provide reasonable assur<

ance that: records are maintained in reasonable detail to accurately and 

fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Bank of 

Montreal; transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 

of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS and the require<

ments of the SEC in the United States, as applicable; receipts and 

expenditures of Bank of Montreal are being made only in accordance 

with authorizations by management and directors of Bank of Montreal; 
and unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of Bank of Montreal’s 

assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements are 

prevented or detected in a timely manner. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial 
reporting can provide only reasonable assurance and may not prevent 

or detect misstatements. Furthermore, projections of any evaluation of 

effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may 

become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the 

degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
Bank of Montreal’s management, under the supervision of the CEO 
and the CFO, has evaluated the effectiveness of internal control 

over financial reporting using the framework and criteria established in 

Internal Control – Integrated Framework (1992), issued by the 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 

Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that internal 

control over financial reporting was effective as at October 31, 2013. 
The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission recently released its updated 
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013 Framework). Bank of Montreal’s management must 
apply the 2013 Framework to evaluate the effectiveness of the internal 

control over financial reporting in fiscal 2015. Management will evaluate 

the transition to the 2013 Framework in fiscal 2014. 
Bank of Montreal’s auditors, KPMG LLP (Shareholders’ Auditors), an 
independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit 

report on our internal control over financial reporting. This audit report 

appears on page 123. 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting in 

fiscal 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to 

materially affect, the adequacy and effectiveness of our internal control 

over financial reporting. 
Shareholders’ Auditors’ Services and Fees; ;
Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures 
As part of BMO Financial Group’s corporate governance practices, the 

Board of Directors oversees the strict application of BMO’s corporate 

policy limiting the services provided by the Shareholders’ Auditors that 

are not related to their role as auditors. All services provided by the 

Shareholders’ Auditors are pre-approved by the Audit and Conduct 

Review Committee as they arise, or through an annual pre-approval of 

amounts for specific types of services. All services comply with our 

Auditor Independence Policy, as well as professional standards and 

securities regulations governing auditor independence. 
Shareholders’ Auditors’ Fees 
Aggregate fees paid to the Shareholders’ Auditors during the fiscal years 

ended October 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows: 
Fees ($ millions) (1) 
2013 2012 Audit fees 14.9 15.8 Audit-related fees 
(2) 1.5 1.7 Tax fees 
– – All other fees 
(3) 1.0 1.2 Total 17.4 18.7 (1) The classification of fees is based on applicable Canadian securities laws and U.S. Securities 

and Exchange Commission definitions. 
(2) Audit-related fees for 2013 and 2012 relate to fees paid for accounting advice, specified 

procedures on our Proxy Circular and other specified procedures. 
(3) All other fees for 2013 and 2012 relate primarily to fees paid for reviews of compliance with 

regulatory requirements for financial information and reports on internal controls over 

services provided by various BMO Financial Group businesses. They also include costs of 

translation services. 
74 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
1 2 3 4 6 7 Enhanced Disclosure Task Force 
On October 29, 2012, the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) of the Fi
nancial Stability Board published its first report, Enhancing the 
Risk Disclosures of Banks. We support the recommendations issued by ED
TF for the provision of high-quality, transparent risk disclosures. 
Our 2012 Annual Report included certain of these disclosures requi
red by the EDTF. We have enhanced our disclosures in the 2013 Annual 

Report and Q4 2013 Supplementary Financial Information in light of these recommendations, and we expect to make further enhance/

ments to our disclosures in the future.: :
Disclosures related to EDTF recommendations are detailed below.: :
General Present all risk-related information in the Annual Report, 
Supplementary Financial Information and Supplementary 

Regulatory Capital Disclosure, and provide an index for 

easy navigation. 
Annual Report: 
Risk-related information is presented in the Enterprise-
Wide Risk Management section on pages 77 to 99. 
An index for the MD&A is provided on page 26. An index for the notes 
to the financial statements is provided on page 130. 
Supplementary Financial Information: 
An index is provided in 
Supplementary Financial Information. 
Define the bank’s risk terminology and risk measures and 
present key parameters used. 
Annual Report: 
Specific risk definitions and key parameters 
underpinning BMO’s risk reporting are provided on pages 82 to 99. 
A glossary of financial terms (including risk terminology) can be found 
on pages 190 to 191. 
Discusstopandemergingrisks forthe bank. 
Annual Report: 
BMO’s top and emerging risks are discussed on 
pages 78 to 79. 
Outline plans to meet new key regulatory ratios once the 
applicable rules are finalized. 
Annual Report: 
We outline BMO’s plans to meet new regulatory ratios 
on pages 63 (Leverage Ratio) and 94 (Net Stable Funding Ratio and 
Liquidity Coverage Ratio). 
Risk Governance Summarize the bank’s risk management organization, 
5 processes, and key functions. 
Annual Report: 
BMO’s risk management organization, processes and 
key functions are summarized on pages 79 to 82. 
Describe the bank’s risk culture. 
Annual Report: 
BMO’s risk culture is described on pages 80 to 81. 
Describe key risks that arise from the bank’s business 
model and activities. 
Annual Report: 
A diagram of BMO’s risk exposure by operating 
segment is provided on page 64. 
Describe the use of stress testing within the bank’s risk 

governance and capital frameworks. 
Annual Report: 
BMO’s stress testing process is described on page 82. 
Capital Adequacy and Risk-Weighted Assets (RWA) 
9 Provide minimum Pillar 1 capital requirements. 
Annual Report: 
Basel III Pillar 1 capital requirements are described on 
page 62. 
Supplementary Financial Information: 
Basel III regulatory capital is 
disclosed on page 35. 
10 Summarize information contained in the composition of 
capital templates adopted by the Basel Committee. 
Annual Report: 
An abridged version of the Basel III Regulatory Capital 
template is provided on page 63. 
Supplementary Financial Information: 
Basel III Pillar 3 disclosure is 
provided on pages 35 to 37. A Main Features template can be found on 
BMO’s website at www.bmo.com under Investor Relations and 

Regulatory Filings. 
11 Present a flow statement of movements in regulatory 
capital, including changes in Common Equity Tier 1, 

Additional Tier 1, and Tier 2 capital. 
Supplementary Financial Information: 
Regulatory capital flow 
statement is provided on page 39. 
12 Discuss capital planning within a more general discussion 

of management’s strategic planning. 
Annual Report: 
BMO’s capital planning process is discussed under 
Capital Management Framework on page 61. 
13 Provide granular information to explain how RWA relate 

to business activities. 
Annual Report: 
A diagram of BMO’s risk exposure, including RWA by 
operating segment, is provided on page 64. 
14 Present a table showing the capital requirements for each 

method used for calculating RWA. 
Annual Report: 
Regulatory capital requirement, as a percentage of 
RWA, is outlined on page 62. 
Information about significant models used to determine RWA is 
provided on pages 97 to 98. 
Supplementary Financial Information: 
A table showing RWA by 
model approaches and by risk type is provided on page 37. 
15 Tabulate credit risk in the banking book for Basel 
asset classes. 
Supplementary Financial Information: 
Wholesale and retail credit 
exposures by internal rating grades are provided on page 46. 
16 Present a flow statement that reconciles movements in 

RWA by credit risk and market risk. 
Supplementary Financial Information: 
RWA flow statements are 
provided on page 40. 
17 Describe the bank’s Basel validation and back-testing 

process. Annual Report: 
BMO’s Basel validation and back-testing process is 
described on pages 97 to 98 for credit risk and page 89 for market risk. 
Supplementary Financial Information: 
A table showing Exposure at 
Default and RWA by model approaches and asset class is provided on 
page 37. A table showing estimated and actual loss parameters is 

provided on page 48. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
75 MD&A 8 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Liquidity Credit Risk 
MD&A Describe how the bank manages its potential liquidity 
18 needs and the liquidity reserve held to meet those needs. 
Annual Report: 
BMO’s potential liquidity needs and the liquidity 
reserve held to meet those needs are described on pages 93 to 94. 
The composition of BMO’s liquidity reserve is reflected in the 
unencumbered liquid asset positions in the Asset Encumbrance table on 

page 107. 
Funding 19 Summarize encumbered and unencumbered assets in a 
table by balance sheet category. Annual Report: 
An Asset Encumbrance table is provided on page 107. 
Additional collateral requirement in the event of downgrades by rating 
agencies is disclosed in Note 10 on page 150 of the financial 

statements. Supplementary Financial Information: 
The Asset Encumbrance table 
by currency is provided on page 34. 
20 Tabulate consolidated total assets, liabilities and 
off-balance sheet commitments by remaining contractual 

maturity. Annual Report: 
A Contractual Maturity table is presented in Note 30 on 
pages 185 to 188 of the financial statements. 
21 Discuss the bank’s sources of funding and describe the 

bank’s funding strategy. 
Annual Report: 
BMO’s sources of funding and funding strategy are 
described on pages 92 to 93. 
A table showing the composition and maturity of wholesale funding is 
provided on page 93. 
Market Risk 
Provide a breakdown of balance sheet positions into 
22 trading and non-trading market risk measures. 
Annual Report: 
A table linking balance sheet items to market risk 
measures is provided on page 88. 
Provide qualitative and quantitative breakdowns of 
23 significant trading and non-trading market risk factors. 
Annual Report: 
Trading market risk exposures are described and 
quantified on pages 87 to 90. 
Structural market risk exposures are described and quantified on 
page 91. 
Describe significant market risk measurement model 
24 validation procedures and back-testing and how these are 
used to enhance the parameters of the model. 
Annual Report: 
Market risk measurement model validation procedures 
and back-testing are described on page 89 for trading market risk, and 
page 91 for structural market risk. 
Describe the primary risk management techniques 
25 employed by the bank to measure and assess the risk of 
loss beyond reported risk measures. 
Annual Report: 
The use of stress testing, scenario analysis and 
stressed VaR for market risk management is described on 
pages 87 to 91. 
Provide information about the bank’s credit risk profile. 
26 Annual Report: 
Information about BMO’s credit risk profile is provided 
on pages 84 to 85 and in Notes 4 and 6 on pages 137 to 141 and 

142 to 144 of the financial statements, respectively. 
Describe the bank’s policies related to impaired loans and 
27 renegotiated loans. 
Annual Report: 
Impaired and renegotiated loan policies are described 
in Note 4 on pages 138 and 140 of the financial statements. 
Provide reconciliations of impaired loans and the 
28 allowance for credit losses. 
Annual Report: 
Continuity schedules for gross impaired loans and 
allowance for credit losses are provided on page 85. 
Provide a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the 
29 bank’s counterparty credit risk that arises from its 
derivative transactions. 
Annual Report: 
Qualitative and quantitative disclosures on 
collateralization agreements for over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives are 
provided on page 86. 
Provide a discussion of credit risk mitigation. 
30 Annual Report: 
A discussion of BMO’s collateral management is 
provided on page 84. 
Other Risks 
Describe other risks and discuss how each is identified, 
31 governed, measured and managed. 
Annual Report: 
A diagram illustrating the risk governance process that 
supports BMO’s risk culture is provided on page 79. 
Other risks are discussed on pages 94 to 99. 
Discuss publicly known risk events related to other 
32 risks, where material or potentially material loss events 
have occurred. Annual Report: 
Other risks are discussed on pages 94 to 99. 
76 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
       
    Enterprise-Wide Risk Management; ;
Surjit Rajpal 
Chief Risk Officer 
BMO Financial Group 
As a diversified financial services company active in banking, investment, insurance and 
wealth management services, we are exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent in carrying 

out our business activities. As such, having a disciplined and integrated approach to managing 

risk is fundamental to the success of our operations. Our risk management framework seeks to 

provide appropriate and independent risk oversight across the enterprise and is essential to 

building competitive advantage and stability. 
Strengths and Value Drivers> >
Priorities ‰ Comprehensive and consistent risk frameworks that encompass all 
‰ Continue to invest in key risk areas of stress testing and market risk. 
risks within the enterprise. 
‰ Streamline and simplify risk processes to drive greater effectiveness 
‰ Risk appetite statement and metrics that shape business strategies and efficiency. 
across the organization. 
‰ Sustained cultural mindset of continuous improvement that drives 
2013 Accomplishments 
greater consistency and efficiency in managing risk. 
‰Significantly reduced the level of our impaired assets by 15% year 

over year. 
Challenges ‰ Augmented our stress testing capabilities and integrated them into 
‰ Heightened pace, volume and complexity of regulatory requirements 
our strategic and business planning processes. 
and expectations. ‰ Enhanced our operational risk capabilities in line with the Basel II 
‰Prolonged low growth economic environment, coupled with low 
Advanced Measurement Approach expectations. 
interest rates and marketplace uncertainty, requires greater vigilance 
‰ Continued to build out our Risk-IT infrastructure in line with regu<
in balancing risk and return. 
latory expectations for improved risk data aggregation and 

reporting capabilities. 
Gross Impaired Loan Formations Gross Impaired 
Loan Balances* ($ millions) Provision for 
Credit Losses ($ millions) Total Allowance for 
Credit Losses* ($ millions) M&I purchased performing loan portfolio Total bank (excluding M&I purchased performing loans) M&I purchased performing loan portfolio Total bank (excluding M&I purchased performing loans) 581 1,297 514 1,269 447 1,259 444 1,221 2,581 2,098 
2,894 2,685 2,976 1,762 2,544 1,888 1,680 2,330 1,992 3,101 1,563 2,449 Level of new impaired formations 
was 21% lower year over year, 
reflecting decreases in both our 
consumer and commercial 
portfolios. ($ millions) 2010 2011 
20132012 2010 The total provision for credit losses 
was lower year over year, reflect<
ing lower provisions across our 

consumer and commercial loan port<

folios and all our operating groups. 2010 2011 
The total allowance for credit 
losses was stable year over 
year and remains adequate. *Excludes allowances related to Other Credit Instruments.*Excludes purchased credit impaired loans. 2010 2011 
201320122011 20132012 Specific allowances Collective allowanceCollective provision Specific provisions Adjusted specific provisions 20132012 Gross impaired loans were 15% lower year over year, reflecting 
lower levels in both Canada and 
the United States. 1,049 1,126 86 1,108 762 3 599 (10) 471 359 Adjusted results in this Enterprise-Wide Risk Management section are 
non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
Text and tables presented in a blue-tinted font in the Enterprise-Wide Risk Management section of the MD&A form an integral part of the 2013 annual cons
olidated finan<
cial statements. They present required disclosures as set out by the International Accounting Standards Board in IFRS 7, Financial Instruments – Disclosures, which permits 
cross-referencing between the notes to the financial statements and the MD&A. See Note 1 on page 130 and Note 6 on page 142 of the financial statements. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
77   
 
 
 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Overview At BMO, we believe that risk management is every employee’s responsi<
bility. We are guided by five core principles that drive our entire 

approach to managing risk. 
Approach to Risk Management 
‰ Understand and manage. 
‰ Protect our reputation. 
‰ Diversify. Limit tail risk. 
‰ Maintain strong capital and liquidity. 
‰ Optimize risk return. 
Our integrated and disciplined approach to risk management is funda<

mental to the success of our business. All elements of our risk 

management framework work together in facilitating prudent and 

measured risk-taking, while striking an appropriate balance between 

risk and return. Our Enterprise Risk and Portfolio Management (ERPM) 

group develops our risk appetite, risk policies and limits, and provides 

independent review and oversight across the enterprise on risk-related 

issues to achieve prudent and measured risk-taking that aligns with our 

business strategy. 
Top and Emerging Risks 
We are exposed to a variety of continually changing risks that have the 

potential to impact our business and financial condition. Therefore, an 

integral component of our risk management process is to proactively 

identify, assess, monitor and manage a broad spectrum of top and 

emerging risks. Our top and emerging risk identification process consists 

of a regular forum of discussion with senior risk leaders and from time 

to time with subject matter guest speakers, which is then followed by 

discussion with BMO’s Risk Management Committee (RMC) and the Risk 

Review Committee of the Board of Directors (RRC). Our assessment of 

top and emerging risks then informs the monitoring, action plans and 

stress tests performed within BMO. This allows us to focus on current 

risks and also maintain a forward-looking view of potential risks. 
In 2013, particular attention was given to the following top and 
emerging risks: 
Challenges Linked to the Slow-Growth Economy 
The prolonged slow-growth economic environment, combined with low 

interest rates and intense competition, including the continued growth 

of the shadow banking sector, creates obstacles to the achievement of 

our strategic objectives. Quantitative easing has suppressed interest 

rates and raised liquidity, leading to large flows of money into debt 

instruments, resulting in greater leverage, covenant-light structures and 

lower yields. This places pressure on our ability to generate an adequate 

return on equity while still operating within the parameters of our 

risk appetite. 
We are actively focused on managing and mitigating this risk so 
that we are able to strike the appropriate balance between risk-taking 

and rewards in this slow-growth economic environment. The parame<

ters of our enterprise-wide Risk Appetite Statement have been clearly 

articulated across our lines of business and are monitored on an ongoing 

basis. We continue to maintain prudent risk management practices, 

including close monitoring of all portfolios and underwriting commit<

ments and we apply stringent approval processes for new products 

and services. Further details can be found in our Risk Appetite and Risk Review 
and Approval sections on page 81. 
Heightened Regulatory Requirements 
Regulatory requirements have been increasing in intensity and may 

materially shift the prevailing business paradigm. Significant changes in 

laws and regulations relating to the financial services industry have 

been enacted. These regulatory reforms can impact our operations when 

they pose financial costs and strategic challenges and increase reputa<

tional risk. Financial costs result from increasing capital and liquidity 

requirements and through the cost of compliance in terms of infra<

structure. Strategic challenges can arise in cases where non<

compliance can hinder our ability to pursue strategic initiatives or 

prevent our involvement in certain business activities. 
To minimize any potential business or financial impact of this risk, 
we continually stay abreast of evolving regulatory changes and monitor 

regulatory requirements to ensure that resources are prioritized 

appropriately and our views are expressed to regulators. We perform an 

impact analysis of capital and liquidity requirements on our business. 

Additionally, we are in the process of enhancing our compliance frame<

work to better prepare our organization to handle ongoing and future 

compliance requirements. 
Regulations and developments specific to the United States are 
discussed in the U.S. Regulatory Developments section on page 69. 
Canadian Household Debt 
High levels of household debt have left Canadians vulnerable to neg<

ative financial shocks, which can emanate from inside and outside the 

country. Changes to mortgage practices are slowing activity in the 

mortgage market and borrowers are increasingly opting for fixed-rate 

contracts. We closely monitor and review this portfolio, applying prudent and 
consistent credit underwriting practices. We have also performed stress 

tests under various scenarios ranging from moderate to extreme. In an 

extreme scenario, with high unemployment rates, a significant decline 

in housing prices and a rapid increase in interest rates, BMO would have 

the ability to absorb and manage the related losses. 
Further details of our Canadian residential mortgage portfolio can 
be found in the Real Estate Secured Lending section on page 84. 
Eurozone Challenges 
Despite the length of time that the Eurozone has been in the spotlight 

and the numerous interventions by various authorities to attempt to 

resolve the debt crisis and economic stagnation, there continues to be a 

potential risk of economic instability that could spread from peripheral 

to core Eurozone countries in the near future. 
We are closely monitoring the geopolitical situation in Europe, 
including regular review of our direct and indirect European exposures. 

Our risk management processes incorporate stress tests to assess our 

potential risk, where appropriate. Our total net European exposure was 

$7.3 billion as at October 31, 2013 ($7.9 billion in 2012), of which the 

majority is to counterparties in countries that are well rated. 
Further information on our direct and indirect European exposures is 
provided in the Select Geographic Exposures section on page 67. 
U.S. Political Gridlock 
The U.S. economy is continuing along its path of moderate growth, but 

the recovery has not yet fully taken hold and is vulnerable to stalling. 

The possibility of renewed political gridlock over the debt ceiling and 

budget has the potential to weaken the economy. These ongoing chal<

lenges have a negative effect on consumer, investor and business con<

fidence, which contributes to slower growth and has broader impacts on 

other countries, such as Canada, that rely on the United States to play a 

leading role in the global recovery. 
In light of the potential impact on our business, we continue to 
proactively monitor political developments in the United States. We 

continually assess our portfolio and business strategies, and 

contingency-plan for possible adverse developments. 
78 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
     
  Information and Cyber Security Risk 
Information security is integral to BMO’s information management, 
brand and reputation. In recent years, information security risks for 

financial institutions like BMO have been increasing. Our operations 

include online and mobile financial services that feature the secure 

processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Given 

our use of the internet and reliance on digital technologies, we face 

cyber security risks, which could include information security risk such as 

the threat of hacking, identity theft and corporate espionage, and denial 

of service risk such as threats targeted at causing system failure and 

service disruption. BMO maintains systems and procedures to prevent, 

monitor, react to and manage cyber security threats. It is possible that 
we, or those with whom we do business, may not anticipate or imple<

ment effective measures against all such security threats, because the 

techniques used change frequently and threats can originate from a 

wide variety of source that have also become increasingly sophisticated. 

In the event of such an occurrence, BMO may experience losses or 

reputational damage. 
We exercise continued vigilance and proactive planning to detect 
and contain possible threats. We also have action plans in place to 

enhance the overall security of our infrastructure and capabilities to 

mitigate losses from these risks. 
Further information on information security is provided in the 
Operational Risk section on page 94. 
Framework and Risks; ;
Risk Culture 
Risk Governance 
Risk Principles Risk Appetite 
Risk Review 
and Approval 
Risk Monitoring 
MD&A Credit and 
Counterparty 
Market 
Liquidity and 
Funding 
Operational 
Insurance 
Legal and 
Regulatory 
Business 
Model Strategic 
Reputation 
Environmental 
and Social Our enterprise-wide risk management framework consists of our 

operating model and our risk governance structure, both of which are 

underpinned by our strong risk culture. Our robust framework provides 

for the management of each individual risk type: credit and counter-

party, market, liquidity and funding, and operational. Other risk catego<

ries are also recognized within the framework, including insurance, 

legal and regulatory, business, model, strategic, reputation, and 

environmental and social. 
Our framework is anchored in the three-lines-of-defence approach to 
managing risk, which is fundamental to our operating model, as follows: 
‰ The first line of defence 
is the operating groups who own the risk in 
their operations. They are responsible for pursuing suitable business 

opportunities within our risk appetite. Each operating group must 

ensure that it is acting within its delegated risk-taking authority, as 

set out in our corporate risk policies and limits. Each of the groups has 

established effective processes and controls to ensure that they 

comply with and operate within these limits. 
‰ The second line of defence 
is provided by ERPM along with other 
Corporate Support areas. These groups provide independent oversight 

and establish corporate risk management policies, infrastructure, 

processes and practices that address all significant risks across the 

enterprise; and 
‰ The third line of defence 
is our Corporate Audit Division, which 
monitors the efficiency and effectiveness of controls across various 

functions within our operations, including control, risk management 

and governance processes that support the enterprise. 
Risk Governance 
The foundation of our enterprise-wide risk management framework is a 

governance structure that includes a robust committee structure and a 

comprehensive set of corporate policies, which are approved by the 

Board of Directors or its committees, as well as supporting corporate 

standards and operating guidelines. This enterprise-wide risk manage<

ment framework is governed through a hierarchy of committees and 

individual responsibilities as outlined in the diagram below. 
Our risk management framework is reviewed on a regular basis by 
the RRC to provide guidance for the governance of our risk-taking activ<

ities. In each of our operating groups, management monitors gover<

nance activities, controls, and management processes and procedures. 

Management also oversees their effective operation within our overall 

risk management framework. Individual governance committees estab<

lish and monitor further risk management limits, consistent with and 

subordinate to the board-approved limits. 
Limits and Authorities 
Our risk limits are shaped by our risk principles and risk appetite, which 

also help to shape our business strategies and decisions. These limits 

are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors and/or manage<

ment committees and include: 
‰ Credit and Counterparty Risk – limits on country, industry, portfolio/ 

product segments, and group and single-name exposures; 
‰ Market Risk – limits on economic value and earnings exposures to 

stress scenarios; 
‰ Liquidity and Funding Risk – limits on minimum levels of liquid assets 

and maximum levels of asset pledging and wholesale funding, as well 

as guidelines approved by senior management related to liability 

diversification, financial condition, and credit and liquidity exposure 

appetite; and 
‰ Insurance Risk – limits on policy expos
ure and reinsurance arrangements. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
79 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
MD&A Enterprise-Wide Risk Management Framework Board of Directors Risk Management Committee Operating Groups Chief Executive Officer Corporate Support AreasEnterprise Risk and Portfolio Management Corporate Audit Division Board Risk Review Committee Balance Sheet and Capital Management Reputation Risk Management Operational Risk First Line of Defence Second Line of Defence Third Line of Defence Board Audit and Conduct Review Committee Board of Directors 
is responsible for the stewardship of BMO and 
protecting the interest of BMO’s shareholders. The board, either 
directly or through its committees, is responsible for oversight in the 

following areas: strategic planning, defining risk appetite, identi<

fication and management of risk, capital management, promoting a 

culture of integrity, governance, internal controls, succession planning 

and evaluation of senior management, communication, public dis<

closure and corporate governance. 
Risk Review Committee of the Board of Directors (RRC) 
assists the 
board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to BMO’s 
identification and management of risk, adherence to risk manage<

ment corporate policies and procedures, compliance with risk-related 

regulatory requirements and evaluation of the Chief Risk Officer. 
Audit and Conduct Review Committee of the Board of Directors 
assists the board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the 

integrity of BMO’s financial reporting, effectiveness of BMO’s internal 

controls and performance of its internal and external audit functions. 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
is directly accountable to the board for 
all of BMO’s risk-taking activities. The CEO is supported by the Risk 
Management Committee and its sub-committees, as well as ERPM. 
Chief Risk Officer (CRO) 
reports directly to the CEO and is head of 
ERPM. The CRO is responsible for providing independent review and 
oversight of enterprise-wide risks and leadership on risk issues, 

developing and maintaining a risk management framework and 

fostering a strong risk culture across the enterprise. 
The Board of Directors, based on recommendations from the RRC and 

the RMC, delegates risk limits to the CEO. The CEO then delegates more 

specific authorities to the CRO, who in turn delegates them to the 

Operating Group CROs or the Treasurer in the case of structural market 

risk limits. These delegated authorities allow the officers to set risk 

tolerances, approve geographic and industry sector exposure limits 

within defined parameters, and establish underwriting and inventory 

limits for trading and investment banking activities. The authorities are 

reviewed and approved annually by the Board of Directors based on the 

recommendation of the RRC. The criteria whereby these authorities may 

be further delegated throughout the organization, as well as the 

requirements relating to documentation, communication and monitoring 

of delegated authorities, are set out in corporate policies and standards. 
Risk Management Committee (RMC) 
is BMO’s senior risk committee. 
RMC reviews and discusses significant risk issues and action plans that 

arise in executing the enterprise-wide strategy. RMC provides risk 

oversight and governance at the highest levels of management. This 

committee is chaired by the CRO. 
RMC Sub-committees 
have oversight responsibility for the risk and 
balance sheet impacts of management strategies, governance, risk 
measurement and contingency planning. RMC and its sub-committees 

provide oversight over the processes whereby the risks assumed 

across the enterprise are identified, measured, monitored and 

reported in accordance with policy guidelines and are held within 

delegated limits. 
Enterprise Risk and Portfolio Management (ERPM) 
provides independent oversight of the credit and counterparty, operational and 
market risk functions. It promotes consistency of risk management 

practices and standards across the enterprise. ERPM facilitates a dis<

ciplined approach to risk-taking through the execution of independent 

transactional approval and portfolio management, policy formulation, 

risk reporting, stress testing, modelling, vetting and risk education 

responsibilities. This approach seeks to meet enterprise objectives and 

to ensure that risks assumed are consistent with BMO’s risk appetite. 
Operating Groups 
are responsible for managing risk within their 
respective areas. They exercise business judgment and seek to ensure 
that policies, processes and internal controls are in place and that 

significant risk issues are appropriately escalated to ERPM. 
Risk Culture 
At BMO, we believe that risk management is the responsibility of every 

employee within the organization. This key tenet shapes and influences 

our risk culture and is evident in the actions and behaviours of our 

employees and leaders as they identify, interpret, discuss and make 

choices and decisions between risk and opportunities. Our risk culture is 

deeply rooted and is evident in every aspect of how we run our enter<

prise, including within our policies, risk management frameworks, risk 

appetite and tolerances, capital management and compensation. 
80 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
   
  
 
 

  
 
 
Our risk culture is built around a risk management system that 
encourages openness and builds confidence in how we engage stake<
holders in key decisions and strategy discussions, thereby bringing 

rigour and discipline to decision-making. This not only leads to the 

timely identification, escalation and resolution of issues, but also 

encourages communication and understanding of the key risks faced by 

our organization, so that our employees are equipped to take action and 

make decisions in a coordinated and consistent manner. Also, our 

governance and leadership forums, committee structures and learning 

curriculums reinforce and inspire our risk culture. 
Certain elements of our risk culture that are embedded across our 
organization include: 
‰ Risk appetite 
– promotes an understanding of the most prevalent 
risks that our businesses face and facilitates alignment of business 

strategies within the limits of our risk appetite, leading to sound 

business decision-making. 
‰Communication and escalation channels 
– encourages information 
sharing and engagement between ERPM and the operating groups, 

leading to enhanced risk transparency and open and effective 

communication. We also foster and encourage a culture where con<

cerns regarding potential or emerging risks are escalated to senior 

management so that they can be evaluated and appropriately 

addressed. ‰Compensation philosophy 
– pay is aligned with prudent risk-taking 
to ensure that compensation does not encourage excessive risk-taking 

and rewards the appropriate use of capital. 
‰Training and education 
– programs are designed to foster a deep 
understanding of BMO’s capital and risk management frameworks 

across the enterprise, providing employees and management with the 

tools and awareness required to fulfill their responsibilities for 

independent oversight regardless of their position in the organization. 

Our education strategy has been developed in partnership with BMO’s 

Institute for Learning, our risk management professionals, external 

risk experts and teaching professionals. 
‰Rotation programs 
– two-way rotation system allows employees to 
transfer between ERPM and the operating groups, thereby effectively 

embedding our strong risk culture across the enterprise. 
Risk Principles 
Risk-taking and risk management activities across the enterprise are 

guided by the following principles: 
‰ ERPM provides independent oversight of risk-taking activities across 

the organization; ‰ management of risk is a responsibility at all levels of the organization, 

employing the three-lines-of-defence approach; 
‰ERPM monitors our risk management framework to ensure that our 

risk profile is maintained within our established risk appetite and 

supported with adequate capital; 
‰ all material risks to which the enterprise is exposed are identified, 

measured, managed, monitored and reported; 
‰ decision-making is based on a clear understanding of risk, accom<

panied by robust metrics and analysis; and 
‰Economic Capital is used to measure and aggregate risk across all risk 

types and business activities to facilitate the incorporation of risk into 

the measurement of business returns. 
Risk Appetite 
Our Risk Appetite Framework consists of our Risk Appetite Statement, as 

well as supporting key risk metrics and corporate policies and standards, 

including limits. Our risk appetite defines the amount of risk that BMO is 

willing to assume in all risk types, given our guiding principles and capital 

capacity, thereby supporting sound business initiatives and growth. Our 

risk appetite is integrated into our strategic and capital planning 
processes and our lines of business. On an annual basis, senior manage<?

ment recommends our Risk Appetite Statement and key risk metrics for ?

approval by the RMC and the RRC. Our Risk Appetite Statement is articu<?

lated and applied consistently across the enterprise. Among other things, ?

our risk appetite requires: ?
‰ that everything we do is guided by principles of honesty, integrity and ?

respect, as well as high ethical standards; 
‰ only taking risks that are transparent, understood, measured, moni<

tored and managed; 
‰maintaining strong capital and liquidity and funding positions that 

meet or exceed regulatory requirements and the expectations of the 

market; ‰subjecting new products and initiatives to a rigorous review and 

approval process to ensure all key risks and returns are understood 

and can be managed with appropriate controls; 
‰ maintaining a robust recovery and resolution framework that enables 

an effective and efficient response in an extreme crisis; 
‰ targeting an investment grade credit rating at a level that allows 

competitive access to funding; 
‰ limiting exposure to low-frequency, high-severity events that could 

jeopardize BMO’s credit ratings, capital position or reputation; 
‰ incorporating risk measures into our performance management 

system; ‰maintaining effective policies, procedures, guidelines, compliance 

standards and controls, training and management that guide the 

business practices and risk-taking activities of all employees to protect 

BMO’s reputation and adhere to all regulatory and legal obligations; 

and ‰protecting the assets of BMO and BMO’s clients by maintaining a 

system of strong operational risk controls. 
Risk Review and Approval 
Risk review and approval processes are established based on the nature, 

size and complexity of the risks involved. Generally, this involves a 

formal review and approval of various categories by either an individual 

or a committee, independent of the originator. Delegated authorities 

and approvals by category are outlined below. 
Portfolio transactions – 
Transactions are approved through risk 
assessment processes for all types of transactions, which include 
operating group recommendations and ERPM approval of credit risk and 

transactional and position limits for market risk. 
Structured transactions – 
New structured products and transactions 
with significant reputation, legal, accounting, regulatory or tax risk are 
reviewed by the Reputation Risk Management Committee or the Trading 

Products Risk Committee, as appropriate. 
Investment initiatives – 
Documentation of risk assessments is for<
malized through our investment spending approval process, which is 
reviewed and approved by Corporate Support areas. 
New products and services – 
Policies and procedures for the approval of 
new or modified products and services offered to our customers are 
reviewed and approved by Corporate Support areas, as well as other 

senior management committees, i
ncluding the Operational Risk 
Committee and Reputation Risk Management Committee, as appropriate. 
Risk Monitoring 
Enterprise-level risk transparency and monitoring and the associated 

reporting are critical components of our framework and operating cul<

ture that help senior management, committees and the Board of Direc<

tors to effectively exercise their business management, risk 

management and oversight responsibilities. Internal reporting includes a 

synthesis of key risks and associated metrics that the organization 

currently faces. This reporting highlights our most significant risks, 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
81 MD&A MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
including assessments of our top and emerging risks, to provide senior 
management and the Board of Directors with timely, actionable and 

forward-looking risk reporting. This reporting includes material to facili<

tate assessments of these risks relative to our risk appetite and the 

relevant limits established within our Risk Appetite Framework. 
On a regular basis, reporting on risk is also provided to stake<
holders, including regulators, external rating agencies and our share<

holders, as well as to others in the investment community. 
Risk-Based Capital Assessment 
Two measures of risk-based capital are used by BMO: Economic Capital 

and Regulatory Capital. Both are aggregate measures of the risk that we 

undertake in pursuit of our financial targets. Our operating model pro<

vides for the direct management of each type of risk, as well as the 

management of risks on an integrated basis. Economic Capital is our 

integrated internal measure of the risk underlying BMO’s business activ<

ities. It represents management’s estimate of the magnitude of 

economic losses that could occur should adverse situations arise, and 

allows returns to be measured on a basis that considers the risks taken. 

Economic Capital is calculated for various types of risk – credit, market 

(trading and non-trading), operational and other – where measures are 

based on a time horizon of one year. Measuring the economic profit<

ability of transactions or portfolios incorporates a combination of both 

expected and unexpected losses to assess the extent and correlation of 

risk before authorizing new exposures. Economic Capital methods and 

model inputs are reviewed and/or re-calibrated on an annual basis, as 

applicable. Our Economic Capital models provide a forward-looking 

estimate of the difference between our maximum potential loss in 

economic (or market) value and our expected loss, measured over a 

specified time interval and using a defined confidence level. Both 

expected and unexpected loss measures for either a transaction or 

portfolio reflect current market conditions and credit quality. As the 

recovery continues these measures decrease, reflecting portfolio quality 

improvements, offset somewhat by increases due to growth. 
Stress Testing 
Stress testing is a key element of our risk and capital management frame<

works. It is inherently linked to our risk appetite and informs our strategy, 

business planning and decision-making processes. We conduct stress 
testing to evaluate the potential effects of low-frequency, high-severity 

events on our balance sheet, earnings, and liquidity and capital positions. 
Governance Governance over the stress testing framework resides with senior 

management, including the Stress Testing Steering Committee. This 

committee is comprised of business, risk and finance executives and is 

accountable to RMC for the oversight of BMO’s stress testing framework 

and for reviewing and challenging stress test results. As a part of the 

Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, enterprise-wide 

scenarios and stress testing results are presented to senior management 

and the board, together with recommended actions that BMO could take 

to manage the impact of the stress event. 
Enterprise Stress Testing 
Enterprise stress testing supports our internal capital adequacy assess<

ment and target-setting through the analysis of macroeconomic 

scenarios that are consistently executed by business, risk and finance 

groups. Scenario selection is a multi-step process that considers the 

macroeconomic environment, prevailing risk concerns, the potential 

impact of new or emerging risks on our risk profile, historical credit 

losses and areas of potential enterprise-specific vulnerability. Scenarios 

may be defined by senior management, the board or regulators. The 

Economics group then translates the scenario into macroeconomic and 

market variables, including but not limited to GDP growth, yield curve 

estimates, unemployment rates, housing starts, real estate prices, stock 

index growth and changes in corporate profits. 
Our stress testing process employs a bottom-up approach. We 
model the impact of a forward-looking scenario on our material risks, 

income statement and balance sheet over a forecast horizon to test the 

resilience of our capital. Stress test results, including mitigating actions, 

are benchmarked and challenged by relevant business units and senior 

management, including the Stress Testing Steering Committee. 
Ad Hoc Stress Testing 
Through our stress testing framework, we embed stress testing in strat<

egy, business planning and decision-making. Ad hoc stress testing is 

conducted regularly by our operating and risk groups to support risk 

identification, business analysis and strategic decision-making. 
Credit and Counterparty Risk 
Credit and counterparty risk 
is the potential for loss due to the 
failure of a borrower, endorser, guarantor or counterparty to repay 

a loan or honour another predetermined financial obligation. This is 

the most significant measurable risk that BMO faces. 
Credit and counterparty risk exists in every lending activity that BMO 

enters into, as well as in the sale of treasury and other capital markets 

products, the holding of investment securities and securitization activ<

ities. BMO’s robust credit risk management framework is aligned with 

the three-lines-of-defence approach to managing risk. As the first line of 

defence, operating groups are accountable for recommending credit 

decisions based on the completion of appropriate due diligence, and 

they assume ownership of the risk. As the second line of defence, ERPM 

approves credit decisions and is accountable for providing independent 

oversight of the risks assumed by the operating groups. All of these 

experienced and skilled individuals are subject to a rigorous lending 

qualification process and operate in a disciplined environment with clear 

delegation of decision-making authority, including individually dele<

gated lending limits. Credit decision-making is conducted at the 

management level appropriate to the size and risk of each transaction in 

accordance with comprehensive corporate policies, standards and 

procedures governing the conduct of credit risk activities. 
Credit risk is assessed and measured using risk-based parameters: 
Exposure at Default (EAD) 
represents an estimate of the outstanding 
amount of a credit exposure at the time a default may occur. For 
off-balance sheet amounts and undrawn amounts, EAD includes an esti<

mate of any further amounts that may be drawn at the time of default. 
Loss Given Default (LGD) 
is the amount that may not be recovered in 
the event of a default, presented as a proportion of the exposure at 
default. LGD takes into consideration the amount and quality of any 

collateral held. 
Probability of Default (PD) 
represents the likelihood that a credit 
obligation (loan) will not be repaid and will go into default. A PD is 
assigned to each account, based on the type of facility, the product type 

and customer characteristics. The credit history of the counterparty/ 

portfolio and the nature of the exposure are taken into account in the 

determination of a PD. 
Expected Loss (EL) 
is a measure representing the loss that is expected 
to occur in the normal course of business in a given period of time. EL is 

calculated as a function of EAD, LGD and PD. 
Under Basel II, there are three approaches available for the measurement 
of credit risk: Standardized, Foundation Internal Ratings Based and 
82 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB). Subject to a transitional floor 
based on the Standardized Approach, we apply the AIRB Approach for 

calculations of credit risk in our portfolios, including portfolios of our 

subsidiary BMO Bankcorp, Inc. (now part of BMO Financial Corp.). The 

Standardized Approach is currently being used in the acquired M&I portfo<

lio, but activities to transition to the AIRB Approach are well underway. 
Risk Rating Systems 
BMO’s risk rating systems are designed to assess and measure the risk 

of any exposure. The rating systems differ for the consumer and small 

business portfolios and the commercial and corporate portfolios. 
Consumer and Small Business 
The consumer and small business portfolios are made up of a diversified 

group of individual customer accounts and include residential mort<

gages, personal loans, and credit card and small business loans. These 

loans are managed in pools of homogeneous risk exposures. For these 
pools, credit risk models and decision support systems are developed 

using established statistical techniques and expert systems for under<

writing and monitoring purposes. Adjudication models, behavioural 

scorecards, decision trees and expert knowledge are combined to 

produce optimal credit decisions in a centralized and automated 

environment. The characteristics of both the borrower and the credit 

obligation, along with past portfolio experience, are used to predict the 

credit performance of new accounts. These metrics are used to define 

the overall credit risk profile of the portfolio, predict future performance 

of existing accounts for ongoing credit risk management and determine 

both Economic Capital and Basel II and Basel III regulatory capital. In 

addition, our consumer and small business ratings framework is utilized 

in the collective allowance process to quantify losses incurred but not 

identified for the performing loan portfolio. Exposures are segmented 

into homogeneous pools based on account characteristics such as credit 

bureau score, delinquency history, loan-to-value (LTV) ratio and loan 

balance. PDs and other credit risk parameters are then assigned to each 

pool based on the characteristics of the pool and historical loss experi<

ence, and the incurred loss is quantified. In the specific allowance proc<

ess, certain significant consumer loans are individually assessed for 

impairment and individually immaterial consumer loans are collectively 

assessed for impairment on a pooled basis, taking into account historical 

loss experience, PDs, delinquency status, bankruptcy status, product 

category and type of collateral pledged. The exposure of each pool is 

assigned risk parameters (PD, LGD and EAD) based on the performance 

of the pool, and these assignments are reviewed and updated monthly 

for changes. The PD risk profile of the AIRB Retail portfolio can be found 

on page 46 of the Supplementary Financial Information. 
Commercial and Corporate 
Within the commercial and corporate portfolios, we utilize an enterprise-

wide risk rating framework that is applied to all of our sovereign, bank, 

corporate and commercial counterparties. This framework is consistent 

with the principles of Basel II and Basel III, under which minimum regu<

latory capital requirements for credit risk are determined. One key 

element of this framework is the assignment of appropriate borrower 

risk ratings to help quantify potential credit risk. BMO’s risk rating 

framework establishes counterparty risk ratings using methodologies 

and rating criteria based on the specific risk characteristics of each 

counterparty. The resulting rating is then mapped to a PD over a 

one-year time horizon. As counterparties migrate between risk ratings, 

the PD associated with the counterparty changes. The commercial and 

corporate risk rating framework is utilized in the collective allowance 

process to quantify losses incurred but not identified for the performing 

loan portfolio. For performing commercial and corporate accounts, risk 

ratings are mapped to PDs based on historical long-run default experi<

ence for a given portfolio. Borrower risk ratings are assigned within this 
framework using methodologies and rating criteria based on the specific 

risk characteristics of each counterparty. As counterparties migrate 

between risk ratings, the associated PDs also change, which is reflected 

in the incurred loss calculation. In the specific allowance process, risk 

ratings are assigned to impaired exposures in the commercial and 

corporate portfolios; however, these risk ratings reflect whether or not a 

loan has been classified as impaired and not the PD, since objective 

evidence of impairment already exists. Specific allowances and the 

related provisions for credit losses are determined at the individual 

account level based on the expected recoverable amount. 
As demonstrated in the table below, our internal risk rating system 
corresponds in a logical manner to those of the external rating agencies. 
Borrower Risk Rating Scale 
Moody’s Investors 
BMO rating Description of risk 
Service implied

equivalent Standard & Poor’s 

implied equivalent 
Investment grade 
I-1 to I-3 
Undoubted to minimal 
Aaa to Aa3 
AAA to AA<
I-4 to I-5 
Modest A1 to Baa1 
A+ to BBB+ 
I-6 to I-7 
Average Baa2 to Baa3 
BBB to BBB<
Non-investment grade 

S-1 to S-2 
Acceptable Ba1 to Ba2 
BB+ to BB 
S-3 to S-4 
Marginal Ba3 to B1 
BB-to B+ 
Watchlist 
P-1 Deteriorating B2 B P-2 to P-3 
Watchlist B3 to Ca 
B-to CC 
Default and impaired 

D-1 to D-4 
Default/default and 

impaired C D Policies and Standards 
BMO’s credit risk management framework is built on governing princi<
ples defined in a series of corporate policies and standards, which flow 

through to more specific guidelines and procedures. These are reviewed 

on a regular basis to keep them current and consistent with BMO’s risk 

appetite. The structure, limits, collateral requirements, ongoing 

management, monitoring and reporting of our credit exposures are all 

governed by these credit risk management principles. 
Credit Risk Governance 
The RRC has oversight of the management of all risks faced by the 

enterprise, including credit risk. Operating practices include the ongoing 

monitoring of credit risk exposures and regular portfolio and sector 

reporting to the board and to senior management committees. 

Performing accounts are reviewed on a regular basis, with most 

commercial and corporate accounts reviewed at least annually. The 

frequency of review is increased in accordance with the likelihood and 

size of potential credit losses, with deteriorating higher-risk situations 

referred to specialized account management groups for closer attention, 

when appropriate. Corporate Audit Division reviews and tests manage<

ment processes and controls and samples credit transactions for adher<

ence to credit terms and conditions, as well as to governing policies, 

standards and procedures. In addition, regular portfolio and sector 

reviews are carried out, including stress testing and scenario analysis 

based on current, emerging or prospective risks. 
Portfolio Management 
BMO’s credit risk governance policies provide for an acceptable level of 

diversification. Limits are in place for several portfolio dimensions, 

including industry, country, product and single-name concentrations, as 

well as transaction-specific limits. At year end, our credit assets con<

sisted of a well-diversified portfolio comprised of millions of clients, the 

majority of them consumers and small to medium-sized businesses. 
BMO employs a number of measures to mitigate and manage credit 
risk. These measures include, but are not limited to, strong underwriting 
MD&A Material in blue-tinted font above is an integral part of the 2013 annual consolidated financial statements (see page 77). 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
83  MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
standards, qualified professional risk managers, a robust monitoring and 
review process, the redistribution of exposures, and the purchase or sale 

of insurance through guarantees or credit default swaps. 
Collateral Management 
Collateral is used for credit risk mitigation purposes and minimizes 
losses that would otherwise be incurred. Depending on the type of 

borrower, the assets available and the structure and term of the credit 

obligations, collateral can take various forms. Investment grade liquid 

securities are regularly pledged in support of treasury counterparty 

facilities. For corporate and commercial borrowers, collateral can take 

the form of pledges of the assets of a business, such as accounts receiv<

able, inventory, machinery and real estate, or personal assets pledged in 

support of guarantees. On an ongoing basis, collateral is subject to 

regular revaluation specific to asset type. 
For loans, collateral values are initially established at the time of 
origination, and the frequency of revaluation is dependent on the type 

of collateral. For investor-owned commercial real estate, a full external 

appraisal of the property is obtained at the time of loan origination, 

except where the loan is below a specified threshold amount, in which 

case an internal evaluation and a site inspection are completed. Internal 

evaluation methods may consider tax assessments, purchase price, real 

estate listing or realtor opinion. The case for an updated appraisal is 

reviewed annually, with consideration given to the borrower risk rating, 

existing tenants and lease contracts, as well as current market con<

ditions. In the event a loan is classified as impaired, depending on its 

size, a current external appraisal, evaluation or restricted use appraisal is 

obtained and updated every twelve months while the loan is classified 

as impaired. For residential real estate, an external property appraisal is 

routinely obtained at the time of loan origination. For high LTV ratio 

insured mortgages, BMO relies on acceptance by the insurer to confirm 

the property’s value. In limited low LTV ratio circumstances, BMO may 

use an external service provided by Canada Mortgage and Housing 

Corporation to assist in determining if a full property appraisal is 

required. Full external appraisals are obtained for all loans held for sale 

in the secondary market (i.e., through securitization vehicles) regardless 

of the LTV ratio. 
Credit Quality Information 
Portfolio Review 

Total enterprise-wide outstanding credit exposures were $508 billion at 

October 31, 2013, comprised of $323 billion in Canada, $156 billion in 

the United States and $29 billion in other jurisdictions. This represents 

an increase of $12 billion or 2% from the prior year. 
BMO’s loan book continues to be well diversified by industry and 
geographic region and, consistent with the prior year, the consumer 

portfolio represented the majority of loans. Gross loans and acceptances 

increased by $25 billion or 10% from the prior year to $281 billion at 

October 31, 2013. The geographic mix of our Canadian and U.S. portfo<

lios was relatively unchanged from the prior year, and represented 

72.9% and 24.5% of total loans, respectively, compared with 73.1% and 

25.0% in 2012. The consumer loan portfolio represented 59.8% of the 

total portfolio, relatively unchanged from 60.0% in 2012, with approx<

imately 88% of the portfolio secured in Canada and 97% in the 

United States. Corporate and commercial loans represented 40.2% of the 

total portfolio, relatively unchanged from 40.0% in 2012. The chart 

below provides a breakdown of our loan book by product and industry. 

Our loan portfolio is well-diversified by industry and we continue to 

proactively monitor industry sectors that we consider warrant closer 

attention, including Canadian consumer loans and U.S. real estate. 

Further details on our loan book, including detailed breakdowns 

by industry and geographic region, can be found in Tables 11 to 19 

on pages 112 to 118 and in Note 6 on page 142 of the financial 

statements. Gross Loans and Acceptances by Product and Industry As at October 31, 2013 
Other Government 

Financial institutions 

Service industries 

Forest products 

Utilities 
Transportation 

Oil and gas 
Mining 
Manufacturing 

Communications 

Agriculture 

Wholesale trade 

Retail trade 
Commercial mortgages 
Commercial real estate 
Construction 
Personal loans 
Œ Canada Personal loans 
Œ U.S. 
Residential mortgages 
Œ Canada Credit cards 
Residential mortgages Œ U.S. 
Details related to our credit exposures are discussed in Note 4, on 
page 137 of the financial statements. Our European exposure by country 
and counterparty is also summarized in the Select Geographic Exposures 

section on page 67 and in Tables 20 to 22 on pages 119 and 120. 
Real Estate Secured Lending 
Residential mortgage and home equity line of credit (HELOC) exposures 

are areas of interest in the current environment. BMO regularly performs 

stress testing on its residential mortgage and HELOC portfolios to eval<

uate the potential impact of high-impact events. These stress tests 

incorporate moderate to severe adverse scenarios. The credit losses 

forecast in these tests vary depending on the severity of the scenario 

and are considered to be manageable. 
In 2012, new residential real estate lending rules were introduced 
for federally regulated lenders in Canada, including restrictions on LTV 

ratios for revolving HELOCs, on the waiver of confirmation of income and 

on debt service ratio maximums, as well as a maximum amortization of 

25 years and a maximum home value of $1 million for high LTV ratio 

insured mortgages (LTV greater than 80%). The regulatory changes 

resulted in some adjustments to loan underwriting practices, including 

reducing the maximum LTV ratio on revolving HELOCs to 65% from the 

previous maximum of 80%. 
Provision for Credit Losses (PCL) 
Total PCL was $589 million in the current year, down 23% from 

$765 million in 2012. Detailed discussion of our PCL, including historical 

trends in PCL, is provided on page 42, on Table 19 on page 118 and in 

Note 4 on page 139 of the financial statements. 
Gross Impaired Loans (GIL) 
Total GIL, which excludes purchased credit impaired loans, decreased by 

$432 million or 15% from 2012 to $2,544 million in 2013 reflecting 

decreases in both Canada and the United States. This amount includes 

$928 million of GIL related to the purchased performing loan portfolio, 

of which $146 million is subject to a loss-sharing agreement with the 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that expires in 2015 for commer<

cial loans and 2020 for retail loans. GIL as a percentage of gross loans 

and acceptances also decreased over the prior year from 1.17% in 2012 

to 0.91% in 2013. 
Factors contributing to the change in GIL are outlined in the table 
below. Loans classified as impaired during the year, excluding the 

purchased performing loan portfolio, decreased from $1,680 million in 

2012 to $1,563 million in 2013. Impaired loan formations related to the 

purchased performing loan portfolio were $886 million in 2013, down 

from $1,421 million in 2012. On a geographic basis, the United States 
Material in blue-tinted font above is an integral part of the 2013 annual consolidated financial statements (see page 77). 
84 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
accounted for the majority of impaired loan formations, comprising 
64.0% of total formations in 2013, compared with 70.3% in 2012. 

Further details on the breakdown of impaired loans by geographic 

region and industry can be found on Table 15 on page 114 and in Note 4 

on page 137 of the financial statements. 
Changes in Gross Impaired Loans (GIL) and Acceptances 
(1) ($ millions, except as noted) 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 GIL, beginning of year 
2,976 2,685 Classified as impaired during the year 
2,449 3,101 Transferred to not impaired during the year 
(728) (968) Net repayments 
(1,058) (517) Write-offs (939) (1,179) Disposals of loans 
(343) (197) Foreign exchange and other 
187 51 GIL, end of year 
2,544 2,976 Condition Ratios 
GIL as a % of gross loans and acceptances 
0.91 1.17 GIL as a % of gross loans and acceptances, excluding 
purchased portfolios 
(2) 0.61 0.84 (1) GIL excludes purchased credit impaired loans. 
(2) Ratio is presented excluding purchased portfolios, to provide for better historical? ?
comparisons.??Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL) 

Across all loan portfolios, BMO employs a disciplined approach to provi<

sioning and loan loss evaluation, with the prompt identification of 

problem loans being a key risk management objective. BMO maintains 

both specific and collective allowances for credit losses. Specific allow<

ances reduce the aggregate carrying value of credit assets for which 

there is evidence of deterioration in credit quality. We also maintain a 

collective allowance in order to cover any impairment in the existing 

portfolio that cannot yet be associated with individually identified 

impaired loans. Our approach to establishing and maintaining the collec<

tive allowance is based on guidelines issued by our regulator, OSFI. For 

the purposes of calculating the collective allowance, we group loans on 

the basis of similar credit risk characteristics. Our methodology 

incorporates both quantitative and qualitative components to determine 

an appropriate level for the collective allowance. The quantitative 

component measures long-run expected losses based on PD and LGD 

risk parameters. For commercial and corporate loans, key factors that 

determine the incurred but not identified losses include the underlying 

risk rating of the borrower, industry sector, credit product and amount 

and quality of collateral held. For consumer and small business loans, 

exposures are pooled based on similar risk characteristics and the 

incurred loss parameters are determined from the long-run default and 

historical loss experience of each pool. The collective allowance is 

adjusted to reflect qualitative factors such as management’s credit 

judgment with respect to current and near term macroeconomic and 

business conditions, portfolio-specific considerations, credit quality 

trends, changes in lending practices, model factors and the level of 

non-performing balances (impaired loans) for which a specific allowance 

has not yet been assessed. We review the collective allowance on a 

quarterly basis. 
BMO maintains the allowance for credit losses at a level that we 
consider adequate to absorb credit-related losses. As at October 31, 

2013, ACL was $1,970 million, comprised of $485 million of specific 

allowance and $1,485 million of collective allowance. This includes 

$41 million of specific allowance and $264 million of collective allow<

ance related to undrawn commitments and letters of credit that 

are considered other credit instruments and recorded in other liabilities. 

Total ACL remained relatively stable year over year, increasing by 

$34 million or 2%. Our coverage ratios are trending positively with ACL 

as a percentage of GIL, including and excluding purchased portfolios, 

increasing year over year. 
The collective allowance increased by $25 million from 2012 to 
$1,485 million in 2013. The collective allowance remains adequate and 

at year end represented 0.83% of credit risk-weighted assets, compared 

with 0.85% at the end of 2012. 
Factors contributing to the change in ACL are outlined in the table 
below. Further details on changes in ACL by country and portfolio can 

be found in Tables 16 and 17 on page 116 and in Note 4 on page 137 of 

the financial statements. 
Changes in Allowance for Credit Losses 
(1) ($ millions, except as noted) 
For the year ended October 31 
2013 2012 Specific ACL, beginning of year 
476 559??Specific PCL (charge to income statement) 
599 762??Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 
772 846??Write-offs (1,299) (1,594)??Foreign exchange and other 
(63) (97)??Specific ACL, end of year 
485 476 Collective ACL, beginning of year 
1,460 1,452 Collective PCL (charge to income statement) 
(10) 3 Foreign exchange and other 
35 5 Collective ACL, end of year 
1,485 1,460 Total ACL 
1,970 1,936 Comprised of: Loans 
1,665 1,706 Specific allowance for other credit instruments 
41 29 Collective allowance for other credit instruments 
264 201 Coverage Ratios 
ACL as a % of GIL 
75.8 64.1 ACL as a % of GIL, excluding purchased portfolios 
(2) 108.2 83.7 (1) Includes allowances related to other credit instruments that are included in other liabilities. 
(2) Ratio is presented excluding purchased portfolios, to provide for better historical 
comparisons. MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
85 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Derivative Transactions 
With limited exceptions, we utilize the International Swaps and 
Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreement to document our 

contractual trading relationships with our counterparties for over-the<

counter (OTC) derivatives. ISDA Master Agreements set out the legal 

framework and standard terms that apply to all derivative transactions 

entered into bilaterally between the parties. In addition to providing 

Events of Default and Termination Events, which can lead to the early 

termination of transactions prior to their maturity date, ISDA Master 

Agreements also contain rules for the calculation and netting of termi<

nation values (also known as Close-out Amounts) for transactions 

between counterparties to identify a single net aggregate amount 

payable by one party to the other. 
Credit Support Annexes (CSAs) are commonly included with ISDA 
Master Agreements to provide for the exchange of collateral between 

the parties where one party’s OTC derivatives exposure to the other 
Over-the-Counter Derivatives 
(Notional amounts) 
(Canadian $ in millions) 
party exceeds an agreed amount (Threshold). The purpose of 

collateralization is to mitigate counterparty credit risk. Collateral can be 

exchanged as initial margin and/or variation margin. CSAs outline, 

among other things, provisions setting out acceptable collateral types 

(e.g., government treasuries and cash) and how they will be valued 

(discounts are often applied to the market values), as well as Thresh<

olds, whether or not the collateral can be re-pledged by the recipient 

and how interest is calculated. 
The following table represents the notional amounts of our OTC 
derivative contracts, comprised of those which are centrally cleared and 

settled through a designated clearing house and those which are non-

centrally cleared. The notional amounts of our derivatives represent the 

amount to which a rate or price is applied in order to calculate the 

amount of cash that must be exchanged under the contract. Notional 

amounts do not represent assets or liabilities and therefore are not 

recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The fair values of OTC 

derivative contracts are recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Non-centrally cleared 
Centrally cleared 
Total As at October 31 
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Interest Rate Contracts 
Swaps 1,084,369 
1,563,766 1,140,417 401,410 2,224,786 
1,965,176 Forward rate agreements 
52,137 
223,482 347,614 346,266 399,751 
569,748 Purchased options 
18,283 
24,015 – – 18,283 
24,015 Written options 
23,020 31,364 – – 23,020 31,364 Total interest rate contracts 
1,177,809 
1,842,627 1,488,031 
747,676 2,665,840 
2,590,303 Foreign Exchange Contracts 

Cross-currency swaps 
44,834 30,485 – – 44,834 30,485 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 
255,337 
238,675 – – 255,337 
238,675 Forward foreign exchange contracts 
263,607 
217,345 – – 263,607 
217,345 Purchased options 
10,923 8,682 – – 10,923 8,682 Written options 
13,530 10,588 – – 13,530 10,588 Total foreign exchange contracts 
588,231 505,775 – – 588,231 505,775 Commodity Contracts 

Swaps 15,122 15,034 – – 15,122 15,034 Purchased options 
8,081 9,002 – – 8,081 9,002 Written options 
4,285 5,164 – – 4,285 5,164 Total commodity contracts 
27,488 29,200 – – 27,488 29,200 Equity Contracts 39,360 30,000 – – 39,360 30,000 Credit Default Swaps 

Purchased 8,541 11,682 294 – 8,835 11,682 Written 13,072 24,126 216 – 13,288 24,126 Total credit default swaps 
21,613 35,808 510 – 22,123 35,808 Total 1,854,501 
2,443,410 1,488,541 
747,676 3,343,042 
3,191,086 86 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Market Risk 
Market risk 
is the potential for adverse changes in the value of 
BMO’s assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market varia<
bles such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity and 

commodity prices and their implied volatilities, and credit spreads, 

as well as the risk of credit migration and default. 
BMO incurs market risk in its trading and underwriting activities and 

structural banking activities. 
As part of our enterprise-wide risk management framework, we 
apply extensive governance and management processes to our market 

risk-taking activities. These include: 
‰oversight by senior governance committees, including the Balance 

Sheet and Capital Management Committee, RMC and RRC; 
‰an Economic Capital process that incorporates market risk measures; 
‰independent valuation of trading positions and measurement of 

market risk; 
‰a broad set of policies and corporate standards; 
‰monitoring an extensive range of risk metrics as appropriate for the 

respective portfolios, including VaR, Stressed VaR, stress and scenario 

tests, risk sensitivities and operational metrics; 
‰a well-developed set of limits with appropriate monitoring, reporting 

and escalation of limit breaches; and 
‰a model risk management framework to control for model risk. 
BMO’s Market Risk group provides independent oversight of trading and 

underwriting portfolios with the goal of ensuring: 
‰market risk of our trading and underwriting activities is measured and 

modelled in compliance with corporate policies and standards; 
‰risk profiles of our trading and underwriting activities are maintained 

within our risk appetite, and are monitored and reported to traders, 

management, senior executives and board committees; 
‰proactive identification and reporting to management, senior execu<

tives and board committees of specific exposures or other factors that 

expose BMO to unusual, unexpected, inappropriate or otherwise not 

fully identified or quantified risks associated with market or traded 

credit exposures; and 
‰all individuals authorized to execute trading and underwriting activ<

ities on behalf of BMO are appropriately informed of BMO’s risk-taking 

governance, authority structure and procedures and processes, and 

are given access to and guidance on the relevant corporate policies 

and standards. BMO’s Market Risk group also provides oversight of structural market 

risk, which is managed by BMO’s Corporate Treasury group and 

described on page 91. 
Key Trading and underwriting market risk measures include Value 
at Risk and Stressed Value at Risk, and key structural market risk meas<

ures include Earnings Sensitivity and Economic Value Sensitivity, as 

noted below. 
Value at Risk (VaR) 
is measured for specific classes of risk in 
BMO’s trading and underwriting activities: interest rate, foreign 
exchange rate, credit spreads, equity and commodity prices and 

their implied volatilities. This measure calculates the maximum loss 

likely to be experienced in the portfolios, measured at a 99% con<

fidence level over a specified holding period. 
Stressed Value at Risk (SVaR) 
is measured for specific classes of 
risk in BMO’s trading and underwriting activities: interest rate, 
foreign exchange rate, credit spreads, equity and commodity prices 

and their implied volatilities, where model inputs are calibrated to 

historical data from a period of significant financial stress. This 

measure calculates the maximum loss likely to be experienced in 

the portfolios, measured at a 99% confidence level over a specified 

holding period. 
Earnings Sensitivity 
is a measure of the impact of potential? ?
changes in interest rates on the projected 12-month after-tax net? ?
income of a portfolio of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet? ?

positions in response to prescribed parallel interest rate? ?

movements.??Economic Value Sensitivity 
is a measure of the impact of potential 
changes in interest rates on the market value of a portfolio of 
assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions, in response to 

prescribed parallel interest rate movements. 
MD&A Material in blue-tinted font above is an integral part of the 2013 annual consolidated financial statements (see page 77). 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
87   
   MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Linkages between Balance Sheet Items and Market Risk Disclosures 
($ millions) 
Below are parts of our consolidated balance sheet that are subject to market risk, showing balances that are mainly subject to traded risk and non-
traded risk measurement techniques. 
Market risk measure 
2013 
2012 
Main risk factors for 
Traded Non-traded Traded Non-traded non-traded risk 
As at October 31 
Total risk (1) risk (2) Total risk (1) risk (2) balances Assets Subject to Market Risk 
Interest bearing deposits with banks 
6,518 1,511 5,007 6,341 2,226 4,115 Interest rate 
Securities Trading (3)(4) 
75,159 69,393 
5,766 
70,109 62,599 7,510 Interest rate 
Available for sale 
53,067 27,817 25,250 56,382 31,029 25,353 Interest rate 
Held to maturity 
6,032 – 6,032 875 – 875 Interest rate 
Other 723 – 723 958 – 958 Equity Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 
39,799 39,799 – 47,011 47,011 – Interest rate 
Loans and acceptances (net of allowance for credit losses) 
279,095 – 279,095 253,835 – 253,835 Interest rate, 

foreign exchange 
Derivative instruments 
30,259 29,484 
775 
48,071 46,575 1,496 Interest rate, 
foreign exchange 
Other assets 
(4) 8,971 828 8,143 10,338 1,525 8,813 Interest rate 
Liabilities Subject to Market Risk 

Deposits 366,821 5,928 360,893 
323,702 4,301 319,401 Interest rate, 
foreign exchange 
Derivative instruments 
31,974 31,184 
790 
48,736 48,163 573 Interest rate, 
foreign exchange 
Acceptances 8,472 – 8,472 8,019 – 8,019 Interest rate 
Securities sold but not yet purchased 
22,446 22,446 – 23,439 23,439 – Interest rate 
Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements 
28,884 28,884 – 39,737 39,737 – Interest rate 
Other liabilities 
(4) 42,212 2,176 40,036 46,596 3,981 42,615 Interest rate 
Subordinated debt 3,996 – 3,996 4,093 – 4,093 Interest rate 
Capital trust securities 
463 – 463 462 – 462 Interest rate 
MD&A (1) Includes BMO’s balance sheet items subject to the trading and underwriting risk management framework. 
(2) Includes BMO’s balance sheet items subject to the structural balance sheet and insurance risk management framework. 
(3) Includes securities designated at fair value through profit or loss. 
(4) Includes balances relating to our insurance business. 
Trading and Underwriting Market Risk 
To capture the multi-dimensional aspects of market risk effectively, a 
number of metrics are used, including VaR, SVaR, stress testing, sensitiv<

ities, position concentrations, market and notional values and revenue 

losses. VaR and stress testing are estimates of portfolio risk, but have 
limitations. Among the limitations of VaR is the assumption that all 

positions can be liquidated within the assigned one-day holding period 

(ten-day holding period for regulatory calculations), which may not be 

the case in illiquid market conditions, and that historical data can be 

used as a proxy to predict future market events. Generally, market 

liquidity horizons are reviewed for suitability and updated where appro<

priate for relevant risk metrics. Scenario analysis and probabilistic stress 

testing are performed daily to determine the impact of unusual and/or 

unexpected market changes on our portfolios. As well, historical and 

event stresses are tested on a weekly basis, including tests of scenarios 

such as the stock market crash of 1987 and the collapse of Lehman 

Brothers in 2008. 
Ad hoc analyses are run to examine our sensitivity to 
low-frequency, high-severity hypothetical scenarios. Scenarios are 

amended, added or deleted to better reflect changes in underlying 

market conditions. The results are reported to the lines of business, RMC 

and RRC on a regular basis. Stress testing is limited by the number of 

scenarios that can be run, and by the fact that not all downside 

scenarios can be predicted and effectively modelled. Neither VaR nor 

stress testing is viewed as a definitive predictor of the maximum 

amount of losses that could occur in any one day, because both meas<

ures are computed at prescribed confidence levels and their results 

could be exceeded in highly volatile market conditions. On a daily basis, 

exposures are aggregated by lines of business and risk type and moni<

tored against delegated limit levels, and the results are reported to the 
appropriate stakeholders. BMO has a robust governance process in place 

to ensure adherence to delegated market risk limits. Amounts exceeding 

established limits are communicated to senior management on a timely 

basis for resolution and appropriate action. 
Within the Market Risk group, the Valuation Product Control (VPC) 
group is responsible for independent valuation of all trading and 

available-for-sale portfolios within Capital Markets Trading Products and 

Corporate Treasury, to ensure that they are materially accurate by: 
‰ developing and maintaining valuation adjustment policies and proce<

dures in accordance with regulatory requirements and IFRS; 
‰ establishing official rate sources for valuation of all portfolios; and 
‰ providing an independent review of portfolios where trader prices are 

used for valuation. This would include instruments accounted for on a 

trading and AFS basis. 
VPC processes include all OTC and exchange-traded instruments that are 

booked, including both trading and AFS securities. 
Trader valuations are reviewed to determine whether they align 
with an independent assessment of the market value of the portfolio. If 

the valuation difference exceeds the prescribed tolerance threshold, a 

valuation adjustment is recorded in accordance with our accounting 

policy and regulatory requirements. Prior to the final month-end general 

ledger close, meetings are held between key stakeholders from the 

lines of business, Market Risk, Capital Markets Finance and the Chief 

Accountant’s Group to review all valuation adjustments that are estab<

lished by the Market Risk group. 
The Valuation Steering Committee is BMO’s senior management 
valuation committee. It meets at least quarterly to address the more 

challenging material valuation issues in BMO’s portfolios and acts as a 

key forum for discussing positions categorized as Level 3 for financial 

reporting purposes and their inherent uncertainty. 
Material in blue-tinted font above is an integral part of the 2013 annual consolidated financial statements (see page 77). 
88 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
At a minimum, the following are considered when determining 
appropriate valuation adjustments: credit valuation adjustments, 
closeout costs, uncertainty, administrative costs, and liquidity and model 

risk. Also, a fair value hierarchy is used to categorize the inputs used in 

the valuation of securities, liabilities, derivative assets and derivative 

liabilities. Level 1 inputs consist of quoted market prices, Level 2 inputs 

consist of models that use observable market information and Level 3 

inputs consist of models without observable market information. Details 

of Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair value measurements can be found in 

Note 29 on page 178 of the financial statements. 
Our models are used to determine market risk Economic Capital for 
each of our lines of business and to determine regulatory capital. For 

capital calculation purposes, longer holding periods and/or higher con<

fidence levels are used than are employed in day-to-day risk manage<

ment. Prior to use, models are subject to review under the Model Risk 

Corporate Standard by our Model Risk and Vetting group. The Model Risk 

Corporate Standard outlines minimum requirements for the identi<

fication, assessment, monitoring and management of models and model 

risk throughout the enterprise and is described on page 96. 
We measure the market risk for trading and underwriting portfolios 
that meet regulatory criteria for trading book capital treatment using the 

Internal Models Approach. We also apply this approach in measuring the 

market risk for money market portfolios that are subject to AFS 

accounting rules under IFRS and are accorded banking book regulatory 

capital treatment. For trading and underwriting portfolios covered by the 

Internal Models Approach, VaR is computed using BMO’s Trading Book 

VaR model. This is a Monte Carlo scenario simulation model, and its 

results are used for market risk management and reporting of 

exposures. The model computes one-day VaR results using a 99% con<

fidence level and reflects the correlations between the different classes 

of market risk factors. 
We use a variety of methods to verify the integrity of our risk 
models, including the application of back-testing against hypothetical 

losses. This process assumes there are no changes in the previous day’s 

closing positions and then isolates the effects of each day’s price 

movements against those closing positions. Models are validated by 

assessing how often the calculated hypothetical losses exceed the VaR 

measure over a defined period. This testing result is in line with 

regulatory-defined expectations and confirms the reliability of our 

models. The correlations and volatility data that underpin our models 

are updated monthly, so that VaR measures reflect current levels 

of volatility. 
The total trading VaR decreased over the year due to reduced 
exposure in equity and credit risk factors, coupled with increased 

diversification. The total AFS VaR increase was the result of enhanced 

risk capture at the beginning of the year, additional assets and the 

impact of higher interest rates. Total trading SVaR increased modestly 

despite the benefit of increased diversification between risk factors. 

Model inputs for SVaR are calibrated to historical data from a period of 

significant financial stress, whereas model inputs for VaR are calibrated 

to data from a trailing one-year period. 
Total Trading Value at Risk (VaR) Summary 
($ millions)
* As at 
For the year ended October 31, 2013 
Oct. 31, 
(pre-tax Canadian equivalent) 
Year-end Average High Low 
2012 
Commodity VaR 
(0.4) (0.6) (1.0) (0.2) (0.6) Equity VaR 
(6.1) (6.3) (8.5) (4.4) (6.6) Foreign exchange VaR 
(0.5) (1.6) (4.4) 
(0.1) (0.2) Interest rate VaR 
(4.6) (4.9) (10.6) 
(2.3) (4.5) Credit VaR 
(5.0) (5.4) (9.4) (4.1) 
(5.5) Diversification 7.5 9.3 
nm nm 6.7 Total trading VaR 
(9.1) (9.5) (15.8) 
(6.7) 
(10.7) Total AFS VaR 
(10.1) (11.0) 
(14.5) (7.2) (8.9) Total Trading Stressed Value at Risk (SVaR) Summary 
($ millions)* ** 
As at 
For the year ended October 31, 2013 
Oct. 31, 
(pre-tax Canadian equivalent) 
Year-end Average High Low 
2012 
Commodity SVaR 
(4.7) (3.0) (6.3) (1.1) (2.1) Equity SVaR 
(9.8) (9.4) (16.0) 
(6.2) 
(10.5) Foreign exchange SVaR 
(0.8) (3.2) (7.0) 
(0.4) 
(0.3) Interest rate SVaR 
(9.5) (10.0) 
(15.3) 
(4.9) 
(11.4) Credit SVaR 
(11.0) (10.8) 
(14.2) 
(7.7) 
(9.3) Diversification 19.9 21.3 nm nm 18.9 Total trading SVaR 
(15.9) (15.1) 
(24.1) 
(10.6) 
(14.7) * The tables reflect updated first quarter 2013 metrics.? ?
** Stressed VaR is produced weekly.? ?

nm – not meaningful? ?
MD&A Material in blue-tinted font above is an integral part of the 2013 annual consolidated financial statements (see page 77). 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
89    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
MD&A D aily r e v enues 
T ot al t r adi ng V a R 
Total A F S VaR 
Trading Net Revenue versus 
Value at Risk November 1, 2012 to October 31, 2013 ($ millions) 
(3 0 ) 
(1 0 ) 
10 30 
50 No v 0 1
Jan 30Jul 23Oct 18 (3) (4) (5) (1) (6) Apr 26 
(2) (1) March 13 – $23.5 million which primarily reflects normal trading activity. 
(2) March 18 – $(8.9) million which primarily reflects credit valuation adjustments. 
(3) May 31 – $38.3 million which primarily reflects normal trading activity and underwriting. 
(4) June 12 – $28.3 million which primarily reflects normal trading activity. 
(5) June 26 – $33.5 million which primarily reflects normal trading activity. 
(6) September 24 – $(6.8) million which reflects normal trading activity and valuation adjustments. 
VaR Risk Factors 
November 1, 2012 to October 31, 2013 ($ millions) 
Interest rate 
Commodity Total trading Credit 
Equity 
Foreign exchange Total AFS (16) (12) (4) (8) 0 1 Nov™12 30 Nov™12 31 Dec™12 31 Jan™13 
28 Feb™13 
31 Mar™13 30 Apr™13 31 May™13 
30 Jun™13 
31 Jul™13 
31 Aug™13 30 Sep™13 31 Oct
™13 90 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013? 
  Frequency Distribution of Daily Net Revenues November 1, 2012 to October 31, 2013 ($ millions) Daily net revenues (pre-tax) Frequency in number of days 
13579(9) (7) (5) (3) (1) 
212325272931333537 
0 5 10 15 
20 
25 
30 35 40 11 13 15 17 19 
Structural Market Risk 
Structural market risk is comprised of interest rate risk arising from our 
banking activities (loans and deposits) and foreign exchange risk arising 

from our foreign currency operations. Structural market risk is managed 

in support of high-quality earnings and maximization of sustainable 

product spreads. The RRC approves the market risk policy limits 

governing structural market risk and regularly reviews structural market 

risk positions. The Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee 

and the RMC provide senior management oversight. BMO’s Corporate 

Treasury group is responsible for the ongoing management of structural 

market risk across the enterprise, with independent oversight provided 

by the Market Risk group. 
Structural interest rate risk arises primarily from interest rate 
mismatches and product embedded options. Interest rate mismatch risk 

results from differences in the scheduled maturity, repricing dates or 

reference rates of assets, liabilities and derivatives. Product embedded 

option risk results from product features that allow customers to alter 

scheduled maturity or repricing dates. Product embedded options 

include loan prepayment and deposit redemption privileges and 

committed rates on unadvanced mortgages. The net interest rate 

mismatch, representing residual assets funded by common share<

holders’ equity, is managed to a target duration, while product 

embedded options are managed to low risk levels. The net interest rate 

mismatch risk is primarily managed with interest rate swaps and secu<

rities. Product embedded option risk exposures are primarily managed 

through a dynamic hedging process or with purchased options. 
Structural foreign exchange risk arises primarily from translation 
risk related to the net investment in our U.S. operations and from trans<

action risk associated with our U.S.-dollar-denominated net income. 
Translation risk represents the impact changes in foreign exchange 
rates can have on BMO’s reported shareholders’ equity and capital 

ratios. When the Canadian dollar appreciates relative to the U.S. dollar, 

unrealized translation losses on our net investment in foreign oper<

ations, net of related hedging activities, are reported in other compre<

hensive income in shareholders’ equity. In addition, the Canadian dollar 

equivalent of U.S.-dollar-denominated RWA decreases. The reverse is 

true when the Canadian dollar depreciates relative to the U.S. dollar. 

Consequently, we may hedge our net investment in foreign operations 

to ensure translation risk does not materially impact our capital ratios. 
Transaction risk represents the impact on the Canadian dollar 
equivalent of BMO’s U.S.-dollar-denominated results that fluctuations in 

the Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate may have. Exchange rate 
fluctuations will affect future results measured in Canadian dollars and 

the impact on those results is a function of the periods in which rev<

enues, expenses and provisions for credit losses arise. Hedging trans<

actions may be executed to partially offset the pre-tax effects of 

Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuations. If future results are 

consistent with results in 2013, each one cent increase (decrease) in 

the Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rate would be expected to increase 

(decrease) adjusted net income before income taxes for the year by 

$15 million in the absence of hedging transactions. 
We use a variety of metrics to measure and manage interest rate 
risk. These include simulations, sensitivity analysis, stress testing and gap 

analysis in addition to other traditional risk metrics. The interest rate gap 

position is disclosed in Note 19 on page 161 of the financial statements. 
Structural interest rate sensitivity to an immediate parallel increase 
or decrease of 100 and 200 basis points in the yield curve is disclosed in 

the table below. This interest rate sensitivity analysis is performed and 

disclosed by many financial institutions and facilitates comparison with 

our peer group. Economic value interest rate sensitivity declined and 

earnings interest rate sensitivity increased from the prior year primarily 

due to higher short-term asset sensitivity. The asset-liability profile at 

the end of the year results in a structural earnings benefit from interest 

rate increases and structural earnings exposure to interest rate 

decreases. Structural Balance Sheet Interest Rate Sensitivity 
(1) ($ millions)* 
Canadian equivalent 
As at October 31, 2013 
As at October 31, 2012 
Economic value 12-month earnings 
Economic value 12-month earnings 
sensitivity sensitivity 
sensitivity sensitivity 
pre-tax after tax 
pre-tax after tax 
100 basis point increase 
(503.1) 95.4 
(537.6) 20.1 
100 basis point decrease 
340.1 (90.8) 
402.9 (74.6) 
200 basis point increase 
(1,078.8) 158.1 
(1,223.1) 27.2 
200 basis point decrease 
442.7 (113.7) 
783.6 (75.1) 
* Exposures are in brackets and benefits are represented by positive amounts. 
(1) Interest rate sensitivities associated with BMO’s insurance businesses are not reflected in the 
table above. For our insurance businesses, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates results in 

an increase in earnings after tax of $81 million and an increase in economic value before tax 

of $335 million ($94 million and $560 million, respectively, at October 31, 2012). A 100 basis 

point decrease in interest rates results in a decrease in earnings after tax of $66 million and a 

decrease in economic value before tax of $399 million ($74 million and $634 million, 

respectively, at October 31, 2012). The change in interest rate sensitivities from the prior 

year reflects the growth in the insurance business, lower interest rates and changes in 

investment mix. 
Models used to measure structural market risk project changes in 

interest rates and predict how customers would likely react to the 

changes. For customer loans and deposits with scheduled maturity and 

repricing dates (such as mortgages and term deposits), our models 

measure how customers are likely to use embedded options to alter 

those scheduled terms. For customer loans and deposits without sched<

uled maturity and repricing dates (such as credit card loans and 

chequing accounts), our models assume a maturity profile that considers 

historical and forecasted trends in changes in the balances due. These 

models have been developed using statistical analysis and are validated 

through regular model vetting, back-testing processes and ongoing 

dialogue with staff in the lines of business. Models used to predict 

customer behaviour are also used in support of product pricing and 

performance measurement. Stress testing is performed regularly to 

quantify the sensitivity of the structural market risk position to these 

behavioural assumptions. 
MD&A Material in blue-tinted font above is an integral part of the 2013 annual consolidated financial statements (see page 77). 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
91   MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Liquidity and Funding Risk; ;
Liquidity and funding risk 
is the potential for loss if BMO is unable 
to meet financial commitments in a timely manner at reasonable 
prices as they fall due. Financial commitments include liabilities to 

depositors and suppliers, and lending, investment and pledging 

commitments. Management Framework Overview 
Managing liquidity and funding risk is essential to maintaining the safety 

and soundness of the organization, depositor confidence and stability in 

earnings. It is BMO’s policy to ensure that sufficient liquid assets and 

funding capacity are available to meet financial commitments, even in 

times of stress. 
BMO’s Liquidity and Funding Risk Management Framework is 
defined and managed under Board-approved corporate policies and 

management-approved standards. These policies and standards outline 

key management principles, liquidity and funding management metrics 

and related limits and guidelines, as well as roles and responsibilities for 

the management of liquidity and funding risk across the enterprise. BMO 

has robust limits and guidelines in place to manage liquidity and funding 

risk. These limits and guidelines establish the secured and unsecured 

funding appetite for both trading and structural activities, maturity 

concentration tolerances, counterparty liability diversification require<

ments and pledging activity. Guidelines are also established for the size 

and type of uncommitted and committed credit and liquidity facilities 

that may be outstanding to ensure liquidity and funding risk is appropri<

ately managed. An enterprise-wide contingency plan that will facilitate 

effective management through a disruption is also in place. Early 

warning indicators identified in the contingency plan are regularly 

monitored to identify early signs of liquidity risk in the market or 

specific to BMO. 
The RRC oversees liquidity and funding risk and annually approves 
applicable policies, limits and the contingency plan, and regularly 

reviews liquidity and funding positions. The RMC and Balance Sheet and 

Capital Management Committee provide senior management oversight 

and also review and discuss significant liquidity and funding policies, 

issues and action items that arise in the execution of our strategy. The 

Corporate Treasury group recommends the framework, risk appetite, 

limits and guidelines, monitors compliance with policy requirements and 

assesses the impact of market events on liquidity requirements on an 

ongoing basis. 
BMO subsidiaries include regulated and foreign legal entities and 
branches, and therefore movements of funds between companies in the 

corporate group are subject to the liquidity, funding and capital 

adequacy considerations of the subsidiaries, as well as tax and regu<

latory considerations. As such, liquidity and funding positions are 

managed on both a consolidated and key legal entity basis. Liquidity 

and funding risk management policies and limits are in place for key 

legal entities that are informed by legal and regulatory requirements for 

each entity, and positions are regularly reviewed at the legal entity level 

to ensure compliance with applicable requirements. 
BMO employs fund transfer pricing and liquidity transfer pricing 
practices to ensure the appropriate economic signals are provided to the 

lines of business on the pricing of products for customers and to assess 

the performance of each business. These practices capture both the cost 

of funding assets and the value of deposits under normal operating 

conditions, as well as the cost of supplemental liquid assets held to 

support contingent liquidity requirements. 
Funding Strategy 
Our funding philosophy requires that secured and unsecured wholesale 

funding used to support loans and less liquid assets is longer term 

(typically maturing in two to ten years) to better match the term to 

maturity of these assets. Wholesale secured and unsecured funding for 

liquid trading assets is generally shorter term (maturing in one year or 

less) and is aligned with the liquidity of the assets being funded, subject 

to haircuts in order to reflect the potential for lower market values and 

liquidity during times of market stress, and subject to limits on 

aggregate maturities permitted across different time periods. Supple<

mental liquidity pools are funded with a mix of wholesale term funding. 
BMO maintains a large and stable base of customer deposits that, 
along with our strong capital base, is a source of strength. It supports 

the maintenance of a sound liquidity position and reduces our reliance 

on wholesale funding. Customer deposits include core deposits and 

larger retail and commercial fixed-rate customer deposits. Customer 

deposits totalled $220.3 billion at the end of the year, up from 

$203.5 billion in 2012. BMO also receives deposits to facilitate certain 

trading activities, receives non-marketable deposits from corporate and 

institutional customers and issues structured notes primarily to retail 

investors. These deposits totalled $43.3 billion as at October 31, 2013. 
2011 2012
20102009 Customer Deposits-and<Capital-to-Total-Loans 
Ratio 
(%) Customer Deposits 
($ billions) 
Core deposits Larger fixed-dated deposits* Our large customer base and strong capital position reduce our 
reliance on wholesale funding. Customer deposits provide a 

strong funding base. 
2009 20132012201120102013 *Excluding wholesale customer deposits. 22.5 17.5 17.1 12.8 125.3 135.3 177.3 190.7 96.5 94.6 91.9 106.6 104.1 2010 and prior based on CGAAP. 15.4 204.9 Total wholesale funding outstanding, consisting of negotiable 
marketable securities, was $128.4 billion at October 31, 2013, with 
$32.7 billion sourced as secured funding and $95.7 billion sourced as 

unsecured funding. The mix and maturities of BMO’s wholesale term 

funding are outlined in the table below. Additional information on 

deposit maturities can be found in Note 30 on page 185. 
BMO maintains a sizeable portfolio of unencumbered liquid assets 
of $160.6 billion as of October 31, 2013, that can be monetized to 

meet potential funding requirements, as described in the Liquid Assets 

section below. 
Diversification of our wholesale funding sources is an important part 
of our overall liquidity management strategy. BMO’s wholesale funding 

activities are well diversified by jurisdiction, currency, investor segment, 

instrument and maturity profile. BMO maintains ready access to long<

term wholesale funding through various borrowing programs, including 
Material in blue-tinted font above is an integral part of the 2013 annual consolidated financial statements (see page 77). 
92 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
a European Note Issuance Program, Canadian and U.S. Medium-Term 
Note Programs, Canadian and U.S. mortgage securitizations, Canadian 

credit card securitizations, covered bonds and Canadian and U.S. senior 

(unsecured) deposits. 
BMO’s wholesale funding plan ensures sufficient funding capacity is 
available to execute business strategies. The funding plan incorporates 
Wholesale Funding Maturities 
(1) ($ millions) 
As at October 31, 2013 
Unsecured (original term under 2 years) 
Unsecured (original term 2 years or greater) 
Total Unsecured 
(2) Less than 1 month 
12,093 24,435 8,998 8,725 54,251 
215 845 1,816 749 3,625 
12,308 25,280 10,814 9,474 57,876 
394 – – 54,645 
9,304 22,416 5,694 41,039 
9,698 22,416 5,694 95,684 
Secured (original term 2 years or greater) 
Mortgage securitizations 

Covered bonds 

Credit card securitizations 

FHLB* advances 
Total Secured 

Total 712 1,409 945 318 3,384 
– – – 2,086 2,086 
500 – – – 500 
– – – – – 
1,212 1,409 945 2,404 5,970 
13,520 26,689 11,759 11,878 63,846 
2,445 7,552 4,754 18,135 
2,085 3,649 – 7,820 
– 3,763 – 4,263 
– 2,477 – 2,477 
4,530 17,441 4,754 32,695 
14,228 39,857 10,448 128,379 
expected maturities and stress testing results, asset and liability growth 
projected from our businesses through our forecasting and planning 

process, and assesses funding needs against available potential sources. 

The funding plan is regularly updated throughout the year to incorporate 

actual results and updated forecast information. 
Subtotal Less 1to 3 
3to 6 
6to 12 
than 1to 
2to 
Over months months months 1 year 
2 years 
5 years 
5 years 
Total MD&A * Federal Home Loan Banks. 
(1) Wholesale funding excludes repo transactions and bankers acceptances, which are disclosed in the contractual maturity table in Note 30 of the financial statements, and capital transactions, which are 

disclosed in Notes 17, 18 and 20 of the financial statements. 
(2) Unsecured funding refers to funding through issuance of marketable, negotiable securities. Structured notes, which are predominantly retail i
n nature, are not included. 
(3) Total wholesale funding consists of Canadian-dollar-denominated funds of $51.9 billion and $76.4 billion of funds denominated in U.S. dollars a
nd other foreign currencies as at October 31, 2013. 
Liquidity Risk Management 
A key component of the liquidity risk framework is the measurement of 

liquidity and liquidity risk under stress. BMO uses the Net Liquidity Posi<

tion (NLP) as a key measure of liquidity risk. The NLP represents the 

amount by which liquid assets exceed potential funding needs under a 

severe combined enterprise-specific and systemic stress scenario. Poten<

tial funding needs may arise from obligations to repay retail, commercial 

and wholesale deposits that are withdrawn or not renewed, fund 

drawdowns on available credit and liquidity lines, purchase collateral for 

pledging due to ratings downgrades or as a result of market volatility, as 

well as fund asset growth and strategic investments. Potential funding 

needs are quantified by applying factors to various business activities 

based on management’s view of the relative liquidity risk of each activ<

ity. These factors vary depending on depositor classification (e.g., retail, 

small business, non-financial corporate and wholesale counterparties) 

and deposit type (e.g., insured, uninsured, operational and non<

operational deposits) and by commitment type (e.g., uncommitted and 

committed credit or liquidity facilities by counterparty type). These 

funding needs are assessed under severely stressed systemic and 

enterprise-specific scenarios and a combination thereof. BMO targets to 

maintain a net liquidity position sufficient to withstand each scenario. 

Stress testing results are compared against BMO’s stated risk tolerance, 

considered in management decisions on limit or guideline setting and 

internal liquidity transfer pricing, and help to shape the design of 

management plans and contingency plans. The liquidity and funding risk 

framework is also linked with enterprise-wide stress testing, including 

the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. 
Liquid Assets Liquid assets include unencumbered, high-quality assets that are market<

able, can be pledged as security for borrowings, and can be converted to 

cash in a time frame that meets our liquidity and funding requirements. 

Liquid assets are primarily held in our trading businesses, and in 

supplemental liquidity pools that are maintained for contingent liquidity 

risk management purposes. The amount of liquidity recognized for 
different asset classes under our management framework is subject to 

reductions reflecting management’s view of the liquidity value of those 

assets in a stress scenario. Liquid assets in the trading business include 

cash on deposit with central banks and short-term deposits with other 

financial institutions, highly-rated debt and equity securities and short-

term reverse repurchase agreements. With the exception of certain 

equities, a large majority of trading assets qualify as liquid assets under 

Basel III. These equity holdings are largely hedged and can be liquidated 

in a crisis or if otherwise desired. Supplemental liquidity pool assets are 

predominantly comprised of cash on deposit with central banks and 

securities and short-term reverse repurchase agreements of highly rated 

Canadian federal and provincial and U.S. federal government and agency 

debt. Substantially all supplemental liquidity pool assets meet the defi<

nition of liquid assets under Basel III. Trading liquid assets are held in 

the parent bank, BMO Harris Bank and BMO’s broker/dealer operations 

in Canada and internationally. Approximately 75% of the supplemental 

liquidity pool is held at the parent bank level in Canadian-and U.S.<

dollar-denominated assets, with the residual supplemental liquidity pool 

contained in BMO Harris Bank in U.S.-dollar-denominated assets that 

may be subject to regulatory up-streaming restrictions. The size of the 

supplemental liquidity pool is calibrated to meet the potential funding 

needs outside of our trading businesses in each of the parent bank and 

BMO Harris Bank and achieve BMO’s target NLP in each entity. To meet 

local regulatory requirements, certain of our legal entities maintain their 

own minimum liquidity positions that meet overall regulatory require<

ments. There may be legal and regulatory restrictions on our ability to 

use liquid assets in one legal entity to support liquidity requirements in 

another legal entity. 
In the ordinary course of day-to-day activities, BMO may encumber 
a portion of cash and securities holdings as collateral to support trading 

activities and participation in clearing and payment systems in Canada 

and abroad. In addition, BMO may receive liquid assets as collateral and 

may re-pledge these assets in exchange for cash or as collateral for 

trading activities. Net unencumbered liquid assets, defined as 

on-balance sheet assets such as BMO-owned cash and securities and 
Material in blue-tinted font above is an integral part of the 2013 annual consolidated financial statements (see page 77). 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
93 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements plus other 
off-balance sheet eligible collateral received less collateral encumbered, 

totalled $160.6 billion at October 31, 2013. BMO may also pledge other 

assets, including mortgages and loans, to raise long-term secured fund<

ing. As part of the Liquidity and Funding Risk Management Framework, a 
Pledging of Assets corporate policy is in place that sets out the frame<

work and pledging limits for financial and non-financial assets. 
See Table 5 on page 107 for more information on BMO’s liquid 
assets, encumbered assets and net unencumbered assets. See Note 28 

on page 177 of the financial statements for further information on 

pledged assets. BMO’s cash and securities as a percentage of total 

assets were 31.2% at October 31, 2013, compared with 29.4% at 

October 31, 2012. 
Regulatory Developments In January 2012, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) 

published final guidance on the LCR. The LCR is the ratio of the stock of 

high-quality liquid assets to stressed net cash outflows over a 30-day 

time period under a specified regulatory scenario. In addition to the LCR, 

the final guidance also sets out a suite of liquidity monitoring metrics 

(e.g., contractual maturity mismatch, concentration of funding, available 

unencumbered assets, LCR by significant currency and market-related 

monitoring tools) to aid supervisors in the assessment of the liquidity 

risk of an institution. Our expectation is that OSFI will provide guidance 

on the domestic implementation of these measures in 2014. 
MD&A The Basel committee also has announced that they are working on 
finalizing the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). The NSFR is the ratio of 

the available amount of stable funding (one-year or greater) to the 

required amount of stable funding. Additional guidance on the measure 

is expected to be provided in 2014. BMO believes it is well positioned to 

meet these regulatory requirements. 
Credit Ratings 
The credit ratings assigned to BMO’s short-term and senior long-term 

debt securities by external rating agencies are important in the raising 

of both capital and funding to support our business operations. 

Maintaining strong credit ratings allows us to access the capital markets 

at competitive pricing levels. BMO’s ratings are indicative of high-grade, 

high-quality issues. Should our credit ratings experience a material 

downgrade, our cost of funds would likely increase significantly and our 

access to funding and capital through capital markets could be reduced. 

A material downgrade of our ratings could have additional con<

sequences, including those set out in Note 10 on page 147 of the finan<

cial statements. 
As at October 31, 2013 
Senior long-Subordinated Rating agency 
Short-term debt 
term debt 
debt Outlook Moody’s P-1 Aa3 A3 Stable S&P A-1 A+ BBB+ Stable Fitch F1+ AA<A+ Stable DBRS R-1 (high) 
AA AA (low) 
Stable Operational Risk 
Operational risk 
is the potential for loss resulting from inadequate 
or failed internal processes or systems, human interactions or 

external events, but excludes business risk. 
BMO is exposed to potential losses arising from a variety of operational 

risks, including process failure, theft and fraud, regulatory non<

compliance, business disruption, information security breaches and 

exposure related to outsourcing, as well as damage to physical assets. 

Operational risk is inherent in all our business activities, including the 

processes and controls used to manage credit risk, market risk and all 

other risks we face. While operational risk can never be fully eliminated, 

it can be managed to reduce exposure to financial loss, reputational 

harm or regulatory sanctions. 
The three-lines-of-defence operating model establishes appropriate 
accountability for operational risk management. The operating groups 

are responsible for the day-to-day management of operational risk in a 

manner consistent with our enterprise-wide principles. Independent risk 

management oversight is provided by operating group CROs, group 

Operational Risk Officers, Corporate Support areas and Enterprise Opera<

tional Risk Management. Operating group CROs and Operational Risk 

Officers independently assess group operational risk profiles, identify 

material exposures and potential weaknesses in controls, and recom<

mend appropriate mitigation strategies and actions. Corporate Support 

areas develop the tools and processes to directly manage specialized 

operational risks across the organization. Enterprise Operational Risk 

Management establishes the Operational Risk Management Framework 

and the necessary governance framework. 
Operational Risk Management Framework (ORMF) 
The ORMF defines the processes we use to identify, measure, manage, 

mitigate, monitor and report key operational risk exposures. A primary 

objective of the ORMF is to ensure that our operational risk profile is 

consistent with our risk appetite and supported by adequate capital. 
Executing our ORMF strategy also requires us to focus on change 

management and working to achieve a cultural shift toward greater 

awareness and understanding of operational risk through training, 

recruitment and retention of the best talent and through communica<

tion. The key programs, methodologies and processes we have devel<

oped to support the framework are highlighted below. 
Governance Operational risk management is governed by a robust committee struc<

ture supported by a comprehensive set of policies, standards and 

operating guidelines. The Operational Risk Committee (ORC), a sub<

committee of the RMC, is the main decision-making committee for all 

operational risk management matters and has responsibility for the 

oversight of operational risk strategy, management and governance. 

ORC provides advice and guidance to the lines of business on opera<

tional risk assessments, measurement and mitigation, and related 

monitoring of change initiatives. ORC also oversees the development of 

policies, standards and operating guidelines that give effect to the 

governing principles of the ORMF. These governance documents 

incorporate industry best practices and are reviewed on a regular basis 

to ensure they are current and consistent with our risk appetite. We 

continue to enhance governance by increasing the number of Corporate 

Support areas that can provide additional oversight for specific opera<

tional sub-risks. 
Risk and Control Assessment (RCA) 
RCA is an established process used by our operating groups to identify 

the key risks associated with their businesses and the controls required 

for risk mitigation. The RCA process provides a forward-looking view of 

the impact of the business environment and internal controls on 

operating group risk profiles, enabling the proactive management, 

mitigation and prevention of risk. On an aggregate basis, RCA results 

also provide an enterprise-level view of operational risks relative to risk 

appetite, to ensure all key risks are adequately managed and mitigated. 
Material in blue-tinted font above is an integral part of the 2013 annual consolidated financial statements (see page 77). 
94 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Process Risk Assessment (PRA) 
The PRA provides a deeper focus on identifying key risks and controls in 

specific business processes. The PRA enables a greater understanding of 

our key processes to facilitate more effective oversight and to ensure 

risks are appropriately mitigated. 
Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) 
KRIs provide an early indication of any adverse changes in risk exposure. 

Operating groups and Corporate Support areas identify metrics related to 

their material risks. These KRIs are used to monitor operational risk 

profiles and their overall relation to our risk appetite and are linked to 

thresholds that trigger management action. 
Event Data Collection and Analysis 
Internal loss data serves as an important means of assessing our opera<

tional risk exposure and identifying opportunities for future risk pre<

vention measures. Under this process, internal loss data is analyzed and 

benchmarked against external data. Material trends are regularly 

reported to the ORC, RMC and board RRC committees to ensure pre<

ventative and corrective action can be taken where appropriate. BMO is 

a member of the Operational Riskdata eXchange Association and the 

American Bankers Association, international and national associations of 

banks, respectively, that share loss data information anonymously to 

assist in risk identification, assessment and modelling. 
Capital Quantification 
BMO uses The Standardized Approach (TSA) to determine Basel II regulatory 

capital requirements for operational risk. We have implemented TSA proc<

esses and capital measures at both the consolidated enterprise and appli<

cable legal entity levels. BMO has also developed a risk-sensitive capital 

model that is compliant with the Basel II Advanced Measurement Approach 

(AMA) requirements and can calculate AMA capital in parallel with TSA 

capital. BMO is currently moving ahead with its AMA application, consistent 

with regulatory guidelines and expectations. 
Stress Testing and Scenario Analysis 

Stress testing measures the potential impact of plausible operational, 

economic, market and credit events on our operations and capital. 

Scenario analysis provides management with a better understanding of 

low-frequency, high-severity events and assesses enterprise prepared<

ness for events that could create risks that exceed our risk appetite. 

Under the AMA, we use scenario analysis for stress testing, to manage 

tail risk exposure to such events and to validate operational risk 

capital adequacy. 
Reporting Regular analysis and reporting of our enterprise operational risk profile 

to the ORC, RMC and RRC committees are important elements of our 

ORMF. A critical aspect of this reporting is the quality of our underlying 

sources and systems. Timely and comprehensive operational risk 

reporting enhances risk transparency and facilitates the proactive 

management of material and emerging operational risk exposures. 
Training BMO’s operational risk management training program ensures 

employees are qualified and equipped to execute the ORMF strategy 

consistently, effectively and efficiently. 
Business Continuity Management 
Effective business continuity management ensures that we have the 

capability to sustain, manage and recover critical operations and proc<

esses in the event of a business disruption, thereby minimizing any 

adverse effects on our customers and other stakeholders. 
Corporate Insurance Program 
BMO’s Corporate Risk & Insurance team provides a second level of 

mitigation for certain operational risk exposures. We purchase insurance 

in amounts that are expected to provide adequate protection against 

unexpected material loss and where insurance is required by law, regu<

lation or contractual agreement. 
MD&A Insurance Risk 
Insurance risk 
is the risk of loss due to actual experience being 
different from that assumed when an insurance product was 

designed and priced. It generally entails inherent unpredictability 

that can arise from assuming long-term policy liabilities or from the 

uncertainty of future events. Insurance risk exists in all our insurance 

products, including annuities and life, accident and sickness, and 

creditor insurance, as well as in our reinsurance business. 
Insurance risk consists of: 
‰Claims risk – The risk that the actual magnitude or frequency of claims 

will differ from the levels assumed in the pricing or underwriting 

process, including risks such as mortality risk, morbidity risk, longevity 

risk and catastrophe risk; 
‰Policyholder behaviour risk – The risk that the behaviour of policy<

holders relating to premium payments, withdrawals or loans, policy 

lapses and surrenders and other voluntary terminations will differ 

from the behaviour assumed in the pricing calculations; and 
‰Expense risk – The risk that actual expenses associated with acquiring 
and administering policies and claims processing will exceed the 

expenses assumed in the pricing calculations. 
Insurance risk approval authority is delegated by BMO’s Board of Direc<
tors to senior management. A robust product approval process is a 

cornerstone for identifying, assessing and mitigating risks associated 

with new insurance products or changes to existing products. This proc<

ess, combined with guidelines and practices for underwriting and claims 

management, promotes the effective identification, measurement and 
management of insurance risk. Reinsurance, which involves transactions 

that transfer insurance risk to independent reinsurance companies, is 

also used to manage our exposure to insurance risk by diversifying risk 

and limiting claims. 
Insurance risk is monitored on a regular basis. Actuarial liabilities are 
estimates of the amounts required to meet insurance obligations. Liabilities 

are established in accordance with the standards of practice of the Canadian 

Institute of Actuaries and the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants. 

The liabilities are validated through extensive internal and external reviews 

and audits. Assumptions underlying actuarial liabilities are regularly 

updated to reflect emerging actual experience. The Appointed Actuaries of 

our insurance subsidiaries are appointed by those subsidiaries’ boards of 

directors and have statutory responsibility for providing opinions on the 

adequacy of provisions for the policyholder liabilities, the solvency of the 

insurance companies and fairness of treatment of participating policy<

holders. In addition, the work of each Appointed Actuary is subject to an 

external, independent review by a qualified actuary every three years, in 

accordance with OSFI Guideline E-15. 
BMO’s Board of Directors establishes approval authorities and limits 
and delegates these to the management teams of the insurance sub<

sidiaries. The boards of directors of our insurance subsidiaries are 

responsible for the stewardship of their respective insurance companies. 

Through oversight and monitoring, the boards are responsible for 

determining that the insurance companies are managed and function in 

accordance with established insurance strategies and policies. ERPM is 

responsible for providing risk management direction and independent 

oversight to these insurance companies. This group also has the 

authority to approve activities that exceed the authorities and limits 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
95   MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
delegated to the boards of the insurance subsidiaries, or that expose 
risks facing the insurance subsidiaries, which include top-line and 
BMO to significant risk. 
emerging risks, as well as key risk indicators. A comprehensive risk 
Our insurance subsidiaries provide independent evaluation and 
review process is in place to identify the key risks associated with 
reporting of risk exposures to their boards of directors and at the enter-
insurance operations and products, as well as the controls required for 
prise level, including reporting to both management of Wealth 
risk mitigation. 
Management and the RRC. Reporting involves an assessment of all 
MD&A Legal and Regulatory Risk 
Legal and regulatory risk 
is the risk of not complying with laws, 
contractual undertakings or other legal requirements, as well as 
regulatory requirements and regulators’ expectations. Failure to 

properly manage legal and regulatory risk may result in litigation, 

financial losses, regulatory sanctions, an inability to execute our 

business strategies and harm to our reputation. 
BMO’s success also relies on our ability to manage prudently our 

exposure to judgments, fines or losses arising from the risk of not 

complying with laws, contractual undertakings, or meeting regulatory 

requirements or regulator expectations. Fiduciary risk relating to BMO’s 

businesses providing products or services that give rise to fiduciary 

duties to clients is another area of focus for legal and compliance 

management and operating groups’ risk committees. Of particular 

importance are the policies and practices that address a business’ 

responsibilities to a client, including service requirements and expect<

ations, client suitability determinations, and disclosure obligations and 

communications. Failure to properly manage these risks may result in 

harm to our reputation, cause a decline in investor confidence, and 

affect our ability to execute our business strategies. 
Under the direction of the General Counsel, Legal and Compliance 
Group (LCG) maintains enterprise-wide frameworks to identify, measure, 

manage, monitor and report on legal (including fiduciary) and regulatory 

risk. These frameworks reflect the three lines-of-defence operating 

model described previously. The operating groups and Corporate Support 

areas must manage day-to-day risks in compliance with policies while 

LCG teams specifically aligned to designated operating groups provide 

advice and independent legal and regulatory risk management oversight. 
LCG also works with operating groups and Corporate Support areas to 

identify legal and regulatory requirements and potential risks, recom<

mend mitigation strategies and actions, and oversee litigation 

involving BMO. 
The General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) regularly 
report to the Audit and Conduct Review Committee of the board and to 

senior management on the effectiveness of our Enterprise Compliance 

Program (ECP) which, using a risk-based approach, identifies, assesses 

and manages legal and regulatory requirements. The ECP requires that 

operating groups and Corporate Support areas maintain compliance 

policies, procedures and controls to meet these requirements. Under the 

direction of the CCO, LCG identifies gaps and deficiencies and tracks 

remedial action plans. 
BMO’s code of conduct, 
FirstPrinciples, outlines our commitment to 
high standards of ethics and integrity, and requires that each employee 

take responsibility to follow both the letter and the spirit of the law. All 

directors and employees annually acknowledge their commitment to 

FirstPrinciples, and take required training that tests their knowledge and 

understanding of the code. This annual training also includes other 

important legal and regulatory subjects, including anti-money launder<

ing, privacy and anti-corruption practices. 
The financial services industry is highly regulated and continues to 
receive heightened attention under worldwide regulatory reform ini<

tiatives. BMO has experienced a significant increase in regulation and 

supervision, and such changes could have a significant impact on how 

we conduct business. LCG continues to work diligently in assessing and 

understanding the implications of these regulatory changes, and devotes 

substantial resources to implementing new regulations while helping the 

operating groups meet the needs and demands of BMO’s clients. 
Business Risk 
Business risk 
arises from the specific business activities of a 
company and the effects these could have on its earnings. 
Business risk encompasses the potential causes of earnings volatility 

that are distinct from credit, market or operational risk factors. The 

management of business risk identifies and addresses factors related 

to the risk that volumes will decrease or margins will shrink without 

the company having the ability to compensate for this decline by 

cutting costs. 
BMO faces many risks that are similar to those faced by non-
financial firms, principally that our profitability, and hence value, may be 

eroded by changes in the business environment or by failures of 

strategy or execution. Sources of these risks include, but are not limited 

to, changing client expectations, adverse business developments and 

relatively ineffective responses to industry changes. 
Within BMO, each operating group is responsible for controlling its 
respective business risk by assessing, managing and mitigating the risks 

arising from changes in business volumes and cost structures, among 

other factors. Model Risk 
Model risk 
is the potential for loss due to the risk that a model may 
not perform or capture risk as designed. It also arises from the 

possibility of the use of an inappropriate model or the inappropriate 

use of a model. 
BMO uses models that range from the very simple to those that value 

complex transactions or involve sophisticated portfolio and capital 

management methodologies. These models are used to inform strategic 

decision-making and to assist in making daily lending, trading, under<
96 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
writing, funding, investment and operational decisions. Models have also 

been developed to measure exposure to specific risks and to measure total 

risk on an integrated basis, using Economic Capital. We have strong controls 

over the development, implementation and application of these models. 
BMO uses a variety of models, which can be grouped within 
six categories: 
‰ valuation models for the valuation of assets, liabilities or reserves; 
‰ risk exposure models for measuring credit risk, market risk, liquidity 

risk and operational risk, which also address expected loss and? ?

its applications;? ?
  
 
 ‰ capital and stress testing models for measuring capital, allocating 
capital and managing regulatory capital and Economic Capital; 
‰ fiduciary models for asset allocation, asset optimization and portfolio 

management; ‰ major business strategy models to forecast the possible outcomes of 

new strategies in support of our business decision-making process; and 
‰ models driven by regulatory and other stakeholder requirements. 
Model Risk is governed by the enterprise-wide Model Risk Manage<
ment Framework, which sets out end-to-end risk governance across the 

model activity cycle and ensures consistency between model risk and 

enterprise-wide risk appetite. The framework outlines explicit principles 

for managing model risk, describes processes and clearly defines roles 

and responsibilities. The Model Risk Corporate Standard, outlines the 

requirements for the oversight, identification, development, 

independent validation, implementation, use, monitoring and reporting 

of models and model risk throughout the enterprise. Prior to use, all 

models must receive approval and an assessment of their model risk by 

the Model Risk and Vetting (MRV) group. All models are assigned a risk 

rating as part of the vetting process, which determines the frequency of 

ongoing review. In addition to regularly scheduled model validation and 

vetting, model risk monitoring and oversight activities are in place to 

confirm that models perform and are managed and used as expected, 

thereby increasing the likelihood of early detection of emerging issues. 
The Model Risk Management Forum, a cross-functional group repre<
senting all key stakeholders (model users, model owners and the MRV 

group), meets regularly to provide input into the development, 

implementation and maintenance of the Model Risk Management 

Framework and the requirements governing all models that are used 

across the enterprise. 
BMO’S Risk Rating System Framework 
The Risk Rating System framework utilized by BMO encompasses 

various methods, processes, controls, data collection and technology to 

support the assessment of credit risk of exposures. This framework also 

includes the assignment of the following credit risk parameters: Proba<

bility of Default (PD), Loss Given Default (LGD) and Exposure at Default 

(EAD), which are used for Regulatory Capital and Economic Capital 

estimation. The principles underlying the Risk Rating System are gov<

erned by internal policies and standards. 
The design and quantification of models and methodologies to 
establish credit risk measures is a centralized function. An independent 

validation group reviews, validates and approves these models and 

methodologies prior to their implementation. 
Ongoing monitoring of model performance, targeted model 
reviews, annual validations and related reporting processes ensure that 

the models and methodologies continue to perform as intended, and 

that any material changes in operating environment, business strategy 

that leads to portfolio shifts, or economic environment trigger appro<

priate and timely action. These processes are key to ensuring that BMO’s 

risk rating systems continue to assign risk parameters that accurately 

reflect credit risks in our various portfolios. 
We employ risk rating systems for our retail portfolios (consumer 
and small business) and wholesale portfolios (corporate, commercial, 

bank and sovereign). 
Retail Risk Rating System 
Retail Risk Rating System uses an approach that rates the borrower’s 

risk on a narrow range of likely expected conditions, primarily more 

recent in nature (e.g. delinquency, loan to value ratio, utilization rate, 

etc.). Product lines within each of the three retail risk categories 

— mortgage, qualifying revolving, and other retail exposures — are 
separately modelled so the risk drivers capture the distinct nature of 

each product. The final segmentation scheme categorizes each exposure 

within a product line into homogeneous pools of retail risk that reflect 

common borrower risk drivers. Accordingly, each risk segment is then 
assigned a unique combination of PD, LGD and EAD parameters, 

capturing the segment-specific credit risk. 
The retail risk rating system is designed to estimate values of credit 
risk parameters as precisely and accurately as possible. However, the 

risk parameter estimates are subject to uncertainty. In order to embed a 

level of conservatism to portfolio performance projections, adjustments 

are added to each parameter estimate at the segment level during the 

calibration process. Additionally, the retail parameters are calibrated on 

an annual basis to incorporate additional data points in the parameter 

estimation process. This ensures that the most recent experience is 

incorporated into the parameter assessment process. 
Parameter Modelling Details (all are expressed as percentages, 
between 0% and 100%) 
PD: assigned to each borrower and reflects default risk over a one-year 
time horizon. The PD parameter is calibrated based on BMO’s internal 

default data from the period 2003 to 2012 and is meant to reflect long-

run average default rates. 
LGD: assigned to each credit exposure extended to a borrower and 
measures the potential economic loss at default during downturn con<
ditions. The LGD parameter is calibrated based on internal loss data from 

2003 to 2011, including a specific “downturn” buffer that incorporates 

the potential impact of PD and LGD correlation, and floored to the 

maximum realized loss given default rate. 
EAD: assigned to each exposure extended to a borrower and measures 
the amount of a credit exposure that is likely to be drawn in the event 
the borrower defaults. This EAD amount is derived from the EAD ratio (or 

utilization given default) parameter and is based on BMO’s internal 

realized loss data from 2003 to 2012. The EAD ratio parameter is cali<

brated with a long-run view, based on the average of historical realized 

utilization given default rates, with a margin of conservatism added for 

sources of uncertainty and to ensure the predicted EAD amount is 

greater than the maximum historical realized EAD amount. 
Wholesale Risk Rating System 
Wholesale Risk Rating system covers the assessment of credit risk of 

borrowers in non-retail asset classes (corporate, bank, and sovereign). 

Relative to Retail portfolio, Wholesale portfolio is characterized by a 

smaller number of larger exposures that cover a range of industries. Risk 

characteristics of these borrowers are captured by developing industry-

specific risk rating models, and LGD and EAD modelling focuses on 

capturing the key risk drivers of individual facility types extended to 

these borrowers. Further details on each are provided below. 
Parameter Modelling Details (all are expressed as percentages, 
between 0% and 100%) 
PD: assigned to each borrower based on its risk rating and the asset 
class and reflects default risk over a one-year time horizon. 
Risk ratings are assigned using the appropriate internal model. A 
suite of general and sector-specific risk rating models have been devel<

oped within each asset class to capture the key quantitative and qual<

itative risk factors associated with borrowers in different industries and 

portfolios. Borrower risk rating grades (BRRs) are assessed and assigned 

at loan inception and reviewed at least annually. More frequent reviews 

are performed for higher risk-rated borrowers, accounts that trigger a 

review through a rating change or that experience covenant breaches, 

and accounts requiring or requesting changes to facilities. 
BMO employs a Master Scale with 14 BRRs, and for each grade 
within each asset class, grade PDs are assigned to reflect the long-run 

average of one-year default rates. PD estimates are based on internal 

default experience over a period of more than five years that covers at 

least one full economic cycle, supplemented by external benchmarking, 

as applicable. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
97 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
LGD: assigned to each credit facility extended to a borrower and meas<
ures the potential economic loss at default during downturn conditions. 
LGD models are based on realized losses and calibrated to account for 

potential downturn conditions (with an added margin-of-conservatism 

adjustment for data uncertainty where necessary). LGD models have 

been developed for each asset class using internal data that covers a 

period of more than seven years (2000 to 2011), captures a full 

economic cycle and is supplemented by external data, as needed. 
EAD: assigned to each facility extended to a borrower and measures the 
amount of a credit facility that is likely to be drawn in the event the 
borrower defaults within the next 12 months assuming downturn con<

ditions. EAD is modelled using internal data that covers a period of more 

than seven years (2000 to 2010) and captures a full economic cycle. The 

EAD models are then calibrated to reflect downturn conditions based on 

the average of historical realized drawn-down amounts over downturn 

periods with a margin-of-conservatism adjustment for data uncertainty 

where necessary. 
MD&A Model Back-testing 

Back-testing requirements are governed under comprehensive Vali<

dation Guidelines. For probability of default, back-testing entails 

comparing the rating system’s mapped probabilities of default against 

actual or realized default rates for each of the obligor ratings, and 

testing for statistical evidence that the realized default rates represent 

sampling variability and not different populations of default data. Back-

testing the effectiveness of a risk rating system can be measured 

through the evaluation of calibration and discriminatory power with 

support from migration analysis. A comprehensive validation includes 

various prescribed tests and analyses that measure discriminatory 

power, calibration and dynamic properties. Additional tests or analyses 

may be used to validate BRR/PDs. As with any analysis, judgment can 

be applied in determining potentially limiting factors, such as data limi<

tations, which may impact the overall relevance of validation 

approaches and/or interpretation of statistical analysis. For loss given 

default, back-testing follows similar testing requirements. Annual vali<

dations are performed independently by the Model Risk Vetting group. 
Strategic Risk 
Strategic risk 
is the potential for loss due to fluctuations in the 
external business environment and/or failure to properly respond to 

these fluctuations due to inaction, ineffective strategies or poor 

implementation of strategies. 
Strategic risk arises from external risks inherent in the business environ<

ment within which BMO operates, as well as the risk of potential loss if 

BMO is unable to address those external risks effectively. While external 

strategic risks – including economic, political, regulatory, technological, 

social and competitive risks – cannot be controlled, the likelihood and 

magnitude of their impact can be mitigated through an effective 

strategic risk management process. 
BMO’s Strategy Group oversees our strategic planning processes 
and works with the lines of business, along with risk, finance and other 

corporate areas, to identify, monitor and mitigate strategic risk across 

the enterprise. A rigorous strategic management process encourages a 

consistent approach to the development of strategies and incorporates 

financial information linked to financial commitments. 
The Strategy Group works with the lines of business and key corpo<
rate stakeholders during the strategy development process to promote 

consistency and adherence to strategic management standards. The 

potential impacts of the changing business environment, such as broad 

industry trends and the actions of competitors, are considered as part of 

this process and inform strategic decisions within each of our lines of 

business. Enterprise and group strategies are reviewed with the 

Management Committee and the Board of Directors annually in inter<

active sessions designed to challenge assumptions and strategies in the 

context of current and potential future business environments. 
Performance objectives established through the strategic manage<
ment process are regularly monitored and are reported upon quarterly, 

using both leading and lagging indicators of performance, so that strat<

egies can be reviewed and adjusted where necessary. Regular strategic 

and financial updates are also monitored closely to identify any sig<

nificant issues. 
Reputation Risk Reputation risk 
is the risk of a negative impact to BMO that results 
from the deterioration of BMO’s reputation. Potential negative 

impacts include revenue loss, decline in client loyalty, litigation, regu<

latory sanction or additional oversight or decline in BMO’s share price. 
BMO’s reputation is one of its most valuable assets. By protecting and 

maintaining our reputation, we can increase shareholder value, reduce 

our cost of capital and improve employee engagement. 
Fostering a business culture in which integrity and ethical conduct 
are core values is key to effectively protecting and maintaining 

BMO’s reputation. 
We believe that active, ongoing and effective management of 
reputation risk is best achieved by considering reputation risk issues in 

the course of strategy development, strategic and operational 

implementation, and transactional or initiative decision-making. Reputa<

tion risk is also managed through our corporate governance practices, 

code of conduct and risk management framework. 
All employees are responsible for conducting themselves in accord<
ance with 
FirstPrinciples, BMO’s code of conduct, thus building and 
maintaining BMO’s reputation. The Reputation Risk Management 

Committee reviews significant or heightened issues of reputation risk to 

BMO, including those that may arise from complex credit or structured-

finance transactions. 
98 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Environmental and Social Risk 
Environmental and social risk 
is the risk of loss or damage to 
BMO’s reputation resulting from environmental and social concerns 
related to BMO or its customers. Environmental and social risk is 

often associated with credit, operational and reputation risk. 
Environmental and social risk is addressed in our board-approved corpo<

rate responsibility and sustainability policy. Environmental and social risk 

management activities are overseen by the Environmental, Social and 

Governance (ESG) group and the Environmental Sustainability group, 

with support from our lines of business and other Corporate Support 

areas. BMO’s Sustainability Council, which is comprised of executives 

representing the various areas of the organization, provides insight and 

guidance for our environmental and social initiatives. 
As part of our enterprise risk management framework, we evaluate 
the environmental and social impact of our clients’ operations, as well as 

their industry sectors. Environmental and social risk covers a broad spec<

trum of issues, such as climate change, biodiversity and ecosystem health, 

pollution, waste and the unsustainable use of water and resources, as 

well as risks to the livelihoods, health and rights of communities and their 

cultural heritage. We work with external stakeholders to understand the 

impact of our operations and financing decisions in the context of these 

issues, and we use this understanding to determine the consequences for 

our businesses. BMO has developed and implemented specific financing 

guidelines on environmental and social risk for specific lines of business. 

Environmental and social risks associated with lending transactions are 
managed within BMO’s credit and counterparty risk framework. Enhanced 

due diligence is applied to transactions with clients operating in environ<

mentally sensitive industry sectors. 
BMO is a signatory to the Equator Principles, a voluntary credit risk 
management framework for determining, assessing and managing 

environmental and social risk in project finance transactions. These 

principles have been integrated into our credit risk framework. We are 

also a signatory to and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, 

which provides corporate disclosure on greenhouse gas emissions and 

climate change management. 
In 2013, BMO implemented ESG training for BMO Capital Markets 
employees to ensure that there is consistency in the understanding of 

environmental and social risks across the enterprise. The training 

includes identification of emerging issues, an overview of BMO’s due 

diligence procedures and tools to assist employees in identifying and 

managing environmental, social and governance risks. We review our 

environmental and social risk policies and procedures on a periodic basis. 

To ensure that we are informed of emerging issues, we participate in 

global forums with our peers, maintain an open dialogue with our stake<

holders and continuously monitor and evaluate policy and legislative 

changes in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our environmental and 

social policies and practices are outlined in detail in our annual Environ<

mental, Social and Governance Report and Public Accountability State<

ment, and on our Corporate Responsibility website. Our Environmental, 

Social and Governance Report also reports on our environmental and 

social performance according to the Global Reporting Initiative. 
MD&A BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
99 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
2012 Financial Performance Review 
The preceding discussions in the MD&A focused on our performance in 
2013. This section summarizes our performance in fiscal 2012 relative 

to fiscal 2011. As noted on page 26, certain prior year data has been 

reclassified to conform to the presentation in 2013, including restate<

ments arising from transfers between operating groups, as well as 

restatements to report provisions for credit loss in the operating groups 

on an actual credit loss basis rather than on an expected loss basis. 

Further information on restatements is provided on page 45. 
Net income increased $1,075 million or 35% to $4,189 million in 
fiscal 2012 and earnings per share (EPS) increased $1.31 or 27% to 

$6.15. Adjusted net income increased $817 million or 25% to 

$4,092 million and adjusted EPS increased $0.90 or 18% to $6.00, 

primarily due to the inclusion of eight additional months of M&I results 

compared to 2011. 
Adjusting items are detailed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on 
page 34. 
Return on equity and adjusted return on equity were 15.9% and 
15.5%, respectively, compared to 15.1% and 16.0%, respectively, in 

2011. There was an increase of $1,084 million in earnings ($826 million 

in adjusted earnings) available to common shareholders. Average 

common shareholders’ equity increased by almost $6.0 billion from 

2011, primarily due to the issuance of common shares to M&I share<

holders in July 2011 as consideration for the acquisition, as well as 

internally generated capital. 
Revenue increased $2,187 million or 16% in 2012 to 
$16,130 million. Adjusted revenue increased $1,325 million or 10% to 

$15,067 million. The inclusion of eight additional months of M&I results 

in 2012 increased adjusted revenue by $1,161 million or 8% relative to 

the prior year. The stronger U.S. dollar added $51 million to adjusted 

revenue growth, on a basis that excludes the impact of the acquired 

business. Excluding these two items, revenue increased $113 million or 

1%, primarily due to growth in U.S. P&C and Wealth Management. For 

the fifth consecutive year, there was solid growth in both consolidated 

net interest income and non-interest revenue on a reported basis, with 

both growing at double-digit rates in 2012. 
BMO recorded $765 million of provisions for credit losses in 2012, 
compared with $1,212 million in 2011. Adjusted provisions for credit 

losses were $471 million in 2012, compared with $1,108 million in 

2011. The improvement was due to recoveries on the M&I purchased 

credit impaired loan portfolio and an improved credit environment. 
Non-interest expense increased $1,497 million or 17% to 
$10,238 million in 2012. Adjusted non-interest expense increased 

$1,060 million or 13% to $9,513 million. The inclusion of eight addi<

tional months of M&I results in 2012 increased adjusted expense by 

$856 million or 10%. The stronger U.S. dollar increased costs in 2012 by 

$34 million, excluding the impact related to acquisitions. Excluding these 

two factors, expenses increased $170 million or 2%, primarily due to 

continued investment in our businesses, including technology develop<

ment initiatives. 
The provision for income taxes was $938 million in 2012, compared 
with $876 million in 2011. The adjusted provision for income taxes in 

2012 was $991 million, compared with $906 million in 2011. The effec<

tive tax rate in 2012 was 18.3%, compared with 22.0% in 2011. The 

adjusted effective tax rate in 2012 was 19.5%, compared with 21.7% 

in 2011. The lower adjusted effective tax rate in 2012 was mainly 

attributable to a reduction of 1.6 percentage points in the statutory 

Canadian income tax rate in 2012 and higher recoveries of prior years’ 

income taxes. 
Net income in Canadian P&C in 2012 rose $60 million or 4% from 
2011 to $1,775 million. Revenue increased $24 million to 

$6,212 million, as the effects of growth in balances and fees across 
100 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
most of the business were largely offset by lower net interest margin. 

Non-interest expense increased $50 million or 2% to $3,183 million, 

primarily due to investments in the business, including our distribution 

network, net of strong expense management. 
Both net income and adjusted net income in U.S. P&C more than 
doubled in 2012, with net income increasing $321 million to 

$580 million and adjusted net income increasing $350 million to 

$644 million. On a U.S. dollar basis, net income increased $318 million 

and adjusted net income increased $345 million. Revenue increased 

$1,023 million or 51% to $3,024 million, and increased $990 million or 

49% on a U.S. dollar basis, of which $939 million was attributable to the 

inclusion of eight additional months of M&I results in 2012. The 

remaining $51 million increase was primarily due to growth in both 

gains on the sale of newly originated mortgages and commercial 

lending fees. Adjusted non-interest expense increased $624 million or 

53% to $1,807 million, and increased $603 million or 50% on a 

U.S. dollar basis, with $552 million of the increase due to the inclusion 
of eight additional months of M&I results in 2012. The remaining 

$51 million increase was largely attributable to increases in regulatory 

and other support costs and litigation accruals. 
Net income in Wealth Management was $524 million, up $44 mil<
lion or 9% from 2011. Adjusted net income was $545 million, up 

$55 million or 11%. Adjusted net income in wealth businesses was 

$387 million, up $28 million or 8%. Adjusted net income in insurance 

was $158 million, up $27 million or 21%. Revenue of $2,905 million in 

2012 increased $313 million or 12%. Revenue in wealth businesses 

increased by 12%, as a result of acquisitions, including the incremental 

impact of M&I and LGM, earnings from a strategic investment and 

growth in revenues across most businesses. Insurance revenue 

increased 9% from the prior year. Insurance revenue was reduced in 

both 2012 and 2011 by the unfavourable impact of movements in long<

term interest rates. In 2011, insurance revenue was also reduced by an 

unusually high $55 million charge in respect of reinsurance claims 

related to the earthquakes in Japan and New Zealand. Non-interest 

expense of $2,219 million increased $263 million or 13%. Adjusted non-

interest expense of $2,190 million increased $246 million or 13%, 

primarily due to an increase in spending on our strategic priorities. 
Net income in BMO Capital Markets increased $46 million to 
$1,021 million in 2012. The increase was driven by lower income taxes 

and a reduction in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by an 

increase in expenses. Revenue decreased by a modest $39 million to 

$3,276 million in a challenging market environment for some areas in 

our investment banking business. Net interest income decreased 

$38 million or 3% from the prior year. Non-interest revenue was con<

sistent with the prior year. A significant increase in trading revenue was 

offset by a reduction in mergers and acquisitions and equity under<

writing fees, reflecting lower activity levels, and reductions in both 

securities commissions and investment securities gains. The stronger 

U.S. dollar increased revenue by $21 million. Provisions for credit losses 
were $26 million lower in 2012. Non-interest expense increased 

$60 million or 3% to $1,956 million, primarily due to increases in 

employee costs and technology investments. 
Corporate Services net income for the year was $289 million, 
compared with a net loss of $315 million in 2011. Adjusted net income 

was $96 million, compared with an adjusted net loss of $209 million in 

2011. Adjusted revenue was essentially unchanged, while adjusted 

expense increased by $82 million, primarily due to the impact of the 

acquired businesses. Adjusted provisions for credit losses were 

$489 million lower, primarily due to a $509 million ($315 million after 

tax) recovery of provisions for credit losses on the M&I purchased credit 

impaired loan portfolio. 
Review of Fourth Quarter 2013 Performance; ;
Reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2013 was $1,088 million, 
up 1% or $6 million from a year ago. Adjusted net income for the fourth 

quarter was $1,102 million, down $23 million or 2% from a year ago. 

Adjusted results for the quarter exclude: $30 million after-tax net benefit 

for credit-related items in respect of the purchased performing loan 

portfolio; $60 million pre-tax ($37 million after tax) for integration costs 

of the acquired business; $26 million pre-tax ($20 million after tax) 

benefit from run-off structured credit activities; $5 million for income 

taxes related to the collective allowance on loans other than the <

purchased loan portfolio; and $31 million pre-tax ($22 million after tax) 

of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Summary 

income statements and data for the quarter and comparative quarters 

are outlined on page 103. Adjusting items are included in Corporate 

Services except the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, 

which is included across the operating groups. 
Amounts in the rest of this Review of Fourth Quarter 2013 Perform<
ance section are stated on an adjusted basis. 
There was particularly strong growth in Wealth Management, 
including higher securities gains, and good growth in Canadian P&C, 

offset by lower income in BMO Capital Markets and higher provisions for 

credit losses in the P&C businesses. Canadian P&C had good results, 

driven by strong volume growth across most products, partially offset by 

lower net interest margin, higher provisions for credit losses and mod<

estly higher expenses. Wealth Management net income was up sig<

nificantly, driven by a security gain and strong performance in the other 

wealth and insurance underlying businesses. BMO Capital Markets net 

income declined from strong results a year ago, primarily due to lower 

trading revenues reflecting market uncertainty. The prior year included 

strong trading revenues and a recovery of prior periods’ income taxes. 

U.S. P&C results declined primarily due to an increase in the provisions 
for credit losses, which were above trend in the current quarter, and 

lower revenues. Corporate Services results declined, primarily due to 

lower revenues. 
Revenue increased $140 million or 4% to $4,060 million. Revenue 
significantly increased in Wealth Management, reflecting a $191 million 

security gain and a 12% increase in the other wealth businesses, and 

there were good results in Canadian P&C, with declines in the other 

operating groups. The stronger U.S. dollar increased revenue growth by 

$60 million, net of hedging impacts. 
Net interest income increased $12 million or 1% to $1,968 million. 
BMO’s overall net interest margin decreased by 9 basis points from a 

year ago to 1.58%. Average earning assets increased $29.6 billion or 6% 

relative to a year ago, including a $9.5 billion increase as a result of the 

stronger U.S. dollar. There was strong growth in Canadian P&C and 

Wealth Management, growth in BMO Capital Markets and U.S. P&C, and 

a reduction in Corporate Services. 
Non-interest revenue increased $128 million or 6% to $2,092 mil<
lion, mainly due to a large security gain in Wealth Management and 

higher mutual fund revenues, partially offset by lower trading revenues 

in BMO Capital Markets. Most other types of non-interest revenue were 

also up, with the exception of insurance income, card fees and other. 

The stronger U.S. dollar increased non-interest revenue growth by $27 

million, net of hedging impacts. 
Non-interest expense increased $66 million or 3% to $2,502 
million. Excluding the impact of the stronger U.S. dollar, non-interest 

expense increased by a modest $22 million or 1%, primarily due to 

higher employee-related costs, including pension, and higher 

regulatory-related costs. 
The provision for credit losses (PCL) was $140 million, compared 
with $113 million in the fourth quarter of 2012. The increase in PCL was 

mainly due to above trend provisions in Canadian P&C and U.S. P&C, 

coupled with lower recoveries of credit losses on the purchased credit 

impaired loan portfolio in Corporate Services. 
The provision for income taxes of $316 million increased 
$70 million from the fourth quarter of 2012. The effective tax rate for 

the quarter was 22.3%, compared with 17.9% a year ago, primarily due 

to lower recoveries of prior periods’ income taxes and an increased 

proportion of income from higher tax-rate jurisdictions. 
MD&A Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
101 MD&A MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Summary Quarterly Earnings Trends 
BMO’s results and performance measures for the past eight quarters are 
outlined on page 103. Periodically, certain business lines and units 

within the business lines are transferred between client operating 

groups to more closely align BMO’s organizational structure with its 

strategic priorities. Comparative figures have been restated to conform 

to the current presentation. During the first quarter of 2013, we 

commenced charging provisions for credit losses to BMO’s operating 

groups based on actual credit losses incurred. Previously we had 

charged the groups with credit losses based on an expected loss provi<

sioning methodology. See the 2013 Review of Operating Groups Per<

formance on page 44. 
We have remained focused on embracing a culture that places the 
customer at the centre of everything we do. Economic conditions were 

at times challenging for some of our businesses in 2012 and 2013, but 

conditions have improved overall and adjusted quarterly results have 

generally trended higher over the past two years. 
BMO’s quarterly earnings, revenue and expense are modestly 
affected by seasonal factors. Since our second fiscal quarter has 89 days 

(90 in a leap year) and other quarters have 92 days, second-quarter 

results are lower relative to other quarters because there are fewer 

calendar days, and thus fewer business days. The months of July 

(third quarter) and August (fourth quarter) are typically characterized by 

lower levels of capital markets activity, which has an effect on results in 

Wealth Management and BMO Capital Markets. The December holiday 

season also contributes to a slowdown in some activities. 
Canadian P&C produced good fourth-quarter results to close out a 
strong second half of 2013. Strong volume growth in both the personal 

and commercial segments generated improved revenue growth in the 

third and fourth quarters compared to the first half of 2013. Net interest 

margin year-over-year declines have been abating. Expense growth 

continues to be modest as continued investment in the business is 

mitigated by strong expense management. 
U.S. P&C results have benefited from the M&I acquisition, as well as 
increases in commercial loan balances. U.S. P&C had strong results in the 

first quarter of 2013, and results were relatively stable in the second 

and third quarters due to core commercial and industrial loan growth 

and lower expenses compared to the prior year’s results offsetting 

lower margins and balances in certain portfolios. Results in the fourth 

quarter were negatively impacted by higher provisions for credit losses. 

Net interest margin has been declining, primarily due to lower deposit 

spreads in the low-rate environment, as well as lower loan spreads due 

to competitive pricing. 
Wealth Management operating results were strong in 2013, 
continuing the improving trend from 2012. Quarterly results in our 

wealth businesses have grown on a relatively consistent basis, reflecting 
growth in client assets and a continued focus on productivity. The fourth 

quarter of the current year includes a large security gain. Quarterly 

results in insurance have been subject to variability, resulting primarily 

from changes in long-term interest rates. 
BMO Capital Markets operating results in the first three quarters of 
2012 were good, with significantly stronger results reported in the fourth 

quarter, driven by a recovery of prior periods’ income taxes and an 

increase in revenue due to an improved market environment. This trend 

continued in 2013 with good performance in the first three quarters of 

the year. Performance in the fourth quarter was impacted by market 

uncertainty resulting in lower revenues. 
BMO’s PCL measured as a percentage of loans and acceptances 
have been trending lower in recent quarters relative to 2012, but 

increased in the fourth quarter of 2013. Adjusted PCL, which excludes 

provisions on the M&I purchased loan portfolio and changes in the 

collective allowance, was relatively consistent throughout 2012 and into 

the first half of 2013, and decreased significantly in the third quarter of 

2013 mainly due to lower provisions in Canadian P&C and U.S. P&C, and 

higher recoveries of credit losses on the purchased credit impaired loan 

portfolio. Adjusted PCL increased in the fourth quarter of 2013, mainly 

due to above trend provisions in Canadian P&C and U.S. P&C, coupled 

with lower recoveries of credit losses on the purchased credit impaired 

loan portfolio. 
Corporate Services quarterly net income can vary, in large part due 
to the inclusion of the adjusting items, which are largely recorded in 

Corporate Services. Adjusted results in Corporate Services were relatively 

steady in 2012, primarily due to significant recoveries of provisions on 

the purchased credit impaired loan portfolio. These recoveries can vary, 

and a decrease in recoveries in the first quarter of 2013, together with a 

reduction in revenues and an increase in expenses, lowered Corporate 

Services results that quarter. These recoveries increased in the last three 

quarters of 2013, increasing net income. 
Fluctuations in exchange rates in 2012 and 2013 have been sub<
dued. A stronger U.S. dollar increases the translated value of U.S.-dollar<

denominated revenues, expenses, provisions for credit losses, income 

taxes and net income. 
The effective income tax rate can vary, as it depends on the timing 
of resolution of certain tax matters, recoveries of prior periods’ income 

taxes and the relative proportion of earnings attributable to the different 

jurisdictions in which we operate. 
Caution 
This Summary Quarterly Earnings Trends section contains forward-looking statements. 

Please see the Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 
102 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Summarized Statement of Income and Quarterly Financial Measures 
Oct. 31 
July 31 
April 30 
Jan. 31 Oct. 31 
July 31 
April 30 
Jan. 31 
($ millions) 
2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 2012 2013 2012 2011 Net interest income 
2,085 2,146 2,098 2,216 2,145 2,225 2,120 2,318 8,545 8,808 7,474 Non-interest revenue 2,103 1,904 1,846 1,865 2,031 1,653 1,839 1,799 7,718 7,322 6,469 Total revenue 
4,188 4,050 3,944 4,081 4,176 3,878 3,959 4,117 16,263 16,130 13,943 Provision for credit losses – specific 
Provision for credit losses – general 

Non-interest expense 189 – 2,597 57 
20 2,542 175 (30) 2,568 178 – 2,590 216 (24) 2,701 229 8 2,484 195 – 2,499 122 19 2,554 599 (10) 10,297 762 3 10,238 1,126 86 
8,741 Income before provision for income taxes 

Provision for income taxes 
1,402 314 1,431 294 1,231 256 1,313 265 1,283 201 1,157 187 1,265 237 1,422 313 5,377 
1,129 5,127 938 3,990 876 Net income 
1,088 1,137 975 1,048 1,082 970 1,028 
1,109 4,248 
4,189 3,114 Adjusted net income 
1,102 1,136 997 1,041 1,125 1,013 982 972 4,276 4,092 3,275 Provision for credit losses – specific 
Canadian P&C 
166 126 154 128 146 147 167 155 574 615 664 U.S. P&C 
96 40 55 32 75 76 60 63 223 274 359 Personal and Commercial Banking 

Wealth Management 
BMO Capital Markets 
Corporate Services, including T&O 
262 1 (17) (57) 
166 (1) 2 (110) 209 1 (6) (29) 160 2 (15) 31 221 11 (4) (12) 223 5 – 1 227 1 19 (52) 218 5 (9) (92) 797 3 (36) (165) 
889 22 6 (155) 1,023 10 
32 
61 BMO Financial Group provision for credit losses – specific 
189 57 175 178 216 229 195 122 599 762 1,126 Operating group reported net income: 
Canadian P&C 
469 497 430 458 442 459 433 441 1,854 1,775 1,715 U.S. P&C 
106 153 155 182 140 139 142 159 596 580 259 Personal and Commercial Banking 

Wealth Management BMO Capital Markets 

Corporate Services, including T&O 
575 312 229 (28) 650 218 
280 (11) 585 141 
275 (26) 640 163 
310 (65) 582 164 314 22 598 109 250 13 575 147 233 
73 600 104 
224 
181 2,450 834 1,094 (130) 2,355 524 1,021 289 1,974 480 
975 (315) BMO Financial Group reported net income 
1,088 1,137 975 1,048 1,082 970 1,028 
1,109 4,248 4,189 3,114 Operating group adjusted net income: 
Canadian P&C 
472 500 431 461 444 462 436 443 1,864 1,785 1,724 U.S. P&C 
118 165 168 195 156 155 157 176 646 644 294 Personal and Commercial Banking 

Wealth Management 

BMO Capital Markets 

Corporate Services, including T&O 
590 
319 
229 (36) 665 
225 
281 (35) 599 
148 
276 (26) 656 
169 
310 (94) 600 
169 
315 41 617 
114 
250 32 593 
153 
233 3 619 
109 
224 20 2,510 861 1,096 (191) 2,429 545 1,022 96 2,018 490 
976 (209) BMO Financial Group adjusted net income 
1,102 1,136 997 1,041 1,125 1,013 982 972 4,276 4,092 3,275 Information per Common Share 
($) Dividends declared 
0.74 0.74 0.74 0.72 0.72 0.70 0.70 0.70 2.94 2.82 2.80 Earnings Basic 1.62 1.69 1.43 1.53 1.59 1.42 1.52 1.65 6.27 6.18 4.90 Diluted 1.62 1.68 1.42 1.53 1.59 1.42 1.51 1.63 6.26 6.15 4.84 Adjusted earnings 
Basic 1.65 1.69 1.46 1.52 1.65 1.49 1.45 1.43 6.31 6.02 5.17 Diluted 1.64 1.68 1.46 1.52 1.65 1.49 1.44 1.42 6.30 6.00 5.10 Book value 
43.69 42.38 41.73 40.87 40.25 39.43 38.06 37.85 43.69 40.25 36.76 Market price 
High 
Low 73.90 
63.21 65.99 
58.68 64.50 
61.51 64.70 
56.74 59.96 
56.72 58.73 
53.15 59.91 
56.54 61.29 
54.38 73.90 
56.74 61.29 
53.15 63.94 
55.02 Close 72.62 63.87 63.19 62.99 59.02 57.44 58.67 58.29 72.62 59.02 58.89 Financial Measures 
(%) Dividend yield 
Return on equity 

Adjusted return on equity 

Net interest margin on earning assets 

Adjusted net interest margin on earning assets 

Efficiency ratio 

Adjusted efficiency ratio 

Operating leverage* 
Adjusted operating leverage* 
Provision for credit losses as a % of average net loans and 
acceptances Effective tax rate 
4.1 15.0 
15.2 
1.67 
1.58 
62.0 
61.6 4.2 0.9 0.27 
22.4 4.6 15.6 
15.6 
1.75 1.63 62.8 
63.2 2.2 0.9 0.11 
20.6 4.7 14.2 
14.5 
1.79 1.64 65.1 
63.9 (3.2) (1.0) 0.22 
20.8 4.6 14.9 
14.8 
1.85 1.67 63.5 
63.8 (2.3) (0.4) 0.28 
20.2 4.9 15.6 
16.3 
1.83 
1.67 
64.7 
62.2 (1.7) 2.7 0.31 
15.7 4.9 14.5 
15.2 
1.88 
1.70 
64.1 
63.7 4.9 (4.4) 0.38 16.2 4.8 16.2 
15.4 
1.89 
1.76 
63.1 
63.2 (4.4) (3.3) 0.32 18.7 4.8 17.2 
15.0 
2.05 
1.85 
62.0 
63.5 (5.4) (7.6) 0.23 22.0 4.0 14.9 
15.0 
1.77 
1.63 
63.3 
63.1 0.2 0.1 0.22 
21.0 4.8 15.9 
15.5 
1.91 
1.74 
63.5 
63.1 (1.4) (2.8) 0.31 
18.3 4.8 15.1 
16.0 
1.85 
1.79 
62.7 
61.5 (0.8) 0.8 0.56 
22.0 Adjusted effective tax rate 

Canadian/U.S. dollar average exchange rate 
($) Gross impaired loans and acceptances as a % of equity and 
allowance for credit losses 
22.3 1.042 7.61 20.1 1.038 8.14 20.0 1.018 8.80 19.9 0.995 8.98 17.9 0.989 9.30 16.9 1.018 9.15 19.5 0.992 9.34 23.7 1.013 8.74 20.6 1.024 7.61 19.5 1.003 9.30 21.7 0.985 8.98 Cash and securities-to-total assets 
31.2 30.8 30.1 30.6 29.4 31.3 32.0 32.2 31.2 29.4 29.5 Capital Ratios 
(%) Basel III 
Basel II 
Basel III 
Basel II 
Common Equity Ratio 

Tier 1 Capital Ratio 

Total Capital Ratio 
9.9 11.4 
13.7 9.6 11.2 
13.5 9.7 11.3 
13.7 9.4 11.1 
13.4 10.5 12.6 
14.9 10.3 12.4 
14.8 9.9 12.0 
14.9 9.7 11.7 
14.6 9.9 11.4 
13.7 10.5 
12.6 
14.9 9.6 12.0 
14.9 MD&A * Leverage ratios for 2011 reflect growth based on CGAAP in 2010 and IFRS in 2011. 
In the opinion of Bank of Montreal management, information that is derived from unaudited financial information, including information as at and for the interim periods, includes all 
adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of such information. All such adjustments are of a normal and recurring nature. Financial ratios for interim periods are stated on an annualized 

basis where appropriate, and the ratios, as well as interim operating results, are not necessarily indicative of actual results for the full fiscal year. 
Adjusted results in this table are non-GAAP and are discussed in the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
103                      
    
                          
                     
                  
  
  
         
               
            
           
           
   
    
           
    
           
   
           
  
           
  
  
          
   
     
          
    
          
  
          
  
   
  
   
          
  
          
  
          
    
          
    
           
     
  
          
  
          
   
          
   
          
      
        
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 Supplemental Information
Supplemental Information As of November 1, 2011, BMO’s financial results have been reported in accordance with IFRS. The consolidated financial statements for comparative periods in fiscal year 2011 have been restated. Results for years prior to 2011 have not been restated and are presented in accordance with Canadian GAAP as defined at that time (CGAAP). As such, certain growth rates and compound annual growth rates (CAGR) may not be meaningful. Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP measures. Refer to the non-GAAP Measures section on page 34. Table 1:
 Shareholder
 Value As at or for the year ended October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Market Price per Common Share ($) High 73.90 61.29 63.94 65.71 54.75 63.44 72.75 70.24 62.44 59.65 Low 56.74 53.15 55.02 49.78 24.05 35.65 60.21 56.86 53.05 49.28 Close 72.62 59.02 58.89 60.23 50.06 43.02 63.00 69.45 57.81 57.55 Common Share Dividends Dividends declared per share ($) 2.94 2.82 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.71 2.26 1.85 1.59 Dividends paid per share ($) 2.92 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.63 2.13 1.80 1.50 Dividend payout ratio (%) 46.9 45.6 57.1 58.6 90.6 73.9 64.8 43.0 39.1 35.2 Dividend yield (%) 4.0 4.8 4.8 4.6 5.6 6.5 4.3 3.3 3.2 2.8 Dividends declared ($ millions) 1,904 1,820 1,690 1,571 1,530 1,409 1,354 1,133 925 796 Total Shareholder Return (%) Five-year average annual return 17.0 4.2 1.9 5.9 1.8 0.9 14.2 19.1 13.8 18.9 Three-year average annual return 11.5 10.8 17.4 4.5 (5.3) (5.6) 6.6 15.6 18.4 23.0 One-year return 28.8 5.2 2.4 26.4 25.1 (27.9) (5.8) 24.1 3.7 20.0 Common Share Information Number outstanding (in thousands) End of year 644,130 650,730 639,000 566,468 551,716 504,575 498,563 500,726 500,219 500,897 Average basic 648,476 644,407 591,403 559,822 540,294 502,062 499,950 501,257 500,060 501,656 Average diluted 649,806 648,615 607,068 563,125 542,313 506,697 508,614 511,173 510,845 515,045 Number of shareholder accounts 56,241 59,238 58,769 36,612 37,061 37,250 37,165 38,360 40,104 41,438 Book value per share ($) 43.69 40.25 36.76 34.09 31.95 32.02 28.29 28.89 26.48 24.20 Total market value of shares ($ billions) 46.8 38.4 37.6 34.1 27.6 21.7 31.4 34.8 28.9 28.8 Price-to-earnings multiple 11.6 9.6 12.2 12.7 16.3 11.4 15.3 13.5 12.5 13.1 Price-to-adjusted earnings multiple 11.5 9.8 11.5 12.5 12.5 9.2 11.6 13.4 12.9 13.4 Market-to-book value multiple 1.66 1.47 1.49 1.77 1.57 1.34 2.23 2.40 2.18 2.38 2010 and prior based on CGAAP. 104 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013         
     
        
            
   
     
  
  
     
  
  
       
    
     
    
       
      
       
    
     
      
      
    
       
   
        
  
    
    
      
       
     
   
     
  
  
     
  
  
       
    
     
    
       
      
       
    
       
    
      
     
       
   
        
  
    
    
       
       
    
         
        
  
       
   
     
    
       
    
      
    
       
    
                    
                  
      
        
    
    
    
         
 Table 2:
 Summary
 Income Statement and
 Growth Statistics ($ millions, except as noted) 5-year 10-year For the year ended October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 CAGR CAGR Income Statement – Reported Results Net interest income 8,545 8,808 7,474 6,235 5,570 11.0 6.0
 Non-interest revenue 7,718 7,322 6,469 6,004 5,494 8.5 6.2
 Total revenue 16,263 16,130 13,943 12,239 11,064 9.8 6.1 Provision for credit losses 589 765 1,212 1,049 1,603 nm nm Non-interest expense 10,297 10,238 8,741 7,619 7,381 8.4 5.4 Income before provision for income taxes 5,377 5,127 3,990 3,571 2,080 22.1 8.2 Provision for income taxes 1,129 938 876 687 217 nm 5.6 Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (1) na na na 74 76 nm nm Net income 4,248 4,189 3,114 2,810 1,787 15.7 9.0 Attributable to bank shareholders 4,183 4,115 3,041 2,810 1,787 16.2 8.9 Attributable to non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (1) 65 74 73 na na nm nm Net income 4,248 4,189 3,114 2,810 1,787 15.7 9.0 Income Statement – Adjusted Results Net interest income 7,888 8,029 7,248 6,235 5,570 9.2 5.1
 Non-interest revenue 7,684 7,038 6,494 6,004 6,015 6.8 6.2
 Total revenue 15,572 15,067 13,742 12,239 11,585 8.0 5.6 Provision for credit losses 359 471 1,108 1,049 1,543 nm nm Non-interest expense 9,826 9,513 8,453 7,583 7,220 7.5 5.1 Income before provision for income taxes 5,387 5,083 4,181 3,607 2,822 15.1 7.7 Provision for income taxes 1,111 991 906 691 450 47.5 5.0 Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (1) na na na 74 76 nm nm Adjusted net income 4,276 4,092 3,275 2,916 2,372 11.2 8.6 Attributable to bank shareholders 4,211 4,018 3,202 2,916 2,372 10.9 8.4 Attributable to non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (1) 65 74 73 na na nm nm Adjusted net income 4,276 4,092 3,275 2,916 2,372 11.2 8.6 Earnings per Share (EPS) ($) Basic 6.27 6.18 4.90 4.78 3.09 10.6 6.0 Diluted 6.26 6.15 4.84 4.75 3.08 10.7 6.2 Adjusted diluted 6.30 6.00 5.10 4.81 4.02 6.2 5.8 Year-over-Year Growth-Based Statistical Information (%) Net income growth 1.4 34.5 8.0 54.8 (9.2) na na Adjusted net income growth 4.5 24.9 12.3 22.9 (5.6) na na Diluted EPS growth 1.8 27.1 1.9 54.2 (18.1) na na Adjusted diluted EPS growth 5.0 17.6 6.0 19.7 (13.9) na na 2010 and prior based on CGAAP. Five-year and ten-year CAGR based on CGAAP in 2008 and 2003,
 respectively, and on IFRS in 2013.
 2011 growth rates based on CGAAP
 in 2010 and IFRS in 2011. (1) Prior to 2011, under CGAAP, non-controlling interest in subsidiaries was deducted in the determination of net income. nm – not meaningful na – not applicable Supplemental Information BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 105            
     
      
  
           
          
  
    
    
         
          
      
           
  
  
          
   
           
    
           
   
  
  
          
      
             
      
           
   
          
      
           
    
           
     
           
    
  
  
          
        
            
      
      
        
    
       
                 
       
  
   
    
    
          
     
     
     
      
      
       
   
      
  
     
  
     
  
  
      
  
     
  
     
   
     
  
      
      
  
     
  
     
  
   
     
    
     
   
  
     
   
   
      
      
      
        
       
   
        
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 Table 3:
 Returns
 on Equity and Assets
 ($ millions, except as noted) For the year ended October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Reported net income 4,248 4,189 3,114 2,810 1,787 1,978 2,131 2,663 2,396 2,295 Attributable to non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (1) 65 74 73 na na na na na na na Preferred dividends 120 136 146 136 120 73 43 30 30 31 Reported net income available to common shareholders 4,063 3,979 2,895 2,674 1,667 1,905 2,088 2,633 2,366 2,264 Average common shareholders’ equity 27,197 25,106 19,145 17,980 16,865 14,612 14,506 13,703 12,577 11,696 Return on equity (%) 14.9 15.9 15.1 14.9 9.9 13.0 14.4 19.2 18.8 19.4 Return on average assets (%) 0.75 0.76 0.65 0.71 0.41 0.50 0.59 0.86 0.81 0.87 Return on average risk-weighted assets (%) (2) 1.95 1.98 1.70 1.74 0.97 1.07 1.20 1.71 1.63 1.67 Return on average assets available to common shareholders (%) 0.73 0.73 0.62 0.67 0.38 0.48 0.58 0.85 0.80 0.86 Average equity to average total assets (%) 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 Adjusted net income 4,276 4,092 3,275 2,916 2,372 2,513 2,881 2,752 2,386 2,260 Adjusted net income available to common shareholders 4,091 3,882 3,056 2,780 2,252 2,440 2,838 2,722 2,356 2,229 Adjusted return on equity (%) 15.0 15.5 16.0 15.0 12.9 16.2 19.0 19.3 18.3 18.9 Adjusted return on average assets (%) 0.76 0.74 0.68 0.71 0.52 0.61 0.78 0.87 0.78 0.85 Adjusted return on average risk-weighted assets (%) (2) 1.97 1.93 1.79 1.76 1.25 1.32 1.58 1.71 1.58 1.65 Adjusted return on average assets available to common shareholders (%) 0.74 0.71 0.65 0.68 0.50 0.59 0.77 0.86 0.77 0.84 Supplemental Information 2010 and prior based on CGAAP. (1) Prior to 2011, under CGAAP, non-controlling interest in subsidiaries was deducted in the determination of net income. (2) Beginning in 2008, return on average risk-weighted assets has been calculated under the Basel II guidelines; for all prior periods, return on average
 risk-weighted assets has been calculated using the Basel I methodology.na – not applicableTable4:Summary
 BalanceSheet
 ($ millions) As at October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 26,083 19,941 19,676 17,368 9,955 Interest bearing deposits with banks 6,518 6,341 5,980 3,186 3,340 Securities 134,981 128,324 122,115 123,399 110,813 Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements (1) 39,799 47,011 37,970 28,102 36,006 Net loans and acceptances 279,095 253,835 238,885 176,643 167,829 Other assets 50,823 69,997 75,949 62,942 60,515 Total assets 537,299 525,449 500,575 411,640 388,458 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Deposits 366,821 323,702 302,373 249,251 236,156 Other liabilities 134,538 167,102 164,197 135,933 126,719 Subordinated debt 3,996 4,093 5,348 3,776 4,236 Capital trust securities 463 462 821 800 1,150 Share capital Preferred 2,265 2,465 2,861 2,571 2,571 Common 12,003 11,957 11,332 6,927 6,198 Contributed surplus 315 213 113 92 79 Retained earnings 15,224 13,540 11,381 12,848 11,748 Accumulated other comprehensive gain (loss) 602 480 666 (558) (399) Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries 1,072 1,435 1,483 – – Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 537,299 525,449 500,575 411,640 388,458 Average Daily Balances Net loans and acceptances 266,064 246,119 215,414 171,554 182,097 Assets 555,682 544,264 469,934 398,474 438,548 2010 and prior based on CGAAP. (1) Certain securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements have been reclassified to loans and acceptances in 2012. 106 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013    
   
   
    
   
    
    
     
    
     
           
              
   
         
   
        
        
              
                 
          
               
           
                      
            
      
      
   
        
           
             
    
                
      
            
            
  
  
     
          
           
                   
   
   
     
                         
       
    
          
                         
  
          
           
           
  
           
  
          
           
           
   
           
  
          
           
     
           
    
           
    
            
           
           
   
          
             
    
         
 Table 5:
 Asset
 Encumbrance
 ($ millions) Other cash and On-balance securities sheet assets received Encumbered (1) Net unencumbered Pledged as Other Other Available as As at October 31, 2013 collateral encumbered unencumbered (3) collateral Cash and cash equivalents 26,083 – – 1,211 1,461 23,411 Interest bearing deposits with banks 6,518 – – – – 6,518 Securities and securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements Government debt 86,715 11,955 33,237 14,184 1,226 50,023 Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations 10,891 1,199 1,547 – 168 10,375
 Corporate debt 20,874 868 2,178 556 3,976 15,032 Corporate equity 56,300
 14,231 26,387 7,124 1,445 35,575 Total securities and securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 174,780 28,253 63,349 21,864 6,815 111,005
 NHA mortgage-backed securities (reported as loans at amortized cost) (2) 11,425 – – – – 11,425 Total liquid assets 218,806 28,253 63,349 23,075 8,276 152,359
 Loans 267,670 – 37,868
 1,956 227,846 – Other assets 50,823 – – – 50,823 – Total loans and other assets 318,493 – 37,868
 1,956 278,669 – Total 537,299 28,253 101,217
 25,031 286,945 152,359 (1) Pledged as collateral refers to the portion of BMO-owned assets and cash and securities received that is pledged through repurchase agreements, securities
 lent, derivative contracts, minimum required deposits at central banks, and requirements associated with participation in clearing houses and payment systems. Other encumbered includes
 assets that are not available for use for legal or other reasons such as restricted cash, restricted OTC derivatives and short sales. (2) Under IFRS, NHA mortgage-backed securities (MBS) that include BMO’s originated mortgages as the underlying collateral are classified as loans. Unencumbered NHA MBS securities have liquidity value and are included as liquid assets under BMO’s liquidity and funding management framework. This amount is shown as a separate line item, NHA mortgage-backed
 securities. (3) Other unencumbered assets include select holdings management believes are not readily available to support BMO’s liquidity requirements. These
 include cash and securities of $8.3 billion as at October 31, 2013, which include securities held in BMO’s insurance subsidiary, structured investment vehicle, credit protection vehicle, significant
 equity investments, and certain investments held in our merchant banking business. Other unencumbered assets also include loans and other assets. A portion of these loans may be used as collateral to access
 central bank facilities under normal operations or securitized to access secured funding. Table 6:
 Other
 Statistical Information
 As at or for the year ended October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Other Information Employees (1) Canada 30,301 30,797 31,351 29,821 29,118 29,529 28,944 27,922 26,684 26,494 United States 14,696 14,963 15,184 7,445 6,732 7,256 6,595 6,785 6,901 6,900 Other 634 512 440 363 323 288 288 234 200 199 Total 45,631 46,272 46,975 37,629 36,173 37,073 35,827 34,941 33,785 33,593 Bank branches Canada 933 930 920 910 900 983 977 963 968 988 United States 626 638 688 321 290 292 243 215 208 182 Other 4 3 3 3 5 5 4 4 4 4 Total 1,563 1,571 1,611 1,234 1,195 1,280 1,224 1,182 1,180 1,174 Automated banking machines Canada 2,900 2,596 2,235 2,076 2,030 2,026 1,978 1,936 1,952 1,993 United States 1,325 1,375 1,366 905 636 640 583 547 539 479 Total 4,225 3,971 3,601 2,981 2,666 2,666 2,561 2,483 2,491 2,472 Rates Average Canadian prime rate (%) 3.00 3.00 3.00 2.46 2.70 5.21 6.08 5.57 4.30 4.05 Average U.S. prime rate (%) 3.25 3.25 3.25 3.25 3.34 5.69 8.19 7.76 5.85 4.17 Canadian/U.S. dollar exchange rates ($) High 1.06 1.05 1.06 1.08 1.30 1.29 1.19 1.20 1.27 1.40 Low 0.98 0.97 0.94 1.00 1.03 0.92 0.95 1.10 1.16 1.22 Average 1.02 1.00 0.99 1.04 1.16 1.03 1.09 1.13 1.21 1.31 End of year 1.04 1.00 1.00 1.02 1.08 1.20 0.94 1.12 1.18 1.22 (1) Reflects full-time equivalent number of employees, comprising full-time and part-time employees and adjustments for overtime hours. Supplemental Information BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 107         
     
        
          
       
  
            
       
  
           
    
       
   
            
             
                
          
    
       
     
       
  
       
  
       
  
       
     
       
   
       
  
       
    
       
      
            
       
  
       
  
       
   
       
  
               
          
       
  
   
      
           
         
       
    
           
       
     
                           
           
       
           
    
    
        
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 Table 7:
 Revenue
 and Revenue
 Growth ($ millions, except as noted) 5-year 10-year For the year ended October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 CAGR CAGR Net Interest Income 8,545 8,808 7,474 6,235 5,570 11.0 6.0
 Year-over-year growth (%) (3.0) 17.8 19.9 11.9 9.8 na na Adjusted Net Interest Income 7,888
 8,029 7,248 6,235 5,570 9.2 5.1
 Year-over-year growth (%) (1.8) 10.8 16.2 11.9 9.8 na na Net Interest Margin (1) Average earning assets 484,141
 460,205 404,195 332,468 341,848 8.2 8.5 Net interest margin (%) 1.77 1.91 1.85 1.88 1.63 na na Adjusted net interest margin (%) 1.63 1.74 1.79 1.88 1.63 na na Canadian dollar net interest margin (%) 1.78 1.85 1.99 2.12 1.78 na na U.S. dollar and other currencies net interest margin (%) 1.74 2.01 1.61 1.47 1.43 na na Non-Interest Revenue Securities commissions and fees 1,182 1,146 1,215 1,077 973 1.3 2.8 Deposit and payment service charges 916 929 834 802 820 3.9 1.9 Trading revenues 849 1,025 549 504 723 9.2 11.9 Lending fees 715 641 593 572 556 10.7 9.3 Card fees 724 708 689 233 121 20.0 9.6 Investment management and custodial fees 726 725 496 355 344 16.4 9.1 Mutual fund revenues 799 647 633 550 467 6.3 9.6 Securitization revenues – – – 678 929 (87.4)
 (61.7) Underwriting and advisory fees 488 442 512 445 397 6.7 6.2 Securities gains (losses), other than trading 285 152 189 150 (354) nm nm Foreign exchange, other than trading 172 153 130 93 53 16.4 0.7 Insurance income 445 335 283 321 295 13.4 13.6 Other revenues 417 419 346 224 170 14.7 2.3 Total non-interest revenue 7,718 7,322 6,469 6,004 5,494 8.5 6.2
 Year-over-year growth (%) 5.4 13.2 7.7 9.3 7.0 na na Non-interest revenue as a % of revenue 47.5 45.4 46.4 49.1 49.7 na na Adjusted non-interest revenue 7,684 7,038 6,494 6,004 6,015 6.8 6.2
 Year-over-year adjusted non-interest revenue growth (%) 9.2 8.4 8.1 (0.2) 8.9 na na Adjusted non-interest revenue as a % of adjusted revenue 49.3 46.7 47.3 49.1 51.9 na na Total Revenue 16,263 16,130 13,943 12,239 11,064 9.8 6.1 Year-over-year total revenue growth (%) 0.8 15.7 13.9 10.6 8.4 na na Total Adjusted Revenue 15,572 15,067 13,742 12,239 11,585 8.0 5.6 Year-over-year total adjusted revenue growth (%) 3.4 9.7 12.3 5.7 9.4 na na Supplemental Information 2010 and prior based on CGAAP. Five-year and ten-year CAGR based on CGAAP in 2008
 and 2003,
 respectively, and on IFRS in 2013.
 2011 growth rates based on CGAAP in 2010 and IFRS in 2011. (1) Net interest margin is calculated based on average earning assets. na – not applicable nm – not meaningful 108 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013   
   
  
     
        
         
          
         
  
       
  
        
   
    
       
    
       
  
      
    
        
    
       
  
    
       
        
    
       
  
       
   
        
        
   
       
   
       
  
   
      
    
  
       
   
   
      
       
      
        
      
      
       
  
       
  
      
    
       
  
       
        
       
  
     
         
       
    
     
       
       
             
    
     
      
      
       
      
                    
                  
        
      
           
     
         
               
        
   
               
      
       
         
       
   
    
    
       
 Table 8:
 Non-Interest
 Expense and Expense-to-Revenue Ratio ($ millions, except as noted) 5-year 10-year For the year ended October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 CAGR CAGR Non-Interest Expense Employee compensation Salaries 3,318 3,208 2,646 2,285 2,395 9.1 5.3 Performance-based compensation 1,686 1,657 1,560 1,455 1,338 5.4 4.8 Employee benefits 823 763 621 624 652 9.2 4.3 Total employee compensation 5,827 5,628 4,827 4,364 4,385 7.9 5.0 Premises and equipment Rental of real estate 416 400 360 319 306 8.3 9.1 Premises, furniture and fixtures 377 368 310 269 272 8.2 3.3 Property taxes 37 36 30 28 30 5.2 (3.4) Computers and equipment (1) 1,047 1,112 878 727 673 6.4 5.3 Total premises and equipment (1) 1,877 1,916 1,578 1,343 1,281 7.1 Other expenses Amortization of intangible assets (1) 352 339 231 203 203 30.2 Communications 291 301 259 229 221 7.6 6.0 Business and capital taxes 39 46 51 52 44 (1.8) (9.8) Professional fees 527 593 624 401 362 6.5 7.5 Travel and business development 514 491 382 343 309 9.4 8.6 Other 870 924 789 684 576 9.5 8.3 Total other expenses 2,593 2,694 2,336 1,912 1,715 10.1 8.3 Total Non-Interest Expense 10,297 10,238 8,741 7,619 7,381 8.4 5.4 Year-over-year total non-interest expense growth (%) 0.6 17.1 14.7 3.2 7.1 na na Total Adjusted Non-Interest Expense 9,826 9,513 8,453 7,583 7,220 7.5 5.1 Year-over-year total adjusted non-interest expense growth (%) 3.3 12.5 11.5 5.0 5.4 na na Non-interest expense-to-revenue ratio (Efficiency ratio) (%) 63.3 63.5 62.7 62.2 66.7 na na Adjusted non-interest expense-to-revenue ratio (Efficiency ratio) (%) 63.1 63.1 61.5 62.0 62.3 na na Government Levies and Taxes (2) Government levies other than income taxes Payroll levies 249 250 203 175 171 8.7 4.8 Property taxes 37 36 30 28 30 5.2 (3.4) Provincial capital taxes 31 37 44 45 35 (1.0) (11.2) Business taxes 7 9 7 7 9 (4.7) 1.7 Harmonized sales tax, GST and other sales taxes 262 249 235 146 116 13.0 5.2 Sundry taxes 1 2 1 1 3 nm nm Total government levies other than income taxes 587 583 520 402 364 19.7 2.2 Provision for income taxes 1,129 938 876 687 217 nm 5.6 Total Government Levies and Taxes 1,716 1,521 1,396 1,089 581 54.1 2.6 Total government levies and taxes as a % of income available to pay government levies and taxes 28.7 26.6 31.0 27.4 23.8 na na Effective income tax rate (%) 21.0 18.3 22.0 19.2 10.5 na na Adjusted effective income tax rate (%) 20.6 19.5 21.7 19.2 15.9 na na Supplemental Information 2010 and prior based on CGAAP. Five-year and ten-year CAGR based on CGAAP in 2008 and 2003,
 respectively, and on IFRS in 2012. 2011 growth rates based on CGAAP in 2010 and IFRS in 2011. (1) In 2009, we adopted new accounting requirements for intangible assets and reclassified certain computer equipment from premises and equipment to intangible assets. Computer and equipment expense and the amortization of intangible assets were restated, but not for years prior to 2007. As such, ten-year growth rates for these expense categories are not meaningful. Together, computer and equipment expense and the amortization of intangible assets increased at a compound annual growth rate of 8.0%
 over ten years. Together, total premises and equipment expense and the amortization of intangible assets increased at a compound annual growth rate of 6.9% over ten years. (2) Government levies are included in various non-interest expense categories. na – not applicable nm – not meaningful BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 109             
     
       
  
  
    
   
      
   
     
    
   
    
         
    
      
      
          
   
   
      
  
         
     
   
      
  
         
  
          
  
         
   
         
     
    
         
          
      
          
   
         
  
   
      
     
         
  
         
  
    
      
  
   
      
      
         
    
      
     
   
      
   
           
  
    
      
          
  
   
      
      
         
      
     
      
       
         
   
         
     
           
  
    
      
          
  
   
      
      
         
      
           
       
         
      
         
    
      
     
         
  
        
  
         
   
     
        
          
       
     
        
           
                        
           
   
             
         
Supplemental Information SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 Table 9:
 Average
 Assets, Liabilities and
 Interest Rates ($ millions, except as noted) 2013 2012 2011 Average Interest Average Interest Average Interest Average interest income/ Average interest income/ Average interest income/ For the year ended October 31 balances rate (%) expense balances rate (%) expense balances rate (%) expense Assets Canadian Dollar Deposits with other banks 2,466 1.28 32 2,418 1.22 30 2,650 0.84 22 Securities 82,592 1.82 1,503 80,683 1.84 1,486 73,622 1.90 1,393 Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 22,309 0.54 121 20,898 1.11 232 14,409 1.08 156 Loans Residential mortgages 83,625 3.18 2,656
 73,538 3.41 2,509 70,144 4.15 2,912 Non-residential mortgages 4,354 4.33 189 4,026 4.72 190 3,992 5.05 202 Consumer instalment and other personal 47,840 4.00 1,913 46,113 4.05 1,868 42,858 4.18 1,793 Credit cards 7,004 11.64 815 7,104 11.58 823 7,109 11.72 833 Businesses and governments 37,337 4.68 1,749 34,055 5.19 1,766 31,968 5.85 1,870 Total loans 180,160 4.06 7,322 164,836 4.34 7,156 156,071 4.87 7,610 Total Canadian dollar 287,527 3.12 8,978 268,835 3.31 8,904 246,752 3.72 9,181 U.S. Dollar and Other Currencies Deposits with other banks 35,093 0.61 213
 38,666 0.54 209 29,993 0.41 123 Securities 48,488 1.32 640 47,840 1.63 779 44,969 1.74 783 Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 32,578 0.17 57 27,907 0.32 89 22,890 0.54 124 Loans Residential mortgages 8,762 4.37 383
 9,739 4.66 454 5,833 6.22 363 Non-residential mortgages 5,142 3.23 167 4,782 8.88 425 4,249 6.27 267 Consumer instalment and other personal 14,286 3.43 490 13,800 4.59 633 11,056 4.15 458 Credit cards 575 7.55 43 570 7.25 41 411 4.65 19 Businesses and governments 48,372 4.47 2,162 44,710 4.72 2,111 30,632 3.94 1,206 Total loans 77,137 4.21 3,245
 73,601 4.98 3,664 52,181 4.43 2,313 Total U.S. dollar and other currencies 193,296 2.15 4,155
 188,014 2.52 4,741 150,033 2.23 3,343 Other non-interest bearing assets 74,859 87,415 73,149 Total All Currencies Total assets and interest income 555,682
 2.36 13,133
 544,264 2.51 13,645 469,934 2.67 12,524 Liabilities 
Canadian Dollar Deposits Banks 5,921 0.34 20 4,233 0.34 14 3,137 0.34 11 Businesses and governments 87,071 1.44 1,257 76,139 1.51 1,147 70,096 1.79 1,251 Individuals 82,258 0.96 789
 81,031 1.00 808 78,357 1.13 885 Total deposits 175,250 1.18 2,066 161,403 1.22 1,969 151,590 1.42 2,147 Securities sold but not yet purchased 20,106 2.43 489 20,203 2.19 442 16,309 2.61 425 Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements (1) 15,971 1.37 219 24,011 1.02 244 20,181 1.22 246 Subordinated debt and other interest bearing liabilities 29,270
 3.43 1,004 35,635 3.37 1,202 38,664 3.44 1,329 Total Canadian dollar 240,597 1.57 3,778
 241,252 1.60 3,857 226,744 1.83 4,147 U.S. Dollar and Other Currencies Deposits Banks 17,135 0.33 56 17,131 0.34 58 18,144 0.48 87 Businesses and governments 123,139
 0.32 392 102,380 0.37 384 74,842 0.42 311 Individuals 40,684 0.29 119 40,503 0.41 167 27,183 0.54 148 Total deposits 180,958
 0.31 567 160,014 0.38 609 120,169 0.45 546 Securities sold but not yet purchased 5,490 1.31 72 6,063 2.18 132 4,891 2.76 135 Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements (1) 27,996 0.10 27 27,272 0.14 38 26,596 0.11 29 Subordinated debt and other interest bearing liabilities 4,325 3.32 144 3,830 5.26 201 3,323 5.80 193 Total U.S. dollar and other currencies 218,769 0.37 810 197,179 0.50 980 154,979 0.58 903 Other non-interest bearing liabilities 66,790 78,134 66,467 Total All Currencies Total liabilities and interest expense 526,156
 0.87 4,588
 516,565 0.94 4,837 448,190 1.13 5,050 Shareholders’ equity 29,526
 27,699 21,744 Total Liabilities, Interest Expense and Shareholders’ Equity 555,682
 0.83 4,588
 544,264 0.89 4,837 469,934 1.07 5,050 Net interest margin – based on earning assets 1.77 1.91 1.85 – based on total assets 1.54 1.62 1.59 Net interest income based on total assets 8,545 8,808 7,474 Adjusted net interest margin – based on earning assets 1.63 1.74 1.79 – based on total assets 1.42 1.48 1.54 Adjusted net interest income based on total assets 7,888 8,029 7,248 (1) For the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, the maximum amount of securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements at any month end amounted
 to $53,898 million, $62,038 million and $51,109 million, respectively. (2) Comparative periods have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. 110 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013   
        
  
        
      
          
         
    
  
   
     
   
      
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
   
      
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
       
   
  
      
    
  
   
    
   
       
   
   
    
  
    
  
  
   
      
  
   
   
  
    
  
    
  
   
  
   
          
  
   
    
     
   
    
   
    
   
   
    
  
    
   
   
   
  
       
  
    
      
   
   
     
  
  
   
       
  
   
      
    
   
   
    
   
   
    
  
  
    
      
  
   
       
   
   
     
  
  
    
         
  
    
   
     
   
   
       
   
  
   
          
 Table 10: Volume/Rate Analysis
 of Changes
 in Net Interest
 Income
 ($ millions) 2013/2012 2012/2011 Increase (decrease) due to change in Increase (decrease) due to change in Average Average Average Average For the year ended October 31 balance rate Total balance rate Total Assets Canadian Dollar Deposits with other banks 1 1 2 (2) 9 7 Securities 35 (19) 16 134 (43) 91 Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 16 (127) (111) 70 7 77 Loans Residential mortgages 344 (197) 147
 141 (543) (402) Non-residential mortgages 16 (17) (1) 2 (13) (11) Consumer instalment and other personal 70 (25) 45 134 (59) 75 Credit cards (12) 4 (8) – (10) (10) Businesses and governments 170 (187) (17) 122 (226) (104) Total loans 588 (422) 166 399 (851) (452)
 Change in Canadian dollar interest income 640 (567) 73 601 (878) (277)
 U.S. Dollar and Other Currencies Deposits with other banks (19) 23 4 35 51 86 Securities 11 (149) (138)
 50 (54) (4) Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 15 (47) (32) 27 (62) (35) Loans Residential mortgages (46) (25)
 (71) 243 (152) 91
 Non-residential mortgages 32 (291)
 (259) 33 125 158 Consumer instalment and other personal 22 (166) (144)
 114 61 175 Credit cards – 2 2 7 15
 22
 Businesses and governments 173 (121) 52 554 351 905 Total loans 181 (601) (420) 951 400
 1,351 Change in U.S. dollar and other currencies interest income 188 (774) (586) 1,063 335 1,398 Total All Currencies Change in total interest income (a) 828 (1,341) (513) 1,664 (543) 1,121 Liabilities 
Canadian Dollar Deposits Banks 6 – 6 4 – 4 Businesses and governments 165 (55) 110 107 (211)
 (104)
 Individuals 12 (32) (20) 30 (107) (77) Total deposits 183 (87) 96 141 (318)
 (177)
 Securities sold but not yet purchased (2) 49 47 101 (84) 17 Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements (82) 57 (25) 47 (49) (2) Subordinated debt and other interest-bearing liabilities (214) 16 (198) (104) (24) (128) Change in Canadian dollar interest expense (115) 35 (80) 185 (475) (290) U.S. Dollar and Other Currencies Deposits Banks – (2) (2) (5) (24) (29) Businesses and governments 78 (70) 8 114 (41) 73 Individuals 1 (48) (47) 73 (54) 19 Total deposits 79 (120) (41) 182 (119) 63 Securities sold but not yet purchased (12) (48) (60) 32 (35) (3) Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements 1 (12) (11) 1 8 9 Subordinated debt and other interest-bearing liabilities 26 (84) (58) 29 (21) 8 Change in U.S. dollar and other currencies interest expense 94 (264) (170)
 244 (167) 77 Total All Currencies Change in total interest expense (b) (21) (229) (250) 429 (642) (213) Change in total net interest income (a – b) 849 (1,112) (263) 1,235 99 1,334 Supplemental Information BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 111        
      
   
  
    
  
  
           
   
           
  
  
           
  
   
   
           
  
  
           
  
   
      
          
   
                    
  
           
  
    
                
        
        
   
  
    
  
  
           
   
               
   
   
               
  
               
  
                
    
   
  
               
  
               
     
  
               
  
         
   
      
    
     
        
   
                
  
                
        
  
  
  
               
           
             
  
         
              
           
         
     
            
                 
                
          
   
       
   
   
                
        
     
             
               
              
  
             
         
   
        
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 Table 11: Net Loans
 and Acceptances
 –Segmented Information
 ($ millions) (6) Canada United States Other countries As at October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Consumer Residential mortgages 88,612 76,649 68,190 40,730 36,916 7,636 7,416 7,945 4,982 6,160 – –––
 – Credit cards 7,413 7,381 7,564 3,056 2,574 457 433 474 252 – – –––
 – Consumer instalment and other personal loans 49,195 47,955 45,584 41,112 35,296 14,374 13,419 13,802 10,000 10,477 – –––
 – Total consumer 145,220 131,985 121,338 84,898 74,786 22,467 21,268 22,221 15,234 16,637 – –––
 – Total businesses and governments
 59,242 54,582 50,737 49,414 46,062 46,039 42,535 41,209 19,148 21,560 7,348 4,724 4,649 9,246 10,090 Total loans and acceptances, net of specific allowances 204,462 186,567
 172,075 134,312 120,848 68,506 63,803 63,430 34,382 38,197 7,348 4,724 4,649 9,246 10,090 Collective allowance (791) (705) (687) (595) (589) (694) (755) (765) (702) (717) – –––
 – Total net loans and acceptances 203,671 185,862
 171,388 133,717 120,259 67,812 63,048 62,665 33,680 37,480 7,348 4,724 4,649 9,246 10,090 Supplemental Information Table 12: Net Impaired
 Loans
 and Acceptances
 –Segmented Information
 ($ millions, except as noted) Canada United States Other countries As at October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Consumer Residential mortgages 157 182 178 227 236 359 335 221 220 121 – – – – – Consumer instalment and other personal loans 100 64 101 96 97 284 275 128 79 73 – – – – – Total consumer 257 246 279 323 333 643 610 349 299 194 – – – – – Businesses and governments
 253 377 433 372 376 944 1,271 1,108 1,279 1,673 3 25 2 40 125 Total impaired loans and acceptances, net of specific allowances 510 623 712 695 709 1,587 1,881 1,457 1,578 1,867 3 25 2 40 125 Collective allowance (791) (705) (687) (595) (589) (694) (755) (765) (702) (717) – – – – – Total net impaired loans and acceptances (NIL) (281) (82) 25 100 120 893 1,126 692 876 1,150 3 25 2 40 125 Condition Ratios (6) NIL as a % of net loans and acceptances (1) (2)
 (0.14) (0.04) 0.01 0.07 0.10 1.33 1.83 1.15 2.62 3.07 0.04 0.53 0.04 0.43 1.24 NIL as a % of net loans and acceptances (1) (2) Consumer 0.18 0.19 0.23 0.38 0.45 2.87 2.87 1.57 1.96 1.17 – – – – – Businesses and governments
 0.43 0.66 0.85 0.76 0.82 2.08 2.99 2.69 6.78 7.76 0.04 0.53 0.04 0.43 1.24 NIL as a % of net loans and acceptances excluding purchased portfolios (1) (2) (0.14) (0.04) 0.01 0.07 0.10 0.29 1.03 1.86 2.66 3.07 0.04 0.53 0.04 0.43 1.24 2010 and prior in Tables 11 – 19 based on CGAAP. (1) Aggregate balances are net of specific and collective allowances; the consumer and businesses and governments categories are stated net of specific allowances only. (2) Ratio is presented including purchased portfolios and prior periods have been restated. The ratios are presented excluding purchased portfolios, to provide for better historical comparisons. (3) Includes amounts returning to performing status, sales, repayments, the impact of foreign exchange, and offsets for consumer write-offs that are not recognized as formations. (4) Results for years prior to 2011 have not been restated and are presented in accordance with Canadian GAAP as defined at the time. For 2011, the allowance for credit losses at the beginning of year has been restated to comply with the requirements of IFRS. (5) Effective in 2011, total equity includes non-controlling interest in subsidiaries. In addition, geographic allocations are not available, as equity is not allocated on a country of risk basis. (6) Certain balances and ratios (coverage, condition and performance) for fiscal 2012 were restated in the first quarter of 2013 to conform to the current period’s presentation. (7) Amounts for 2013 exclude specific allowances of $41 million related to Other Credit Instruments (2012 $29 million, 2011 $45 million, 2010 $9 million, 2009 nil) included in Other Liabilities. (8) Adjusted provision for credit losses excludes provisions related to the M&I purchased performing loans portfolio and changes to the collective allowance. un – unavailable 112 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013      
      
    
     
    
   
   
  
     
     
     
    
     
  
     
    
    
     
    
  
    
     
   
    
  
     
   
     
   
     
     
     
 
     
     
  
     
      
     
     
      
      
   
     
      
      
  
     
  
     
   
     
     
     
     
    
     
    
    
      
      
    
    
     
    
    
  
    
  
     
   
     
   
  
      
  
  
   
  
     
     
    
      
      
  
     
   
    
  
     
  
  
   
     
  
     
    
   
    
      
         
 Table 13: Net Loans
 and Acceptances
 –Segmented Information
 ($ millions) (6) Total As at October 312013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009Net Loans and Acceptances by Province Atlantic provinces 13,072 11,938 10,681 8,476 7,227 Quebec 38,344 36,064 28,603 22,194 19,39696,248 84,065 76,135 45,712 43,076 Ontario77,050 69,813 68,831 54,056 50,0797,870 7,814 8,038 3,308 2,574 Prairie provinces 38,715 34,830 32,291 25,159 22,877 British Columbia and territories 37,281 33,922 31,669 24,427 21,26963,569 61,374 59,386 51,112 45,773 Total net loans and acceptances in Canada204,462 186,567 172,075 134,312 120,848167,687 153,253 143,559 100,132 91,423 Net Businesses and Governments
 Loans by Industry Commercial mortgages 15,152 15,934 18,851 11,004 9,284 Commercial real estate 10,422 8,790 8,519 6,796 6,648 Construction (non-real estate) 2,804 2,400 2,298 1,802 1,795 112,629 101,841 96,595 77,808 77,712 280,316 255,094
 240,154 177,940 169,135 Retail trade9,774 8,495 7,129 5,751 4,864 (1,485) (1,460) (1,452) (1,297) (1,306) Wholesale trade 7,035 6,406 5,330 3,174 2,854 Agriculture 6,030 5,078 4,488 3,839 3,505 Communications 721 505 556 932 1,041278,831 253,634
 238,702 176,643 167,829 Manufacturing 10,810 9,346 8,601 6,220 7,006 Mining 931 623 640 266 1,049 Oil and gas 3,898 3,456 3,466 3,678 4,280 Transportation 2,046 1,998 1,865 1,286 1,386 Utilities 1,303 1,165 838 1,101 1,197 Forest products 616 574 498 405 696 Service industries 16,824 13,452 11,982 8,605 8,879 Total Financial institutions 18,771 15,039 14,632 17,318 17,867 Government 1,662 1,272 782 580 6012013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Other3,830 7,308 6,120 5,051 4,760 112,629 101,841 96,595 77,808 77,712516 517 399 447 357 384 339 229 175 170900 856 628 622 527Table 14: Net Impaired
 Loans
 and Acceptances
 – 1,200 1,673 1,543 1,691 2,174 Segmented Information
 ($ millions) As at October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2,100 2,529 2,171 2,313 2,701Net Impaired Businesses and Governments
 Loans (1,485) (1,460) (1,452) (1,297) (1,306)Commercial mortgages 483 715 523 436 510 Commercial real estate 146 318 310 453 542 Construction (non-real estate) 21 38 2866
 9615 1,069 719 1,016 1,395 Retail trade 40 41 685640
 Wholesale trade 50 37 172748
 Agriculture 80 98 96 41100
 0.220.42 0.30 0.57 0.83 Communications – 5 71
 – Manufacturing 57 110 95 115 252 Mining 5 52––
 Oil and gas 30 1 21044
0.54 0.56 0.44 0.62 0.58 Transportation 17 30 332642
 Utilities – 2 22
 – 1.07 1.67 1.63 2.18 2.80 Forest products 19 23 357163
 Service industries 161 164 82 115 142 Financial institutions 58 66 179 217 363 (0.05)0.14 0.30 0.57 0.83 Government – – –2–
 Other 33 20 645319
 1,200 1,673 1,543 1,691 2,174 Supplemental Information BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 113          
    
   
  
    
               
    
  
   
      
     
     
  
      
     
     
     
     
      
    
     
                 
  
      
     
     
  
     
     
     
     
        
     
     
  
      
     
     
     
   
     
     
     
       
     
     
  
      
     
     
  
     
     
     
    
  
  
      
     
     
  
      
      
    
     
           
    
  
       
        
    
     
  
                
   
                
          
   
               
          
   
   
               
          
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 Table 15: Changes in
 Gross Impaired Loans –Segmented Information
 ($ millions) Canada United States Other countries As at October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Gross impaired loans and acceptances (GIL), beginning of year Consumer 338
 371 412
 417 315 646 388 309 194 91
 – – – – – Businesses and governments 548
 586 540
 533 488 1,401 1,326 1,551 1,967 1,403 43 14 82 186 90 Total GIL, beginning of year 886 957 952 950 803 2,047 1,714 1,860 2,161 1,494 43 14 82 186 90 Additions to impaired loans and acceptances Consumer 584
 533 573 567 6 637 764 333 374 110 – – – – – Businesses and governments 294 352 424 410 417 931 1,416 661 978 2,035 3 36 1 1 122 Total additions 878 885 997 977 423 1,568 2,180 994 1,352 2,145 3 36 1 1 122 Reductions to impaired loans and acceptances (3) Consumer (416)
 (386)
 (413)
 (352) 479
 (243)
 (45) 7 44
 294 – – – – – Businesses and governments (274) (314)
 (242) (287) (304)
 (973)
 (880)
 (597) (1,052) (731)
 (36) (6) (40) (103)
 (26) Total reductions due to net repayments and other (690)
 (700) (655)
 (639) 175 (1,216) (925)
 (590)
 (1,008) (437)
 (36) (6) (40) (103)
 (26) Write-offs Consumer (158)
 (180) (201) (220)
 (383) (338)
 (461)
 (261) (303) (301)
 – – – – – Businesses and governments (162)
 (76) (136) (116)
 (68) (278)
 (461) (289) (342)
 (740) (3) (1) (29) (2) – Total write-offs (320) (256)
 (337) (336)
 (451) (616) (922)
 (550) (645)
 (1,041) (3) (1) (29) (2) – Gross impaired loans and acceptances, end of year Consumer 348
 338 371
 412 417 702 646 388
 309 194 – – – – – Businesses and governments 406
 548 586
 540 533 1,081 1,401 1,326 1,551 1,967 7 43 14 82 186 Total GIL, end of year 754 886 957 952 950 1,783 2,047 1,714 1,860 2,161 7 43 14 82 186 Condition Ratios GIL as a % of Gross Loans (6) Consumer 0.24 0.26 0.31 0.48 0.56 3.12 3.03 1.74 2.03 1.17 – – – – – Businesses and governments 0.68 1.00 1.15 1.11 1.15 2.34 3.28 3.20 7.99 9.00 0.10 0.91 0.30 0.88 1.83 Total Loans and Acceptances 0.37 0.47 0.56 0.71 0.78 2.60 3.20 2.69 5.37 5.61 0.10 0.91 0.30 0.88 1.83 GIL as a % of equity and allowance for credit losses (2) (5) un un un un un un un un un un un un un un un GIL as a % of equity and allowance for credit losses excluding purchased portfolios (2) (5) un un un un un un un un un un un un un un un Supplemental Information 114 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013       
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
         
 Total 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 984 759 721 611 406
 1,992 1,926 2,173 2,686 1,981 2,976 2,685 2,894 3,297 2,387 1,221 1,297 906 941 116 1,228 1,804 1,086 1,389 2,574 2,449 3,101 1,992 2,330 2,690 (659) (431)
 (406)
 (308) 773
 (1,283)
 (1,200) (879)
 (1,442) (1,061) (1,942)
 (1,631) (1,285) (1,750) (288) (496)
 (641) (462) (523) (684)
 (443)
 (538) (454) (460)
 (808)
 (939) (1,179) (916) (983) (1,492) 1,050 984 759 721 611
 1,494 1,992 1,926 2,173 2,686 2,544 2,976 2,685 2,894 3,297 0.63 0.64 0.53 0.71 0.67 1.32 1.95 1.99 2.80 3.43 0.91 1.17 1.12 1.62 1.94 7.61 9.30 8.98 12.18 14.92 4.86 6.18 8.36 12.18 14.92 Supplemental Information BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 115           
       
   
  
    
               
     
   
                
  
                
     
               
    
                
  
      
     
     
     
     
     
     
                 
  
                
  
               
    
      
  
                         
     
     
     
     
    
    
  
        
          
           
   
     
          
    
       
     
     
  
      
     
     
     
               
     
   
      
  
      
   
                                     
                
        
    
        
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
            
       
   
  
    
               
   
    
               
  
               
  
               
  
   
                         
  
  
    
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
     
               
  
        
    
  
                 
            
   
                
        
    
                 
        
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 Table 16: Changes in
 Allowance
 for Credit Losses –Segmented Information
 ($ millions, except as noted) Canada United States Other Countries As at October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Allowance for credit losses (ACL),
 beginning of year Consumer 518 464 454 327 245 291 270 145 41 20 – – – – – Businesses and governments 450 468 473 503 463 659 797 859 970 978 18 12 42 61 41 Total ACL,
 beginning of year 968 932 927 830 708 950 1,067 1,004 1,011 998 18 12 42 61 41 Provision for credit losses Consumer 523 544 527 359 408 262 401 350 324 276 – – – – – Businesses and governments 133 90 152 126 109 (327) (267) 184 249 789 (2) (3) (1) (9) 21 Total provision for credit losses 656 634 679 485 517 (65)
 134 534 573 1,065 (2) (3) (1) (9) 21 Recoveries Consumer 81 91 80 76 57 95 125 61 61 47 – – – – – Businesses and governments (1) 4 1 (3) 1 597 626 99 49 40 – – – – – Total recoveries 80 95 81 73 58 692 751 160 110 87 – – – – – Write-offs Consumer 
Businesses and governments (509) 
(160) (564) (76) (587) 
(136) (430) 
(114) (383) (68) (347) (280)
 (492) (461) (289) (289) (322) (348) (302) (739) – (3) – (1) – (29) – (2) – – Total write-offs (669) (640) (723) (544) (451) (627)
 (953) (578) (670) (1,041) (3) (1) (29) (2) – Other, including foreign exchange rate changes 
Consumer 
Businesses and governments (11) 11 (17) 
(36) (10) 
(22) (14) 22 – (2) (23) 4 (13) 
(36) 3 (56) 39 (70) – (98) – (9) – 10 – – – (8) – (1) Total Other, including foreign exchange rate changes – (53) (32) 8 (2) (19)
 (49) (53) (31) (98) (9) 10 – (8) (1) ACL, end of year (4) Consumer 602 518 464 318 327 278 291 270 143 41 – – – – – Businesses and governments 433
 450 468 534 503
 653 659 797 850 970 4 18 12 42 61 Total ACL,
 end of year 1,035 968 932 852 830 931 950 1,067 993 1,011 4 18 12 42 61 Allocation of Write-offs by Market Consumer 
Businesses and governments Allocation of Recoveries by Market Consumer (509) 
(160) 81 (564) (76) 91 (587) 
(136) 80 (430) 
(114) 76 (383) (68) 57 (347) (280) 95 (492) (461) 125 (289) (289) 61 (322) (348) 61 (302) (739) 47 – (3) – – (1) – – (29) – – (2) – – – – Businesses and governments (1) 4 1 (3) 1 597 626 99 49 40 – – – – – Net write-offs as a % of average loans and acceptances (2) (6) Net write-offs as a % of average loans and acceptances excluding purchased portfolios (2) (6) un un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un un 
un Supplemental Information Table 17: Allocation of Allowance for Credit Losses – Segmented Information
 ($ millions, except as noted) Canada United States Other countries As at October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Consumer Residential mortgages Consumer instalment and other 27 36 38 42 33 52 30 34 10 – – – – – – personal loans 64 55 54 47 51 7 7 5 – – – – – – – Total consumer 91 91 92 89 84 59 37 39 10 – – – – – – Businesses and government Off-balance sheet 153 – 172 – 153 – 168 – 157 – 137 41 129 29 218 45 272 9 294 – 4 – 18 – 12 – 42 – 61 – Total specific allowances Collective allowance 244 791 263 
705 245 
687 257 
595 241 
589 237 
694 195 
755 302 
765 291 
702 294 
717 4 – 18 – 12 – 42 – 61 – Allowance for credit losses 1,035
 968 932 852 830 931 950 1,067 993 1,011 4 18 12 42 61 Coverage Ratios Allowance for credit losses as a % of gross impaired loans and acceptances (GIL) (2) Total 137.3 109.3 97.4 89.5 87.4 49.9 45.0 59.6 52.9 46.8 57.1 41.9 85.7 51.2 32.8 Consumer 26.2 27.0 24.8 21.6 20.1 8.4 5.7 10.1 3.2 – – ––––
 Businesses and government 37.7 31.3 26.1 31.1 29.5 12.7 9.2 16.4 17.5 14.9 57.1 41.9 85.7 51.2 32.8 Allowance for credit losses as a % of GIL excluding purchased portfolios (2) Total 137.3 109.3 97.4 89.5 87.4 82.9 63.6 60.1 52.9 46.8 57.1 41.9 85.7 51.2 32.8 116 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013      
    
    
     
    
    
     
    
    
    
     
     
     
     
     
     
    
    
     
     
     
    
    
     
     
     
   
   
    
    
  
    
    
     
     
     

     
       
       
 Total 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009809 734 599 368 2651,127 1,277 1,374 1,534 1,4821,936 2,011 1,973 1,902 1,747 785 945 877 683 684(196) (180) 335 366 919589 765 1,212 1,049 1,603 176 216 141 137 104596 630 100 46 41772 846 241 183 145(856) (1,056) (876) (752) (685) (443)
 (538) (454) (464) (807) (1,299)
 (1,594) (1,330) (1,216) (1,492) (34) (30) (7) 25 – 6 (62) (78) (56) (101) (28) (92) (85) (31) (101) 880 809 734 461 3681,090 1,127 1,277 1,426 1,5341,970 1,936 2,011 1,887 1,902 (856) (1,056) (876) (752) (685) (443)
 (538) (454) (464) (807) 176 216 141 137 104596 630 100 46 410.20 0.30 0.51 0.60 0.70 0.30 0.43 0.52 0.60 0.70 Total 2013 2012 2011 2010 200979 6672
 52 3371 6259
 47 51150 128 131 99 84294 319 383 482 51241 29459
 –485 476 559 590 5961,485 1,460 1,452 1,297 1,3061,970 1,936 2,011 1,887 1,902 75.8 64.1 73.2 64.9 57.7 14.3 13.1 17.3 13.7 13.7 19.7 16.0 19.9 22.2 19.1 Supplemental Information 108.2 83.7 74.5 64.9 57.7 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 117            
    
    
       
  
   
  
        
        
       
       
                                
           
        
       
       
                          
  
             
    
      
        
                 
       
       
   
   
     
   
     
   
    
   
    
    
       
     
    
       
     
     
   
           
     
  
       
   
     
       
  
   
    
     
          
     
     
          
        
     
   
          
          
    
       
          
    
  
          
   
             
Supplemental Information SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 Table 18: Specific Allowances for Credit
 Losses –Segmented Information
 ($ millions) As at October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Business and Governments
 Specific Allowances by Industry Commercial mortgages 36 53 45 55 29 Commercial real estate 32 55 102 65 76 Construction (non-real estate) 25 21 16 40 7 Retail trade 12 13 13 12 8 Wholesale trade 23 6 8 23 28 Agriculture 9 8 8 17 19 Communications – 1 – 1 – Manufacturing 28 59 37 85 129 Mining 3 – – – – Oil and gas 1 2 3 2 6 Transportation 4 1 9 9 21 Utilities – 1 – – – Forest products 11 15 14 15 22 Service industries 50 65 45 51 43 Financial institutions 29 8 63 101 113 Government 1 1 2 2 2 Other 30 10 18 4 9 Total specific allowances for credit losses on businesses and governments loans (7) 294 319 383 482 512 Table 19: Provision for Credit Losses – Segmented Information
 ($ millions) For the year ended October 31 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Consumer Residential mortgages 129 132 109 107 104 Cards 307 356 376 194 174 Consumer instalment and other personal loans 313 387 291 329 372 Total consumer 749 875 776 630 650 Businesses and Governments
 Commercial mortgages (116) (15) 109 87 114 Commercial real estate (118) (87) 70 91 277 Construction (non-real estate) 37 (12) 20 48 31 Retail trade 3 (1) 7 22 7 Wholesale trade 15 (16) (1) 9 44 Agriculture 6 2 7 8 10 Communications (6) (5) (9) 8 3 Manufacturing (3) 23 47 9 237 Mining 2 (1) – – – Oil and gas – – 1 (1) 7 Transportation (8) 5 7 18 32 Utilities – – – – – Forest products 2 6 4 (4) 17 Service industries 11 26 31 59 50 Financial institutions (17) (29) 45 66 62 Government (6) – – – 1 Other 48 (9) 12 (1) 1 Total businesses and governments (150) (113) 350 419 893 Total specific provisions 599 762 1,126 1,049 1,543 Collective provision for credit losses (10) 3 86
 – 60
 Total provision for credit losses 589 765 1,212 1,049 1,603 Adjusted provision for credit losses (8) 359 471 1,108 1,049 1,543 Performance Ratios (%) PCL-to-average net loans and acceptances (2) (6) 0.22 0.31 0.56 0.61 0.88 PCL-to-segmented average net loans and acceptances (6) Consumer 0.49 0.62 0.57 0.66 0.70 Businesses and governments (0.18) (0.15) 0.45 0.55 1.00 Specific PCL-to-average net loans and acceptances 0.23 0.31 0.52 0.61 0.85 PCL-to-average net loans and acceptances excluding purchased portfolios (2) (6) 0.32 0.42 0.55 0.61 0.88 Adjusted PCL-to-average net loans and acceptances (2) (6) 0.14 0.21 0.54 0.61 0.85 118 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013      
    
     
     
  
       
    
          
          
         
         
         
   
        
   
         
         
         
          
     
        
   
         
         
         
         
  
        
          
     
        
     
        
        
     
  
        
     
    
    
  
   
    
  
   
    
  
   
    
  
   
    
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
    
  
   
    
  
   
    
  
    
    
  
     
  
    
  
   
   
    
  
   
    
  
   
    
  
   
    
  
  
  
    
  
    
    
  
     
  
    
  
     
  
    
  
                    
         
          
    
                        
      
                 
   
    
                
                   
        
          
  
     
     
      
            
    
      
   
         
 Table 20: European Lending Exposure
 (1) by Country and
 Counterparty (Canadian $ in millions) As at October 31, 2013 Lending (2) Commitments Funded Country Bank Corporate Sovereign Total Bank Corporate Sovereign Total GIIPS Greece – – – – – – – – Ireland (5) – – – – – – – – Italy 2 – – 2 2 – – 2 Portugal – – – – – – – – Spain 77 – – 77 77 – – 77 Total – GIIPS 79 – – 79 79 – – 79 Eurozone (excluding GIIPS) France 22 – – 22 22 – – 22 Germany 17 4 – 21 17 4 – 21 Netherlands 28 310 – 338 28 135 – 163 Other (6) 293 128 – 421 222 34 – 256 Total – Eurozone (excluding GIIPS) 360 442 – 802 289 173 – 462 Rest of Europe Denmark 15 – – 15 15 – – 15 Norway 16 – – 16 16 – – 16 Sweden 23 98 – 121 23 41 – 64 Switzerland 3 543 – 546 3 160 – 163 United Kingdom 333 152 – 485 152 70 – 222 Other (6) 450 26 – 476 450 26 – 476 Total – Rest of Europe 840 819 – 1,659 659 297 – 956 Total – All of Europe 1,279 1,261 – 2,540 1,027 470 – 1,497 Table 21:EuropeanSecuritiesExposure
 (1) byCountryandCounterparty
 (Canadian $ in millions) As at October 31, 2013 Securities (3) Gross Net Country Bank Corporate Sovereign (4) Total Bank Corporate Sovereign (4) Total GIIPS 
Greece – – – – – – – – Ireland – – 26 26 – – – – Italy 57 23 116 196 – – – – Portugal – – 130 130 – – – – Spain 42 41 42 125 – – – – Total – GIIPS 99 64 314 477 – – – – Eurozone (excluding GIIPS) France 32 108 494 634 – – 494 494 Germany 135 213 1,312 1,660 – 35 1,312 1,347 Netherlands 626 80 105 811 626 6 105 737 Other (6) 34 29 277 340 – 1 200 201 Total – Eurozone (excluding GIIPS) 827 430 2,188 3,445 626 42 2,111 2,779 Rest of Europe Denmark 532 2 592 1,126 532 – 592 1,124 Norway 1,250 – – 1,250 1,250 – – 1,250 Sweden 276 4 – 280 276 – – 276 Switzerland 11 37 – 48 – – – – United Kingdom 60 223 82 365 – 40 82 122 Other (6) – – 341 341 – – – – Total – Rest of Europe 2,129 266 1,015 3,410 2,058 40 674 2,772 Total – All of Europe 3,055 760 3,517 7,332 2,684 82 2,785 5,551 (1) BMO also has exposure to entities in a number of European countries through our credit protection vehicle, U.S. customer securitization vehicle and
 structured investment vehicle. These exposures are not included in the tables due to the credit protection incorporated in their structures. (2) Lending includes loans and trade finance. Amounts are net of write-offs and gross of specific allowances, both of which are not considered material.
 (3) Securities include cash products, insurance investments and traded credit. Gross traded credit includes only the long positions and excludes offsetting
 short positions. (4) Sovereign includes sovereign-backed bank cash products. (5) Does not include our Irish subsidiary’s reserves with the Irish Central Bank of $86 million. (6) Includes countries with less than $500 million in gross exposure. Other Eurozone includes exposures to Austria, Belgium, Finland, Luxembourg, Slovakia
 and Slovenia. Other Europe includes exposures to Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Iceland, Poland and Russian Federation. (7) Repo-style transactions are all with bank counterparties. (8) Derivatives amounts are marked-to-market, incorporating transaction netting and, for counterparties where a Credit Support Annex is in effect,
 collateral offsets. Derivative replacement risk net of collateral for all of Europe is approximately $2.7 billion. Supplemental Information BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 119          
    
     
     
   
  
    
    
    
    
   
            
   
          
  
         
          
   
           
           
           
            
     
          
   
           
           
           
           
  
          
            
     
          
     
          
        
  
     
     
   
          
   
   
     
          
        
       
     
    
        
    
   
            
     
   
       
   
       
      
         
    
   
   
       
   
     
           
      
   
       
   
   
     
     
        
         
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION
 Table 22: European Repo and Derivatives Exposure (1) by Country and
 Counterparty (Canadian $ in millions) As at October 31, 2013 Repo-style transactions (7) Derivatives (8) Gross Net of collateral Gross Net of collateral Country Total Total Bank Corporate Sovereign Total Bank Corporate Sovereign Total Supplemental Information GIIPS Greece – –––
 ––––
 ––
 Ireland 27 132
 1 –33
 3 1 –4
 Italy 54 –5–
 –51–
 –1
 Portugal – ––
 – –––
 – ––
 Spain – –7–
 –71–
 –1
 Total – GIIPS 81 1 44 1 – 45 5 1 – 6 Eurozone (excluding GIIPS) France 2,966 9 190 – – 190 45 – – 45 Germany 1,098 2 54 – – 54 30 – – 30 Netherlands 1,112 4 51 1 – 52 14 1 – 15 Other (6) 23
 2 61
 – 1 62
 12
 – 1 13
 Total – Eurozone (excluding GIIPS) 5,199 17 356 1 1 358 101 1 1 103 Rest of Europe Denmark 69 – 7 – – 7 7 – – 7 Norway – – – – – – – – – – Sweden 111 – 1 – – 1 – – – – Switzerland 330 7 3 – – 3 19 – – 19 United Kingdom 3,534 50 238 10 3 251 79 10 – 89 Other (6) – – – – – – – – – – Total – Rest of Europe 4,044 57 249 10 3 262 105 10 – 115 Total – All of Europe 9,324 75 649 12 4 665 211 12 1 224 Table 23: Basel III Regulatory Capital (All-in basis) ($ millions) As at October 31, 2013 Common Equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves Directly issued qualifying common share capital plus related stock surplus 12,318 Retained earnings 15,224 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves) 602 Goodwill and other intangibles (net of related tax liability) (4,910)
 Other common equity Tier 1 capital deductions (2,007)
 Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) 21,227 Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments Directly issued capital instruments subject to phase-out from Additional Tier 1 3,770 Additional Tier 1 instruments (and CET1 instruments not otherwise included) issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties (amount allowed in group AT1) 11 of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out 11 Total regulatory adjustments applied to Additional Tier 1 capital (409) Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1) 3,372 Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 24,599 Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions Directly issued capital instruments subject to phase-out from Tier 2 4,444 Tier 2 instruments (and CET1 and AT1 instruments not included) issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties (amount allowed in group Tier 2) 176 of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to phase-out 176 Collective allowances 331 Total regulatory adjustments to Tier 2 capital (50) Tier 2 capital (T2) 4,901 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 29,500 120 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Mortgagebackedsecurities
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
       
   
    
   
      
    
  
    
    
    
   
   
  
   
    
   
    
    
   
    
    
   
  
     
   
    
   
     
   
    
   
   
   
    
   
     
  
   
    
   
   
     
    
   
    
    
   
  
   
    
   
    
    
   
     
   
   
    
   
       
  
    
    
   
   
   
    
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
        
          
                  
  
    
     
             
    
    
    
     
     
    
  
   
  
    
   
  
      
     
      
     
          
         
     
           
   
  
    
     
           
     
           
   
  
    
     
                           
    
          
               
  
               
             
            
      
  
  
    
    
        
  
   
       
   
       
    
       
   
   
   
  
       
  
   
   
   
     
      
       
      
                   
  
                
       
 Table 24: Risk-Weighted Assets
 ($ millions) Basel III Basel II Exposure at Default Risk-weighted assets Risk-weighted assets Standardized Advanced 2013 Standardized Advanced 2013 Exposure Standardized Advanced 2012 As at October 31 Approach Approach (2) Total Approach Approach Total at Default Approach Approach (2) Total Credit Risk Wholesale Corporate, including specialized lending 15,501 141,345 156,846 16,559 62,112 78,671 145,802 26,563 44,278 70,841 Corporate small and medium-sized enterprises – 57,406 57,406 – 26,594 26,594 46,541 – 22,120 22,120 Sovereign 67 67,810 67,877 – 904 904 59,691 – 645 645 Bank 219 29,825 30,044 44 4,404 4,448 53,318 2 4,851 4,853 RetailResidential mortgages, excludinghome equity line of credit 4,163 84,434 88,597 2,225 6,486 8,711 78,113 2,966 5,612 8,578 Home equity line of credit 1,532 41,291 42,823 841 5,738 6,579 42,320 1,317 6,408 7,725 Qualifying revolving retail – 33,314 33,314 – 4,580 4,580 42,204 – 5,622 5,622 Other retail, excluding small and medium-sized enterprises 3,206 23,962 27,168 2,097 10,313 12,410 24,520 2,372 9,141 11,513 Retail small and medium-sized enterprises 337 3,220 3,557 266 1,269 1,535 3,159 79 1,056 1,135 Equity – 1,887 1,887 – 1,366 1,366 1,942 – 1,359 1,359 Trading book 58 72,239 72,297 50 6,087 6,137 69,340 223 6,109 6,332 Securitization – 22,407 22,407 – 4,598 4,598 29,454 – 6,796 6,796 Other credit risk assets – non<counterparty managed assets – 73,229 73,229 – 14,822 14,822 72,700 – 17,596 17,596 Scaling factor for credit risk assets under AIRB Approach (1) – – – – 7,934 7,934 – – 6,840 6,840 Total Credit Risk 25,083 652,369 677,452 22,082 157,207 179,289 669,104 33,522 138,433 171,955 Market Risk 2,358 6,796 9,154 2,263 5,335 7,598 Operational Risk 26,651 – 26,651 25,677 – 25,677 Total Risk-Weighted Assets 51,091 164,003 215,094 61,462 143,768 205,230 (1) The scaling factor is applied to the risk-weighted assets amounts for credit risk under the AIRB Approach. (2) The AIRB Approach RWA for BMO Harris Bank is adjusted to a transitional floor based on the Standardized Approach. Table 25: Average Deposits ($ millions, except
 as
 noted) 2013 2012 2011 Average Average Average Average Average Average balance rate paid (%) balance rate paid (%) balance rate paid (%) Deposits Booked in Canada Demand deposits – interest bearing 16,050 0.47 15,292 0.44 17,489 0.41 Demand deposits – non-interest bearing 24,365 – 23,343 – 21,620 – Payable after notice 71,820 0.68 60,116 0.61 49,282 0.53 Payable on a fixed date 98,631
 1.56 92,314 1.65 89,469 1.90 Total deposits booked in Canada 210,866
 1.00 191,065 1.02 177,860 1.14 Deposits Booked in the United States and Other Countries Banks located in the United States and other countries 9,308 0.71 9,213 0.58 8,619 0.53 Governments and institutions in the United States and other countries 9,283 0.42 8,381 0.35 9,909 0.54 Other demand deposits 9,305 0.03 7,546 0.02 4,497 0.03 Other deposits payable after notice or on a fixed date 117,446
 0.36 105,212 0.51 70,874 0.79 Total deposits booked in the United States and other countries 145,342
 0.37 130,352 0.48 93,899 0.70 Total average deposits 356,208
 0.74 321,417 0.80 271,759 0.99 As at October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011: deposits by foreign depositors in our Canadian bank offices amounted to $25,563 million, $24,693 million and $18,237
 million, respectively; total deposits payable after notice included $31,700 million, $24,607 million and $24,995 million, respectively, of chequing accounts that would have been classified as demand
 deposits under U.S. reporting requirements; and total deposits payable on a fixed date included $21,953 million, $16,630 million and $17,365 million, respectively, of federal funds purchased, commercial
 paper issued and other deposit liabilities. These amounts would have been classified as short-term borrowings for U.S. reporting purposes. Table 26: Unrealized Gains (Losses)
 on
 Available-for-Sale
 Securities ($ millions) Unrealized gains (losses) (2) As at October 31 Amortized cost Fair value (1) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Canadian governments debt 16,696 16,813 117 265 441 322 146 U.S. governments debt 10,013 10,052 39 165 246 293 70 Mortgage-backed securities – Canada 2,271 2,277 6 3 18 284 247 – United States 6,535 6,528 (7) 64104
 31 28 Corporate debt 9,569 9,676 107 151 41 116 123 Corporate equity 1,411 1,558 147 5670
 24 (6) Other governments debt 6,165 6,163 (2) 5 5 2947
 Supplemental Information Total available-for-sale securities 52,660 53,067 407 709 925 1,099 655 2010 and prior based on CGAAP. (1) Available-for-sale securities are reflected in the balance sheet at fair value. Unrealized gains (losses) are included in other comprehensive income.
 (2) Unrealized gains (losses) may be offset by related losses (gains) on liabilities or hedge contracts. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 121 Statement of Management’s
 Responsibilityfor Financial
 InformationManagement of Bank of Montreal (the “bank”) is responsible for preparation and presentation of the annual consolidated financial statements, Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) and all other information in the Annual Report. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and the applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in the United States. The financial statements also comply with the provisions of the Bank Act (Canada) and related regulations, including interpretations of IFRS by our regulator, the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada. The MD&A
 has been prepared in accordance with
 the requirements
 of securities regulators, including
 National Instrument 51-102 of the Canadian Securities Administrators (“CSA”)
 as well as Item 303 of Regulation S-K under
 the United
 States
 Securities Act of
 1933 and the
 Securities Exchange Act of
 1934, and their
 related published
 requirements. The consolidated financial statements and information in the MD&A necessarily include amounts based on informed judgments and estimates of the expected effects of current events and transactions with appropriate consideration to materiality. In addition, in preparing the financial information we must interpret the requirements described above, make determinations as to the relevancy of information to be included, and make estimates and assumptions that affect reported information. The MD&A also includes information regarding the impact of current transactions and events, sources of liquidity and capital resources, operating trends, risks and uncertainties. Actual results in the future may differ materially from our present assessment of this information because events and circumstances in the future may not occur as expected. The financial information presented in the bank’s Annual Report is consistent with that in the consolidated financial statements. In meeting our responsibility for the reliability and timeliness of financial information, we maintain and rely on a comprehensive system of internal controls and internal audit, including organizational and procedural controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and internal control over financial reporting. Our system of internal controls includes written communication of our policies and procedures governing corporate conduct and risk management; comprehensive business planning; effective segregation of duties; delegation of authority and personal accountability; escalation of relevant information for decisions regarding public disclosure; careful selection and training of personnel; and accounting policies that we regularly update. This structure ensures appropriate internal controls over transactions, assets and records. We also regularly audit internal controls. These controls and audits are designed to provide us with reasonable assurance that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial statements and other financial information, assets are safeguarded against unauthorized use or disposition, liabilities are recognized, and we are in compliance with all regulatory requirements. As at October 31, 2013, we, as the bank’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have determined that the bank’s internal control over financial reporting is effective. We have certified Bank of Montreal’s annual filings with the CSA and with the SEC pursuant to National Instrument 52-109 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In order to provide their audit opinions on our consolidated financial statements and on the bank’s internal control over financial reporting, the Shareholders’ Auditors audit our system of internal controls and conduct work to the extent that they consider appropriate. Their audit opinion on the bank’s internal control over financial reporting is set forth on page 124. The Board of Directors, based on recommendations from its Audit and Conduct Review Committee, reviews and approves the financial information contained in the Annual Report, including the MD&A. The Board of Directors and its relevant committees oversee management’s responsibilities for the preparation and presentation of financial information, maintenance of appropriate internal controls, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, management and control of major risk areas, and assessment of significant and related party transactions. The Audit and Conduct Review Committee, which is comprised entirely of independent directors, is also responsible for selecting the Shareholders’ Auditors and reviewing the qualifications, independence and performance of both the Shareholders’ Auditors and internal audit. The Shareholders’ Auditors and the bank’s Chief Auditor have full and free access to the Board of Directors, its Audit and Conduct Review Committee and other relevant committees to discuss audit, financial reporting and related matters. The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada conducts examinations and inquiries into the affairs of the bank as are deemed necessary to ensure that the provisions of the Bank Act, with respect to the safety of the depositors, are being duly observed and that the bank is in sound financial condition. William A. Downe Thomas E. Flynn Chief Financial Officer Toronto, Canada Chief Executive Officer December 3, 2013 122 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Independent Auditors’ Report of Registered Public Accounting FirmTo the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Bank of Montreal We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Bank of Montreal (the “bank”), which comprise the consolidated balance sheets as at October 31, 2013 and October 31, 2012, the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 2013, and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves
 performing
 procedures
 to
 obtain
 audit evidence
 about the
 amounts and
 disclosures in
 the
 consolidated financial statements. The
 procedures selected depend on our judgment,
 including the assessment
 of
 the
 risks of
 material
 misstatement
 of
 the
 consolidated financial statements,
 whether due
 to fraud or
 error.
 In making those risk assessments, we
 consider
 internal
 control
 relevant to the entity’s
 preparation and
 fair presentation of the consolidated
 financial statements in order to
 design
 audit
 procedures that are appropriate
 in
 the
 circumstances.
 An
 audit
 also includes evaluating the appropriateness
 of
 accounting policies used
 and
 the reasonableness of
 accounting
 estimates made by management, as
 well
 as
 evaluating
 the
 overall presentation
 of
 the consolidated
 financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained in our audits is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the bank as at October 31, 2013 and October 31, 2012, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 2013 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Other Matter We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the bank’s internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2013, based on the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”), and our report dated December 3, 2013 expressed an unmodified (unqualified) opinion on the effectiveness of the bank’s internal control over financial reporting. Chartered Accountants, Licensed Public Accountants December 3, 2013 Toronto, Canada BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 123 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting FirmTo the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Bank of Montreal We have audited Bank of Montreal’s (the “bank”) internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). The bank’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included under the heading “Management’s Annual Report on Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Internal Control over Financial Reporting” in the accompanying “Management’s Discussion and Analysis”. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Bank’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company’s
 internal control over
 financial reporting is
 a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
 regarding the reliability of
 financial reporting and the
 preparation of
 financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
 generally accepted accounting
 principles. A company’s internal
 control
 over financial reporting includes those policies
 and
 procedures that (1) pertain
 to the maintenance
 of records that,
 in reasonable detail, accurately and
 fairly reflect the
 transactions and dispositions of
 the assets of the company;
 (2)
 provide reasonable assurance that
 transactions
 are
 recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
 financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
 principles, and
 that receipts and expenditures
 of
 the
 company are
 being made
 only
 in
 accordance
 with authorizations of management and directors
 of the company;
 and
 (3) provide
 reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
 unauthorized
 acquisition, use, or disposition of
 the
 company’s assets
 that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of
 its
 inherent limitations, internal
 control
 over financial reporting may
 not prevent
 or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
 future periods
 are subject
 to the risk that
 controls may become
 inadequate
 because
 of changes in
 conditions,
 or that the degree
 of
 compliance
 with
 the
 policies or
 procedures
 may
 deteriorate. In our opinion, the bank maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). We also have audited, in accordance with Canadian generally accepted auditing standards and the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the bank as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 2013, and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, and our report dated December 3, 2013 expressed an unmodified (unqualified) opinion on those consolidated financial statements. Chartered Accountants, Licensed Public Accountants December 3, 2013 Toronto, Canada 124 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Consolidated Statement of Income
 For the Year Ended October 31 (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 2013 2012 2011 Interest, Dividend and Fee Income Loans Securities (Note 3) Deposits with banks $ 10,746 2,143 244 $ 11,141 2,265 239 $ 10,203 2,176 145 13,133 13,645 12,524 Interest Expense Deposits 
Subordinated debt 2,633 145 2,578 165 2,693 157 Capital trust securities (Note 18) Other liabilities 47 1,763 51 2,043 76 2,124 4,588 4,837 5,050 Net Interest Income 8,545 8,808 7,474 Non-Interest Revenue Securities commissions and fees Deposit and payment service charges Trading revenues Lending fees Card fees 1,182 916 
849 
715 
724 1,146 929 1,025 641 
708 1,215 834 
549 
593 
689 Investment management and custodial fees Mutual fund revenues 726 
799 725 
647 496 
633 Underwriting and advisory fees Securities gains, other than trading (Note 3) Foreign exchange, other than trading Insurance income 488 285 172 
445 442 152 153 
335 512 189 130 
283 Other 417 419 346 7,718 7,322 6,469 Total Revenue 16,263 16,130 13,943 Provision for Credit Losses (Note 4) 589 765 1,212 Non-Interest Expense Employee compensation (Notes 22 and 23) Premises and equipment (Note 11) Amortization of intangible assets (Note 13) Travel and business development Communications 5,827 
1,877 352 
514 
291 5,628 
1,916 339 
491 
301 4,827 
1,578 231 
382 
259 Business and capital taxes Professional fees 39 527 46 593 51 624 Other 870 924 789 10,297 10,238 8,741 Income Before Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes (Note 24) 5,377 1,129 5,127 938 3,990 876 Net Income $ 4,248 $ 4,189 $ 3,114 Attributable to: Bank shareholders 4,183 4,115 3,041 Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (Note 18) 65 74 73 Net Income $ 4,248 $ 4,189 $ 3,114 Earnings Per Share (Canadian $) (Note 25) Basic $ 6.27 $ 6.18 $ 4.90 Diluted 6.26 6.15 4.84 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Consolidated Financial Statements William A. Downe Philip S. Orsino Chief Executive Officer Chairman, Audit and Conduct Review Committee BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 125 Consolidated Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
 Income For the Year Ended October 31 (Canadian $ in millions)2013 2012 2011 Net income Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Net change in unrealized (losses) on available-for-sale securities Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities arising during the year (1) Reclassification to earnings of (gains) in the year (2) $ 4,248 (10) (50) $ 4,189 24 (81) $ 3,114 18 (104) (60) (57) (86) Net change in unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges arising during the year (3) Reclassification to earnings of (gains) on cash flow hedges (4) (25) (125) (62) (107) 328 (21) (150) (169) 307 Net gain on translation of net foreign operations Unrealized gain (loss) on translation of net foreign operations Impact of hedging unrealized gain (loss) on translation of net foreign operations (5) 741 (409) 75 (35) (90) 123 332 40 33 Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 122 (186) 254 Total Comprehensive Income $ 4,370 $ 4,003 $ 3,368 Attributable to: Bank shareholders 4,305 3,929 3,295 Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (Note 18) 65 74 73 Total Comprehensive Income $ 4,370 $ 4,003 $ 3,368 (1) Net of income tax (provision) recovery of $9 million, $(13) million and $(11) million for the(4) Net of income tax provision of $45 million, $38 million and $9 million for the years ended, years ended, respectively. respectively. (2) Net of income tax provision of $22 million, $39 million and $51 million for the years ended,(5) Net of income tax (provision) recovery of $146 million, $13 million and $(26) million for the respectively. years ended, respectively. (3) Net of income tax (provision) recovery of $12 million, $10 million and $(137) million for the The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. years ended, respectively. 126 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Consolidated Balance Sheet As at October 31 (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Assets Cash and Cash Equivalents (Note 2) $ 26,083 $ 19,941 Interest Bearing Deposits with Banks (Note 2) 6,518 6,341 Securities (Note 3) Trading Available-for-sale Held-to-maturity 
Other 75,159 53,067 6,032 723 70,109 56,382 875 
958 134,981 128,324 Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Resale Agreements (Note 4) 39,799 47,011 Loans (Notes 4 and 8) Residential mortgages Consumer instalment and other personal Credit cards Businesses and governments 99,328 63,640 7,870 101,450 87,870 61,436 7,814 90,402 Customers’ liability under acceptances Allowance for credit losses (Note 4) 272,288 8,472 (1,665) 247,522 8,019 (1,706) 279,095 253,835 Other Assets Derivative instruments (Note 10) Premises and equipment (Note 11) Goodwill (Note 13) Intangible assets (Note 13) Current tax assets Deferred tax assets (Note 24) Other (Note 14) 30,259 2,191 
3,893 
1,530 
1,065 2,914 8,971 48,071 2,120 
3,717 
1,552 
1,293 2,906 10,338 50,823 69,997 Total Assets $ 537,299 $ 525,449 Liabilities and Equity Deposits (Note 15) Banks Businesses and governments Individuals $ 20,591 220,798 
125,432 $ 18,102 186,570 
119,030 366,821 323,702 Other Liabilities Derivative instruments (Note 10) Acceptances (Note 16) Securities sold but not yet purchased (Note 16) Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements (Note 16) Current tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities (Note 24) Other (Note 16) 31,974 8,472 22,446 
28,884 443 107 42,212 48,736 8,019 23,439 
39,737 404 171 46,596 134,538 167,102 Subordinated Debt (Note 17) 3,996 4,093 Capital Trust Securities (Note 18) Equity 
Share capital (Note 20) Contributed surplus Retained earnings Accumulated other comprehensive income Total shareholders’ equity Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries (Note 20) 463 14,268 315 15,224 602 30,409 1,072 462 14,422 213 13,540 480 28,655 1,435 Consolidated Financial Statements Total Equity 31,481 30,090 Total Liabilities and Equity $ 537,299 $ 525,449 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform
 with the current year’s presentation. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 127 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Consolidated Statement of Changes
 in Equity For the Year Ended October 31 (Canadian $ in millions)2013 2012 2011 Consolidated Financial Statements Preferred Shares (Note 20) Balance at beginning of year Issued during the year Redeemed during the year $ 2,465 – (200) $ 2,861 – (396) $ 2,571 290 – Balance at End of Year 2,265 2,465 2,861 Common Shares (Note 20) Balance at beginning of year Issued under the Shareholder Dividend Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan (Note 20) Issued under the Stock Option Plan (Note 22) Repurchased for cancellation (Note 20) Issued on the exchange of shares of a subsidiary corporation Issued on the acquisition of a business 11,957 130 116 (200) – 
– 11,332 543 80 – 2 – 6,927 179 
122 – 1 4,103 Balance at End of Year 12,003 11,957 11,332 Contributed Surplus Balance at beginning of year Stock option expense/exercised (Note 22) Foreign exchange on redemption of preferred shares (Note 20) 213 (5) 107 113 4 96 91 22 – Balance at End of Year 315 213 113 Retained Earnings Balance at beginning of year 13,540 11,381 10,181 Net income attributable to bank shareholders 4,183 4,115 3,041 Dividends – Preferred shares (Note 20) (120) (136) (146) – Common shares (Note 20) (1,904) (1,820) (1,690) Common shares repurchased for cancellation (475) –– Share issue expense – – (5) Balance at End of Year 15,224 13,540 11,381 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on Available-for-Sale Securities Balance at beginning of year 265 322 408 Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities arising during the year (1) (10) 24 18 Reclassification to earnings of (gains) in the year (2) (50) (81) (104) Balance at End of Year 205 265 322 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on Cash Flow Hedges Balance at beginning of year 142 311 4 Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges arising during the year (3) (25) (62) 328 Reclassification to earnings of (gains) on cash flow hedges (4) (125) (107) (21) Balance at End of Year (8) 142 311 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income on Translation of Net Foreign Operations Balance at beginning of year 73 33 – Unrealized gain (loss) on translation of net foreign operations 741 75 (90) Impact of hedging unrealized gain (loss) on translation of net foreign operations (5) (409) (35) 123 Balance at End of Year 405 73 33 Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 602 480 666 Total Shareholders’
 Equity $ 30,409 $ 28,655 $ 26,353 Non-controlling Interest in Subsidiaries Balance at beginning of year 1,435 1,483 1,501 Net income attributable to non-controlling interest 65 74 73 Dividends to non-controlling interest (73) (73) (71) Preferred share redemption (Note 20) (359) – – Other 4 (49) (20) Balance at End of Year 1,072 1,435 1,483 Total Equity $ 31,481 $ 30,090 $ 27,836 (1) Net of income tax (provision) recovery of $9 million, $(13) million and $(11) million for the(4) Net of income tax provision of $45 million, $38 million and $9 million for the year ended, year ended, respectively. respectively. (2) Net of income tax provision of $22 million, $39 million and $51 million for the year ended,(5) Net of income tax (provision) recovery of $146 million, $13 million and $(26) million for the respectively. year ended, respectively. (3) Net of income tax (provision) recovery of $12 million, $10 million and $(137) million for theThe accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. year ended, respectively. 128 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the Year Ended October 31 (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 2011 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net Income $ 4,248 $ 4,189 $ 3,114 Adjustments to determine net cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities Impairment write-down of securities, other than trading (Note 3) 17 5 4 Net (gain) on securities, other than trading (Note 3) (302) (157) (193) Net (increase) decrease in trading securities (4,392) (251) 1,987 Provision for credit losses (Note 4) 589 765 1,212 Change in derivative instruments – (Increase) decrease in derivative asset 20,240 6,651 (6,621) – Increase (decrease) in derivative liability (19,195) (1,840) 4,015 Amortization of premises and equipment (Note 11) 360 364 307 Amortization of intangible assets (Note 13) 352 339 231 Net decrease in deferred income tax asset 96 486 163 Net (decrease) in deferred income tax liability (65) (143) (245) Net decrease in current income tax asset 389 37 109 Net increase (decrease) in current income tax liability 25 (182) 27 Change in accrued interest – (Increase) decrease in interest receivable 122 10 (19) – Increase (decrease) in interest payable (129) (109) 62 Changes in other items and accruals, net (516) (6,240) (270) Net increase in deposits 35,724 19,331 15,129 Net (increase) in loans (21,479) (14,972) (4,917) Net increase (decrease) in securities sold but not yet purchased (1,221) 3,243 6,143 Net increase (decrease) in securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements (12,090) 8,092 (8,648) Net (increase) decrease in securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 8,660 (9,360) (9,974) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 11,433 10,258 1,616 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net (decrease) in liabilities of subsidiaries (397) (637) (3,466) Proceeds from issuance (maturities) of Covered Bonds (1,354) 2,000 3,495 Proceeds from issuance (repayment) of subordinated debt (Note 17) – (1,200) 1,500 Redemption of preferred shares (200) (396) – Proceeds from issuance of preferred shares – – 290 Redemption of securities of a subsidiary (Note 20) (359) ––
 Redemption of Capital Trust Securities (Note 18) – (400) (400) Share issue expense – – (5) Proceeds from issuance of common shares (Note 20) 122 88 129 Common shares repurchased for cancellation (Note 20) (675) ––
 Cash dividends paid (1,896) (1,419) (1,663) Cash dividends paid to non-controlling interest (73) (73) (71) Net Cash (Used in) Financing Activities (4,832) (2,037) (191) Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net (increase) decrease in interest bearing deposits with banks 43 (347) 967 Purchases of securities, other than trading (32,007) (37,960) (27,093) Maturities of securities, other than trading 13,233 12,672 11,958 Proceeds from sales of securities, other than trading 17,288 18,868 15,869 Premises and equipment – net purchases (377) (366) (368) Purchased and developed software – net purchases (259) (313) (271) Purchase of Troubled Asset Relief Program preferred shares and warrants – – (1,642) Acquisitions (Note 12) 140 (21) 677 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities (1,939) (7,467) 97 Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents 1,480 (489) 694 Net increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents 6,142 265 2,216 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 19,941 19,676 17,460 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $ 26,083 $ 19,941 $ 19,676 Represented by: Cash and non-interest bearing deposits with Bank of Canada and other banks $ 24,593 $ 18,347 $ 18,320 Cheques and other items in transit, net 1,490 1,594 1,356 $ 26,083 $ 19,941 $ 19,676 Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information Net cash provided by operating activities includes: Amount of interest paid in the year $ 4,707 $ 4,948 $ 4,951 Amount of income taxes paid in the year $ 577 $ 654 $ 787 Amount of interest and dividend income received in the year $ 13,150 $ 13,555 $ 12,438 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform
 with the current year’s presentation. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 129 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Notes to Consolidated
 Financial StatementsNotes Note 1: Basis of Presentation
 Bank of Montreal (“the bank”) is a public company incorporated in Canada having its registered office in Montreal, Canada. We are a highly diversified financial services provider and provide a broad range of retail banking, wealth management and investment banking products and services. The bank is a chartered bank under the Bank Act (Canada). We have prepared these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). We also comply with interpretations of IFRS by our regulator, the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada (“OSFI”). Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historic cost basis, except the revaluation of the following items: assets and liabilities held for trading; financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss; available-for-sale financial assets; financial assets and financial liabilities designated as hedged items in qualifying fair value hedge relationships; cash-settled share-based payment liabilities; defined benefit pension and other employee future benefit liabilities; and insurance-related liabilities. These consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by the Board of Directors on December 3, 2013. Basis of Consolidation These consolidated financial statements are inclusive of the financial statements of our subsidiaries as at October 31, 2013. We conduct business through a variety of corporate structures, including subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and special purpose entities (“SPEs”). Subsidiaries are those entities where we exercise control through our ownership of the majority of the voting shares. Joint ventures are those entities where we exercise joint control through an agreement with other shareholders. We also hold interests in SPEs, which we consolidate where we control the SPE. These are more fully described in Note 9. All of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of our subsidiaries, and consolidated SPEs, and our proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of our joint ventures are included in our consolidated financial statements. All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation. We hold investments in associates, where we exert significant influence over operating, investing and financing decisions (companies in which we own between 20% and 50% of the voting shares). These are recorded at cost and are adjusted for our proportionate share of any net income or loss, other comprehensive income or loss and dividends. They are recorded as securities, other in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of these companies is recorded in interest, dividend and fee income, securities, in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries is presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a separate component of equity that is distinct from our shareholders’ equity. The net income attributable to non-controlling interest in subsidiaries is presented separately in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Specific Accounting Policies To facilitate a better understanding of our consolidated financial statements, we have disclosed our significant accounting policies throughout the following notes with the related financial disclosures by major caption: Note Topic Page
 Note
 Topic
 Page 1 Basis
 of Presentation
 130
 18
 Capital
 Trust
 Securities 161
 2 Cash
 Resources
 and Interest
 Bearing Deposits
 with
 Banks
 133 19 20 Interest
 Rate Risk
 Equity 161 
163 3 Securities 134 21 Capital Management
 165 4 Loans,
 Customers’
 Liability
 under
 Acceptances and 22 Employee Compensation – Stock-Based Compensation
 165 Allowance for
 Credit Losses 137 23 Employee Compensation – 5 
6 Other Credit
 Instruments
 Risk Management 141 
142 Pension and
 Other Employee Future Benefits 167 7 Guarantees
 144 24 Income Taxes 171 8 Asset
 Securitization 145 25 Earnings Per Share 174 9 
10 Special Purpose
 Entities Derivative Instruments 145 
147 26 Operating and
 Geographic Segmentation
 174
 11 Premises and Equipment 155 27 Related Party
 Transactions 177 12 
13 Acquisitions 
Goodwill and Intangible
 Assets
 155 
156 28 Provisions and Contingent
 Liabilities 177 14 
15 Other
 Assets
 Deposits
 158 
158 29 Fair Value of
 Financial
 Instruments 178 16 Other Liabilities
 159 30 Contractual Maturities of Assets 17 Subordinated Debt 160 and Liabilities and
 Off-Balance Sheet Commitments 185 Translation of Foreign Currencies We conduct business in a variety of foreign currencies and present our consolidated financial statements in Canadian dollars, which is our functional currency. Monetary assets and liabilities, as well as non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies, are translated into Canadian dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities not measured at fair value are translated into Canadian dollars at historical rates. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the average exchange rate for the year. Unrealized gains and losses arising from translating our net investment in foreign operations into Canadian dollars, net of related hedging activities and applicable income taxes, are included in our Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income within net gain (loss) on translation of net foreign operations. When we dispose of a foreign operation such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount of the translation gain (loss) and any applicable hedging activity and related income taxes are reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposition. All other foreign currency translation gains and losses are included in foreign exchange, other than trading, in our Consolidated Statement of Income as they arise. Foreign currency translation gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities that are denominated in foreign currencies are included in foreign exchange, other than trading, in our Consolidated Statement of Income. From time to time, we enter into foreign exchange hedge contracts to reduce our exposure to changes in the value of foreign currencies. Realized and unrealized gains and losses that arise on the mark-to<market of foreign exchange contracts related to economic hedges are included in foreign exchange, other than trading, in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Changes in fair value on forward contracts that qualify as accounting hedges are recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, with the spot/forward differential (the difference between the foreign currency rate at the inception of the contract and the rate at the end of the contract) being recorded in interest income (expense) over the term of the hedge. 130 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Dividend and Fee Income Dividend income Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established. This is the ex-dividend date for listed equity securities. Fee income Fee income (including commissions) is recognized based on the services or products for which the fee is paid. See Note 4 for the accounting treatment for lending fees. Securities commissions and fees and underwriting and advisory fees are recorded as revenue when the related services are completed. Deposit and payment service charges and insurance fees are recognized over the period that the related services are provided. Card fees primarily include interchange income, late fees, cash advance fees and annual fees. Card fees are recorded as billed, except for annual fees, which are recorded evenly throughout the year. Use of Estimates and Assumptions The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, certain amounts reported in net income and other related disclosures. The most significant assets and liabilities for which we must make estimates include: allowance for credit losses; purchased loans; acquired deposits; pension and other employee future benefits; impairment; income taxes; goodwill and intangible assets; insurance-related liabilities; and provisions. We make judgments in assessing whether substantially all risks and rewards have been transferred in respect of transfers of financial assets and whether we control SPEs. These judgments are discussed in Notes 8 and 9, respectively. Note 29 discusses the judgments made in determining the fair value of financial instruments. If actual results differ from the estimates, the impact would be recorded in future periods. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these judgments are well controlled, independently reviewed and consistently applied from period to period. We believe that our estimates of the value of our assets and liabilities are appropriate. Allowance for credit losses The allowance for credit losses adjusts the value of loans to reflect their estimated realizable value. In assessing their estimated realizable value, we must rely on estimates and exercise judgment regarding matters for which the ultimate outcome is unknown. These include economic factors, developments affecting companies in particular industries, and specific issues with respect to single borrowers. Changes in circumstances may cause future assessments of credit risk to be materially different from current assessments, which could require an increase or decrease in the allowance for credit losses. Additional information regarding the allowance for credit losses is included in Note 4. Purchased loans Significant judgment and assumptions were applied to determine the fair value of the Marshall & Ilsley Corporation (“M&I”) loan portfolio. Loans are either purchased performing loans or purchased credit impaired loans (“PCI loans”), both of which were recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition. Determining the fair value involved estimating the expected cash flows to be received and determining the discount rate to be applied to the cash flows from the loan portfolio. In determining the possible discount rates, we considered various factors, including our cost to raise funds in the current market, the risk premium associated with the loans and the cost to service the portfolios. PCI loans are those where the timely collection of interest and principal was no longer reasonably assured as at the date of acquisition. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we regularly re-evaluate what we expect to collect on PCI loans. Changes in expected cash flows could result in the recognition of impairment or a recovery in our provision for credit losses. Assessing the timing and amount of cash flows requires significant management judgment regarding key assumptions, including the probability of default, severity of loss and timing of payment receipts, as well as the valuation of collateral. All of these factors are inherently subjective and can result in significant changes in cash flow estimates over the life of a loan. Subsequent to the determination of the initial fair value, the purchased performing loans are subject to the credit review processes applied to loans we originate. Additional information regarding the accounting for purchased loans is included in Note 4. Acquired deposits M&I deposit liabilities were recorded at fair value at acquisition. The determination of fair value involved estimating the expected cash flows to be paid and determining the discount rate applied to the cash flows. Assessing the timing and amount of cash flows requires significant management judgment regarding the likelihood of early redemption by us and the timing of withdrawal by the client. Discount rates were based on the prevailing rates we were paying on similar deposits at the date of acquisition. Additional information on the accounting for deposits is included in Note 15. Pension and other employee future benefits Our pension
 and other
 employee future benefits expense is
 calculated
 by our independent
 actuaries using
 assumptions determined
 by
 management. If
 actual
 experience
 differs
 from the assumptions
 used,
 pension and
 other employee
 future benefits
 expense
 could increase
 or
 decrease in future years. The expected
 rate of return on plan assets is a management estimate that significantly affects
 the
 calculation of
 pension
 expense. Our expected
 rate of return on plan assets is determined using the plan’s
 target
 asset
 allocation
 and estimated
 rates of
 return for each asset class.
 Estimated rates of return are based
 on expected returns from fixed income
 securities,
 which
 take into consideration bond
 yields.
 An equity risk premium is
 then
 applied
 to
 estimate
 equity
 returns. Expected
 returns from other
 asset classes
 are
 established to
 reflect the risks of these asset
 classes
 relative to
 fixed income and equity
 assets.
 The impact
 of
 changesinexpected
 ratesofreturnonplanassetsisnotsignificant
 for
 our other
 employee future benefits expense since
 only small amounts
 of assets are held in
 these
 plans. Pension and other employee future benefits expense and obligations are also sensitive to changes in discount rates. We determine discount rates at each year end for our Canadian and U.S. plans using high-quality corporate bonds with terms matching the plans’ specific cash flows. Additional information regarding our accounting for pension and other employee future benefits is included in Note 23. Impairment We have investments in securities issued or guaranteed by Canadian, U.S. and other governments, corporate debt and equity securities, mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, which are classified as available-for-sale securities. We review held-to<maturity, available-for-sale and other securities at each quarter-end reporting period to identify and evaluate investments that show indications of possible impairment. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 131 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Notes For held-to-maturity, available-for-sale and other securities, impairment losses are recognized if, there is objective evidence of impairment, as a result of an event that reduces the estimated future cash flows from the security and the impact can be reliably estimated. Objective evidence of impairment includes default or delinquency by a debtor, restructuring of an amount due to us on terms that we would not consider otherwise, indications that a debtor or issuer will enter bankruptcy, or the disappearance of an active market for a security. In addition, for equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of a security below its cost is objective evidence of impairment. The decision to record a write-down, the amount and the period in which it is recorded could change if management’s assessment of the factors change. We do not record impairment write-downs on debt securities when impairment is due to changes in market interest rates, if future contractual cash flows associated with the debt security are still expected to be recovered. Additional information regarding our accounting for held-to<maturity securities, available-for-sale securities and other securities and the determination of fair value is included in Note 3. Income taxes The provision for income taxes is calculated based on the expected tax treatment of transactions recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Income or Changes in Equity. In determining the provision for income taxes, we interpret tax legislation in a variety of jurisdictions and make assumptions about the expected timing of the reversal of deferred tax assets and liabilities. If our interpretations differ from those of tax authorities or if the timing of reversals is not as expected, our provision for income taxes could increase or decrease in future periods. The amount of any such increase or decrease cannot be reasonably estimated. Additional information regarding our accounting for income taxes is included in Note 24. Goodwill For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to our cash generating units (“CGUs”), which represent the lowest level within the bank at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Impairment testing is performed at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that a CGU may be impaired, by comparing the carrying value and the recoverable amount of the CGU to which goodwill has been allocated to determine whether the recoverable amount of the group is greater than its carrying value.
 If the carrying value were to exceed the recoverable amount of the group, we would recognize an impairment loss. Fair value less costs to sell was used to perform the impairment test in 2013 and 2012. In determining fair value less costs to sell, we employ a discounted cash flow model consistent with those used when we acquire businesses. This model is dependent on assumptions related to revenue growth, discount rates, synergies achieved on acquisition and the availability of comparable acquisition data. Changes in each of these assumptions would affect the determination of fair value for each of the business units in a different manner. Management must exercise its judgment and make assumptions in determining fair value less costs to sell, and differences in judgments and assumptions could affect the determination of fair value and any resulting impairment write-down. Additional information regarding goodwill is included in Note 13. Insurance-related liabilities Insurance claims and policy benefit liabilities represent current claims and estimates of future insurance policy benefits. Liabilities for life insurance contracts are determined using the Canadian Asset Liability Method, which incorporates best-estimate assumptions for mortality, morbidity, policy lapses, surrenders, future investment yields, policy dividends, administration costs and margins for adverse deviation. These assumptions are reviewed at least annually and updated to reflect actual experience and market conditions. The most significant impact on the valuation of a liability results from a change in the assumption for future investment yields. Future investment yields may be sensitive to variations in reinvestment interest rates, which may affect the valuation of policy benefit liabilities. Additional information regarding insurance-related liabilities is included in Note 16. Provisions The bank and its subsidiaries are involved in various legal actions in the ordinary course of business. Provisions are recorded at the best estimate of the amounts required to settle any obligations related to these legal actions as at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Management and internal and external experts are involved in estimating any provisions. The actual costs of resolving these claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts of the provisions. Additional information regarding provisions is provided in Note 28. Future Changes in IFRS Employee benefits In June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits (“IAS 19 revised”). The revised standard is effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2013. Under the revised standard, actuarial gains and losses are to be recognized immediately in other comprehensive income and may no longer be deferred and amortized. Additionally, the expected return on plan assets will be set equal to the discount rate used to determine the plan obligation. This will result in a higher pension obligation and pension expense. Retroactive application of the amendments would increase our defined benefit liability by $538 million, reduce accumulated other comprehensive income by $459 million and reduce retained earnings by $79 million as at November 1, 2012. Fair value measurement In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (“IFRS 13”), which replaces the existing standard for fair value measurement. The new standard provides a common definition of fair value and establishes a framework for measuring fair value. The new standard also requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. IFRS 13 is effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2013. The adoption of the new standard will result in additional disclosures. We do not expect this new standard to have a significant impact on how we determine fair value. Impairment of assets In May 2013, the IASB issued narrow-scope amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. These amendments address the disclosure of information about the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal. The amendments are effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2014. We do not expect the amendments to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Consolidated financial statements In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (“IFRS 10”), which provides a single consolidation model that defines control and establishes control as the basis for consolidation for all types of interests. Under IFRS 10, we would control an entity when we have power over the entity, exposure or rights to variable returns from our involvement, and the ability to exercise power to affect the amount of our returns. IFRS 10 is effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2013. The adoption of IFRS 10 is expected to result in the deconsolidation of two of our funding vehicles and Canadian securitization vehicles. This will result in $802 million of subordinated 132 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 debt and $463 million of capital trust securities being reclassified to deposit liabilities and $640 million of other assets being reclassified as available-for-sale securities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as at November 1, 2012. We expect no other significant impacts on our consolidated financial statements from the adoption of the new standard. Investments in associates and joint ventures In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements (“IFRS 11”), which requires that joint ventures be accounted for using the equity method. IFRS 11 is effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2014. The adoption of IFRS 11 will result in our joint venture being accounted for using the equity method of accounting. This change will not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (“IAS 32”) and to IFRS 7 Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (“IFRS 7”). The amendments clarify that an entity has a legally enforceable right to offset if that right is not contingent on a future event; and that right is enforceable both in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the entity and all counterparties. These amendments also contain new disclosure requirements for financial assets and financial liabilities that are offset in the statement of financial position or subject to master netting agreements or similar agreements. The disclosure amendments are effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2013 and the classification amendments are effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2014. The amendments will result in additional disclosures. We do not expect this new standard to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Disclosure of interests in other entities In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (“IFRS 12”), which sets out the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated structured entities. This new standard requires disclosure of the nature of, and risks associated with, an entity’s interests in other entities and the effects of these interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The new standard is effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2013, and will result in additional disclosures. Financial instruments In December 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 9 (“IFRS 9”), which sets out requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. This is the first phase of a three-phase project to replace the current standard for accounting for financial instruments. The new standard specifies that financial assets are to be measured at either amortized cost or fair value on the basis of the reporting entity’s business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets. The classification and measurement of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss remain generally unchanged; however, fair value changes attributable to changes in the credit risk for financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss are to be recorded in other comprehensive income unless they offset amounts recorded in income. In November 2013, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 9 which sets out a new general hedge accounting model. This amendment does not address portfolio or macro hedging which will be addressed at a later time. The new model expands the scope of eligible hedged items and risks eligible for hedge accounting and aligns hedge accounting more closely with risk management. Under the new IFRS 9 model, it will be necessary to demonstrate an economic relationship between the hedged item and hedging instrument, however there will no longer be a specified quantitative measure and retrospective hedge effectiveness testing will no longer be required. Increased disclosures will be required about our risk management strategy, cash flows from hedging activities and the impact of hedge accounting on financial statements. The other
 phase of
 this
 project,
 which
 is currently under development, addresses impairment.
 In July 2013, the IASB
 tentatively
 decided to
 defer
 the effective
 date
 of
 IFRS
 9 to an unspecified date pending the
 finalization of
 the
 impairment and hedge accounting phases of the project.
 We
 are
 currently assessing
 the impact
 of
 this
 new standard on our future
 financial
 results in
 conjunction
 with the completion
 of
 the
 other phases
 of
 the
 IASB’s financial instruments
 project. In June 2013, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. These amendments allow hedge accounting to continue when derivatives are novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of laws or regulations, if specific conditions are met. The amendments are to be applied retrospectively and are effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2014. We do not expect the amendments to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Investment entities In October 2012, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements, which introduce an exception to the principle that all subsidiaries are to be consolidated. The amendments require a parent that is an investment entity to measure its investments in particular subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss instead of consolidating all subsidiaries in its consolidated financial statements. The amendments are effective for our fiscal year beginning November 1, 2014. We do not expect these amendments to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Note 2: Cash Resources
 and Interest
 Bearing
 Deposits with Banks (Canadian $ in millions)2013 2012 Cash Restrictions Cash and deposits with banks (1) 24,593 18,347 Some of our foreign operations are required to maintain reserves or Cheques and other items in transit, net 1,490 1,594 minimum balances with central banks in their respective countries of Total cash and cash equivalents 26,083 19,941 operation, amounting to $1,211 million as at October 31, 2013 (1) Deposits with banks include deposits with the Bank of Canada, the U.S. Federal Reserve and($1,059 million in 2012).other banks.Interest Bearing Deposits with Banks Cheques and Other Items in Transit, Net Deposits with banks are recorded at amortized cost and include Cheques and other items in transit are recorded at cost and represent acceptances we have purchased that were issued by other banks. the net position of the uncleared cheques and other items in transit Interest income earned on these deposits is recorded on an between us and other banks. accrual basis. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 133 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Note 3: Securities Securities are divided into four types, each with a different purpose and accounting treatment. The types of securities we hold are as follows: Trading securities are securities that we purchase for resale over a short period of time. We report these securities at their fair value and record the fair value changes and transaction costs in our Consolidated Statement of Income in trading revenues. Securities Designated at Fair Value Securities designated at fair value through profit or loss are financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in income provided they meet certain criteria. Securities designated at fair value through profit or loss must have reliably measurable fair values and satisfy one of the following criteria: (1) accounting for them at fair value eliminates or significantly reduces an inconsistency in measurement or recognition that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognizing the gains and losses on them on a different basis; (2) the securities are part of a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both that is managed and has its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and is reported to key management personnel on a fair value basis; or (3) the securities are hybrid financial instruments with one or more embedded derivatives that would otherwise have to be bifurcated and accounted for separately from the host contract. Financial instruments must be designated on initial recognition, and the designation is irrevocable. If these securities were not designated at fair value, they would be accounted for as available-for-sale securities with unrealized gains and losses recorded in other comprehensive income. We designate certain securities held by our insurance subsidiaries that support our insurance liabilities at fair value through profit or loss since the actuarial calculation of insurance liabilities is based on the fair value of the investments supporting them. This designation aligns the accounting result with the way the portfolio is managed on a fair value basis. The fair value of these investments as at October 31, 2013 of $5,766 million ($5,561 million in 2012) is recorded in securities, trading in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The impact of recording these investments at fair value through profit or loss was a decrease of $178 million in non-interest revenue, insurance income for the year ended October 31, 2013 (increase of $286 million in 2012). Changes in the insurance liability balances are also recorded in non-interest revenue, insurance income. We designate investments held by our credit protection vehicle and our structured investment vehicle (our “structured credit vehicles”) at fair value through profit or loss, which aligns the accounting result with the way the portfolio is managed on a fair value basis. At October 31, 2013, these vehicles held only cash. The fair value of the investments held in these vehicles at October 31, 2012 was $1,849 million and was recorded in securities, trading in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The impact of recording these investments at fair value through profit or loss was a decrease in non-interest revenue, trading revenues of $40 million for the year ended October 31, 2013 (increase of $183 million in 2012). We recognized offsetting amounts for derivative contracts that are held to hedge changes in the fair value of these investments. Additional information regarding our structured credit vehicles is included in Note 9. We designate certain investments held in our merchant banking business at fair value through profit or loss, which aligns the accounting result with the way the portfolio is managed. The fair value of these investments as at October 31, 2013 of $488 million ($654 million in 2012) is recorded in securities, other in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The impact of recording these investments at fair value through profit or loss was a decrease in non-interest revenue, securities gains, other than trading of $18 million in our Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended October 31, 2013 (decrease of $41 million in 2012). Available-for-sale securities consist of debt and equity securities that may be sold in response to or in anticipation of changes in interest rates and resulting prepayment risk, changes in foreign currency risk, changes in funding sources or terms, or to meet liquidity needs. Available-for-sale securities are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs. They are subsequently re-measured at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recorded in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities in our Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income until the security is sold. Gains and losses on disposal and impairment losses are recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Income in non-interest revenue, securities gains, other than trading. Interest income earned and dividends received on available-for-sale securities are recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Income in interest, dividend and fee income, securities. Investments held by our insurance operations are classified as available-for-sale or other securities, except for those investments that support the policy benefit liabilities on our insurance contracts, which are designated at fair value through profit or loss as discussed above. Interest and other fee income on available-for-sale securities is recognized when earned in our Consolidated Statement of Income in non-interest revenue, insurance income. Held-to-maturity securities are debt securities that we have the intention and ability to hold to maturity. These securities are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently re<measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses on disposal and impairment losses are recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Income in securities gains (losses), other than trading. Interest income earned and amortization of premiums or discounts on the debt securities are recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Income in interest, dividend and fee income, securities. Other securities are investments in companies where we exert significant influence over operating, investing and financing decisions (companies in which we own between 20% and 50% of the voting share) and certain securities held by our merchant banking business. We account for all of
 our
 securities transactions using settlement
 date
 accounting in our Consolidated
 Balance Sheet.
 Changes
 in fair value between the
 trade date
 and
 settlement date
 are
 recorded in net income.
 For available-for-sale
 securities, changes
 in fair value between
 the trade
 date and settlement
 date
 are
 recorded in other comprehensive
 income.
 Impairment Review For available-for-sale, held-to-maturity and other securities, impairment losses are recognized if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of an event that reduces the estimated future cash flows from the security and the impact can be reliably estimated. For equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of a security below its cost is objective evidence of impairment. The impairment loss on available-for-sale securities is the difference between the cost/amortized cost and current fair value, less any previously recognized impairment losses. The impairment loss on held-to-maturity securities is measured as the difference between a security’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. If there is objective evidence of impairment, a write-down is recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Income in securities gains, other than trading. 134 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 For debt securities, a previous impairment loss is reversed through net income if an event occurs after the impairment was recognized that can be objectively attributed to an increase in fair value, to a maximum of the original impairment charge. Reversals of impairment losses on held-to-maturity securities are recorded to a maximum of the amortized cost of the investment before the original impairment charge. For equity securities, previous impairment losses are not reversed through net income and any subsequent increases in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive income. As at October 31, 2013, we had 979 available-for-sale securities (248 in 2012) with unrealized losses totalling $96 million (unrealized losses of $86 million in 2012). Of these available-for-sale securities, 44 have been in an unrealized loss position continuously for more than one year (28 in 2012), amounting to an unrealized loss position of $5 million (unrealized loss position of $5 million in 2012). Unrealized losses on these instruments, excluding corporate equities, resulted from changes in interest rates and not from deterioration in the creditworthiness of the issuers. We expect full recovery of principal and interest payments from certain debt securities due to governmental support and/or overcollateralization provided. The share prices and valuations of many equity securities that we hold have also appreciated from earlier levels. Based on these factors, we have determined that there is no significant impairment. We did not own any securities issued by a single non-government entity where the book value, as at October 31, 2013 or 2012, was greater than 10% of our shareholders’ equity. Fair Value Measurement For traded securities, quoted market value is considered to be fair value. Quoted market value is based on bid prices. For securities where market quotes are not available, we use estimation techniques to determine fair value. Discussion of fair value measurement is included in Note 29. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 135 Notes Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) Term to maturity 2013 2012 Within 1to3
 3to5
 5to10
 Over 10 1 year years years years years Total Total Trading Securities Issued or guaranteed by: Canadian federal government Canadian provincial and municipal governments U.S. federal government U.S. states, municipalities and agencies Other governments Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations Corporate debt Corporate equity 2,253 644 905 20 1 23 1,090 – 4,004 758 2,397 412 
117 386 2,076 – 1,249 636 1,415 154 14 170 1,586 – 2,023 1,840 717 
162 – 35 1,569 – 1,295 1,833 469 11 4 38 4,766 40,087 10,824 5,711 
5,903 759 
136 652 11,087 40,087 10,907 5,515 
7,052 447 521 1,510 14,319 29,838 Total trading securities 4,936 10,150 5,224 6,346 48,503 75,159 70,109 Available-for-Sale Securities Issued or guaranteed by: Canadian federal government Amortized cost Fair value Yield (%) Canadian provincial and municipal governments Amortized cost Fair value Yield (%) U.S. federal government Amortized cost Fair value Yield (%) U.S. states, municipalities and agencies Amortized cost Fair value Yield (%) Other governments Amortized cost Fair value Yield (%) Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations – Canada (1) Amortized cost Fair value Yield (%) Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations – U.S. Amortized cost Fair value Yield (%) Corporate debt Amortized cost Fair value Yield (%) Corporate equity Amortized cost Fair value Yield (%) 5,591 5,652 1.60 191 
195 1.46 1,094 1,095 0.28 1,644 
1,645 0.45 1,715 
1,713 1.80 159 
184 1.00 2 
2 0.24 861 
862 1.32 – 
– – 2,726 2,761 1.39 866 870 1.08 3,400 3,407 0.37 1,164 
1,174 1.05 2,511 
2,515 1.00 813 
775 1.64 7 
7 3.90 5,479 
5,536 1.20 – 
– – 4,007 4,029 1.38 1,040 1,043 1.70 156 158 1.44 346 
358 2.19 1,939 
1,935 1.54 1,299 
1,318 2.07 16 
16 3.31 2,958 
2,997 1.60 – 
– – 625 632 2.36 1,483 1,461 2.65 – – – 1,377 
1,387 1.02 – 
– – – – – 159 
159 2.23 240 
246 3.76 – 
– – 40 41 2.97 127 129 3.82 – – – 832 
828 0.82 – 
– – – – – 6,351 
6,344 1.13 31 
35 2.83 1,411 
1,558 1.90 12,989 13,115 1.53 3,707 
3,698 2.00 4,650 4,660 0.39 5,363 
5,392 0.90 6,165 
6,163 1.39 2,271 
2,277 1.83 6,535 
6,528 1.16 9,569 
9,676 1.40 1,411 
1,558 1.90 17,050 17,277 1.76 2,642 
2,680 1.86 10,010 10,099 0.53 4,390 
4,462 1.16 6,591 
6,596 1.57 432 
435 5.64 5,705 
5,773 1.36 7,724 
7,875 1.46 1,129 
1,185 2.16 Total cost or amortized cost 11,257 16,966 11,761 3,884 8,792 52,660 55,673 Total fair value 11,348 17,045 11,854 3,885 8,935 53,067 56,382 Yield (%) 1.31 1.03 1.61 2.06 1.28 1.33 1.43 Held-to-Maturity Securities Issued or guaranteed by: Canadian federal government Amortized cost Fair value Canadian provincial and municipal governments Amortized cost Fair value Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations – Canada Amortized cost Fair value – 
– – – – – 427 
427 461 462 1,074 
1,069 2,005 
2,009 1,217 1,220 242 
247 – 
– 467 
466 – – – 
– 139 
141 – – 2,432 
2,436 2,284 2,289 1,316 1,316 600 600 275 275 – 
– Total cost or amortized cost – 1,962 3,464 467 139 6,032 875 Total fair value – 1,958 3,476 466 141 6,041 875 Other Securities Carrying value Fair value 18 
18 26 
26 11 
11 17 
17 651 
864 723 
936 958 1,126 Total carrying value or amortized cost of securities 16,211 29,104 20,460 10,714 58,085 134,574 127,615 Total securities value 16,302 29,183 20,553 10,715 58,228 134,981 128,324 Total by Currency (in Canadian $ equivalent) Canadian dollar U.S. dollar Other currencies 10,201 4,988 1,113 13,457 14,713 1,013 13,020 6,861 672 7,390 3,324 1 45,213 
12,804 211 89,281 
42,690 3,010 77,829 46,564 3,931 Total securities 16,302 29,183 20,553 10,715 58,228 134,981 128,324 (1) These amounts are supported by insured mortgages. backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations is based on average expected maturities. Yields in the table above are calculated using the cost of the security and the contractual interest or stated dividend rates associated with each security adjusted for any amortization of premiums and discounts. Tax effects are not taken into consideration. The term to maturity included in the table Actual maturities could differ as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations. Securities with no maturity date are included in the over 10 years category. Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. above is based on the contractual maturity date of the security. The term to maturity of mortgage<136 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Unrealized Gains and Losses Available-for-sale Available-for-sale (Canadian $ in millions) securities 2013 securities 2012 Gross Gross Gross Gross Amortized unrealized unrealized Fair Amortized unrealized unrealized Fair cost gains losses value cost gains losses value Issued or guaranteed by: Canadian federal government 12,989 129 3 13,115 17,050 265 38 17,277 Canadian provincial and municipal governments 3,707 23 32 3,698 2,642 39 1 2,680 U.S. federal government4,650 10 – 4,660 10,010 89 – 10,099 U.S. states, municipalities and agencies5,363 41 12 5,392 4,390 83 11 4,462 Other governments 6,165 7 9 6,163 6,591 10 5 6,596 Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations – Canada (1) 2,271 6 – 2,277 432 3 –435
 Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations – U.S. 6,535 24 31 6,528 5,705 78 10 5,773 Corporate debt 9,569 115 8 9,676 7,724 169 18 7,875 Corporate equity 1,411 148 1 1,558 1,129 59 3 1,185 Total52,660 503 96 53,067 55,673 795 86 56,382 (1) These amounts are supported by insured mortgages. Available-for-saleAvailable-for-sale Unrealized Lossessecurities in an unrealized securities in an unrealized (Canadian $ in millions)loss position for 2013 loss position for 2012 Less than 12 months Less than 12 months 12 months or longer Total 12 months or longer Total Gross Gross Gross Gross Gross Gross unrealized Fair unrealized Fair unrealized Fair unrealized Fair unrealized Fair unrealized Fair losses value losses value losses value losses value losses value losses value Issued or guaranteed by: Canadian federal government 3721
 – – 3721
 38811
 – – 38811
 Canadian provincial and municipal governments 30 1,662 2 26 32 1,688 1107
 – – 1107
 U.S. federal government––––
 ––
 – 1,155 – – – 1,155 U.S. states, municipalities and agencies11 1,385 1 317 12 1,702 11244
 – 3 11247
 Other governments 8 1,142 1 1,316 9 2,458 1 2,455 4 1,059 5 3,514 Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations – Canada (1) –74
 ––
 –74
 –41
 –4
 –45
 Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations – U.S. 30 4,005 1 143 31 4,148 10 1,551 – – 10 1,551 Corporate debt 8 2,753 – 37 8 2,790 17526
 1 31 18557
 Corporate equity 196
 –2
 198
 317
 –2
 319
 Total91 11,838 5 1,841 96 13,679 81 6,907 5 1,099 86 8,006 (1) These amounts are supported by insured mortgages. Income from securities has been included in our consolidated financial statements as follows: (Canadian $ in millions)2013 2012 2011 Reported in Consolidated Statement of Income: Interest, Dividend and Fee Income (1) Trading securities (2) 1,409 1,621 1,492 Available-for-sale securities 610 561 626 Held-to-maturity securities 47 1–
 Other securities 77 82 58 2,143 2,265 2,176 Non-Interest Revenue Available-for-sale securities Gross realized gains 90 153 223 Gross realized losses (3) (24) (85) Unrealized gain on investment reclassified from equity method accounting to available-for-sale 191 ––
 Other securities, net realized and unrealized gains (losses) 24 28 55 Impairment write-downs (17) (5) (4) Securities gains (losses), other than trading (1)285 152 189 Trading securities, net realized and unrealized gains (losses) (1) (2)477 374 546 Total income from securities2,905 2,791 2,911 (1) The following amounts of income related to our insurance operations were included in non-(2) The following amounts of trading securities, net realized and unrealized gains (losses) are interest revenue, insurance income in our Consolidated Statement of Income: related to our insurance operations: Interest, dividend and fee income of $263 million for the year ended October 31, 2013 Trading securities, net realized and unrealized gains (losses) of $(190) million for the year ($253 million in 2012 and $226 million in 2011). Securities gains (losses), other than trading ended October 31, 2013 ($286 million in 2012 and $6.5 million in 2011). of $1 million for the year ended October 31, 2013 ($nil in 2012 and $15 million in 2011). Note 4: Loans, Customers’ Liability under Acceptancesand Allowance
 for Credit Losses Loans rate to the carrying amount of the loan. The effective interest rate is Loans are initially measured at fair value plus directly attributable costs, defined as the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts and are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective through the expected term of the loan to the net carrying amount interest method. The effective interest method allocates interest income of the loan. The treatment of interest income for impaired loans is over the expected term of the loan by applying the effective interest described below. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 137 Notes Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 We amortize deferred loan origination costs that are directly attributable and incremental to the origination of a loan using the effective interest method. We record the amortization as a reduction in interest, dividend and fee income, loans, over the term of the resulting loan. Under the effective interest method, the amount recognized in interest, dividend and fee income, loans, varies over the term of the loan based on the principal outstanding. Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Resale Agreements Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements represent the amounts we will receive as a result of our commitment to resell securities that we have purchased, back to the original seller, on a specified date at a specified price. We account for these instruments as if they were loans. Lending Fees The accounting treatment for lending fees varies depending on the transaction. Some loan origination, restructuring and renegotiation fees are recorded as interest income over the term of the loan, while other lending fees, to a certain threshold are taken into income at the time of loan origination. Commitment fees are recorded as interest income over the term of the loan, unless we believe the loan commitment will not be used. In the latter case, commitment fees are recorded as lending fees over the commitment period. Loan syndication fees are included in lending fees as the syndication is completed, unless the yield on any loans we retain is less than that of other comparable lenders involved in the financing. In the latter case, an appropriate portion of the syndication fee is recorded as interest income over the term of the loan. Customers’ Liability under Acceptances Acceptances represent a form of negotiable short-term debt that is issued by our customers, which we guarantee for a fee. We have offsetting claims, equal to the amount of the acceptances, against our customers in the event of a call on these commitments. The amount due under acceptances is recorded in other liabilities and our corresponding claim is recorded as a loan in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Fees earned are recorded in lending fees in our Consolidated Statement of Income over the term of the acceptance. Impaired Loans Generally consumer loans in
 both
 Canada and
 the U.S.
 are
 classified as impaired when payment is
 contractually
 90 days past due, or one year past due for residential mortgages
 if guaranteed
 by
 the
 Government of Canada. Credit card
 loans
 are immediately
 written
 off
 when principal or
 interest payments are 180 days past due, and are
 not reported as
 impaired. In
 Canada, consumer installment loans,
 other
 personal loans and some small business loans are
 normally written off
 when they are one year past
 due.
 In
 the
 US,
 all
 consumer
 loans are
 written
 off
 when
 they are 180 days past due, except for non-real estate term loans which
 are written
 off at
 120 days. For
 the purpose
 of measuring the
 amount to be written off,
 the determination
 of the recoverable amount
 includes
 an
 estimate of future recoveries. Corporate and commercial loans are classified as impaired when we determine there is no longer reasonable assurance that principal or interest will be collected in its entirety on a timely basis. Generally, corporate and commercial loans are considered impaired when payments are 90 days past due, or for fully secured loans, when payments are 180 days past due. Corporate and commercial loans are written off following a review on an individual loan basis that confirms all recovery attempts have been exhausted. Our average gross impaired loans and acceptances were $2,800 million for the year ended October 31, 2013 ($2,812 million in 2012). Our average impaired loans, net of the specific allowance, were $2,354 million for the year ended October 31, 2013 ($2,296 million in 2012). During the year ended
 October 31, 2013, we recorded a net gain of $46 million (net
 gain of
 $4
 million
 in
 2012) on the sale of
 impaired
 loans.
 Once a loan is identified as impaired, we continue to recognize interest income based on the original effective interest rate of the loan. Interest income on impaired loans of $133 million was recognized for the year ended October 31, 2013 ($159 million in 2012). A loan will be reclassified back to performing status when we determine that there is reasonable assurance of full and timely repayment of interest and principal in accordance with the terms and conditions of the loan, and that none of the criteria for classification of the loan as impaired continue to apply. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet is maintained at a level that we consider adequate to absorb credit-related losses on our loans, customers’ liability under acceptances and other credit instruments. The portion related to other credit instruments is recorded in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. As at October 31, 2013, there was $305 million in allowance for credit losses related to other credit instruments included in other liabilities ($230 million in 2012). The allowance is comprised of a specific allowance and a collective allowance. Specific Allowance These allowances are recorded for individually identified impaired loans to reduce their carrying value to the expected recoverable amount. We review our loans and acceptances on an ongoing basis to assess whether any loans should be classified as impaired and whether an allowance or write-off should be recorded (other than credit card loans, which are classified as impaired and written off when principal or interest payments are 180 days past due, as discussed under impaired loans). The review of problem loans is conducted at least quarterly by the account managers, each of whom assesses the ultimate collectability and estimated recoveries for a specific loan based on all events and conditions that are relevant to the loan. This assessment is then approved by an independent credit officer. Individually Significant Impaired Loans To determine the amount we expect to recover from an individually significant impaired loan, we use the value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate. The determination of estimated future cash flows of a collateralized loan reflects the expected realization of the underlying security net of expected costs and any amounts legally required to be paid to the borrower. Security can vary by type of loan and may include cash, securities, real properties, accounts receivable, guarantees, inventory or other capital assets. Individually Insignificant Impaired Loans Residential mortgages, consumer instalment and other personal loans are individually insignificant and thus are collectively assessed for impairment, taking into account historical loss experience. In the periods following the recognition of impairment, adjustments to the allowance for these loans reflecting the time value of money are recognized and presented as interest income. Collective Allowance We maintain a collective allowance in order to cover any impairment in the existing portfolio for loans that have not yet been individually identified as impaired. Our approach to establishing and maintaining the collective allowance is based on the guideline issued by OSFI and is reviewed by management on a quarterly basis. The collective allowance methodology incorporates both quantitative and qualitative factors to determine an appropriate level for the collective allowance. For the purpose of calculating the collective allowance, we group loans on the basis of similarities in credit risk characteristics. The loss factors for groups of loans are determined based on a minimum of five years of historical data and a one-year loss emergence period except for credit cards, where a seven-month loss emergence period is used. The loss factors are back-tested and calibrated on a regular basis to ensure that they continue to reflect our 138 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 best estimate of losses that have been incurred, but not yet identified, Provision for Credit Losses on an individual basis, within the pools of loans. Historical loss Changes in
 the
 value of
 our
 loan portfolio due to
 credit-related
 losses
 or
 experience is also reviewed to determine loss factors. Qualitative factors recoveries of amounts previously
 provi
ded for or written off
 are included
 in
 are based on current observable data such as current macroeconomic the provision
 for credit
 losses
 in
 our
 Consolidated Statement
 of
 Income.
 and business conditions, portfolio-specific considerations, model risk factors, and the level of non-performing loans (impaired loans) for which a specific allowance has not yet been assessed. Loans, including customers’ liability under acceptances and allowance for credit losses, by category are as follows: Credit card, consumerinstalment and other Business and Customers’ liability(Canadian $ in millions) Residential mortgages personal loans government loans under acceptances Total2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Gross loan balances at end of year 99,328 87,870 81,075 71,510 69,250 67,483 101,450 90,402 84,883 8,472 8,019 7,227 280,760 255,541 240,668 Specific allowance at beginning of year Specific provisions for credit losses Recoveries 76 129 24 74 132 60 52 109 8 62 620 152 59 743 156 47 667 133 338 (150) 596 426 (113) 630 481 360 100 – – 
– – – 
– 10
 (10) – 476 599 
772 559 762 
846 590 1,126 241 Write-offs Foreign exchange and other (104) (26) (173) (17) (92) (3) (752) (11) (883) (13) (784) (4) (443) (26) (538) (67) (454) (61) – – – – – – (1,299) (63) (1,594) (97) (1,330) (68) Specific allowance at end of year 99 76 74 71 62 59 315 338 426 – – – 485 476 559 Collective allowance at beginning of year Collective provision for credit losses Foreign exchange and other 47 40 1 36 
11 – 23 
13 – 624 (4) 2 565 59 – 477 88 – 759 (35) 32 817 (63) 5 839 (5) (17) 30 (11) – 34 (4) – 44 (10) – 1,460 (10) 35 1,452 3 5 1,383 86
 (17) Collective allowance at end of year 88 47 36 622 624 565 756 759 817 19 30 34 1,485 1,460 1,452 Total allowance 187 123 110 693 686 624 1,071 1,097 1,243 19 30 34 1,970 1,936 2,011 Comprised of: Loans 167 113 108 693 686 624 786 877 1,017 19 30 34 1,665 1,706 1,783 Other credit instruments (1) 20 10 2 – – – 285 220 226 – – – 305 230 228 Net loan balances at end of year 99,161 87,757 80,967 70,817 68,564 66,859 100,664 89,525 83,866 8,453 7,989 7,193 279,095 253,835 238,885 (1) The total specific and collective allowances related to other credit instruments are includedCertain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s in other liabilities. presentation. Included in loans as at October 31, 2013 are $81,069 million ($72,904 million in 2012 and $72,211 million in 2011) of loans denominated in U.S. dollars and $947 million ($622 million in 2012 and $723 million in 2011) of loans denominated in other foreign currencies. Loans, including customers’ liability under acceptances and allowance for credit losses, by geographic region are as follows: Specific Collective (Canadian $ in millions) Gross amount allowance (2) allowance (3) Net amount 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 By geographic region (1): Canada 204,706 186,830 244 263 726 660 203,736 185,907 United States 68,702 63,969 196 166 495 599 68,011 63,204 Other countries 7,352 4,742 4 18 – – 7,348 4,724 Total280,760 255,541 444 447 1,221 1,259 279,095 253,835 (1) Geographic region is based upon the country of ultimate risk.(3) Excludes collective allowance of $264 million for other credit instruments ($201 million in (2) Excludes specific allowance of $41 million for other credit instruments ($29 million in 2012), 2012), which is included in other liabilities. which is included in other liabilities.Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. Impaired loans, including the related allowances, are as follows: (Canadian $ in millions)Gross impaired amount Specific allowance (3) Net of specific allowance 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Residential mortgages 595 583 79 66 516 517 Consumer instalment and other personal loans 455 401 71 62 384 339 Business and government loans 1,494 1,992 294 319 1,200 1,673 Total (1)2,544 2,976 444 447 2,100 2,529 By geographic region (2): Canada 754 886 244 263 510 623 United States 1,783 2,047 196 166 1,587 1,881 Other countries 7 43 4 18 3 25 Total2,544 2,976 444 447 2,100 2,529 (1) Excludes purchased credit impaired loans.Fully secured loans with past due amounts between 90 and 180 days that we have not classified as (2) Geographic region is based upon the country of ultimate risk.impaired totalled $256 million and $546 million as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
 (3) Excludes specific allowance of $41 million for other credit instruments ($29 million in 2012), which is included in other liabilities. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 139 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Specific provisions for credit losses, by geographic region are as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) Residential mortgages Credit card, consumer instalment and other personal loans Business and government loans (2) Total For the year ended October 31 By geographic region (1): Canada United States Other countries Total 2013 4 125 – 129 2012 14 118 – 132 2013 433 187 – 620 2012 476 267 – 743 2013 133 (281) (2) (150) 2012 124 (234) (3) (113) 2013 570 31 (2) 599 2012 614 151 (3) 762 (1) Geographic region is based upon the country of ultimate risk. (2) Includes provisions relating to customers’ liability under acceptances in the amount of $nil and $nil as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
 Foreclosed Assets Property or other assets that we have received from borrowers to satisfy their loan commitments are classified as either held for use or held for sale according to management’s intention and are recorded at the lower of carrying amount or fair value (less costs to sell). Fair value is determined based on market prices where available. Otherwise, fair value is determined using other methods, such as analysis of discounted cash flows or market prices for similar assets. During the year ended October 31, 2013, we foreclosed on impaired loans and received $301 million of real estate properties that we classified as held for sale ($438 million in 2012). As at October 31, 2013, real estate properties held for sale totalled $278 million ($425 million in 2012). These properties are disposed of when considered appropriate. During the year ended October 31, 2013, we recorded an impairment loss of $36 million on real estate properties classified as held for sale ($36 million in 2012). Renegotiated Loans From time to time we modify the contractual terms of loans due to the poor financial condition of the borrower. We assess renegotiated loans for impairment consistent with our existing policies for impairment. When renegotiation leads to significant concessionary modifications to the contractual terms of the loan and the concessions are for economic or legal reasons related to the borrower’s financial difficulty that we would not otherwise consider, the loan is classified as impaired. We consider one or a combination of the following to be significant concessions: (1) a reduction of the stated interest rate, (2) an extension of the maturity date or dates at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for a new loan with a similar term, or (3) forgiveness of principal or accrued interest. Renegotiated loans are permitted to remain in performing status if the modifications are not considered to be significant concessions or are returned to performing status when none of the criteria for classification as impaired continue to apply. The carrying value of our renegotiated loans was $388 million as at October 31, 2013 ($367 million in 2012). Renegotiated loans of $155 million were classified as performing during the year ended October 31, 2013 ($91 million in 2012). Renegotiated loans of $59 million and $73 million were written off in the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Insured Mortgages Included in the residential mortgages balance are Canadian government and corporate-insured mortgages of $52 billion as at October 31, 2013 ($49 billion in 2012). Included in the consumer instalment and other personal loans balance are Canadian government-insured real estate personal loans of $nil as at October 31, 2013 ($nil in 2012). Purchased Loans We record all loans
 that we purchase at fair value on
 the
 day that
 we
 acquire the
 loans. The fair value of the acquired
 loan
 portfolio
 includes an estimate of the interest
 rate premium
 or discount on the loans
 calculated as the difference
 between
 the contractual
 rate of interest on the loans
 and prevailing
 interest
 rates (the “interest rate mark”).
 Also included in fair value is
 an
 estimate
 of
 expected
 credit
 losses
 (the
 “credit
 mark”) as of the acquisition
 date. The
 credit mark consists of two components:
 an estimate of the amount
 of
 losses
 that exist
 in the acquired
 loan
 portfolio on the acquisition
 date but that
 haven’t been specifically identified on that date (the “incurred credit
 mark”)
 and
 an amount that represents future expected losses (the
 “future
 credit mark”).
 Because
 we
 record the loans at
 fair value,
 no allowance for credit losses is
 recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet
 on the day
 we acquire the
 loans. Fair value is
 determined by estimating the principal
 and interest
 cash
 flows expected to be collected on the loans
 and discounting
 those cash
 flows
 at a market
 rate of interest. We
 estimate
 cash
 flows
 expected to be collected based on specific loan reviews for
 commercial loans.
 For
 retail loans, we use models that incorporate management’s
 best
 estimate
 of current key
 assumptions such
 as default rates, loss
 severity
 and
 the timing
 of
 prepayments, as well as collateral. Acquired loans are classified into the following categories: those that on the acquisition date continued to make timely principal and interest payments (the “purchased performing loans”) and those for which on the acquisition date the timely collection of interest and principal was no longer reasonably assured (the “purchased credit impaired loans” or “PCI loans”). Because purchased credit impaired loans are recorded at fair value at acquisition based on the amount expected to be collected, none of the purchased credit impaired loans are considered to be impaired at acquisition. Subsequent to the acquisition date, we account for each type of loan as follows: Purchased Performing Loans For performing
 loans
 with fixed terms,
 the
 future credit mark is fully amortized to
 net interest income over the expected
 life of
 the
 loan using the effective
 interest
 method.
 The impact
 on
 net interest income
 for the
 year ended October
 31, 2013 was $48 million ($97
 million in
 2012 and $52 million in
 2011). The
 incurred credit
 losses
 are
 re-measured at
 each
 reporting period,
 with
 any increases
 recorded as an increase in the collective allowance
 and
 the provision
 for credit
 losses.
 Decreases in
 incurred credit
 losses
 are
 recorded as a decrease
 in
 the
 collective allowance and
 in the provision for credit losses
 until
 the accumulated
 collective allowance
 related to these loans
 is exhausted. Any additional
 decrease is recorded in net interest
 income.
 The impact of the re-measurement of incurred credit losses for performing loans with fixed terms for the year ended October 31, 2013 was $nil in the provision for credit losses and $143 million in net interest income ($nil and $104 million, respectively, in 2012 and $14 million and $nil, respectively, in 2011). Notes 140 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 For performing loans with revolving terms, the incurred and future credit marks are amortized into net interest income on a straight-line basis over the contractual terms of the loans. The impact on net interest income of such amortization for the year ended October 31, 2013 was $123 million ($179 million in 2012 and $81 million in 2011). As performing loans are repaid, the related unamortized credit mark remaining is recorded as net interest income during the period in which the cash is received. The impact on net interest income of such repayments for the year ended October 31, 2013 was $241 million ($301 million in 2012 and $110 million in 2011). Actual specific provisions for credit losses related to these performing loans will be recorded as they arise in a manner that is consistent with our accounting policy for loans we originate. The total specific provision for credit losses for purchased performing loans for the year ended October 31, 2013 was $240 million ($291 million in 2012 and $19 million in 2011). As at October 31, 2013, the amount of purchased performing loans remaining on the balance sheet was $16.6 billion ($21.1 billion in 2012). As at October 31, 2013, the credit mark remaining on performing term loans, revolving loans and other performing loans was $425 million, $156 million and $6 million, respectively ($849 million, $301 million and $23 million, respectively, in 2012). Of the total credit mark for performing loans of $587 million, $329 million represents the credit mark that will be amortized over the remaining life of the portfolio. The remaining $258 million represents the incurred credit mark and will be re-measured each reporting period. Purchased Credit Impaired Loans Subsequent to the acquisition date, we regularly re-evaluate what we expect to collect on the purchased credit impaired loans. Increases in expected cash flows will result in a recovery in the specific provision for credit losses and either a reduction in any previously recorded allowance for credit losses or, if no allowance exists, an increase in the current carrying value of the purchased credit impaired loans. Decreases in expected cash flows will result in a charge to the specific provision for credit losses and an increase in the allowance for credit losses. The impact of these evaluations for the year ended October 31, 2013 was a $410 million recovery in the specific provision for credit losses ($509 million recovery in 2012 and $nil in 2011). As at October 31, 2013, the amount of purchased credit impaired loans remaining on the balance sheet was $0.7 billion ($1.2 billion in 2012). As at October 31, 2013, the credit mark remaining related to purchased credit impaired loans was $128 million ($445 million in 2012). Unfunded Commitments and Letters of Credit Acquired As part of our acquisition of M&I, we recorded a liability related to unfunded commitments and letters of credit. The total credit mark and interest rate mark associated with unfunded commitments and letters of credit are amortized into net interest income on a straight-line basis over the contractual term of the acquired liabilities. As the credit mark is amortized, an appropriate collective allowance is recorded, consistent with our methodology for the collective allowance. As at October 31, 2013, the credit mark remaining on unfunded commitments and letters of credit acquired was $15 million ($99 million in 2012). FDIC Covered Loans Certain acquired loans are subject to a loss share agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). Under this agreement, the FDIC reimburses us for 80% of the net losses we incur on the covered loans. We recorded net recoveries of $15 million for the year ended October 31, 2013 ($27 million in 2012). These amounts are net of the amounts expected to be reimbursed by the FDIC. Note 5: Other Credit
 Instruments
 We use off-balance sheet credit instruments as a method of meeting the financial needs of our customers. Summarized below are the types of instruments that we use: ‰ Standby letters of credit and guarantees represent our obligation to make payments to third parties on behalf of another party if that party is unable to make the required payments or meet other contractual requirements. Standby letters of credit and guarantees include our guarantee of a subsidiary’s debt to a third party; ‰Securities lending represents our credit exposure when we lend our securities, or our customers’ securities, to third parties should a securities borrower default on its redelivery obligation; ‰Documentary and commercial letters of credit represent our agreement to honour drafts presented by a third party upon completion of specific activities; and ‰Commitments to extend credit represent our commitment to our customers to grant them credit in the form of loans or other financings for specific amounts and maturities, subject to their meeting certain conditions. The contractual amount of our other credit instruments represents the maximum undiscounted potential credit risk if the counterparty does not perform according to the terms of the contract, before possible recoveries under recourse and collateral provisions. Collateral requirements for these instruments are consistent with collateral requirements for loans. A large majority of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. As a result, the total contractual amounts may not be representative of the funding likely to be required for these commitments. We strive to limit credit risk by dealing only with counterparties that we believe are creditworthy, and we manage our credit risk for other credit instruments using the same credit risk process that is applied to loans and other credit assets. Summarized information related to various commitments is as follows: (Canadian $ in millions)2013 2012 Contractual Contractual amount amount Credit Instruments Standby letters of credit and guarantees 13,470 11,851 Securities lending 3,772 1,531 Documentary and commercial letters of credit 1,205 999 Commitments to extend credit (1) – Original maturity of one year and under 13,107 15,429 – Original maturity of over one year 58,428 44,556 Total 89,982 74,366 (1) Commitments to extend credit exclude personal lines of credit and credit card lines of credit that are unconditionally cancellable at our discretion. Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 141 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Note 6: Risk Management We have an enterprise-wide approach to the identification, measurement, monitoring and management of risks faced across the organization. The key risks related to our financial instruments are classified as credit and counterparty, market, and liquidity and funding risk. Credit and Counterparty Risk We are exposed to credit risk arising from the possibility that counterparties may default on their financial obligations to us. Credit risk arises predominantly with respect to loans, over-the-counter derivatives and other credit instruments. This is the most significant measurable risk that we face. Our risk management practices and key measures are disclosed in the text and tables presented in a blue-tinted font in Management’s Discussion and Analysis on pages 83 to 84 of this report. Additional information on loans and derivative-related credit risk is disclosed in Notes 4 and 10, respectively. Concentrations of Credit and Counterparty Risk Concentrations of credit risk exist if a number of clients are engaged in similar activities, are located in the same geographic region or have similar economic characteristics such that their ability to meet contractual obligations could be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations of credit risk indicate a related sensitivity of our performance to developments affecting a particular counterparty, industry or geographic location. At year end, our credit assets consisted of a well-diversified portfolio representing millions of clients, the majority of them consumers and small to medium-sized businesses. From an industry viewpoint, our most significant exposure as at year end was to individual consumers, captured in the “individual” sector, comprising $181.6 billion ($177.6 billion in 2012). Additional information on the composition of our loans and derivatives exposure is disclosed in Notes 4 and 10, respectively. Basel III Framework We use the Basel III Framework as our capital management framework. We use the Advanced Internal Ratings Based (“AIRB”) approach to determine credit risk-weighted assets in our portfolio except for acquired loans in our M&I and other select portfolios, for which we use the Standardized Approach. The framework uses exposure at default to assess credit and counterparty risk. Exposures are classified as follows: ‰ Drawn loans include loans, acceptances, deposits with regulated financial institutions, and certain securities. Exposure at default (“EAD”) represents an estimate of the outstanding amount of a credit exposure at the time a default may occur. For off-balance sheet amounts and undrawn amounts, EAD includes an estimate of any further amounts that may be drawn at the time of default. ‰ Undrawn commitments cover all unutilized authorizations, including those which are unconditionally cancellable. EAD for undrawn commitments is model generated based on internal empirical data. ‰ Over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives are those in our proprietary accounts that attract credit risk in addition to market risk. EAD for OTC derivatives is equal to the net gross replacement cost plus any potential credit exposure amount. ‰ Other off-balance sheet exposures include items such as guarantees, standby letters of credit and documentary credits. EAD for other off-balance sheet items is based on management’s best estimate. ‰ Repo-style transactions include repos, reverse repos and securities lending transactions, which represent both asset and liability exposures. EAD for repo-style transactions is the total amount drawn, adding back any write-offs. ‰ Adjusted EAD represents exposures that have been redistributed to a more favourable probability of default band or a different Basel asset class as a result of applying credit risk mitigation. Total non-trading exposure at default by industry sector, as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, based on the Basel III classifications are as follows: Commitments Other off-balance (Canadian $ in millions) Drawn (undrawn) OTC derivatives sheet items Repo-style transactions Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Financial institutions 60,448 46,398 12,693 10,887 – 104 2,978 2,544 27,515 55,471 103,634 115,404 Governments 43,142 44,190 1,581 1,292 – – 1,333 1,002 9,503 14,537 55,559 61,021 Manufacturing 11,617 10,053 9,125 5,502 14 20 1,061 941 – – 21,817 16,516 Real estate 18,532 17,462 4,639 2,094 – 1 1,122 762 – – 24,293 20,319 Retail trade 9,394 8,666 4,675 3,396 – 1 532 463 – – 14,601 12,526 Service industries 22,999 19,483 8,161 5,293 6 29 3,547 2,558 – 949 34,713 28,312 Wholesale trade 7,465 8,554 3,927 3,738 – 7 365 1,370 – – 11,757 13,669 Oil and gas 3,831 3,492 5,807 4,801 – – 401 189 – – 10,039 8,482 Individual 139,905 130,385 41,576 47,166 – – 67 40 – 21 181,548 177,612 Others (1) 33,028 28,515 13,370 10,274 3 4 3,270 2,980 – 34 49,671 41,807 Total exposure at default 350,361 317,198 105,554 94,443 23 166 14,676 12,849 37,018 71,012 507,632 495,668 Notes (1) Includes industries having a total exposure of less than 2%. Additional information about our credit risk exposure by geographic region and product category for loans, including customers’ liability under acceptances, is provided in Note 4. Credit Quality We assign risk ratings based on probabilities as to whether Based on the Basel III classifications, the following tables present counterparties will default on their financial obligations to us. Our our retail and wholesale credit exposure by risk rating on an adjusted process for assigning risk ratings is discussed in the text presented in a exposure at default basis as at October 31, 2013 and 2012. Wholesale blue-tinted font in the Enterprise-Wide Risk Management section of includes all loans that are not classified as retail. Management’s Discussion and Analysis on page 83 of this report. 142 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Wholesale Credit Exposure by Risk Rating (Canadian $ in millions) Drawn
 Undrawn (1) 2013 Total 2012 Total Bank Corporate Sovereign Bank Corporate Sovereign exposure exposure Investment grade 19,987 72,930 91,288 2,252 42,606 1,595 230,658 196,679 Non-investment grade 3,816 32,841 122 149 14,717 14 51,659 35,838 Watchlist 12 2,001 8 4 445 – 2,470 2,470 Default 39 1,942 – – 105 – 2,086 1,600 Total 23,854 109,714 91,418 2,405 57,873 1,609 286,873 236,587 (1) Included in the undrawn amounts are uncommitted exposures of $23,662 million in 2013 ($15,374 million in 2012). Retail Credit Drawn Exposure by Portfolio and Risk Rating Residential mortgages and Other retail and retail small (Canadian $ in millions) home equity lines of credit Qualifying revolving retail (1) and medium-sized enterprises 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Risk profile (probability of default): Exceptionally Low (0.05%) 983 997 320 634 71 60 Very low (> 0.05% to 0.20%) 47,622 34,347 1,711 1,822 7,521 6,296 Low (> 0.20% to 0.75%) 11,216 14,623 2,578 2,656 7,995 7,435 Medium (> 0.75% to 7.00%) 8,925 10,896 2,073 2,649 7,255 6,031 High (> 7.00% to 99.99%) 3,503 958 293 448 294 364 Default (100%) 829 756 36 32 86 69 Total 73,078 62,577 7,011 8,241 23,222 20,255 (1) Qualifying revolving retail includes exposures to individuals that are revolving, unsecured and uncommitted up to a maximum amount of $125,000 to
 a single individual. Loans Past Due Not Impaired Loans that are past due but not classified as impaired are loans where payments to be collected. The following table presents the loans that our customers have failed to make payments when contractually due, are past due but not classified as impaired as at October 31, 2013 but for which we expect the full amount of principal and interest and 2012: Loans Past Due Not Impaired (Canadian $ in millions) 1 to 29 days 30 to 89 days 90 days or more Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Residential mortgages (1) 641 543 524 505 65 124 1,230 1,172 Credit card, consumer instalment and other personal loans 1,747 1,535 434 407 95 104 2,276 2,046 Business and government loans 805 1,009 294 800 183 511 1,282 2,320 Customers' liability under acceptances – – 59 – – – 59 – Total 3,193 3,087 1,311 1,712 343 739 4,847 5,538 (1) The percentage of loans 90 days or more past due but not impaired, that were guaranteed by the Government of Canada is 5% for 2013 and 3% for 2012. Loan Maturities and Rate Sensitivity The following table provides gross loans and acceptances by contractual maturity and by country of ultimate risk: Over 1 year (Canadian $ in millions) 1 year or less to 5 years Over 5 years Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Canada Consumer 46,552 38,172 91,653 87,924 7,106 5,980 145,311 132,076 Commercial and corporate (excluding real estate) 36,744 36,892 10,572 6,898 1,356 1,751 48,672 45,541 Commercial real estate 5,405 4,685 4,540 3,850 778 678 10,723 9,213 United States 19,065 21,193 34,998 30,595 14,639 12,181 68,702 63,969 Other countries 6,758 4,168 594 574 – – 7,352 4,742 Total 114,524 105,110 142,357 129,841 23,879 20,590 280,760 255,541 Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. The following table analyzes net loans and acceptances by interest rate sensitivity: (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Fixed rate 139,832 114,607 Floating rate 130,797 131,214 Non-interest sensitive (1) 8,466 8,014 Total 279,095 253,835 (1) Non-interest sensitive loans and acceptances include customers’ liability under acceptances. Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. Market Risk Market risk is the potential
 for adverse
 changes in
 the
 value of
 our
 assets and liabilities resulting from changes in
 market
 variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange
 rates, equity
 and
 commodity prices and their
 implied volatilities,
 and credit
 spreads, as
 well
 as
 the risk of credit migration and default.
 We
 incur
 market risk in our trading
 and underwriting
 activities
 and in
 the
 management of structural market
 risk in
 our
 banking and
 insurance activities.
 Our market risk management practices and key measures are outlined in the text and tables presented in a blue-tinted font in the Enterprise-Wide Risk Management section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis on pages 87 to 91 of this report. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 143 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Liquidity and Funding Risk Liquidity and funding risk is the potential for loss if we are unable to meet financial commitments in a timely manner at reasonable prices as they fall due. It is our policy to ensure that sufficient liquid assets and funding capacity are available to meet financial commitments, including liabilities to depositors and suppliers, and lending, investment and pledging commitments, even in times of stress. Managing liquidity and funding risk is essential to maintaining both depositor confidence and stability in earnings. Our liquidity and funding risk management practices and key measures are outlined in the text presented in a blue-tinted font in the Enterprise-Wide Risk Management section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis on pages 92 to 94 of this report. Note 7: Guarantees In the normal course of business, we enter into a variety of guarantees. Guarantees include contracts where we may be required to make payments to a counterparty, based on changes in the value of an asset, liability or equity security that the counterparty holds, due to changes in an underlying interest rate, foreign exchange rate or other variable. In addition, contracts under which we may be required to make payments to reimburse the counterparty for a loss if a third party does not perform according to the terms of a contract or does not make payments when due under the terms of a debt instrument, and contracts under which we provide indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of another party, are considered guarantees. Guarantees that qualify as derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy for derivative instruments (see Note 10). For guarantees that do not qualify as a derivative, the liability is initially recorded at fair value, which is generally the fee to be received. Subsequently, guarantees are recorded at the higher of the initial fair value, less amortization to recognize any fee income earned over the period, and the best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation. Any increase in the liability is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The most significant guarantees are as follows: Standby Letters of Credit and Guarantees Standby letters of credit and guarantees represent our obligation to make payments to third parties on behalf of another party if that party is unable to make the required payments or meet other contractual requirements. The maximum amount payable under standby letters of credit and guarantees totalled $13,470 million as at October 31, 2013 ($11,851 million in 2012). The majority have a term of one year or less. Collateral requirements for standby letters of credit and guarantees are consistent with our collateral requirements for loans. A large majority of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. As a result, the total contractual amounts may not be representative of the funding likely to be required for these commitments. As at October 31, 2013, $41 million ($29 million in 2012) was included in other liabilities related to guaranteed parties that were unable to meet their obligations to a third party (see Note 4). No other amount was included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as at October 31, 2013 and 2012 related to these standby letters of credit and guarantees. Backstop and Other Liquidity Facilities Backstop liquidity facilities are provided to asset-backed commercial paper (“ABCP”) programs administered by either us or third parties as an alternative source of financing in the event that such programs are unable to access ABCP markets or when predetermined performance measures of the financial assets owned by these programs are not met. The terms of the backstop liquidity facilities do not require us to advance money to these programs in the event of bankruptcy of the borrower. The facilities’ terms are generally no longer than one year, but can be several years. The maximum amount payable under these backstop and other liquidity facilities totalled $4,512 million as at October 31, 2013 ($4,467 million in 2012). As at October 31, 2013, $145 million was outstanding from facilities drawn in accordance with the terms of the backstop liquidity facilities ($107 million in 2012). Credit Enhancement Facilities Where warranted, we provide partial credit enhancement facilities to transactions within ABCP programs administered by either us or third parties. Credit enhancement facilities are included in backstop liquidity facilities. Senior Funding Facility In addition to our investment in the notes subject to the Montreal Accord, we have provided a senior loan facility of $232 million as at October 31, 2013 ($295 million in 2012). No amounts were drawn as at October 31, 2013 and 2012. Derivatives Certain of our derivative instruments meet the accounting definition of a guarantee when they require the issuer to make payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred because a debtor fails to make payment when due under the terms of a debt instrument. In order to reduce our exposure to these derivatives, we enter into contracts that hedge the related risks. Written credit default swaps require us to compensate a counterparty following the occurrence of a credit event in relation to a specified reference obligation, such as a bond or a loan. The maximum amount payable under credit default swaps is equal to their notional amount of $13,288 million as at October 31, 2013 ($24,126 million in 2012). The terms of these contracts range from less than one year to 10 years. The fair value of the related derivative liabilities included in derivative instruments in our Consolidated Balance Sheet was $102 million as at October 31, 2013 ($156 million in 2012). Exchange and Clearinghouse Guarantees We are a member of several securities and futures exchanges and clearinghouses. Membership in certain of these organizations may require us to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by the organization in the event of default of another member. Such obligations vary with different organizations. These obligations may be limited to members who dealt with the defaulting member, an amount related to our contribution to a member’s guarantee fund, or an amount specified in the membership agreement. It is difficult to estimate our maximum exposure under these membership agreements, since this would require an assessment of future claims that may be made against us that have not yet occurred. Based on historical experience, we expect the risk of loss to be remote. Indemnification Agreements In the normal course of operations, we enter into various agreements that provide general indemnifications. These indemnifications typically occur in connection with sales of assets, securities offerings, service contracts, membership agreements, clearing arrangements, derivatives contracts and leasing transactions. We also have a securities lending business that lends securities owned by clients to borrowers who have been evaluated for credit risk using the same credit risk process that is applied to loans and other credit assets. In connection with these Notes 144 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 activities, we provide an indemnification to lenders against losses value of the securities borrowed. The collateral is revalued on a daily resulting from the failure of the borrower to return loaned securities basis. The amount of securities loaned subject to indemnification was when due. All borrowings are fully collateralized with cash or $4,778 million as at October 31, 2013 ($4,343 million in 2012). No marketable securities. As securities are loaned, we require borrowers to amount was included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as at maintain collateral which is equal to or in excess of 100% of the fair October 31, 2013 and 2012 related to these indemnifications. Note 8: Asset Securitization
 Periodically, we securitize loans to obtain alternate sources of funding. Securitization involves selling loans to trusts (“securitization vehicles”), which buy the loans and then issue either interest bearing or discounted investor certificates. We use a bank securitization vehicle to securitize our Canadian credit card loans. We are required to consolidate this vehicle. See Note 9 for further information. We also sell Canadian mortgage loans to third-party Canadian securitization programs, including the Canadian Mortgage Bond program, and directly to third-party investors under the National Housing Act Mortgage-Backed Securities program. Under these programs, we are entitled to the payment over time of the excess of the sum of interest and fees collected from customers, in connection with the loans that were sold, over the yield paid to investors in the securitization vehicle or third-party securitization program, less credit losses and other costs. We assess whether the loans qualify for off-balance sheet treatment based on the transfer of the risks and rewards. The loans sold to third-party securitization programs or directly to third parties do not qualify for off-balance sheet recognition as we have determined that the transfer of these loans has not resulted in the transfer of substantially all the risks and rewards, since we continue to be exposed to substantially all of the prepayment, interest rate and/or credit risk associated with the securitized financial assets. We continue to recognize the loans in our Consolidated Balance Sheet, and we recognize the instruments issued as a liability representing a secured financing. The grouped payments received may be held on behalf of the investors in the securitization vehicles or designated accounts until principal payments are required to be made on the associated liabilities. In order to compare all assets supporting the associated liabilities, the payments held in the securitization vehicles or designated accounts on behalf of the investors are added to the carrying value of the securitized assets in the table below. The interest and fees collected, net of the yield paid to investors is recorded in net interest income using the effective interest method over the term of the securitization. Credit losses associated with the loans are recorded in the provision for credit losses. During the year ended October 31, 2013, we sold $6,704 million of loans to third-party securitization programs which does not include amounts that were transferred and repurchased during the year ($6,548 million in 2012). The following table shows the carrying amounts related to securitization activities with third parties that are recorded on our Consolidated Balance
 Sheet, together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset on the balance sheet: (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 (1) 2012 Carrying amount of assets Associated liabilities Carrying amount of assets Associated liabilities Available-for-sale securities Residential mortgages – 9,956 428 9,020 Other related assets (2) 9,956 8,660 9,448 11,105 Total 18,616 18,235 20,553 20,312 (1) The fair value of the securitized assets is $18,687 million and the fair value of the associated liabilities is $18,454 million, for a net position of $233 million. Securitized assets are those which we have transferred to third parties, including other related assets. (2) Other related assets represent payments received on account of loans pledged under securitization that have not been applied against the associated liabilities. The payments received are held on behalf of the investors in the securitization vehicles until principal payments are required to be made on the associated liability. In order to compare all assets supporting the associated liability, this amount is added to the carrying value of the securitized assets in the above table. Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. Note 9: Special Purpose
 Entities We enter into certain transactions in the ordinary course of business which involve the establishment of special purpose entities (“SPEs”) to facilitate or secure customer transactions and to obtain alternative sources of funding. We are required to consolidate a SPE if we control the entity. The following circumstances are considered when assessing whether we, in substance, control the SPE and consequently are required to consolidate: ‰ the activities of the SPE are being conducted on our behalf according to our specific business needs so that we obtain benefits from the SPE’s operations; ‰ we have the decision-making powers necessary to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE or, by setting up an “autopilot” mechanism, we have delegated these decision-making powers; ‰ we have rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks incidental to the activities of the SPE; or ‰ we retain the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to obtain benefits from its activities. We consider all aspects of the relationship between us and the SPE to determine whether we ultimately have the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the SPE, so as to obtain the majority of the benefits from the SPE’s activities. We perform a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 145 2012 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Total assets and liabilities included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet related to our unconsolidated SPEs and our related exposure to losses are summarized in the following table: (Canadian $ in millions)2013 Structured Structured Canadian customer finance Canadian customer finance securitization vehicles vehicles securitization vehicles vehicles On-balance sheet assets at carrying value Trading securities Available-for-sale securities – 13 12,120 – 20 98 10,324 – Loans 81 – – – Other – 119 – – 94 12,239 118 10,324 On-balance sheet liabilities at carrying value Deposits 
Derivatives – 
– 6,584 985 – 
– 5,175 607 Other – 4,582 – 4,350 – 12,151 – 10,132 Exposure to loss Securities held 94 12,116 118 10,324 Drawn facilities – – – – Undrawn facilities (1) 3,866 na 3,691 na Derivative assets – – – – 3,960 12,116 3,809 10,324 (1) These facilities are backstop liquidity facilities provided to our Canadian customer securitization vehicles. None of the backstop liquidity facilities
 provided to our Canadian customer securitization vehicles related to credit support as at October 31, 2013 and 2012.na – not applicableTotal assets and liabilities included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet related to our consolidated SPEs and our exposure to losses are summarized in the following table, with the exception of our compensation trusts, which are described in further detail below: (Canadian $ in millions)2013 Canadian U.S.Canadian U.S. Bank customer customer Capital Bank customer customer Capital securit-securit-securit-Credit Structured and securit-securit-securit-Credit Structured and ization ization ization protection investment funding ization ization ization protection investment funding vehicle vehicles vehicle vehicle (1) vehicles (2) vehicles (3) vehicle vehicles vehicle vehicle vehicles vehicles (3) On-balance sheet assets at carrying value Cash and cash equivalents – – 370 1,430 7 319 – – 10 2,069 – 433 Trading securities ––––
 ––
 – – – 157 1,597 – Available-for-sale securities ––––
 ––
 –––––
 – Loans 7,190 – 3,537 – – 20,717 7,264 – 3,364 – – 13,230 Other 25640
 3 – –40
 46574
 4–
 – 33 7,215 640 3,910 1,430 7 21,076 7,310 574 3,378 2,226 1,597 13,696 On-balance sheet liabilities at carrying value Deposits – –3,578
 – – – – –3,118
 – – – Subordinated debt – – ––
 –802
 – – ––
 –802
 Capital Trust Securities – – ––
 –463
 – – ––
 –462
 Other 4,328 – 2530
 7 18 5,186 – 5 819 184 18 4,328 – 3,580 530 7 1,283 5,186 – 3,123 819 184 1,282 Exposure to loss Securities held 1,499 640 – 922 – 842 192 574 – 1,385 – 842 Drawn facilities – – 264 – – 18,579 – – 58 – 1,440 11,132 Undrawn facilities – – 4,417 – – 7,026 – 7 4,144 522 40 2,973 Derivative assets – – –20
 –84
 – – 21041
 91 1,499 640 4,681 942 – 26,531 192 581 4,204 2,011 1,481 15,038 (1) During the year ended October 31, 2013, the senior funding facility provided to our creditMortgages in excess of the amount of covered bonds outstanding plus minimum required protection vehicle was terminated. over-collateralization amounts under these programs are readily available to the bank. The (2) During the year ended October 31, 2013, Links Finance Corporation sold its remaining assetsundrawn facilities also primarily relate to our covered bond programs; the bank retains the and fully repaid our liquidity facility. authority to determine whether the facilities are utilized. (3) The loans balance primarily consists of mortgages transferred to our covered bond programs. Notes 146 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 2012 Customer Securitization Vehicles We sponsor customer securitization vehicles (also referred to as bank-sponsored multi-seller conduits) that provide our customers with alternate sources of funding through the securitization of their assets. These vehicles provide clients with access to financing in the asset-backed commercial paper (“ABCP”) markets by allowing them to sell their assets into these vehicles, which then issue ABCP to investors to fund the purchases. We do not service the transferred assets because the responsibility is retained by the client. If there are losses on the assets, the seller is the first to take the loss. We do not sell assets to these customer securitization vehicles. We earn fees for providing services related to the securitizations, including liquidity, distribution and financial arrangement fees for supporting the ongoing operations of the vehicles. For our Canadian customer securitization vehicles, we determined that we control and must consolidate certain of these vehicles, as we have the right to obtain the majority of the benefits through our ownership of ABCP. For
 our
 U.S.
 customer
 securitization
 vehicle, we
 determined
 that
 we
 control and
 must consolidate this
 vehicle,
 as
 we
 have key
 decision-making powers to obtain the majority
 of
 the
 benefits from the vehicle’s
 activities. Bank Securitization Vehicle We use a bank securitization vehicle to
 securitize
 our
 Canadian credit card loans in
 order
 to obtain alternate sources
 of funding. The structure
 of this vehicle limits the
 types of
 activities
 it
 can
 undertake and
 the types
 of assets it can hold, and the
 vehicle has limited decision-making authority.
 This vehicle issues
 term asset-backed securities to fund its activities.
 We control and
 must consolidate this
 vehicle,
 as
 we
 have key
 decision-making powers to obtain the majority
 of
 the benefits of its activities.
 Credit Protection Vehicle We sponsor a credit protection vehicle, Apex Trust (“Apex”),
 that provides credit protection to investors on
 investments
 in corporate debt portfolios through credit
 default
 swaps. In May 2008, upon the restructuring of Apex, we
 entered
 into credit default swaps
 with swap counterparties and offsetting swaps with
 Apex.
 In 2013, Apex redeemed $742 million of
 its
 outstanding medium-term
 notes, of which $480 million were
 held by us.
 We continue to hold $934 million of
 outstanding
 medium-term notes. As
 at October 31, 2013 and 2012, we have hedged our
 exposure to our holdings of notes issued
 by Apex. Since
 2008, a third
 party has held its exposure to Apex through a total return swap
 with
 us
 on
 $600 million of
 notes. We control and
 must consolidate this
 vehicle.
 Structured Investment Vehicles Structured investment vehicles (“SIVs”) provide investment opportunities in customized, diversified debt portfolios in a variety of asset and rating classes. At October 31, 2013, we held interests in Links Finance Corporation (“Links”), which we consolidate, as we have key decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of its activities. During the year ended October 31, 2013, Links sold its remaining assets and fully repaid our senior liquidity facility. During the year ended October 31, 2012, Parkland Finance Corporation sold its remaining assets, fully repaid our liquidity facility and distributed the remaining proceeds to its capital note holders. Structured Finance Vehicles We facilitate development of investment products by third parties, including mutual funds, unit investment trusts and other investment funds that are sold to retail investors. We enter into derivatives with these funds to provide the investors their desired exposure, and we hedge our exposure related to these derivatives by investing in other funds through SPEs. We are not required to consolidate these vehicles. Capital and Funding Vehicles Capital and Funding vehicles are created to issue notes or capital trust securities or to guarantee payments due to bondholders on bonds issued by us. These vehicles purchase notes from us, or we may sell assets to the vehicles in exchange for promissory notes. We control and must consolidate these vehicles, as the majority of the activities of these vehicles are conducted on our behalf. See Note 1 and Note 18 for further information related to the Capital Trusts. Compensation Trusts We have established trusts in order to administer our employee share ownership plan. Under this plan, employees can direct a portion of their gross salary towards the purchase of our common shares and we match 50% of employees’ contributions up to 6% of their individual gross salary. Our matching contributions are paid into trusts, which purchase our shares on the open market for distribution to employees once employees are entitled to the shares under the terms of the plan. Total assets held by our compensation trusts amounted to $1,343 million as at October 31, 2013 ($1,140 million in 2012). We are not required to consolidate these compensation trusts. Other SPEs We are involved with other entities that may potentially be SPEs. This involvement can include, for example, acting as a derivatives counterparty, liquidity provider, investor, fund manager or trustee. These activities do not cause us to control these SPEs. As a result, we are not required to consolidate these SPEs. Transactions with these SPEs are conducted at market rates, and individual creditor investment decisions are based upon the analysis of the specific SPE, taking into consideration the quality of the underlying assets. We record and report these transactions in the same manner as other transactions. For example, derivative contracts are recorded in accordance with our derivatives accounting policy as outlined in Note 10. Liquidity facilities and indemnification agreements are described in Note 7. Note 10: Derivative Instruments Derivative instruments are financial contracts that derive their value from underlying changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates or other financial or commodity prices or indices. Derivative instruments are either regulated exchange-traded contracts or negotiated over-the-counter contracts. We use these instruments for trading purposes, as well as to manage our exposures, mainly to currency and interest rate fluctuations, as part of our asset/ liability management program. Types of Derivatives Swaps Swaps are contractual agreements between two parties to exchange a series of cash flows. The various swap agreements that we enter into are as follows: Interest rate swaps – counterparties generally exchange fixed and floating rate interest payments based on a notional value in a single currency. Cross-currency swaps – fixed rate interest payments and principal amounts are exchanged in different currencies. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 147 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Cross-currency interest rate swaps – fixed and/or floating rate interest payments and principal amounts are exchanged in different currencies. Commodity swaps – counterparties generally exchange fixed and floating rate payments based on a notional value of a single commodity. Equity swaps – counterparties exchange the return on an equity security or a group of equity securities for the return based on a fixed or floating interest rate or the return on another equity security or group of equity securities. Credit default swaps – one counterparty pays the other a fee in exchange for that other counterparty agreeing to make a payment if a credit event occurs, such as bankruptcy or failure to pay. Total return swaps – one counterparty agrees to pay or receive from the other cash amounts based on changes in the value of a reference asset or group of assets, including any returns such as interest earned on these assets, in exchange for amounts that are based on prevailing market funding rates. The main risks associated with these instruments are related to exposure to movements in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit quality, securities values or commodities prices, as applicable, and the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of the contracts. Forwards and Futures Forwards and futures are contractual
 agreements to either buy or
 sell
 a specified amount
 of
 a currency, commodity,
 interest-rate-sensitive
 financial instrument
 or
 security
 at
 a specified price
 and date
 in
 the
 future. Forwards are customized contracts transacted in the over-the<counter market. Futures are transacted in standardized amounts on regulated exchanges and are subject to daily cash margining. The main risks associated with these instruments arise from the possible inability of over-the-counter counterparties to meet the terms of the contracts and from movements in commodities prices, securities values, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as applicable. Options Options are
 contractual agreements
 that
 convey
 to
 the
 purchaser the
 right but
 not the
 obligation to
 either
 buy
 or sell a specified
 amount of a currency, commodity, interest-rate-sensitive
 financial instrument
 or
 security at a fixed future date or at any time
 within
 a fixed future period.
 For options written by us, we receive a premium from the purchaser for accepting market risk. For options purchased by us, we pay a premium for the right to exercise the option. Since we have no obligation to exercise the option, our primary exposure to risk is the potential credit risk if the writer of an over-the-counter contract fails to meet the terms of the contract. Caps, collars and floors are specialized types of written and purchased options. They are contractual agreements in which the writer agrees to pay the purchaser, based on a specified notional amount, the difference between the market rate and the prescribed rate of the cap, collar or floor. The writer receives a premium for selling this instrument. A swaption is an option granting its owner the right but not the obligation to enter into an underlying swap. A future option is an option contract in which the underlying instrument is a single futures contract. Use of Derivatives Trading Derivatives Trading derivatives include derivatives entered into with customers to accommodate their risk management needs, derivatives transacted to generate trading income from our own proprietary trading positions and certain derivatives that do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes (“economic hedges”). We structure and market derivative products to enable customers to transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks. Proprietary activities include market-making, positioning and arbitrage activities. Market-making involves quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants with the intention of generating revenues based on spread and volume. Positioning activities involve managing market risk positions with the expectation of profiting from favourable movements in prices, rates or indices. Arbitrage activities involve identifying and profiting from price differentials between markets and products. We may also take proprietary trading positions in various capital market instruments and derivatives that, taken together, are designed to profit from anticipated changes in market conditions. Trading derivatives are marked to fair value. Realized and unrealized gains and losses are recorded in trading revenues (losses) in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Unrealized gains on trading derivatives are recorded as derivative instrument assets and unrealized losses are recorded as derivative instrument liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Hedging Derivatives In accordance with our risk management strategy, we enter into various derivative contracts to hedge our interest rate and foreign currency exposures. Risks Hedged Interest Rate Risk We manage interest rate risk through bonds, interest rate futures, interest rate swaps and options, which are linked to and adjust the interest rate sensitivity of a specific asset, liability, forecasted transaction or firm commitment, or a specific pool of transactions with similar risk characteristics. Foreign Currency Risk We manage foreign currency risk through currency futures, foreign currency options, cross-currency swaps and forward contracts. These derivatives are marked to market, with realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in non-interest revenue, consistent with the accounting treatment for gains and losses on the economically hedged item. Changes in fair value on forward contracts that qualify as accounting hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income, with the spot/forward differential (the difference between the foreign currency exchange rate at inception of the contract and the rate at the end of the contract) being recorded in interest expense over the term of the hedge. We also sometimes economically hedge U.S. dollar earnings
 through forward
 foreign exchange contracts to
 minimize
 fluctuations in
 our
 Canadian dollar earnings
 due
 to the translation
 of our U.S.
 dollar
 earnings.
 These contracts
 are marked
 to
 fair value, with
 gains
 and losses
 recorded as non-interest revenue in
 foreign exchange, other
 than trading. Accounting Hedges In order for a derivative to qualify as an accounting hedge, the hedging relationship must be designated and formally documented at its inception, detailing the particular risk management objective and strategy for the hedge and the specific asset, liability or cash flow being hedged, as well as how its effectiveness is being assessed. Changes in the fair value of the derivative must be highly effective in offsetting either changes in the fair value of on-balance sheet items caused by the risk being hedged or changes in the amount of future cash flows. Hedge effectiveness is evaluated at the inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis, retrospectively and prospectively, primarily using quantitative statistical measures of correlation. Any ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship is recognized in non-interest revenue, other, in our Consolidated Statement of Income as it arises. 148 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Cash Flow Hedges Cash flow hedges modify exposure to variability in cash flows for variable rate interest bearing instruments and assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Our cash flow hedges, which have a maximum remaining term to maturity of eleven years, are hedges of floating rate loans and deposits as well as assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. We record interest that we pay or receive on these derivatives as an adjustment to net interest income in our Consolidated Statement of Income over the life of the hedge. To the extent that changes in the fair value of the derivative offset changes in the fair value of the hedged item, they are recorded in other comprehensive income. The excess of the change in fair value of the derivative that does not offset changes in the fair value of the hedged item (the “ineffectiveness of the hedge”) is recorded directly in non-interest revenue, other, in our Consolidated Statement of Income. For cash flow hedges that are discontinued before the end of the original hedge term, the unrealized gain or loss recorded in other comprehensive income is amortized to net interest income in our Consolidated Statement of Income as the hedged item affects earnings. If the hedged item is sold or settled, the entire unrealized gain or loss is recognized in net interest income in our Consolidated Statement of Income. The amount of unrealized gain that we expect to reclassify to our Consolidated Statement of Income over the next 12 months is $107 million ($79 million after tax). This will adjust the interest recorded on assets and liabilities that were hedged. Fair Value Hedges Fair value hedges modify exposure to changes in a fixed rate instrument’s fair value caused by changes in interest rates. These hedges convert fixed rate assets and liabilities to floating rate. Our fair value hedges include hedges of fixed rate securities, deposits and subordinated debt. We record interest receivable or payable on these derivatives as an adjustment to net interest income in our Consolidated Statement of Income over the life of the hedge. For fair value hedges, not only is the hedging derivative recorded at fair value but fixed rate assets and liabilities that are part of a hedging relationship are adjusted for the changes in value of the risk being hedged (“quasi fair value”). To the extent that the change in the fair value of the derivative does not offset changes in the quasi fair value of the hedged item (the “ineffectiveness of the hedge”), the net amount is recorded directly in non-interest revenue, other, in our Consolidated Statement of Income. For fair value hedges that are discontinued, we cease adjusting the hedged item to quasi fair value. The quasi fair value adjustment of the hedged item is then amortized as an adjustment to the net interest income on the hedged item over its remaining term to maturity. If the hedged item is sold or settled, any remaining quasi fair value adjustment is included in the determination of the gain or loss on sale or settlement. We did not hedge any commitments during the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012. Net Investment Hedges Net investment hedges mitigate our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to our net investment in foreign operations. Deposit liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are designated as hedges of this exposure. The foreign currency translation of our net investment in foreign operations and the corresponding hedging instrument is recorded in net gain (loss) on translation of net foreign operations in other comprehensive income. To the extent that the hedging instrument is not effective, amounts are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income in foreign exchange, other than trading. There was no hedge ineffectiveness associated with net investment hedges for the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012. We use foreign currency deposits with a term to maturity of zero to three months as hedging instruments in net investment hedges, and the fair value of such deposits was $7,547 million as at October 31, 2013 ($6,867 million in 2012). Fair Value Hedging Relationships The following table presents the impact of fair value hedges on our financial results. (Canadian $ in millions) Pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded in income Amount of gain/(loss) on Quasi fair value Hedge ineffectiveness recorded Contract type hedging derivatives (1) adjustment (2) in non-interest revenue – other Interest rate contracts – 2013 (371) 360 (11) 2012 42 (44) (2) 2011 245 (276) (31) (1) Unrealized gains (losses) on hedging derivatives are recorded in Other Assets – Derivative (2) Unrealized gains (losses) on hedged items are recorded in Securities – Available for sale, instruments or Other Liabilities – Derivative instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Subordinated Debt and Deposits. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 149 Notes Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Cash Flow Hedging Relationships The following table presents the impact of cash flow hedges on our financial results. (Canadian $ in millions ) Contract type Fair value change recorded in other comprehensive income Fair value change recorded in non-interest revenue – other Pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded in income Reclassification of gains (losses) on designated hedges from other comprehensive income to net interest income Amortization of spot/forward differential on foreign exchange contracts to interest expense 2013Interest rate (86) – 195–Foreign exchange 49 – –(25)Total (37) – 195 (25) 2012 
Interest rate (44) 3 177 – Foreign exchange (27) – – (32) Total (71) 3 177 (32) 2011 
Interest rate 345 8 98 – Foreign exchange 120 – – (66) Total 465 8 98 (66) Embedded Derivatives From time to time, we purchase or issue financial instruments containing embedded derivatives. The embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and carried at fair value if the economic characteristics of the derivative are not closely related to those of the host contract, the terms of the embedded derivative are the same as those of a stand-alone derivative, and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value. To the extent that we cannot reliably identify and measure the embedded derivative, the entire contract is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in income. Embedded derivatives in certain of our equity linked notes are accounted for separately from the host instrument. Contingent Features Certain over-the-counter derivative instruments contain provisions that link the amount of collateral we are required to post or payment requirements to our credit ratings (as determined by the major credit rating agencies). If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, certain counterparties to these derivative instruments could demand immediate and ongoing collateralization overnight on derivative liability positions or request immediate payment. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with collateral posting requirements that were in a liability position on October 31, 2013 is $4.6 billion, for which we have posted collateral of $5.2 billion. If our credit rating had been downgraded to A and A-on
 October 31, 2013 (per Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services), we would have been required to post collateral or meet payment demands of an additional $0.1 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively. Fair Value Fair value represents point-in-time estimates that may change in subsequent reporting periods due to market conditions or other factors. Discussion of the fair value measurement of derivatives is included in Note 29. 150 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Fair values of our derivative instruments are as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Gross Gross Gross Gross assets liabilities Net assets liabilities Net Trading Interest Rate Contracts Swaps 21,251 (20,327) 924 36,040 (35,207) 833 Forward rate agreements 5 (5) – 98 (104) (6) Futures 1 (3) (2) 1 (3) (2) Purchased options 595 – 595 1,180 – 1,180 Written options – (672) (672) – (1,208) (1,208) Foreign Exchange Contracts Cross-currency swaps 1,156 (897) 259 1,159 (1,406) (247) Cross-currency interest rate swaps 3,459 (3,641) (182) 4,408 (4,193) 215 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,552 (1,549) 3 1,713 (1,768) (55) Purchased options 100 – 100 140 – 140 Written options – (88) (88) – (109) (109) Commodity Contracts Swaps 501 (543) (42) 804 (1,180) (376) Purchased options 238 – 238 428 – 428 Written options – (290) (290) – (561) (561) Equity Contracts 536 (3,067) (2,531) 367 (2,268) (1,901) Credit Default Swaps Purchased 90 – 90 237 – 237 Written – (102) (102) – (156) (156) Total fair value – trading derivatives 29,484 (31,184) (1,700) 46,575 (48,163) (1,588) Average fair value (1) 38,016 (39,565) (1,549) 49,911 (50,212) (301) Hedging 
Interest Rate Contracts Cash flow hedges – swaps 110 (169) (59) 134 (146) (12) Fair value hedges – swaps 260 (348) (88) 737 (396) 341 Total swaps 370 (517) (147) 871 (542) 329 Foreign Exchange Contracts Cash flow hedges – forward foreign exchange contracts 405 (273) 132 625 (31) 594 Total foreign exchange contracts 405 (273) 132 625 (31) 594 Total fair value – hedging derivatives (2) 775 (790) (15) 1,496 (573) 923 Average fair value (1) 1,100 (674) 426 2,287 (768) 1,519 Total fair value – trading and hedging derivatives 30,259 (31,974) (1,715) 48,071 (48,736) (665) Less: impact of master netting agreements (27,493) 27,493 – (35,087) 35,087 – Total 2,766 (4,481) (1,715) 12,984 (13,649) (665) (1) Average fair value amounts are calculated using a five-quarter rolling average. Assets are shown net of liabilities to customers where we have a legally enforceable right to offset (2) The fair values of hedging derivatives wholly or partially offset the changes in fair values ofamounts and we intend to settle contracts on a net basis. the related on-balance sheet financial instruments or future cash flows. Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. Derivative instruments recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet are as follows: (Canadian $ in millions)Assets Liabilities 2013 2012 2013 2012 Fair value of trading derivatives 29,484
 46,575 31,184
 48,163 Fair value of hedging derivatives 775
 1,496 790 573 Total 30,259 48,071 31,974 48,736 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 151 Notes 2012 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Notional Amounts The notional amounts of our derivatives represent the amount to which a rate or price is applied in order to calculate the amount of cash that must be exchanged under the contract. Notional amounts do not represent assets or liabilities and therefore are not recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 Notes Hedging Hedging Cash Fair Cash Fair Trading flow value Total Trading flow value Total Interest Rate Contracts Over-the-counter Swaps 2,139,706 41,138 43,942 2,224,786 1,880,368 35,802 49,006 1,965,176 Forward rate agreements 399,751 – – 399,751 569,748 – – 569,748 Purchased options 18,283 – – 18,283 24,015 – – 24,015 Written options 23,020 – – 23,020 31,364 – – 31,364 2,580,760 41,138 43,942 2,665,840 2,505,495 35,802 49,006 2,590,303 Exchange-traded Futures 111,913 – – 111,913 76,306 – – 76,306 Purchased options 16,534 – – 16,534 16,307 – – 16,307 Written options 15,429 – – 15,429 13,818 – – 13,818 143,876 – – 143,876 106,431 – – 106,431 Total interest rate contracts 2,724,636 41,138 43,942 2,809,716 2,611,926 35,802 49,006 2,696,734 Foreign Exchange Contracts Over-the-counter Cross-currency swaps 44,607 227 – 44,834 30,245 240 – 30,485 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 255,337 – – 255,337 238,675 – – 238,675 Forward foreign exchange contracts 249,412 14,195 – 263,607 209,947 7,398 – 217,345 Purchased options 10,923 – – 10,923 8,682 – – 8,682 Written options 13,530 – – 13,530 10,588 – – 10,588 573,809 14,422 – 588,231 498,137 7,638 – 505,775 Exchange-traded Futures 621 – – 621 767 – – 767 Purchased options 2,608 – – 2,608 3,505 – – 3,505 Written options 616 – – 616 1,404 – – 1,404 3,845 – – 3,845 5,676 – – 5,676 Total foreign exchange contracts 577,654 14,422 – 592,076 503,813 7,638 – 511,451 Commodity Contracts Over-the-counter Swaps 15,122 – – 15,122 15,034 – – 15,034 Purchased options 8,081 – – 8,081 9,002 – – 9,002 Written options 4,285 – – 4,285 5,164 – – 5,164 27,488 – – 27,488 29,200 – – 29,200 Exchange-traded Futures 24,037 – – 24,037 21,743 – – 21,743 Purchased options 8,044 – – 8,044 9,315 – – 9,315 Written options 9,894 – – 9,894 10,762 – – 10,762 41,975 – – 41,975 41,820 – – 41,820 Total commodity contracts 69,463 – – 69,463 71,020 – – 71,020 Equity Contracts Over-the-counter 39,360 – – 39,360 30,000 – – 30,000 Exchange-traded 5,851 – – 5,851 9,930 – – 9,930 Total equity contracts 45,211 – – 45,211 39,930 – – 39,930 Credit Default Swaps Over-the-counter purchased 8,835 – – 8,835 11,682 – – 11,682 Over-the-counter written 13,288 – – 13,288 24,126 – – 24,126 Total credit default swaps 22,123 – – 22,123 35,808 – – 35,808 Total 3,439,087 55,560 43,942 3,538,589 3,262,497 43,440 49,006 3,354,943 Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. 152 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Derivative-Related Market Risk Derivative instruments are subject to market risk. Market risk arises from the potential for a negative impact on the balance sheet and/or income statement resulting from adverse changes in the value of derivative instruments as a result of changes in certain market variables. These variables include interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices and their implied volatilities, as well as credit spreads, credit migration and default. We strive to limit market risk by employing comprehensive governance and management processes for all market risk-taking activities. Derivative-Related Credit Risk Over-the-counter derivative instruments are subject to credit risk arising from the possibility that counterparties may default on their obligations. The credit risk associated with derivatives is normally a small fraction of the notional amount of the derivative instrument. Derivative contracts generally expose us to potential credit loss if changes in market rates affect a counterparty’s position unfavourably and the counterparty defaults on payment. The credit risk is represented by the positive fair value of the derivative instrument. We strive to limit credit risk by dealing with counterparties that we believe are creditworthy, and we manage our credit risk for derivatives using the same credit risk process that is applied to loans and other credit assets. We also pursue opportunities to reduce our exposure to credit losses on derivative instruments, including entering into master netting agreements with counterparties. The credit risk associated with favourable contracts is eliminated by master netting agreements to the extent that unfavourable contracts with the same counterparty cannot be settled before favourable contracts. Exchange-traded derivatives have no potential for credit exposure as they are settled net with each exchange. Terms used in the credit risk table are as follows: Replacement cost represents the cost of replacing all contracts that have a positive fair value, using current market rates. It represents in effect the unrealized gains on our derivative instruments. Replacement costs disclosed below represent the net of the asset and liability to a specific counterparty where we have a legally enforceable right to offset the amount owed to us with the amount owed by us and we intend either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Credit risk equivalent represents the total replacement cost plus an amount representing the potential future credit exposure, as outlined in OSFI’s Capital Adequacy Guideline. Risk-weighted assets
 represent the
 credit risk equivalent, weighted
 based on
 the
 creditworthiness of the counterparty,
 as prescribed by OSFI. (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Risk-Risk-Replacement Credit risk weighted Replacement Credit risk weighted cost equivalent assets cost equivalent assets Interest Rate Contracts Swaps 21,621 26,813 – 36,911 41,412 – Forward rate agreements 5 40
 – 98 68 – Purchased options 589 657 – 1,174 1,270 – Total interest rate contracts 22,215 27,510 1,758 38,183 42,750 2,355 Foreign Exchange Contracts Cross-currency swaps 1,156 4,091 – 1,159 2,690 – Cross-currency interest rate swaps 3,459 15,671 – 4,408 15,317 – Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,957 3,854 – 2,338 4,423 – Purchased options 90 227 – 105 190 – Total foreign exchange contracts 6,662 23,843 2,448 8,010 22,620 1,836 Commodity Contracts Swaps 501 2,289 – 804 2,380 – Purchased options 66 1,045 – 100 1,248 – Total commodity contracts 567 3,334 621 904 3,628 667 Equity Contracts 520 3,054 113 347 2,416 102 Credit Default Swaps 90 448 310 237 746 588 Total derivatives 30,054 58,189 5,250 47,681 72,160 5,548 Less: impact of master netting agreements (27,493) (38,607) – (35,087) (51,297) – Total 2,561 19,582 5,250 12,594 20,863 5,548 The total derivatives and impact of master netting agreements for replacement cost do not include exchange-traded derivatives with a fair value of $205
 million as at October 31, 2013 ($390 million in 2012). Transactions are conducted with counterparties in various geographic locations and industry sectors. Set out below is the replacement cost of contracts before and after the impact of master netting agreements with customers located in the following countries, based on country of ultimate risk. (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) Before master netting agreements After master netting agreements 2013 2012 2013 2012 Canada 12,425 41 18,283 38 1,389 54 7,309 58 United States 7,193 24 12,654 27 728 28 3,279 26 United Kingdom 4,761 16 8,210 17 148 6 636 5 Other countries (1) 5,675 19 8,534 18 296 12 1,370 11 Total 30,054 100% 47,681 100% 2,561 100% 12,594 100% (1) No other country represented 10% or more of our replacement cost in 2013 or 2012. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 153 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Transactions are conducted with various counterparties. Set out below is the replacement cost of contracts (before the impact of master netting agreements) with customers in the following industries: As at October 31, 2013 (Canadian $ in millions) Interest rate contracts Foreign exchange contracts Commodity contracts Equity contracts Credit default swaps Total Notes Financial institutions 18,212 4,045 201 293 58 22,809 Governments 2,094 1,633 20 – – 3,747 Natural resources 44 38 84– –166
 Energy 126 85 85 – –296
 Other 1,739 861 177 227 32 3,036 Total 22,215 6,662 567 520 90 30,054 As at October 31, 2012 (Canadian $ in millions) Interest rate contracts Foreign exchange contracts Commodity contracts Equity contracts Credit default
 swaps Total Financial institutions 32,454 4,797 315 145 106 37,817 Governments 3,263 2,343 21 – – 5,627 Natural resources 57 44 178 – – 279 Energy 96 7 96 – – 199 Other 2,313 819 294 202 131 3,759 Total 38,183 8,010 904 347 237 47,681 Credit Derivatives Credit derivatives – protection sold by ratings/maturity profile: Maximum payout/Notional Fair value As at October 31, 2013 (Canadian $ in millions) Within 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Liability Credit default swaps Investment grade (1) 2,714 9,751 – 12,465 80 Non-investment grade (1) 267 163 – 430 16 Non-rated 7 241 145 393 6 Total (2) 2,988 10,155 145 13,288 102 Maximum payout/Notional
 Fair value As at October 31, 2012 (Canadian $ in millions) Within 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Liability Credit default swaps Investment grade (1) 10,463 12,414 63 22,940 128 Non-investment grade (1) 344 384 223 951 27 Non-rated 9 166 60 235 1 Total (2) 10,816 12,964 346 24,126 156 (1) Credit ratings of AAA, AA, A and BBB represent investment grade ratings and ratings of BB or(2) As at October 31, 2013, the notional value and net carrying value of credit protection sold in lower represent non-investment grade ratings. These credit ratings largely reflect those which we held purchased protection with identical underlying assets was $4.3 billion and assigned by external rating agencies and represent the payment or performance risk of the $41 million ($0.6 billion and $18 million in 2012). underlying security or referenced asset. Term to Maturity Our derivative contracts have varying maturity dates. The remaining contractual term to maturity for the notional amounts of our derivative contracts
 is set out below: (Canadian $ in millions)Term to maturity 2013 2012 Total Total Within 1 1to3
 3to5
 5to10
 Over 10 notional notional year years years years years amounts amounts Interest Rate Contracts Swaps 720,271 594,450 572,820 277,659 59,586 2,224,786 1,965,176 Forward rate agreements, futures and options 512,479 63,823 4,687 3,687 254 584,930 731,558 Total interest rate contracts 1,232,750 658,273 577,507 281,346 59,840 2,809,716 2,696,734 Foreign Exchange Contracts Cross-currency swaps 1,463 24,149 7,645 7,463 4,114 44,834 30,485 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 49,748 90,106 58,095 44,827 12,561 255,337 238,675 Forward foreign exchange contracts, futures and options 283,607 7,008 1,205 72 13 291,905 242,291 Total foreign exchange contracts 334,818 121,263 66,945 52,362 16,688 592,076 511,451 Commodity Contracts Swaps 9,492 4,807 496 327 – 15,122 15,034 Futures and options 35,418 15,880 2,842 201 – 54,341 55,986 Total commodity contracts 44,910 20,687 3,338 528 – 69,463 71,020 Equity Contracts 23,240 9,958 11,096 10 907 45,211 39,930 Credit Contracts 5,127 13,528 2,675 793 – 22,123 35,808 Total notional amount 1,640,845 823,709 661,561 335,039 77,435 3,538,589 3,354,943 Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. 154 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Note 11: Premises and Equipment
 We record all premises and equipment at cost less accumulated amortization, except land, which is recorded at cost. Buildings, computer equipment and operating system software, other equipment and leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The maximum estimated useful lives we use to amortize our assets are as follows: Buildings 10 to 40 years Computer equipment and operating system software 15 years Other equipment 10 years Leasehold improvements Lease term to a maximum of 10 years Gains and losses on disposal are included in other non-interest expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Amortization methods, useful lives and the residual values of premises and equipment are reviewed annually for any change in circumstances and are adjusted if appropriate. At least annually, we review whether there are any indications that premises and equipment need to be tested for impairment. If there is an indication that an asset may be impaired, we test for impairment by comparing the asset’s carrying value to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset. An impairment charge is recorded when the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value. (Canadian $ in millions) When major components of buildings have different useful lives, they are accounted for separately and amortized over each component’s useful life. Amortization expense for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 amounted to $360 million, $364 million and $307 million, respectively. There were no significant write-downs of premises and equipment due to impairment during the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012. Lease Commitments We have entered into
 a number of non-cancellable leases
 for premises and equipment.
 Our
 computer and software
 leases
 are
 typically fixed for one term
 and
 our premises
 leases
 have various renewal
 options
 and rights. Our total
 contractual rental commitments
 as at October 31, 2013 were $1,798 million. The commitments
 for each
 of
 the
 next five years and thereafter are
 $278 million for
 2014, $262 million for
 2015, $234 million for
 2016, $210 million for
 2017, $174 million for
 2018 and $640 million thereafter.
 Included in these amounts
 are the commitments related to
 794 leased branch locations as
 at
 October
 31, 2013. Net rent expense for premises and equipment reported in our Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $434 million, $418 million and $380 million, respectively. 2013 2012 Computer Other Leasehold Computer Other Leasehold Land Buildings Equipment Equipment Improvements Total Land Buildings Equipment Equipment Improvements Total Cost:Balance at beginning of year 291 1,554 1,467 764 961 5,037 304 1,539 1,459 893 993 5,188Additions 8 118 237 50 80 493 4 81 257 86 117 545Disposals (1) (4) (34) (82) (63) (7) (190) (16) (69) (228) (228) (148) (689)Additions from acquisitions (2) ––––
 ––
 –––1
 –1
Foreign exchange and other 2 43 6 19 1181
 (1) 3 (21) 12 (1) (8)Balance at end of year 297 1,681 1,628 770 1,045 5,421 291 1,554 1,467 764 961 5,037 Accumulated Depreciation and impairment: Balance at beginning of year – 815 1,074 470 558 2,917 – 768 1,099 634 626 3,127 Disposals (1) – (5) (57) (23) (4) (89) – (19) (187) (221) (146) (573) Amortization – 33 147 58 122 360 – 65 164 57 78 364 Foreign exchange and other – 57 16 2 (33) 42 – 1 (2) – –(1)
 Balance at end of year – 900 1,180 507 643 3,230 – 815 1,074 470 558 2,917 Net carrying value 297 781 448 263 402 2,191 291 739 393 294 403 2,120 (1) Includes fully depreciated assets written off. (2) Premises and equipment are recorded at the fair value on the date of acquisition. Note 12: Acquisitions The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration transferred, including contingent consideration. Acquisition-related costs are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and contingent consideration are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred over the net of the amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on the date of acquisition. Aver Media LP (“Aver”) On April 1, 2013, we completed the acquisition of the assets of Aver Media LP, a private Canadian-based film and TV media lending company, for cash consideration of $260 million, subject to a post-closing adjustment based on net assets, plus contingent consideration of approximately $10 million to be paid over eighteen months after the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs of $1 million were expensed in non-interest expense, other in our Consolidated Statement of Income. This acquisition is predominantly of the Aver loan portfolio and provides us with additional opportunities to grow our commercial loan business by expanding our presence in the film and television production industry. Goodwill related to this acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. As part of this acquisition, we acquired a customer relationship intangible asset which is being amortized on an accelerated basis over 10 years. Aver is part of our Canadian Personal and Commercial Banking reporting segment. The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 155 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Asian Wealth Management Business (“AWMB”) On January 25, 2013, we completed the acquisition of an Asian-based wealth management business for cash consideration of $33 million. During the year ended October 31, 2013, the purchase price increased to $34 million due to a post-closing adjustment based upon working capital. Acquisition costs of $4 million were expensed in non-interest expense, other in our Consolidated Statement of Income. The business provides private banking services to high net worth individuals in the Asia-Pacific region and provides an important opportunity for us to expand our offering to high net worth individuals in this region. Goodwill related to this acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. As part of this acquisition, we acquired a customer relationship intangible asset which is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 years, and software intangible assets which are being amortized over their remaining useful lives. AWMB is part of our Wealth Management reporting segment. CTC Consulting, LLC (“CTC”) On June 11, 2012, we completed the acquisition of United States-based CTC Consulting, LLC for cash consideration of $20 million. During the year ended October 31, 2012, we increased the purchase price by $1 million to $21 million based on a revaluation of equity. Acquisition-related costs of less than $1 million were expensed in non-interest expense, other in our Consolidated Statement of Income. The acquisition of CTC helped us to expand and enhance our manager research and advisory capabilities and investment offering to ultra-high net worth clients and select multi<family offices and wealth advisors. This will allow us to further strengthen and expand our presence in the United States. As part of this acquisition, we acquired a customer relationship intangible asset which is being amortized on an accelerated basis over 15 years. Goodwill related to this acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes. CTC is part of our Wealth Management reporting segment. The estimated fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition are as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Aver AWMB CTC Cash resources – 434 2 Loans 232 310 – Premises and equipment – 1 1 Goodwill 20 17 7 Intangible assets 16 17 11 Other assets 3 2 2 Total assets 271 781 23 Deposits – 746 – Other liabilities 1 1 2 Total liabilities 1 747 2 Purchase price 270 34 21 The allocation of the purchase price for Aver and AWMB is subject to refinement as we complete the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
 COFCO Trust Co. (“COFCO”) at cost and adjust our investment for our proportionate share of any net On August 1, 2012, we acquired a 19.99% interest in COFCO Trust Co., a income or loss, other comprehensive income or loss and dividends. The subsidiary of COFCO Group, one of China’s largest state-owned investment provides an important opportunity for us to expand our enterprises with operations across a variety of sectors, including offering to high net worth and institutional clients in China. COFCO is part agriculture and financial services. We recorded our investment in COFCO of our Wealth Management reporting segment. Note 13: Goodwill and Intangible
 Assets
Goodwill When we complete an acquisition, we allocate the purchase price paid to the assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets and the liabilities assumed. Any excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of those net assets is considered to be goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized. Fair value less costs to sell was the measurement we used to perform the impairment test for goodwill in 2013 and 2012. We determined the fair value less costs to sell for each cash generating unit (“CGU”) by discounting cash flow projections. Cash flows were projected for the first 10 years based on actual operating results, expected future business performance and past experience. Beyond the first 10 years, cash flows were assumed to grow at perpetual annual rates of up to 3%, a rate that is consistent with long-term nominal GDP growth. The discount rates we applied in determining the recoverable amounts range from 7.8% to 18.1% (8.3% to 15.5% in 2012), and are based on our estimate of the cost of capital for each CGU. The cost of capital for each CGU was estimated using the Capital Asset Pricing Model, based on the historical betas of publicly traded peer companies that are comparable to the CGU. There were no write-downs of goodwill due to impairment during the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012. The key assumptions described above may change as market and economic conditions change. However, we estimate that reasonably possible changes in these assumptions are not expected to cause recoverable amounts to decline below carrying amounts. Notes 156 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 A continuity of our goodwill by CGU for the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012 is as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) Personal and Commercial Banking Wealth Management BMO Capital Markets Corporate Services Total Canadian P&C U.S. P&C Total Client Investing Global Asset* Management Private Banking Insurance Total Technology and Operations Goodwill as at October 31, 2011 122 2,545 2,667 68 377 344 2 791 191 – 3,649 Acquisitions during the year – – – – – 7 – 7 – – 7 Other (1) – 48
 48
 – 4 6 – 10
 3 – 61
 Goodwill as at October 31, 2012 122 2,593 2,715 68 381 357 2 808 194 – 3,717 Acquisitions during the year 20 – 20 – – 17 – 17 – – 37 Other (1) – 110 110 – 7 17 – 24 5 – 139 Goodwill as at October 31, 2013 142 (2) 2,703 (3) 2,845 68 (4) 388 (5) 391 (6) 2 (7) 849 199 (8) – 3,893 (1) Other changes in goodwill included the effects of translating goodwill denominated in(4) Relates to BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc. foreign currencies into Canadian dollars and purchase accounting adjustments related to (5) Relates to Guardian Group of Funds Ltd., Pyrford International plc, Integra GRS, LGM and M&I. prior-year purchases. (6) Relates primarily to Harris myCFO Inc., Stoker Ostler Wealth Advisors, Inc., M&I, CTC (2) Relates primarily to Moneris Solutions Corporation, bcpbank Canada and Diners Club andConsulting, LLC and AWMB. Aver Media LP. (7) Relates to AIG. (3) Relates primarily to New Lenox State Bank, First National Bank of Joliet, Household Bank(8) Relates to Gerard Klauer Mattison & Co., Inc., BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc., Griffin, Kubik, branches, Mercantile Bancorp, Inc., Villa Park Trust Savings Bank, First National Bank & Trust, Stephens & Thompson, Inc., Paloma Securities L.L.C. and M&I. Ozaukee Bank, Merchants and Manufacturers Bancorporation, Inc., AMCORE and M&I. * Formerly
 Investment Products. Intangible Assets Intangible assets related to our acquisitions are recorded at their fair value at the acquisition date. Software is recorded at cost less accumulated amortization. The following table presents the change in the balance of the intangible assets: Branch Purchased Developed Software Customer Core distribution software – software – under (Canadian $ in millions) relationships deposits networks amortizing amortizing development Other Total Intangible assets cost as at October 31, 2011 397 721 148 549 1,181 119 26 3,141 Additions/disposals/other (2) – 2 (11) 316 37 2 344 Acquisitions 11 – – – – – – 11 Foreign exchange 1 2 – – (3) – 1 1 Intangible assets cost as at October 31, 2012 407 723 150 538 1,494 156 29 3,497 Additions/disposals/other 10 – (3) 2104
 85–
 198 Acquisitions 23–
 –––
 ––23
 Foreign exchange 1531
 7 417
 2–
 76 Intangible assets cost as at October 31, 2013 455 754 154 544 1,615 243 29 3,794 The following table presents the accumulated amortization of the intangible assets: Branch Purchased Developed Software Customer Core distribution software – software – under (Canadian $ in millions) relationships deposits networks amortizing amortizing development Other Total Accumulated amortization at October 31, 2011 98 207 147 480 621 – 26 1,579 Disposals/other (2) – – (29) 57 – 2 28 Amortization 35 98 1 32 173 – – 339 Foreign exchange – – – 1 (2) – – (1) Accumulated amortization at October 31, 2012 131 305 148 484 849 – 28 1,945 Disposals/other 1 – (5) (27) (40) – (2) (73) Amortization 44 76 3 29 198 – 2 352 Foreign exchange 4 16
 6 3 11
 – – 40
 Accumulated amortization at October 31, 2013 180 397 152 489 1,018 – 28 2,264 Carrying value at October 31, 2013 275 357 2 55 597 243 1 1,530 Carrying value at October 31, 2012 276 418 2 54 645 156 1 1,552 Intangible assets are amortized to income over the period during which we believe the assets will benefit us on either a straight-line or an accelerated basis, over a period not to exceed 15 years. We have no intangible assets with indefinite lives. The useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually for any changes in circumstances. We test intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. If any intangible assets are determined to be impaired, we write them down to their recoverable amount, the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell, when this is less than the carrying value. There were no write-downs of intangible assets due to impairment during the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 157 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Note 14: Other Assets
(Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other items 6,626 7,813 Accrued interest receivable 753 861 Due from clients, dealers and brokers 503 526 Insurance-related assets (1) 566 630 Pension asset (Note 23) 523 508 Total 8,971 10,338 (1) Includes reinsurance assets related to our life insurance business in the amount of $383 million as at October 31, 2013 ($472 million in 2012). Note 15: Deposits (Canadian $ in millions) Payable on demand Interest bearing Non-interest bearing Payable after notice Payable on a fixed date Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Deposits by: Banks Businesses and governments Individuals 679 13,947 2,579 2,116 12,205 2,545 928 23,479 11,448 611 21,431 
10,388 4,076 54,178 
69,853 2,653 49,208 
63,770 14,908 129,194 41,552 12,722 103,726 42,327 20,591 220,798 
125,432 18,102 186,570 
119,030 Total (1) (2) 17,205 16,866 35,855 32,430 128,107 115,631 185,654 158,775 366,821 323,702 Booked in: Canada United States Other countries 15,440 1,153 612 16,011 25,545 596 10,211 259 99 24,280 8,007 143 76,414 51,262 431 65,810 48,968 853 108,082 59,800 17,772 97,243 49,614 11,918 225,481 122,426 18,914 203,344 107,185 13,173 Total 17,205 16,866 35,855 32,430 128,107 115,631 185,654 158,775 366,821 323,702 (1) Includes structured notes designated at fair value through profit or loss. (2) As at October 31, 2013 and 2012, total deposits payable on a fixed date included $19,496 million and $17,613 million, respectively, of federal funds purchased, commercial paper issued and other deposit liabilities. Included in deposits as at October 31, 2013 and 2012 are Deposits Deposits payable on
 demand
 are
 comprised primarily
 of our customers’
 chequing accounts, some of which we
 pay
 interest on. Our
 customers need not notify us
 prior
 to withdrawing money
 from their chequing
 accounts.
 Deposits payable after notice are comprised primarily of our customers’ savings accounts, on which we pay interest. Deposits payable on a fixed date are comprised of: ‰ Various investment instruments purchased by our customers to earn interest over a fixed period, such as term deposits and guaranteed investment certificates. The terms of these deposits can vary from one day to 10 years. ‰ Federal funds purchased, which are overnight borrowings of other banks’ excess reserve funds at a United States Federal Reserve Bank. As at October 31, 2013, we had borrowed $181 million of federal funds ($1,674 million in 2012). ‰ Commercial paper, which totalled $4,753 million as at October 31, 2013 ($4,513 million in 2012). ‰ Covered bonds, which totalled $7,964 million as at October 31, 2013 ($9,053 million in 2012). During the year ended October 31, 2013, the €1,000,000 4.25% Covered Bond-Series 1 deposit matured. $176,236 million and $146,003 million, respectively, of deposits denominated in U.S. dollars, and $4,822 million and $4,777 million, respectively, of deposits denominated in other foreign currencies. Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation.
 During the year ended October 31, 2012, we issued US$2.0 billion Covered Bond-Series 5. This deposit pays interest of 1.95% and matures on January 30, 2017. The following table presents the maturity schedule for our deposits payable on a fixed date: Payable on a Fixed
 Date (2)(Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012Within 1 year 113,924 112,062 1 to 2 years 21,198
 12,110 2 to 3 years 20,127 15,113 3 to 4 years 10,989
 6,978 4 to 5 years 10,931
 8,899 Over 5 years (1) 8,485
 3,613 Total 185,654 158,775 (1) The over 5 years category includes deposits with no fixed maturity date. (2) Includes $161,942 million of deposits, each greater than one hundred thousand dollars, of which $89,379 million were booked in Canada, $54,791 million were booked in the United States and $17,772 million were booked in other countries ($134,146 million, $79,223 million, $43,005 million and $11,918 million, respectively, in 2012). Of the $89,379 million of deposits booked in Canada, $31,304 million mature in less than three months, $4,079 million mature in three to six months, $6,861 million mature in six to 12 months and $47,134 million mature after 12 months ($79,223 million, $35,023 million, $5,250 million, $7,979 million and $30,971 million, respectively, in 2012). We have unencumbered liquid assets of $152,358 million to support these and other deposit liabilities ($154,606 million in 2012). A portion of these liquid assets have been pledged. Notes 158 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 The following table presents the average deposit balances and average rates of interest paid during 2013 and 2012: Average balances Average rate paid (%) (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 2013 2012 Deposits Booked in Canada Demand deposits – interest bearing 16,050 15,292 0.47 0.44 Demand deposits – non-interest bearing 24,365 23,343 – – Payable after notice 71,820 60,116 0.68 0.61 Payable on a fixed date 98,631 92,314 1.56 1.65 Total deposits booked in Canada 210,866 191,065 1.00 1.02 Deposits Booked in the United States and Other Countries Banks located in the United States and other countries 9,308 9,213 0.71 0.58 Governments and institutions in the United States and other countries 9,283 8,381 0.42 0.35 Other demand deposits 9,305 7,546 0.03 0.02 Other deposits payable after notice or on a fixed date 117,446 105,212 0.36 0.51 Total deposits booked in the United States and other countries 145,342 130,352 0.37 0.48 Total average deposits 356,208 321,417 0.74 0.80 As at October 31, 2013 and 2012, deposits by foreign depositors in our Canadian bank offices amounted to $26,561 million and $24,639 million, respectively.
 A portion of our structured note liabilities have been designated at fair The change in fair value related to changes in our credit spread that value through profit or loss and are accounted for at fair value, which has been recognized since the notes were designated at fair value better aligns the accounting result with the way the portfolio is through profit or loss to October 31, 2013 was an unrealized loss of managed. The change in fair value of these structured notes was approximately $52 million. We may enter into positions to manage the recorded as an increase in non-interest revenue, trading revenues of $5 exposure to changes in our credit spread. million for the year ended October 31, 2013 (increase of $19 million in The fair value and amount due at contractual maturity of these 2012). This includes a decrease of $53 million attributable to changes in notes as at October 31, 2013 were $5,928 million and $6,028 million, our credit spread (decrease of $20 million in 2012). We hold derivatives respectively ($4,301 million and $4,284 million, respectively, in 2012). and other financial instrument contracts to partially hedge changes in the fair value of these structured notes. Note 16: Other Liabilities
 (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Acceptances 8,472 8,019 Securities sold but not yet purchased 22,446 23,439 Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements 28,884 39,737 59,802 71,195 Acceptances Acceptances represent a form of negotiable short-term debt that is issued by our customers and which we guarantee for a fee. We have an offsetting claim, equal to the amount of the acceptances, against our customers. The amount due under acceptances is recorded as a liability and our corresponding claim is recorded as a loan in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Securities Lending and Borrowing Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally collateralized by securities or cash. Cash advanced or received as collateral is recorded in other assets or other liabilities, respectively. The transfer of the securities to counterparties is only reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheet if the risks and rewards of ownership have also been transferred. Securities borrowed are not recognized in our Consolidated Balance Sheet unless they are then sold to third parties, in which case the obligation to return the securities is recorded in Securities sold but not yet purchased. Securities Sold but not yet Purchased Securities sold but not yet purchased represent our obligations to deliver securities that we did not own at the time of sale. These obligations are recorded at their market value. Adjustments to the market value as at the balance sheet date and gains and losses on the settlement of these obligations are recorded in trading revenues in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Securities Lent or Sold Under Repurchase Agreements Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements represent short-term funding transactions in which we sell securities that we own and simultaneously commit to repurchase the same securities at a specified price on a specified date in the future. The obligation to repurchase these securities is recorded at the amount owing. The interest expense related to these liabilities is recorded on the accrual basis. Other Liabilities The components of the other liabilities balance as at October 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Securitization and SPE liabilities 22,362 25,481 Accounts payable, accrued expenses and other items 7,915 8,924 Accrued interest payable 857 977 Liabilities of subsidiaries, other than deposits 3,857 4,116 Insurance-related liabilities 6,115 6,040 Pension liability (Note 23) 52 43 Other employee future benefits liability (Note 23) 1,054 1,015 Total 42,212 46,596 Certain comparative
 figures have
 been
 reclassified to conform with
 the
 current year’s presentation. Liabilities related to the notes issued by our credit protection vehicle and our structured investment vehicles have been designated at fair value through profit or loss and are accounted for at fair value. This eliminates a measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring these note liabilities and offsetting changes in the fair value of the related investments and derivatives on a different basis. The fair value of these note liabilities as at October 31, 2013 of $511 million ($946 million in 2012) is recorded in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The change in fair value of these note liabilities resulted BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 159 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 in a decrease of $24 million in non-interest revenue, trading revenues for the year ended October 31, 2013 (decrease of $228 million in 2012). We designate the obligations related to certain annuity contracts at fair value through profit or loss, which eliminates a measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring the annuity liabilities and offsetting changes in the fair value of the investments supporting them on a different basis. The fair value of these annuity liabilities as at October 31, 2013 of $329 million ($317 million in 2012) is recorded in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The change in fair value of these annuity liabilities resulted in an increase of $7 million in non-interest revenue, insurance income for the year ended October 31, 2013 (decrease of $23 million in 2012). Changes in the fair value of investments backing these annuity liabilities are also recorded in non-interest revenue, insurance income. Insurance-Related Liabilities We are engaged in insurance businesses related to life and health insurance, annuities and reinsurance. Insurance claims and policy benefit liabilities represent current claims and estimates of future insurance policy benefits. Liabilities for life insurance contracts are determined using the Canadian Asset Liability Method, which incorporates best-estimate assumptions for mortality, morbidity, policy lapses, surrenders, investment yields, policy dividends, administration costs and margins for adverse deviation. These assumptions are reviewed at least annually and updated to reflect actual experience and market conditions. Insurance claims and policy benefit liabilities are included in Other liabilities – Insurance-related liabilities. The effect of changes in actuarial assumptions on policy benefit liabilities was not material during the years ended October 31, 2013 or 2012. A reconciliation of the change in the Insurance-related liabilities is as follows: (Canadian $ in millions)2013 2012 Insurance-related liabilities, beginning of year 6,040 5,380 Increase (decrease) in life insurance policy benefit liabilities from: New business 324 245 In-force policies (55) 260 Changes in actuarial assumptions (201) 92 Foreign currency 1 (1) Net increase in life insurance policy benefit liabilities 69 596 Change in other insurance-related liabilities 6 64 Insurance-related liabilities, end of year 6,115 6,040 Reinsurance In the ordinary course of business, our insurance subsidiaries reinsure risks to other insurance and reinsurance companies in order to provide greater diversification, limit loss exposure to large risks and provide additional capacity for future growth. These ceding reinsurance arrangements do not relieve our insurance subsidiaries from their direct obligation to the insureds. We evaluate the financial condition of the reinsurers and monitor their credit ratings to minimize our exposure to losses from reinsurer insolvency. Reinsurance assets related to our life insurance business are included in other assets, insurance-related assets. Reinsurance amounts included in non-interest revenue, insurance income in our Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 are shown in the table below. (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 2011 Direct premium income 1,567 1,357 1,348 Ceded premiums (434) (410) (392) 1,133 947 956 Note 17: Subordinated Debt Subordinated debt represents our direct unsecured obligations, in the into fair value hedges to hedge the risks caused by changes in interest form of notes and debentures, to our debt holders and forms part of our rates (see Note 10). Basel III regulatory capital. Subordinated debt is recorded at amortized During the year ended October 31, 2013, we did not issue or cost using the effective interest rate method. The rights of the holders of redeem any of our subordinated debt. During the year ended our notes and debentures are subordinate to the claims of depositors October 31, 2012, we redeemed all of our Series D Medium-Term Notes, and certain other creditors. We require approval from the Office of the Tranche 2 at a redemption amount equal to $1,000, representing an Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada (“OSFI”) before we can aggregate redemption price of $1.2 billion, plus unpaid accrued interest redeem any part of our subordinated debt. Where appropriate, we enter up to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption. The term to maturity and repayments of our subordinated debt required over the next four years and thereafter are as follows: Redeemable at our 2013 2012 (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) Face value Maturity date Interest rate (%) option beginning in Total (7) Total Notes Debentures Series 16 100 February 2017 10.00 February 2012 (1) 100 100 Debentures Series 20 150 December 2025 to 2040 8.25 Not redeemable 150 150 Series C Medium-Term Notes Tranche 2 500 April 2020 4.87 April 2015 (2) 500 500 Series D Medium-Term Notes Tranche 1 700 April 2021 5.10 April 2016 (3) 700 700 Series F Medium-Term Notes Tranche 1 900 March 2023 6.17 March 2018 (4) 900 900 Series G Medium-Term Notes Tranche 11,500 July 2021 3.98 July 2016 (5) 1,500 1,500 Total (6)3,850 3,850 (1) Redeemable at the greater of par and the Canada Yield Price after their redemption date ofand at a floating rate equal to the three-month Canadian Dealer Offered Rate (“CDOR”) plus February 20, 2012 until their maturity date of February 20, 2017. 1.09%, paid quarterly, thereafter to maturity. This issue is redeemable at par commencing (2) Redeemable at the greater of par and the Canada Yield Price prior to April 22, 2015, andJuly 8, 2016. redeemable at par commencing April 22, 2015. (6) Certain subordinated debt amounts include fair value hedge adjustments that increased their (3) Redeemable at the greater of par and the Canada Yield Price prior to April 21, 2016, andcarrying value as at October 31, 2013 by $146 million ($243 million in 2012);
 see Note 10 redeemable at par commencing April 21, 2016. for further details. (4) Redeemable at the greater of par and the Canada Yield Price prior to March 28, 2018, and(7) All of our subordinated debt has a term to maturity of four years or more.redeemable at par commencing March 28, 2018.Please refer to the offering circular related to each of the above issues for further details on (5) Interest on this issue is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 3.979% until July 8, 2016, Canada Yield Price calculations and the definition of CDOR.
 160 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Note 18: Capital Trust Securities
 We issue BMO Capital Trust Securities (“BMO BOaTS”) and BMO Tier 1 depending on the terms of the BMO BOaTS. The BMO T1Ns – Series A are Notes – Series A (“BMO T1Ns – Series A”) through our consolidated reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as capital trust securities. subsidiaries BMO Capital Trust and BMO Capital Trust II, respectively Holders of the BMO BOaTS and BMO T1Ns – Series A are entitled to (the “Trusts”). The proceeds of BMO BOaTS and BMO T1Ns – Series A are receive semi-annual non-cumulative fixed cash distributions as long as used for general corporate purposes. We consolidate the Trusts, and the we declare dividends on our preferred shares or, if no shares are BMO BOaTS are reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheet either as outstanding, on our common shares in accordance with our ordinary non-controlling interest in subsidiaries or as capital trust securities, dividend practice. Distribution Redemption date Principal amount per BOaTS (1) / (Canadian $ in millions, except Distribution) Distribution dates BMO T1Ns At the option of the Trust 2013 2012 Capital Trust Securities BMO T1Ns – Series A (2) June 30, December 31 51.11 (3) December 31, 2013 450 450 450 450 Non-Controlling Interest BMO BOaTS Series D Series E June 30, December 31 June 30, December 31 27.37 (4) 23.17 (5) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2010 600 450 600 
450 1,050 1,050 Total Capital Trust Securities 1,500 1,500 (1) Distribution paid on each trust security that has a par value of $1,000. (3) Starting on December 31, 2018 and on every fifth anniversary of such date thereafter until (2) The carrying value includes issuance costs and accrued interest of $13 million as at December 31, 2103, the interest rate on the BMO T1Ns – Series A will be reset to an interest October 31, 2013 ($12 million in 2012).
 rate per annum equal to the Government of Canada Yield plus 10.50%. (4) After December 31, 2014, the distribution will be at the Bankers’ Acceptance Rate plus 1.5%. (5) After December 31, 2015, the distribution will be at the Bankers’ Acceptance Rate plus 1.5%. Redemption by the Trust Conversion by the Holders On or after the redemption dates indicated above, and subject to the BMO BOaTS Series D and E and BMO T1Ns – Series A cannot be converted prior approval of OSFI, the Trusts may redeem the securities in whole at the option of the holder. without the consent of the holders. During the year ended October 31, 2012, we redeemed all of our BMO Capital Trust Securities – Series C (“BMO BOaTS – Series C”) at a redemption amount equal to $1,000, for an aggregate redemption of $400 million, plus unpaid distributions which had been declared. Automatic Exchange The BMO BOaTS Series D and E and BMO T1Ns – Series A will each be automatically exchanged for 40 Class B non-cumulative preferred shares of the bank, Series 11, 12 and 20, respectively, without the consent of the holders on the occurrence of specific events, such as a wind-up of the bank, a regulatory requirement to increase capital or violations of regulatory capital requirements. Note 19: Interest Rate Risk We earn interest on interest bearing assets and we pay interest on Trading and underwriting (mark-to-market) assets and interest interest bearing liabilities. We also have derivative instruments, such as bearing assets on which the customer interest rate changes with the interest rate swaps and interest rate options, whose values are sensitive prime rate or other short-term market rates are reported in the zero to to changes in interest rates. To the extent that we have assets, liabilities three months category. and derivative instruments maturing or repricing at different points in Goodwill and intangible and fixed assets are reported as non-time, we are exposed to interest rate risk. interest sensitive. Other fixed rate and non-interest bearing assets with Interest Rate Gap Position The determination of the interest rate sensitivity or gap position by no defined maturity are reported based upon an assumed maturity profile that considers historical and forecasted trends in balances. necessity encompasses numerous assumptions. It is based on the earlier Liabilities of the repricing date or maturity date of assets, liabilities and derivatives Fixed rate, fixed term liabilities, such as investment certificates, are used to manage interest rate risk. reported at scheduled maturity with estimated redemptions that reflect The gap position presented is as at October 31, 2013 and 2012. expected depositor behaviour. It represents the position outstanding at the close of the business Interest bearing deposits on which the customer interest rate day and may change significantly in subsequent periods based on changes with the prime rate or other short-term market rates are customer behaviour and the application of our asset and liability reported in the zero to three months category. management strategies. Fixed rate and non-interest bearing liabilities with no defined The assumptions for the year ended October 31, 2013 were as follows: maturity are reported based upon an assumed maturity profile that considers historical and forecasted trends in balances. Assets Fixed rate, fixed term assets, such as residential mortgage loans and consumer loans, are reported based upon the scheduled repayments Capital Common shareholders’ equity is reported as non-interest sensitive. and estimated prepayments that reflect expected borrower behaviour. Yields Yields are based upon the effective interest rates for the assets or liabilities on October 31, 2013. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 161 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Interest Rate Gap Position ($ in millions, except as noted) Total Effective Effective Effective Non<0to
 3 4to
 6 7to
 12
 within interest 1to
 5 interest Over 5 interest interest As at October 31 months months months 1 year rate (%) years rate (%) years rate (%) sensitive Total Assets Cash and cash equivalents 23,784
 810 (71) 24,523 1.21 965 1.02 (17) – 612 26,083 Interest bearing deposits with banks 6,518 – – 6,518 0.78 – – – – – 6,518 Securities 95,833 2,791 4,628 103,252 1.45 23,511 2.23 7,330 3.94 888 134,981 Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 37,208 1,789 802 39,799 1.72 – – – – – 39,799 Loans 151,499 12,214 20,865 184,578 3.31 80,873 4.06 5,178 4.56 8,466 279,095 Other assets 33,226 235 1,096 34,557 na 9,089 na 327 na 6,850 50,823 Total assets 348,068
 17,839 27,320 393,227
 114,438
 12,818 – 16,816
 537,299 Liabilities and Equity Deposits 213,373 16,408 16,910 246,691 0.73 109,619 1.10 10,511 2.23 – 366,821 Securities sold but not yet purchased 22,446 – – 22,446 1.48 – – – – – 22,446 Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements 28,831 53 – 28,884 0.68 – – – – – 28,884 Other liabilities 46,988 1,382 919 49,289 na 15,760 na 8,908 na 9,251 83,208 Subordinated debt, Capital trust securities and preferred share liability 157 – – 157 na 3,700 – 602 – – 4,459 Total equity 377 150 275 802 na 2,747 na – – 27,932
 31,481 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 312,172
 17,993 18,104 348,269
 131,826
 20,021 37,183 537,299 Asset/liability gap position 35,896 (154)
 9,216 44,958 (17,388)
 (7,203) (20,367)
 – Notional amounts of derivatives (34,914) (2,612) (3,833) (41,359) 33,039 8,320 – – Total interest rate gap position -2013
 Canadian dollar 3,171 (3,706) 4,876 4,341 15,636 1,442 (21,419) – Foreign currency (2,189)
 940
 507 (742)
 15 (325) 1,052 – Total Gap 982 (2,766)
 5,383 3,599 – 15,651 – 1,117 – (20,367)
 – Total interest rate gap position -2012
 Canadian dollar 3,615 (2,801) 1,765 2,579 14,782 2,707 (20,068) – Foreign currency (4,589) 4,027 4,258 3,696 (4,268) (463) 1,035 – Total Gap (974) 1,226 6,023 6,275 – 10,514 – 2,244 – (19,033) – Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. 162 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Note 20: Equity Share Capital Outstanding As at October 31 (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 2013 2012 2011 Dividends Dividends Dividends Number of shares Amount declared per share Number of shares Amount declared per share Number of shares Amount declared per share Preferred Shares – Classified as Equity Class B – Series 5 Class B – Series 10 (1) Class B – Series 13 Class B – Series 14 Class B – Series 15 Class B – Series 16 Class B – Series 17 Class B – Series 18 Class B – Series 21 Class B – Series 23 Class B – Series 25 – – 14,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 6,267,391 5,732,609 
6,000,000 11,000,000 16,000,000 11,600,000 – – 350 250 250 157 
143 
150 275 400 290 – – 1.13 1.31 1.45 1.19 
0.17 
1.63 1.63 1.35 0.98 8,000,000 – 14,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 
12,000,000 – 6,000,000 11,000,000 16,000,000 11,600,000 200 – 350 250 250 
300 – 150 275 400 290 1.33 – 1.13 1.31 1.45 
1.30 – 1.63 1.63 1.35 0.98 8,000,000 12,000,000 14,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 
12,000,000 – 6,000,000 11,000,000 16,000,000 11,600,000 200 396 350 250 250 300 – 150 275 400 290 1.33 1.49 1.13 1.31 1.45 1.30 – 1.63 1.63 1.35 0.69 2,265 2,465 2,861 Common Shares Balance at beginning of year Issued under the Shareholder Dividend 650,729,644 11,957 638,999,563 11,332 566,468,440 6,927 Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan Issued under the Stock Option Plan and other stock-based compensation plans (Note 22) Issued on the exchange of shares of a subsidiary corporation Repurchased for cancellation (Note 20) Issued on the acquisition of a business 2,069,269 2,068,132 – (10,737,100) – 130 116 – (200) – 9,738,842 1,763,389 227,850 – 
– 543 80 2 – 
– 2,947,748 3,039,597 24,105 – 66,519,673 179 122 1 – 4,103 Balance at End of Year 644,129,945 12,003 2.94 650,729,644 11,957 2.82 638,999,563 11,332 2.80 Share Capital 14,268 14,422 14,193 (1) Dividend amounts are in U.S. dollars. During the year ended October 31, 2012, we redeemed all of our Class B – Series 10 Preferred shares. Dividends declared
 for the year ended October 31, 2012 were $0.37 per share and 12,000,000 shares were outstanding at the time of dividend declaration. Preferred Shares We are authorized by our shareholders to issue an unlimited number of Class A Preferred shares and Class B Preferred shares without par value, in series, for unlimited consideration. Class B Preferred shares may be issued in a foreign currency. During the year ended October 31, 2013, we redeemed all of our Non-cumulative Class B Preferred shares, Series 5, at a redemption price of $25.00 per share plus declared and unpaid dividends up to but excluding the date fixed for redemption. We also redeemed all of the outstanding 7 3⁄8% Non-cumulative Exchangeable Preferred Stock, Series A, issued by one of our subsidiaries at a redemption price of US$25.00 per share, plus unpaid dividends up to the date of redemption for an aggregate redemption of US$250 million. Prior to the redemption, these preferred shares were reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as non-controlling interest in subsidiaries. We recognized a gain of $107 million in contributed surplus related to foreign exchange upon redemption of these preferred shares. During the year ended October 31, 2012, we redeemed all of our U.S. dollar-denominated Non-cumulative Class B Preferred shares, Series 10, at a price of US$25.00 per share plus all declared and unpaid dividends up to but excluding the date fixed for redemption. We recognized a gain of $96 million in contributed surplus related to foreign exchange rate upon redemption of these preferred shares. Preferred Share Rights and Privileges Class B – Series 5 shares were redeemed for $25 cash per share on February 25, 2013. The shares carried a non-cumulative quarterly dividend of $0.33125 per share. Class B – Series 13 shares have been redeemable at our option since February 25, 2012 for $25.00 cash per share, plus a premium if we redeem the shares before February 25, 2016. The shares carry a non<cumulative quarterly dividend of $0.28125 per share. Class B – Series 14 shares have been redeemable at our option since November 25, 2012 for $25.00 cash per share, plus a premium if we redeem the shares before November 25, 2016. The shares carry a non<cumulative quarterly dividend of $0.328125 per share. Class B – Series 15 shares have been redeemable at our option since May 25, 2013 for $25.00 cash per share, plus a premium if we redeem the shares before May 25, 2017. The shares carry a non-cumulative quarterly dividend of $0.3625 per share. Class B – Series 16 shares have been redeemable at our option since August 25, 2013. On July 22, 2013, we announced that we did not intend to exercise our right to redeem the Non-cumulative 5-Year Rate Reset Class B Preferred shares, Series 16 (Series 16 Preferred shares). As a result, subject to certain conditions, the holders of the Series 16 Preferred shares had the right, at their option, to elect by August 12, 2013 to convert all or part of their Series 16 Preferred shares on a one-for-one basis into Non-cumulative Floating Rate Class B Preferred shares, Series 17 (Series 17 Preferred shares), effective August 26, 2013. As at October 31, 2013, 6.3 million Series 16 and 5.7 million Series 17 Preferred shares were outstanding for the five-year period commencing on August 26, 2013 and ending on August 25, 2018. Holders of the Series 17 Preferred shares have the option to convert back to Series 16 Preferred shares,
 and holders of Series 16 Preferred shares have the option to convert to Series 17 Preferred shares, on subsequent redemption dates. The Series 16 Preferred shares carry a non-cumulative quarterly dividend based on prevailing 5-year market rates plus a predetermined spread, established at each redemption date. The Series 17 Preferred shares carry a non-cumulative quarterly dividend based on Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 163 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 the prevailing 3-month market rates plus a pre-determined spread, established prior to each dividend declaration date. Class B – Series 18 shares are redeemable at our option on February 25, 2014 and every five years thereafter for $25.00 cash per share. If the shares are not redeemed on the redemption dates, investors have the option to convert the shares into Class B – Series 19 Preferred shares and, if converted, have the option to convert back to Series 18 Preferred shares on subsequent redemption dates. The Series 18 Preferred shares carry a non-cumulative quarterly dividend of $0.40625 per share until February 25, 2014. Dividends payable after February 25, 2014 on the Series 18 and Series 19 Preferred shares will be set based on prevailing market rates plus a predetermined spread. Class B – Series 21 shares are redeemable at our option on May 25, 2014 and every five years thereafter for $25.00 cash per share. If the shares are not redeemed on the redemption dates, investors have the option to convert the shares into Class B – Series 22 Preferred shares and, if converted, have the option to convert back to Series 21 Preferred shares on subsequent redemption dates. The Series 21 Preferred shares carry a non-cumulative quarterly dividend of $0.40625 per share until May 25, 2014. Dividends payable after May 25, 2014 on the Series 21 and Series 22 Preferred shares will be set based on prevailing market rates plus a predetermined spread. Class B – Series 23 shares are redeemable at our option on February 25, 2015 and every five years thereafter for $25.00 cash per share. If the shares are not redeemed on the redemption dates, investors have the option to convert the shares into Class B – Series 24 Preferred shares and, if converted, have the option to convert back to Series 23 Preferred shares on subsequent redemption dates. The Series 23 Preferred shares carry a non-cumulative quarterly dividend of $0.3375 per share until February 25, 2015. Dividends payable after February 25, 2015 on the Series 23 and Series 24 Preferred shares will be set based on prevailing market rates plus a predetermined spread. Class B – Series 25 shares are redeemable at our option on August 25, 2016 and every five years thereafter for $25.00 cash per share. If the shares are not redeemed on the redemption dates, investors have the option to convert the shares into Class B – Series 26 Preferred shares and, if converted, have the option to convert back to Series 25 Preferred shares on subsequent redemption dates. The Series 25 Preferred shares carry a non-cumulative quarterly dividend of $0.24375 per share until August 25, 2016. Dividends payable after August 25, 2016 on the Series 25 and Series 26 Preferred shares will be set based on prevailing market rates plus a predetermined spread. Common Shares We are authorized by our shareholders to issue an unlimited number of our common shares, without par value, for unlimited consideration. Our common shares are not redeemable or convertible. Dividends are declared by our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis and the amount can vary from quarter to quarter. During the year ended October 31, 2013, we issued 4,137,401 common shares primarily through our dividend reinvestment and share purchase plan and the exercise of stock options (11,730,081 in 2012). Normal Course Issuer Bid On February 1, 2013, we commenced our normal course issuer bid, effective for one year, to repurchase for cancellation up to 15,000,000 of our common shares. During the year, we repurchased 10,737,100 of our common shares at an average cost of $62.89 per share. Our previous normal course issuer bid, which allowed us to repurchase for cancellation up to 15,000,000 of our common shares, expired on December 15, 2011. During the year ended October 31, 2012, we did not repurchase any common shares. Issuances Exchangeable into Common Shares One of our subsidiaries, Bank of Montreal Securities Canada Limited (“BMSCL”), had issued various classes of non-voting shares that could be exchanged at the option of the holder for our common shares, based on a formula. During the year ended October 31, 2012, all of these BMSCL shares were converted into 227,850 of our common shares. Share Redemption and Dividend Restrictions OSFI must approve any plan to redeem any of our preferred share issues for cash. We are prohibited from declaring dividends on our preferred or common shares when we would be, as a result of paying such a dividend, in contravention of the capital adequacy, liquidity or any other regulatory directives issued under the Bank Act. In addition, common share dividends cannot be paid unless all dividends declared and payable on our preferred shares have been paid or sufficient funds have been set aside to do so. In addition, we have agreed that if either BMO Capital Trust or BMO Capital Trust II (the “Trusts”), two of our subsidiaries, fail to pay any required distribution on their capital trust securities, we will not declare dividends of any kind on any of our preferred or common shares for a period of time following the Trusts’ failure to pay the required distribution (as defined in the applicable prospectuses) unless the Trusts first pay such distribution to the holders of their capital trust securities (see Note 18). Shareholder Dividend Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan We offer a dividend reinvestment and share purchase plan (“DRIP”) for our shareholders. Participation in the plan is optional. Under the terms of the plan, cash dividends on common shares are reinvested to purchase additional common shares. Shareholders also have the opportunity to make optional cash payments to acquire additional common shares. Commencing with the dividend paid in the fourth quarter of 2013, common shares to supply the DRIP were purchased on the open market. We may issue these common shares at an average of the closing price of our common shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange based on the five trading days prior to the last business day of the month or we may purchase them on the open market at market prices. During the year ended October 31, 2013, we issued a total of 2,069,269 common shares from treasury (9,738,842 in 2012) and purchased 700,362 common shares (Nil in 2012) in the open market under the plan. Potential Share Issuances As at October 31, 2013, we had reserved 9,320,400 common shares (11,389,669 in 2012) for potential issuance in respect of our Shareholder Dividend Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan. We also have reserved 15,801,966 common shares (15,801,966 in 2012) for the potential exercise of stock options, as further described in Note 22. Treasury Shares When we purchase our common
 shares
 as
 part
 of
 our
 trading business,
 we
 record the cost
 of
 those
 shares as a reduction in
 shareholders’
 equity. If those shares
 are
 resold at a price
 higher than their cost,
 the premium
 is recorded as an increase in contributed surplus.
 If
 those
 shares are resold at a price
 below their
 cost, the
 discount is recorded as a reduction first to
 contributed surplus
 and then
 to
 retained earnings
 for any amounts
 in excess of total contributed
 surplus related to treasury shares. Non-Controlling Interest Included in non-controlling interest in subsidiaries as at October 31, 2013 were capital trust securities including accrued interest totalling $1,068 million ($1,068 million in 2012) related to non-controlling interest in subsidiaries and formed part of our Tier 1 regulatory capital. During 2013, we redeemed the U.S. $250 million, 7.375% preferred shares issued by Harris Preferred Capital Corporation, a U.S. subsidiary. 164 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Note 21: Capital Management Our objective is to maintain a strong capital position in a cost-effective structure that: considers our target regulatory capital ratios and internal assessment of required economic capital; is consistent with our targeted credit ratings; underpins our operating groups’ business strategies; and builds depositor confidence and long-term shareholder value. Our approach includes establishing limits, targets and performance measures for the management of balance sheet positions, risk levels and minimum capital amounts, as well as issuing and redeeming capital instruments to obtain a cost-effective capital structure. Regulatory capital requirements and risk-weighted assets for the consolidated entity are determined on a Basel III basis. Adjusted common shareholders’ equity, known as Common Equity Tier 1 capital under Basel III, is the most permanent form of capital. It is comprised of common shareholders’ equity less a deduction for goodwill, excess intangible assets and deductions for certain other items under Basel III. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of regulatory common equity, preferred shares and innovative hybrid instruments net of Tier 1 capital deductions. Total capital includes Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, net of certain deductions. Tier 2 capital is primarily comprised of subordinated debentures and the eligible portion of the collective allowance for credit losses, net of certain Tier 2 capital deductions. Details of components of our capital position are presented in Notes 13, 16, 17, 18 and 20. Our Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio, Tier 1 Capital Ratio, Total Capital Ratio and Assets-to-Capital Multiple are the primary regulatory capital measures. ‰The Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio is defined as common shareholders’ equity net of capital adjustments divided by risk-weighted assets. ‰The Tier 1 Capital Ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. ‰The Total Capital Ratio is defined as Total capital divided by risk-weighted assets. ‰The Assets-to-Capital Multiple is calculated by dividing total assets, including specified off-balance sheet items net of other specified deductions, by total capital calculated on a Basel III transitional basis. Regulatory Capital and
 Risk-Weighted
 Assets
 Basel III Basel II (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 2013 2012 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 21,227 21,635 Tier 1 Capital 24,599 25,896 Tier 2 Capital 4,901 4,773 Total Capital 29,500 30,669 Risk-Weighted Assets 215,094 205,230 Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio 9.9% 10.5% Tier 1 Capital Ratio 11.4%
 12.6% Total Capital Ratio 13.7%
 14.9% Assets-to-Capital Multiple 15.6 15.2 All 2013 balances above are on a Basel III “all-in” basis. In 2012, we presented Basel II balances. Basel II amounts and ratios may not be comparable to Basel III amounts and ratios. We have met OSFI’s stated minimum capital ratio requirements as at October 31, 2013. Note 22: Employee Compensation – Stock-Based
 Compensation Stock Option Plan We determine the fair value of stock options on their grant date We maintain a Stock Option Plan for designated officers and employees. and record this amount as compensation expense over the period that Options are granted at an exercise price equal to the closing price of our the stock options vest, with a corresponding increase to contributed common shares on the day before the grant date. Options vest in surplus. When these stock options are exercised, we issue shares and tranches over a four-year period starting from their grant date. Each record the amount of proceeds, together with the amount recorded in tranche (i.e. the 25% portion that vests each year) is treated as a contributed surplus, in share capital. Stock options granted to employees separate award with a different vesting period. A portion of the options eligible to retire are expensed at the date of grant. can only be exercised once certain performance targets are met. All options expire 10 years from their grant date. The following table summarizes information about our Stock Option Plan: (Canadian $, except as noted)2013 2012 2011 Weighted-Weighted-Weighted-Number of average Number of average Number of average stock options exercise price stock options exercise price stock options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of year 15,801,966 79.96 16,989,499 84.28 15,232,139 48.74 Granted 2,003,446 60.11 2,526,345 56.00 1,798,913 57.78 Granted as part of the M&I acquisition – – – – 3,676,632 193.12 Exercised 2,069,588 47.95 1,766,318 40.17 3,040,825 37.34 Forfeited/cancelled 5,558 56.35 54,565 40.77 34,758 48.20 Expired 761,555 150.78 1,892,995 126.62 642,602 52.92 Outstanding at end of year 14,968,711 78.17 15,801,966 79.96 16,989,499 84.28 Exercisable at end of year 7,283,321 98.79 7,900,710 103.87 9,311,241 108.54 Available for grant 5,201,062 6,897,964 8,728,782 Outstanding stock options as a percentage of outstanding shares 2.32% 2.43% 2.66% Employee compensation expense related to this plan for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $14 million, $17 million and $17 million before tax, respectively ($13 million, $16 million and $16 million after tax, respectively). The intrinsic value of a stock option grant is the difference between the current market price of our common shares and the strike price of the option. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding at October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $215 million, $79 million and $107 million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercisable at October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $107 million, $47 million and $66 million, respectively. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 165 Notes 2012 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Options outstanding and exercisable at October 31, 2013 and 2012 by range of exercise price were as follows: (Canadian $, except as noted) 2013 Options outstanding Options exercisable Options outstanding Options exercisable Weighted-Weighted-Weighted-Weighted<average Weighted-average Weighted-average Weighted-average Weighted-Number remaining average Number remaining average Number remaining average Number remaining average Range of exercise of stock contractual exercise of stock contractual exercise of stock contractual exercise of stock contractual exercise prices options life (years) price options life (years) price options life (years) price options life (years) price $30.01 to $40.00 1,044,175 5.1 34.12 1,044,175 5.1 34.12 1,660,235 6.1 34.12 1,174,327 6.1 34.12 $40.01 to $50.00 262,959 5.6 42.44 262,959 5.6 42.44 632,548 4.0 42.07 554,261 4.5 42.22 $50.01 to $60.00 6,934,041 6.0 55.78 2,845,945 6.1 55.57 7,906,485 6.6 55.67 2,247,120 5.0 55.09 $60.01 to $70.00 4,886,738 5.6 62.28 1,289,444 3.2 63.94 3,303,883 4.2 63.71 1,626,187 4.2 63.77 $70.01 and over (1) 1,840,798 3.1 234.78 1,840,798 3.1 234.78 2,298,815 3.7 230.42 2,298,815 3.7 230.42 (1) Issued as part of the acquisition of M&I. The following table summarizes non-vested stock option activity for the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012: (Canadian $, except as noted) 2013 2012 Number of stock options Weighted-average grant date fair value Number of stock options Weighted-average grant date fair value Non-vested at beginning of year Granted Vested Forfeited/cancelled 7,901,256 2,003,446 2,218,762 550 7.81 5.29 7.59 9.46 7,678,258 2,526,345 2,299,347 4,000 8.70 5.53 8.28 9.46 Non-vested at end of year 7,685,390 7.18 7,901,256 7.81 The following table summarizes further information about our Stock Option Plan: (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 2013 2012 2011 Unrecognized compensation cost for non-vested stock option awards 6 9 12
 Weighted-average period over which it will be recognized (in years) 2.1 2.3 2.5 Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised 35 31 72 Cash proceeds from stock options exercised 99 71 114 Actual tax benefits realized on stock options exercised – 4 4 Weighted-average share price for stock options exercised 64.8 57.8 60.9 The fair
 value
 of options granted was estimated
 using a binomial option pricing model.
 The
 weighted-average fair value of
 options
 granted
 during the years ended October
 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $5.29, $5.54 and $3.87, respectively, of
 which
 the weighted-average
 fair value of options granted as
 part
 of
 the
 M&I acquisition
 was $2.22 for a total of
 3,676,632 stock options.
 To determine the
 fair value of
 the
 stock option
 tranches (i.e. the
 25% portion that
 vests each year) on
 the
 grant date,
 the following
 ranges of values were
 used for each
 option
 pricing assumption:
 2013 2012 2011 Expected dividend yield 6.0% – 6.2% 6.8% – 7.2% 5.5% – 6.4% Expected share price volatility 18.1% – 18.6% 21.3% – 22.3% 18.7% – 22.8% Risk-free rate of return 1.7% – 1.9% 1.5% – 1.8% 1.8% – 3.0% Expected period until exercise (in years) 5.5 – 7.0 5.5–7.0
 4.6–7.0
 Changes to the input assumptions can result in different fair value estimates. Expected dividend yield is based on market expectations of future dividends on our common shares. Expected volatility is determined based on the market consensus implied volatility for traded options on our common shares. The risk-free rate is based on the yields of a Canadian swap curve with maturities similar to the expected period until exercise of the options. The weighted-average exercise price on the grant date for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $60.11, $56.00 and $57.78, respectively. The weighted-average exercise price on the grant date for the options granted as part of the M&I acquisition was $193.12 for the year ended October 31, 2011. Stock-Based Compensation Share Purchase Plan We offer our employees the option of directing a portion of their gross salary toward the purchase of our common shares. We match 50% of employee contributions up to 6% of their individual gross salary. The shares held in the employee share purchase plan are purchased on the open market and are considered outstanding for purposes of computing earnings per share. The dividends earned on our common shares held by the plan are used to purchase additional common shares on the open market. We account for our contribution as employee compensation expense when it is contributed to the plan. Employee compensation expense related to this plan for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $50 million, $48 million and $45 million, respectively. There were 19,272,978, 19,311,585 and 18,288,382 common shares held in this plan for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Mid-Term Incentive Plans We offer mid-term incentive plans for executives and certain senior employees. Depending on the plan, the recipient receives either a single cash payment at the end of the three-year period of the plan, or cash payments over the three years of the plan. The amount of the payment is adjusted to reflect reinvested dividends and changes in the market value of our common shares. Mid-term incentive plan units granted during the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 totalled 5,823,533, 6,379,562 and 5,154,479, respectively. We entered into agreements with third parties to assume most of our obligations related to these plans in exchange for cash payments of $292 million, $310 million and $267 million in the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Amounts paid under these agreements were recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet in other assets and are recorded as employee compensation expense evenly over the period prior to payment to employees. Amounts related to units granted to employees who are eligible to retire are expensed at the time of grant. We no longer have any liability for the obligations transferred to third parties because any future payments required will be the responsibility of the third parties. The amount deferred and recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet totalled $172 million and $152 million as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The deferred amount as at October 31, 2013 is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years (1.8 years in 2012). Employee compensation expense related to these plans for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $279 million, $280 million and $245 million before tax, respectively ($206 million, $204 million and $176 million after tax, respectively). Notes 166 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 For the remaining obligations related to plans for which we have not entered into agreements with third parties, the fair value of the amount of compensation expense is recognized as an expense and a liability over the period from the grant date to payment date to employees. This liability is re-measured to fair value each reporting period. Amounts related to employees who are eligible to retire are expensed at the time of grant. Mid-term incentive plan units granted under these plans during the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 totalled 981,242, 1,133,980 and 769,933, respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value of the units granted during the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $50 million, $65 million and $46 million, respectively. Payments made under these plans for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $37 million, $44 million and $22 million, respectively. The intrinsic value of the vested plan units recorded in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as at October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $126 million, $85 million and $71 million, respectively. Employee compensation expense related to plans for which we have not entered into agreements with third parties for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $63 million, $48 million and $40 million before tax, respectively ($47 million, $35 million and $29 million after tax, respectively). We economically hedge the impact of the change in the market value of our common shares by entering into total return swaps. Hedging gains recognized for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $32 million, $3 million and $1 million, respectively, resulting in net employee compensation expense of $31 million, $45 million and $39 million before tax, respectively ($23 million, $33 million and $28 million after tax, respectively). A total of 15,278,975, 14,695,481 and 14,586,051 mid-term incentive plan units were outstanding for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Deferred Incentive Plans We offer deferred
 incentive
 plans for members
 of
 our
 Board of
 Directors,
 executives and key
 employees
 in BMO Capital
 Markets and
 Wealth Management. Under
 these plans,
 fees, annual
 incentive payments
 and/or
 commissions can
 be deferred as
 stock units of
 our
 common shares.
 These stock units are
 either fully vested on
 the
 grant date
 or
 vest at
 the
 end of
 three years. The
 value of
 these
 stock units is
 adjusted
 to
 reflect reinvested dividends and
 changes in
 the
 market value of
 our
 common shares.
 Deferred incentive payments are paid upon the participant’s departure from the bank. As a result of changes to the deferred
 share unit plan terms effective September 30, 2013, the deferred incentive payments can now only be made in cash. Employee compensation expense for these plans is recorded in the year the fees, incentive payments and/or commissions are earned. Changes in the amount of the incentive payments as a result of dividends and share price movements are recorded as employee compensation expense in the period of the change. Deferred incentive plan units granted during the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 totalled 364,193, 360,596 and 298,256, respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value of the units granted during the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $22 million, $21 million and $18 million, respectively. Liabilities related to these plans are recorded in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and totalled $349 million and $262 million as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Payments made under these plans for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $16 million, $19 million and $13 million, respectively. Employee compensation expense related to these plans for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $85 million, $22 million and $7 million before tax, respectively ($63 million, $16 million and $5 million after tax, respectively). We have entered into derivative instruments to hedge our exposure related to these plans. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded as employee compensation expense in the period in which they arise. Hedging gains (losses) for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 of $75 million, $9 million and $(2) million before tax, respectively, were also recognized, resulting in net employee compensation expense of $10 million, $13 million and $9 million before tax, respectively ($7 million, $9 million and $6 million after tax, respectively). A total of 4,339,207, 4,026,338 and 3,930,175 deferred incentive plan units were outstanding for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Note 23: Employee Compensation – Pension
 andOther Employee Future
 Benefits
Pension and Other Employee Future Benefit Plans We have a number of arrangements in Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom that provide pension and other employee future benefits to our retired and current employees. Pension arrangements
 include
 defined benefit
 pension plans,
 as
 well
 as supplemental arrangements
 that
 provide
 pension benefits
 in
 excess
 of
 statutory limits. Generally, under
 these plans
 we provide retirement benefits based on
 an
 employee’s
 years of service and
 average annual
 earnings over a period
 of
 time
 prior
 to retirement. We are
 responsible for
 meeting
 our
 statutory obligations
 for funding
 of the pension
 plans. Some
 groups of employees are eligible
 to make voluntary contributions
 in order to receive enhanced
 benefits. Our
 pension and
 other employee
 future benefit expenses,
 recorded in employee
 compensation
 expense, mainly
 comprise the current
 service cost
 plus
 the
 interest cost on plan liabilities less the expected
 return on
 plan
 assets.
 We also provide defined contribution pension plans to employees in some of our subsidiaries. Under these plans, we are responsible for contributing a predetermined amount to a participant’s retirement savings, based on a percentage of that employee’s salary. The costs of these plans, recorded in employee compensation expense, are equal to our contributions to the plans. We also provide other employee future benefits, including health and dental care benefits and life insurance, for current and retired employees. Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, bonuses and other benefits, are accounted for on an accrual basis over the period in which the employees provide the related services. Pension and Other Employee Future Benefit Liabilities We have the following types of benefit liabilities: defined benefit and other employee future benefit liabilities. These benefit liabilities represent the amount of pension and other employee future benefits that our employees and retirees have earned as at year end. Our actuaries perform valuations of our benefit liabilities for pension and other employee future benefits as at October 31 of each year using the projected unit credit method based on management’s assumptions about discount rates, rate of compensation increase, retirement age, mortality and health care cost trend rates. The discount rates for the main Canadian and U.S. pension and other employee future benefit plans were selected using high-quality corporate bonds with terms matching the plans’ cash flows. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 167 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Components of the change in our benefit liabilities year over year and our pension and other employee future benefit expense are as follows: Benefits earned by employees represent benefits earned in the current year. They are determined with reference to the current workforce and the amount of benefits to which employees will be entitled upon retirement, based on the provisions of our benefit plans. Interest cost on benefit liabilities represents the increase in the liabilities that results from the passage of time. Actuarial gains or losses may arise in two ways. First, each year our actuaries recalculate the benefit liabilities and compare them to those estimated as at the previous year end. Any differences that result from changes in assumptions or from plan experience being different from management’s expectations at the previous year end are considered actuarial gains or losses. Secondly, actuarial gains and losses arise when there are differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets. At the beginning of each year, we determine whether the unrecognized actuarial gain or loss is more than 10% of the greater of our plan asset or benefit liability balances. Any unrecognized actuarial gain or loss in excess of this 10% threshold is recognized in employee compensation expense over the expected remaining service period of active employees. Amounts below the 10% threshold are not recognized in income. Plan amendments are changes in our benefit liabilities that result from changes to provisions of the plans. The effects of plan amendments are recognized immediately to the extent that benefits are vested and are otherwise recognized over the average period until benefits are vested on a straight-line basis. Expected return on assets represents management’s best estimate of the long-term rate of return on plan assets applied to the fair value of plan assets. We establish our estimate of the expected rate of return on plan assets based on the plan’s target asset allocation and estimated rates of return for each asset class. Estimated rates of return are based on expected returns from fixed income securities, which take into consideration bond yields. Long-term returns are then estimated for Summarized information for the past three years is as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) global equity markets. Returns from other asset classes are set to reflect the relative risks of these classes as compared to fixed income and equity assets. Differences between expected and actual returns on plan assets are included in our actuarial gain or loss balance, as described above. Settlements occur when benefit liabilities for plan participants are settled, usually through lump sum cash payments, and as a result we no longer have any obligation to provide such participants with benefit payments in the future. For pension benefit plans that are in a net benefit asset position, the recognized asset is limited to the total of any unrecognized actuarial losses and past service costs plus the present value of economic benefits available in the form of future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan (the “asset ceiling”). Funding of Pension and Other Employee Future Benefit Plans Our defined benefit pension plans in Canada and the United States are funded by us in accordance with statutory requirements and the assets in these plans are used to pay benefits to retirees. Our supplementary pension plans in Canada are funded, while in the United States the supplementary plan is unfunded. Our other employee future benefit plans in the United States and Canada are either partially funded or unfunded. Pension and benefit payments related to these plans are either paid through the respective plan or paid directly by us. We measure the fair value of plan assets for our plans in Canada and the United States as at October 31. In addition to actuarial valuations for accounting purposes, we are required to prepare valuations for determining our pension contributions (our “funding valuation”). The most recent funding valuation for our main Canadian plan was performed as at October 31, 2013. The next funding valuation for this plan will be performed as at October 31, 2014. An annual funding valuation is also required for our plan in the United States. The most recent valuation was performed as at January 1, 2013. Pension benefit plansOther employee future benefit plans 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Defined benefit liability 6,181 6,012 5,124 1,174 1,175 977 Fair value of plan assets 6,267 5,802 5,338 95 81 72 Surplus (deficit) 86 (210) 214 (1,079) (1,094) (905) (Gain) loss in the benefit liability arising from changes in assumptions (93) 693 73 (53) 152 (66) Excess (shortfall) of actual returns over expected returns on plan assets 188 177 (87) 5 4 1 Notes Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. Asset Allocations The investment policy for plan assets is to have a diversified mix of quality investments that are expected to provide a superior rate of return over the long term, while limiting performance volatility. Plan assets are rebalanced within ranges around target allocations. Risk Management The plans are exposed to various risks, including market risk (interest rate, equity and foreign currency risks), credit risk, operational risk, surplus risk and longevity risk. We follow a number of approaches to monitor and actively manage these risks, including: ‰Monitoring surplus-at-risk, which measures a plan’s risk in an asset-liability framework. ‰Stress testing and scenario analyses to evaluate the volatility of the plans’ financial positions and their impact on the bank. ‰Hedging of currency exposures and interest rate risk within policy limits. ‰Controls related to asset mix allocations, geographic allocations, portfolio duration, credit quality, liquidity, sector guidelines, issuer/ counterparty limits, and others. ‰Ongoing monitoring of exposures, performance and risk levels. 168 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 The weighted-average actual and target asset allocations of the plans, based on the fair market values at October 31, are as follows: Pension benefit plansOther employee future benefit plans Target Actual Actual Actual Target Actual Actual Actual 2013 2013 2012 2011 2013 2013 2012 2011 Equities 40% 43% 39% 47% 50% 50% 50% 50% Fixed income investments 45% 42% 47% 44% 50% 49% 49% 49% Other 15% 15% 14% 9% – 1%
 1% 1% Pension and Other Employee Future Benefit Expenses Pension and other employee future benefit expenses are determined as follows: (Canadian $ in millions)Pension benefit plans Other employee future benefit plans 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Annual Benefits Expense Benefits earned by employees 225 186 163 26 18 21 Interest cost on accrued benefit liability 260 266 253 52 54 53 Actuarial loss recognized in expense 17 1–
 – ––
 Plan amendment costs recognized in expense – – 25
 (4) (3) (3) Expected return on plan assets (1) (328) (313) (323) (6) (5) (5) Benefits expense 174 140 118 68 64 66 Canada and Quebec pension plan expense 69 67 64 – ––
 Defined contribution expense 8 77
 – ––
 Total annual pension and other employee future benefit expenses recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income 251 214 189 68 64 66 (1) The actual return on plan assets for the pension benefit plans and other employee futureCertain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s benefit plans was $516 million and $11 million in 2013, respectively ($490 million and presentation.
 $9 million in 2012, respectively). (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted)Pension benefit plans Other employee future benefit plans 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit expenses Estimated average service period of active employees (in years) 10 10 11 15 14 14 Average period until benefits are vested (in years) na na na 12 11 11 Discount rate at beginning of year 4.2% 5.1% 5.2% 4.4% 5.6% 5.4% Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 5.7% 5.9% 6.3% 7.0% 7.0% 7.0% Rate of compensation increase 2.9% 3.3% 3.2% 3.2% 3.2% 3.0% Assumed overall health care cost trend rate na na na 5.4% (1) 5.4% (1) 5.6% (2) (1) Trending to 4.5% in 2030 and remaining at that level thereafter.na – not applicable (2) Trending to 4.4% in 2030 and remaining at that level thereafter. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 169 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Changes in the estimated financial positions of our pension benefit plans and other employee future benefit plans are as follows: (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) Pension benefit plans Other employee future benefit plans 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Benefit liability Benefit liability at beginning of year 6,012 5,124 4,839 1,175 977 992 Opening adjustment for acquisitions – – 17
 – – 8 Benefits earned by employees 225 186 163 26 18 21 Interest cost on benefit liability 260 266 253 52 54 53 Benefits paid to pensioners and employees (286) (264) (243) (30) (29) (30) Voluntary employee contributions 11 10 9 – – – (Gain) loss on the benefit liability arising from changes in assumptions (93) 693 73 (53) 152 (66) Plan settlement – – 1 – – – Plan amendments – – 25
 – – – Other, primarily foreign exchange 52 (3) (13) 4 3 (1) Benefit liability at end of year 6,181 6,012 5,124 1,174 1,175 977 Wholly or partially funded benefit liability 6,075 5,938 5,066 104 102 102 Unfunded benefit liability 106 74 58 1,070 1,073 875 Total benefit liability 6,181 6,012 5,124 1,174 1,175 977 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit liability Discount rate at end of year 4.6% 4.2% 5.1% 4.7% 4.4% 5.6% Rate of compensation increase 2.9% 2.9% 3.3% 2.7% 3.2% 3.2% Assumed overall health care cost trend rate na na na 5.4% (1) 5.4% (1) 5.5% (1) Fair value of plan assets Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 5,802 5,338 5,185 81 72 67 Expected return on plan assets 328 313 323 6 5 5 Excess (shortfall) of actual returns over expected returns on plan assets 188 177 (87) 5 4 1 Employer contributions 178 223 171 30 29 30 Voluntary employee contributions 11 10 9 – – – Benefits paid to pensioners and employees (286) (264) (239) (30) (29) (30) Settlement payments – – (3) – – – Other, primarily foreign exchange 46 5 (21) 3 – (1) Fair value of plan assets at end of year 6,267 5,802 5,338 95 81 72 Plan funded status 86 (210) 214 (1,079) (1,094) (905) Unrecognized actuarial loss (a) 385 675 160 25 83 (63) Unrecognized (benefit) of plan amendments (b) – – – – (4) (7) Net benefit asset (liability) at end of year 471 465 374 (1,054) (1,015) (975) Recorded in: Other assets 523 508 411 – – – Other liabilities (52) (43) (37) (1,054) (1,015) (975) Net benefit asset (liability) at end of year 471 465 374 (1,054) (1,015) (975) Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s (1) Trending to 4.5% in 2030 and remaining at that level thereafter. presentation. The plans paid $3 million for the year ended October 31, 2013 ($4 million in 2012) to us and na – not applicable certain of our subsidiaries for investment management, record-keeping, custodial and administrative services rendered on the same terms that we offer to our customers for these services. The plans did not hold any of our shares directly as at October 31, 2013 and 2012. (a) A continuity of our actuarial (gains) losses is as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) Pension benefit plans Other employee future benefit plans 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Unrecognized actuarial (gain) loss at beginning of year 675 160 – 83 (63) – (Gain) loss on the benefit liability arising from changes in assumptions (93) 693 73 (53) 152 (66) Shortfall (excess) of actual returns over expected returns on plan assets (188) (177) 87 (5) (4) (1) Recognition in expense of a portion of the unrecognized actuarial loss (17) (1) – – – – Impact of foreign exchange and other 8 – – – (2) 4 Unrecognized actuarial (gain) loss at end of year 385 675 160 25 83 (63) Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. Notes 170 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 (b) A continuity of the unrecognized benefit of plan amendments is as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) Pension benefit plans Other employee future benefit plans 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Unrecognized (benefit) of plan amendments at beginning of year – –– (4) (7) (10) Cost of plan amendments initiated during the year – – 25
 – ––
 Recognition in expense of a portion of the unrecognized cost (benefit) of plan amendments – – (25) 4 33
 Impact of foreign exchange and other – –– – ––
 Unrecognized (benefit) of plan amendments at end of year – –– – (4) (7) Pension Other employee Sensitivity of Assumptions benefit plans future benefit plans Key weighted-average economic assumptions used in measuring the Benefit Benefit Benefit Benefitpension benefit liability, the other employee future benefit liability and (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) liability expense liability expense related expenses are outlined in the adjacent table. The sensitivity Discount rate (%) 4.6 4.2 4.7 4.4 analysis provided in the table should be used with caution as it is Impact of: 1% increase ($) (743) (39) (113) – hypothetical and the impact of changes in each key assumption may not 1% decrease ($) 930 105 176 4 be linear. The sensitivities to changes in each key variable have been Rate of compensation increase (%) 2.9 2.9 2.7 3.2 calculated independently of the impact of changes in other key Impact of: 0.25% increase ($) 43 11 1 – variables. Actual experience may result in simultaneous changes in a 0.25% decrease ($) (42) (9) (1) – number of key assumptions. Changes in one factor may result in Expected rate of return on assets (%) na 5.7 na 7.0 changes in another, which would amplify or reduce certain sensitivities. Impact of: 1% increase ($) na (57) na (1) 1% decrease ($) na 57 na 1 Assumed overall health care cost trend rate (%) na na 5.4 (1) 5.4 (1) Impact of: 1% increase ($) na na 96 7 1% decrease ($) na na (94) (7) (1) Trending to 4.5% in 2030 and remaining at that level thereafter. na – not applicable Cash Flows Cash payments we made during the year in connection with our employee future benefit plans are as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) Pension benefit plans Other employee future benefit plans 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Contributions to defined benefit plans 154 198 150 – – – Contributions to defined contribution plans 7 7 7 – – – Benefits paid directly to pensioners 24 25 21 30 29 30 Total 185 230 178 30 29 30 Our best estimate of the amounts we expect to contribute for the year ending October 31, 2014 is approximately $257 million to our pension benefit plans and $41 million to our other employee future benefit plans. Estimated Future Benefit Payments Estimated future benefit payments in the next five years and thereafter are as follows: Other employee future (Canadian $ in millions) Pension benefit plans benefit plans 2014 308 41 2015 338 43 2016 341 46 2017 351 48 2018 363 51 2019-2023 2,006 294 Note 24: Income Taxes We report our provision for income taxes in our Consolidated Statement of Income based upon transactions recorded in our consolidated financial statements regardless of when they are recognized for income tax purposes, with the exception of repatriation of retained earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, as noted below. In addition, we record an income tax expense or benefit directly in shareholders’ equity when the taxes relate to amounts recorded in shareholders’ equity. For example, income tax expense (recovery) on hedging gains (losses) related to our net investment in foreign operations is recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of net gain (loss) on translation of net foreign operations. Current tax is the amount of income tax recoverable (payable) in respect of the taxable loss (profit) for a period. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates expected to apply when temporary differences reverse. Changes in Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 171 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 deferred income tax assets and liabilities related to a change in tax rates are recorded in income in the period the tax rate is substantively enacted, except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event which is recognized in either other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Included in deferred income tax assets is $178 million related to Canadian tax loss carryforwards that will expire in 2030 to 2033 and $1,307 million related to U.S. operations that will expire in various amounts in U.S. taxation years from 2028 through 2032. On the evidence available, including management projections of income, management believes that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by our business operations to support these deferred tax assets. The amount of tax on temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognized in the Components of Deferred Income Tax Balances statement of financial position is $205 million. Deferred tax assets have not been recognized in respect of these items because it is not probable that realization of these assets will occur. Income that we earn in foreign countries through our branches or subsidiaries is generally subject to tax in those countries. We are also subject to Canadian taxation on the income earned in our foreign branches. Canada allows a credit for foreign taxes paid on this income. Upon repatriation of earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries, we would be required to pay tax on certain of these earnings. As repatriation of such earnings is not planned in the foreseeable future, we have not recorded the related deferred income tax liability. The amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognized is $20 billion as at October 31, 2013 ($18 billion in 2012). Deferred Other Tax loss Allowance Employee compensation comprehensive carry<(Canadian $ in millions) for credit losses future benefits benefits income forwards Other Total Deferred Income Tax Assets (1) As at October 31, 2011 Benefit (expense) to income statement Benefit to equity Translation and other 1,809 (718) – 6 252 21 – – 291 18 – 1 (43) – 10 (14) 1,122 355 – 
– 485 (9) – 1 3,916 (333) 10 (6) As at October 31, 2012 Benefit (expense) to income statement Benefit to equity Translation and other 1,097 (216) – 33 273 45 – 
– 310 30 – 4 (47) – 16 2 1,477 (35) – 43 477 (14) – 1 3,587 (190) 16 83 As at October 31, 2013 914 318 344 (29) 1,485 464 3,496 (Canadian $ in millions) Premises and equipment Pension benefits Goodwill and intangible assets Securities Other Total Deferred Income Tax Liabilities (2) As at October 31, 2011 Benefit (expense) to income statement Translation and other (259) (60) (1) (121) (3) – (267) 36 (1) (197) 48 1 (31) 18 (15) (875) 39 (16) As at October 31, 2012 (320) (124) (232) (148) (28) (852)Acquisitions – – (2) ––
 (2)Benefit (expense) to income statement 6 (13) (35) 113 108 179Translation and other (6) 1 (6) – (3) (14)As at October 31, 2013 (320) (136) (275) (35) 77 (689) (1) Deferred tax assets of $2,914 million and $2,906 million as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, are presented on the balance sheet net by legal
 jurisdiction. (2) Deferred tax liabilities of $107 million and $171 million as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, are presented on the balance sheet net by legal
 jurisdiction. 172 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Notes Provision for Income Taxes (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 2011 Consolidated Statement of Income Current Provision for income taxes for the current period 1,147 756 1,034 Adjustments in respect of current tax for prior periods (29) (112) (39) Deferred Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12 301 (121) Effect of changes in tax rates (1) (7) 2 1,129 938 876 Shareholders' Equity Income tax expense (recovery) related to: Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, net of hedging activities (31) (26) (40) Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (57) (48) 128 Hedging of unrealized (gains) losses on translation of net foreign operations (146) (13) 26 Total 895 851 990 Components of Total Provision
 for Income
 Taxes (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 2011 Canada: Current income taxes Federal 484 316 608 Provincial 319 201 333 803 517 941 Canada: Deferred income taxes Federal (137) 30 (29) Provincial (96) 17 (14) (233) 47 (43) Total Canadian 570 564 898 Foreign: Current income taxes 96 50 140 Deferred income taxes 229 237 (48) Total foreign 325 287 92 Total 895 851 990 Set out below is a reconciliation of our statutory tax rates and income tax that would be payable at these rates to the effective income tax rates and provision for income taxes that we have recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Income: (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 2013 2012 2011 Combined Canadian federal and provincial income taxes at the statutory tax rate 1,420 26.4% (1) 1,364 26.6% (1) 1,125 28.2% (1) Increase (decrease) resulting from: Tax-exempt income from securities (250) (4.7) (188) (3.7) (161) (4.0) Foreign operations subject to different tax rates (8) (0.2) (30) (0.6) (80) (2.0) Change in tax rate for deferred income taxes (1) – (7) (0.1) 2 0.1 Run-off of structured credit activities (6) (0.1) (67) (1.3) 14 0.3 Adjustments in respect of current tax for prior periods (29) (0.5) (112) (2.2) (39) (1.0) Other 3 0.1 (22) (0.4) 15 0.4 Provision for income taxes and effective tax rate 1,129 21.0% 938 18.3% 876 22.0% (1) The combined statutory tax rate changed during the year as a result of legislation that became substantively enacted with respect to the year. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 173 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Note 25: Earnings Per Share
 Basic Earnings per Share Our basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing our net income, after deducting total preferred share dividends, by the daily average number of fully paid common shares outstanding throughout the year. Basic Earnings per
 Share (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) 2013 2012 2011 Net income attributable to bank shareholders 4,183 4,115 3,041 Dividends on preferred shares (120) (136) (146) Net income available to common shareholders 4,063 3,979 2,895 Average number of common shares outstanding (in thousands) 648,476 644,407 591,403 Basic earnings per share (Canadian $) 6.27 6.18 4.90 Diluted Earnings per Share Diluted earnings per share represents what our earnings per share would have been if instruments convertible into common shares that would have had the impact of reducing our earnings per share had been converted, either at the beginning of the year for instruments that were outstanding at the beginning of the year or from the date of issue for instruments issued during the year. Diluted Earnings per
 Share (Canadian $ in millions, except as noted) Convertible Shares In determining diluted earnings per share, we increase net income available to common shareholders by the aggregate amount of dividends paid on convertible preferred shares and interest on capital trust securities, as these distributions would not have been paid if the instruments had been converted at the beginning of the year. Similarly, we increase the average number of common shares outstanding by the number of shares that would have been issued had the conversion taken place at the beginning of the year or on the date of issue, if later. Employee Stock Options In determining diluted earnings per share, we increase the average number of common shares outstanding by the number of shares that would have been issued if all stock options with a strike price below the average share price for the year had been exercised. When performance targets have not been met, affected options are excluded from the calculation. We also decrease the average number of common shares outstanding by the number of our common shares that we could have repurchased if we had used the proceeds from the exercise of stock options to repurchase them on the open market at the average share price for the year. We do not adjust for stock options with a strike price above the average share price for the year because including them would increase our earnings per share, not dilute it. 2013 2012 2011 Net income available to common shareholders adjusted for dilution effect 4,063 3,989 2,935 Average number of common shares outstanding (in thousands) 648,476 644,407 591,403 Convertible shares – 3,040 13,536 Stock options potentially exercisable (1) 10,656 6,353 7,928 Common shares potentially repurchased (9,326) (5,185) (5,799) Average diluted number of common shares outstanding (in thousands) 649,806 648,615 607,068 Diluted earnings per share (Canadian $) 6.26 6.15 4.84 (1) In computing diluted earnings per share, we excluded average stock options outstanding of 2,677,737, 6,226,858 and 4,549,499 with weighted-average
 exercise prices of $201.93, $132.63 and $100.73 for the years ended October 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, as the average share price for the period did not exceed the exercise price. Note 26: Operating and
 Geographic Segmentation Operating Groups Notes We conduct our business through three operating groups, each of which has a distinct mandate. We determine our operating groups based on our management structure and therefore these groups, and results attributed to them, may not be comparable with those of other financial services companies. We evaluate the performance of our groups using measures such as net income, revenue growth, return on equity, net economic profit and non-interest expense-to-revenue (productivity) ratio, as well as cash operating leverage. Personal and Commercial Banking Personal and Commercial Banking (“P&C”) is comprised of two operating segments: Canadian Personal and Commercial Banking and U.S. Personal and Commercial Banking. Canadian Personal and Commercial Banking Canadian Personal and Commercial Banking (“Canadian P&C”) serves personal and commercial banking customers through an integrated national network of BMO Bank of Montreal branches, automated banking machines (“ABMs”), telephone, mobile and online banking, along with the expertise of our mortgage specialists and financial planners. Personal banking provides financial solutions for everyday banking, financing, investing, credit cards and creditor insurance needs. Commercial banking provides our small business, medium-sized enterprise and mid-market banking customers with a broad suite of integrated commercial and capital markets products, as well as financial advisory services. U.S. Personal and Commercial Banking U.S. Personal and Commercial Banking (“U.S. P&C”) offers a broad range of products and services to individuals and small and mid-sized business customers. Our retail and small and mid-sized business banking customers are served through our network of BMO Harris Bank branches, call centre, online and mobile banking platforms, and ABMs across eight states. Wealth Management BMO’s group of wealth management businesses serves a full range of client segments from mainstream to ultra-high net worth and institutional, with a broad offering of wealth management products and solutions including insurance products. Wealth Management (“WM”) operates in both Canada and the United States, as well as in select global markets including Asia and Europe. 174 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 BMO Capital Markets BMO Capital Markets (“BMO CM”) provides capital-raising, strategic advisory and risk management, and integrated sales, trading and research services to corporate, institutional, and government clients in Canada, the United States and select international locations. Corporate Services Corporate Services consists of Corporate Units and Technology and Operations (“T&O”). Corporate Units provide enterprise-wide expertise and governance support in a variety of areas, including strategic planning, risk management, finance, legal and compliance, marketing, communications and human resources. T&O manages, maintains and provides governance over information technology, operations services, real estate and sourcing for BMO Financial Group. The costs of Corporate Units and T&O services are largely transferred to the three client operating groups (P&C, WM and BMO CM), and only relatively minor amounts are retained in Corporate Services results. As such, Corporate Services operating results largely reflect the impact of certain asset-liability management activities, the elimination of taxable equivalent adjustments, the results from certain impaired asset portfolios, the recovery of credit losses on the M&I purchased credit impaired loan portfolio, credit-related items on the M&I purchased performing loan portfolio, run-off structured credit activities, M&I integration costs, adjustments to the collective allowance for credit losses and restructuring costs. Basis of Presentation The results of these operating groups are based on our internal financial reporting systems. The accounting policies used in these segments are generally consistent with those followed in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements as disclosed in Note 1 and throughout the consolidated financial statements. A notable accounting measurement difference is the taxable equivalent basis adjustment as described below. Taxable Equivalent Basis We analyze net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis (“teb”) at the operating group level. This basis includes an adjustment which increases reported revenues and the reported provision for income taxes by an amount that would raise revenues on certain tax-exempt securities to a level that incurs tax at the statutory rate. The operating groups’ teb adjustments are eliminated in Corporate Services. Inter-Group Allocations Various estimates and allocation methodologies are used in the preparation of the operating groups’ financial information. We allocate expenses directly related to earning revenue to the groups that earned the related revenue. Expenses not directly related to earning revenue, such as overhead expenses, are allocated to operating groups using allocation formulas applied on a consistent basis. Operating group net interest income reflects internal funding charges and credits on the groups’ assets, liabilities and capital, at market rates, taking into account relevant terms and currency considerations. The offset of the net impact of these charges and credits is reflected in Corporate Services. Effective 2013, we changed the way we evaluate our operating groups to reflect the provision for credit losses on an actual loss basis. The change in allocation methodology enhances the assessment of performance against our peer group. Previously, provisions for credit losses were allocated to each group based on an expected losses basis for that group, with the difference between expected losses and actual losses reported in Corporate Services. Prior year results have been restated to reflect this change. Geographic Information We operate primarily in Canada and the United States but we also have operations in the United Kingdom, Europe, the Caribbean and Asia, which are grouped in Other countries. We allocate our results by geographic region based on the location of the unit responsible for managing the related assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, except for the consolidated provision for credit losses, which is allocated based upon the country of ultimate risk. Effective 2013, we refined our methodology for the allocation of revenue in Corporate Services by geographic region. As a consequence, we have reallocated certain revenues reported in prior years from Canada to the United States. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 175 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Our results and average assets, grouped by operating segment and geographic region, are as follows: Canadian U.S. Wealth Corporate United Other (Canadian $ in millions) P&C P&C Management BMO CM Services (1) Total Canada States countries 2013 (2) Net interest income 4,429 2,378 564 1,238 (64) 8,545 5,247 3,222 76 Non-interest revenue 1,912 559 2,890 2,190 167 7,718 5,233 2,093 392 Total Revenue 6,341 2,937 3,454 3,428 103 16,263 10,480 5,315 468 Provision for credit losses 574 223 3 (36) (175) 589 656 (65) (2) Amortization 164 172 81 45 250 712 425 274 13 Non-interest expense 3,086 1,668 2,259 2,004 568 9,585 5,784 3,527 274 Income before taxes and non-controlling interest in subsidiaries 2,517 874 1,111 1,415 (540) 5,377 3,615 1,579 183 Provision for income taxes 663 278 277 321 (410) 1,129 690 443 (4) Reported net income 1,854 596 834 1,094 (130) 4,248 2,925 1,136 187 Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries – – – – 65 65 54 11 – Net Income attributable to bank shareholders 1,854 596 834 1,094 (195) 4,183 2,871 1,125 187 Average Assets 177,749 64,277 22,143 247,578 43,935 555,682 345,737 189,693 20,252 Goodwill (As at) 142 2,703 849 199 – 3,893 466 3,312 115 2012 (2) (3) Net interest income 4,365 2,456 561 1,191 235 8,808 5,259 3,495 54 Non-interest revenue 1,847 568 2,344 2,085 478 7,322 4,909 1,961 452 Total Revenue 6,212 3,024 2,905 3,276 713 16,130 10,168 5,456 506 Provision for credit losses 615 274 22 6 (152) 765 634 134 (3) Amortization 153 191 67 39 253 703 403 292 8 Non-interest expense 3,030 1,710 2,152 1,917 726 9,535 5,690 3,617 228 Income before taxes and non-controlling interest in subsidiaries 2,414 849 664 1,314 (114) 5,127 3,441 1,413 273 Provision for income taxes 639 269 140 293 (403) 938 578 367 (7) Reported net income 1,775 580 524 1,021 289 4,189 2,863 1,046 280 Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries – – 1 – 73 74 55 19 – Net Income attributable to bank shareholders 1,775 580 523 1,021 216 4,115 2,808 1,027 280 Average Assets 162,019 61,534 20,354 251,562 48,795 544,264 332,882 190,801 20,581 Goodwill (As at) 122 2,593 808 194 – 3,717 447 3,177 93 2011 (2) (3) Net interest income 4,381 1,653 462 1,229 (251) 7,474 5,304 2,120 50 Non-interest revenue 1,807 348 2,130 2,086 98 6,469 4,779 1,445 245 Total Revenue 6,188 2,001 2,592 3,315 (153) 13,943 10,083 3,565 295 Provision for credit losses 664 359 10 32 147 1,212 669 534 9 Amortization 143 113 43 28 211 538 364 169 5 Non-interest expense 2,990 1,119 1,913 1,868 313 8,203 5,469 2,531 203 Income before taxes and non-controlling interest in subsidiaries 2,391 410 626 1,387 (824) 3,990 3,581 331 78 Provision for income taxes 676 151 146 412 (509) 876 810 64 2 Reported net income 1,715 259 480 975 (315) 3,114 2,771 267 76 Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries – – – – 73 73 54 19 – Net Income attributable to bank shareholders 1,715 259 480 975 (388) 3,041 2,717 248 76 Average Assets 153,782 40,166 17,483 216,306 42,197 469,934 302,745 145,630 21,559 Goodwill (As at) 122 2,545 791 191 – 3,649 448 3,108 93 (1) Corporate Services includes Technology and Operations. (2) Operating groups report on a taxable equivalent basis – see Basis of Presentation section. (3) Comparative periods have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. Notes 176 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Note 27: Related Party Transactions Related parties include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, key management personnel and employee future benefit plans. Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and/or controlling the activities of an entity, being the directors and nine most senior executives in 2013 (nine in 2012). Key Management Personnel Compensation The following table presents the compensation of key management personnel. (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Base salary and incentives 15 14 Share-based payments (1) 22 23 Total key management personnel compensation 37 37 Excluded from the table above are post-employment benefits of $2 million in 2013 and 2012. Termination benefits and other long-term benefits were $nil in 2013 and 2012. (1) Amounts
 included in share-based payments
 are the fair
 values
 of awards granted in
 the
 year. We provide certain banking services and loans to our key management personnel at market terms and conditions. Loans to key management personnel totalled $3 million and $2 million as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Interest on these loans was less than $1 million in the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012. None of the loans or mortgages to key management personnel are at preferred rates. Deferred Share Units Members of our Board of Directors are required to take 100% of their annual retainers and other fees in the form of either our common shares (purchased on the open market) or deferred share units until such time as the directors’ shareholdings are greater than eight times their annual retainers as directors. Directors receive a specified amount of their annual retainer fee in either common shares or deferred share units. They may elect to take all or part of the remainder of the retainer fee in cash, or in additional common shares or deferred share units. Deferred share units granted under these deferred share unit plans are adjusted to reflect dividends and changes in the market value of our common shares. The value of these deferred share units is paid upon termination of service as a director. Liabilities related to these plans are recorded in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and totalled $37 million and $31 million as at October 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Members of the Board of Directors of our wholly owned subsidiary, BMO Financial Corp., are required to take a specified minimum amount of their annual retainers and other fees in the form of deferred share units. Joint Ventures and Associates We provide banking services to our joint ventures and associates on the same terms that we offer to our customers for these services. Our common share investment in a joint venture of which we own 50% totalled $125 million as at October 31, 2013 ($442 million in 2012). Our investments in associates over which we exert significant influence totalled $225 million as at October 31, 2013 ($291 million in 2012). Employees A select suite of customer loan and mortgage products is offered to employees at rates normally accorded to preferred customers. We also offer employees a fee-based subsidy on annual credit card fees. Note 28: Provisions and Contingent
 Liabilities
(a) Provisions Provisions are recognized when we have an obligation as a result of past events, such as contractual commitments, legal or other obligations. We recognized as a provision the best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation as of the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligations. Contingent liabilities are potential obligations that may arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events not wholly within our control. Contingent liabilities are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements. Changes in the provision balance during the year are as follows: (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Balance at beginning of year 237 142 Additional provisions/increase in provisions 138 263 Provisions utilized (150) (136) Amounts reversed (15) (32) Exchange differences and other movements (1) – Balance at end of year 209 237 (b) Legal Proceedings BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc., an indirect subsidiary of the bank, has been named as a defendant in several individual actions and proposed class actions in Canada and the United States brought on behalf of shareholders of Bre-X Minerals Ltd. Many of the actions have been resolved as to BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc., including two during the year ended October 31, 2010. Management believes that there are strong defenses to the remaining claims and will vigorously defend them. The bank and its subsidiaries are party to other legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations, in the ordinary course of business. While there is inherent difficulty in predicting the outcome of these proceedings, management does not expect the outcome of any of these other proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or the results of operations of the bank. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 177 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 (c) Collateral When entering into trading activities such as purchases under resale agreements, securities borrowing and lending activities or financing and derivative transactions, we require our counterparties to provide us with collateral that will protect us from losses in the event of the counterparty’s default. The fair value of collateral that we are permitted to sell or repledge (in the absence of default by the owner of the collateral) was $38,606 million as at October 31, 2013 ($31,972 million in 2012). The fair value of collateral that we have sold or repledged was $24,795 million as at October 31, 2013 ($26,228 million in 2012). Collateral transactions (received or pledged) are typically conducted under terms that are usual and customary in standard trading activities. If there is no default, the securities or their equivalents must be returned to or returned by the counterparty at the end of the contract. (d) Pledged Assets In the normal course of our business, we pledge assets as security for various liabilities that we incur. The following tables summarize our pledged assets, to whom they are pledged and in relation to what activity: (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Cash and Securities Issued or guaranteed by Canada Issued or guaranteed by a Canadian province, municipality or school corporation Other Mortgages, securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements and other 8,917 4,749 28,421 54,630
 8,813 
4,000 30,512 64,264 Total assets pledged (1) (2) 96,717 107,589 Excludes restricted cash resources disclosed in Note 2. (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Assets pledged to: Clearing systems, payment systems and depositories 1,449 1,150 Bank of Canada 2,303 2,415 Foreign governments and central banks 2 2 Assets pledged in relation to: Obligations related to securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements 17,121 28,155 Securities borrowing and lending 23,819 19,215 Derivatives transactions 9,676 9,089 Securitization 26,435 28,676 Covered bonds 7,604 11,302 Other 8,308 7,585 Total assets pledged (1) (2) 96,717 107,589 Excludes cash pledged with central banks disclosed as restricted cash in Note 2.Excludes collateral received that has been sold or repledged as disclosed in the collateral sectionof this note.(1) Excludes rehypothecated assets of $4,500 million ($7,370 million in 2012) pledged inrelation to securities borrowing transactions.(2) Includes assets pledged in order to participate in clearing and payment systems anddepositories or to have access to the facilities of central banks in foreign jurisdictions.(e) Other Commitments As a participant in merchant banking activities, we enter into commitments to fund external private equity funds and investments in equity and debt securities at market value at the time the commitments are drawn. In addition, we act as underwriter for certain new issuances under which we alone or together with a syndicate of financial institutions purchase the new issue for resale to investors. In connection with these activities, our related commitments were $4,280 million as at October 31, 2013 ($3,280 million in 2012). Note 29: Fair Value of Financial
 InstrumentsWe record trading assets and liabilities, derivatives, available-for-sale securities and securities sold but not yet purchased at fair value, and other non-trading assets and liabilities at amortized cost less allowances or write-downs for impairment. The fair values in this note are based upon the estimated amounts for individual assets and liabilities and do not include an estimate of the fair value of any of the legal entities or underlying operations that comprise our business. Fair value amounts disclosed represent point-in-time estimates that may change in subsequent reporting periods due to market conditions or other factors. Fair value represents our estimate of the amounts for which we could exchange our financial instruments with willing third parties who were interested in acquiring the instruments. Some financial instruments are not typically exchangeable or exchanged and therefore it is difficult to determine their fair value. Where there is no quoted market price, we determine fair value using management’s best estimates based on a range of valuation techniques and assumptions; since they involve uncertainties, the fair values may not be realized in an actual sale or immediate settlement of the instruments. Financial Instruments Whose Book Value Approximates Fair Value Fair value is assumed to equal book value for acceptance-related assets and liabilities, due to the short-term nature of these assets and liabilities. Fair value is also assumed to equal book value for our cash resources, certain other assets and certain other liabilities. Securities For traded securities, quoted market value is considered to be fair value. Quoted market value is based on bid prices. Securities for which no active market exists are valued using all reasonably available market information. Our fair value methodologies are described below. Government Securities The fair value of government issued or guaranteed debt securities in active markets is determined by reference to recent transaction prices, broker quotes or third-party vendor prices. The fair value of securities that are not traded in an active market are modelled using implied yields derived from the prices of actively traded similar government securities and observable spreads. Market inputs to the model include coupon, maturity and duration. Mortgage-Backed Securities and Collateralized Mortgage Obligations The fair value of mortgage-backed securities
 and
 collateralized mortgage obligations is determined by obtaining independent
 prices from third-party vendors, broker
 quotes
 and
 relevant market indices, as applicable. If such prices are not available, fair value is
 determined
 using
 cash flow models
 that make maximum
 use
 of observable
 market
 inputs
 or benchmark
 prices
 to
 similar
 instruments.
 Mortgage-backed security
 and
 collateralized mortgage obligation valuation
 assumptions include
 the discount rates, expected prepayments,
 credit spreads and
 recoveries. Corporate Debt Securities The fair value of corporate debt securities is determined using the most recently executed transaction prices. When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on discounted cash flow models using discounting curves and spreads observed through independent dealers, brokers and multi-contributor pricing sources. Corporate Equity Securities The fair value of equity securities is based on quoted prices in active markets, where available. Where quoted prices in active markets are not readily available, fair value is determined based on quoted market prices for similar securities or through valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis and multiples of earnings. Notes 178 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Privately Issued Securities Privately issued debt and equity securities are valued using recent market transactions, where available. Otherwise, fair value is derived from valuation models using a market or income approach. These models consider various factors, including projected cash flows, earnings, revenue and other third-party evidence as available. The fair value of limited partnership investments is based upon net asset values published by third-party fund managers. Prices from brokers and multi-contributor pricing sources are corroborated as part of our independent review process, which may include using valuation techniques or obtaining consensus or composite prices from other pricing services. We validate the estimates of fair value by independently obtaining multiple quotes of external market prices and input values. We review the approach taken by third-party vendors to ensure that the vendor employs a valuation model which maximizes the use of observable inputs such as benchmark yields, bid-ask spreads, underlying collateral, weighted-average terms to maturity and prepayment rate assumptions. Fair value estimates from internal valuation techniques are verified, where possible, by reference to prices obtained from third-party vendors. Loans In determining the fair value of our fixed rate and floating rate performing loans and customers’ liability under acceptances, we discount the remaining contractual cash flows, adjusted for estimated prepayment, at market interest rates currently offered for loans with similar terms. The value of our loan balances determined using this approach is further adjusted by a credit mark that represents an estimate of the expected credit losses in our loan portfolio. Derivative Instruments A number of well-established valuation techniques are employed to estimate fair value, including discounted cash flow analysis, the Black-Scholes model, Monte Carlo simulation and other accepted market models. These vetted models incorporate current market measures for interest rates, currency exchange rates, equity and commodity prices and indices, credit spreads, recovery rates, corresponding market volatility levels, spot prices, correlation levels and other market-based pricing factors. Option implied volatilities, an input into many valuation models, are either obtained directly from market sources or calculated from market prices. Multi-contributor pricing sources are used wherever possible. In determining the fair value of complex and customized derivatives, we consider all reasonably available information, including dealer and broker quotations, multi-contributor pricing sources and any relevant observable market inputs. Our model calculates fair value based on inputs specific to the type of contract, which may include stock prices, correlation for multiple assets, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, yield curves and volatilities. We calculate a credit valuation adjustment (“CVA”) to recognize the risk that any given derivative counterparty may not ultimately be able to fulfill its obligations. The CVA is derived from market-observed credit spreads or proxy credit spreads and our assessment of the net counterparty credit risk exposure, taking into account credit mitigants such as collateral, master netting arrangements and settlements through clearing houses. Deposits In determining the fair value of our deposits, we incorporate the following assumptions: ‰ For fixed rate, fixed maturity deposits, we discount the remaining contractual cash flows for these deposits, adjusted for expected redemptions, at market interest rates currently offered for deposits with similar terms and risks. ‰ For fixed rate deposits with no defined maturities, we consider fair value to equal book value, based on book value being equivalent to the amount payable on the reporting date. ‰ For floating rate deposits, changes in interest rates have minimal impact on fair value since deposits reprice to market frequently. On that basis, fair value is assumed to equal book value. A portion of our structured note liabilities that have coupons or repayment terms linked to the performance of interest rates, foreign currencies, commodities or equity securities have been designated at fair value through profit or loss. The fair value of these structured notes is estimated using internally vetted valuation models and incorporates observable market prices for identical or comparable securities, and other inputs such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and foreign exchange rates, where appropriate. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, management judgment is required to determine the fair value by assessing other relevant sources of information such as historical data and proxy information from similar transactions. Securities Sold But Not Yet Purchased The fair value of these obligations is based on the fair value of the underlying securities, which can include equity or debt securities. As these obligations are fully collateralized, the method used to determine fair value would be the same as that used for the relevant underlying equity or debt securities. Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Lent or Sold Under Repurchase Agreements The fair value of these agreements is determined using a standard discounted cash flow model. Inputs to the model include contractual cash flows and collateral funding spreads. Securitization Liabilities The determination of the fair value of securitization liabilities, recorded in other liabilities, is based on quoted market prices or quoted market prices for similar financial instruments, where available. Where quoted prices are not available, fair value is determined using valuation techniques, which maximize the use of observable inputs and assumptions such as discounted cash flows. Subordinated Debt and Capital Trust Securities The fair value of our subordinated debt and capital trust securities is determined by referring to current market prices for similar instruments. Set out in the following table are the amounts that would be reported if all of our financial instrument assets and liabilities were reported at their fair values. Certain assets and liabilities, including goodwill, intangible assets and total equity, are not considered financial instruments and are therefore not fair valued in the following table. Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 179 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Fair value Fair value Book value Fair value over (under) book value Book value Fair value over (under) book value Assets Cash and cash equivalents Interest bearing deposits with banks Securities 
Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements Loans 26,083 6,518 134,981 39,799 26,083 6,518 135,204
 39,799 – – 223 – 19,941 6,341 128,324 47,011 19,941 6,341 128,492 47,011 – – 168 – Residential mortgages Consumer instalment and other personal Credit cards Businesses and governments 99,328 
63,640 7,870 101,450 98,910
 62,770 7,619 100,176
 (418)
 (870) (251) (1,274)
 87,870 
61,436 7,814 90,402 88,417 
61,014 7,573 89,076 547 (422) (241) (1,326) Customers’
 liability under acceptances Allowance for credit losses (1) 272,288 8,472 (1,665) 269,475 8,437 – (2,813) (35) 1,665 247,522 8,019 (1,706) 246,080 7,966 – (1,442) (53) 1,706 Total loans and customers’ liability under acceptances, net of allowance for credit losses Derivative instruments Premises and equipment Goodwill 
Intangible assets Current tax assets Deferred tax assets Other assets 279,095 30,259 2,191 
3,893 
1,530 
1,065 
2,914 
8,971 277,912 30,259 2,191 
3,893 
1,530 
1,065 
2,914 
8,971 (1,183) – – 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 253,835 48,071 2,120 
3,717 
1,552 
1,293 
2,906 10,338 254,046 48,071 2,120 
3,717 
1,552 
1,293 
2,906 10,338 211 – – 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 537,299 536,339
 (960)
 525,449 525,828 379 Liabilities 
Deposits 
Derivative instruments Acceptances 
Securities sold but not yet purchased Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements Current tax liabilities 366,821 31,974 8,472 22,446 
28,884 443 366,973 31,974 8,472 22,446 
28,884 443 152 – – – 
– – 323,702 48,736 8,019 23,439 
39,737 404 323,949 48,736 8,019 23,439 
39,737 404 247 – – – 
– – Deferred tax liabilities 107 107 – 171 171 – Other liabilities Subordinated debt Capital trust securities Shareholders’ equity 42,212 3,996 463 31,481 42,490 4,217 616 31,481 278 221 
153 – 46,596 4,093 462 30,090 47,111 4,297 636 30,090 515 204 
174 – 537,299 538,103 804 525,449 526,589 1,140 Total fair value adjustment (1,764)
 (761) (1) The allowance for credit losses is excluded from the calculation of the fair value of loans since the fair value already includes an adjustment for expected future losses on the loans. Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. 180 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Fair Value Hierarchy We use a fair value hierarchy to categorize the inputs we use in market information as inputs (Level 3) in the valuation of securities, fair valuation techniques to measure fair value. The extent of our use of value liabilities, derivative assets and derivative liabilities was as quoted market prices (Level 1), internal models using observable market follows: information as inputs (Level 2) and internal models without observable (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 2012 Valued using Valued using Valued using Valued using Valued using models (with models (without Valued using models (with models (without quoted market observable observable quoted market observable observable prices inputs) inputs) prices inputs) inputs) Trading Securities Issued or guaranteed by: Canadian federal government 9,913 911 – 9,675 1,232 – Canadian provincial and municipal governments 1,988 3,723 – 2,615 2,827 73 U.S. federal government 5,903 – – 7,052 – – U.S. states, municipalities and agencies – 681 78 204 165 78 Other governments 132 4 – 521 – – Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations 165 487 – 361 777 372 Corporate debt 2,800 7,465 822 3,871 9,117 1,331 Corporate equity 28,073 12,014 – 19,822 10,016 – 48,974 25,285 900 44,121 24,134 1,854 Available-for-Sale Securities Issued or guaranteed by: Canadian federal government 13,111 4 – 17,277 – – Canadian provincial and municipal governments 1,941 1,757 – 2,080 600 – U.S. federal government 4,660 – – 10,099 – – U.S. states, municipalities and agencies 3 5,388 1 85 4,368 9 Other governments 3,992 2,171 – 5,388 1,208 – Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations 1,901 6,904 – 3,140 3,068 – Corporate debt 5,340 4,306 30 5,214 2,619 42 Corporate equity 460 149 949 106 137 942 31,408 20,679 980 43,389 12,000 993 Other Securities – – 488 128 – 526 Fair Value Liabilities Securities sold but not yet purchased 20,024 2,422 – 22,729 710 – Structured note liabilities and other note liabilities – 6,439 – – 5,896 – Annuity liabilities – 329 – – 317 – 20,024 9,190 – 22,729 6,923 – Derivative Assets Interest rate contracts 7 22,215 – 7 38,180 3 Foreign exchange contracts 9 6,663 – 35 8,010 – Commodity contracts 673 66 – 1,132 100 – Equity contracts 16 520 – 20 342 5 Credit default swaps – 62
 28
 – 200 37 705 29,526 28 1,194 46,832 45 Derivative Liabilities Interest rate contracts 8 21,516 – 7 37,037 20 Foreign exchange contracts 5 6,443 – 9 7,496 2 Commodity contracts 695 138 – 1,463 278 – Equity contracts 70 2,997 – 78 2,146 44 Credit default swaps – 83
 19
 – 154 2 778 31,177 19 1,557 47,111 68 Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation. Valuation Techniques and Significant Inputs We determine the fair value of publicly traded fixed maturity and equity securities using quoted market prices in active markets (Level 1) when these are available. When quoted prices in active markets are not available, we determine the fair value of financial instruments using models such as discounted cash flows, with observable market data for inputs such as yields and prepayment rates or broker quotes and other third-party vendor quotes (Level 2). Fair value may also be determined using models where significant market inputs are not observable due to inactive or minimal market activity (Level 3). We maximize the use of market inputs to the extent possible. Our Level 2 trading securities are primarily valued using discounted cash flow models with observable spreads or based on broker quotes. The fair value of Level 2 available-for-sale securities is determined using discounted cash flow models with observable spreads or third-party vendor quotes. Level 2 structured note liabilities are valued using models with observable market information. Level 2 derivative assets and liabilities are valued using industry-standard models and observable market information. Sensitivity analysis at October 31, 2013 for the most significant Level 3 instruments, that is securities which represent greater than 10% of Level 3 instruments, is provided below. We have no mortgage-backed securities or collateralized mortgage obligations within Level 3 trading securities at October 31, 2013. The fair value of these securities is determined by using benchmarking to similar Notes BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 181 Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 instruments and by obtaining independent prices from third-party vendors, broker quotes and relevant market indices, as applicable. Where external price data is not available, we assess the collateral performance in assessing the fair value of the securities. Within Level 3 trading securities is corporate debt of $800 million related to securities which are hedged with total return swaps and credit default swaps that are also considered a Level 3 instrument. The sensitivity analysis for these structured products is performed on an aggregate basis and is described in the discussion of derivatives below. Within Level 3 available-for-sale securities is corporate equity of $557 million related to U.S. Federal Reserve Banks and U.S. Federal Home Loan Banks that we hold to meet regulatory requirements in the United States and $392 million related to private equity investments. The valuation of these investments requires management judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the potential lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. Each quarter, the valuation of these investments is reviewed using relevant company-specific and industry data, including historical and projected net income, credit and liquidity conditions and recent transactions, if any. Since the valuation of these investments does not involve models, a sensitivity analysis for the category is not performed. Within derivative assets and derivative liabilities as at October 31, 2013 was $28 million and $19 million related to the mark-to-market of credit default swaps, on structured products. We have determined the valuation of these derivatives and the related securities based on external price data obtained from brokers and dealers for similar structured products. Where external price information is not available, we use market-standard models to model the specific collateral composition and cash flow structure of the deal. Key inputs to the models are market spread data for each credit rating, collateral type and other relevant contractual features. The impact of assuming a 10 basis point increase or decrease in the market spread would result in a change in fair value of $(1) million and $1 million, respectively. Significant Transfers Transfers are made between the various fair value hierarchy levels due to changes in the availability of quoted market prices or observable market inputs that result from changing market conditions. The following is a discussion of the significant transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 balances for the years ended October 31, 2013 and 2012. During the year ended October 31, 2013, $28 million of trading Canadian provincial and municipal securities, $29 million of available-for-sale corporate debt securities, and $4 million of available-for-sale corporate equity securities were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 as observable inputs became available. In addition, $17 million of trading mortgage-backed securities were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 as a result of fewer available prices for these securities during the year. During the year ended October 31, 2013, derivative liabilities of $62 million were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2, as market information became available for certain over-the-counter equity contracts. During the year ended October 31, 2012, $24 million of available-for-sale corporate debt securities, $12 million of trading corporate debt securities and $14 million of trading mortgage-backed securities were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2, as values for these securities are now obtained through a third-party vendor and are based on market prices. In addition, $105 million of trading mortgage-backed securities and $18 million of trading corporate debt securities were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 as a result of fewer available prices for these securities during the year. During the year ended October 31, 2012, derivative liabilities of $9 million were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2, as market information became available for certain over-the-counter equity contracts. 182 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Changes in Level 3 Fair Value Measurements The table below presents a reconciliation of all changes in Level 3 financial instruments during the year ended October 31, 2013, including realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings and other comprehensive income. Change in fair value Included in other Fair value For the year ended October 31, 2013 (Canadian $ in millions) Balance, October 31, 2012 Included in earnings compre;hensive income Purchases Sales Maturities (1) Transfers into Level 3 Transfers out of Level 3 as at October 31, 2013 Unrealized gains (losses) (2) Trading Securities Issued or guaranteed by: Canadian provincial and municipal governments 73 1 – –(46)
 – –(28)
 – – U.S. states, municipalities and agencies 78 ––
 ––
 –––78
 – Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations 372 28 – –(378)
 (39)17
 – – – Corporate debt 1,331 42 – 3(227)
 (327) – – 822 39 Total trading securities 1,854 71 – 3 (651) (366) 17 (28) 900 39 Available-for-Sale Securities Issued or guaranteed by: U.S. states, municipalities and agencies 9 – – – (8) – – – 1 – Corporate debt 42 – 2 27 (10) (2) – (29) 30 1 Corporate equity 942 (19) 46 119 (135) – – (4) 949 44 Total available-for-sale securities 993 (19) 48 146 (153) (2) – (33) 980 45 Other Securities 526 14 – 86 (138) – – – 488 9 Derivative Assets Interest rate contracts 3 (3)–
 ––
 –––
 –(3)
 Equity contracts 5 ––
 –(1)
 ––(4)
 – – Credit default swaps 37 (9)–
 ––
 –––28(9)
 Total derivative assets 45 (12) – – (1) – – (4) 28 (12) Derivative Liabilities Interest rate contracts Equity contracts Foreign exchange contracts Credit default swaps 20 44 2 
2 (20) 15 – 17 – 
– – – – 
– – – – (3) – – – 
– – – – 6 – – – (62) (2) – – 
– – 19 20 – – (17) Total derivative liabilities 68 12 – – (3) – 6 (64) 19 3 (1) Includes cash settlement of derivative assets and derivative liabilities. (2) Unrealized gains or losses on trading securities, derivative assets and derivative liabilities held on October 31, 2013 are included in earnings in the year. For available-for-sale securities, the unrealized gains or losses on securities held on October 31, 2013 are included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 183 Notes Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 The table below presents a reconciliation of all changes in Level 3 financial instruments during the year ended October 31, 2012, including realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings and other comprehensive income. Change in fair value Included in other Fair value Balance, compre-Transfers Transfers as at Unrealized For the year ended October 31, 2012 October 31, Included in hensive into out of October 31, gains (Canadian $ in millions) 2011 earnings income Purchases Sales Maturities (1) Level 3 Level 3 2012 (losses) (2) Trading Securities Issued or guaranteed by: Canadian provincial and municipal governments – 5 – 68 – – – – 73 5 U.S. states, municipalities and agencies – 3 – 75 – – – – 78 3 Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations 494 12 – – (167) (58) 105 (14) 372 11 Corporate debt 1,485 35 – 20 (214) (1) 18 (12) 1,331 38 Total trading securities 1,979 55 – 163 (381) (59) 123 (26) 1,854 57 Available-for-Sale Securities Issued or guaranteed by: U.S. states, municipalities and agencies 25 – (1) – – (16) 1 – 9 (3) Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations – – – – – – – – – – Corporate debt 62 – 5 25 (8) (18) – (24) 42 6 Corporate equity 1,011 (3) 15 148 (217) (12) – – 942 15 Total available-for-sale securities 1,098 (3) 19 173 (225) (46) 1 (24) 993 18 Other Securities 493 10 – 102 (79) – – – 526 10 Derivative Assets Interest rate contracts 167 (6) – – – (158) – – 3 (6) Equity contracts 6 (1) – 1 – (1) – – 5 (1) Credit default swaps 67 (35) – 5 – – – – 37 (35) Total derivative assets 240 (42) – 6 – (159) – – 45 (42) Derivative Liabilities Interest rate contracts 38 (23) – 5 – – – – 20 23 Equity contracts 65 27 – 1 (35) (5) – (9) 44 (7) Foreign exchange contracts – 2 – – – – – – 2 (2) Credit default swaps 2 – – – – – – – 2 – Total derivative liabilities 105 6 – 6 (35) (5) – (9) 68 14 (1) Includes cash settlement of derivative assets and derivative liabilities. securities, the unrealized gains or losses on securities held on October 31, 2012 are included (2) Unrealized gains or losses on trading securities, derivative assets and derivative liabilities in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. held on October 31, 2012 are included in earnings in the year. For available-for-sale 184 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Note 30: Contractual Maturities
 of Assets
 and Liabilities
 and
 Off-Balance Sheet Commitments The tables below show the remaining contractual maturity of on-balance sheet assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments. The contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities is an input to, but is not necessarily consistent with the expected maturity of assets and liabilities that is used in the management of liquidity and funding risk. We forecast asset and liability cash flows under both normal market conditions and under a number of stress scenarios to manage liquidity and funding risk. Stress scenarios include assumptions for loan (Canadian $ in millions) repayments, deposit withdrawals, and credit
 commitment
 and
 liquidity facility drawdowns
 by counterparty and product
 type. Stress
 scenarios
 also consider the time
 horizon over which liquid assets
 can be
 monetized
 and the
 related haircuts and
 potential collateral
 requirements that
 may
 occur due
 to both market volatility and
 credit rating downgrades amongst other assumptions.
 For further
 details, see
 the Liquidity
 and Funding
 Risk section on
 page
 92 to
 94 of
 our
 2013 Annual Report. 2013 0to1
 1to3
 3to6
 6to9
 9to12
 1to2
 2to5
 Over 5 No month months months months months years years years maturity Total On-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments Assets Cash and cash equivalents 25,317 – – – – – – – 766
 26,083 Interest bearing deposits with banks 4,592 1,295 471 84 76 – – – – 6,518 Securities Trading securities 1,209 1,284 480 1,521 442 4,781 10,593 14,762 40,087 75,159 Available-for-sale securities 1,385 3,628 1,439 2,076 2,820 6,729 22,170 11,262
 1,558
 53,067 Held-to-maturity securities – – – – – 562
 4,864 606
 – 6,032 Other securities – – 18 – – 3 34 17 651 723 Total securities 2,594 4,912 1,937 3,597 3,262 12,075
 37,661 26,647
 42,296
 134,981 Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 26,421 9,627 2,949 597 205 – – – – 39,799 Loans Residential mortgages 1,026 1,362 2,866 4,769 4,082 17,922 58,035 9,266 – 99,328 Consumer instalment and other personal 323 294 643 890 834 4,730 23,285 9,636 23,005 63,640 Credit cards – – – – – – – – 7,870 7,870 Businesses and governments 5,824 8,264 4,940 3,834 8,684 9,215 29,170 4,977 26,542 101,450 Customers’ liability under acceptances 4,883 3,037 552 – – – – – – 8,472 Allowance for credit losses – – – – – – – – (1,665) (1,665) Total loans and acceptances, net of allowance 12,056 12,957 9,001 9,493 13,600 31,867 110,490 23,879 55,752 279,095 Other Assets Derivative instruments Interest rate contracts 39 98 193 319 260 2,423 8,598 10,292 – 22,222 Foreign exchange contracts 685 665 605 244 149 1,608 1,515 1,201 – 6,672 Commodity contracts 50 79 119 96 75 179 99 42 – 739 Equity contracts 100 82 50 61 69 66 106 2 – 536 Credit contracts – 1 2 4 2 5 56
 20
 – 90
 Total derivative assets 874 925 969 724 555 4,281 10,374 11,557 – 30,259 Premises and equipment – – – – – – – – 2,191 2,191 Goodwill – – – – – – – – 3,893 3,893 Intangible assets – – – – – – – – 1,530 1,530 Current tax assets – – – – – – – – 1,065 1,065 Deferred tax assets – – – – – – – – 2,914 2,914 Other 2,202 148 137 – – – 14 3,624 2,846 8,971 Total other assets 3,076 1,073 1,106 724 555 4,281 10,388 15,181 14,439 50,823 Total Assets 74,056 29,864 15,464 14,495 17,698 48,223
 158,539 65,707
 113,253
 537,299 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 185 Notes Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 0to1
 1to3
 3to6
 6to9
 9to12
 1to2
 2to5
 Over 5 No month months months months months years years years maturity Total Liabilities and Equity Deposits (1) Banks 10,241 3,733 140 231 563 – – – 5,683 20,591 Businesses and governments 26,265 29,217 10,490 6,149 5,547 13,970 30,597 6,959 91,604 220,798 Individuals 2,253 3,761 5,203 4,618 5,513 7,228 11,450 1,526 83,880 125,432 Total deposits 38,759 36,711 15,833 10,998 11,623 21,198 42,047 8,485 181,167 366,821 Other Liabilities Derivative instruments Interest rate contracts 56 112 246 365 314 2,370 8,174 9,887 – 21,524 Foreign exchange contracts 472 931 658 251 156 1,462 1,619 899 – 6,448 Commodity contracts 56 91 98 92 93 241 124 38 – 833 Equity contracts 119 173 241 91 143 841 851 608 – 3,067 Credit contracts – 1 1 2 5 14
 60
 19
 – 102
 Total derivative liabilities 703 1,308 1,244 801 711 4,928 10,828 11,451 – 31,974 Acceptances 4,883 3,037 552 – – – – – – 8,472 Securities sold but not yet purchased 22,446 – – – – – – – – 22,446 Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements 24,483 2,953 1,448 – – – – – – 28,884 Current tax liabilities – – – – – – – – 443
 443
 Deferred tax liabilities – – – – – – – – 107
 107
 Securitization and SPE liabilities 1,222 1,481 998 – 318 3,295 10,395 4,653 – 22,362 Other 7,130 140 18 6 26 427 3,205 1,946 6,952 19,850 Total other liabilities 60,867 8,919 4,260 807 1,055 8,650 24,428 18,050 7,502 134,538 Subordinated debt – – – – – – 100
 3,896 – 3,996 Capital trust securities – – – – – – – 463
 – 463
 Total Equity – – – – – – – – 31,481 31,481 Total Liabilities and Equity 99,626 45,630 20,093 11,805 12,678 29,848 66,575 30,894 220,150 537,299 (1) Deposits payable on demand and payable after notice have been included under no maturity. (Canadian $ in millions) 2013 0to1
 1to3
 3to6
 6to9
 9to12
 1to2
 2to5
 Over 5 No month months months months months years years years maturity Total Off-Balance Sheet Commitments Commitments to extend credit (2) 1,169 907 3,246 3,935 3,850 13,381 42,477 2,570 – 71,535 Operating leases 25 46 69 69 69 262 618 640 – 1,798 Financial guarantee contracts (2) 4,778 – – – – – – – – 4,778 Purchase obligations 71 141 211 216 207 729 1,115 275 – 2,965 (2) A large majority of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. As a result, the total contractual amounts may not be representative of the funding
 likely to be required for these commitments. 186 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 (Canadian $ in millions) 2012 0to
 1 1to
 3 3to
 6 6to
 9 9to
 12
 1to
 2 2to
 5 Over 5 No month months months months months years years years maturity Total On-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments Assets Cash and cash equivalents 19,162 – – – – – – – 779
 19,941 Interest bearing deposits with banks 5,146 902 293 – – – – – – 6,341 Securities Trading securities 1,122 2,550 1,995 837 2,138 5,103 10,647 15,879 29,838 70,109 Available-for-sale securities 1,555 2,200 2,851 5,782 1,600 12,790 19,718 8,701 1,185 56,382 Held-to-maturity securities – – – – – – 376
 499
 – 875
 Other securities – 45 – – – 22
 56
 17
 818
 958
 Total securities 2,677 4,795 4,846 6,619 3,738 17,915 30,797 25,096 31,841 128,324 Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements 41,229 2,878 2,282 622 – – – – – 47,011 Loans Residential mortgages 843 863 1,617 2,135 2,081 15,966 56,143 8,222 – 87,870 Consumer instalment and other personal 419 160 287 464 2,079 3,377 23,936 7,775 22,939 61,436 Credit cards – – – – – – – – 7,814 7,814 Businesses and governments 4,344 5,234 3,973 2,656 10,541 8,679 21,740 4,593 28,642 90,402 Customers’ liability under acceptances 5,227 2,792 – – – – – – – 8,019 Allowance for credit losses – – – – – – – – (1,706) (1,706) Total loans and acceptances, net of allowance 10,833 9,049 5,877 5,255 14,701 28,022 101,819 20,590 57,689 253,835 Other Assets Derivative instruments Interest rate contracts 178 338 354 582 527 2,152 12,929 21,130 – 38,190 Foreign exchange contracts 1,730 912 435 305 138 635 2,417 1,473 – 8,045 Commodity contracts 469 91 91 66 187 163 135 30 – 1,232 Equity contracts 70 70 17 44 11 36 119 – – 367 Credit contracts 1 2 3 4 4 24
 157
 42
 – 237
 Total derivative assets 2,448 1,413 900 1,001 867 3,010 15,757 22,675 – 48,071 Premises and equipment – – – – – – – – 2,120 2,120 Goodwill – – – – – – – – 3,717 3,717 Intangible assets – – – – – – – – 1,552 1,552 Current tax assets – – – – – – – – 1,293 1,293 Deferred tax assets – – – – – – – – 2,906 2,906 Other 2,045 155 34 – – 180 58 3,191 4,675 10,338 Total other assets 4,493 1,568 934 1,001 867 3,190 15,815 25,866 16,263 69,997 Total Assets 83,540 19,192 14,232 13,497 19,306 49,127 148,431 71,552 106,572 525,449 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 187 Notes Notes NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 (Canadian $ in millions) 2012 0to
 1 1to
 3 3to
 6 6to
 9 9to
 12
 1to
 2 2to
 5 Over 5 No month months months months months years years years maturity Total Liabilities and Equity Deposits (1) Banks 10,935 1,655 62 29 14 13 14 – 5,380 18,102 Businesses and governments 21,736 24,843 9,666 5,920 9,477 5,517 23,251 3,316 82,844 186,570 Individuals 4,977 5,043 5,835 6,369 5,501 6,580 7,725 297 76,703 119,030 Total deposits 37,648 31,541 15,563 12,318 14,992 12,110 30,990 3,613 164,927 323,702 Other Liabilities Derivative instruments Interest rate contracts 38 268 441 652 530 2,418 12,861 19,856 – 37,064 Foreign exchange contracts 1,003 1,026 546 362 211 802 2,351 1,206 – 7,507 Commodity contracts 391 180 194 182 281 306 160 47 – 1,741 Equity contracts 244 256 60 72 88 98 722 728 – 2,268 Credit contracts 50 2 4 3 2 18
 71
 6 – 156
 Total derivative liabilities 1,726 1,732 1,245 1,271 1,112 3,642 16,165 21,843 – 48,736 Acceptances 5,227 2,792 – – – – – – – 8,019 Securities sold but not yet purchased 23,439 – – – – – – – – 23,439 Securities lent or sold under repurchase agreements 38,218 1,519 – – – – – – – 39,737 Current tax liabilities – – – – – – – – 404
 404
 Deferred tax liabilities – – – – – – – – 171
 171
 Securitization and SPE liabilities 1,053 1,287 11 1,712 3,424 3,925 10,042 4,028 – 25,482 Other 8,124 99 28 11 200 23 2,197 3,279 7,153 21,114 Total other liabilities 77,787 7,429 1,284 2,994 4,736 7,590 28,404 29,150 7,728 167,102 Subordinated debt – – – – – – 100
 3,993 – 4,093 Capital trust securities – – – – – – – 462
 – 462
 Total Equity – – – – – – – – 30,090 30,090 Total Liabilities and Equity 115,435 38,970 16,847 15,312 19,728 19,700 59,494 37,218 202,745 525,449 (1) Deposits payable on demand and payable after notice have been included under no maturity. (Canadian $ in millions) 2012 0to
 1 1to
 3 3to
 6 6to
 9 9to
 12
 1to
 2 2to
 5 Over 5 No month months months months months years years years maturity Total Off-Balance Sheet Commitments Commitments to extend credit (2) 770 1,076 1,910 1,939 9,734 9,418 33,240 1,898 – 59,985 Operating leases 25 48 69 67 68 262 563 700 – 1,802 Financial guarantee contracts (2) 4,343 – – – – – – – – 4,343 Purchase obligations 59 118 177 101 63 264 539 207 – 1,528 (2) A large majority of these commitments expire without being drawn upon. As a result, the total contractual amounts may not be representative of the funding
 likely to be required for these commitments. 188 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 Principal Subsidiaries Book value of Entities in which the bank owns more than 50% shares owned by the bank of the issued and outstanding voting shares Head or principal office (Canadian $ in millions) Bank of Montreal Assessoria e Serviços Ltda. Rio de Janeiro, Brazil – Bank of Montreal Capital Markets (Holdings) Limited London, England 171 BMO Capital Markets Limited London, England Pyrford International Limited London, England Bank of Montreal (China) Co. Ltd. Beijing, China 272 Bank of Montreal Finance Ltd. Toronto, Canada 30 Bank of Montreal Holding Inc. Calgary, Canada 23,296 BMO Nesbitt Burns Holding Corporation Toronto, Canada BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc. Toronto, Canada BMO Finance Company II Luxembourg, Luxembourg BMO Group Retirement Services Inc. Toronto, Canada BMO Holding Finance, LLC Wilmington, United States BMO Investments Inc. and subsidiary Toronto, Canada BMO Investments Limited Hamilton, Bermuda Bank of Montreal (Barbados) Limited St. Michael, Barbados BMO Reinsurance Limited St. Michael, Barbados BMO InvestorLine Inc. Toronto, Canada BMO Service Inc. Toronto, Canada Bank of Montreal Ireland plc Dublin, Ireland 695 Bank of Montreal Mortgage Corporation Calgary, Canada 2,371 BMO Mortgage Corp. Vancouver, Canada BMRI Realty Investments Toronto, Canada Bay Street Holdings, LLC Chicago, United States 2 BMO Finance Company I Schuttrange, Luxembourg 624 BMO Financial Corp. Chicago, United States 14,047 BMO Asset Management Corp. and subsidiaries Chicago, United States BMO Capital Markets Corp. New York, United States BMO Capital Markets GKST Inc. Chicago, United States BMO Delaware Trust Company Greenville, United States BMO Global Capital Solutions, Inc. Chicago, United States BMO Harris Bank National Association and subsidiaries Chicago, United States BMO Harris Central National Association Roselle, United States BMO Harris Financial Advisors, Inc. Chicago, United States BMO Harris Financing, Inc. and subsidiaries Chicago, United States BMO Investment Financing, Inc. Wilmington, United States BMO Investment Partners Management, LLC and subsidiaries Milwaukee, United States BMO Private Equity (U.S.), Inc. and subsidiaries Chicago, United States Harris Life Insurance Company Scottsdale, United States Harris Trade Services Limited Hong Kong, China M&I Distributors, LLC Milwaukee, United States psps Holdings, LLC and subsidiary Chicago, United States Stoker Ostler Wealth Advisors, Inc. Scottsdale, United States BMO GP Inc. Toronto, Canada 1 BMO Ireland Finance Company Dublin, Ireland 16 BMO Life Insurance Company Toronto, Canada 734 BMO Life Holdings (Canada), ULC Halifax, Canada BMO Life Assurance Company Toronto, Canada BMO Private Equity (Canada) Inc. Toronto, Canada – BMO Nesbitt Burns Employee Co-Investment Fund I Management (Canada) Inc. and subsidiaries Toronto, Canada BMO Trust Company Toronto, Canada 918 BMO (US) Lending, LLC Chicago, United States 339 LGM (Bermuda) Limited Hamilton, Bermuda 106 Lloyd George Investment Management (Bermuda) Limited and subsidiary Hamilton, Bermuda Lloyd George Investment Management (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong, China Lloyd George Management (Europe) Limited London, England Lloyd George Management (Singapore) Pte Ltd. and subsidiary Singapore The book value of the subsidiaries represents the total common and We directly or indirectly own 100% of the outstanding voting shares ofpreferred equity value of our holdings or our partnership interest where the above subsidiaries.appropriate.BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 189 GLOSSARY OF FINANCIAL TERMS 
Glossary of Financial Terms; ;
Adjusted Earnings and Measures 
present results adjusted to exclude 

the impact of certain items as set out 

in the Non-GAAP Measures section. 

Management considers both 

reported and adjusted results to be 

useful in assessing underlying 

ongoing business performance. 
Allowance for Credit Losses 
repre<sents an amount deemed adequate 
by management to absorb credit-

related losses on loans and accept<

ances and other credit instruments. 

Allowances for credit losses can be 

specific or collective and are 

recorded on the balance sheet as a 

deduction from loans and accept<

ances or, as they relate to credit 

instruments, as other liabilities. 

Pages 70, 85, 137 
Assets under Administration and 
under Management 
refers to assets 
administered or managed by a finan<

cial institution that are beneficially 

owned by clients and therefore not 

reported on the balance sheet of the 

administering or managing financial 

institution. Asset-Backed Commercial Paper 
(ABCP) is a short-term investment 
with a maturity that is typically less 

than 180 days. The commercial paper 

is backed by physical assets such as 

trade receivables, and is generally 

used for short-term financing needs. 
Assets-to-Capital Multiple 
reflects total assets, including specified 
off-balance sheet items net of other 

specified deductions, divided by 

total capital. 

Pages 63, 165 
Average Earning Assets 
represents the daily or monthly average balance 
of deposits with other banks and 

loans and securities, over a 

one-year period. 
Bankers’ Acceptances (BAs) 
are bills of exchange or negotiable 
instruments drawn by a borrower for 

payment at maturity and accepted 

by a bank. BAs constitute a 

guarantee of payment by the bank 

and can be traded in the money 

market. The bank earns a “stamping 

fee” for providing this guarantee. 
Basis Point 
is one one-hundredth of 
a percentage point. 

Business Risk 
arises from the 
specific business activities of a 

company and the effects these could 

have on its earnings. 

Page 96 
Collective Allowance 
is maintained 
to cover impairment in the existing 
credit portfolio that cannot yet be 

associated with specific credit assets. 

Our approach to establishing and 

maintaining the collective allowance 

is based on the guideline issued by 
our regulator, OSFI. The collective 

allowance is assessed on a quarterly 

basis and a number of factors are 

considered when determining its 

level, including the long-run 

expected loss amount and manage<

ment’s credit judgment with respect 

to current macroeconomic and 

portfolio conditions. 

Pages 42, 85, 137 
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) 
is comprised of common shareholders’ 
equity less deductions for goodwill, 

intangible assets, pension assets, 

certain deferred tax assets and cer<

tain other items. 
Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio 
reflects CET1, divided by risk-weighted assets. 
Pages 62, 165 
Common Shareholders’ Equity 
is the most permanent form of capital. 
For regulatory capital purposes, 

common shareholders’ equity is 

comprised of common shareholders’ 

equity, net of capital deductions. 
Credit and Counterparty Risk 
is the 
potential for loss due to the failure of 

a borrower, endorser, guarantor or 

counterparty to repay a loan or 

honour another predetermined 

financial obligation. 

Page 82 
Derivatives are contracts whose 
value is “derived” from movements 
in interest or foreign exchange rates, 

equity or commodity prices or other 

indices. Derivatives allow for the 

transfer, modification or reduction of 

current or expected risks from 

changes in rates and prices. 
Dividend Payout Ratio 
represents common share dividends as a per<
centage of net income available to 

common shareholders. It is com<

puted by dividing dividends per 

share by basic earnings per share. 
Earnings Per Share (EPS) 
is calcu<
lated by dividing net income 
attributable to bank shareholders, 

after deduction of preferred share 

dividends, by the average daily 

number of fully paid common shares 

outstanding throughout the year. 

Diluted EPS, which is our basis for 

measuring performance, adjusts for 

possible conversions of financial 

instruments into common shares if 

those conversions would reduce EPS. 

Adjusted EPS is calculated in the 

same manner, using adjusted 

net income. 

Pages 35, 174 
Earnings Sensitivity 
is a measure of 
the impact of potential changes in 
interest rates on the projected 

12-month after-tax net income of a 

portfolio of assets, liabilities and/or 

off-balance sheet positions in 

response to prescribed parallel 

interest rate movements. 

Page 87 
Economic Capital 
is our internal 
assessment of the risks underlying 

BMO’s business activities. It repre<

sents management’s estimate of the 

likely magnitude of economic losses 

that could occur if adverse situations 

arise, and allows returns to be 

measured on a basis that considers 

the risks taken. Economic Capital is 

calculated for various types of risk – 

credit, market (trading and 

non-trading), operational and busi<

ness – where measures are based on 

a time horizon of one year. Economic 

Capital is a key element of our risk-

based capital management and 

ICAAP framework. 

Pages 64, 82 
Economic Value Sensitivity 
is a 
measure of the impact of potential 
changes in interest rates on the 

market value of a portfolio of assets, 

liabilities and off-balance sheet posi<

tions in response to prescribed 

parallel interest rate movements. 

Page 87 
Efficiency Ratio (or Expense-to-
Revenue Ratio) 
is a key measure of 
efficiency. It is calculated as 

non-interest expense divided by total 

revenues, expressed as a percent<

age. The adjusted efficiency ratio is 

calculated in the same manner, 

utilizing adjusted revenues and 

non-interest expense. 
Page 43 
Environmental and Social Risk 
is the risk of loss or damage to BMO’s 
reputation resulting from environ<

mental and social concerns related to 

BMO or its customers. Environmental 

and social risk is often associated 

with credit, operational and reputa<

tion risk. 

Page 99 
Fair Value 
is the amount of consid<
eration that would be agreed upon in 
an arm’s length transaction between 

knowledgeable, willing parties who 

are under no compulsion to act. 
Forwards and Futures 
are con<tractual agreements to either buy or 
sell a specified amount of a currency, 

commodity, interest-rate-sensitive 

financial instrument or security at a 

specific price and date in the future. 

Forwards are customized contracts 

transacted in the over-the-counter 

market. Futures are transacted in 

standardized amounts on regulated 

exchanges and are subject to daily 

cash margining. 

Page 148 
Hedging is a risk management 
technique used to neutralize, 
manage or offset interest rate, for<

eign currency, equity, commodity or 

credit exposures arising from normal 

banking activities. 
Impaired Loans 
are loans for which 
there is no longer reasonable assur<
ance of the timely collection of 
principal or interest. 
Innovative Tier 1 Capital 
is a form 
of Tier 1 capital issued by special 
purpose entities that can be included 

in calculating a bank’s Tier 1 Capital 

Ratio, Total Capital Ratio and 

Assets-to-Capital Multiple. Under 

Basel III, Innovative Tier 1 Capital is 

non-qualifying and is part of the 

grandfathered capital being phased-

out between 2013 and 2022. 
Insurance Risk 
is the risk of loss due 
to actual experience being different 
from that assumed when an 

insurance product was designed and 

priced. It generally entails inherent 

unpredictability that can arise from 

assuming long-term policy liabilities 

or from the uncertainty of future 

events. Insurance risk exists in all our 

insurance businesses, including 

annuities and life, accident and 

sickness, and creditor insurance, as 

well as our reinsurance business. 

Page 95 
Legal and Regulatory Risk 
is the 
risk of not complying with laws, 
contractual agreements or other 

legal requirements, as well as regu<

latory requirements and regulators’ 

expectations. Failure to properly 

manage legal and regulatory risk 

may result in litigation claims, finan<

cial losses, regulatory sanctions, an 

inability to execute our business 

strategies and potential harm to 

our reputation. 

Page 96 
Leverage Ratio 
is defined as Tier 1 
capital divided by the sum of 
on-balance sheet items and specified 

off-balance sheet items net of speci<

fied deductions. 

Page 63 
Liquidity and Funding Risk 
is the 
potential for loss if BMO is unable to 
meet financial commitments in a 

timely manner at reasonable prices 

as they fall due. Financial commit<

ments include liabilities to depositors 

and suppliers, and lending, invest<

ment and pledging commitments. 

Pages 92, 144 
Mark-to-Market represents the 
valuation of financial instruments 
at market rates as of the balance 
sheet date, where required by 

accounting rules. 
Market Risk 
is the potential for 
adverse changes in the value of 
BMO’s assets and liabilities resulting 

from changes in market variables 

such as interest rates, foreign 

exchange rates, equity and 

commodity prices and their implied 

volatilities, and credit spreads, as 

well as the risk of credit migration 

and default. 

Pages 87, 143 
190 BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
   
    
   
  
   
   
    
Model Risk 
is the potential for loss 
due to the risk of a model not per<
forming or capturing risk as 

designed. It also arises from the 

possibility of the use of an 

inappropriate model or the 

inappropriate use of a model. 

Page 96 
Net Economic Profit (NEP) 
repre<
sents net income available to 
common shareholders, before 

deduction for the after-tax impact of 

the amortization of acquisition-

related intangible assets, less a 

charge for capital. Adjusted NEP is 

computed using adjusted net income. 

NEP is considered a reasonable 

measure of added economic 

value. NEP and adjusted NEP are 

non-GAAP measures. 

Page 36 
Net Interest Income 
is comprised of 
earnings on assets, such as loans and 
securities, including interest and 

dividend income and BMO’s share of 

income from investments accounted 

for using the equity method of 

accounting, less interest expense 

paid on liabilities, such as deposits. 

Page 39 
Net Interest Margin 
is the ratio of 
net interest income to average 
earning assets, expressed as a per<

centage or in basis points. Net 

interest margin is sometimes com<

puted using total assets. 

Page 39 
Notional Amount 
refers to the 
principal used to calculate interest 
and other payments under derivative 

contracts. The principal amount does 

not change hands under the terms of 

a derivative contract, except in the 

case of cross-currency swaps. 
Off-Balance Sheet Financial 
Instruments include a variety of 
financial arrangements offered to 

clients, which include credit 

derivatives, written put options, 

backstop liquidity facilities, standby 

letters of credit, performance 

guarantees, credit enhancements, 

commitments to extend credit, secu<

rities lending, documentary and 

commercial letters of credit, and 

other indemnifications. 
Office of the Superintendent of 
Financial Institutions Canada (OSFI) 

is the government agency respon<

sible for regulating banks, insurance 

companies, trust companies, loan 

companies and pension plans 

in Canada. 
Operating Leverage 
is the differ<
ence between revenue and expense 
growth rates. Adjusted operating 

leverage is the difference between 

adjusted revenue and adjusted 

expense growth rates. 
Page 27 
Operational Risk 
is the potential for 
loss resulting from inadequate or 
failed internal processes or systems, 

human interactions or external 

events, but excludes business risk. 

Page 94 
Options are contractual agreements 
that convey to the buyer the right 
but not the obligation to either buy 

or sell a specified amount of a 

currency, commodity, interest-rate<

sensitive financial instrument or 

security at a fixed future date or 

at any time within a fixed 

future period. 

Page 148 
Provision for Credit Losses 
is a 
charge to income that represents an 
amount deemed adequate by 

management to fully provide for 

impairment in a portfolio of loans 

and acceptances and other credit 

instruments, given the composition 

of the portfolio, the probability of 

default, the economic environment 

and the allowance for credit losses 

already established. 

Pages 42, 84, 137 
Reputation Risk 
is the risk of a 
negative impact on BMO that results 
from the deterioration of BMO’s 

reputation. Potential negative 

impacts include revenue loss, 

decline in client loyalty, litigation, 

regulatory sanction or additional 

oversight or declines in BMO’s 

share price. 

Page 98 
Return on Equity or Return on 
Common Shareholders’ Equity 

(ROE) is calculated as net income, 
less non-controlling interest in 

subsidiaries and preferred dividends, 

as a percentage of average common 

shareholders’ equity. Common 

shareholders’ equity is comprised of 

common share capital, contributed 

surplus, accumulated other compre<

hensive income (loss) and retained 

earnings. Adjusted ROE is calculated 

using adjusted net income. 

Page 36 
Risk-Weighted Assets (RWA) 
are defined as on-and off-balance 
sheet exposures, which are risk-

weighted based on counterparty, 

collateral, guarantee arrangements 

and possibly product and term for 

capital management and regulatory 

reporting purposes. 

Page 61 
Securities Borrowed or Purchased 
under Resale Agreements 
are low-cost, low-risk instruments, 

often supported by the pledge 

of cash collateral, which arise 

from transactions that involve 

the borrowing or purchasing 

of securities. 
Securities Lent or Sold under 
Repurchase Agreements 
are low-cost, low-risk liabilities, often 

supported by cash collateral, which 

arise from transactions that involve 

the lending or selling of securities. 
Securitization is the practice of 
selling pools of contractual debts, 
such as residential mortgages, 

commercial mortgages, auto loans 

and credit card debt obligations, to 

third parties. 

Page 145 
Special Purpose Entities (SPEs) 
include entities created to accom<

plish a narrow and well-defined 

objective. We are required to con<

solidate an SPE if we control the SPE 

by having the power to govern the 

financial and operating policies of 

the SPE so as to obtain benefits from 

the SPE’s activities. 

Pages 70, 71, 145 
Specific Allowances 
reduce the 
carrying value of specific credit 
assets to the amount we expect to 

recover if there is evidence of 

deterioration in credit quality. 

Pages 42, 85, 137 
Strategic Risk 
is the potential for 
loss due to fluctuations in the 
external business environment and/ 

or failure to properly respond to 

these fluctuations due to inaction, 

ineffective strategies or poor 

implementation of strategies. 

Page 98 
Stressed Value at Risk (SVaR) 
is measured for specific classes of risk 
in BMO’s trading and underwriting 

activities: interest rate, foreign 

exchange rate, credit spreads, equity 

and commodity prices and their 

implied volatilities, where model 

inputs are calibrated to historical 

data from a period of significant 

financial stress. This measure calcu<

lates the maximum loss likely to be 

experienced in the portfolios, meas<

ured at a 99% confidence level over 

a specified holding period. 

Page 87 
Swaps are contractual agreements 
between two parties to exchange a 
series of cash flows. The various 

swap agreements that we enter into 

are as follows: 
•>>Commodity swaps – counterparties generally exchange fixed-rate and 
floating-rate payments based on 

a notional value of a single 

commodity. •>>Credit default swaps – one counter-party pays the other a fee in 

exchange for that other counter-

party agreeing to make a payment 

if a credit event occurs, such as 

bankruptcy or failure to pay. 
•>>Cross-currency interest rate swaps – fixed-rate and floating-rate 
interest payments and principal 

amounts are exchanged in 

different currencies. 
•>>Cross-currency swaps – fixed-rate interest payments and principal 

amounts are exchanged in 

different currencies. 
•>>Equity swaps – counterparties exchange the return on an equity 

security or a group of equity secu<

rities for the return based on a 

fixed or floating interest rate or the 

return on another equity security or 

group of equity securities. 
•>>Interest rate swaps – counter-parties generally exchange fixed-

rate and floating-rate interest 

payments based on a notional 

value in a single currency. 

Page 147 
Taxable Equivalent Basis (teb): 
Revenues of operating groups 

reflected in our MD&A are presented 

on a taxable equivalent basis (teb). 

To facilitate comparisons, the teb 

adjustment increases reported 

revenues and the provision for 

income taxes by an amount that 

would increase revenues on certain 

tax-exempt securities to a level that 

would incur tax at the statutory rate. 

Page 175 
Tier 1 Capital 
is primarily comprised 
of CET1, preferred shares and other 
qualifying or grandfathered non-

common equity capital, net of cer<

tain deductions. 
Tier 1 Capital Ratio 
reflects Tier 1 
capital divided by risk-weighted 
assets. 
Pages 62, 165 
Total Capital 
includes Tier 1 and 
Tier 2 capital. Tier 2 capital is 
primarily comprised of subordinated 

debentures and a portion of the 

collective allowance for credit 

losses, net of certain deductions. 
Total Capital Ratio 
reflects total 
capital divided by risk-weighted 
assets. 
Pages 62, 165 
Total Shareholder Return: 
The three-year and five-year average 
annual total shareholder return 

(TSR) represents the average annual 

total return earned on an invest<

ment in BMO common shares made 

at the beginning of a three-year and 

five-year period, respectively. The 

return includes the change in share 

price and assumes that dividends 

received were reinvested in addi<

tional common shares. The one-year 

TSR also assumes that dividends 

were reinvested in shares. 

Page 33 
Trading-Related Revenues 
include net interest income and 
non-interest revenue earned from 

on-and off-balance sheet positions 

undertaken for trading purposes. 

The management of these positions 

typically includes marking them to 

market on a daily basis. Trading-

related revenues include income 

(expense) and gains (losses) from 

both on-balance sheet instruments 

and interest rate, foreign exchange 

(including spot positions), equity, 

commodity and credit contracts. 

Page 41 
Value at Risk (VaR) 
is measured for 
specific classes of risk in BMO’s 
trading and underwriting activities: 

interest rate, foreign exchange rate, 

credit spreads, equity and 

commodity prices and their implied 

volatilities. This measure calculates 

the maximum loss likely to be 

experienced in the portfolios, 

measured at a 99% confidence level 

over a specified holding period. 

Page 87 
BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
191                         
   
         Where to Find More Information; 
Corporate Governance 
Our website provides information on our 
corporate gov
ernance practices, including our 
code of conduct, 
FirstPrinciples
, our Director 
Independence Standards and our board 

mandate and committee charters. 
www.bmo.com/corporategovernance 
Management Proxy Circular 
Our management proxy circular contains 

information on our directors, board committee 
reports and a detailed discus
sion of our corporate 
governance practices. It will be published in 
March 2014 and will be available on our website. 
www.bmo.com/corporategovernance 
New York Stock Exchange 
Governance Requirements 
A summary of the significant ways in which 
our corporate
 governance practices differ 
from the corpo
rate gov
ernance practices 
required to be followed by U.S. domestic 

companies under New York Stock Exchange 

Listing Standards is posted on our website. 
www.bmo.com/corporategovernance 
Sustainability Performance 
BMO’s 
Environmental, Social and Governance 

Report and Public Accountability Statement 
(ESG Report/PAS) outlines how we manage the 
environmental, social and governance impacts 

of our business while creating value for our 
many stakeholders. We use the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) as a framework for reporting 

on our sustainability performance. This report 

is available on our website. 
www.bmo.com/esg-pas-report 
Corporate Responsibility 
BMO’s 
Corporate Responsibility Report
, a 
companion piece to the ESG Report/PAS, 

illustrates the way we conduct our business, 
what we stand for and the commitments we’ve 

made to our customers and the communities 
where we ope
rate. This r
eport and additional 
information are available on our website. 
www.bmo.com/corporateresponsibility 
Have Your Say 
If you have a question you would like to ask 

at our annual meeting of shareholders, you 

can submit your question in person or during 

the webcast. You can also submit a question to 

the board by writing to the 
Corporate 
Secretary 
at Corporate 
Secretary’s Office, 21st Floor, 
1 First Canadian Place, Toronto, ON M5X 1A1, 

or emailing corp.secretary@bmo.com. 
192  BMO Financial Group 196th Annual Report 2013 
Shareholders 
Contact our Transfer Agent and Registrar for: 
• Dividend information 
• Change in share registration or address 
• Lost certificates 
• Estate transfers 
• Duplicate mailings 
• Direct registration 
Computershare Trust Company of Canada 
100 University Avenue, 9th Floor, Toronto, ON M5J 2Y1 
Email: service@computershare.com 
www.computershare.com/investor 
Canada and the United States 
Call: 
1-800-340-5021
 Fax: 
1-888-453-0330 
International 

Call: 
514-982-7800
 Fax: 
416-263-9394 
Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 

Co-Transfer Agent (U.S.) 
Online filing information: 
BMO filings in Canada 
Canadian Securities Administrators 
www.sedar.com 
BMO filings in the United States 

Securities and Exchange Commission 
www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml 
For all other shareholder inquiries: 
Shareholder Services 
BMO Financial Group 

Corporate Secret
ary’s Office 
21st Floor, 1 First Canadian Place 

Toronto, ON M5X 1A1 

Email: corp.secretary@bmo.com 

Call: 
416-867-6785
 Fax: 
416-867-6793 
Employees 
For information on BMO’s Employee Share 

Ownership Plan: 
Call: 
1-877-266-6789 
General 
To obtain printed copies of the annual report 
or make inquiries about company news 
and initiatives: 

Corporate Communications Department 
BMO Financial Group 

28th Floor, 1 First Canadian Place 

Toronto, ON M5X 1A1 
On peut obtenir sur demande 
un exemplaire en français. 
www.bmo.com 
Customers 
For assistance with your investment portfolio 

or other financial needs: 
BMO Bank of Montreal 
English and French: 
1-877-225-5266 

Cantonese and Mandarin: 
1-800-665-8800 
Outside Canada and the continental United States: 

416-286-9992 

TTY service for hearing impaired customers: 

1-866-889-0889 
www.bmo.com 
BMO InvestorLine: 1-888-776-6886 
www.bmoinvestorline.com 
BMO Harris Bank 
United States: 
1-888-340-2265 

Outside the United States: 
1-847-238-2265 
www.harrisbank.com 
BMO Nesbitt Burns: 416-359-4000 
www.bmonesbittburns.com 
Institutional Investors 
and Research Analysts 
To obtain additional financial information: 
Head, Investor Relations 
BMO Financial Group 

18th Floor, 1 First Canadian Place 

Toronto, ON M5X 1A1 

Email: investor.relations@bmo.com 

Call: 
416-867-6656
 Fax: 
416-867-3367 
The following are trademarks of Bank of Montreal or its subsidiaries: 

BMO, BMO and the M-bar roundel symbol, BMO Financial Group, BMO Capital Markets, BMO Global Asset 

Management, BMO Harris Bank, BMO Harris Financial Advisors, AdviceDirect, InvestorLine, Making Money 

Make Sense, Nesbitt Burns, M&I 
The following are trademarks of other parties: 
MasterCard is a registered trademark of MasterCard International Incorporated< 

iPhone and iPad are registered trademarks of Apple Inc.< 

Android is a trademark of Google Inc.< 
        
                     
                 
  
 
  
 
            Shareholder Information; 
Market for Shares of Bank of Montreal 
The common shares of Bank of Montreal are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) and 
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The preferred shares of Bank of Montreal are listed on the TSX. 
Common Share Trading in Fiscal 2013 
Primary stock 
Closing price 
Total 
volume 
of 
exchanges Ticker 
October 31, 2013 
High Low
 shares traded 
TSX BMO 
$72.62 $73.90 $56.74 348.2
 million; 
NYSE BMO 
US$69.70 US$70.91 US$55.61 111.4 million; 
Common Share History 
Date 
Action <
Common share effect 
Your vote matters. 
Look out for your proxy circular in 
March and remember to vote. 
 Important Dates 
Fiscal Year End October 31 
Annual Meeting  April 1, 2014, 
9:30 a.m. (local time) 
The annual meeting of shareholders will 

be held in Toronto, Ontario, at the BMO 

Institute for Learning, 3550 Pharmacy 

Avenue. 
The meeting will be webcast. 
Details are available on our website. 
www.bmo.com/investorrelations 
March 14, 2001 
100% stock dividend 
Equivalent to a 2-for-1 stock split 
March 20, 1993 
100% stock dividend 
Equivalent to a 2-for-1 stock split 
June 23, 1967 
Stock split 
5-for-1 stock split 
Dividends Paid per Share in 2013 and Prior Years 
Bank of Montreal has paid dividends for 185 years 
Œ the longest-running dividend payout 
record of any company in Canada. 
Shares 
outstanding Issue/Class 
Ticker at October 31, 2013 
2013
 2012 2011 2010 2009 
Common BMO 
644,129,945 $ 2.92 (a) $ 2.80 
$ 2.80 $ 2.80 $ 2.80 
Preferred Class B 
Series 5 (b)
 BMO.PR.H
 Œ $ 0.66 $ 1.33 $ 1.33 $ 1.33 $ 1.33 
Series 10 (c)
 BMO.PR.V
 Œ Œ US$ 0.37 US$ 1.49 US$ 1.49 US$ 1.49 
Series 13 (d)
 BMO.PR.J
 14,000,000 $ 1.13 $ 1.13 $ 1.13 $ 1.13 $ 1.13 
Series 14 (e) BMO.PR.K
 10,000,000 $ 1.31 $ 1.31 $ 1.31 $ 1.31 $ 1.31 
Series 15 (f)
 BMO.PR.L
 10,000,000 $ 1.45 $ 1.45 $ 1.45 $ 1.45 $ 1.45 
Series 16 (g) BMO.PR.M
 6,267,391 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 
Series 17 (h)
 BMO.PR.R
 5,732,609 Œ Œ Œ Œ Œ 
Series 18 (i) BMO.PR.N
 6,000,000 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.55 
Series 21 
(j)
 BMO.PR.O
 11,000,000 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.11 
Series 23 (k)
 BMO.PR.P
 16,000,000 $ 1.35 $ 1.35 $ 1.35 $ 1.35 $ 0.59 
Series 25 (l) BMO.PR.Q
 11,600,000 $ 0.98 $ 0.98 $ 0.69 Œ Œ 
(a) 
Dividend amount paid in 2013 was $2.92. Dividend amount declared in< 
(e) The Class B Preferred Shares Series 14 were issued in September 2007. 
2013 was $2.94. 
(f) The Class B Preferred Shares Series 15 were issued in March 2008. 
(b) 
The Class B Preferred Shares Series 5 were issued in February 1998 and< 
(g) The Class B Preferred Shares Series 16 were issued in June 2008. 
were redeemed in February 2013. Dividend amount declared in 2013 of 
(h) The Class B Preferred Shares Series 17 were issued in August 2013. 
$0.33 was included in the redemption price. 
(i) The Class B Preferred Shares Series 18 were issued in December 2008. 
(c) 
The Class B Preferred Shares Series 10 were issued in December 2001 and< 
(j) The Class B Preferred Shares Series 21 were issued in March 2009. 
were redeemed in February 2012. 
(k) The Class B Preferred Shares Series 23 were issued in June 2009. 
(d) 
The Class B Preferred Shares Series 13 were issued in January 2007. 
(l) The Class B Preferred Shares Series 25 were issued in March 2011. 
Credit Ratings 
Credit rating information appears on pages 25 and 94 of this annual report and on our website. 
www.bmo.com/creditratings 
Managing Your Shares 
Reinvesting Your Dividends and 
Our Transfer Agent and Registrar 
Purchasing Additional Common Shares 
Computershare Trust Company of Canada serves 
Through the Shareholder Dividend 
as Transfer Agent and Registrar for common 
Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan, 
and preferred shares, with transfer facilities in 
you can reinvest cash dividends from your 
Halifax, Montreal, Toronto, Winnipeg, Calgary 
BMO common shares to purchase additional 
and Vancouver. Computershare Investor Services 
BMO common shares without paying a 
PLC and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 
commission or service charge. You can also 
serve as Transfer Agents and Registrars for 
purchase additional common shares in 
common shares in London, England and Golden, 
amounts up to $40,000 per fiscal year. Contact 
Colorado, respec
tively. See previous page for 
Computershare Trust Company of Canada 
contact information. 
or Shareholder Services for details. 
2014 Dividend Payment Dates
* Common and preferred shares record dates 
February 3 May 1 

August 1 November 3 
Common shares payment dates; 
February 26 May 27; 

August 26 November 26; 
Preferred shares payment dates; 
February 25 May 26; 

August 25 November 25; 
*Subject to approval by the Board of Directors. 
The 
Bank Act
 prohibits a bank from 
declaring or paying a dividend if it is or 
would thereby be in contravention of 
regulations or an order from the Super=

intendent of Financial Institutions Canada 
dealing with adequacy of capital or liquidity. 
Currently, this limitation does not restrict 

the pay
ment of dividends on Bank of 
Montreal’s 
common or preferred shares. 
Employee Ownership
* 83.5%
 of Canadian employees participate 
in the BMO Employee Share Ownership 

Plan 
Œ a clear indication of their commit=

ment to the company. 
*As of October 31, 2013. 
Auditors 
KPMG LLP 
Direct Deposit 

You can choose to have your dividends 
deposited directly to an account in any 

financial
 institution in Canada or the 
United States that provides electronic 

funds transfer. 
Personal Information Security 
We advise our shareholders to be diligent 
in protecting their personal information. 
Details are available on our website. 
www.bmo.com/security 
Strategic design: Ove Brand|Design 
www.ovedesign.com 
  The BMO Harris Bank Community Art Project was commissioned for this 
year’s BMO Harris Bank Magnificent Mile Lights Festival as a way to 
celebrate the Chicago community. Focused on youth and families, the 

colourful mosaic mural was a city-wide, collaborative effort from more 

than 25 organizations and 400 BMO Harris employees. Local sports teams, 

festival attendees and Chicago’s police and fire departments pulled out 

their paintbrushes to complete the mural, which showcases the people 

and places that make the city great. 
Part of defining great customer experience is making a positive impact on our 
communities every day, everywhere we do business. 
For more information visit bmoharris.com/chicagomural 
This annual report is carbon neutral. 
Carbon offsets 
provided by: 
