BMO Financial Group
 197
th Annual Report 2014
Not just  
any bank.
Real life doesn’t follow a script. 
Neither do we. 

What matters is making the right 
choices. Being part of something that’s 

growing. And staying a few steps 

ahead in a world of constant change.
We get it.

And we’re here to help.
Financiaal SnapsshotReporte
d1Adjuste
d1,2AsAs 
ataot at 
or 
orfor
fo the yeaear ended October 
3111(((Canadian
$ inin milmililions,
 except as note
ed)20142013201401432013Revenue(p 36)6,166,6886,71867160,0636161606316,7182215,372Prov
ision for cred
r credit losses 
(p 40)
p40)555556561585875613573535Non-interterest e
xpense (p 4
1)10,92212110,,22610,7619,75599Net innncome
ncome(p33)
(p 33)
4,33344,195 4,4534,45 4,223EaEarrrnings per share 
Œded ($)  diluted
(p 33)
16.4111414116.17 6.59.596 6.21Ret
Return on equity(p(p 34)
14.0%%14.4.4.9%4...9%4...9%14144.4.4%%15.0%5.0%attiniggleeveveraraage 
eOperattinineratier(p 41)(2.77)%(0.1)0.1)))0.1)1)1)%1.6)%1.6)%(1.6)%(0.3)%ommoon Equity 
l IBasel 
Coml III Com
r 1 
RaTieerroRaRatitioop 334)(p 
%%%%110.1%%9.9%9%100100.100.1%9.9%eggegment
gmentggSegeIncome
 by 
Net I
anaCanadian P&CannaadiaanaCaadiap 4p 45)
(pp0142,0141,81,812 2,02222,022 82222 81,1,88U.S.
 P&C P&CUU(p 48)
(p4
8))))644865815 66996 631 666ntnnagememenWealth Man
naWeWeWeWe(p 51)85578855808330 4888484 857575788ets eMarrke
OCaCapetkeeketapitalMaMaral Ma
rrkerke
O Capit
O Capit
OOOOBMOOOMO(p 54)
(p1,090791,,040444 4 04 4 ,0801,0 4466,004611,,ces
ceorate S
te SSeServicceoCooCorpoCoCorp37))57)(p 5
7)))((3)3)193((72)(19193193193)3)3)(((1(((1(((((111(1(1(1(1(1333)me et income
t t NetNet et(p(p 33)
)4,334,333333334,1954,4,4,4534,4534,453,453424422232332222223232223444,2,24,4,2222224,21 embmbmber 1, 201
3, 
BBMemveOn Nov
Nov
emevememove3, 
BBMopt
edoed3, 
, , BBBMO
BMMMO ado
uununnnuouunumenmemeuncenting pron
ooumenmemeuncepron
ouemeneceemceemeuncepron
nounnnnnnnnnnnntnting pron
nting pg ronnnnnnnt Internati
ennnnnnnnntnnntnnnts issu
ueddntttsiss
nts
ttsiss
ddd by th
by the
y the
 ounuamencoconded acc
oaaadadamaaadadamaaadadandannanddndnnddndnnddndnnnsevera
l teed ed sev
eranalal new 
ananw anoounouoooud acc
ood accou
nat
ioooonalg Standar
dAcc
ooccoog Sing ccounounttiard Re.RResRardsrds
rds 
BBoBBoBoBoBoard.
 RRCerta
Cy.Cly.Cgaaccoccordi
rdi
nglngyygly.y. 
ly.
aear da
taeainnninnnaiaiainnnnnnn othe
rn on or pppriprioprior-y
eaaabeeenbe be be beeehave
1313esesuults for
 fisusuultsfor
fisal2isscall 2013
al scal2
sscadadad aaeeeddeend en restate
d eeaaaaata has
beeen enrrerec
to co
ntoedtorec
lasassifionhonononfo
rmrmwwwiwiwiwithithtwittttthththhh ththm wiiwittittitttht3.3.2 and43.2 tiotttentat
prese
prprpar’spntyyeeayyeaar’sear
sththe ccurre
eenttnty
curren
current y
yyeyyeeaentat
sentat
reseesprppre
p s pprs42 42  See pages pagpaes pgSion. n. ion. Stiontt22222 lldres
uudresu
ddd res
eud resu
eddltltAdtAdj
ustAdAdd red rted
eddjust
edjusted
ltltltlts artsar
ltttare
arenon-GA
Gseectcsectio
s sesssess sn sectio
32.e 32.. . ppppagaggge 322ooonnonnnnn n n AsesAAAAAAAAAP aP aP aand are
nd arnd arthtnttnttinedtttintd in teded eeeddiiisrearereediisre dissssescuss
eeeededscuss
escuss
edseeeeasuureaAAP Mea
ssesres
ereasureaeasu
reea Mea
MeAAPGAAGAththettthehttthAANNoNon-GA
GAGGNNeNNeNNee NtttntMan
entemenmentanageggttasttt sesses p
ers pepessssessse
erreeererttt condcocococooooooo and annddasis aoooooooderddeders bssbds bot
othh h to bbeehth tooooooooooddonononssididdiddrrrsrrrfo
rrrrrforrform
annce
cecebasiscee eee onoonn a GAGAbaP babaGAAP bsssted bas
sted
sted
stdjus
tnnanddju
adadjuna aadj
nnnnnnannnonand onanddandanaanannnnnnnnannss aas s ae asse
see usefeful ulin the ass
essesessseeess
ess
essment
ggggyingof und
erlyinggerlyinggderlyingndeggggggiingng buooiongoiinngoigoinuusogogggggggggg og og ogggggggggoonoonoodddovroovoidovovovid
oroes prdead
ersrss swrswwiwititwwiwiithitittthhathhaaathhh des rresesssiness
peeennnnneeeere. Prformance
. ance
.e.sePreeseePeebot
h basebbot
bot
h bbn onbobbbn bbnb onosobn sg resu
gggggggggng sultsultssssulultsnnnnntinundderserstatbbettetter 
undera bette
a ba betetttandiding of
tanoofofgegeeegeeeeeew mana
how
 managnageeessess
ssess
sess
sssntasssstasaass
seeeseseeeeeeentnnt t tntemememmenmmmmenneneeeees resul
es ereslltsts.s.3 orateSorat
ratee Se ServrvrvCor
poraCoratvcludiudididiniiniginnnnclcclcs, inc
ccs,incvvsvices
sices
gng Tech
hng Tech
hooonoononoonnttatatitiiaatioioiondOpehnologyhnoanndogy an
dOpe
rad Operandandd andhhhhnhnhhs.snsnonns.nnnnCor
rpoeaas theoooonsndnds nnbran
bnaaal booororg
orga
anncom
cocoomoocoober coobermbompampaaaabebzatimbatio
ation’s
 meems memzanizaBMO
BMies as BMieieieiiieniepapaananaMOououGro
GouGrou
roGrop. N
pNNop. 
Nopootppppupuuunciacial l ncilGlGiFinanciFFiFiFinal GGGrGNootonpn p8on
Note2
8oon ote 2
8 on FiMOMOMO Fi
MOOOFFiFiBan
kBBaananknk of MMMontrea
alBalal l pp6 of tttnancial nancie financiethe6age 17agpapa76 o76 
1716 cial corpora
raraticiinterc
iieiiratrateatee rerrrrerrrerreterrrnnnofof M
oknnknnnnok ooonko
nnokokknnnnaanaaong Ba
ooong BaononBaooamoamomoaps apssannBanati
onships ati
oonships lrellations
hipsrelreelontMonf MoofMo
okontnd nd idnifnifd iits sigititss signicant subicant sususubcaiicaicficfififilaandital aneereaeeeaeaeaeal
alaneaaaeaaaitstsubirisubsidiarireantntntreaththhehstststatatem
essteents lists ththhehehhe e inhe hhhhiiies.ieeeieiBMO at a Glance
Business Review
IFC BMO at a Glance

2   
Not Just Any Bank
10   Chairman’s Message

11 CEO’s Message

17  Senior Leadership Team

18  Corporate
 Governance
20  Board of Directors
Financial Review

22 Reasons to Invest in BMO

23  CFO’s Foreword to the Financial 
Review
24  
Financial Performance and 

Condition at a Glance
26  
Management’s Discussion and 

Analysis 106  Supplemental Information
120 Statement of Management’s 
Responsibility for  Financial 
Information
121 Independent Auditors’ Report of 
Registered Public Accounting Firm
122 Report of Independent Registered 
Public Accounting Firm 
123  Consolidated Financial Statements
128  Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements
Resources and Directories
190 Glossary of Financial Terms

192 Where to Find More Information

IBC Shareholder Information
2  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  3We help people figure out today 
while planning for tomorrow. 
It’s about building confidence 

and trust – consistently and 

authentically.
And it’s about embracing 
change. Welcoming disruption 

that inspires new ways of 

thinking.It’s 46,000 people pulling 
together and living what we 

believe. Seeing what’s possible 

– and taking it even further. 
This is what we do.
How we 
work.
Set big goals. Keep aiming higher. 
2  BMO Financial Group
 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
  3At BMO’s annual Technology and Operations Leadership Conference, 
more than 300 senior leaders came together 
to collaborate 
on accelerating 
change for customers – through digital and physical 
channels, data 
and processes – while maintaining discipline in the areas of operational 
excellence and risk. “It’s a great opportunity for employees to come 

together and talk about taking our work to the next level,” says 

Jason Rhule, Mobility Specialist, Digital Workspace, pictured here 

with Jacquelyn van Kampen of MakeLab.
4  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  54  BMO Financial Group
 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group
 197th Annual Report 2014
  5Following the publication of a BMO
 – The Boston Consulting Group report, 
Building a New 
Momentum in Montreal
, BMO initiated the 
I see mtl
 movement in partnership with the Board 
of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal to reignite confidence in the city’s future. L. Jacques Ménard, 
chairman of BMO Nesbitt Burns and BMO’s Quebec president, is spearheading the drive to engage 

citizens and community, business and institutional leaders in a range of renewal initiatives: “The 

commitment to action by project leaders has exceeded all our expectations. With so many people 

mobilized to build the Montreal of tomorrow, revitalization is well underway.”
In a healthy society, everyone expects a lot of each other. 
Business is more than a series of transactions. It’s a set of 
beliefs – the steps that guide you past the easy thing to 

the right thing. 
Responsibility isn’t just following the rules. It’s working to keep 

the system fair and accountable, while leading by example.
Here’s where we fit in.
Everyone
contributes.
6  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  7The real 
thing.Times change. 
Values don’t. 
In a complicated, fast-moving world, honesty matters. So does 
integrity. And empathy, grounded in respect.
This is how performance should be measured. Not by numbers 
alone, but by the values they reflect. 
And this is where our confidence comes from. The conviction, 
after nearly 200 years, that success is driven by our passion for 

helping others succeed – and that by working together, we’re 

building a better future. 
6  BMO Financial Group
 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group
 197th Annual Report 2014
  7 We serve individuals, businesses, governments and corpo
rate customers across 
Canada and the United States. Our significant presence in North America is 
bolstered by operations in select global markets, including Europe and Asia, 

allowing us to provide our customers in North America with access to economies 

and markets around the world, and our customers in other countries with access 

to North America.
8  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  9 People’s lives and financial decisions are 
totally interconnected. Understanding how 

they’re linked requires more than ticking a 

few boxes. It’s a conversation. And it starts 

with listening. 
Customers want answers to the questions 
that matter. They want processes that 

make things simpler, and technologies that 

help them get where they need to go next.
Helping is second nature for us. It’s the 
promise that drives everything we do. 
Because we know that people take money 
personally. And so do we. 
8  BMO Financial Group
 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group
 197th Annual Report 2014
  9 A promise 
to help.
That’s what it comes 
down to. 
United Alloy, Inc., a 15-year-old company 
specializing in metal fabrication and powder 

painting, employs more than 150 people in 

Janesville, Wisconsin – a town that was hit hard 

when a major auto plant closed in 2009. “With 

the bank’s help, we’ve added 135,000 square 

feet of manufacturing space,” says United Alloy 

founder Tom Baer, a BMO customer for three 

decades. “Our sales have more than doubled 

since 2011, and we expect them to double 

again in the next five years.”
10  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  11Chief Executive Officer’s Message
Each year we use this introductory section of our annual 
report to summarize the accomplishments of the past 12 

months, which are detailed in the Management’s Discussion 

and Analysis (MD&A) that follows. We also use these pages 

to present a clear point of view about the world in which we 

live, the things we believe really matter and what we think it 

all means for our business. Whether you’re a customer, a 

shareholder, an employee or a stakeholder in the broader 

community, we want you to understand the strategy of the 

bank, the action plan that supports that strategy and its 

relevance to the issues that we understand matter to you.
As the Chairman has captured in his message, 2014 was 

a year of tremendous progress in moving forward the 

agenda of the bank. We reported strong financial results 

and continued to build on the momentum in each of our 

operating businesses.
In the year, BMO Financial Group generated $4.5 billion in 
adjusted net income, declared $2 billion in dividends and 

increased retained earnings by $2.2 billion, strengthening 

the balance sheet to finish the year with a Common Equity 

Tier 1 Ratio of 10.1%. We also completed the $1.3 billion 

acquisition of F&C Asset Management plc, moving BMO into 

the global top 50 in institutional money management.   
Our total shareholder return for the year was 17.1%. Since 

2009, we have increased adjusted earnings per share by 

over 60% to $6.59 and increased book value per share 

from $32 to $48. 
This consistent performance has been driven by a disciplined 
growth strategy and guided by a set of clear strategic 

priorities. But it also reflects something more – a difference 

in how people across this organization think, act and work 

together. Corporate
 culture is difficult to capture in a 
checklist or a questionnaire, but it is a topic directly related 

to trust – the most valuable capital a bank maintains. It is 

revealed in the beliefs that a company has committed to 

uphold and in the actions of the people who work there. 

And it is mirrored in the aspiration to grow revenue and 

profit in a way that respects all stakeholders. 
  The primacy of the customer isn’t optional
In last year’s annual report we made the point that 

expectations are changing, in real time, across virtually 

every area of contemporary society. And we looked at 

how BMO is evolving to meet the emerging expectations 

of our stakeholders. The forces we discussed a year ago 

continue to affect all industries. Changes in consumer 
behaviour – driven most notably by the confluence of 
mobile networks, rapid digitization, customer analytics and 

cloud-based computing – are transforming the competitive 
landscape, prompting reviews of long-held business 
models and, naturally, inviting new entrants. We’re seeing 
all of this in banking.
Chairman’s Message
Taking Possibility Further 
A Year of Clear Progress
Your bank has had another good year, with financial results 
that reinforce our confidence 
in the strategy we are pursuing. 
The core businesses of the bank continued to show strong 

growth, and all of us – the Board of Directors, our employees 

and our customers – are optimistic about the year ahead.
We note, in particular, that the new businesses we have acquired 

in recent years – in U.S. Personal and Commercial Banking and in 
global Wealth Management – are already contributing to the 

bank’s performance and show great promise for the future.
The introduction of the revitalized brand in the closing months 

of the year has captured the imagination of employees and 

customers alike. 
We’re here to help
 resonates with all of us in 
the ever-more-complex world of financial services. It nicely 

complements the bank’s culture of service, where our 

employees’ dedication and commitment to customers 

continue to be driving forces in our performance. I thank our 

employees for all they have done so well in the past year.
On your behalf, I also want to acknowledge the efforts of the 
senior management team and the excellent leadership of our 

CEO, Bill Downe. Together, the
y have set clear strategic 
priorities for the bank, and delivered against them – more 

than doubling our annual earnings in the past five years and 

generating substantial returns for shareholders.
This coming year will see the retirement from the board of two 
long-serving and exemplary directors: Bob Astley, who joined 

the board in 2004, and Bruce Mitchell, who joined in 1999. Bob 
and Bruce brought deep expertise and outstanding business 

judgment to the board. Both of them led board committees 

with great distinction and effectiveness, and they deserve 

much of the credit for BMO’s enviable record of excellence in 

corporate gov
ernance. We thank them for their leadership and 
exceptional service, which have made a lasting contribution to 

the strength of the bank. We will miss them.
Achieving success in the current economic and financial 
environment is challenging. The industry is highly competitive 

and fast-changing – and uncertainty is inherent. While the 

global economy continues to impr
ove, new 
risks are beginning 
to materialize. We are very conscious of these risks, and your 

Board of Directors considers risk assessment and risk 

management to be among its principal responsibilities. We 

remain confident that our measured approach and strong 

processes will allow us to make the most of the opportunities 

ahead as we continue to grow and strengthen the bank. And 

these opportunities are many. We look forward to working 

with Bill Downe and the leadership team to capitalize on them, 

while managing risk well, embracing innovation and paying 

close attention to our productivity performance.
As your representatives, we thank all our shareholders for 
your continuing confidence in BMO and the direction we are 

headed. It is a privilege to serve you.
J. Robert S. Prichard
J. Robert S. Prichard
Chairman of the Board
William A. Downe

Chief Executive Officer, BMO Financial Group
The Board of Directors is pleased with 
BMO’s results, and confident about the 

year ahead.
12  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  13The past 12 months sharpened our explanation of what’s 
unique about BMO’s response to a changing world. It meant 
defining how to meaningfully serve customers while fulfilling 

our larger responsibilities – and here we’ve established a 

clear perspective. It also meant balancing ambition with 

inclusiveness and the values that endure, and using that 

experience to create competitive advantage. Finally, it was 

about maintaining the conviction to direct all dimensions of 

our business – our talent, capabilities, capital and reputation – 

toward the ultimate goal of helping customers succeed.
These efforts have led us to elevate the brand of the bank 

around what we know: that money is personal. It holds 

that customers want to make better decisions with better 

information and have confidence in the decisions they 

make. But they also want to feel understood. For a brand 

to be valuable, it must provide a consistent experience, 

defined by a common set of ideals, across every customer 

touch point. The pages that precede this letter outline 

exactly what we think those ideals are.
The primacy of the customer is our focus. Nothing is more 
vital to us. We build our business around what we think is 

most important, because in a world where information is so 

readily exchanged, who you are and what you stand for are 

visible to everyone. The way forward can only be guided by 

a coherent view of how we’re going to act. 
Predicting what’s in store
The accelerating pace of change is not news – it’s 
the everyday reality that frames how we conduct our 

business. We have built that fact into our planning. It’s 

what allows us to take action in the face of uncertainty 

while acknowledging that the future will be difficult 

to reliably predict.  
Advances in computing, networked communications and 

the digitization of everything are transforming the lives of 

consumers, as well as the knowledge and skills that people 

need to be successful in their work. This is creating both 

extraordinary opportunity and unprecedented challenges 

for businesses, including our own.   
The breadth and velocity of these changes, admittedly, 
will be disruptive. The competitive playing field is being 

reshaped by a growing number of new entrants, while 

incumbents are revisiting models that have long been 

taken for granted. In this way, disruption is acting as a 

catalyst for positive change: it reveals areas of potential 

and inspires innovation along alternative vectors, even as 

we reinvest in proven models. And while such a rapid 

evolution also brings uncertainty, the one truth we can 

count on is that the customer – empowered by digital 
platforms, mobile technologies and social networks – will 
dictate how banking is going to work.
The customer remains at the centre of the five strategic 
priorities that guide our bank (see sidebar). As we continue 
our efforts to drive productivity, leverage our North American 
platform and support our cus
tomers where the
y operate, 
including key global markets such as China – all while 

maintaining a prudent approach to risk – every decision we 

make points back to our fundamental promise to the 

people with whom we do business.
We continue to take the longer view over short-term 
tactics and in this context are evolving the way we 
operate. Protec
ting customer recor
ds and information, and 
ensuring accuracy and system availability; marshalling 

technology’s ability to provide improved customer 

experiences at lower cost; enhancing our use of 
Chief Executive Officer’s Message
In a world where 
information is so readily 

exchanged, 
who you 
are and what you stand 

for is visible to everyone.
  The way forward can 

only be guided by a 

coherent view of how 

we’re going to act.
54321Achieve industry-leading 
customer loyalty by delivering 

on our brand promise.
Enhance productivity to 
drive performance and 

shareholder value.
Leverage our consolidated 
North American platform 

to deliver quality earnings 

growth.
Expand strategically in 
select global markets to 

create future growth.
Ensure our strength in risk 

management underpins 
everything we do for our 

customers.
Our strategic 
priorities2013
2014
2012
2013
2014
2012
2013
2014
2012
2013
2014
2012
*Adjusted Revenue
($ Billions)
Adjusted Net Income
($ Billions)
Adjusted ROE
(%)Basel III Common
Equity Tier 1 Ratio
(%)9.9
15.0
4.2
15.4
10.1
14.4
4.5
16.78.7
15.5
4.1
14.9
* 2012 CET1 Ratio is on a pro-forma basis.
14  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  15 bill payments was higher through digital channels than 
ABMs in Canada – something that has been true in the U.S. 

for some time. But the vast majority of customers still 

prefer to drop by a branch to open an account or arrange 

a mortgage – and for now, this is independent of age 

or geography.   
In the end, keeping pace with human change means 

a lot of things. Fundamentally, it’s a question of embracing 

progress, but not without thinking about its implications. 

As a bank, we will continue to make the required trade-

offs and let go of the parts that are less relevant to 
stakeholders. And we will continue to insist on behaviours 
that lead to high trust. Because it’s what we have 

always done.  
 Measuring our performance  
BMO’s performance in fiscal 2014 confirms the value of this 

work and can be measured in financial terms. Results from 

our four principal business groups reflect the momentum 

flowing from investments we have been making over the 

past several years as we execute the bank’s customer-

focused strategy:
Canadian Personal and Commercial Banking had a record 
year, with over $2 billion in earnings and operating 

leverage of 2%. Our largest business continued to deliver 

good balance sheet growth and improved efficiency.   
U.S. Personal and Commercial Banking finished fiscal 2014 
with good momentum and growth, demonstrating 

improved revenue and earnings trends in the second half. 

Commercial lending continues to be strong, the small-

business segment is moving forward and retail banking is 

coming to life.
Wealth Management has been the fastest-growing 
operating group in the bank over the past five years, 

growing from 17% of the bank’s operating group revenue to 

22% in that period. BMO’s expanded global asset 

management business continues to innovate and diversify 

across its distinctive product offering. 
Capital Markets generated over $1 billion in earnings, with a 

strong ROE of 19%. We’ve made good progress in growing 

Corporate & Inve
stment Banking, improving the balance 
with sales and trading, and enhancing our business across 

an integrated North American platform with an increased 

contribution from the U.S.
The results we’re seeing today reflect the consistent 
performance of the 46,000 people who work here and the 

overall soundness of our strategy. Four years ago, we made 

a decision to strengthen BMO’s continental advantage as a 

North American bank, with a footprint spanning strong 

regional economies. We’re realizing the full value of our 

investment through continued earnings growth. Progress in 

the most recent fiscal year can be credited to decisions 

made two and three years ago. We can’t ignore continuing 

adjustment in markets across the world but remain 

confident in the capacity of the system to adjust and 

innovate – and in our ability to remain relevant and 

profitable in all market conditions, good or bad.  
The bank’s progress is sustainable, because our 
commitment to 
generate a fair return for shareholders is in 
balance with the need to provide high-quality products at 

an optimal price, and to invest in a talented, well-trained 

workforce. As digital sales continue to grow, we are 

defining a path to improve relative efficiency and, at the 

same time, a differentiated position in customer loyalty. In 

all of our decision-making, we weigh what is necessary 

against what is possible, determining where financial 

performance intersects with social responsibility.
Chief Executive Officer’s Message
technology to manage the bank better, automate 

processes and reduce costs to drive competitive advantage 
– these are strategic competencies we work on every single
 day. Likewise, we are managing a great deal more data 

than before – and our first job is to protect our customers 

and their ever-growing trail of digital information. Our 

bank is strong in all of these areas and has the necessary 

capabilities to lead the way.  
And like our customers, we can’t help but be enthused by 

new technologies.  
In 2014, the next release of BMO’s top-rated mobile banking 
app reinforced our position as an industry leader. The volume
 of sales transactions that our customers conduct online is 

now equivalent to more than 120 retail branches. We’re also 
providing bite-sized financial management right on customers’
 mobile devices, as we anticipate the questions that often 

arise in the moment.   
In the coming year, we’ll continue that momentum:
• Testing touchless ABMs in the U.S. that allow customers 
to type in their transaction details on a smartphone 
app and then scan a Quick Response code on the ABM 

screen to conduct the transaction, replacing the need 

for a card.
 •  Testing video ABMs that offer direct access to bankers 
anytime for additional information and help.
•  Launching Apple Pay for customers of BMO Harris 
Bank, enabling them to pay for purchases using their 

iPhones in a secure and contactless transaction that 

doesn’t require sharing their debit and credit card 

numbers with merchants. 
•  Experimenting with MasterPass™ by MasterCard
®, which lets customers easily check out online purchases 

– a shop-and-click experience that stores all of their 

payment and shipping information in one convenient 

and secure place.
 All of these experiences have to be frictionless. We’re very 
familiar with that, too.  
The next wave of mobile capabilities is already having an 

impact on consumers’ lives. Receiving travel alerts at the 

airport; tracking personal health and fitness on the move; 

being told that the item you viewed online is available 

when you walk into a store – such innovations are now par 

for the course. They are everywhere you look.   
While companies launched in the digital era create products 
and services that are remarkably convenient, many are still 

largely unregulated. It is a fact that some customers are 

ready and willing to pay with a smartphone instead of a 

plastic card at the checkout counter and transfer money 

through social media. These capabilities will inevitably 

become part of nearly every bank’s product mix – ours 

included. But they are not everything. The relevance of 

human interaction has actually increased.   
Our industry 
just
 reached a tipping point this year: retail 
transaction volume for transactions such as transfers and 
38%
Canadian P&C Banking
22%
BMO Capital Markets
22%
Wealth Management
18%
U.S. P&C Banking
2014 Revenue by 
Operating Group
1(C$)
1 Excludes C
orporate Services revenue
Over 75% of revenue 
from retail businesses
1Diversified business mix 
with retail focus
It’s a question of 
embracing progress,
 but not without thinking 

about its implications.
16  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  17 Senior Leadership Team
Jean-Michel Arès
Chief Technology 
& Operations Officer, 
BMO Financial Group
Christopher Begy
U.S. Country Head & 

Chief Executive Officer, 

BMO Financial Corp.
William Downe
Chief Executive Officer, 

BMO Financial Group
Simon FishGeneral Counsel, 

BMO Financial Group
Thomas Flynn
Chief Financial Officer, 

BMO Financial Group
Cameron Fowler
Group Head, Canadian 

Personal and Commercial 

Banking
, BMO Financial Group
Mark Furlong

Group Head, U.S. Personal 

and Commercial Banking 

and Chief Executive Officer, 

BMO Harris Bank N.A.
Carol Neal

Chief Auditor, 

BMO Financial Group
Gilles Ouellette
Group Head, 

Wealth Management
Surjit Rajpal
Chief Risk Officer, 

BMO Financial Group
Joanna Rotenberg
Chief Marketing Officer 
and Head of Strategy,
 BMO Financial Group
Richard Rudderham

Chief Human Resources Officer, 

BMO Financial Group
Connie Stefankiewicz
Head, North American Channel 

Strategy and Solutions
, BMO Financial Group
Frank Techar
Chief Operating Officer, 

BMO Financial Group 
Darryl White*
Group Head, 

BMO Capital Markets
Wealth Management U.S. Personal and Commercial BankingBMOCapitalMarkets
Core footprintOther locations:BCYTNTABSKONQCMBNLPENBNSNUUTCOTXWIMNFLMOKSNEGAVANYMAWAORCAINILAZWe 
are
 here to help
With a larger sense of responsibility comes the recognition 
that if we embrace and promote change, we must also 

play a role in addressing its broader consequences. The 

digital revolution is opening up unprecedented avenues 

of opportunity. It is also radically altering the very nature 

of work.
The evolution of BMO’s brand promise states clearly what 

we expect of ourselves as we deliver on what customers 

expect of our bank: to be highly regarded by those who 

know us – with industry-leading loyalty – and to offer a 

welcome alternative for prospective customers.    
We share the essential optimism that characterizes our 

society and the confident belief in tomorrow that drives its 

architects, innovators and entrepreneurs. And while BMO’s 

brand may seem like a promise made strictly to our 
customers, it is in fact a promise to all stakeholders intended 
to successfully capture the issues that are important to 

them. Ultimately, we want to be a company whose shares 

you will confidently hold for a very long time, for the same 

reason that customers reward us with their loyalty – 

because we understand that money is personal, and a 

bank should be, too.
Our strategic 
footprint
BMO’s strategic footprint spans strong regional 
economies. Our three operating groups serve 

individuals, businesses, governments and 

corporate cust
omers right across Canada and in 
six U.S. Midwest states – Illinois, Indiana, 

Wisconsin, Minnesota, Missouri and Kansas – as 

well as in other select locations in the United 

States. Our significant presence in North 

America is bolstered by operations in select 

global markets, including Europe and Asia, 

allowing us to provide our customers in North 

America with access to economies and markets 

around the world, and our customers in other 

countries with access to North America.
William A. Downe
Chief Executive Officer, 

BMO Financial Group
Wealth Management U.S. Personal and Commercial BankingBMO Capital MarketsCore footprintOther locations:Chief Executive Officer’s Message
A key area of focus in 2014 was the evolution of BMO’s brand. Headed by Chief Operating Officer Frank Techar, this initiative s
et the stage for a 
company-wide conversation, bringing together thousands of employees – through workshops and vibrant, unfiltered online discussi
ons – to 
help answer the question: How do we effectiv
ely demonstrate
 our brand to our customers? T
ogether, our employees developed a cle
ar set of 
actions and behaviours that bring our brand to life.
* Effective November 1, 2014.
18  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  19 Good corporate governance matters to our shareholders, our customers, 
our employees, our communities – and to us. We strive to meet rigor-

ous standards of corporate governance, following the best practices in 

our industry and meeting or going beyond regulatory requirements.
Our board oversees our business
Our Board of Directors supervises how we manage our 
business and affairs. Its members hav
e sophisticated 
expertise and a range of perspectives. The board makes 

decisions based on BMO’s strategies, core values, and the 

best information available. Its decisions emphasize long-

term performance over short-term gain. 
The Globe and 

Mail
’s Board Games 2014 annual re
view of corporate 
governance practices in Canada ranked BMO first overall 

among the 247 companies and income trusts in the S&P/

TSX Composite Index.
The board operates independently of management
The Chairman of the Board and our directors, other than 
the Chief Executive Officer
, operate independently of 
management. Board meetings include time for the 
independent directors to meet without management 

or non-independent directors present.
To reflect our customers and our values, our 
board is diverse
The diverse backgrounds of our directors connect us with our 

customers, our markets and our employees. We believe this 

diversity also means we make better decisions. Our Board 

Diversity Policy received a 2013 Diversity in Governance 

Award presented by the Canadian Board Diversity Council. 
We compensate our directors and executives in ways 

that encourage good decisions
Our model for compensating directors and executives 
follows best practic
es for good governance. We use a 
pay-for-performance model that includes clawbacks and 

discourages unreasonable risk-taking. Directors and 

executives must own shares, to align their interests with 

those of other shareholders. We do not allow directors 

and employees to hedge their investments in our shares, 

securities or related financial instruments.
We maintain a strong focus on ethical conduct 

BMO’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides ethical 
guidance for the organization and is r
ooted in our core 
values. Every year, all directors and employees are required 

to declare that they have read, understood, complied with 

and will continue to comply with the code. The code is 

approved by our Board of Directors.
The Chief Ethics Officer is responsible for ensuring 
that awareness and understanding of ethical business 

principles are embedded in all aspects of our business, 

and regularly reports on the state of ethical conduct 
in the organization to the Audit and Conduct Review 

Committee of the board.  
An ethical culture requires an environment where concerns 

can be raised without fear of retaliation. We provide various 

means for raising concerns, including the ability to report 

them on an anonymous basis. All reports are investigated, and 

breaches of the code are dealt with swiftly and decisively.
   
Our board and management stay connected 

with our shareholders
We engage and inform our shareholders through our annual 

meeting of shareholders, annual report, management proxy 

circular, annual information form, sustainability report, 

corporate r
esponsibility report, quarterly reports, news 
releases, earnings conference calls, industry conferences 

and other meetings from time to time. Our website provides 

extensive information about the board, its mandate, the 

board committees and their charters, and our directors.
Corporate Governance
18  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
  19 20  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  21 Financial Review
Financial Review
22  Reasons to Invest in BMO

23  CFO’s Foreword to the Financial Review
24  
Financial Performance and Condition at a 
Glance
26  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis 
106  Supplemental Information
120 Statement of Management’s Responsibility 
for Financial Information
121 Independent Auditors’ Report of Registered 
Public Accounting Firm
122 Report of Independent Registered Public 
Accounting Firm 
123  Consolidated Financial Statements
128  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Resources and Directories

190 Glossary of Financial Terms

192 Where to Find More Information

IBC Shareholder Information
To promote alignment of our strategic goals across all our busines
ses, each director sits on at least one board committee and t
he Chief Executive 
Officer is invited to all committee meetings. We review the membership of all committees annually. 
Robert M. Astley
 Former President and Chief 

Executive Officer, Clarica Life 

Insurance Company, and former 

President, Sun Life 

Financial Canada

Board/Committees:
 Human 
Resources, Risk Re
view, 
The Pension Fund Society of the 

Bank of Montreal 

Director since:
 2004
Janice M. Babiak
 Former Managing Partner, 

Ernst & Young 

Board/Committ
ees:
 Audit and 
Conduct Revie
w, Risk Review
Other public boards:
 Experian PLC, 

Walgreens Co.
Director since:
 2012
Sophie Brochu
 President and Chief Executive 

Officer, Gaz Métro

Board/
Committees:
 Audit and 
Conduct Revie
w 
Other public boards:
 BCE Inc.

Director since:
 2011
George A. Cope
 President and Chief Executive 

Officer
, Bell Canada and BCE Inc.
Board/Committees:
 Human 
Resources 

Other public boards
: BCE Inc. 
Director since:
 2006
William A. Downe
 Chief Executive Officer, 

BMO Financial Group
Board/Committees:
 Attends all 

committ
ee meetings as an invitee
Other public boards:
 
ManpowerGroup

Director since:
 2007
Christine A. Edwards
 
Capital Partner, Winst
on & Strawn
Board/Committees:
 Governance 

and Nominating, Risk R
eview, The 
Pension Fund Society of 

the Bank of Montreal (Chair)

Director since:
 2010
Ronald H. Farmer
 Managing Direc
tor, 
Mosaic Capital Partners

Board/Committees:
 Audit 
and Conduct Review
, Governance 
and Nominating, Human 
Resources (Chair) 

Other public boards:
 Valeant 

Pharmaceuticals 

International Inc.

Director since:
 2003
Eric R. La Flèche
 President and Chief 

Executive Officer, Metro Inc.

Board/Committees:
 
Risk Review

Other public boards
: Metro Inc.

Director since:
 2012
Bruce H. Mitchell
 President and Chief Executive 

Officer
, Permian Industries Limited
Board/Committees:
 Audit and 

Conduct Revie
w, The Pension Fund 
Society of the Bank of Montreal

Director since:
 1999Philip S. Orsino, O.C., F.C.A.
 President and Chief Executive 

Officer
, Brightwaters Strategic 
Solutions Inc.

Board/Committees:
 Audit and 

Conduct Revie
w (Chair), 
Governance and Nominating 

Director since:
 1999Dr. Martha C. Piper, O.C., O.B.C.
 Corporate 
Director, former 

President and Vice-Chancellor, 

The University of British Columbia

Board/Committees:
 Governance 

and Nominating (Chair
), Human Resources

Other public boards:
 Shoppers 
Drug Mart Corporation, TransAlta 

Corporation

Director since:
 2006
J. Robert S. Prichard, O.C., O.Ont. 
Chairman of the Board, 

BMO Financial Group, 

and Chair of Torys LLP
Board/Committees:
 Governance 

and Nominating, Human 

Resources, Risk Review, The 
Pension Fund Society of the Bank 

of Montreal

Other public boards:
 George 

Weston Limited, 

Onex Corporation

Director since:
 2000
Don M. Wilson III
 Corporate 
Director

Board/
Committees:
 Governance 
and Nominating, Human 

Resources, Risk Review (Chair)
Director since:
 2008
Stephen E. Bachand, Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, USA 

Ralph M. Barford, Toronto, ON

Matthew W. Barrett, O.C., LL.D., Oakville, ON

David R. Beatty, O.B.E., Toronto, ON

Peter J.G. Bentley, O.C., O.B.C., LL.D., Vancouver, BC

Robert Chevrier, F.C.A., Montreal, QC

Tony Comper, C.M., LL.D., Toronto, ON

C. William Daniel, O.C., LL.D., Toronto, ON

Louis A. Desrochers, C.M., c.r., A.O.E., Edmonton, AB

A. John Ellis, O.C., LL.D., O.R.S., Vancouver, BC

John F. Fraser, O.C., LL.D., O.R.S., Winnipeg, MB

David A. Galloway, Toronto, ON

Richard M. Ivey, C.C., Q.C., Toronto, ON
Betty Kennedy, O.C., LL.D., Campbellville, ON

Harold N. Kvisle, Calgary, AB

Eva Lee Kwok, Vancouver, BC

J. Blair MacAulay, Oakville, ON

Ronald N. Mannix, O.C., Calgary, AB

Robert H. McKercher, Q.C., Saskatoon, SK

Eric H. Molson, Montreal, QC

Jerry E.A. Nickerson, North Sydney, NS

Jeremy H. Reitman, Montreal, QC

Lucien G. Rolland, O.C., Montreal, QC

Joseph L. Rotman, O.C., LL.D., Toronto, ON

Guylaine Saucier, F.C.P.A., F.C.A., C.M., Montreal, QC

Nancy C. Southern, Calgary, AB
1 As at October 31, 2014.
Honorary Directors 
Board of Directors
1Robert M. Astley
Sophie Brochu
William A. Downe
Ronald H. Farmer

Bruce H. Mitchell
Dr. Martha C. Piper
Don M. Wilson III
Janice M. Babiak
George A. Cope
Christine A. Edwards
Eric R. La Flèche

Philip S. Orsino

J. Robert S. Prichard
www.bmo.com/corporategovernance
22  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2
014  23 CFO’s Foreword to the Financial Review
BMO’s results in 2014 reflect good operating group 
performance and the momentum we have demonstrated 

over a number of consecutive quarters. BMO delivered 

record net income of $4.3 billion this year. On an adjusted 

basis, net income was up 5% to $4.5 billion. During the 

year, we grew adjusted EPS by 6%, announced two 

dividend increases, completed the acquisition of F&C Asset 

Management plc and strengthened our capital position.  
We continue to gene
rate attractive 
returns for BMO’s 
shareholders. Our one-year and five-year total shareholder 
returns were 17.1% and 15.5%, respectively. 
We have a long-standing commitment to ensuring that 
investors receive timely and informative reporting on 

our financial results. In Management’s Discussion and 

Analysis (MD&A), we examine our results and performance 

in detail. We are committed to telling our financial story 

clearly and thoroughly with high standards of governance 

and transparency. Our disclosures have been expanded over 

the past two years, reflecting in part recommendations 

issued by the Enhanced Disclosure Task Force (EDTF) of the 

Financial Stability Board. We support the recommendations 

of the EDTF and trust that the additional disclosures will 

be informative.
We have an advantaged business mix, geographic 

diversification and a customer vision that continues to 

provide attractive opportunities for growth: 
• Our proven strength in commercial banking across our North 
American platform positions us well in the current economic 
environment.
• Our largest business, Canadian Personal and Commercial 
Banking, had a record year with earnings of over $2 billion 

and 2% positive operating leverage.
• We have an award-winning wealth franchise with growth 
opportunities in North America and in select global markets.
• Against the backdrop of an improving U.S. economy, we 
expect continued growth from the investments we have 

made in our U.S. businesses. 
• We are focused on improving efficiency through our core 
operations and technology integration.
Looking forward, we intend to build on our success this year, 

continuing to manage our business responsibly while executing 

on our strategic priorities to deliver on our commitments to all 

of our stakeholders.
Thomas E. Flynn
Reasons to Invest in BMO
· Clear opportunities for growth across North America
· Large North American commercial banking business

· Good momentum in our well-established Canadian 
Personal and Commercial Banking business
· Award-winning wealth franchise with strong growth 
opportunities
· Operating leverage across our U.S. businesses

· Strong capital position and an attractive dividend yield

· Focus on efficiency through core operations and 
technology integration
· Industry-leading customer loyalty and a focus on 
customer experience
· Committed to the highest standards of business ethics 
and corporate governance
22  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
Thomas E. Flynn
Chief Financial Officer, BMO Financial Group
We are committed to telling our 
financial story clearly and thoroughly 

with high standards of governance 

and transparency.
24 BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
Financial Performance and Condition at a Glance
Our Performance 
(Note 1)
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
•  BMO shareholders have earned a strong average 
annual return of 16.7% over the past three years, 

above the 9.3% return on the S&P/TSX Composite Index.
•  The one-year TSR of 17.1% and the five-year average 

annual return of 15.5% both outperformed the 

comparable Canadian indices.
TSR 
(%)•  The Canadian peer group three-year average annual 

TSR was 18.0%. The one-y
ear TSR was 18.8% and the 
five-year average annual TSR was 15.1%. 
•  The North American peer group three-year average 

annual TSR was 26.0%, above the Canadian peer gr
oup average. The North American peer group one-year 
TSR of 18.0% and five-year average annual TSR of 13.5% 
were both below the corresponding Canadian peer 
group averages.
EPS Growth 
(%)•  The Canadian peer group average EPS growth was 

8%, with all but one bank in the peer group reporting 

incre
ases in EPS.
•  Average EPS growth for the North American peer group 

was 12%, driven by low
er provisions for credit losses 
for the majority of our U.S. peer banks.
ROE 
(%)•  The Canadian peer group average ROE of 17.3% was 

lower than the average return of 18.4% in 2013, as ROE 

declined for all but one bank in the peer group. 
•  Average ROE for the North American peer group was 

12.2%, relatively unchanged from 2013.
Revenue Growth 
(%)•  Revenue growth for the Canadian peer group averaged 

9%, significantly higher than the average gro
wth of 
4% in 2013.•  Average revenue growth for the North American peer 
group was 1%, a decline from 3% in 2013, with all but 

one of our U.S. peers reporting flat or lower revenues.
Efﬁ ciency Ratio 
(%)•  The Canadian peer group average efficiency ratio was 

59.5%, up slightly from 59.3% in 2013 as growth in 

expenses e
xceeded growth in revenue. 
•  The average efficiency ratio for the North American peer 

group was 62.6%, relativ
ely unchanged from the group’s 
average ratio of 62.7% in 2013, and worse than the 

average of our Canadian peer group.
Earnings per Share (EPS) Growth
•  Adjusted EPS grew $0.38 or 6% to $6.59, reflecting higher 

earnings. Reported EPS gre
w $0.24 or 4% to $6.41.
•  On an adjusted basis, higher revenues exceeded 

incremental costs in 2014. There w
ere higher provisions 
for credit losses, primarily due to lower recoveries, as well 

as lower securities gains and a lower effective tax rate.
Return on Equity (ROE)
•    Adjusted ROE was 14.4% and reported ROE was 14.0% 

in 2014, compared with 15.0% and 14.9%, re
spectively, 
in 2013. There was growth in both earnings and adjusted 

earnings available to common shareholders. There 

was also an increase in average common shareholders’ 

equity as a result of increased capital expectations 

for banks internationally.
•    
BMO has achieved an ROE of 13% or better in 24 of 
the past 25 years.
Revenue Growth
•   Adjusted revenue increased $1,346 million or 9% in 

2014 to $16,718 million. Report
ed revenue increased 
$655 million or 4% to $16,718 million. The increase 

was mainly due to revenue growth in Canadian P&C, 

Wealth Management and BMO Capital Markets.
Efficiency Ratio
(Expense-to-Revenue Ratio)
•  The adjusted efficiency ratio was 64.4%, an increase of 
90 basis points from 2013. The reported ef
ficiency ratio 
increased 160 basis points to 65.3%, as revenue growth was 
more than offset by expense growth, in part due to the impact 
of the stronger U.S. dollar and the acquired F&C business.
•  The adjusted efficiency ratio excluding PBCAE
* improved to 
59.1% in 2014, compared with 60.4% in 2013.
Note 1: Adjusted results in this section are non-GAAP. Please see the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 32. 
In 2013, we changed the methodology for the Canadian and North American peer group averages to a simple-average calculation fro
m a weighted-average 
calculation, and restated prior periods.

On November 1, 2013, BMO and our Canadian peers adopted several new and amended accounting pronouncements issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board. The consolidated ﬁ
 nancial statements for comparative periods in the ﬁ
 scal years 2013 and 2012 have been restated. U.S. peer group data 
continues to be reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 
BMO reported
BMO adjusted 

Canadian peer group average

North American peer group average
2014
2013
2012
94318142014
2013
2012
64.4
65.3
63.5
63.7
63.3
63.6
2014
2013
2012
14.4
14.0
15.0
14.9
15.5
15.9
BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014 
25 Our Performance 
(Note 1)
Provision for Credit Losses as a % of Average 
Net Loans and Acceptances
•  The Canadian peer group average PCL represented 
31 basis points of average ne
t loans and acceptances, 
down slightly from 33 basis points in 2013.
•  The North American peer group average PCL represented 

26 basis points, down from 36 basis points in 2013, and 
lower than the average PCL for the Canadian peer group.
Capital Adequacy•  The Canadian peer group average Basel III CET1 Ratio 

was 9.9% in 2014, compared with an a
verage CET1 Ratio 
of 9.2% a year ago.
•  The basis for computing capital adequacy ratios in Canada 

and the United States is no
t completely comparable. 
Capital Adequacy•  BMO’s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Ratio is strong 

and exceeds regulatory requirements. 
•  Our CET1 Ratio was 10.1%, up from 9.9% in 2013, 

primarily due to higher capital, partially offset by 

the impact of the F&C acquisition and a moderate 

increase in risk-weighted assets.
Credit Rating
 •  Credit ratings for BMO’s long-term debt, as assessed by the four major rating 

agencies, are listed belo
w and all four ratings are considered to indicate 
high-grade, high-quality issues. In June 2014, Moody’s affirmed its long-term 

ratings and changed its outlook to “negative” from “stable” on the supported 

senior debt and uninsured deposit ratings of BMO and six other large 

Canadian banks in light of previously announced plans by the Canadian 

federal government to implement a bail-in regime for domestic systemically 

important banks. In August 2014, S&P affirmed its long-term and short-term 

issuer credit ratings of BMO and revised its outlook for BMO and other 

Canadian banks to “negative” from “stable”, reflecting the possible impact 

of a bail-in policy proposal from the Canadian federal government. 
Credit Rating
•  The Canadian peer group median credit ratings were unchanged from 2013. 
•  The North American peer group median credit ratings were unchanged 
from 2013, and remain slightly lower than the median of the Canadian 
peer group for two of the ratings. 
The Canadian peer group averages exclude BMO and are based on the performance of Canada’s ﬁ
 ve other largest banks: Canadian Imperial Bank 
of Commerce, National Bank of Canada, Royal Bank of Canada, Scotiabank and TD Bank Group. The North American peer group averages are based on 
the performance of 12 of the largest banks in North America. These include the Canadian peer group, except National Bank of Can
ada, as well as 
BB&T Corporation, Bank of New York Mellon, Fifth Third Bancorp, KeyCorp, The PNC Financial Services Group Inc., Regions Financi
al, SunTrust Banks Inc. 
and U.S. Bancorp. 
Results are as at or for the years ended October 31 for Canadian banks and as at or for the years ended September 30 for U.S. banks.
2014
2013
2012
0.19
0.22
0.3
1P 31P 34P 36P 41P 33P 34, 64
P 1002014
2013
2012
10.8
16.7
11.5
Peer Group Performance
Peer Group Performance
All EPS measures are stated on a diluted basis.
Credit Losses
•   Provisions for credit losses (PCL) totalled $561 million, up 
from $357 million in 2013 on an adjust
ed basis and down 
from $587 million in 2013 on a reported basis. The increase 

in adjusted PCL was due to a significant reduction in recoveries 

on the purchased credit impaired loan portfolio and the impact 

of provisions on the purchased performing loan portfolio, offset 

in part by reduced provisions in Canadian P&C and U.S. P&C. 
•   PCL as a percentage of average net loans and acceptances 
improved to 19 basis points fr
om 22 basis points on a reported 
basis a year ago. This positive ratio trend reflects lower new 

provisions across both our consumer and commercial loan 

portfolios, compared to 2013.
2014
2013
2012
461426172014
2013
2012
*10.1
9.9
8.7
20142013AAAA
AA–Aa3A+AA–Aa3A+2012AAAA–Aa2A+DBRSFitch
Moody’sS&P20142012AAAA–Aa2AA–AAAA–Aa3A+2013AAAA–Aa3A+DBRS
Fitch
Moody’sS&P20142012AALAA–Aa3A+AALAA–A1A+2013AALAA–A1A+DBRS
Fitch
Moody’sS&PCanadian peer group median
*BMO Financial Group
North American peer gr
oup median*BMO reported
BMO adjusted 

Canadian peer group average

North American peer group average
P 40, 86
*Data for all years reﬂ ects the peer group composition in the most recent year.
North American peer group data is no
t to scale.
*2012 CET1 Ratio is on a pro-forma basis.
Graph shows average annual three-year TSR.
* This ratio is calculated excluding insurance policyholder benefits, 
claims and acquisition expenses (PBCAE).
Impaired Loans
•   Gross impaired loans and acceptances (GIL) decreased 
to $2,048 million from $2
,544 million in 2013, and 
represented 0.67% of gross loans and acceptances, 

compared with 0.91% a year ago.
•   Formations of new impaired loans and acceptances, 
a key driver of pr
ovisions for credit losses, totalled 
$2,142 million, down from $2,449 million in 2013, 
reflecting decreases in the formations in both our 

consumer and commercial portfolios.
Gross Impaired Loans and Acceptances as a % 
of Gross Loans and Acceptances
•  The Canadian peer group average ratio of GIL as a 
percentage of gross loans and acceptances was 0.59% 
in 2014, down slightly from 0.60% in 2013.
•  The average ratio for our North American peer group 
improved from 1.77% a year ago to 1.40% in 2014, 

but continues to be higher than the average for the 

Canadian peer group.
P 862014
2013
2012
0.67
0.91
1.17
MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
Management’sDiscussionandAnalysis
BMO’sChiefExecutiveOfficeranditsChiefFinancialOfficerhavesignedastatementoutliningmanagement’sresponsibilityforfinancialinformationin
theannualconsolidatedfinancialstatementsandManagement’sDiscussionandAnalysis(MD&A).Thestatement,whichcanbefoundonpage120,

alsoexplainstherolesoftheAuditandConductReviewCommitteeandBoardofDirectorsinrespectofthatfinancialinformation.
TheMD&AcommentsonBMO’soperationsandfinancialconditionfortheyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013.TheMD&Ashouldbereadin
conjunctionwithourconsolidatedfinancialstatementsfortheyea
rendedOctober31,2014.TheMD&AcommentaryisasofDecember2,2014.Unless

otherwiseindicated,allamountsarestatedinCanadiandollarsandhavebee
nderivedfromfinancialstatementspreparedinaccordancewithInterna
-tionalFinancialReportingStandards(IFRS).References
togenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples(GAAP)meanIFRS.
SinceNovember1,2011,BMO’sfinancialresultshavebeenreportedi
naccordancewithIFRS.Resultsforyearspriorto2011havenotbeen
restatedandarepresentedinaccordancewithCanadianGAAPasdefineda
tthattime(CGAAP).Assuch,certaingrowthratesandcompoundannual
growthrates(CAGR)maynotbemeaningful.OnNovember1,2013,BMOado
ptedseveralnewandamendedaccountingpronouncementsissuedby
theInternationalAccountingStandardsBoard.Theconsolidatedfinancialstatementsforcomparativeperiodsinthefiscalyears2013and2012have

beenrestated.TheimpactofadoptionisdiscussedinNote1onpage128of
thefinancialstatements.Certainotherprioryeardatahasalsobeen
reclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’spresentation,includingre
statementsarisingfrommethodologychangesandtransfersofcertainbu
si-
nessesbetweenoperatinggroups.Seepages42and43.
Index27WhoWeAre
providesanoverviewofBMOFinancialGroup,explains
thelinksbetweenourfinancialobjectivesandouroverallvision,and
outlines“ReasonstoInvestinBMO”alongwithrelevantkeyperform-

ancedata.
28Enterprise-WideStrategy
outlinesourenterprise-widestrategyand
thecontextinwhichitisdeveloped,aswellasourprogressinrelation

toourpriorities.
29CautionRegardingForward-LookingStatements
advisesreaders
aboutthelimitationsandinherentrisksanduncertaintiesofforward-

lookingstatements.
30EconomicDevelopmentsandOutlook
includescommentaryonthe
Canadian,U.S.andinternationaleconomiesin2014andourexpect-

ationsfor2015.
31ValueMeasures
reviewsfinancialperformanceonthefourkey
measuresthatassessormostdirectlyinfluenceshareholderreturn.It

alsoincludesexplanationsofnon-GAAPmeasures,areconciliationto

theirGAAPcounterpartsforthefiscalyear,andasummaryofadjusting

itemsthatareexcludedfromresultstoassistinthereviewofkey

measuresandadjustedresults.
31TotalShareholderReturn
32Non-GAAPMeasures
33SummaryFinancialResultsandEarningsperShareGrowth
34ReturnonEquity
34BaselIIICommonEquityTier1Ratio
352014FinancialPerformanceReview
providesadetailedreviewof
BMO’sconsolidatedfinancialperformancebymajorincomestatement

category.Italsoincludessummariesoftheimpactofbusinessacquis-

itionsandchangesinforeignexchangerates.
422014OperatingGroupsPerformanceReview
outlinesthestrategies
andkeyprioritiesofouroperatinggroupsandthechallengestheyface,

alongwiththeirstrengthsandvaluedrivers.Italsoincludesasummary

oftheirachievementsin2014,theirfocusfor2015,andareviewof

theirfinancialperformancefortheyearandthebusinessenvironment

inwhichtheyoperate.
42Summary
44PersonalandCommercialBanking
45CanadianPersonalandCommercialBanking
48U.S.PersonalandCommercialBanking
51BMOWealthManagement
54BMOCapitalMarkets
57CorporateServices,includingTechnologyandOperations
58SummaryQuarterlyEarningsTrends,ReviewofFourthQuarter
2014Performance
and2013FinancialPerformanceReview
providecommentaryonresultsforrelevan
tperiodsotherthanfiscal2014.
62FinancialConditionReview
commentsonourassetsandliabilities
bymajorbalancesheetcategory.Itincludesareviewofourcapital

adequacyandourapproachtooptimizingourcapitalpositionto

supportourbusinessstrategiesandmaximizereturnstoourshare-

holders.Italsoincludesareviewo
foff-balancesheetarrangements
andcertainselectfinancialinstruments.
62SummaryBalanceSheet
64Enterprise-WideCapitalManagement
69SelectFinancialInstruments
70Off-BalanceSheetArrangements
71AccountingMattersandDisclosureandInternalControl
reviewscriticalaccountingestimatesandchangesinaccountingpoliciesin

2014andforfutureperiods.Italsooutlinesourevaluationofdis-

closurecontrolsandproceduresan
dinternalcontroloverfinancial
reporting,andprovidesanindexofdisclosuresrecommendedbythe

EnhancedDisclosureTaskForce.
71CriticalAccountingEstimates
73ChangesinAccountingPoliciesin2014
73FutureChangesinAccountingPolicies
73TransactionswithRelatedParties
73Management’sAnnualReportonDisclosureControlsandProcedures

andInternalControloverFinancialReporting
74Shareholders’Auditors’ServicesandFees
75EnhancedDisclosureTaskForce
77Enterprise-WideRiskManagement
outlinesourapproachto
managingkeyfinancialrisksandotherrelatedrisksweface.
78Overview78RisksThatMayAffectFutureResults
80FrameworkandRisks
84CreditandCounterpartyRisk
91MarketRisk
95LiquidityandFundingRisk
101OperationalRisk
102InsuranceRisk
102LegalandRegulatoryRisk
103BusinessRisk
103ModelRisk
104StrategicRisk
105ReputationRisk
105EnvironmentalandSocialRisk
106SupplementalInformation
presentsotherusefulfinancialtables
andmorehistoricaldetail.
RegulatoryFilings
Ourcontinuousdisclosurematerials,includingourinterimfinancialstatementsandinterimMD&A,annualauditedconsolidatedfinancialstatementsandannualMD&A,

AnnualInformationFormandNoticeofAnnualMeetingofShareholdersandManagementProxyCircular,areavailableonourwebsiteatwww.bmo.com/investorrelations,

ontheCanadianSecuritiesAdministrators’websiteatwww.sedar.comandontheEDGARsectionoftheSEC’swebsiteatwww.sec.gov.BMO’sChiefExecutiveOfficerandits

ChiefFinancialOfficercertifytheappropriatenessandfairnessofBMO’sannualandinterimconsolidatedfinancialstatements,MD&AandAnnualInformationForm,andthe

effectivenessofBMO’sdisclosurecontrolsandproceduresandmaterialchangesinourinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
26BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AWhoWeAre
Establishedin1817,BMOFinancialGroupisahighlydiversifiedfinancialservicesproviderbasedinNorthAmerica.Withtotalassetsof$589billio
nand
morethan46,000employees,BMOprovidesabroadrangeofretailbankin
g,wealthmanagementandinvestmentbankingproductsandservicesto
morethan12millioncustomers.Weservemorethansevenmillioncustomers
acrossCanadathroughourCanadianretailarm,BMOBankofMontreal.
Wealsoservecustomersthroughourwealthmanagementbusinesses:BMONesbittBurns,BMOInves
torLine,BMOPrivateBanking,BMOGlobalAsset
ManagementandBMOInsurance.BMOCapitalMarkets,ourinvestmentandco
rporatebankingandtradingproductsdivision,providesafullsuiteof
financialproductsandservicestoNorthAmericanandinternationalclient
s.IntheUnitedStates,BMOservescustomersthroughBMOHarrisBank,bas
edintheU.S.Midwestwithmorethantwomillionretail,smallbusinessandcomme
rcialcustomers.BMOFinancialGroupconductsbusinessthroughthree
operatinggroups:PersonalandCommercialBanking,WealthManagementandBMOCapitalMarkets.
OurFinancialObjectives
BMO’smedium-termfinancialobjectivesforcertainimportantperform-
ancemeasuresaresetoutbelow.Webelievethatwewilldeliver

top-tiertotalshareholderreturnandmeetourmedium-termfinancial

objectivesbyaligningouroperationswith,andexecutingon,our

strategicpriorities,alongwithourvisionandguidingprinciple,asout-

linedonthefollowingpage.Weconsidertop-tierreturnstobe

top-quartileshareholderreturnsrelativetoourCanadianandNorth

Americanpeergroup.
BMO’sbusinessplanningprocessisrigorousandconsidersthe
prevailingeconomicconditions,ourriskappetite,ourcustomers’

evolvingneedsandtheopportunitiesavailableacrossourlinesofbusi-

ness.Itincludesclearanddirectaccountabilityforannualperformance

thatismeasuredagainstbothinternalandexternalbenchmarksand

progresstowardourstrategicpriorities.
Overthemediumterm,ourfinancialobjectivesonanadjustedbasis
aretoachieveaverageannualearningspershare(adjustedEPS)growth

of7%to10%,earnanaverageannualreturnonequity(adjustedROE)of

between15%and18%,generateaverageannualoperatingleverageof

2%ormoreandmaintainstrongcapitalratiosthatexceedregulatory

requirements.Theseobjectivesarekeyguidepostsasweexecuteagainst

ourstrategicpriorities.Ouroperatingphilosophyistoincreaserevenues

atrateshigherthangeneraleconomicgrowthrates,whilelimiting

expensegrowthtoachieveaverageannualadjustedoperatingleverage.

Inmanagingouroperations,webala
ncecurrentprofitabilitywiththe
needtobothinvestinourbusinessesforfuturegrowthandmanagerisk.
ReasonstoInvestinBMO
‰ClearopportunitiesforgrowthacrossadiversifiedNorth
Americanfootprint:
OLargeNorthAmericancommercialbankingbusinesswith
advantagedmarketshare.
OGoodmomentuminourwell-establishedCanadianPersonal

andCommercialBankingbusiness.
OAward-winningwealthfranchisewithstronggrowthoppor-

tunitiesinNorthAmericaandselectglobalmarkets.
OOperatingleverageacrossourU.S.businesses.
‰Strongcapitalpositionandanattractivedividendyield.
‰Focusonefficiencythroughcoreoperationsandtechnology
integration,particularlyforretailbusinessesacrossNorth

America.‰Industry-leadingcustomerloyaltyandafocusoncustomer

experiencetoincreasemarketshareanddriverevenuegrowth.
‰Committedtothehigheststandardsofbusinessethicsand

corporategovernance.
AsatandfortheperiodsendedOctober31,2014
(%,exceptasnoted)1-year5-year*10-year*
Averageannualtotalshareholderreturn
17.115.58.4
CompoundgrowthinannualEPS
3.915.83.8
CompoundgrowthinannualadjustedEPS
6.110.44.4
AverageannualROE
14.015.015.0
AverageannualadjustedROE
14.415.216.2
Compoundgrowthinannual
dividendsdeclaredpershare
4.81.96.8
Dividendyield**
3.84.44.5
Price-to-earningsmultiple**
12.811.812.8
Marketvalue/bookvalueratio**
1.701.621.78
CommonEquityTier1Ratio(BaselIIIbasis)10.1
nana
*5-yearand10-yeargrowthratesreflectgrowthbasedonCGAAPin2009and2004,
respectively,andIFRSin2014.
**1-yearmeasureasatOctober31,2014.5-yearand10-yearmeasuresaretheaverageof
year-endvalues.
na–notapplicable
InOurFinancialObjectivessectionaboveandtheEnterprise-WideStrategyandEconomicDevelopmentsandOutlooksectionsthatfollowcontaincertainforward-looking
statements.Bytheirnature,forward-lookingstatementsrequireustomakeassumptionsandaresubjecttoinherentrisksanduncertainties.PleaserefertotheCaution

RegardingForward-LookingStatementsonpage29ofthisMD&Aforadiscussionofsuchrisksanduncertaintiesandthematerialfactorsandassumptionsrelatedtothe

statementssetforthinsuchsections.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
27MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
Enterprise-WideStrategy
OurVision
Tobethebankthatdefinesgreatcustomerexperience.
OurGuidingPrinciple
Weaimtodelivertop-tiertotalshareholderreturnandbalanceourcommitmentstofinancialperformance,ourcustomersandemployees,the
environmentandthecommunitieswhereweliveandwork.
OurStrategyinContext
Customersareredefiningtheirexpectationsofthebankingindustryinrealtime.Amidstthischange,wehaveevolvedourbrandpositioninthebelief

thatmoneyispersonal,andabankshouldbe,too.Groundedinourvision,
We’reheretohelp
isasimplestatementmeanttoinspireandguidewhat
wedoeveryday.Weaimtohelpcustomersfeelvalued,understoodandconfidentinthedecisionstheymake.
Ourstrategicprioritieshaveproventoberobustinthemidstofevolvingexpectations,strongcompetitiveactivityandcontinuedmarket
uncertainty.Webelievethatthestrengthofourbusinessmodel,balancesheet,riskmanagementframeworkandleadershipteam,alongwiththe

advantagesofferedbythescaleofourconsolidatedNorthAmericanplatform,willcontinuetogeneratesustainablegrowthandhelpusdeliveronour

visionandbrandpromise.
Ourcommitmenttostakeholdersisevidentinourfocusondeliveringanindustry-leadingcustomerexperience,managingrevenueandexpenses
toachieveourfinancialgoals,andmaintainingaprudentapproachtoriskmanagement.Wearemakinggoodprogressonourenterprisestrategic

priorities,withselectaccomplishmentsoutlinedbelow,aswellasonourgroupstrategies,detailedinthe2014OperatingGroupsPerformance

Review,whichstartsonpage42.
OurPrioritiesandProgress
1.Achieveindustry-leadingcustomerloyaltybydeliveringonour
brandpromise.
‰Developedcapabilitiesindigitalbankingandinvestingtohelp
customersinnewandinnovativeways:
oRefreshedourpublicwebsites,bmo.comandbmoharris.com,with

abrand-aligneduserinterfaceandupdatednavigation,enabling

customerstogetthehelpandinformationtheyneed.
oEnhancedourCanadianmobilebankingapplicationwithasimple

interfaceandnewcapabilities,includingallowingcustomersto

sendInterac
®e-Transfersandbookbranchappointmentsany-
where,anytime.Theupdatedapplicationhasbeenwellreceived

bycustomers,andthenumberofmobiletransactionshasnearly

doubledoverthepastyear.
oBecamethefirstCanadianbanktogivecustomerstheabilityto

transfermoneybetweenCanadianandU.S.dollaraccountsthrough

ourCanadianmobilebankingapplication.
oLaunchedanintegratedPersonalBankingandInvestorLinetablet

applicationwithenhancedfunctionality,allowingcustomersto

seamlesslyaccessbankingandinvestingservicesonlinethrougha

singlesecurechannel.
oAddedautomatedbankingmachine(ABM)chequeimagecapture

capabilityatmorethan500ABMsintheUnitedStates.
oInIllinois,launchedBMOHarrisHealthyCredit
TM,aninnovative
serviceofferingthateducatescustomersabouttheircreditscores

whentheyopenanaccount.
‰Sponsoredavarietyoffinancialeducationandhomeownership

workshopsthroughoutourU.S.marketaspartoftheFederalReserve

Bank’sMoneySmartWeek.
‰AcrossNorthAmerica,sponsoredthesecondannualTalkWithOur

KidsAboutMoneyDay
,offeringtoolsandresourcestoraisefinancial
awarenessamongchildren.
‰Enhancedourcustomerloyaltymeasurementprogramtoprovidea

deeperunderstandingofloyaltydriversandmoretimelymeasure-

mentatbothafullrelationshipandtransactionlevel,allowingusto

continueimprovingourcustomers’experience.
‰InWealthManagement,launchedanewwebpagedesignedto

educateandrecruitwomenforinvestmentadvisorycareers,making

BMOthefirstCanadianfinancialinstitutiontoofferawebsitefocused

exclusivelyoneducatingwomenaboutopportunitieswithinthe

financialservicesindustry.
‰Continuedtodevelopnewproductsdesignedtorespondtoclients’

emergingneeds,includingthelaunchofsevennewexchangetraded

funds(ETFs)thisyear.AssetsundermanagementinourETFlineof

businesshavegrowntoover$17billion,a45%increaseover

lastyear.
‰Recognizedwithawardsacrossourgroups,includingBestWealth

ManagementinCanada,2014(
GlobalBankingandFinanceReview
),BestPrivateBankinCanada,2014
(WorldFinanceMagazine
andGlobalBankingandFinanceReview),
BestFull-ServiceInvestment
AdvisoryinCanada
(GlobalBankingandFinanceReview)
,2014
GreenwichQualityLeaderforCanadianFixedIncomeResearch,Cana-

dianEquitySales,CanadianEquityResearchandAnalystService,

CanadianMergers&AcquisitionsandCanadianEquityCapitalMarkets

(GreenwichAssociates)
andWorld’sBestMetals&MiningInvestment
Bank(GlobalFinance)
forthefifthconsecutiveyear.
2.Enhanceproductivitytodriveperformanceandshareholder
value.Althoughwedidnothavepositiveoperatingleveragethisyear,

wemadesignificantprogressonarangeofproductivityinitiatives

asfollows:
‰InPersonalandCommercialBanking(P&C),wecontinuedtomake
improvementstoourprocesses,enablingfront-lineemployeestoadd

newcustomersandstrengthenexistingrelationships:
oInCanadianP&C,implementedanewcommerciallendingplatform,

enablingconsistentprocessexecutionandabettercustomer

experience.Alsocompletedthemigrationofretailcreditcard

accountstoabetterplatformprovidingnewfunctionality,including

enhancedriskmanagementcapabilities.
oInU.S.P&C,enhancedtrainingforourtreasurysalesforce,which

resultedinproductivitygainsof22%forcommercialbankingand

53%forbusinessbanking,comparedtotheprioryear.
oInCanadianP&C,ourleadsmanagementenginecontinuedto

provideourcustomerswithrelevantandtimelyoffersandservices,

increasingshareofwalletandcontributingtothepersonalbanking

revenuegrowthachievedin2014.
oInCanadianP&C,expandedrelationshipswithourcustomersand

streamlinedorganizationalstructuresandprocesses,resultingin

continuedstrongvolumegrowthandgreatersalesforceproductivity.
28BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&A‰Reviewedourcoststructuretofindgreaterefficiency:
oContinuedtorolloutnewbranchformatsofferingsmaller,more
flexibleandmorecost-effectivepointsofdistributionacrossNorth

America.oImprovedtechnologicalandanalyticalcapabilities,whichinturn

improvedoversightandmanagementofBMO’sprocurement

expenses,includingtravel,recruitmentandprintservices.
‰Grewourdistributioncapacity:
oContinuedtobuildsalescapacityinourNorthAmericanbranch

network,openingorupgradingmorethan130branchesand

expandingourABMnetwork.
oImprovedonlinesalesprocesses,resultingingreatersalesvolumes

onouronlinechannel.Onlineretailbankingsaleslevelsacross

CanadaandtheUnitedStatesarenowequivalenttosalesat

over120branches.
3.LeverageourconsolidatedNorthAmericanplatformtodeliver
qualityearningsgrowth.
‰ContinuedtodevelopconsolidatedNorthAmericancapabilitiesand

platformsinpriorityareas:
oDevelopedconsistentbrandinginCanadianandU.S.P&Cbusi-

nesses,buildingoncommoncustomerinsightsandchanging

expectationsofthebankingindustry.
oMaintainedkeyNorth-Southleadershipmandatestoachieve

greaterconsistencyandeliminateduplication.
‰ContinuedtoexpandourbusinessandcapabilitiesintheUnited

States:oInPremierServices,ourmassaffluentclientservicemodelplaced

morethan100banker-advisorteamsinmarketsacrossthe

country.Thisprogramprovidesclientswithpersonalized,holistic

financialsolutions.
oIncreasedtotalsalesgeneratedpermortgagebankerby37%

throughenhancedcoachingfocusedontherealtorandpurchase

businessandamoreeffectiveapproachtothecreditapproval

process.oPostedourbesteverinvestmentbankingperformanceinthe

UnitedStates,withrecordrevenueperformanceforMergers&

Acquisitions,Acquisitions&DivestituresandEquityCapitalMarkets.
‰IntroducedcompellingoffersinCanadathatincreasedsalesand

establishedandstrengthenedclientrelationships,includingtheBMO

WorldEliteMasterCardUPGRADE,ourSpringHomeFinancingand

SummerEverydayBankingcampaigns.
4.Expandstrategicallyinselectglobalmarketstocreate
futuregrowth.
‰CompletedtheacquisitionofF&CAssetManagementplc(F&C).This

acquisitionstrengthensthepositionofBMOGlobalAssetManage-

mentasagloballysignificantmoneymanager,addingscale,capa-

bilitiesandresourcestoitsassetmanagementplatformand

providingattractivecross-sellingopportunities.
‰RankedamongTop20globalinvestmentbanks,and13th-largest

investmentbankinNorthandSouthAmericabasedonfeesby

ThomsonReuters.
‰ExpandedourCapitalMarketsfootprintinLondon,thehubofour

Europe,MiddleEastandAfricaactivi
ty,supportingourfocusedleader-
shipexpertiseandenhancingourabilitytoexecuteglobaldeals.
‰AddedTradeFinancecapabilitiesinHongKong,furtherstrengthening

ouroverallAsiaplatform.
5.Ensureourstrengthinriskmanagementunderpinseverything
wedoforourcustomers.
‰SignificantlyreducedourU.S.impairedloanportfolio.
‰ReceivedapprovaltousetheAdvancedMeasurementApproachto

manageoperationalrisk.
‰Furtherembeddedourriskcultureacrosstheenterprisewiththe

rotationofmorethan100employeesandexecutivesacrossrisk

managementandtheoperatinggroups.
‰Enhancedourriskappetiteframeworkwithstrongerlinkagesto

strategicplanning,performancemanagementandcompensation.
‰Continuedtodevelopourriskinfrastructuretosupporttheefficiency

andeffectivenessofriskmanagement.
FactorsThatMayAffectFutureResults

AsnotedinthefollowingCautionRegardingForward-LookingState-

ments,allforward-lookingstatementsandinformation,bytheirnature,

aresubjecttoinherentrisksanduncertainties,bothgeneralandspecific,

whichmaycauseactualresultstodiffermateriallyfromtheexpect-

ationsexpressedinanyforward-lookingstatement.TheEnterprise-Wide
RiskManagementsectionstartingonpage77describesanumberof

risks,includingcreditandcounterparty,market,liquidityandfunding,

operational,insurance,legalandregulatory,business,model,strategic,

reputation,environmentalandsocial.Shouldourriskmanagement

frameworkproveineffective,therecouldbeamaterialadverseimpact

onourfinancialposition.
CautionRegardingForward-LookingStatements
BankofMontreal’spubliccommunicationsoftenincludewrittenororalforward-lookingstatements.Statementsofthistypeareincludedinthisdocument,andmaybeincluded
inotherfilingswithCanadiansecuritiesregulatorsortheU.S.SecuritiesandExchangeCommission,orinothercommunications.Allsuchstatementsaremadepursuanttothe

“safeharbor”provisionsof,andareintendedtobeforward-lookingstatementsunder,theUnitedStates
PrivateSecuritiesLitigationReformActof1995
andanyapplicable
Canadiansecuritieslegislation.Forward-lookingstatementsmayinvolve,butarenotlimitedto,commentswithrespecttoourobjectivesandprioritiesfor2015andbeyond,our

strategiesorfutureactions,ourtargets,expectationsforourfinancialconditionorshareprice,andtheresultsoforoutlookforouroperationsorfortheCanadian,U.S.and

internationaleconomies.
Bytheirnature,forward-lookingstatementsrequireustomakeassumptionsandaresubjecttoinherentrisksanduncertainties.Thereissignificantriskthatpredictions,
forecasts,conclusionsorprojectionswillnotprovetobeaccurate,thatourassumptionsmaynotbecorrectandthatactualresultsmaydiffermateriallyfromsuchpredictions,

forecasts,conclusionsorprojections.Wecautionreadersofthisdocumentnottoplaceunduerelianceonourforward-lookingstatementsasanumberoffactorscouldcause

actualfutureresults,conditions,actionsoreventstodiffermateriallyfromthetargets,expectations,estimatesorintentionsexpressedintheforward-lookingstatements.
Thefutureoutcomesthatrelatetoforward-lookingstatementsmaybeinfluencedbymanyfactors,includingbutnotlimitedto:generaleconomicandmarketconditionsin
thecountriesinwhichweoperate;weak,volatileorilliquidcapitaland/orcreditmarkets;interestrateandcurrencyvaluefluctuations;changesinmonetary,fiscaloreconomic

policy;thedegreeofcompetitioninthegeographicandbusinessareasinwhichweoperate;changesinlawsorinsupervisoryexpectationsorrequirements,includingcapital,

interestrateandliquidityrequirementsandguidance;judicialorregulatoryproceedings;theaccuracyandcompletenessoftheinformationweobtainwithrespecttoour

customersandcounterparties;ourabilitytoexecuteourstrategicplansandtocompleteandintegrateacquisitions,includingobtainingregulatoryapprovals;criticalaccounting

estimatesandtheeffectofchangestoaccountingstandards,rulesandinterpretationsontheseestimates;operationalandinfrastructurerisks;changestoourcreditratings;

generalpoliticalconditions;globalcapitalmarketsactivities;thepossibleeffectsonourbusinessofwarorterroristactivities;diseaseorillnessthataffectslocal,nationalor

internationaleconomies;naturaldisastersanddisruptionstopublicinfrastructure,suchastransportation,communications,powerorwatersupply;technologicalchanges;andour

abilitytoanticipateandeffectivelymanagerisksassociatedwithalloftheforegoingfactors.
Wecautionthattheforegoinglistisnotexhaustiveofallpossiblefactors.Otherfactorsandriskscouldadverselyaffectourresults.Formoreinformation,pleaseseethe
discussionintheRisksThatMayAffectFutureResultssectiononpage78,andthecreditandcounterparty,market,liquidityandfunding,operational,insurance,legalandregu-

latory,business,model,strategic,reputation,andenvironmentalandsocialrisksectionsstartingonpage84,whichoutlineindetailcertainofthesekeyfactorsandrisksthat
mayaffectBankofMontreal’sfutureresults.Whenrelyingonforward-lookingstatementstomakedecisionswithrespecttoBankofMontreal,investo
rsandothersshouldcare-
fullyconsiderthesefactorsandrisks,aswellasotheruncertaintiesandpotentialevents,andtheinherentuncertaintyofforward-lookingstatements.BankofMontrealdoesnot
undertaketoupdateanyforward-lookingstatements,whetherwrittenororal,thatmaybemadefromtimetotimebytheorganizationoronitsbehalf,exceptasrequiredby

law.Theforward-lookinginformationcontainedinthisdocumentispresentedforthepurposeofassistingourshareholdersinunderstandingourfinancialpositionasatandfor

theperiodsendedonthedatespresented,aswellasourstrategicprioritiesandobjectives,andmaynotbeappropriateforotherpurposes.
Assumptionsaboutthelevelofdefaultandlossesondefaultwerematerialfactorsweconsideredwhenestablishingourexpectationsregardingthefutureperformanceof
thetransactionsintowhichourcreditprotectionvehiclehasentered.Amongthekeyassumptionswerethatthelevelofdefaultandlossesondefaultwouldbeconsistentwith

historicalexperience.Materialfactorsthatweretakenintoaccountwhenestablishingourexpectationsregardingtheriskoffuturecreditlossesinourcreditprotectionvehicle

andriskoflosstoBankofMontrealincludedindustrydiversificationintheportfolio,initialcreditqualitybyportfolio,thefirst-lossprotectionincorporatedintothestructureand
thehedgesintowhichBankofMontrealhasentered.
AssumptionsabouttheperformanceoftheCanadianandU.S.economies,aswellasoverallmarketconditionsandtheircombinedeffectonourbusiness,
arematerialfac-
torsweconsiderwhendeterminingourstrategicpriorities,objectivesandexpectationsforourbusiness.Indeterminingourexpectationsforeconomicgrowth,bothbroadlyand

inthefinancialservicessector,weprimarilyconsiderhistoricaleconomicdataprovidedbytheCanadianandU.S.governmentsandtheiragencies.S
eetheEconomicDevelop-
mentsandOutlooksectionofthisdocument.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
29MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
EconomicDevelopmentsandOutlook
EconomicandFinancialServicesDevelopmentsin2014
Afterstrengtheningin2013,therateofeconomicgrowthinCanada
improvedfurthertoapproximately2.4%in2014.Despitecontinued

weaknessintheEurozoneeconomyandslowergrowthinChina,Cana-

dianexportspickedupinresponsetostrongerU.S.demandanda

weakerCanadiandollar.Inaddition,risingenergyoutputdroverapid

growthinAlberta’seconomy.Consumerspendingremainedrobust,led

byrecordnumbersofmotorvehiclesales,althoughelevateddebtlevels

continuedtocurbpersonalloangrowth.Whilehousingmarkets

strengthenedinafewmajorcities,activityslowedorremainedmodest

inmostregions,keepingresidentialmortgagegrowthsteadyatapprox-

imately5%.Householdcreditqualityremainedsolid,withdelinquency

ratesoncreditcardloansandresidentialmortgagestrendingbelow

historicalaverages.Despiteweakerbusinessinvestment,commercial

loandemandcontinuestogrowatahealthyrateduetolowinterest

ratesandattractivefinancingconditions.Demandfornon-residential

mortgageshasbeensupportedbylowcommercialrealestatevacancy

rates.Personaldepositgrowthcontinuedtomoderate,inpartreflecting

depositors’preferenceforhigher-yieldingassetsandmutualfunds.By

contrast,asharpincreaseincorporateprofitssupportedbusiness

depositgrowth.Theunemploymentratefelltoasix-yearlowof6.5%in

October,asemploymentgrowthpickedupevenascompaniesstroveto

improveproductivityandcompetitiveness.Althoughinflationrose

moderately,theBankofCanadahelditsovernightinterestratetargetat

1%forafourthconsecutiveyearinresponsetoweakerjobgrowth.

Longer-terminterestratesdeclined,reflectingmoreaggressivemone-

taryeasingintheUnitedStatesandlowerinterestratesintheEurozone

andJapan.Inaddition,geopoliticalconflictsthreatentoslowthe

globaleconomy.
TherateofeconomicgrowthintheUnitedStatesremained
moderateatapproximately2.3%in2014,largelyasaresultofsevere

winterweatherinthefirstquarter,butreboundedstronglyinthe

secondquarterduetoanupswinginmotorvehiclesalesandbusiness

spending.Demandforcommercialcreditandautomotivefinancing

strengthenedandgrowthinconsumercreditgainedmomentum.

However,slowerhousingmarketactivity,dueinparttotightermort-

gagelendingrules,restrainedresidentialloandemandgrowth.

Employmentgrowthwasrelativelystrong,withtheunemploymentrate

reachingasix-yearlowof5.8%inOctoberfrom7.2%ayearearlier.The

FederalReservemaintaineditsnear-zerointerestratepolicyforasixth

consecutiveyear,butendeditslong-standingprogramtopurchasefixed

incomesecurities.Longer-terminterestratesdeclinedinresponseto

expansionarymonetarypoliciesinEuropeandJapan.
IntheU.S.Midwest,whichincludesthesixcontiguousstatesin
BMO’sU.S.footprint,theeconomygrewinlinewiththenational

average,supportedbylessrestrictivefiscalpolicies,anupturnin

businessspendingandcontinuedexpansionintheautomobileand

housingindustries.
EconomicandFinancialServicesOutlookfor2015
EconomicgrowthinCanadaisexpectedtoreach2.4%inthecoming

year,ledbygrowthinexportsinresponsetothestrengtheningU.S.

economyandaweakerCanadiandollar.Improvedexportsareexpected

tosupportbusinessspendingandcommercialloangrowth,though

loweroilpriceswillslowinvestmentintheenergysector.Highlevelsof

householddebtandexpectedmoderateincreasesininterestrateswill

likelydampenconsumerspendingandhousingmarketactivity,

restrainingpersonalloanandmortgagedemand.Afirmereconomyis

expectedtoreducetheunemploymentrateslightlyfurtherto6.4%by

theendof2015andprompttheBankofCanadatoraiseinterestratesin

thefall.TheCanadiandollarisprojectedtoweakenmoderatelyfurther

duetothetradedeficitandlong-terminterestratesthatarehigherin

theUnitedStatesthaninCanada.
EconomicgrowthintheUnitedStatesisprojectedtoreach3%in
2015,loweringtheunemploymentrateto5%byDecember2015.Rela-

tivelylowinterestrates,lowergasolineprices,improvedhousehold

financesandpent-updemandforautomobilesshouldencouragea

pickupinconsumerspendingandpersonalloangrowth.Demandfor
residentialmortgageswilllikelygrowashousingaffordabilityremains

healthy.Lowervacancyratesforcommercialandindustrialproperties

shouldsupportgrowthinnon-residentialconstruction.Animproving

economyandeasiercreditconditionsshouldcontinuetosustaingrowth

inbusinessinvestmentandloans.TheFederalReserveisexpectedto

raisethefederalfundsratebythemiddleof2015,resultinginmoderate

upwardpressureonlonger-terminterestrates.GrowthintheU.S.

Midwesteconomyisexpectedtoclimbto2.7%in2015,supportedby

ongoingexpansionintheautomobileindustry,continuedstrengthin

businessspendingandimprovedglobaldemand.
Real Growth in Gross Domestic Product(%)CanadaUnited States
*Forecast201220132014*2015*
1.92.32.02.22.42.32.43.0The Canadian and U.S. economies are expected to
strengthen in 2015. *Forecast100
150
200
250
05001000
1500Housing Starts (in thousands)
CanadaUnited States
08091011121314*15*
Housing market activity shouldmoderate in Canada but
strengthen in the United States.Canadian and U.S. 

Interest Rates
(%)Canadian overnight 
rateU.S. federal funds 
rate*ForecastOct2015*Oct2014Oct2013Jan20130.130.630.130.131.001.001.001.25Central banks will likely
raise interest rates moderately

in 2015.Canadian and U.S. Unemployment Rates(%)CanadaUnited States
*ForecastOct2015*Oct2014Oct2013Jan20137.07.97.07.26.55.86.45.1Unemployment rates in Canada and the United States 
are projected to decline further.Consumer Price IndexInflation(%)*ForecastCanadaUnited States
201220132014*2015*
1.52.10.91.51.9Inflation is expected to remainlow.Canadian/U.S. Dollar 

Exchange Rates
Oct2013Jan2013OctOct
2014*Forecast0.991.041.121.18 2015*The Canadian dollar is expected
to weaken further against the 
U.S. dollar.2.01.72.0Note:Datapointsareaveragesforthemonth,quarteroryear,asappropriate.Referencestoyears
arecalendaryears.
30BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AValueMeasures
TotalShareholderReturn
Theaverageannualtotalshareholderreturn(TSR)isakeymeasureof
shareholdervalue,andisconfirmationthatourstrategicprioritiesdrive

valuecreationforourshareholders.Ourone-yearTSRof17.1%andour

five-yearaverageannualTSRof15.5%werestrong,andbothout-

performedthecomparableCanadianindices.Ourthree-yearaverage

annualTSRof16.7%wasalsostrong,outperformingtheoverallmarket

returninCanada,despitebeinglowerthantheS&P/TSXFinancialServ-

icesIndex.
ThetablebelowsummarizesdividendspaidonBMOcommon
sharesoverthepastfiveyearsandthemovementsinBMO’sshare

price.Aninvestmentof$1,000inBMOcommonsharesmadeatthe

beginningoffiscal2010wouldhavebeenworth$2,055atOctober31,

2014,assumingreinvestmentofdividends,foratotalreturnof105.5%.
OnDecember2,2014,BMOannouncedthattheBoardofDirectors
haddeclaredaquarterlydividendpayabletocommonshareholdersof

$0.80percommonshare,anincreaseof$0.02pershareor3%fromthe

priorquarterandup$0.04pershareor5%fromayearago.Thedivi-

dendispayableFebruary26,2015toshareholdersofrecordon

February2,2015.Wehaveincreasedourquarterlydividenddeclared

threetimesoverthepasttwoyearsfrom$0.72percommonsharefor

thefirstquarterof2013.Dividendspaidoveraten-yearperiodhave

increasedatanaverageannualcompoundrateof7.3%.
Five-Year Average AnnualTotal Shareholder Return(%)All returns represent total returns.BMO
common
 shares
S&P/TSXFinancialServices
 Index
S&P/TSXComposite
 Index
S&P 500
 Index
BMO’s five-year TSR 
outperformed the comparable
Canadian indices.16.79.113.515.5All returns represent total returns.BMOcommon
 shares
S&P/TSXFinancialServices
 Index
S&P/TSXComposite
 Index
S&P 500
 Index
BMO’s three-year aver
age annualreturn was strong and 

outperformed the overall market return in Canada.19.89.317.616.7Three-Year Average Annual 

Total Shareholder Return
(%)One-Year Total 

Shareholder Return
(%)All returns represent total returns.BMO
common
 shares
S&P/TSXFinancialServices
 Index
S&P/TSXComposite
 Index
S&P 500
 Index
BMO’s one-year TSR was strong
and above the comparable
Canadian indices.17.312.616.917.1The average annual total shareholder return (TSR) 
represents the average 
annual total return earned 
on an investment in BMO 
common shares made at the 
beginning of a fixed period. 
The return includes the 
change in share price and 
assumes that dividends 
received were reinvested in 
additional common shares.TotalShareholderReturn
FortheyearendedOctober31
20142013201220112010
3-yearCAGR(1)5-yearCAGR(1)Closingmarketpricepercommonshare
($)81.7372.6259.0258.8960.23
11.510.3
Dividendspaid
($pershare)
3.042.922.802.802.80
2.81.7
Dividendyield
(%)3.84.04.84.84.6
nmnmIncrease(decrease)inshareprice
(%)12.523.00.2(2.2)20.3
nmnmTotalannualshareholderreturn
(%)(2)
17.128.85.22.426.4
16.715.5
(1)Compoundannualgrowthrate(CAGR)expressedasapercentage.

(2)Totalannualshareholderreturnassumesreinvestmentofquarterlydividendsandthereforedoesnotequalthesumofdividendandsharepricereturnsinthetable.

nm–notmeaningful
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
31MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
Non-GAAPMeasures
ResultsandmeasuresinthisMD&AarepresentedonaGAAPbasis.They
arealsopresentedonanadjustedbasisthatexcludestheimpactof

certainitemsassetoutinthefollowingtable.Managementassesses

performanceonareportedbasisandonanadjustedbasisandconsiders

bothtobeusefulinassessingunderlyingongoingbusinessperformance.

Presentingresultsonbothbasesprovidesreaderswithabetterunder-

standingofhowmanagementassessesresults.Italsopermitsreaders

toassesstheimpactofcertainspecifieditemsonresultsfortheperiods
presentedandtobetterassessresultsexcludingthoseitemsifthey

considertheitemstonotbereflectiveofongoingresults.Assuch,the

presentationmayfacilitatereaders’analysisoftrends,aswellas

comparisonswithourcompetitors.Adjustedresultsandmeasuresare

non-GAAPandassuchdonothavestandardizedmeaningunderGAAP.

Theyareunlikelytobecomparabletosimilarmeasurespresentedby

othercompaniesandshouldnotbeviewedinisolationfromorasa

substituteforGAAPresults.
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
ReportedResults
Revenue16,71816,06315,929
Provisionforcreditlosses
(561)
(587)(764)
Non-interestexpense
(10,921)(10,226)(10,135)
Incomebeforeincometaxes
5,2365,2505,030
Provisionforincometaxes
(903)(1,055)(874)
Netincome
4,3334,1954,156
EPS($)6.416.176.10
AdjustingItems(Pre-tax)
(1)Credit-relateditemsonthepurchasedperformingloanportfolio
(seebelow*)
–406407
Acquisitionintegrationcosts
(2)(20)(251)(402)
Amortizationofacquisition-relatedintangibleassets
(3)(140)(125)(134)
Decreaseinthecollectiveallowanceforcreditlosses
(4)–282
Run-offstructuredcreditactivities
(5)–40264
Restructuringcosts
(6)–(82)(173)
Adjustingitemsincludedinreportedpre-taxincome
(160)(10)44
AdjustingItems(Aftertax)
(1)Credit-relateditemsonthepurchasedperformingloanportfolio
(seebelow*)
–250251
Acquisitionintegrationcosts
(2)(16)(155)(250)
Amortizationofacquisition-relatedintangibleassets
(3)(104)(89)(96)
Decrease(increase)inthecollectiveallowanceforcreditlosses
(4)–(9)53
Run-offstructuredcreditactivities
(5)–34261
Restructuringcosts
(6)–(59)(122)
Adjustingitemsincludedinreportednetincomeaftertax
(120)(28)97
ImpactonEPS
($)(0.18)(0.04)0.15
AdjustedResults

Revenue16,71815,37214,866
Provisionforcreditlosses
(561)(357)(470)
Non-interestexpense
(10,761)(9,755)(9,410)
Incomebeforeincometaxes
5,3965,2604,986
Provisionforincometaxes
(943)(1,037)(927)
Netincome
4,4534,2234,059
EPS($)6.596.215.95
*Credit-relateditemsonthepurchasedperformingloanportfolioarecomprisedofthefollowingamounts:
(7)Revenue(8)–638783
Provisionforcreditlosses
(232)(376)
Increaseinpre-taxincome
–406407
Provisionforincometaxes
–(156)(156)
Increaseinreportednetincomeaftertax
–250251
Adjustedresultsandmeasuresinthistablearenon-GAAPamountsornon-GAAPmeasures.
(1)Adjustingitemsin2013andprioryearsareincludedinCorporateServiceswiththe
exceptionoftheamortizationofacquisition-relatedintangibleassets,whichischargedto
theoperatinggroups.Acquisitionintegrationcostsin2014relatedtoF&Carechargedto

WealthManagement.
(2)Acquisitionintegrationcostsareincludedinnon-interestexpense.

(3)Theseexpenseswerechargedtothenon-interestexpenseoftheoperatinggroups.Before
andafter-taxamountsforeachoperatinggroupareprovidedonpages44,46,49,52and

55.
(4)In2014,changestothecollectiveallowanceincludetheimpactofchangesinthepurchased
performingportfolio.In2013and2012,theimpactofthepurchasedperformingportfolioon

thecollectiveallowanceisreflectedincredit-relateditems.
(5)Primarilycomprisedofvaluationchangesassociatedwiththeseactivitiesthataremainly
includedintradingrevenuesinnon-interestrevenue.
(6)Restructuringchargetoalignourcoststructurewiththecurrentandfuturebusiness
environmentaspartofabroaderefforttoimproveproductivity.
(7)Effectivethefirstquarterof2014,CorporateServicesadjustedresultsincludecredit-related
itemsinrespectofthepurchasedperformingloanportfolio,including$238millionof

revenueand$82millionofspecificprovisionsforcreditlossesin2014.
(8)Recognitioninnetinterestincomeofaportionofthecreditmarkonthepurchased
performingloanportfolio.
32BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ASummaryFinancialResultsandEarningsperShareGrowth
Theyear-over-yearpercentagechangeinearningspershare(EPS)and
inadjustedEPSareourkeymeasuresforanalyzingearningsgrowth.All

referencestoEPSaretodilutedEPS,unlessindicatedotherwise.
EPSwas$6.41,up$0.24or4%from$6.17in2013.AdjustedEPS
was$6.59,up$0.38or6%from$6.21in2013.Ourthree-yearaverage

annualadjustedEPSgrowthratewas9%,inlinewithourcurrent

medium-termobjectiveofachievingaverageannualadjustedEPS

growthof7%to10%.EPSgrowthinboth2014and2013reflected

increasedearnings.Adjustednetincomeavailabletocommonshare-

holderswas40%higheroverthethree-yearperiodfromtheendof

2011,whiletheaveragenumberofdilutedcommonsharesoutstanding

increased7%overthesameperiod.
Netincomewas$4,333millionin2014,up$138millionor3%
fromthepreviousyear.Adjustednetincomewas$4,453million,up

$230millionor5%.
Onanadjustedbasis,therewasgoodrevenuegrowthin2014.
Higherrevenuesexceededincrementalcosts,contributingtogrowthin

netincome.Therewerehigherprovisionsforcreditlossesandalower

effectiveincometaxratein2014.
TherewasstrongadjustednetincomegrowthinCanadianP&Cand
3%growthinBMOCapitalMarketsandU.S.P&ConaU.S.dollarbasis,

withamodestdeclineinWealthManagementandlowerresultsin

CorporateServices.
CanadianP&Creportednetincomeincreased$202millionor11%
to$2,014million,duetocontinuedgoodrevenuegrowthdrivenby

strongloananddepositgrowth,partiallyoffsetbyhigherexpenses.

Expensesroseprimarilyduetocontinuedinvestmentinthebusiness,

netofexpensemanagement.CanadianP&Cresultsarediscussedinthe

operatinggroupreviewonpage45.
U.S.P&Cadjustednetincomeincreased$17millionor3%to$636
milliononaU.S.dollarbasis.Lowerprovisionsforcreditlosseswere

partiallyoffsetbylowerrevenue.Thebenefitsofstrongcommercial

loangrowthweremorethanoffsetbytheeffectsoflowernetinterest

marginandreducedmortgagebankingrevenue.U.S.P&Cresultsare

discussedintheoperatinggroupreviewonpage48.
WealthManagementadjustednetincomewas$848million,down
$9millionor1%fromayearago,astheprioryearincludeda$121

millionafter-taxsecuritygain.Adjustednetincomeintraditionalwealth

of$562milliondecreased$34million.Stronggrowthof$87million,

includingthecontributionfromtheacquiredF&Cbusiness,wasmore

thanoffsetbythesecuritygainintheprioryear.Adjustednetincomein

insurancewas$286million,up$25millionor9%.WealthManagement

resultsarediscussedintheoperatinggroupreviewonpage51.
BMOCapitalMarketsreportednetincomeincreased$35millionor
3%to$1,079million.Theincreasereflectedgrowthinrevenueacross

bothInvestmentandCorporateBankingandTradingProducts,withgood

contributionfromourU.S.businesses.Thisgrowthwaspartiallyoffset

byanincreaseinexpenses.BMOCapitalMarketsresultsarediscussedin

theoperatinggroupreviewonpage54.
CorporateServicesadjustednetlossfortheyearwas$193million,
comparedwithanadjustednetlossof$133millionayearago.Adjusted

resultsdecreasedduetoloweradjustedrecoveries,primarilyonthe

purchasedcreditimpairedloanportfolio,partiallyoffsetbybetter

adjustedrevenueswhichincludedthepurchasedperformingloan

portfolioresults.CorporateServicesresultsarediscussedinthe

operatinggroupreviewonpage57.
Changestoreportedandadjustednetincomeforeachofour
operatinggroupsarediscussedinmoredetailinthe2014Operating

GroupsPerformanceReview,whichstartsonpage42.
EPS($)2012
2014
2013
Adjusted EPSEPS6.105.956.176.216.416.59Earnings per share (EPS)
is calculated by dividing net 
income attributable to bank  
shareholders, after deduction of 
preferred dividends, by the
average number of common 
shares outstanding. Diluted EPS, 
which is our basis for measur-
ing performance, adjusts for 
possible conversions of 
financial instruments into 
common shares if those 
conversions would reduce EPS, 
and is more fully explained in 
Note 26 on page 173 of the 
financial statements. Adjusted 
EPS is calculated in the same 
manner using adjusted net 
income.Growth reflects strong momentum in Canadian P&C 
and an improving environment 
for our U.S. businesses, partially 
offset by lower recoveries.Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
33MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
ReturnonEquity
In2014weheldhigherlevelsofaveragecommonshareholders’equity
asaresultofincreasedcapitalexpectationsforbanksinternationally.As

aresult,returnonequity(ROE)was14.0%in2014andadjustedROE

was14.4%,comparedwith14.9%and15.0%,respectively,in2013.

Therewasanincreaseof$147millioninearnings($239millionin

adjustedearnings)availabletocommonshareholdersin2014.Average

commonshareholders’equityincreasedby$2.7billionfrom2013.
ROE(%)Return on common

shareholders’ equity (ROE)

is calculated as net income,

less non-controlling interest in 

subsidiaries and preferred 

dividends, as a percentage of 

average 
common shareholders’ 
equity. Common shareholders’ 

equity is comprised of common
share capital, contributed

surplus, accumulated other

comprehensive income

(loss) and retained earnings.

Adjusted ROE is calculated
using adjusted net income
rather than net income.Adjusted ROEROE2012
2014
2013
14.014.414.915.015.915.5ROE continues to be strong. 
BMO has achieved an ROE of 
13% or better in 24 of the past 
25 years.ReturnonEquityandAdjustedReturnonEquity
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
FortheyearendedOctober31
2014201320122011*2010*
Reportednetincome
4,3334,1954,1563,1142,810
Attributabletonon-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
(1)(56)(65)(74)(73)
naPreferreddividends
(120)(120)(136)(146)(136)
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
4,1574,0103,9462,8952,674
Averagecommonshareholders’equity
29,68026,95624,86319,14517,980
Returnonequity
(%)14.014.915.915.114.9
Adjustednetincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
4,2774,0383,8493,0562,780
Adjustedreturnonequity
(%)14.415.015.516.015.0
*2010isbasedonCGAAP.2011hasnotbeenrestatedtoreflectthenewIFRSstandardsadoptedin2014.
(1)Priorto2011,non-controllinginterestinsubsidiarieswasdeductedinthedeterminationofnetincome.

na–notapplicable
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BaselIIICommonEquityTier1Ratio
BMO’sBaselIIICommonEquityTier1(CET1)Ratioisthelastofourfour

keyvaluemeasures.BMO’sCET1RatioisstrongandexceedstheOffice

oftheSuperintendentofFinancialInstitutionsCanada’srequirementsfor

largeCanadianbanks.OurCET1Ratiowas10.1%atOctober31,2014,

comparedto9.9%atOctober31,2013.TheCET1Ratioincreasedby20

basispointsfromtheendoffiscal2013primarilyduetohighercapital,

partiallyoffsetbytheimpactoftheF&Cacquisitionandamoderate

increaseinrisk-weightedassets.
BMO’s CET1 Ratio remains strong.*2012 CET1 Ratio is on a pro-forma basis.Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 
(CET1) Ratio is calculated as 
CET1 capital, which is comprised 
of common shareholders’ equity 
less deductions for goodwill, 
intangible assets, pension 
assets, certain deferred tax 
assets and other items, divided 
by risk-weighted assets for CET1.Basel III CET1 Ratio (%)2012*2014
2013
10.19.98.734BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&A2014FinancialPerformanceReview
Thissectionprovidesareviewofourenterprisefinancialperformancefor2014thatfocusesontheConsolidatedStatementofIncomeincludedinour
consolidatedfinancialstatements,whichbeginonpage123.Areviewofouroperatinggroups’strategiesandperformancefollowstheenterprise

review.Asummaryoftheenterprisefinancialperformancefor2013appearsonpage61.Thissectioncontainsadjustedresults,whicharenon-GAAP

andaredisclosedinmoredetailintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
Highlights‰Revenueincreased$655millionor4%in2014to$16,718million.

Adjustedrevenueincreased$1,346millionor9%to$16,718million.

TheincreasewasmainlyduetorevenuegrowthinCanadianP&C,

WealthManagementandBMOCapitalMarkets,andcontinuesto

demonstratethebenefitsofourdiversifiedbusinessmixand

successfulexecutionagainstourstrategicpriorities.Theimpactof

thestrongerU.S.dollarincreasedrevenuegrowthby$310million.
‰RevenuegrowthinCanadianP&Creflectedstrongloananddeposit

growth.WealthManagementrevenueincreased$385millionor

11%to$3,833million.Revenuegrowthwasdrivenbyincreases

acrossallthebusinessesandacontributionfromtheacquiredF&C

business,partlyoffsetbyasecuritygainintheprioryear.BMO

CapitalMarketsrevenuegrowthwasdrivenbyhighernetsecurities

gainsandincreasesintradingrevenues,lendingrevenuesand

investmentbankingfees,particularlyinourU.S.platform.U.S.P&C

revenuedecreasedmodestlyonaU.S.dollarbasis,asthebenefitsof

strongcommercialloangrowthweremorethanoffsetbytheeffects

oflowernetinterestmarginandreducedmortgagebankingrev-

enue.CorporateServicesadjustedrevenuesimprovedfromtheprior

year.‰Provisionsforcreditlossestotalled$561millioninthecurrentyear,

downfrom$587millionin2013.Adjustedprovisionsforcredit

lossestotalled$561million,upfrom$357millionin2013,primarily

duetolowerrecoveriesonthepurchasedcreditimpairedloan

portfolio.‰Adjustednon-interestexpenseincreased$1,006millionor10%to

$10,761millionprimarilyduetocontinuedinvestmentinthe

business,higheremployee-relatedcosts,includingseverance,

increasedregulatorycosts,theimpactofthestrongerU.S.dollar

andtheacquiredF&Cbusiness.
‰Theeffectiveincometaxratein2014was17.2%,comparedwith

20.1%in2013.Theadjustedeffectiveincometaxrate
(1)
was17.5%,comparedwith19.7%in2013.Theloweradjustedeffective

ratein2014wasmainlyattributabletohighertax-exemptincome
andalowerproportionofincomefromhighertax-ratejurisdictions.
(1)Theadjustedrateiscomputedusingadjustednetincomeratherthannetincomeinthe
determinationofincomesubjecttotax.
ImpactofBusinessAcquisitions
BMOFinancialGrouphasselectivelyacquiredanumberofbusinesses,as

outlinedinNote12onpage153ofthefinancialstatements.These

acquisitionsincreaserevenuesandexpenses,affectingyear-over-year

comparisonsofoperatingresults.Theadjacenttableoutlinestheimpact

oftheseacquisitionsonBMO’sadjustedrevenue,non-interestexpense

andnetincomefor2014and2013toassistinanalyzingchangesin

results.Theeffectonadjustednetincomeincludestheimpactofprovi-

sionsforcreditlossesandincometaxes,whicharenotdisclosedsepa-

ratelyinthetable.
For2014,onanadjustedbasis,thebusinessacquisitionscon-
tributed$221millionofrevenues,$178millionofnon-interestexpense

and$34millionofnetincome.
ImpactofBusinessAcquisitionsonAdjustedOperating
Results(1)(Canadian$inmillions)
FortheyearendedOctober31
20142013Totalrevenue
22120Non-interestexpense
(2)17832Netincome(loss)
34(9)(1)Resultsforboth2014and2013includetheresultsoftheacquiredAsia-basedwealth
managementbusiness,whichispartofourWealthManagementreportingsegment,andthe
resultsofAverMediaLP,whichispartofourCanadianP&Creportingsegment.Resultsfor

2014alsoincludetheresultsofF&CAssetManagementplc,whichispartofourWealth

Managementreportingsegment.
(2)Adjustednon-interestexpensein2013includesacquisitionandintegrationcostsinrespect
oftheacquiredAsia-basedwealthmanagementbusinessandAverMediaLP.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
35MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
ForeignExchange
TheU.S.dollarwasstrongercomparedtotheCanadiandollarat
October31,2014thanatOctober31,2013.BMO’sU.S.-dollar-

denominatedassetsandliabilitiesaretranslatedatyear-endrates.The

averageexchangerateoverthecourseof2014,whichisusedinthe

translationofBMO’sU.S.-dollar-denominatedrevenuesandexpenses,

washigherin2014thanin2013.Consequently,theCanadiandollar

equivalentsofBMO’sU.S.-dollar-denominatednetincome,revenues,

expenses,provisionsfor(recoveriesof)creditlossesandincometaxes

in2014increasedrelativetotheprecedingyear.Thetablebelow

indicatesaverageCanadian/U.S.dollarexchangeratesin2014,2013

and2012andtheimpactofchangesintheaverageratesonour

U.S.segmentresults.AtOctober31,2014,theCanadiandollartraded

at$1.127perU.S.dollar.Ittradedat$1.043perU.S.dollarat

October31,2013.
Changesintheexchangeratewillaffectfutureresultsmeasuredin
Canadiandollarsandtheimpactonthoseresultsisafunctionofthe

periodsinwhichrevenues,expensesandprovisionsfor(recoveriesof)

creditlossesarise.Iffutureresultsareconsistentwithresultsin2014,

eachonecentincrease(decrease)intheCanadian/U.S.dollarexchange

rate,expressedintermsofhowmanyCanadiandollarsoneU.S.dollar

buys,wouldbeexpectedtoincrease(decrease)theCanadiandollar

equivalentofU.S.-dollar-denominatedadjustednetincomebefore

incometaxesfortheyearby$10millionintheabsenceofhedging

transactions.BMOmayexecutehedgingtransactionstomitigatetheimpactof
foreignexchangeratemovementsonnetincome.
EffectsofChangesinExchangeRatesonBMO’sReported
andAdjustedResults
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
2014vs.
20132013vs.
2012Canadian/U.S.dollarexchangerate(average)
20141.09420131.0241.02420121.003
Effectsonreportedresults
Increasednetinterestincome
18257Increasednon-interestrevenue
14339Increasedrevenues
32596Increasedrecoveryof(provisionfor)creditlosses
(1)4Increasedexpenses
(252)(75)Increasedincometaxes
(15)(8)Increasedreportednetincome
5717Effectsonadjustedresults
Increasednetinterestincome
16748Increasednon-interestrevenue
14339Increasedrevenues
31087Increasedrecoveryofcreditlosses
34Increasedexpenses
(246)(69)Increasedincometaxes
(12)(6)Increasedadjustednetincome
5516CautionThisForeignExchangesectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.PleaseseetheCaution

RegardingForward-LookingStatements.
RevenueRevenueincreased$655millionor4%in2014to$16,718million.
AmountsintherestofthisRevenuesectionarestatedonan
adjustedbasis.
Adjustedrevenueincreased$1,346millionor9%to$16,718million
mainlyduetogrowthinCanadianP&C,WealthManagementandBMO

CapitalMarkets.ThestrongerU.S.dollaradded$310millionor2%to

adjustedrevenuegrowth.BMOanalyzesrevenueattheconsolidated

levelbasedonGAAPrevenuesasreportedinthefinancialstatements,

andonanadjustedbasis.ConsistentwithourCanadianpeergroup,we

analyzerevenueonataxableequivalentbasis(teb)attheoperating

grouplevel.Thetebadjustmentsfor2014totalled$476million,upfrom

$344millionin2013.
CanadianP&Crevenueincreased$389millionor6%duetostrong
loananddepositgrowth.
WealthManagementrevenueincreased$385millionor11%to
$3,833million.Revenuegrowthwasdrivenbyincreasesacrossallthe

businessesandacontributionfromtheacquiredF&Cbusiness,partly

offsetbyasecuritygainintheprioryear.
BMOCapitalMarketsrevenueincreased$332millionor10%to
$3,724million,drivenbyhighernetsecuritiesgainsandincreasesin

tradingrevenues,lendingrevenuesandinvestmentbankingfees,

particularlyinourU.S.platform.ThestrongerU.S.dollarincreased

revenueby$85million.
U.S.P&Crevenuedecreased$45millionor2%to$2,796millionon
aU.S.dollarbasisasthebenefitsofstrongcommercialloangrowth

weremorethanoffsetbytheeffectsoflowernetinterestmarginand

reducedmortgagebankingrevenue.
CorporateServicesadjustedrevenuesimprovedby$89millionor
18%,mainlyduetotheinclusionofpurchasedperformingloanrevenue,

partiallyoffsetbyahighergroupteboffset.
Adjustedrevenueexcludedtheportionofthecreditmarkrecorded
innetinterestincomeonthepurchasedperformingloanportfolioand

incomeorlossesfromrun-offstructuredcreditactivitiesfor2013and

2012,whicharerecordedinCorporateServices,asdiscussedintheNon-

GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
RevenueandAdjustedRevenue
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
FortheyearendedOctober31
2014201320122011*2010
Netinterestincome
8,4618,6778,9377,4746,235
Year-over-yeargrowth
(%)(3)(3)202012
Non-interestrevenue
8,2577,3866,9926,4696,004
Year-over-yeargrowth
(%)126889Totalrevenue
16,71816,06315,92913,94312,239
Year-over-yeargrowth
(%)41141411
Adjustednetinterestincome
8,4618,0208,1587,2486,235
Year-over-yeargrowth
(%)5(2)131612
Adjustednon-interestrevenue
8,2577,3526,7086,4946,004
Year-over-yeargrowth
(%)121038–
Totaladjustedrevenue
16,71815,37214,86613,74212,239
Year-over-yeargrowth
(%)938126
*Growthratesfor2011reflectgrowthbasedonCGAAPin2010andIFRSin2011.2011hasnot
beenrestatedtoreflectthenewIFRSstandardsadoptedin2014.
Taxableequivalentbasis(teb)
Revenuesofoperatinggroupsare
presentedinourMD&Aonataxableequivalentbasis(teb).Theteb

adjustmentincreasesGAAPrevenuesandtheprovisionforincome

taxesbyanamountthatwouldincreaserevenuesoncertaintax-

exemptitemstoalevelthatwouldincurtaxatthestatutoryrate,to

facilitatecomparisons.ThisadjustmentisoffsetinCorporateServices.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
36BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ANetInterestIncome
Netinterestincomefortheyearwas$8,461million,adecreaseof

$216millionor3%from2013.Adjustednetinterestincomeof

$8,461millionincreased$441millionor5%,duetovolumegrowth,

revenuefromthepurchasedperformingloanportfolioandtheimpactof

thestrongerU.S.dollar,partiallyoffsetbylowernetinterestmargin.The

impactofthestrongerU.S.dollarincreasedadjustednetinterestincome

by$167million.
Adjustednetinterestincomeexcludedamountsrelatedtothe
creditmarkonthepurchasedperformingloanportfolioin2013

and2012.
BMO’saverageearningassetsincreased$43.6billionor9%in
2014,includinga$13.5billionincreaseasaresultofthestrongerU.S.

dollar.Therewasstronggrowthinalloftheoperatinggroups.
ThemaindriversofBMO’soverallnetinterestmarginarethe
individualgroupmargins,changesinthemagnitudeofeachoperating

group’saverageearningassetsandchangesinnetinterestincomein

CorporateServices.Changesarediscussedinthe2014OperatingGroups

PerformanceReviewsectiononpage42.
Table5onpage110andTable6onpage111providefurther
detailsonnetinterestincomeandnetinterestmargin.
Netinterestincome
iscomprisedofearningsonassets,suchas
loansandsecurities,includinginterestanddividendincomeand
BMO’sshareofincomefrominvestmentsaccountedforusingthe

equitymethodofaccounting,lessinterestexpensepaidonliabilities,

suchasdeposits.
Netinterestmargin
istheratioofnetinterestincometoaverage
earningassets,expressedasapercentageorinbasispoints.
Average earning assetsincreased 9% and adjusted net
interest margin decreased in the
low-rate environment.201220132014
Average Earning Assets and 
Net Interest MarginAverage earning assets ($ billions)Net interest margin (%)Adjusted net interest margin (%)Net Interest Income

and Non-Interest Revenue* 
($ billions)
Non-interest revenueNet interest incomeAdjusted non-interest revenue
Adjusted net interest income
There was growth in adjusted
non-interest revenue and net
interest income, reflecting good
underlying business growth.201220142013*Numbers may not add due to rounding.5291.601.604851.651.794611.771.9416.78.38.516.78.38.515.47.48.016.17.48.714.96.78.215.97.08.9Revenue
Revenueby Country
(%)CanadaUnitedStates
Othercountries
Canadian P&C, WealthManagement and BMO Capital
Markets drove revenue growth.The change in revenue in othercountries is primarily due to the
F&C acquisition. Total revenueTotal adjusted revenue20132014
2012201420122013
656334335333064($ billions)15.914.916.115.416.716.7
ChangeinNetInterestIncome,AverageEarningAssetsandNetInterestMargin
Netinterestincome(teb)
Averageearningassets
Netinterestmargin
(Canadian$inmillions)
Change(Canadian$inmillions)
Change(inbasispoints)
FortheyearendedOctober31
20142013%2014
2013%2014
2013ChangeCanadianP&C
4,7724,5265183,947
171,2857259
264(5)U.S.P&C
2,4882,327766,565
58,36914374
399(25)PersonalandCommercialBanking(P&C)
7,2606,8536250,512
229,6549290
298(8)WealthManagement
560558121,169
19,3999265
287(22)BMOCapitalMarkets
1,1791,202(2)223,677
202,9601053
59(6)CorporateServices,includingTechnologyandOperations
(538)
(593)(9)33,428
33,1781nmnmnmTotalBMOadjusted
8,4618,0205528,786
485,1919160
165(5)Adjustingitemsimpactingnetinterestincome
–657nmnanananm
nmnmTotalBMOreported
8,4618,677(3)528,786
485,1919160
179(19)
na–notapplicable
nm–notmeaningful
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
37MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
Non-InterestRevenue
(Canadian$inmillions)
Changefrom2013
FortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
(%)Securitiescommissionsandfees
934846825
10Depositandpaymentservicecharges
1,002916929
9Tradingrevenues
9498491,025
12Lendingfees
680603544
13Cardfees
462461441
–Investmentmanagementand
custodialfees
1,246971967
28Mutualfundrevenues
1,073832665
29Underwritingandadvisoryfees
744659600
13Securitiesgains,otherthantrading
162285152
(43)Foreignexchange,otherthantrading
179172153
4Insuranceincome
503445335
13Other323347356
(7)TotalBMOreported
8,2577,3866,992
12TotalBMOadjusted
8,2577,3526,708
12Non-InterestRevenue
Non-interestrevenue,whichcomprisesallrevenuesotherthannet

interestincome,was$8,257millionin2014,anincreaseof$871million

or12%from2013.Adjustednon-interestrevenueincreased

$905millionor12%,withthemajorityofthegrowthdrivenbystrong

performanceinWealthManagementandBMOCapitalMarkets,aswell

asgoodgrowthinCanadianP&C.
Investmentmanagementandcustodialfeesincreased$275million
or28%andmutualfundrevenuesincreased$241millionor29%,both

duetogrowthinclientassetsandacontributionfromtheacquired

F&Cbusiness.
Tradingrevenuesincreased$100millionor12%andarediscussed
intheTrading-RelatedRevenuessectionthatfollows.
Securitiescommissionsandfeesincreased$88millionor10%.
TheserevenuesconsistlargelyofbrokeragecommissionswithinWealth

Management,whichaccountforaboutthree-quartersofthetotal,and

institutionalequitytradingcommissionswithinBMOCapitalMarkets.In

WealthManagement,securitiescommissionswereup9%duetogrowth

inclientassets,withBMOCapitalMarketsincreasing13%duetohigher

clientactivity.
Depositandpaymentservicechargesincreased$86millionor9%,
primarilyduetogrowthinCanadianP&C.
Underwritingandadvisoryfeesincreased$85millionor13%
reflectinghigheractivitylevelsparticularlyinequityunderwriting.
Lendingfeesincreased$77millionor13%,primarilyduetostrong
growthinlendingactivityinBMOCapitalMarketsandintheCanadian

P&Cloanportfolio.
Insuranceincomeincreased$58millionor13%,primarilydueto
thebeneficialimpactofchangesintheapproachtocalculatingthe

ultimatereinvestmentratelesstheimpactofannualactuarialassump-

tionchanges.
Foreignexchange,otherthantradingincreasedby$7millionor4%.

Securitiesgainsdecreasedby$123millionor43%duetoasecurity
gaininWealthManagementof$191millionintheprioryear,partially

offsetbyhighernetsecuritiesgainsinBMOCapitalMarkets.
Cardfeeswererelativelyunchangedfromtheprioryear.

Othernon-interestrevenueincludesvarioussundryamountsand
decreasedby$24millionor7%fromtheprioryear.
Adjustednon-interestrevenueexcludedtheincomeorlossesfrom
run-offstructuredcreditactivitiesin2013and2012,whichweremainly

includedintradingrevenues.
Table3onpage108providesfurtherdetailsonrevenueandrev-
enuegrowth.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
38BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ATrading-RelatedRevenues
Trading-relatedrevenuesaredependenton,amongotherthings,the
volumeofactivitiesundertakenforclientswhoenterintotransactions

withBMOtomitigatetheirrisksortoinvest.BMOearnsaspreador

profitonthenetsumofitsclientpositionsbyprofitablymanaging,

withinprescribedlimits,theoverallriskofthenetpositions.Onalim-

itedbasis,BMOalsoearnsrevenuefromprincipaltradingpositions.
Interestandnon-interesttrading-relatedrevenuesdecreased
$93millionor9%from2013.Adjustedtrading-relatedrevenueswere

$933millionin2014,down$39millionor4%.Interestratetrading-

relatedrevenuesdecreased$154millionor32%,primarilydueto

decreasedclientactivityinourfixedincomebusinessesandthe

unfavourableimpactfromafundingvaluationadjustmentimplemented

in2014.Foreignexchangetrading-relatedrevenueswereup$71million

or25%from2013,primarilydrivenbyincreasedclientactivitylevels.

Equitiestrading-relatedrevenuesincreased$127millionor25%,

primarilyduetoincreasedactivitywithcorporateandinvestorclients

andaconducivemarketenvironment.Commoditiestrading-related

revenuesincreased$3million.
Nominalrevenuesfromrun-offstructuredcreditactivitiesin2014,
comparedto$34millionin2013,areincludedinothertradingrevenues

intheadjacenttable.Priorto2014,theserevenueswereadjusting

itemsandexcludedfromadjustedtrading-relatedrevenues.
TheMarketRisksectiononpage91providesmoreinformationon
trading-relatedrevenues.
Trading-relatedrevenues
includenetinterestincomeandnon-
interestrevenueearnedfromonandoff-balancesheetpositions
undertakenfortradingpurposes.Themanagementoftheseposi-

tionstypicallyincludesmarkingthemtomarketonadailybasis.

Trading-relatedrevenuesalsoincludeincome(expense)andgains

(losses)frombothon-balancesheetinstrumentsandinterestrate,

foreignexchange(includingspotpositions),equity,commodityand

creditcontracts.
InterestandNon-InterestTrading-RelatedRevenues
(1)(Canadian$inmillions)
(taxableequivalentbasis)
Changefrom2013
FortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
(%)Interestrates
325479449
(32)Foreignexchange
356285269
25Equities626499413
25Commodities464366
7Other(2)1329267
(55)Total(teb)
1,3661,3351,464
2Teboffset
433309234
40Total9331,0261,230
(9)Reportedas:
Netinterestincome
417486439
(14)Non-interestrevenue–tradingrevenues
9498491,025
12Total(teb)
1,3661,3351,464
2Teboffset
433309234
40Total9331,0261,230
(9)Adjustednetinterestincomenetofteb
offset(16)157209
(+100)Adjustednon-interestrevenue–trading
revenues949815741
16Adjustedtotal
933972950
(4)(1)Trading-relatedrevenuesarepresentedonataxableequivalentbasis.
(2)Includesnominalrevenuesfromrun-offstructuredcreditactivitiesin2014($34millionin
2013;$284millionin2012)andhedgingexposuresinBMO’sstructuralbalancesheet.Prior

to2014,thestructuredcreditrevenueswereadjustingitemsandexcludedfromadjusted

trading-relatedrevenues.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
39MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
ProvisionforCreditLosses
Theprovisionforcreditlosses(PCL)was$561millioninthecurrent
year,downfrom$587millionin2013andupfrom$357millionin2013

onanadjustedbasis.Therewerenoadjustingitemsinthecurrentyear.

Theprioryearincludeda$240millionspecificprovisiononthepur-

chasedperformingloanportfolioanda$10milliondecreaseinthe

collectiveallowance.TheincreaseinadjustedPCLwasduetoasig-

nificantreductioninrecoveriesonthepurchasedcreditimpaired

portfolioandprovisionsonthepurchasedperformingloanportfolio,

offsetinpartbyreducedprovisionsinCanadianP&CandU.S.P&C.
PCLasapercentageofaveragenetloansandacceptancesdeclined
to0.19%in2014from0.22%in2013.Thispositiveratiotrendreflects

lowernewprovisionsacrossbothourconsumerandcommercialloan

portfolios,comparedto2013.
Onanoperatinggroupbasis,mostofourprovisionsrelateto
PersonalandCommercialBanking.InCanadianP&C,PCLdecreasedby

$31millionto$541millionin2014,reflectinglowerprovisionsinboth

thecommercialandconsumerportfolios.U.S.P&CPCLwas$164million,

down$59millionfrom2013,primarilyreflectingbettercreditqualityin

theconsumerloanportfolio.WealthManagementhada$3million

recoveryin2014,comparedtoaprovisionof$3millionintheprevious

year.BMOCapitalMarketsrecordedanetrecoveryof$18million,down

fromanetrecoveryof$36millionintheprioryear.CorporateServices

adjustedrecoveriesofcreditlossesof$123millionin2014weredown

from$405millionin2013,primarilyreflecting$158millionlower

recoveriesonthepurchasedcreditimpairedloanportfolio,provisionsof

$82milliononthepurchasedperformingloanportfolioand$64million

higherprovisionsontheimpairedrealestatesecuredloanportfolio.
Onageographicbasis,themajorityofourprovisionsrelatetoour
Canadianloanportfolio.SpecificPCLinCanadaandothercountries

(excludingtheUnitedStates)was$527million,comparedto

$566millionin2013.SpecificadjustedPCLintheUnitedStateswas

$34million,downfroma$209millionrecoveryin2013,reflecting

lowerrecoveriesofcreditlossesonthepurchasedcreditimpairedloans

andprovisionsonthepurchasedperformingloanportfolioin2014.Note

4onpage136ofthefinancialstatementsprovidesPCLinformationona

geographicbasis.Table15onpage118providesfurtherPCLsegmenta-

tioninformation.
ProvisionforCreditLosses
FortheyearendedOctober31

(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
Newspecificprovisions
1,4131,6361,859
Reversalsofpreviouslyestablishedallowances
(228)(267)(252)
Recoveriesofloanspreviouslywrittenoff
(624)(772)(846)
Specificprovisionforcreditlosses
561597761
Increase(decrease)incollectiveallowance
–(10)3
Provisionforcreditlosses(PCL)
561587764
PCLasa%ofaveragenetloansand
acceptances(annualized)
(1)0.190.220.31
(1)Certainratiosfor2012wererestatedinthefirstquarterof2013toreflectthereclassified
balancesheetpresentation.
ProvisionforCreditLossesbyOperatingGroup
(1)FortheyearendedOctober31

(Canadian$inmillions)
201420132012
CanadianP&C
541572613
U.S.P&C
164223274
PersonalandCommercialBanking
705795887
WealthManagement
(3)322
BMOCapitalMarkets
(18)(36)6
CorporateServices,includingT&O
(2)Impairedrealestateloans
21(43)20
Interestonimpairedloans
264844
Purchasedcreditimpairedloans
(252)(410)(509)
Purchasedperformingloans
(2)82––Adjustedprovisionforcreditlosses
561357470
Purchasedperformingloans
(2)–240291
Increase(decrease)incollectiveallowance
–(10)3
Provisionforcreditlosses
561587764
(1)Effectivethefirstquarterof2013,provisionsintheoperatinggroupsarereportedonan
actuallossbasisandinterestonimpairedloansisallocatedtotheoperatinggroups.

Resultsforpriorperiodshavebeenrestatedaccordingly.
(2)Effectivethefirstquarterof2014,CorporateServicesadjustedresultsincludecredit-
relateditemsinrespectofthepurchasedperformingloanportfolio.Furtherdetailsare

providedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
40BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ANon-InterestExpense
Non-interestexpenseincreased$695millionor7%to$10,921million
in2014.
AmountsintherestofthisNon-InterestExpensesectionarestated
onanadjustedbasis,unlessotherwisenoted.
Adjustednon-interestexpenseexcludesacquisitionintegration
costsforcertainsignificantacquisitionsandamortizationofacquisition-

relatedintangibleassetsin2014,2013and2012,andrestructuringcosts

in2013and2012toalignourcoststructurewiththeenvironment.
Adjustednon-interestexpenseincreased$1,006millionor10%to
$10,761million.ExcludingtheimpactofthestrongerU.S.dollar,

adjustednon-interestexpenseincreasedby8%.
Thedollarandpercentagechangesinexpensebycategoryare
outlinedintheadjacentAdjustedNon-InterestExpenseandNon-Interest

Expensetable.Table4onpage109providesmoredetailonexpenses

andexpensegrowth.
Performance-basedcompensationincreased13%,excludingthe
impactofthestrongerU.S.dollar,inpartduetoacquisitions,withthe

remaindermainlydrivenbyimprovedrevenueinWealthManagement

andBMOCapitalMarkets.Otheremployeecompensation,which

includessalaries,benefitsandseverance,increased4%,excludingthe

impactofthestrongerU.S.dollar,duetocontinuedinvestmentinthe

businessandhigherseverance.
Premisesandequipmentcostsincreased$165millionor9%,dueto
highercostsrelatedtotechnologyinvestments.
Otheradjustedexpensesincreased$316millionor14%,reflecting
increasesinlegalandregulatorycosts,professionalfeesandmarketing

costs.BMO’sreportedefficiencyratioincreasedby160basispointsto
65.3%in2014.Theadjustedefficiencyratioincreasedby90basispoints

to64.4%.TheadjustedefficiencyratioexcludingPBCAE
(1)was59.1%in
2014comparedto60.4%in2013.
CanadianP&CisBMO’slargestoperatingsegment,anditsreported
efficiencyratioof50.2%improvedby100basispointsmainlydueto

goodrevenuegrowthanddisciplinedcostmanagement.
TheadjustedefficiencyratioinWealthManagementincreasedby
480basispointsto71.8%,mainlyduetoasecuritygainintheprioryear

andthesettlementofalegalmatterin2014.
BMOCapitalMarketsreportedefficiencyratioincreasedby
180basispointsto63.2%astherateofgrowthinrevenueacrossboth

InvestmentandCorporateBankingandTradingProductswasmorethan

offsetbythepaceofgrowthonemployee-relatedcostsandincreased

supportcosts,bothdrivenbyachangingbusinessandregulatoryenvi-

ronment,aswellasbystrongerperformance.
TheadjustedefficiencyratioinU.S.P&Cincreasedby170basis
pointsto63.4%primarilyduetolowerrevenue.
Reportedoperatingleveragewasnegative2.7%in2014and
adjustedoperatingleveragewasnegative1.6%.Weaimtoimprove

efficiencyandgenerateoperatingleveragebydrivingrevenuegrowth

throughastrongcustomerfocusandbymaintainingdisciplinedcost

managementwhilemakingselectiveinvestments.
Examplesofinitiativestoenhanceproductivityareoutlinedinthe
2014OperatingGroupsPerformanceReview,whichstartsonpage42.
(1)Thisratioiscalculatedexcludinginsurancepolicyholderbenefits,claimsandacquisition
expenses(PBCAE).
Theefficiencyratio
(orexpense-to-revenueratio
)isakey
measureofproductivity.Itiscalculatedasnon-interestexpense

dividedbytotalrevenues(onataxableequivalentbasisinthe

operatinggroups),expressedasapercentage.The
adjusted
efficiencyratio
isanotherkeymeasureofproductivityandis
calculatedinthesamemanner,utilizingadjustedrevenueand

expense.ContributiontoGrowthinAdjustedNon-InterestExpense
andNon-InterestExpense
(%)FortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
Significantbusinessesacquired
1.50.410.2
Canadian/U.S.dollartranslationeffect,
excludingacquisitions
2.50.80.7
Other6.32.50.4
Totaladjustednon-interestexpensegrowth
10.33.711.3
Impactofadjustingitems
(3.5)(2.8)4.6
Totalnon-interestexpensegrowth
6.80.915.9
AdjustedNon-InterestExpenseandNon-InterestExpense
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
Changefrom2013
FortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
(%)Performance-basedcompensation
1,9391,6821,641
15Otheremployeecompensation
4,2944,0263,710
7Totalemployeecompensation
6,2335,7085,351
9Premisesandequipment
1,9081,7431,719
9Other2,3782,0832,143
14Amortizationofintangibleassets
242221197
10Totaladjustednon-interestexpense
10,7619,7559,410
10Adjustingitems
160471725
(66)Totalnon-interestexpense
10,92110,22610,135
7Adjustednon-interestexpense
growth(%)10.3
3.711.3
naNon-interestexpensegrowth
(%)6.80.915.9
nana–notapplicable
EfficiencyRatiobyGroup
(teb)(%)
FortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
EfficiencyRatio
CanadianP&C
50.251.250.8
U.S.P&C
65.664.364.0
WealthManagement
73.968.176.4
BMOCapitalMarkets
63.261.461.1
TotalBMO
65.363.763.6
AdjustedEfficiencyRatio

CanadianP&C
50.151.050.7
U.S.P&C
63.461.760.8
WealthManagement
71.867.075.4
BMOCapitalMarkets
63.161.461.1
TotalBMO
64.463.563.3
CautionThisNon-InterestExpensesectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.PleaseseetheCaution

RegardingForward-LookingStatements.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
41MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
ProvisionforIncomeTaxes
TheprovisionforincometaxesreflectedintheConsolidatedStatementof
Incomeisbasedupontransactionsrecordedinincome,regardlessof

whensuchtransactionsaresubjecttotaxationbytaxauthorities,with

theexceptionoftherepatriationofretainedearningsfromforeignsub-

sidiaries,asoutlinedinNote25onpage171ofthefinancialstatements.
ManagementassessesBMO’sconsolidatedresultsandassociated
provisionsforincometaxesonaGAAPbasis.Weassesstheperform-

anceoftheoperatinggroupsandassociatedincometaxesonataxable

equivalentbasisandreportaccordingly.
Theprovisionforincometaxeswas$903millionin2014,compared
with$1,055millionin2013.Thereportedeffectivetaxratein2014was

17.2%,comparedwith20.1%in2013.Theadjustedprovisionfor

incometaxes
(1)was$943millionin2014,comparedwith$1,037million
in2013.Theadjustedeffectivetaxratein2014was17.5%,compared

with19.7%in2013.Theloweradjustedeffectivetaxratewasmainly

attributabletohighertax-exemptincomeandalowerproportionof

incomefromhighertax-ratejurisdictions.
BMOpartiallyhedgestheforeignexchangeriskarisingfromitsfor-
eignoperationsbyfundingtheinvestmentsinacorrespondingforeign
currency.Underthisprogram,thegainorlossonhedgingandtheunreal-

izedgainorlossontranslationofforeignoperationsarechargedor

creditedtoshareholders’equity.Forincometaxpurposes,thegainor

lossonthehedgingactivitiesresultsinanincometaxchargeorcreditin

thecurrentperiod,whichischargedorcreditedtoshareholders’equity,

whiletheassociatedunrealizedgainorlossontheforeignoperations

doesnotincurincometaxesuntiltheinvestmentsareliquidated.The

incometaxcharge/benefitarisingfromahedginggain/lossisafunction

ofthefluctuationsinexchangeratesfromperiodtoperiod.Hedgingof

theforeignoperationshasgivenrisetoanincometaxrecoveryin

shareholders’equityof$144millionfortheyear,comparedwith$146

millionin2013.RefertotheConsolidatedStatementofChangesin

Equityonpage126ofthefinancialstatementsforfurtherdetails.
Table4onpage109detailsthe$1,505millionoftotalnetgovern-
mentleviesandincometaxexpenseincurredbyBMOin2014.The

decreasefrom$1,641millionin2013wasprimarilyduetolower

incometaxexpense.
(1)Theadjustedrateiscomputedusingadjustednetincomeratherthannetincomeinthe
determinationofincomesubjecttotax.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
2014OperatingGroupsPerformanceReview
Thissectionincludesananalysisofthefinancialresultsofouroperating

groupsanddescriptionsoftheirbusinesses,strategies,strengths,chal-

lenges,keyvaluedrivers,achievementsandoutlooks.
PersonalandCommercialBanking(P&C)
(pages44to50)
Netincomewas$2,662millionin2014,anincreaseof$269millionor
11%from2013.Adjustednetincomewas$2,718million,anincreaseof

$265millionor11%.PersonalandCommercialBankingiscomprisedof

twooperatingsegments:CanadianPersonalandCommercialBanking

(CanadianP&C)andU.S.PersonalandCommercialBanking(U.S.P&C).
WealthManagement
(pages51to53)
Netincomewas$785millionin2014,adecreaseof$45millionor5%
from2013.Adjustednetincomewas$848million,adecreaseof

$9millionor1%astheprioryearincludedasignificantsecuritygain.
BMOCapitalMarkets(BMOCM)
(pages54to56)
Netincomewas$1,079millionin2014,anincreaseof$35millionor
3%from2013.Adjustednetincomewas$1,080million,anincreaseof

$34millionor3%.
CorporateServices,includingTechnologyandOperations
(page57)
Netlosswas$193millionin2014,comparedwithanetlossof
$72millionin2013.Adjustednetlosswas$193million,comparedwith

anadjustednetlossof$133millionin2013.
AllocationofResults
Thebasisfortheallocationofresultsgeographicallyandamong

operatinggroupsisoutlinedinNote27onpage173ofthefinancial

statements.Certainprioryeardatahasbeenrestated,asexplainedon

thefollowingpage,whichalsoprovidesfurtherinformationonthe

allocationofresults.
*Percentages determined excluding results in Corporate Services.
Adjusted Net Incomeby Country
Adjusted Net Income
by OperatingSegment
*201320132014U.S. 21%
Canada74%Othercountries
5%U.S. 25%
Canada71%Othercountries
4%Results provide attractive diversification across businesses and geographies.U.S. P&C 14%WealthManagement
20%BMO CM 24%Canadian P&C42%2014U.S. P&C 15%WealthManagement
18%BMO CM 23%Canadian P&C44%42BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AContributionstoRevenue,Expenses,NetIncomeandAverageAssetsbyOperatingGroupandbyLocation
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
Personaland
CommercialBanking
WealthManagementBMOCapitalMarkets
CorporateServices,including
TechnologyandOperations
TotalConsolidatedFortheyearended
October31
201420132012
201420132012
201420132012
201420132012
201420132012
OperatingGroupsRelativeContributiontoBMO’sPerformance
(%)Revenue57.156.156.4
22.921.518.2
22.321.120.4
(2.3)1.35.0
100100100
Expenses48.248.848.9
26.023.021.9
21.520.419.6
4.37.89.6
100100100
Netincome
61.457.055.8
18.119.812.7
24.924.923.7
(4.4)(1.7)7.8
100100100
Adjustednet
income61.058.159.0
19.020.313.5
24.324.824.3
(4.3)(3.2)3.2
100100100
Averageassets
44.343.641.1
4.24.03.7
43.944.646.2
7.67.89.0
100100100
TotalRevenue
Canada6,4046,0205,900
2,5092,2341,977
2,2152,1462,028
(209)(116)66
10,91910,2849,971
UnitedStates
3,1462,9913,078
788910702
1,2991,0931,022
(203)322655
5,0305,3165,457
Othercountries
21–536304221
210153199
21581
769463501
9,5529,0128,978
3,8333,4482,900
3,7243,3923,249
(391)211802
16,71816,06315,929
TotalExpenses

Canada3,1943,0552,957
1,8181,6471,602
1,1741,0741,005
261339407
6,4476,1155,971
UnitedStates
2,0711,9402,001
721599557
984854831
160428538
3,9363,8213,927
Othercountries
–––29510156
195156150
483331
538290237
5,2654,9954,958
2,8342,3472,215
2,3532,0841,986
469800976
10,92110,22610,135
NetIncome

Canada2,0061,8101,768
503428272
799823803
(47)(172)1
3,2612,8892,844
UnitedStates
655582552
5820688
253220140
(119)118257
8471,1261,037
Othercountries
11–224196167
27142
(27)(18)66
225180275
2,6622,3932,320
785830527
1,0791,044985
(193)(72)324
4,3334,1954,156
AdjustedNetIncome

Canada2,0091,8151,771
521429274
799823803
(47)(87)(40)
3,2822,9802,808
UnitedStates
708637623
80228104
254222141
(119)(25)217
9231,0621,085
Othercountries
11–247200170
27142
(27)(21)(46)
248181166
2,7182,4532,394
848857548
1,0801,046986
(193)(133)131
4,4534,2234,059
AverageAssets

Canada190,053177,016161,301
18,36817,43815,974
142,231133,151139,333
19,40817,73515,994
370,060345,340332,602
UnitedStates
73,16564,86662,218
4,0553,5273,678
99,06296,10194,691
25,26025,34530,161
201,542189,839190,748
Othercountries
3918–
2,5571,178702
19,66918,35717,538
616992,341
22,32620,25220,581
263,257241,900223,519
24,98022,14320,354
260,962247,609251,562
44,72943,77948,496
593,928555,431543,931
HowBMOReportsOperatingGroupResults
Periodically,certainbusinesslinesandunitswithinthebusinesslines
aretransferredbetweenclientandcorporatesupportgroupstomore

closelyalignBMO’sorganizationalstructurewithitsstrategicpriorities.

Inaddition,revenueandexpenseallocationsareupdatedtomore

accuratelyalignwithcurrentexperience.Resultsforpriorperiodsare

restatedtoconformtothecurrentpresentation.
CorporateServicesresultsreflectcertainitemsinrespectofthe
purchasedloanportfolio,includingtherecognitionofaportionofthe

creditmarkthatisreflectedinnetinterestincomeoverthetermofthe

purchasedloansandprovisionsandrecoveriesofcreditlossesonthe

purchasedportfolio.Amountsexcludedfromadjustedresultsinprior

yearsincludedcredit-relateditemsinrespectofthepurchased

performingloanportfolio,acquisitionintegrationcosts,restructuring

costsandrun-offstructuredcreditactivities.
EffectiveNovember1,2013,weadoptedseveralnewandamended
accountingpronouncementsissuedbytheInternationalAccounting

StandardsBoard(IASB),whichareoutlinedinNote1onpage128ofthe

financialstatements.
Inthefirstquarterof2013,wechangedthewayinwhichwe
evaluateouroperatingsegmentstoreflecttheprovisionsforcredit

lossesonanactualcreditlossbasis.Thechangeinallocationmethod-

ologyenhancestheassessmentofperformanceagainstourpeergroup.

Previously,wehadchargedtheoperatinggroupswithcreditlosses

basedonanexpectedlossprovisioningmethodologywherebyCorpo-

rateServiceswascharged(orcredited)withdifferencesbetweenthe
periodicprovisionsforcreditlosseschargedtotheoperatinggroup

segmentsunderourexpectedlossprovisioningmethodologyandthe

periodicprovisionsrequiredunderGAAP.Aspartofthischange,the

interestincomeresultingfromtheaccretionofthenetpresentvalueof

impairedloansisalsoincludedinoperatinggroupnetinterestincome.

Priorperiodresultshavebeenrestatedaccordingly.Provisionsforthe

purchasedperformingandpurchasedcreditimpairedloanportfolios

continuetobeevaluatedandreportedinCorporateServices.
During2013,werefinedourmethodologyfortheallocationof
certainrevenuesinCorporateServicesbygeographicregion.Asa

consequence,wehavereallocatedcertainrevenuesreportedinprior

periodsfromCanadatotheUnitedStatesinCorporateServices.
During2012,WealthManagementandCanadianP&Centeredinto
anagreementthatchangesthewaytheyreportthefinancialresults

relatedtoretailmutualfundsales.
BMOanalyzesrevenueattheconsolidatedlevelbasedonGAAP
revenuereflectedintheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsratherthan

onataxableequivalentbasis(teb),whichisconsistentwithourCana-

dianpeergroup.Likemanybanks,weanalyzerevenueonatebbasisat

theoperatinggrouplevel.Thisbasisincludesanadjustmentthat

increasesGAAPrevenueandtheGAAPprovisionforincometaxesbyan

amountthatwouldraiserevenuesoncertaintax-exemptitemstoa

levelequivalenttoamountsthatwouldincurtaxatthestatutoryrate.

TheoffsettothegrouptebadjustmentsisreflectedinCorporateServ-

icesrevenueandincometaxprovisions.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
43MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
PersonalandCommercialBanking
ThePersonalandCommercialBanking(P&C)operatinggrouprepresentsthesumofourtworetailandbusinessbankingoperatingsegments,
CanadianPersonalandCommercialBanking(CanadianP&C)andU.S.PersonalandCommercialBanking(U.S.P&C).Theseoperatingsegmentsare

reviewedseparatelyinthesectionsthatfollow.
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)

AsatorfortheyearendedOctober31
CanadianP&CU.S.P&CTotalP&C
201420132012
201420132012
201420132012
Netinterestincome(teb)
4,7724,5264,467
2,4882,3272,405
7,2606,8536,872
Non-interestrevenue
1,7231,5801,517
569579589
2,2922,1592,106
Totalrevenue(teb)
6,4956,1065,984
3,0572,9062,994
9,5529,0128,978
Provisionforcreditlosses
541572613
164223274
705795887
Non-interestexpense
3,2603,1263,043
2,0051,8691,915
5,2654,9954,958
Incomebeforeincometaxes
2,6942,4082,328
888814805
3,5823,2223,133
Provisionforincometaxes(teb)
680596579
240233234
920829813
Reportednetincome
2,0141,8121,749
648581571
2,6622,3932,320
Amortizationofacquisition-relatedintangibleassets
(1)81010
485064
566074
Adjustednetincome
2,0221,8221,759
696631635
2,7182,4532,394
KeyPerformanceMetricsandDrivers
Netincomegrowth
(%)11.13.62.1
11.51.8+100
11.23.217.6
Adjustednetincomegrowth
(%)11.03.62.2
10.2(0.5)+100
10.82.518.7
Revenuegrowth
(%)6.42.1(3.3)
5.2(3.0)49.7
6.00.49.6
Non-interestexpensegrowth
(%)4.32.7(2.9)
7.2(2.4)55.5
5.40.813.6
Adjustednon-interestexpensegrowth
(%)4.32.8(3.0)
8.0(1.6)54.0
5.71.112.7
Returnonequity
(%)16.716.917.8
Adjustedreturnonequity
(%)17.017.318.4
Operatingleverage(teb)
(%)2.1(0.6)(0.4)
(2.0)(0.6)(5.8)
0.6(0.4)(4.0)
Adjustedoperatingleverage(teb)
(%)2.1(0.7)(0.3)
(2.8)(1.4)(4.3)
0.3(0.7)(3.1)
Efficiencyratio(teb)
(%)50.251.250.8
65.664.364.0
55.155.455.2
Adjustedefficiencyratio(teb)
(%)50.151.050.7
63.461.760.8
54.354.554.1
Netinterestmarginonaverageearningassets(teb)
(%)2.592.642.85
3.743.994.31
2.902.983.23
Averagecommonequity
15,41013,72312,611
Averageearningassets
183,947
171,285156,723
66,56558,36955,857
250,512229,654212,580
Averagecurrentloansandacceptances
188,330
175,079159,484
59,84852,42150,711
248,178227,500210,195
Averagedeposits
124,930
113,912106,555
64,97360,64559,147
189,903174,557165,702
Assetsunderadministration
17,486
16,14815,521
123,082112,73296,803
140,568128,880112,324
Full-timeequivalentemployees
15,921
15,94516,197
7,7537,9327,906
23,67423,87724,103
(1)Beforetaxamountsof:$76millionin2014;$87millionin2013;and$105millionin2012areincludedinnon-interestexpense.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
44BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ACanadianPersonalandCommercialBanking
CanadianPersonalandCommercialBankingprovidesafullrangeoffinancial
productsandservicestomorethansevenmillioncustomers.We’reheretohelp

ourcustomersmaketherightfinancialdecisionsastheydobusinesswithus

throughtheirchannelofchoice:inourbranches,ontheirmobiledevices,online,

overthetelephone,andthroughourautomatedbankingmachines.
CameronFowler
GroupHead

CanadianPersonalandCommercialBanking

BMOFinancialGroup
LinesofBusiness
PersonalBanking
providescustomerswithawiderangeofproductsand
services,includingchequingandsavingsaccounts,creditcards,mortgages,

creditorinsuranceandeverydayfinancialandinvestmentadvice.
CommercialBanking
providessmallbusinessandcommercialbanking
customerswithabroadsuiteofcommercialproductsandservices,

includingbusinessdepositaccounts,commercialcreditcards,business

loansandcommercialmortgages,cashmanagementsolutions,foreign

exchangeandspecializedbankingprograms.
StrengthsandValueDrivers
‰Highlyengagedteamof16,000employeesfocusedonanticipating
customers’needs,findingwaystohelpandprovidingapersonalized

bankingexperience.
‰Award-winningmobileandonlinebankingservices.
‰LargestMasterCard
®issuerinCanadaasmeasuredbytransaction
volumes,andoneofthetopcommercialcardissuersinNorth

America.
‰Highlyexperiencedteamofcommercialbankerswithdeepknowl-

edge;specializedbankingprograms,includingAutomotiveFinancefor

Dealerships,Agriculture,HealthcareandFranchising.
‰Strongcompetitivepositionincommercialbanking,reflectedinour

numbertworankinginmarketshareforbusinessloansof$25million

andless.
‰Effectiveandconsistentlyappliedcreditriskmanagementpractices

thatprovidecustomerswithreliableaccesstoappropriatefinancing

solutionsinalleconomicconditions.
StrategyandKeyPriorities
Ourstrategyisfocusedonimprovingsalesproductivityanddeliveringa

differentiatedcustomerexperiencetodrivepeerleadingorganicgrowth.
Achieveindustry-leadingemployeeengagementandcustomer
loyalty2014Achievements
‰Achievedexemplaryemployeeengagementandcommitmentto
providingadifferentiatedcustomerexperience.Scoresinourannual

employeesurveyindicatedahighlevelofconfidenceinBMOandour

customer-focusedstrategy.
‰Achievedtop-tiercustomerloyaltyasmeasuredbyNetPromoter

Score.Enhancedourmethodologytoprovideouremployeeswitha

deeperunderstandingofloyaltydriversatbothafullrelationshipand

transactionlevel.
2015Focus
‰Continuetofocusonachievingindustry-leadingemployeeengage-

mentandcustomerloyalty.
Expandrelationshipswithourpersonalbankingcustomers
2014Achievements
‰Achievedstrongpersonallendinganddepositgrowthof7%and10%,

respectively.
‰OursuccessfulUPGRADEcardcampaigngeneratedmorethandouble

thenumberofnewaccountsopenedintheprioryear.
‰OurSummerEverydayBankingcampaigngeneratedgrowthof10%in

newchequingaccountacquisitions.
‰Ourleadsmanagementenginecontinuedtoprovideourcustomers

withrelevantandtimelyoffersandservices,increasingshareof

walletandcontributingtothepersonalbankingrevenuegrowth

achievedin2014.
2015Focus
‰Increaseshareofwalletandattractnewcustomersinunder-

representedcustomersegmentsandproducts.
Drivegrowthincommerciallendinganddepositsthroughtargeted
opportunities2014Achievements
‰Achievedcommerciallendinganddepositgrowthof10%and9%,
respectively,whileadheringtoprudentriskmanagementpractices.
‰Implementednewcommercialorganizationalstructureandimproved

ourperformancemanagementprocesstoenhancesalesforcepro-

ductivity.‰SuccessfullycompletedapilotprogramforBMODepositEdge
™thatwillprovidebusinesseswiththecapabilitytodepositcheques

remotely.2015Focus
‰Continuetogrowourcommercialbusinessbytargetingopportunities

bygeography,segmentandindustry.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
45MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
201420132012Reported Net Income($ millions)1,7491,8122,014201420132012Average Current Loans and Acceptances($ billions)PersonalCommercial138.3129.3117.941.645.850.0201420132012Average Deposits($ billions)Personal
Commercial79.6 72.569.637.041.445.3Buildanintegratedandseamlesschannelexperience,and
accelerateourdigitalandphysicalchannelcapabilities
2014Achievements
‰EnhancedourBMOmobilebankingapplication,whichprovides
customerswithenhancedcapabilities,includingtheabilitytosend

Interac®e-Transfersandbookbranchappointmentsanywhere,any-
time.Theupdatedapplicationhasbeenwellreceivedbyour

customers,andthenumberofmobiletransactionshasnearlydoubled

overthepastyear.
‰FirstCanadianbanktogivecustomerstheabilitytotransfermoney

betweenCanadianandU.S.dollaraccountsthroughmobilebanking.
‰Implementedanewcommerciallendingplatformwithend-to-end

adjudicationcapabilities,enablingconsistentprocessexecutionanda

bettercustomerexperience.
‰Completedconversionofourretailcreditcardportfoliotoabetter

platform,providingenhancedfunctionalityaswellasstrongerrisk

managementcapabilities.
‰Openedorupgraded93branchesacrossCanadaandexpandedour

ABMnetworkby116.
2015Focus
‰Enhanceourdigitalcapabilitiesandprovideaseamlesschannel

experience.FinancialReview
CanadianP&Creportednetincomeof$2,014million,up$202millionor

11%fromayearago.Revenueincreased$389millionor6%to

$6,495million.Revenuegrowthwasatorabove6%eachquarterdriven

bystrongloananddepositgrowth.Operatingleveragewas2.1%and

therewasa100basispointimprovementinourefficiencyratio.
Revenueincreased$239millionor6%inourpersonalbanking
businessandrevenueincreased$150millionor7%inourcommercial

bankingbusiness,mainlydrivenbygrowthinbalancesandfeesacross

mostproducts.
Provisionsforcreditlossesdeclined$31millionor5%to
$541million,duetolowerprovisionsinboththecommercialand

consumerportfolios.
Non-interestexpensewas$3,260million,up$134millionor4%
fromayearago,primarilyduetocontinuedinvestmentinthebusiness,

netofexpensemanagement.
CanadianP&C
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
AsatorfortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
Netinterestincome
4,7724,5264,467
Non-interestrevenue
1,7231,5801,517
Totalrevenue
6,4956,1065,984
Provisionforcreditlosses
541572613
Non-interestexpense
3,2603,1263,043
Incomebeforeincometaxes
2,6942,4082,328
Provisionforincometaxes
680596579
Reportednetincome
2,0141,8121,749
Amortizationofacquisition-related
intangibleassets
(1)81010
Adjustednetincome
2,0221,8221,759
KeyPerformanceMetricsandDrivers
Personalrevenue
4,2714,0323,934
Commercialrevenue
2,2242,0742,050
Netincomegrowth
(%)11.13.62.1
Revenuegrowth
(%)6.42.1(3.3)
Non-interestexpensegrowth
(%)4.32.7(2.9)
Operatingleverage
(%)2.1(0.6)(0.4)
Efficiencyratio
(%)50.251.250.8
Netinterestmarginonaverageearning
assets(%)2.592.642.85
Averageearningassets
183,947171,285156,723
Averagecurrentloansandacceptances
188,330175,079159,484
Averagedeposits
124,930113,912106,555
Full-timeequivalentemployees
15,92115,94516,197
(1)Beforetaxamountsof$10millionin2014,$12millionin2013,and$11millionin2012are
includedinnon-interestexpense.
Averagecurrentloansandacceptancesincreased$13.3billionor
8%fromayearagoto$188.3billion.Totalpersonallendingbalances
(excludingretailcards)increased7%yearoveryear,drivenbystrong

residentialmortgagegrowth.Creditcardbalancesincreased2%,

reflectingmodestlyhighergrowthinbothretailandcorporatecards.

Broad-basedgrowthacrossindustrysectorscontributedtocommercial

loanbalances(excludingcorporatecards)increasing10%yearover

year.Averagedepositsincreased$11.0billionor10%to$124.9billion.
Personaldepositbalancesincreased10%,mainlyduetogrowthinterm

deposits,aswellasgrowthinprimarychequingaccounts.Commercial

depositbalancesgrew9%withgrowthcomingacrossawidenumberof

sectors.Weexpecttogeneraterevenuegrowthbytargetingopportunities
toattractnewcustomersandincreasingourshareofwalletwhilecon-

tinuingtoimproveproductivity.
46BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ABusinessEnvironment,Outlook
andChallenges
Canada’seconomyisexpectedtogrowmoderatelyin2015,reflecting
risinglevelsofbusinessinvestmentandexportsinresponsetothe

strengtheningU.S.economyandaweakerCanadiandollar.
IntheCanadianpersonalbankingsector,retailoperatingdeposits
areprojectedtogrowin2015byapproximately5%,slightlybelow2014

levelsandinlinewiththeexpectedincreaseinpersonalincome.Credit

cardloanbalancesgrewbyapproximately3%in2014andthisgrowth

isprojectedtostrengthengraduallynextyear.Theslowdowninresi-

dentialmortgagegrowthoverthepastseveralyearsappearstobe

ending,with2015growthratesexpectedtobeinlinewith2014levels

ofapproximately5%.Moderateincreasesanticipatedinemploymentin

2015shouldkeepthedemandforhousingandhouseprices

fairlysteady.
Inthecommercialbankingsector,growthincommercialoperating
depositsisexpectedtomoderatein2015fromdouble-digitlevelsin

2014.Withahigherrateofeconomicgrowth,companiesareexpected

toreducetheirprecautionarysavingsandincreasebusinessinvestment.
Wewilltargetgrowthinunder-representedcustomersegmentsand
products,aswellasbycontinuingtoimproveoursalesforcepro-

ductivity.Whiletheindustryfacesincreasinglycomplexregulatory,

informationsecurityandfraudpreventionrequirements,ourrobustand

effectivegovernanceframeworkcontinuestopositionuswelltomon-

itoranysuchchangesandrespondaccordingly.Withcompetitionfor

skilledresourcesbecomingmoreintense,wecontinuetomonitor

employeeengagementtoensurethatBMOremainsatorabovethe

financialindustryaverage.
TheCanadianeconomicenvironmentin2014andoutlookfor2015
arediscussedinmoredetailintheEconomicDevelopmentsandOutlook

sectiononpage30.
CautionThisCanadianP&CBankingsectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.PleaseseetheCaution

RegardingForward-LookingStatements.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
47MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
U.S.PersonalandCommercialBanking
Wehelpmorethantwomillioncustomersfeelconfidentinthedecisionsthey
make.Ourretailandsmallandmid-sizedbusinessbankingcustomersareserved

throughourmorethan600branches,contactcentres,onlineandmobilebanking

platformsandmorethan1,300ABMsacrosseightstates.Weofferfinancial

expertisetoourcommercialbankingcustomerswithin-depth,specific

industryknowledgeandstrategiccapitalmarketssolutions.
MarkFurlong
GroupHead

U.S.PersonalandCommercialBanking

andCEO,BMOHarrisBankN.A.Chicago
LinesofBusiness
PersonalBanking
offersabroadrangeofproductsandservicesto
individuals,aswellassmallandmid-sizedbusinesscustomers,including

deposits,mortgages,consumercredit,businesslending,creditcardsand

otherbankingservices.
CommercialBanking
provideslargerbusinesseswithabroadrange
ofbankingproductsandservices,includinglending,deposits,treasury

managementandriskmanagement.
StrengthsandValueDrivers
‰Richheritageofmorethan160yearsintheU.S.Midwest,withadeep
commitmenttothecommunityandhelpingourcustomerssucceed.
‰Strong,experiencedleadershipteamthatknowshowtocompeteand

excelinourmarkets.
‰Enviableplatformforprofitablegrowthprovidedbyourattractive

branchfootprintandtop-tierdepositmarketshareinkeyU.S.

Midwestmarkets.
‰Large-scale,relationship-basednationalcommercialbankingbusiness

basedintheU.S.Midwest,within-depthindustryknowledgein

selectsectors.
‰Weactivelymanagerisksandregulatorycompliancethrougha

comprehensiveandintegratedcontrolstructure.
StrategyandKeyPriorities
Weaimtogrowourbusinessandbealeaderinourmarketsbycreating

adifferentiatedcustomerexperienceandhelpingourcustomerswitha

widerangeoffinancialtopics,leveragingourbrandreputation,local

presenceandhigh-performanceteams.
Deliveragreatcustomerexperiencetoaloyal,profitableand
growingcustomerbase
2014Achievements
‰Loananddepositsalestoourmassaffluentcustomersgrewby60%
and26%,respectively.
‰Positivecustomerresponseonourmid-marketbusinessbankerper-

formancesurvey,withhighmarksfortrust,confidenceand

responsiveness.Thenumberofnewbusinessbankingcustomerswas

20%higherthanintheprioryear.
‰InIllinois,launchedBMOHarrisHealthyCredit
TM,aninnovativeservice
thateducatescustomersabouttheircreditscoreswhentheyopena

depositaccount.
‰Enhancedcustomersatisfactionmonitoringwiththeintroductionof

CustomerPulseU.S.,whichprovidesfrequentupdatesoncustomers’

needsandenablesafasterresponsefrommanagement.
2015Focus
‰Maintainstrongcustomerloyaltyandincreasebrandawareness,

whilegrowingourcustomerbaseinhigh-opportunitysegments,

includingtheLatinocommunityandmassaffluentandearlierlife

stageconsumers.
Continuetoimproveourproductandchannelcapabilitiestobetter
meetourcustomers’needs
2014Achievements
‰Enhancedourmobilebankingplatformtoenableourcustomersto
bookappointmentswithbranchstaff.Thenumberofcustomers

accessingourmobilebankingplatformgrewby18%andmobile

bankingdepositsincreasedby60%.
‰Increasedthetotalsalesgeneratedpermortgagebankerby37%

throughenhancedcoaching,whichfocusedonboththerealtorand

purchasebusinessandamoreeffectiveapproachtocustomerinter-

actionduringthecreditapprovalprocess.
‰Increasedcorebusinessbankingloanbalancesthroughcontinual

coachingthatfocusedonimprovinginteractionswithcustomers.
‰Enhancedtrainingforourtreasurysalesforce,resultinginabetter

clientexperienceandgainsinproductivityof22%overtheprioryear

forcommercialbankingand53%forbusinessbanking.
2015Focus
‰Continuetobuildfoundationalcapabilitiesinproducts,digitalchan-

nels,ourcustomeracquisitionengineandbranchformat.
Improvefinancialperformancebygrowingrevenueandeffectively
managingcosts
2014Achievements
‰Totalloansgrewby$2.9billionor5%,whilethecorecommercialand
industrial(C&I)loanportfoliogrewby$4.0billionor18%.
‰Depositsremainedstable,whilechequingaccountbalancesgrewby

$2.7billionor9%.Wemaintainedthenumberfourmarketshare

positionwithinourprimaryfootprintofIllinois,Wisconsin,Missouri,

Kansas,IndianaandMinnesota.
‰Goodmomentuminthesecondhalfoftheyear,with2%year-over-

yearrevenuegrowthandfull-yearadjustednetincomegrowthof3%.
‰Continuedtomanageexpenseseffectivelydespitehigherregulatory

costsandongoinginvestmentsinthebusiness.
2015Focus
‰Increaseloananddepositbalanceswhilefocusingon

costmanagement.
48BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&A201420132012Adjusted Net Income(US$ millions)632619636201420132012Average Deposits(US$ billions)PersonalCommercial201420132012Average Current Loans and Acceptances(US$ billions)Personal
Commercial26.024.524.626.823.930.817.741.319.739.621.737.7Continuetodeployouruniquecommercialoperatingmodelby
deliveringlocalaccessandindustryexpertisetoourclientsacrossa

broadgeographicfootprint
2014Achievements
‰Continuedfocusonnewclientacquisitionsresultedinanincreaseof
9%innewclientrelationshipsover2013base.
‰StrongcoreC&Iandcommercialrealestateloangrowth,withyear-

over-yearincreasesof18%inbothsegments.
‰Strongfocusonourcorporatepaymentsbusiness,whichhadan

increaseof6%intransactionalrevenuesfromtheprioryear.
2015Focus
‰Keepbuildingonthestrengthofourcommercialbankingbusiness,

focusingonnewclientacquisitions,increasingourmarketshareand

extendingourcorporatepaymentspenetration.
FinancialReview
AmountsinthissectionareexpressedinU.S.dollars.
Netincomeof$592millionincreased$22millionor4%fromayear
ago.Adjustednetincomeof$636millionincreased$17millionor3%.
Revenuedecreased$45millionor2%to$2,796millionasthe
benefitsofstrongcommercialloangrowthweremorethanoffsetbythe

effectsoflowernetinterestmarginandreducedmortgagebanking

revenue.
Inourcommercialbankingbusiness,revenueincreased$52million
or4%to$1,386million,reflectingstrongloanbalancegrowth,primarily

inthecoreC&Iloanportfolio,partlyoffsetbytheimpactofcompetitive

spreadcompression.
Inourpersonalbankingbusiness,revenuedecreasedby
$110millionor7%to$1,363million,primarilyduetodeclinesinloan

spreadsandbalancesandreducedmortgagebankingrevenue.
Netinterestmargindecreasedby25basispointsto3.74%,driven
bycompetitiveloanpricing,changesinmixincludingloansgrowing

fasterthandepositsandthelowrateenvironment.
Provisionsforcreditlossesof$150milliondeclinedby$67million
or31%fromayearago,primarilyreflectingbettercreditqualityinthe

consumerloanportfolio.
Non-interestexpenseof$1,833millionincreased$7million.
Adjustednon-interestexpenseof$1,772millionincreased$20million

or1%,aswecontinuetofocusonproductivitywhilemakingselective

investmentsinthebusinessandrespondingtoregulatorychanges.
U.S.P&C
(US$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
AsatorfortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
Netinterestincome(teb)
2,2752,2742,398
Non-interestrevenue
521567588
Totalrevenue(teb)
2,7962,8412,986
Provisionforcreditlosses
150217273
Non-interestexpense
1,8331,8261,910
Incomebeforeincometaxes
813798803
Provisionforincometaxes(teb)
221228234
Reportednetincome
592570569
Amortizationofacquisition-related
intangibleassets
(1)444963
Adjustednetincome
636619632
KeyPerformanceMetricsandDrivers
Netincomegrowth
(%)3.9–+100
Adjustednetincomegrowth
(%)2.7(2.2)+100
Revenuegrowth
(%)(1.6)(4.9)47.4
Non-interestexpensegrowth
(%)0.4(4.4)53.2
Adjustednon-interestexpensegrowth
(%)1.1(3.5)51.6
Operatingleverage(teb)
(%)(2.0)(0.5)(5.7)
Adjustedoperatingleverage(teb)
(%)(2.7)(1.3)(4.2)
Efficiencyratio(teb)
(%)65.664.364.0
Adjustedefficiencyratio(teb)
(%)63.461.760.8
Netinterestmarginonaverageearning
assets(teb)
(%)3.743.994.31
Averageearningassets
60,84557,02355,682
Averagecurrentloansandacceptances
54,70651,35650,549
Averagedeposits
59,40359,25758,964
Full-timeequivalentemployees
7,7537,9327,906
(1)Beforetaxamountsof:$61millionin2014;$74millionin2013;and$94millionin2012are
includedinnon-interestexpense.
Averagecurrentloansandacceptancesincreased$3.4billionto
$54.7billion.ThecoreC&Iloanportfoliocontinuestoexperiencestrong
growth,increasingby$4.0billionor18%fromayearagoto

$26.5billion.Wehavegrownourcommercialrealestateportfolioby

$0.5billionor18%inadditiontogrowingourindirectautomobileloan

portfolioby$0.8billionor13%fromayearago.Theseincreasesparti-

allyoffsetdecreasesinhomeequityandmortgageloans,dueinpartto

theeffectsofourcontinuedpracticeofsellingmostmortgageorigi-

nationsinthesecondarymarketandouractiveloanportfolio

management.Averagedepositsof$59.4billionwererelativelyunchanged,as
growthinourcommercialbusinessandinourpersonalchequing

accountswasoffsetbyaplannedreductioninhigher-costpersonal

moneymarketandtimedepositaccounts.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
49MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
BusinessEnvironment,Outlook
andChallenges
U.S.P&Chasasignificantfootprintineightstates,primarilyconcentrated
insixcontiguousstates(Illinois,Wisconsin,Indiana,Minnesota,Missouri

andKansas).
Aftermodestgrowthin2013,theU.S.Midwesteconomyisonpace
togrowby2.1%in2014,withthatrateexpectedtoreach2.7%in2015.

Anincreaseinbusinessinvestments,expansionintheautomobilesector

andacontinuedrecoveryinhousingmarketssupportedgrowthin2014,

whilefiscalpoliciesbecamelessrestrictive.Growthinconsumerand

commercialloansacceleratedin2014,althoughresidentialmortgage

growthwasstrainedbytightermortgagelendingrules.Consumerloan

volumesareexpectedtotrendhigherin2015duetorelativelylow

interestrates,improvedhouseholdfinancesandpent-updemandfor

automobiles.Residentialmortgagegrowthwilllikelypickupas

housingaffordabilityremainshealthy.Commercialloangrowthshould

remainstronginresponsetohigherlevelsofexpectedactivityacross

ourfootprint.
ThebankingenvironmentintheU.S.Midwestremainshighly
competitiveandthelowinterestrateenvironmentcontinuestobe

challengingforthebankingindustry.Wearecontinuingtoconcentrate

onourcustomer-focusedgrowthstrategyandcommercialsector

expertisetogenerategrowthinourloananddepositbalancesand

improveourfinancialperformance,whileactivelymanagingcoststo

achievegreaterefficiency.Weexpecttodelivergrowthwhilestill

operatingwithintheparametersofourriskappetite,andwewillcon-

tinuetoactivelymanagerisksandregulatorycompliancethrougha

reinforcedoversightandcontrolstructure.
TheU.S.economicenvironmentin2014andoutlookfor2015are
discussedinmoredetailintheEconomicDevelopmentsandOutlook

sectiononpage30.
CautionThisU.S.P&CBankingsectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.PleaseseetheCaution

RegardingForward-LookingStatements.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
50BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ABMOWealthManagement
BMO’swealthbusinessservesafullrangeofclientsegmentsfrommainstreamto
ultrahighnetworthandinstitutional,withabroadofferingofwealthmanagement

productsandservicesincludinginsuranceproducts.WealthManagementisaglobal

businesswithanactivepresenceinmarketsacrossCanada,theUnitedStates,

EuropeandAsia.
GillesOuellette
GroupHead

WealthManagement
LinesofBusiness
BMONesbittBurns,
ourfull-serviceinvestingbusinessinCanada,offers
comprehensiveandclient-focusedinvestmentandwealthadvisory

servicesleveragingstrongfinancialplanningcapabilities.
BMOInvestorLine
isanonlineinvestingservicethatoffersclientstwo
waystoinvest:clientscanchooseourtop-rankedself-directedservice,
whichprovidestoolstohelpinvestorsmakeindependentinvestment

decisions;oradviceDirect™,whichprovidesinvestorswithonlineadvice

andinvestmentrecommendationsfortheirportfolios.
BMO’sPrivateBanking
businessesoperateinCanada,theUnitedStates,
HongKongandSingapore,offeringacomprehensiverangeoffinancial
servicesandsolutionstohighnetworthandultrahighnetworthclients

and,underBMOHarrisFinancialAdvisors,tomassaffluentclientsinthe

UnitedStates.
BMOGlobalAssetManagement
isaglobalinvestmentorganization
thatprovidesinvestmentmanagement,retirement,andtrustand

custodyservicestoinstitutional,retailandhighnetworthinvestors

aroundtheworld.
BMOInsurance
operatesinCanadaandinternationally.InCanada,
wemanufacturelifeinsurance,accidentandsicknessinsurance,and
annuityproductsthataremarketedbothtobrokersanddirectlyto

individuals.Ourcreditorinsurancedivisionmarketsgroupcreditor

insurance,andinternationally,weprovidereinsurancesolutions.
StrengthsandValueDrivers
‰Planningandadvice-basedapproachthatintegratesinvestments,
insurance,specializedwealthmana
gementandcorebankingsolutions.
‰Teamofhighlyskilledwealthprofessionalscommittedtoprovidingan

exceptionalclientexperience.
‰Brandprestige,recognitionandtrust.
‰StrongnationalpresenceinCanada,aswellasstrategicpositioningin

theUnitedStatesandselectglobalmarketsincludingEuropeandAsia.
‰AccesstoBMO’sbroadclientbaseanddistributionnetworks.
‰Atransparent,strongandeffectiveriskmanagementframeworkthat

enablesustooperatewithinourriskappetite,effectivelymonitoring

riskpositionsandlimitsandrespondingtoheightenedregulatory

expectations.StrategyandKeyPriorities
Ourvisionistobethewealthmanagementsolutionsproviderthat

definesgreatclientexperience.Ourstrategyistodeliveronourcli-

ents’wealthmanagementneedsnowandinthefuturebyenhancing

theclientexperience,whilefocusingonproductivityandinvestingfor

futuregrowth.
Enhanceourclients’experiencebydeliveringontheirevolving
wealthmanagementneeds
2014Achievements
‰Enhanceddigitalclientexperiencewithafocusonconvenienceand
value.
‰Achievedassetsundermanagementandadministrationgrowthof

$242billionor44%fromayearagoto$794billion,withtheacquired

F&Cbusinesscontributing$150billiontotheincrease.
‰Continuedtodevelopnewproductsdesignedtorespondtoclients’

emergingneeds.LaunchedsevennewETFfundsthisyearandgrew

ETFassetsundermanagementtoover$17billion,representinga

year-over-yearincreaseof45%inassetsundermanagement.
‰BMONesbittBurnslaunchedanewwebpagedesignedtoeducateand

recruitwomenforinvestmentadvisorycareers.BMOisthefirstfinan-

cialinstitutioninCanadatodoso.
‰Receivednumerousawards,includingBestWealthManagementin

Canada,2014(
GlobalBankingandFinanceReview),
BMOHarrisPri-
vateBankingnamedBestPrivateBank–Canada,2014(
WorldFinance
MagazineandGlobalBankingandFinanceReview
),andBMONesbitt
BurnsnamedBestFull-ServiceInvestmentAdvisoryinCanada(
GlobalBankingandFinanceReview
).2015Focus
‰Attractnewclientsandfocusondeliveringatailoredclientexperience.
Streamlineourproductsandsimplifyourprocesses
2014Achievements
‰Enhancedteam-basedclientservicemodeltoprovideaholistic

approachthatsupportsclientsastheymovethroughdifferent

lifestages.
‰Leveragedprocesstransformationtoincreasecapacityforoursales

forceandstreamlineourlendingprocesses.
‰Completedenhancementstoourfinancialplanningtooltodeliver

intuitiveandcustomizedgraphics,additionalretirementandscenario

planningfeatures,improveduserinterface,andclientreporting.
‰Launchedpilottrainingprogramtodevelopbest-in-classsalesand

relationshipmanagementcapabilities.
2015Focus
‰Continuetoimproveproductivitywithemphasisonincreasing

revenueperemployee.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
51MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
2014 Revenue byLine of Business (%)BMO Nesbitt Burns 31%BMO Insurance 12%BMO Global AssetManagement
28%BMO™s Private Banking Businesses 
24%BMO InvestorLine 5%Adjusted Net Income($ millions) 201220132014
548857848WealthInsuranceAssets under Managementand Administration ($ billions)201220132014Assets under administrationAssets under management172.1313.3194.2357.6379.6414.5Investinourpeople,products,technologyandfootprinttodrive
futuregrowth
2014Achievements
‰CompletedtheacquisitionofF&CAssetManagementplc(F&C).This
acquisitionstrengthensthepositionofBMOGlobalAssetManagement

asagloballysignificantmoneymanager,addingscale,capabilities

andresourcestoitsassetmanagementplatformandprovidingattrac-

tivecross-sellingopportunities.
‰Continuedtoexpandoursalesforcesinstrategicallyimportantsegments.
‰Leveragedinvestmentsintechnologytodrivesalesandimprove

efficiency.2015Focus
‰Investinoursalesforceandenhancetechnologytodriverevenue

growth.FinancialReview
WealthManagementnetincomewas$785million,comparedto

$830millionayearago.Adjustednetincome,whichexcludesthe

amortizationofacquisition-relatedintangibleassetsandacquisition

integrationcosts,was$848million,comparedto$857millionayear

ago.CurrentyearresultsreflectthecontributionfromtheacquiredF&C

businessandtheprioryearresultsincludeda$121millionafter-tax

securitygain.Excludingtheprioryearsecuritygain,WealthManage-

mentrevenue,adjustednon-interestexpenseandadjustednetincome

areup18%,19%and15%,respectively.F&Ccontributedapproximately

5%ofthegrowthineachofthesemeasures.
Adjustednetincomeintraditionalwealthwas$562millioncom-
paredto$596millionayearago,asstronggrowthfromthebusinesses

of$87millionor18%,includingthecontributionfromtheacquiredF&C

business,wasmorethanoffsetbythesecuritygainintheprioryear.

Adjustednetincomeininsurancewas$286million,up$25million

or9%.
Revenueof$3,833millionincreased$385millionor11%.Revenue
intraditionalwealthincreased$526millionor19%,excludingthe$191

millionsecuritygainintheprioryear,reflectinggrowthinclientassets

andacontributionfromtheF&Cacquisition.Insurancerevenueincreased

$50millionor12%,duetocontinuedgrowthinboththeunderlying

creditorandlifeinsurancebusinessesof10%andtheimpactofbenefi-

cialchangesinactuarialreserves.ThestrongerU.S.dollarincreased

revenueby$50millionor1%.
Therecoveryofcreditlosseswas$3millionascomparedtoa
$3millionprovisionayearago.
Non-interestexpensewas$2,834million,up$487millionor21%.
Adjustednon-interestexpensewas$2,752million,up$441millionor

19%.TheincreasewasdueprimarilytotheimpactoftheF&Cacquis-

itionandhigherrevenue-basedcostsfromorganicoperations.Current

yearresultsalsoincludecostsrelatedtothesettlementofalegal

matter,aswellashighersalesforceinvestmentsforfuturerevenue

growth.ThestrongerU.S.dollarincreasedexpensesby$44million

or2%.
WealthManagement
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
AsatorfortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
Netinterestincome
560558556
Non-interestrevenue
3,2732,8902,344
Totalrevenue
3,8333,4482,900
Provisionfor(recoveryof)creditlosses
(3)322
Non-interestexpense
2,8342,3472,215
Incomebeforeincometaxes
1,0021,098663
Provisionforincometaxes
217268136
Reportednetincome
785830527
Acquisitionintegrationcosts
(1)16––Amortizationofacquisition-related
intangibleassets
(2)472721
Adjustednetincome
848857548
KeyPerformanceMetricsandDrivers
Netincomegrowth
(%)(5.4)57.49.7
Adjustednetincomegrowth
(%)(1.0)56.411.6
Revenuegrowth
(%)11.218.911.9
Non-interestexpensegrowth
(%)20.86.013.2
Adjustednon-interestexpensegrowth
(%)19.15.712.5
Returnonequity
(%)18.628.524.2
Adjustedreturnonequity
(%)20.129.425.2
Operatingleverage
(%)(9.6)12.9(1.3)
Adjustedoperatingleverage
(%)(7.9)13.2(0.6)
Efficiencyratio
(%)73.968.176.4
Adjustedefficiencyratio
(%)71.867.075.4
Netinterestmarginonaverageearning
assets(%)2.652.873.11
Averagecommonequity
4,1812,8842,143
Averageearningassets
21,16919,39917,875
Averagecurrentloansandacceptances
12,89711,90910,833
Averagedeposits
24,91223,33721,753
Assetsunderadministration
414,547357,594313,337
Assetsundermanagement
379,606194,158172,076
Full-timeequivalentemployees
6,7926,0056,108
U.S.BusinessSelectFinancialData
(US$inmillions)
Totalrevenue
720886701
Non-interestexpense
658585555
Reportednetincome
5319987
Adjustednetincome
73220102
Averageearningassets
3,0282,6872,914
Averagecurrentloansandacceptances
2,6292,5102,650
Averagedeposits
5,8344,9474,960
(1)F&Cacquisitionintegrationcostsof$20millionbeforetaxin2014areincludedinnon-
interestexpense.
(2)Beforetaxamountsof:$62millionin2014;$36millionin2013;and$28millionin2012are
includedinnon-interestexpense.
Assetsundermanagementandadministrationgrewby$242billion
to$794billion,withtheacquiredF&Cbusinesscontributing$150billion.
ExcludingF&C,assetsundermanagementandadministrationgrewby

$92billion,drivenbymarketappreciation,thestrongerU.S.dollarand

growthinnewclientassets.
NetincomeinWealthManagementU.S.businesseswasUS$53
million.AdjustednetincomeinWealthManagementU.S.businesseswas

US$73million,comparedtoUS$220millionayearago,duetotheprior

yearsecuritygain,costsrelatedtothesettlementofalegalmatterinthe

currentyearandsalesforceinvestmentsforfuturerevenuegrowth.
52BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ABusinessEnvironment,Outlook
andChallenges
EconomicgrowthinCanadaimprovedfurthertoapproximately2.4%
whiletheUnitedStatesremainedatapproximately2.3%infiscal2014.

CanadianandU.S.stockmarketsrecordedyear-over-yeargainsinfiscal

2014despiterecentweakness.Ourstrongclientassetgrowthand

increaseintransactionvolumeshavebenefitedfromthefavourable

investmentclimateinadditiontogrowthdrivenbyourstrategies

focusedonenhancingclientexperience,productinnovationandsales

forceinvestments.
In2015weanticipatethatasustainedlevelofhealthyactivityin
equitymarketswillcontinuetopositivelyinfluencebothtransaction

volumesandassetlevels.Interestratesmaystarttoriseinthefallof

2015inCanadaandthemiddleofyearintheUnitedStateswhichwill

haveapositiveimpactonourinsurancebusiness.
Changingdemographics,particularlyintheretirement,mass
affluentandhighnetworthsectorswillcontinuetodrivetheNorth

Americanwealthmanagementindustryoverthelongerterm.Tailoring
ourofferingforkeyclientsegments,enhancingourteam-basedclient

servicemodeltoprovideaholisticapproachthatsupportsclientsasthey

movethroughdifferentlifestagesandkeepingpacewithtechnology

advancementsarewaysinwhichwecancontinuetomeetourclients’

evolvingneeds.
Wehaveexperiencedsignificantgrowth,bothorganicallyand
throughstrategicacquisitions.OurrecentF&Cacquisitionfurther

strengthensourpositionasagloballysignificantmoneymanagerand

supportsourplanstooffertrulyglobalservicestoourclientsacrossour

internationalfootprint.
TheCanadianandU.S.economicenvironmentinfiscal2014andthe
outlookforfiscal2015arediscussedinmoredetailintheEconomic

DevelopmentsandOutlooksectiononpage30.
CautionThisWealthManagementsectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.PleaseseetheCaution

RegardingForward-LookingStatements.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
53MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
BMOCapitalMarkets
DarrylWhite
GroupHead
BMOCapitalMarkets
BMOCapitalMarketsisaNorthAmerican-basedfinancialservicesprovideroffering
acompleterangeofproductsandservicestocorporate,institutional,and

governmentclients.BMOCapitalMarketshasapproximately2,400professionalsin

29locationsaroundtheworld,including16officesinNorthAmerica.
LinesofBusiness
InvestmentandCorporateBanking
offersclientsdebtandequity
capital-raisingservices,aswellasloanoriginationandsyndication,
balancesheetmanagementsolutionsandtreasurymanagement

services.Weprovidestrategicadviceonmergersandacquisitions,

restructuringsandrecapitalizations,aswellasvaluationandfairness

opinions.Wealsooffertradefinanceandriskmitigationservicesto

supporttheinternationalbusinessactivitiesofourclientsandprovide

awiderangeofbankingandotheroperatingservicestailoredto

NorthAmericanandinternationalfinancialinstitutions.
TradingProducts
offersresearchandaccesstoglobalmarketsfor
institutional,corporateandretailclientsthroughanintegratedsuite

ofsalesandtradingsolutionsthatincludedebt,foreignexchange,

interestrate,credit,equity,securitizationandcommodities.Wealso

offernewproductdevelopmentandoriginationservicesaswellas

riskmanagement(derivatives)adviceandservicestohedge

againstpricefluctuationsonavarietyofkeyinputs,including

interestratesandcommodities.Inaddition,weprovidefunding

andliquiditymanagementtoourclients.
StrengthsandValueDrivers
‰Aunifiedcoverageapproachandintegrateddistributionthatcreates
anexceptionalclientexperienceacrossourNorthAmericanplatform,

togetherwithacomplementaryinternationalpresenceinselect

industrysectors.
‰Innovativeideasandexpertisedeliveredthroughourtop-tier

coverageteam,dedicatedtounderstandingandmeetingourcore

clients’needs.
‰Top-rankedequityandfixedincomeresearch,salesandtradingcapa-

bilitieswithdeepexpertiseincoresectors.
‰Focusonfirstlineofdefenceriskmanagementcapabilitiesenabling
effectivedecision-makinginsupportofourstrategyandclient
experience.StrategyandKeyPriorities
BMOCapitalMarkets’visionistobetheleadinvestmentbankthat

enablesourclientstoachievetheirambitions.Weofferanintegrated

platformthatisdifferentiatedbyleadingideasandunifiedcoverage.
ContinuetoearnleadingmarketshareinCanadabydelivering
leadingideasthroughourtop-tiercoverageteam
2014Achievements
‰Named2014GreenwichQualityLeaderforCanadianFixedIncome

Research,CanadianEquitySales,CanadianEquityResearchandAna-

lystService,CanadianMergersandAcquisitionsandCanadianEquity

CapitalMarketsbyGreenwichAssociates.
‰Ranked#1(tied)asaGreenwich2014ShareLeaderinCanadian

InvestmentBankingMarketPenetrationand#3(tied)inCanadian

LargeCorporateCashManagementMarketPenetrationbyGreenwich

Associates.‰Ranked#2(tied)asa2014GreenwichShareLeaderforCanadian

EquityTradingShareand#3(tied)inCanadianEquityResearch/

AdvisoryPortfoliomanagerVoteSharebyGreenwichAssociates.
‰Ranked#2asa2014GreenwichShareLeaderinCanadianForeign

ExchangeMarketSharebyGreenwichAssociates.
‰NamedBestBankinCanadianDollarForeignExchangeby
FXweek
magazineforthefourthconsecutiveyear.
2015Focus
‰ContinuetoearnleadingmarketshareinCanadawithouttakingout-

sizedrisk.
LeverageourNorthAmericancapabilitiesinselectstrategicsectors

ininternationalmarketstoexpandourclientoffering
2014Achievements
‰NamedWorld’sBestMetals&MiningInvestmentBankforthefifth

consecutiveyearby
GlobalFinance
magazine.‰NamedBestTradeBankinCanadaforthefifthconsecutiveyearand

namedBestSupplyChainFinanceBankinNorthAmericaby
TradeFinancemagazine.‰Co-financialadvisorononeofthelargestminingdealsinrecentyears,

representingtheU.K.-basedseller.
2015Focus
‰ContinuetoserveglobalclientswithNorthAmericaninterestsand
extendourgloballeadershipinselectstrategicsectors.
DriveperformanceinourU.S.platformbyleveragingourexpanded

distributioncapabilitiesandfocusedresearchandcoveragein

strategicsectors
2014Achievements
‰RankedamongTop20globalinvestmentbanks,and13th-largest

investmentbankinNorthandSouthAmericabasedonfeesby

ThomsonReuters.
‰Increasedinvestmentbankingmarketshareby10%inourtargetU.S.

mid-capmarketyearoveryearusingDealogicdata.
‰Increasedequity-raisingleadmandatesby85%yearoveryear.
‰Grewmarketshareby38%yearoveryearinU.S.EquitySales

andTrading.
2015Focus
‰ContinuetodriveperformanceinourU.S.clientfranchisewitha
greaterweightingincorporatebankingtofurthersupportourclients

andthestabilityoffutureearnings.
54BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AReported Net Income201220132014
9851,0441,079($ millions)Revenue by Geography (%)201220132014
Revenue3,2493,3923,724($ millions)201420132012Canada and other countriesUnited States69%31%68%32%65%
35%Continuetoenhanceourriskmanagementandregulatory
compliancepracticestoberesponsivetoanevolvingregulatory

environment2014Achievements
‰Significantlyinvestedinournext-generationmarketriskinfrastructure
whichwillgeneratefuturebenefitsforourriskgovernancestructure.
‰Continuedtoinvestandproactivelypositionthebusinesstomeet

regulatoryrequirementsusingacross-borderapproachforboth

complianceandriskmanagement.
2015Focus
‰Continuetoenhanceourriskmanagement,regulatoryandcompliance
practices.FinancialReview
BMOCapitalMarketsnetincomeincreased$35millionor3%to
$1,079million.Theincreasereflectedgrowthinrevenueacrossboth

InvestmentandCorporateBankingandTradingProducts,withgood

contributionfromourU.S.businesses,partiallyoffsetbyanincreasein

expenses.Returnonequityof19.2%improvedby1.2%fromthe

prioryear.
Revenueincreased$332millionor10%to$3,724million,drivenby
highernetsecuritiesgainsandincreasesintradingrevenues,lending

revenuesandinvestmentbankingfees,particularlyinourU.S.platform.

ThestrongerU.S.dollarincreasedrevenueby$85million.
InvestmentandCorporateBankingrevenueincreased$203million
or16%,reflectinghighernetsecuritiesgainsandhigheractivitylevels,

particularlyinequityunderwriting,aswellasgrowthinlendingrevenue.
TradingProductsrevenueincreased$129millionor6%,reflecting
growthintradingrevenues,particularlyfromequitytradingandforeign

exchangetradingrelatedtomorefavourablemarketconditions,aswell

ashighersecuritiescommissionsandfees.
Ourbusinessescontinuetoexperienceverylowlevelsofcredit
losses.Therecoveryofcreditlosseswas$18millionin2014,compared

to$36millionin2013.
Non-interestexpenseincreased$269millionor13%to
$2,353million,resultingfromhigheremployee-relatedexpensesand

increasedsupportcosts,bothdrivenbyachangingbusinessandregu-

latoryenvironment,aswellasbystrongerperformance.ThestrongerU.S.

dollarincreasedexpensesby$63million.
NetincomefromU.S.operationsincreasedUS$17millionor8%to
US$233million.Revenueincreasedfromtheprioryear,drivenby
growthininvestmentbankingfees,highergainsonsecuritiesandan

increaseincommissionfees,partiallyoffsetbyadeclineintradingrev-

enues.Recoveriesofcreditlosseswerelowercomparedwith2013.

Non-interestexpenseincreasedfromtheprioryear,resultingfrom

higheremployee-relatedexpensesandincreasedsupportcosts,both

drivenbyachangingbusinessandregulatoryenvironment.
BMOCapitalMarkets
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
AsatorfortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
Netinterestincome(teb)
1,1791,2021,164
Non-interestrevenue
2,5452,1902,085
Totalrevenue(teb)
3,7243,3923,249
Provisionfor(recoveryof)creditlosses
(18)(36)6
Non-interestexpense
2,3532,0841,986
Incomebeforeincometaxes
1,3891,3441,257
Provisionforincometaxes(teb)
310300272
Reportednetincome
1,0791,044985
Amortizationofacquisition-related
intangibleassets
(1)121Adjustednetincome
1,0801,046986
KeyPerformanceMetricsandDrivers
TradingProductsrevenue
2,2542,1252,063
InvestmentandCorporateBankingrevenue
1,4701,2671,186
Netincomegrowth
(%)3.36.01.0
Revenuegrowth
(%)9.84.4(2.0)
Non-interestexpensegrowth
(%)12.95.04.7
Returnonequity
(%)19.218.020.9
Operatingleverage(teb)
(%)(3.1)(0.6)(6.7)
Efficiencyratio(teb)(%)
63.261.461.1
Netinterestmarginonaverageearning
assets(teb)(%)
0.530.590.60
Averagecommonequity
5,4225,5824,527
Averageearningassets
223,677202,960194,198
Averageassets
260,962247,609251,562
Averagecurrentloansandacceptances
30,12524,87423,441
Averagedeposits
133,839121,881103,836
Full-timeequivalentemployees
2,3762,2472,176
U.S.BusinessSelectFinancialData
(US$inmillions)
Totalrevenue(teb)
1,1901,0691,019
Non-interestexpense
900834829
Reportednetincome
233216139
Averageearningassets
81,06077,86072,233
Averageassets
90,57493,91994,391
Averagecurrentloansandacceptances
9,5598,5678,089
Averagedeposits
58,15160,78848,776
(1)Beforetaxamountsof$2millionin2014;$2millionin2013;and$1millionin2012are
includedinnon-interestexpense.
Averageassetsof$261.0billionincreased$13.4billionfromthe
prioryear.Higherlevelsofsecuritiesbalances,increasesinnetloans
andacceptancesrelatedtogrowthincorporatebanking,andhigher

cashbalanceswerepartlyoffsetbydecreasesinderivativefinancial

assets,primarilyduetodeclinesinthefairvalueofinterestrate

contracts.
BMOCapitalMarketsparticipatedin1,496newglobalissuesin
2014,comprisedof666corporatedebtdeals,520governmentdebt

dealsand310equitytransactions,raising$3,198billion.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
55MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
BusinessEnvironment,Outlook
andChallenges
BMOCapitalMarkets’performanceinfiscal2014reflectedourbalanced,
diversifiedandclient-focusedbusinessmodel,aswellasourdisciplined

approachtoriskmanagementinanenvironmentinfluencedbymarket

factorsthatcontributetovariabilityinresults.Therewasgrowthinour

InvestmentandCorporateBankingbusinesses,withparticularimprove-

mentinequityunderwritingactivity,drivenbyactivemarkets.Our

diversifiedbusinessmixhasenabledustogenerateearningsgrowthof

3%andimproveourROEfrom18.0%to19.2%in2014.
Lookingforwardtofiscal2015,weexpectsustained,moderately
strongereconomicgrowthinbothCanadaandtheUnitedStates.Falling

unemploymentratesandlowlevelsofinflationareexpectedtocon-

tinueintheUnitedStates,withmoderateincreasesininterestrates

expectedinbothCanadaandtheUnitedStates.Ourcapitalmarkets
outlookisinfluencedbytheperformanceoffinancialmarkets,business

confidenceandevolvingregulatoryrequirements.Despitesomeareasof

weaknessandconcerninfinancialmarkets,weanticipatecontinued

growthinrevenueandearningswithafocusondrivingfurther

performanceinourU.S.platform.
TheCanadianandU.S.economicenvironmentinfiscal2014andthe
outlookforfiscal2015arediscussedinmoredetailintheEconomic

DevelopmentsandOutlooksectiononpage30.
CautionThisBMOCapitalMarketssectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.PleaseseetheCaution

RegardingForward-LookingStatements.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
56BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ACorporateServices,includingTechnologyandOperations
CorporateServicesconsistsofCorporateUnitsandTechnologyand
Operations(T&O).CorporateUnitsprovideenterprise-wideexpertiseand

governancesupportinavarietyofareas,includingstrategicplanning,

riskmanagement,finance,legalandregulatorycompliance,marketing,

communicationsandhumanresources.T&Omanages,maintainsand

providesgovernanceoverinformationtechnology,operationsservices,

realestateandsourcingforBMOFinancialGroup.
ThecostsofprovidingtheseCorporateUnitsandT&Oservicesare
largelytransferredtothethreeclientoperatinggroups(P&C,Wealth

ManagementandBMOCapitalMarkets),andonlyrelativelyminor

amountsareretainedinCorporateServicesresults.Assuch,Corporate

Servicesadjustedoperatingresultslargelyreflecttheimpactofcertain

asset-liabilitymanagementactivities,theeliminationoftaxableequiv-

alentadjustments,theresultsfromcertainimpairedrealestatesecured

assetsandpurchasedloanaccountingimpacts.CorporateServices

reportedresultsin2013andprioryearsreflectedanumberofitemsand

activitiesthatwereexcludedfromBMO’sadjustedresultstohelpassess

BMO’sperformance.Theseadjustingitemswerenotreflectiveofcore

operatingresults.TheyareitemizedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressection

onpage32.
CorporateServicesfocusesonenterprise-wideprioritiesthat
improveservicequalityandefficiencytodeliveranexcellentcustomer

experience.Notableachievementsduringtheyearincluded:
‰Upgradestoourdigitalchannels:launchednewmobileapplication

providingtennewfunctionalitiessuchaseTransfers,billmanage-

ment,bookinganappointment,andtravelnotification;andnew

InvestorLinetabletapplication.
‰ImprovementstoourbranchandABMnetwork:modernizationofthe

retailbranchnetwork,whichincreasesourfootprintbyequipping

smallerbrancheswithupgradedtechnology,andimplementationof

chequeimagebasedcaptureatABMsanddepositsystemtechnology

intheUnitedStateswithrolloutinCanadatofollow.
‰RealizingrealestatesynergiesandimprovingourU.S.operations

technologycapabilitiesinchannels,products,functionsand

infrastructure.‰Continuingtoadvancethebank’sregulatorycapabilitiesby

implementingkeyfunctionalitiestodealwithachangingbusiness

andregulatoryenvironment.
FinancialReview
CorporateServicesreportedandadjustednetlossfortheyearwas

$193million,comparedwithareportednetlossof$72millionandan

adjustednetlossof$133millionayearago.Beginningin2014,the

impactfromthepurchasedperformingloanportfolioisincludedin

adjustedresults.Adjustedrecoveriesofcreditlosseswere$282million

lower,primarilydueto$158millionlowerrecoveriesonthepurchased

creditimpairedloanportfolioandtheimpactofprovisionsonthepur-

chasedperformingloanportfolioandtheimpairedrealestatesecured

loanportfolio.Adjustedrevenueimproved$89millionmainlyduetothe

inclusionofpurchasedperformingloanrevenueof$238million,partially

offsetbyahighergroupteboffsetof$132million.Adjustednon-

interestexpensewasup$15millionmainlyduetohighertechnology

investmentsandregulatory-relatedcosts.
CorporateServices,includingTechnologyandOperations
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
AsatorfortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
Netinterestincomebeforegroupteboffset
(62)408611
Groupteboffset
(476)(344)(266)
Netinterestincome(teb)
(538)64345
Non-interestrevenue
147147457
Totalrevenue(teb)
(391)211802
Recoveryofcreditlosses
(123)(175)(151)
Non-interestexpense
469800976
Lossbeforeincometaxes
(737)(414)(23)
Recoveryofincometaxes(teb)
(544)(342)(347)
Reportednetincome(loss)
(193)(72)324
Adjustedtotalrevenue(teb)
(391)(480)(261)
Adjustedrecoveryofcreditlosses
(123)(405)(445)
Adjustednon-interestexpense
469454385
Adjustednetincome(loss)
(193)(133)131
Full-timeequivalentemployees
13,93613,50213,885
U.S.BusinessSelectFinancialData
(US$inmillions)
Totalrevenue(teb)
(183)
315652
Recoveryofcreditlosses
(120)
(256)(168)
Non-interestexpense
146420537
Provisionfor(recoveryof)incometaxes(teb)
(103)
3829
Reportednetincome(loss)
(106)
113254
Adjustedtotalrevenue(teb)
(183)
(313)(127)
Adjustedrecoveryofcreditlosses
(117)
(398)(441)
Adjustednon-interestexpense
14616393
Adjustednetincome(loss)
(105)
(28)215
CorporateServicesProvisionforCreditLosses
(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatorfortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
Impairedrealestateloans
21(43)20
Interestonimpairedloans
264844
Purchasedcreditimpairedloans
(252)
(410)(509)
Purchasedperformingloans
(1)82––Recoveryofcreditlosses,adjustedbasis
(123)(405)(445)
Purchasedperformingloans
(1)–240291
Increase (decrease)incollectiveallowance
–(10)3
Recoveryofcreditlosses,reportedbasis
(123)(175)(151)
Averageloansandacceptances
4529721,847
Year-endloansandacceptances
3065261,314
(1)Effectivethefirstquarterof2014,CorporateServicesadjustedresultsincludecredit-related
itemsinrespectofthepurchasedperformingloanportfolio.Furtherdetailsareprovidedin

theNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
57MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
SummaryQuarterlyEarningsTrends
BMO’sresultsandperformancemeasuresforthepasteightquartersare
outlinedonpage59.
Periodically,certainbusinesslinesandunitswithinthebusiness
linesaretransferredbetweenclientoperatinggroupstomore

closelyalignBMO’sorganizationalstructureanditsstrategicpriorities.

Comparativefigureshavebeenrestatedtoconformtothecurrent

presentation.Overthepasttwoyears,wehaveremainedfocusedonexecuting
ourstrategicpriorities.Economicconditionshavegenerallybeenstable

toimproving.
SeasonalityBMO’squarterlyearnings,revenueandexpensearemodestlyaffected

byseasonalfactors.Sinceoursecondfiscalquarterhas89days(90ina

leapyear)andotherquartershave92days,second-quarterresultsare

lowerrelativetootherquartersbecausetherearefewercalendardays,

andthusfewerbusinessdays.ThemonthsofJuly(thirdquarter)and

August(fourthquarter)aretypicallycharacterizedbylowerlevelsof

capitalmarketsactivity,whichhasaneffectonresultsinWealth

ManagementandBMOCapitalMarkets.TheDecemberholidayseason

alsocontributestoaslowdowninsomeactivities.
CanadianP&C
CanadianP&C’sstrongmomentumhascontinuedsincethesecondhalf

of2013.Improvednetincomeinthelastsixquarterswasdrivenby

goodrevenuegrowththathasbeenatleast6%foreachofthelastfour

quarters.Revenuegrowthwasduetocontinuedloananddepositbal-

ancegrowthwithnetinterestmarginremainingstableoverthepast

fivequarters.Loangrowthhasbeenstrong,althoughabatinginrecent

quarters,anddepositgrowthhasbeenstrongoverthepastsixquarters.

Expenseshavegrownmoderatelyasaresultofcontinuedinvestmentin

thebusiness.Provisionsforcreditlosseshavedecreasedin2014com-

paredtotheprioryear,andhaveremainedrelativelyconsistentover

thepastfourquarters.
U.S.P&C
U.S.P&Chadstrongresultsinthefirstquarterof2013andresultswere

relativelystableinthesecondandthirdquartersduetocorecommercial

andindustrialloangrowthandlowerexpensescomparedtotheprior

year,offsettinglowermarginsandbalancesincertainportfolios.Results

inthefourthquarterof2013werenegativelyimpactedbyabovetrend

provisionsforcreditlosses.Asignificantincreaseinprovisionsforcredit

lossesinthefourthquarterof2013ledtolowerearnings.Resultsinthe

thirdquarterof2014reflectimprovedrevenuegrowth,primarilydriven

bystrongcommercialloangrowth,whichcontinuedinthefourth

quarterasrevenueremainedstableandprovisionsforcreditlosses

declined.Netinterestmarginhasdeclinedrelativeto2013,primarily

duetolowerloanspreadsduetocompetitiveloanpricing,changesin

mixincludingloansgrowingfasterthandepositsandadeclinein

depositspreadsgiventhelow-rateenvironment.
WealthManagement
WealthManagementoperatingresultshavegrownsignificantlysince

2013.Traditionalwealthoperatingresultsbenefitedfromtheacquired

F&Cbusinessinthesecondhalfof2014,aswellasgoodorganicgrowth

inclientassets.Thefourthquarteroftheprioryearincludedalarge

securitygain.Excludingthisgain,thetraditionalwealthbusinesses

recordeddouble-digitrevenuegrowthforthepastsixquarters.

Expenseshavegrownaswecontinuetomakeinvestmentsinoursales

forceforfuturerevenuegrowth.Thefourthquarterofthecurrentyear

includescostsrelatedtothesettlementofalegalmatter.Quarterly

resultsintheinsurancebusinesseshavebeensubjecttovariability,

resultingprimarilyfromchangesinlong-terminterestratesand

methodologyandactuarialassumptionschanges.Therewascontinued

growthinboththeunderlyingcreditorandlifeinsurancebusinesses.
BMOCapitalMarkets
Buildingonthemomentumof2012andimprovedresultsin2013,BMO

CapitalMarketscontinuedtoshowstrengthinthefirstthreequartersof

2014,benefitingfromfavourablemarketconditionsaswellasacon-

sistentanddiversifiedstrategy,withgoodrevenueperformanceacross

bothInvestmentandCorporateBankingandTradingProducts.Resultsin

thefourthquarterof2014wereimpactedbylowerclientactivitylevels.
ProvisionsforCreditLosses
BMO’sPCLmeasuredasapercentageofloansandacceptanceshasbeen

decliningsince2012withsomequarter-to-quartervariability–thisis

particularlynotablewhentherecoveriesfromthepurchasedcredit

impairedloanportfolioareexcluded.
CorporateServices
CorporateServicesquarterlynetincomecanvary,inlargepartdueto

theinclusionoftheadjustingitemsin2013,whicharelargelyrecorded

inCorporateServices,andrecoveriesofcreditlossesonthepurchased

creditimpairedportfolioinallperiods.Reducedrecoveriesinthefirst

quarterof2013,togetherwithlowerrevenueandincreasedexpenses,

loweredCorporateServicesresultsthatquarter.Theserecoveries

increasedinthelastthreequartersof2013,reducingthenetloss.

Adjustedquarterlynetincomedecreasedin2014,reflectingvariabilityin

therecoveriesandinCorporateServicesrevenue.
ForeignExchange
Fluctuationsinexchangeratesin2012and2013weresubdued.TheU.S.

dollarstrengthenedsignificantlyin2014,withtheexceptionofaslight

weakeninginthethirdquarterof2014.AstrongerU.S.dollarincreases

thetranslatedvalueofU.S.-dollar-denominatedrevenues,expenses,

provisionsfor(recoveriesof)creditlosses,incometaxesand

netincome.
ProvisionforIncomeTaxes
Theeffectiveincometaxratecanvary,asitdependsonthetimingof

resolutionofcertaintaxmatters,recoveriesofpriorperiods’income

taxesandtherelativeproportionofearningsattributabletothedifferent

jurisdictionsinwhichweoperate.
Caution
ThisSummaryQuarterlyEarningsTrendssectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.

PleaseseetheCautionRegardingForward-LookingStatements.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
58BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ASummarizedStatementofIncomeandQuarterlyFinancialMeasures
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
Q4-2014Q3-2014Q2-2014Q1-2014
Q4-2013Q3-2013Q2-2013Q1-2013
Netinterestincome
2,1782,1072,0632,113
2,1172,1832,1292,248
Non-interestrevenue
2,1622,1081,9782,009
2,0211,8171,7641,784
Totalrevenue
4,3404,2154,0414,122
4,1384,0003,8934,032
Provisionforcreditlosses–specific
(seebelow)
17013016299
18956174178
Provisionfor(recoveryof)creditlosses–collective
–––––20(30)–
Non-interestexpense
2,8872,7562,5942,684
2,5802,5262,5502,570
Incomebeforeprovisionforincometaxes
1,2831,3291,2851,339
1,3691,3981,1991,284
Provisionforincometaxes
213203209278
295275237248
Reportednetincome
(seebelow)
1,0701,1261,0761,061
1,0741,1239621,036
Adjustednetincome
(seebelow)
1,1111,1621,0971,083
1,0881,1229841,029
Provisionforcreditlosses–specific
CanadianP&C
133134133141
166125153128
U.S.P&C
43525019
96405532
PersonalandCommercialBanking
176186183160
262165208160
WealthManagement
(1)(3)2(1)
1(1)12
BMOCapitalMarkets
(7)(6)(4)(1)
(17)2(6)(15)
CorporateServices,includingT&O
2(47)(19)(59)
(57)(110)(29)31
BMOFinancialGroupprovisionforcreditlosses–specific
17013016299
18956174178
Operatinggroupreportednetincome
CanadianP&C
524526480484
458486421447
U.S.P&C
168159155166
102149151179
PersonalandCommercialBanking
692685635650
560635572626
WealthManagement
226190194175
311217140162
BMOCapitalMarkets
191306305277
217268261298
CorporateServices,includingT&O
(39)(55)(58)(41)
(14)3(11)(50)
BMOFinancialGroupnetincome
1,0701,1261,0761,061
1,0741,1239621,036
Operatinggroupadjustednetincome
CanadianP&C
526528482486
461489422450
U.S.P&C
180171167178
114161164192
PersonalandCommercialBanking
706699649664
575650586642
WealthManagement
253212200183
318224147168
BMOCapitalMarkets
191306306277
217269262298
CorporateServices,includingT&O
(39)(55)(58)(41)
(22)(21)(11)(79)
BMOFinancialGroupadjustednetincome
1,1111,1621,0971,083
1,0881,1229841,029
InformationperCommonShare
($)Dividendsdeclared
0.780.780.760.76
0.740.740.740.72
EarningsBasic1.571.681.611.58
1.601.671.411.51
Diluted1.561.671.601.58
1.601.661.401.51
Adjustedearnings
Basic1.631.731.641.62
1.621.661.441.50
Diluted1.631.731.631.61
1.621.661.441.50
Bookvalue
48.1846.6945.9445.60
43.2241.9640.8740.13
Marketprice
High85.7182.7976.6874.69
73.9065.9964.5064.70
Low76.4174.2867.0468.01
63.2158.6861.5156.74
Close81.7381.2775.5568.06
72.6263.8763.1962.99
FinancialMeasures
(%)Dividendyield
3.83.84.04.5
4.14.64.74.6
Returnonequity
13.114.414.314.2
14.815.514.214.9
Adjustedreturnonequity
13.714.914.614.5
15.015.514.614.8
Netinterestmarginonaverageearningassets
1.601.581.591.62
1.691.781.821.87
Adjustednetinterestmarginonaverageearningassets
1.601.581.591.62
1.601.651.671.70
Efficiencyratio
66.565.464.265.1
62.363.265.563.8
Efficiencyratio,excludingPBCAE
(1)62.258.259.459.9
59.761.860.261.4
Adjustedefficiencyratio
65.364.263.564.3
61.963.664.364.1
Adjustedefficiencyratio,excludingPBCAE
(1)61.157.258.859.2
59.362.258.861.6
Operatingleverage
(7.0)(3.7)1.9(2.1)
3.91.8(3.5)(2.5)
Adjustedoperatingleverage
(5.9)(1.1)1.2(0.3)
0.60.4(1.4)(0.7)
PCLasa%ofaveragenetloansandacceptances
0.230.180.220.14
0.270.110.220.28
Effectivetaxrate
16.615.316.220.8
21.619.719.819.3
Adjustedeffectivetaxrate
16.815.616.520.9
21.519.219.019.0
Canadian/U.S.dollaraverageexchangerate
($)1.1111.0811.1031.080
1.0421.0381.0180.995
Cashandsecurities-to-totalassets
30.233.032.132.3
31.431.130.330.8
CapitalRatios
(%)CommonEquityTier1Ratio
10.19.69.79.3
9.99.69.79.4
Tier1CapitalRatio
12.011.411.110.6
11.411.211.311.1
TotalCapitalRatio
14.313.313.012.4
13.713.513.713.4
(1)Thisratioiscalculatedexcludinginsurancepolicyholderbenefits,claimsandacquisitionexpenses(PBCAE).
IntheopinionofBankofMontrealmanagement,informationthatisderivedfromunauditedfinancialinformation,includinginformationasatandfortheinterimperiods,includesall

adjustmentsnecessaryforafairpresentationofsuchinformation.Allsuchadjustmentsareofanormalandrecurringnature.Financialratiosforinterimperiodsarestatedonanannualized

basis,whereappropriate,andtheratios,aswellasinterimoperatingresults,arenotnecessarilyindicativeofactualresultsforthefullfiscalyear.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
59MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
ReviewofFourthQuarter2014Performance
Reportednetincomeforthefourthquarterof2014was$1,070million,
down$4millionfromayearago.Adjustednetincomeforthefourth

quarterwas$1,111million,up$23millionor2%fromayearago.

Adjustedresultsforthequarterexcludetheamortizationofacquisition-

relatedintangibleassetsof$42million($32millionaftertax)and

acquisitionintegrationcostsof$11million($9millionaftertax);ora

totalimpactof$0.07pershare.Summaryincomestatementsanddata

forthequarterandcomparativequartersareoutlinedonpage59.

AdjustingitemsareincludedinCorporateServicesexcepttheamor-

tizationofacquisition-relatedintangibleassets,whichischargedtothe

operatinggroups.Acquisitionintegrationcostsin2014relatedtoF&C

arechargedtoWealthManagement.
AmountsintherestofthisReviewofFourthQuarter2014Perform-
ancesectionarestatedonanadjustedbasis.
NetincomegrowthwasdrivenbygoodresultsinCanadianP&C,
U.S.P&CandWealthManagement.CanadianP&Cresultswereup14%

fromayearago,drivenbyhigherrevenuefromhigherbalanceandfee

volumesacrossmostproductsandlowerprovisionsforcreditlosses,

partiallyoffsetbyhigherexpenses.WealthManagementcontinuedto

delivergoodresults,withgrowthof$56millionor28%,excludingthe

$121millionafter-taxsecuritygainintheprioryear.BMOCapitalMar-

ketsresultsdecreasedashigherrevenuewasmorethanoffsetby

higherexpensesandlowerloanrecoveries.U.S.P&Cnetincomewasup

onaU.S.dollarbasisduetolowerprovisionsforcreditlossesandhigher

revenuepartlyoffsetbyincreasedexpenses.CorporateServicesresults

werelowerduetolowerrecoveriesprimarilyonthepurchasedcredit

impairedloanportfolioandhigherexpenses,partiallyoffsetbyabove

trendrevenue.
Revenueincreased$330millionor8%to$4,340million.Excluding
theimpactofthestrongerU.S.dollar,revenueincreasedby$258million

or6%.CanadianP&Chadgoodrevenuegrowthduetostrongbalance

andfeevolumegrowthacrossmostproducts.WealthManagement

revenueincreased,excludingthe$191millionsecuritygainintheprior

year,duetotheimpactfromtheacquiredF&Cbusiness,higherfee-

basedrevenuefromstronggrowthinclientassetsandhigherinsurance

revenue.BMOCapitalMarketsrevenueincreased2%yearoveryear
withsolidgrowthfromInvestmentandCorporateBanking,partlyoffset

bylowerrevenuesinTradingProducts,inpartduetotheintroductionof

afundingvaluationadjustmentwhichreducedrevenueby$39million.

U.S.P&CrevenueincreasedonaU.S.dollarbasis,duetostrong

commercialloananddepositgrowth,partiallyoffsetbylowernet

interestmargin.CorporateServicesrevenueimprovedprimarilydueto

highernetinterestincomeandcredit-relatedrevenueonthepurchased

performingloanportfolio.
Netinterestincomeincreased$178millionor9%to$2,178million,
principallyduetovolumegrowth,theimpactofthestrongerU.S.dollar

andrevenuefromthepurchasedperformingloanportfolio.BMO’s

overallnetinterestmarginwasunchangedat1.60%.Averageearning

assetsincreased$43.8billionor9%to$540.0billion,includinga$13.6

billionincreaseasaresultofthestrongerU.S.dollar.
Non-interestrevenueincreased$152millionor8%to$2,162mil-
lion,withsignificantincreasesinmutualfundrevenuesandinvestment

managementandcustodialfeesasaresultoftheacquisitionofF&C,and

increasesinallothertypesofnon-interestrevenue,withtheexception

ofsecuritiesgainsandother.
Non-interestexpenseincreased$349millionor14%to$2,834
million.ExcludingtheimpactofthestrongerU.S.dollar,non-interest

expenseincreasedby$286millionor12%,primarilyduetoincreased

technologyandsupportcostsrelatedtoachangingbusinessandregu-

latoryenvironment,theimpactoftheF&Cacquisition,higheremployee-

relatedexpensesandcostsrelatedtothesettlementofalegalmatter.
Theprovisionforcreditlossesof$170millionincreasedby$30
millionfromtheprioryear,duetolowerrecoveriesprimarilyonthe

purchasedcreditimpairedloanportfolio.Therewasnonetchangeto

thecollectiveallowanceinthequarter.
Theprovisionforincometaxesof$225milliondecreased$72mil-
lionfromayearago.Theeffectivetaxratewas16.8%inthecurrent

quarter,comparedwith21.5%ayearagoprimarilyduetoalower

proportionofincomefromhighertax-ratejurisdictions.
Adjustedresultsinthistablearenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
60BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&A2013FinancialPerformanceReview
TheprecedingdiscussionsintheMD&Afocusedonourperformancein
2014.Thissectionsummarizesourperformanceinfiscal2013relative

tofiscal2012.Asnotedonpage26,certainprioryeardatahasbeen

reclassifiedtoconformtothepresentationin2014,includingrestate-

mentsarisingfromtransfersbetweenoperatinggroupsandrestate-

mentsarisingfromtheadoptionofseveralnewandamendedIFRS

reportingandaccountingstandards.Furtherinformationonrestatements

isprovidedonpage43.
NetIncome
Netincomeincreased$39millionor1%to$4,195millioninfiscal2013

andearningspershare(EPS)increased$0.07or1%to$6.17.Adjusted

netincomeincreased$164millionor4%to$4,223millionandadjusted

EPSincreased$0.26or4%to$6.21,reflectingsignificantadjustednet

incomegrowthinWealthManagementandgoodgrowthinCanadian

P&CandBMOCapitalMarkets,withU.S.P&Crelativelyunchangedanda

declineinCorporateServices.
AdjustingitemsaredetailedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectionon
page32.
ReturnonEquity
Returnonequityandadjustedreturnonequitywere14.9%and15.0%,

respectively,comparedwith15.9%and15.5%,respectively,in2012.

Therewasanincreaseof$64millioninearnings($189millionin

adjustedearnings)availabletocommonshareholders.Averagecommon

shareholders’equityincreasedbyalmost$2.1billionfrom2012,

primarilyduetointernallygeneratedcapital.
RevenueRevenueincreased$134millionor1%in2013to$16,063million.

Adjustedrevenueincreased$506millionor3%to$15,372million.

ExcludingtheimpactofthestrongerU.S.dollar,adjustedrevenue

increased$419millionor3%,duetogrowthinWealthManagement,

BMOCapitalMarketsandCanadianP&C.
ProvisionsforCreditLosses
BMOrecordedaprovisionforcreditlossesof$587millionin2013,

comparedwith$764millionin2012.Theadjustedprovisionforcredit

losseswas$357millionin2013,comparedwith$470millionin2012.

Theimprovementreflectsdecreasesinprovisionsinallofouroperating

groups,offsetinpartbylowerrecoveriesonthepurchasedcredit

impairedloanportfolio.
Non-InterestExpense
Non-interestexpenseincreased$91millionor1%to$10,226millionin

2013.Adjustednon-interestexpenseincreased$345millionor4%to

$9,755million.ExcludingtheimpactofthestrongerU.S.dollar,adjusted

non-interestexpenseincreasedbyonly3%.
ProvisionforIncomeTaxes
Theprovisionforincometaxeswas$1,055millionin2013,compared

with$874millionin2012.Theadjustedprovisionforincometaxesin

2013was$1,037million,comparedwith$927millionin2012.The

effectivetaxratein2013was20.1%,comparedwith17.4%in2012.

Theadjustedeffectivetaxratein2013was19.7%,comparedwith

18.6%in2012.Thehigheradjustedeffectivetaxratein2013was

mainlyattributabletolowerrecoveriesofprioryears’incometaxes.
CanadianP&C
NetincomeinCanadianP&Cin2013rose$63millionor4%to

$1,812million.Revenueincreased$122millionto$6,106million,due

togrowthinbalancesandfeesacrossmostproducts,partiallyoffsetby

lowernetinterestmargin.Non-interestexpenseincreased$83million

or3%to$3,126million,primarilyduetocontinuedinvestmentinthe

business,includingourdistributionnetwork,netofstrongexpense

management.U.S.P&C
NetincomeinU.S.P&Cincreased$10millionor2%in2013to

$581million,whileadjustednetincomeof$631millionwasrelatively

unchanged.OnaU.S.dollarbasis,netincomeof$570millionwasrela-

tivelyunchanged,whileadjustednetincomedecreased$13millionor

2%to$619million.Revenuedecreased$88millionor3%to

$2,906million,anddecreased$145millionor5%onaU.S.dollarbasis,

asthebenefitsofstronggrowthincorecommercialandindustrialloans

anddepositsandhighercommerciallendingfeesweremorethanoffset

bytheeffectsoflowernetinterestmargin,reductionsincertainportfo-

liosandlowerdepositanddebitcardfees.Adjustednon-interest

expensedecreased$28millionor2%to$1,793million,anddecreased

$64millionor4%to$1,752milliononaU.S.dollarbasis,primarilyasa

resultofsynergy-relatedsavingsandcostreductionsresultingfrom

productivityinitiatives,partiallyoffsetbytheeffectsofselective

investmentsinthebusinessandhigherregulatory-relatedcosts.
WealthManagement
NetincomeinWealthManagementwas$830million,up$303million

or57%from2012.Adjustednetincomewas$857million,up

$309millionor56%.Adjustednetincomeinourtraditionalwealth

businesseswas$596million,up$206millionor53%.Thesignificant

increasewasdrivenbyasecuritygainof$121millionaftertaxand

stronggrowthof22%inourotherwealthbusinesses.Adjustednet

incomeininsurancewas$261million,up$103millionor65%.Revenue

increased$548millionor19%to$3,448millionin2013.Revenueinour

traditionalwealthbusinessesincreased16%,reflectingstrongperform-

ancedrivenbygrowthinclientassets,a$191millionsecuritygainand

thebenefitofrecentacquisitions.Insurancerevenueincreased49%as

theprioryearresultswereimpactedbyunfavourablemovementsin

long-terminterestrates,andtherewascontinuedgrowthinboththe

underlyingcreditorandlifeinsurancebusinesses.Non-interestexpense

increased$132millionor6%to$2,347million.Adjustednon-interest

expenseincreased$124millionor6%to$2,311million,duetogrowth

inrevenue-basedcostsandthecostsofrecentacquisitions,partlyoffset

bythebenefitsofacontinuedfocusonproductivity.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
61MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
BMOCapitalMarkets
NetincomeinBMOCapitalMarketsincreased$59millionor6%to
$1,044millionin2013.Theincreasereflectedgrowthinrevenuesand

higherrecoveriesofcreditlosses,partiallyoffsetbyanincreasein

expenses.Revenueincreased$143millionor4%to$3,392million,

drivenbyincreasesintradingrevenuesandinvestmentbankingfees,

particularlyinourU.S.platform.InvestmentandCorporateBanking

revenueincreased$81million,reflectinghigheractivitylevelsaswellas

growthincorporatebankinglevels.TradingProductsrevenueincreased

$62million,reflectinggrowthintradingrevenuesrelatedtoimproved

marketconditions,partlyoffsetbyadecreaseinrevenuesfrominterest-

rate-sensitivebusinessesandlowers
ecuritiescommissions.Non-interest
expenseincreased$98millionor5%to$2,084million,resultingfrom

strongerrevenueperformanceandincreasedtechnologyandsupport

costsrelatedtoachangingbusinessandregulatoryenvironment.
CorporateServices
CorporateServicesnetlossfortheyearwas$72million,compared

withnetincomeof$324millionin2012.Theadjustednetlosswas

$133million,comparedwithadjustednetincomeof$131millionin

2012.Adjustedrevenuedecreased$219million,primarilyduetoa

groupteboffsetthatwas$78millionhigherthantheprioryearanda

declineintreasury-relateditems.Adjustednon-interestexpense

increased$69million,primarilyduetoincreasesinregulatory-related

andtechnologycosts.Adjustedrecoveriesofcreditlosseswere

$40millionlower,primarilyduetolowerrecoveriesonthepurchased

creditimpairedloanportfolio,offsetinpartbyrecoveriesonthe

impairedrealestateloanportfolioin2013,comparedtoprovisions

in2012.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
FinancialConditionReview
SummaryBalanceSheet
(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
AssetsCashandinterestbearingdepositswithbanks
34,49632,60726,25625,65620,554
Securities143,319135,800129,441122,115123,399
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreements
53,55539,79947,01137,97028,102
Netloansandacceptances
303,038279,294253,846238,885176,643
Otherassets
54,25149,54468,13075,94962,942
Totalassets
588,659537,044524,684500,575411,640
LiabilitiesandShareholders’Equity

Deposits393,088368,369325,235302,373249,251
Otherliabilities
155,254133,500165,813164,197135,933
Subordinateddebt
4,9133,9964,0935,3483,776
Capitaltrustsecurities
–––821800
Shareholders’equity
34,31330,10728,10826,35321,880
Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
(1)1,0911,0721,4351,483–
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders’equity
588,659537,044524,684500,575411,640
(1)IncludedinotherliabilitiesunderCGAAPin2010.
OverviewTotalassetsincreased$51.6billionfromtheprioryearto$588.7billion,
includinga$17.1billionincreaseduetothestrongerU.S.dollar.The

increasewascomprisedofnetloansandacceptancesof$23.7billion,

securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreementsof$13.8

billion,securitiesof$7.5billion,cashandinterestbearingdepositswith

banksof$1.9billion,andotherassetsof$4.7billion.
Liabilitiesandshareholders’equityincreased$51.6billion,including
a$17.1billionincreaseasaresultofthestrongerU.S.dollar.The

increasewascomprisedofdepositsof$24.7billion,otherliabilitiesof

$21.8billion,shareholders’equityof$4.2billionandsubordinateddebt

of$0.9billion.
CashandInterestBearingDepositswithBanks
Cashandinterestbearingdepositswithbanksincreased$1.9billionto

$34.5billionin2014,primarilyreflectinganincreaseinbalancesheld

withtheFederalReserve.
Securities(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
Trading85,02275,15970,10969,92571,710
Available-for-sale46,96653,71057,34051,42650,543
Held-to-maturity10,3446,032875––
Other9878991,1177641,146
143,319
135,800129,441122,115123,399
Securitiesincreased$7.5billionto$143.3billion,primarilyreflecting
increasesintradingsecuritiesandheld-to-maturitysecurities,partially

offsetbyadecreaseinavailable-for-salesecurities.Theincreasein

tradingsecuritiesisprimarilyrelatedtoclient-drivenactivitiesinBMO

CapitalMarkets.Theincreaseinheld-to-maturitysecuritiesreflects

higherlevelsofsupplementalliquidassetsheldtosupportcontingent

liabilityrequirements.Supplementalliquidassetsheldinavailable-for-

salesecuritieshavedeclinedfromtheprioryear.
62BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ASecuritiesBorrowedorPurchasedUnderResaleAgreements
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreementsincreased
$13.8billionto$53.6billion,inlinewiththeincreaseinsecuritieslent

orsoldunderrepurchaseagreements.Bothincreasesweredrivenby

clientactivities.
LoansandAcceptances
(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
Residentialmortgages
101,01396,39284,21181,07548,715
Consumerinstalmentand
otherpersonal
64,14363,64061,43659,44551,159
Creditcards
7,9727,8707,8148,0383,308
Businessesand
governments120,766104,58594,07284,88368,338
Customers’liabilityunder
acceptances10,8788,4728,0197,2277,001
Grossloansand
acceptances304,772280,959255,552240,668178,521
Allowanceforcredit
losses(1,734)(1,665)(1,706)(1,783)(1,878)
Netloansandacceptances
303,038279,294253,846238,885176,643
Netloansandacceptancesincreased$23.7billionto$303.0billion,
includinga$7.1billionincreaseduetothestrongerU.S.dollar.The

increasewasprimarilyduetoanincreaseinloanstobusinessesand

governmentsacrossmostoperatinggroupsandanincreaseinresi-

dentialmortgagesprimarilyinCanadianP&C.
Table7onpage112providesacomparativesummaryofloansby
geographiclocationandproduct.Table9onpage113providesacom-

parativesummaryofnetloansinCanadabyprovinceandindustry.Loan

qualityisdiscussedonpages86and87andfurtherdetailsonloansare

providedinNotes4,5and8tothefinancialstatements,startingon

page136.
OtherAssets
Otherassetsincreased$4.7billionto$54.3billion,primarilyreflectinga

$2.4billionincreaseinderivativefinancialinstrumentassets,largelydue

toanincreaseinthefairvalueofforeignexchangecontracts,partially

offsetbyadecreaseinthefairvalueofinterestratecontracts.The

balanceofotherassets,whichincludespremisesandequipment,

goodwillandintangibleassets,currentanddeferredtaxassets,accounts

receivableandprepaidexpenses,increased$2.3billion,primarilydueto

increasesingoodwillandintangibleassetsassociatedwiththeacquis-

itionofF&C.DerivativeinstrumentsaredetailedinNote10onpage146

ofthefinancialstatements.
Deposits(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
Banks18,24320,59118,10220,87719,435
Businessesand
governments239,139222,346188,103159,209130,773
Individuals135,706125,432119,030122,28799,043
393,088368,369325,235302,373249,251
Depositsincreased$24.7billionto$393.1billion,includinganincrease
of$14.3billionduetothestrongerU.S.dollar.Theincreasewaslargely

drivenbya$10.3billionincreaseindepositsbyindividuals,primarilyin

Canada,anda$16.8billionincreaseindepositsbybusinessesand

governments,reflectinghigherlevelsofwholesaleandcustomer

deposits;whiledepositsbybanksdecreased$2.3billion.Furtherdetails

onthecompositionofdepositsareprovidedinNote15onpage156of

thefinancialstatementsandintheLiquidityandFundingRisksectionon

page95.
OtherLiabilities
Otherliabilitiesincreased$21.8billionto$155.3billion,primarilydriven

byanincreaseof$10.8billioninsecuritieslentorsoldunderrepurchase

agreementsrelatedtoclient-drivenactivities,anincreaseof$4.9billion

insecuritiessoldbutnotyetpurchased,anincreaseof$2.4billionin

acceptancesandanincreaseof$1.7billioninderivatives.Furtherdetails

onthecompositionofotherliabilitiesareprovidedinNote16on

page157ofthefinancialstatements.
SubordinatedDebt
Subordinateddebtincreased$0.9billion.Furtherdetailsonthecomposi-

tionofsubordinateddebtareprovidedinNote17onpage158ofthe

financialstatements.
Shareholders’Equity
(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
Sharecapital
Preferredshares
3,0402,2652,4652,8612,571
Commonshares
12,35712,00311,95711,3326,927
Contributedsurplus
30431521311392
Retainedearnings
17,23715,08713,45611,38112,848
Accumulatedother
comprehensiveincome(loss)
1,37543717666(558)
34,31330,10728,10826,35321,880
Shareholders’equityincreased$4.2billionto$34.3billion,reflecting
growthinretainedearnings,accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome

andsharecapital.Thesharecapitalincreaseisdrivenbytheissuanceof

preferredshares,aswellastheissuanceofcommonsharesunderthe

ShareholderDividendReinvestmentandSharePurchasePlan(DRIP)and

StockOptionPlan.BMO’sDRIPisdescribedintheEnterprise-WideCapital

Managementsectionthatfollows.OurConsolidatedStatementof

ChangesinEquityonpage126providesasummaryofitemsthat

increaseorreduceshareholders’equity,whileNote20onpage161of

thefinancialstatementsprovidesdetailsonthecomponentsofand

changesinsharecapital.Detailsofourenterprise-widecapital

managementpracticesandstrategiescanbefoundonthefollowing

page.All2010dataisbasedonCGAAPinthissection.2011hasnotbeenrestatedtoreflectthenewIFRS
standardsadoptedin2014.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
63MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
Enterprise-WideCapitalManagement
BMO’sCommonEquityTier1Ratioof10.1%isstrongandexceeds
regulatoryrequirements.
ObjectiveBMOiscommittedtoadisciplinedapproachtocapitalmanagementthat

balancestheinterestsandrequirementsofshareholders,regulators,

depositorsandratingagencies.Ourobjectiveistomaintainastrong

capitalpositioninacost-effectivestructurethat:
‰isappropriategivenourtargetregulatorycapitalratiosandinternal

assessmentofrequiredeconomiccapital;
‰isconsistentwithourtargetcreditratings;
‰underpinsouroperatinggroups’businessstrategies;and
‰supportsdepositor,investorandregulatorconfidence,whilebuilding

long-termshareholdervalue.
CapitalManagementFramework
TheprinciplesandkeyelementsofBMO’scapitalmanagementframe-

workareoutlinedinourcapitalmanagementcorporatepolicyandinour

annualcapitalplan,whichincludestheresultsofourInternalCapital

AdequacyAssessmentProcess(ICAAP).
ICAAPisanintegratedprocessthatevaluatescapitaladequacyon
botharegulatoryandaneconomiccapitalbasis,andisusedtoestablish

capitaltargetsandcapitalstrategiesthattakeintoconsiderationthe

strategicdirectionandriskappetiteoftheenterprise.Thecapitalplanis

developedconsideringourICAAPandinconjunctionwithourannual

businessplan,promotingalignmentbetweenourbusinessandrisk

strategies,regulatoryandeconomiccapitalrequirementsandtheavail-

abilityofcapital.Regulatoryandeconomiccapitaladequacyisassessed

bycomparingcapitalsupply(theamountofcapitalavailabletosupport

risks)tocapitaldemand(thecapitalrequiredtosupporttherisksarising

fromourbusinessactivities).Enterprise-widestresstestingandscenario

analysisarealsousedtoassesstheimpactofvariousstressconditions

onBMO’sriskprofileandcapitalrequirements.Theframeworkseeksto

ensurethatweareadequatelycapitalizedgiventheriskswetake,and

supportsthedeterminationoflimits,goalsandperformancemeasures

thatareusedtomanagebalancesheetpositions,risklevelsandcapital

requirementsatboththeconsolidatedentityandlineofbusinesslevels.

Assessmentsofactualandforecastcapitaladequacyarecomparedto

thecapitalplanthroughouttheyear,andthecapitalplanisupdatedas

required,basedonchangesinourbusinessactivities,riskprofileor

operatingenvironment.
BMOusesacombinationofregulatoryandeconomiccapitalto
evaluatebusinessperformanceandconsiderscapitalimplicationsinits

strategic,tacticalandtransactionaldecision-making.Byallocatingour

capitaltooperatinggroupsandmeasuringtheirperformanceinrelation

tothecapitalnecessarytosupporttherisksintheirbusiness,weseekto

optimizeourrisk-adjustedreturntoshareholders,whilemaintaininga

well-capitalizedposition.Thisapproachaimstoprotectourstakeholders

fromtherisksinherentinourvariousbusinesses,whilestillallowingthe

flexibilitytodeployresourcestosupportthestrategicgrowthactivities

ofouroperatinggroups.Capitalinexcessofwhatisrequiredtosupport

ourlineofbusinessactivitiesisheldinCorporateServices.
Capital Demand
Capital required
to support the

risks underlying

our business

activities
Capital Supply
Capital available
to support risks
Management
ActionsCapital adequacy
assessment of capital
demand and supply
Forfurtherdiscussionoftherisksthatarisefromourbusinessactivities,refertotheEnterprise-Wide
RiskManagementsectiononpage77.
GovernanceTheBoardofDirectors,eitherdirectlyorinconjunctionwithitsRisk
ReviewCommittee,providesultimateoversightandapprovalofcapital

management,includingourcapitalmanagementcorporatepolicy

framework,capitalplanandcapitaladequacyassessments.Theboard

regularlyreviewsBMO’scapitalposition,keycapitalmanagementactiv-

itiesand,withtheRiskReviewCommittee,theICAAP-determined

capitaladequacyassessmentresults.TheBalanceSheetandCapital

ManagementCommitteeprovidesseniormanagementoversight,

includingthereviewanddiscussionofsignificantcapitalmanagement

policies,issuesandactivitiesand,alongwiththeRiskManagement

Committee,thecapitalrequiredtosupporttheexecutionofour

enterprise-widestrategy.FinanceandRiskManagementareresponsible

forthedesignandimplementationofthecorporatepoliciesandframe-

workrelatedtocapital,riskmanagementandtheICAAP.
RegulatoryCapital
Commonequityisthemostpermanentformofcapital.CommonEquity

Tier1(CET1)capitaliscomprisedofcommonshareholders’equityless

deductionsforgoodwill,intangibleassets,definedbenefitpension

assets,certaindeferredtaxassetsandcertainotheritems.Additional

Tier1capitalprimarilyconsistsofpreferredsharesandinnovativehybrid

instruments,lesscertainregulatorydeductions.Tier1capitaliscom-

prisedofCET1andAdditionalTier1capital.Tier2capitalisprimarily

comprisedofsubordinateddebenturesandaportionofthecollective

andindividualallowanceforcreditlosses,lesscertainregulatory

deductions.TotalcapitalincludesTier1andTier2capital.
Sincethefirstquarterof2013,regulatorycapitalrequirementsfor
BMOhavebeendeterminedonaBaselIIIbasis.In2014,theminimum

BaselIIIcapitalratiosproposedbytheBaselCommitteeonBanking

Supervision(BCBS)werea4%CET1Ratio,5.5%Tier1CapitalRatioand

8%TotalCapitalRatio.Theseratiosarecalculatedusingafive-year

transitionalphase-inofregulatoryadjustmentsandanine-yeartransi-

tionalphase-outofinstrumentsthatnolongerqualifyasregulatory

capitalundertheBaselIIIrules.However,guidanceissuedbytheOffice

oftheSuperintendentofFinancialInstitutionsCanada(OSFI)required

Canadiandeposit-takinginstitutionstomeetthe2019BaselIIIcapital

requirementsin2013,otherthanthephase-outofnon-qualifyingcapital

instruments,andOSFIhasexpectedthemtoattainatargetBaselIIICET1

Ratioofatleast7%(4.5%minimumplus2.5%CapitalConservation

Buffer)sinceJanuary31,2013(alsoreferredtoasthe“all-in”

requirements).64BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AInMarch2013,OSFIissuedguidancedesignatingthesixlargest
Canadianbanks,includingBMO,asdomesticsystemicallyimportant
banks(D-SIBs).TheD-SIBsaresubjecttocontinuedenhancedsuper-

visionanddisclosure.CommencingonJanuary1,2016,theD-SIBswill

berequiredtoholdanadditional1%CommonEquitySurchargeinaddi-

tiontothe2.5%CapitalConservationBuffer.NoCanadianbanksare

currentlyconsideredtobegloballysystemicallyimportant.
ThefullyimplementedBaselIIIrequirementsandtheOSFI“all-in”
BaselIIIrequirementsaresummarizedinthefollowingtable.
RegulatoryCapitalRequirements
(%ofRisk-WeightedAssets)
CommonEquityTier1
Ratio(1)
Tier1
CapitalRatioTotalCapitalRatioLeverageRatio(3)
BaselIII–Stated2019minimum
requirements4.56.08.03.0
Plus:CapitalConservationBuffer
(2)(effectiveJanuary1,2013)
2.52.52.5
naPlus:D-SIBCommonEquitySurcharge
(effectiveJanuary1,2016)1.01.01.0
naOSFIBaselIIIeffectiverequirements
(4)8.09.511.53.0
(1)Theminimum4.5%CET1Ratiorequirementisaugmentedbythe2.5%CapitalConservation
Bufferthatcanabsorblossesduringperiodsofstress.TheCapitalConservationBufferfor
BMOwillbeaugmentedin2016withtheadditionofthe1%CommonEquitySurchargefor

D-SIBs.Ifabank’scapitalratiosfallwithintherangeofthiscombinedbuffer,restrictionson

discretionarydistributionsofearnings(suchasdividends,equityrepurchasesand

discretionarycompensation)wouldensue,withthedegreeofsuchrestrictionsvarying

accordingtothepositionofthebank’sratioswithinthebufferrange.
(2)TheCapitalConservationBufferdoesnotincludethecounter-cyclicalcapitalbufferofupto
2.5%ofCET1,whichmayberequiredonanationalbasisbysupervisorsiftheyperceive

creditgrowthresultinginsystemicrisk.Ifimposed,thisadditionalbufferwouldbe

effectivelycombinedwiththeCapitalConservationBuffer.
(3)A3%minimumLeverageRatiohasbeenestablishedbytheBCBS.Itwillbesubjectto
monitoringandanalysisduringafour-yearparallelruntestperiod,whichbeganon

January1,2013.Dependingupontheresultsoftheparallelruntesting,therecouldbe

subsequentadjustments,whicharetargetedtobefinalizedin2017,withthefinalLeverage

RatiorequirementeffectiveJanuary1,2018.InOctober2014,OFSIannouncedthat,inthe

firstquarteroffiscal2015,itscurrentleveragemeasure,theAssets-to-CapitalMultiple

(ACM),willbediscontinuedandreplacedbytheLeverageRatio,andhasestablisheda3%

minimumBaselIIILeverageRatiorequirement.
(4)OSFI’sBaselIII“effectiverequirements”arethecapitalrequirementssystemicallyimportant
Canadianbanksmustmeetin2016toavoidbeingsubjecttorestrictionsondiscretionary

distributionsofearnings.
na–notapplicable
OSFI’sBaselIIIcapitalrulesalsorequiretheimplementationof
BCBSguidanceonnon-viabilitycontingentcapital(NVCC).Theguidance

stipulatesthatinordertoqualifyasregulatorycapital,non-common

sharecapitalinstrumentsmustbeautomaticallyconvertibleinto

commonequityintheeventthatOSFIannouncesthatabankis

non-viable,thatconversionisnecessarytoprotecttheinterestsofthe

bank’sdepositorsandcreditorsandthatconversionisreasonablylikely

torestorethebanktoviability.Allnon-commoninstrumentsissued

afterDecember31,2012,arerequiredtomeettheseNVCCrequirements

toqualifyasregulatorycapital.
UnderOSFI’sBaselIIIrules,non-commonsharecapitalinstruments
thatdonotmeetBaselIIIrequirements,includingNVCCrequirements,are

subjecttograndfatheringprovisionsrequiringthattheybephasedout

overanine-yearperiodthatbeganonJanuary1,2013,atwhichpoint

theirrecognitionasregulatorycapitalwascappedat90%oftheirtotal

valueasatthatdate.Thiscapreducesbyafurther10%eachsubsequent

yearuntil2022.BMO’spreferredshares,innovativeTier1capital(BMO

CapitalTrustSecuritiesandBMOTier1Notes)andTier2subordinated

debtinstrumentsoutstandingonJanuary1,2013,willnotultimately

qualifyasregulatorycapitalunderBaselIIIandareaccordinglybeing

phasedout.OSFI’sguidancealsooutlinestherequirementsfor

redemptionoftheseregulatorycapitalinstrumentsduetoaregulatory

capitalevent.BMOcurrentlydoesnotexpecttoredeemanyoutstanding

regulatorycapitalinstrumentsduetoaregulatorycapitalevent.
UnderBaselIII,banksmayselectfromalternativeapproachesto
determinetheirminimumregulatorycapitalrequirementstosupportthe
credit,marketandoperationalriskstheyundertake.Weprimarilyuse

theAdvancedInternalRatingsBased(AIRB)Approachtodetermine

creditrisk-weightedassets(RWA)inourportfolio.CreditRWAarising

fromcertainU.S.portfoliosaredeterminedusingtheStandardized

Approach.TheAIRBApproachisthemostadvancedoftheapproaches

fordeterminingcreditriskcapitalrequirements.Itutilizessophisticated

techniquestomeasureRWAattheexposurelevelbasedonsoundrisk

managementprinciples,includingconsiderationofestimatesofthe

probabilityofdefault,thelikelylossgivendefaultandexposureat

default,termtomaturityandthetypeofBaselAssetClassexposure.

Theseriskparametersaredeterminedusinghistoricalportfoliodata

supplementedbybenchmarking,andareupdatedperiodically.Vali-

dationproceduresrelatedtotheseparametersareinplaceandare

enhancedperiodicallyinordertoappropriatelyquantifyanddiffer-

entiateriskssotheyreflectchangesineconomicandcreditconditions.
BMO’smarketriskRWAareprimarilydeterminedusingtheInternal
ModelsApproach,buttheStandardizedApproachisusedforsome

exposures.Commencinginthethirdquarterof2014,operationalriskcapital
requirementshavebeendeterminedusingtheAdvancedMeasurement

Approachandarebasedonourinternaloperationalriskmeasurement

system,usingquantitativeandqualitativecriteria.Priortothethird

quarterof2014,BMO’soperationalriskRWAweredeterminedusingthe

StandardizedApproachandwerebasedonthesizeandtypeofourlines

ofbusiness.
InAugust2013,OSFIadvisedbanksthatitwouldbeginphasingin
theCreditValuationAdjustment(CVA)riskcapitalchargeforCanadian

banksinthefirstquarterof2014.TheCVAriskcapitalchargeapplicable

toCET1was57%ofthefullyimplementedchargeduring2014,andwill

increaseto64%in2015.Thiswillincreaseeachyearuntilitreaches

100%by2019.
InJanuary2014,BCBSreleaseditsBaselIIILeverageRatioframe-
workandreportingrequirements.InOctober2014,OSFIissueditsfinal

LeverageRequirementsGuidelineandannouncedthat,inthefirst

quarteroffiscal2015,itscurrentleveragemeasure,theAssets-to-

CapitalMultiple(ACM),willbediscontinuedandreplacedbythe

LeverageRatio,andhasestablisheda3%minimumBaselIIILeverage

Ratiorequirement.
Anumberofotherpotentialregulatorychangesarestillunder
discussionwithregulators.OSFImayimplementastand-aloneor“solo”

capitalframeworkthatwouldassessabank’sstand-alonecapital

adequacybyreducingsuchbank’scapitalbytheportionofitsinvest-

mentsinsubsidiariesthatarenotconsideredavailabletoprotectthe

parentbankdepositorsandseniorcreditorsunderexceptionalcircum-

stances.Thesechangescouldaffecttheamountofcapitalthatwehold

orarerequiredtohold,ortheattractivenessofcertaininvestmentsin

subsidiaries.Inanefforttoincreasethecomparabilityofcapitalrequirements,
theBCBSisconsideringvariousalternatives,inparticularincluding

measurestoimprovetherisksensitivityofstandardizedapproachesand

toreduceexcessivevariabilityinadvancedapproaches.TheBCBSisalso

expectedtoproposerevisedcapitalfloorsbasedonstandardized

approaches.Ifsuchchangeswereimplemented,theycouldhavethe

effectofincreasingthecapitalthatwearerequiredtohold.
InAugust2014,Canada’sDepartmentofFinanceissuedaCon-
sultationPaperoutliningaCanadianbail-inregime,whichincludesa

proposalforaHigherLossAbsorbency(HLA)requirementapplicableto

D-SIBs,tobemetthroughacombinationofregulatorycapitalandlong-

termseniordebt.
InNovember2014,theFinancialStabilityBoard(FSB)issueda
ConsultationPapertoenhancetheloss-absorbingcapacityofglobal

systemicallyimportantbanks(G-SIBs)inresolution.UndertheFSB

proposal,G-SIBswouldberequiredtomaintainminimumamountsof
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
65MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
TotalLossAbsorbencyCapacity(TLAC)comprisedofregulatorycapital
andeligibleliabilitiesthatcanabsorblossesinresolution.Forfurther

discussionoftheDepartmentofFinanceandFSBproposals,pleaserefer

totheLiquidityandFundingRisksectionstartingonpage95.
BMOconductsbusinessthroughavarietyofcorporatestructures,
includingsubsidiariesandjointventures.Aframeworkisinplacefor

subsidiariestoappropriatelymanagetheirfundingandcapital.
AsabankholdingcompanywithtotalconsolidatedassetsofUS$50
billionormore,oursubsidiaryBMOFinancialCorp.(BFC)infiscal2014

becamesubjecttotheFederalReserveBoard’s(FRB)annualCompre-

hensiveCapitalAnalysisandReview(CCAR)andmid-yearDodd-Frank

Actstresstesting(DFAST)requirements.CCARrequiresBFCtotestits

abilitytomeetapplicableregulatorycapitalrequirementsandcontinue

tooperateunderseverestress.Thequantitativeandqualitativeaspects

ofBFC’s2014CCARcapitalplanweresubjecttosupervisoryreviewand

theFRBapplieditsownquantitativetoolstoevaluateBFC.TheFRB

announceditsdecisionnottoobjecttoBFC’scapitalplaninMarch2014

anddisclosedtheresultsofitsquantitativeanalysis.BFCanditsbank

subsidiaryBMOHarrisBankN.A.(BHB)alsodisclosedtheirresultsunder

theCCARsupervisoryseverelyadversescenario.UnderDFAST,BFCand

BHBexecutemid-yearcompany-runstresstests.BFCandBHBsubmitted

theirDFASTstressteststotheFRBandtheOfficeoftheComptrollerof

theCurrencyinJuly2014,anddisclosedtheresultsinSeptember2014.
TheCommonEquityTier1Ratio
reflectsBaselIIICET1capital
dividedbyCET1capitalRWA.
TheTier1CapitalRatio
reflectsBaselIIITier1capitaldividedby
Tier1capitalRWA.

TheTotalCapitalRatio
reflectsBaselIIITotalcapitaldividedbyTotal
capitalRWA.

TheAssets-to-CapitalMultiple
,aleverageratiomonitoredbyOSFI,
reflectstotalassets,includingspecifiedoff-balancesheetitemsnet
ofotherspecifieddeductions,dividedbyTotalcapital,calculatedon

atransitionalbasis.
TheLeverageRatio
isdefinedasBaselIIITier1capitaldividedby
thesumofon-balancesheetitemsandspecifiedoff-balancesheet
items,netofspecifieddeductions.Bankswillberequiredtopublicly

disclosetheirBaselIIILeverageRatioonaconsolidatedbasis

commencinginthefirstquarterof2015.
2014RegulatoryCapitalReview
BMO’scapitalratiosarestrongandexceedOSFI’srequirementsforlarge

Canadianbanks,includingthe1%D-SIBCommonEquitySurchargetobe

implementedin2016.OurCET1Ratiowas10.1%atOctober31,2014,

comparedto9.9%atOctober31,2013.TheCET1Ratioincreasedby

20basispointsfromtheendoffiscal2013primarilyduetohigher

capital,partiallyoffsetbytheimpactoftheF&Cacquisition,anda

moderateincreaseinRWA.TheRWAincreasewasattributabletohigher

businessvolumes,foreignexchangeratemovements,whichwelargely

hedgeasdiscussedbelow,partlyoffsetbymethodologychanges,

improvedriskassessmentsandriskmitigation.
OurTier1CapitalandTotalCapitalRatioswere12.0%and14.3%,
respectively,atOctober31,2014,comparedto11.4%and13.7%,

respectively,atOctober31,2013.TheTier1andTotalCapitalRatios

eachincreasedby60basispointsfromtheendoffiscal2013duetothe

factorsimpactingtheCET1Ratio,discussedabove,aswellastheissu-

ancesofNVCC-qualifyingpreferredshares,partiallyoffsetbypreferred

shareredemptions.TheincreaseintheTotalCapitalRatiowasalso

partlyduetotheissuanceofNVCC-qualifyingsubordinatednotesduring

thefourthquarter.
BMO’sACMwas16.1atOctober31,2014,upfrom15.6at
October31,2013,primarilyduetobalancesheetgrowth,partlyoffset

byhigherTotalcapital.OurACMremainswellbelowthemaximum

permittedbyOSFI.IftheBaselIIILeverageRatiowasinforceattheend

ofthe2014fiscalyear,BMOwouldhaveaLeverageRatiocomfortably

inexcessofthe3%minimumrequirement.
BMO’sinvestmentsinforeignoperationsareprimarilydenominated
inU.S.dollars.TheforeignexchangeimpactofU.S.dollar-denominated

RWAandU.S.dollar-denominatedcapitaldeductionsmayresultin

variabilityinthebank’scapitalratios.BMOmayenterintohedging

arrangementstoreducetheimpactofforeignexchangemovementson

itscapitalratios.
66BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ARegulatoryCapital(All-inbasis)
(1)(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31
20142013CommonEquityTier1capital:instruments
andreserves
Directlyissuedqualifyingcommonsharecapital
plusrelatedstocksurplus
12,66112,318Retainedearnings
17,23715,224Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome
(andotherreserves)
1,375602Goodwillandotherintangibles(netofrelated
taxliability)
(6,875)(4,910)OthercommonequityTier1capitaldeductions
(1,977)(2,007)CommonEquityTier1capital(CET1)
22,42121,227AdditionalTier1capital:instruments
DirectlyissuedqualifyingAdditionalTier1
instrumentsplusrelatedstocksurplus
1,200–Directlyissuedcapitalinstrumentssubjectto
phase-outfromAdditionalTier1
3,3323,770AdditionalTier1instruments(andCET1instruments
nototherwiseincluded)issuedbysubsidiaries

andheldbythirdparties(amountallowedin

groupAT1)
711ofwhich:instrumentsissuedbysubsidiaries
subjecttophase-out
711TotalregulatoryadjustmentsappliedtoAdditional
Tier1capital
(358)(409)AdditionalTier1capital(AT1)
4,1813,372Tier1capital(T1=CET1+AT1)
26,60224,599Tier2capital:instrumentsandprovisions
DirectlyissuedqualifyingTier2instruments
plusrelatedstocksurplus
1,002–Directlyissuedcapitalinstrumentssubjectto
phase-outfromTier2
4,0274,444Tier2instruments(andCET1andAT1instruments
notincluded)issuedbysubsidiariesandheldby

thirdparties(amountallowedingroupTier2)
80176ofwhich:instrumentsissuedbysubsidiaries
subjecttophase-out
80176Collectiveallowances
266331TotalregulatoryadjustmentstoTier2capital
(50)(50)Tier2capital(T2)
5,3254,901Totalcapital(TC=T1+T2)
31,92729,500(1)“All-in”regulatorycapitalassumesthatallBaselIIIregulatoryadjustmentsareapplied
effectiveJanuary1,2013,andthatthecapitalvalueofinstrumentsthatnolongerqualifyas
regulatorycapitalunderBaselIIIruleswillbephasedoutatarateof10%peryearfrom

January1,2013toJanuary1,2022.
OurCET1andTier1capitalwere$22.4billionand$26.6billion,

respectively,atOctober31,2014,upfrom$21.2billionand

$24.6billion,respectively,atOctober31,2013.CET1capitalincreased

duetoretainedearningsgrowth,increasestoaccumulatedother

comprehensiveincome,theissuanceofcommonsharesthroughthe

ShareholderDividendReinvestmentandSharePurchasePlan(DRIP)and

theexerciseofstockoptions,partiallyoffsetbythepaymentofdivi-

dends.TheincreaseinTier1capitalsinceOctober31,2013was

attributabletothegrowthinCET1capitalandissuanceofNVCC-

qualifyingpreferredshares,partiallyoffsetbytheredemptionofpre-

ferredshares,asoutlinedbelowintheCapitalManagementActivities

section.Totalcapitalwas$31.9billionatOctober31,2014,upfrom
$29.5billionatOctober31,2013,attributabletothegrowthinTier1

capitalmentionedaboveandissuanceofNVCC-qualifyingsubordinated

debt,partiallyoffsetbythephase-outofTier2instrumentsthatno

longerqualifyascapitalunderBaselIII,asmentionedabove.
Risk-WeightedAssets
(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31
20142013CreditRisk
WholesaleCorporate,includingspecializedlending
81,340
78,671Corporatesmallandmedium-sizedenterprises
33,64426,594Sovereign1,612904Bank4,1864,448RetailResidentialmortgages,excludinghome
equitylineofcredit
7,6188,711Homeequitylineofcredit
6,5416,579Qualifyingrevolvingretail
4,0004,580Otherretail,excludingsmalland
medium-sizedenterprises
9,82612,410Retailsmallandmedium-sizedenterprises
1,6041,535Equity1,3621,366Tradingbook
7,3596,137Securitization3,0984,598Othercreditriskassets–non-counterparty
managedassets
14,94614,822Scalingfactorforcreditriskassetsunder
AIRBApproach
(1)8,2517,934TotalCreditRisk
185,387179,289MarketRisk
9,0029,154OperationalRisk
27,70326,651CET1CapitalRisk-WeightedAssets
222,092215,094AdditionalCVAadjustment,prescribedbyOSFI,
forTier1Capital
336–Tier1CapitalRisk-WeightedAssets
222,428215,094AdditionalCVAadjustment,prescribedbyOSFI,
forTotalCapital
503–TotalCapitalRisk-WeightedAssets
222,931215,094(1)Thescalingfactorisappliedtotherisk-weightedassetsamountsforcreditriskunderthe
AIRBApproach.
EconomicCapitalReview
Economiccapitalisameasureofourinternalassessmentoftherisks

underlyingBMO’sbusinessactivities.Itrepresentsmanagement’s

estimationofthelikelymagnitudeofeconomiclossesthatcouldoccur

shouldadversesituationsarise,andallowsreturnstobemeasuredona

basisthatconsiderstheriskstaken.Economiccapitaliscalculatedfor

varioustypesofrisk–credit,market(tradingandnon-trading),opera-

tionalandbusiness–basedonaone-yeartimehorizon.Economic

capitalisakeyelementofourrisk-basedcapitalmanagementand

ICAAPframework.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
67MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
EconomicCapitalandRWAbyOperatingGroupandRiskType
AsatOctober31,2014
BMO Financial GroupOperating GroupsWealthManagementBMO Capital MarketsCorporateServicesEconomic Capital by Risk Type (%)CreditMarket89%3%
8%56%
21%
23%25%
33%
42%76%7%17%Operational/Other16,79038,8839,072120,642Credit8,92181Market7,6284,79015,285OperationalRWA by Risk Type (Canadian $ in millions) Personal and 
Commercial
BankingCapitalManagementActivities
OnDecember3,2013,weannouncedourintention,andsubsequently
obtainedtheapprovalofOSFIandtheTorontoStockExchange(TSX),to

initiateanormalcourseissuerbid(NCIB)topurchaseupto15millionof

BMO’scommonsharesontheTSXforthepurposeofcancellation.During

fiscal2014,wedidnotpurchaseanysharesunderourNCIBshare

repurchaseprogram.ThecurrentNCIBissettoexpireonJanuary31,2015.
OnDecember2,2014,weannouncedourintention,subjecttothe
approvalofOSFIandtheTSX,toinitiateanewNCIBforupto15million

ofBMO’scommonshares,commencingonoraboutFebruary1,2015,

aftertheexpiryofthecurrentNCIB.Onceapprovalsareobtained,the

sharerepurchaseprogramwillpermitBMOtopurchaseitscommon

sharesontheTSXforthepurposeofcancellation.MaintainingaNCIBis

partofBMO’scapitalmanagementstrategy.Thetimingandamountof

anypurchasesundertheprogramaresubjecttoregulatoryapprovals

andtomanagementdiscretionbasedonfactorssuchasmarketcon-

ditionsandcapitaladequacy.
OnNovember28,2014,BMOannounceditsintentiontoredeem
the$600millionofoutstandingBMOCapitalTrustSecurities–SeriesD

(BMOBOaTS–SeriesD)onDecember31,2014.
During2014,BMOissued4.9millioncommonsharesthroughthe
DRIPandtheexerciseofstockoptions.
OnFebruary25,2014,weredeemedallofour$150millionNon-
cumulativeClassBPreferredshares,Series18.OnMay26,2014,we

redeemedallofour$275millionNon-cumulativeClassBPreferred
shares,Series21.
OnApril23,2014,wecompletedourofferingofNon-cumulative
5-YearRateResetClassBPreferredSharesSeries27,ourinaugural

issuanceofNVCCpreferredshares.Weissued20millionsharesfor

aggregateproceedsof$500million.
OnJune6,2014,wecompletedourofferingofNon-cumulative
5-YearRateResetClassBPreferredSharesSeries29.Weissued

16millionsharesforaggregateproceedsof$400million.
OnJuly30,2014,wecompletedourofferingofNon-cumulative
5-YearRateResetClassBPreferredSharesSeries31.Weissued

12millionsharesforaggregateproceedsof$300million.
OnSeptember19,2014,wecompletedourofferingofSeriesH
Medium-TermNotes,Tranche1,ourinauguralissuanceofNVCCsub-

ordinatednotes.Weissuedthenotesforaggregateproceedsof

$1.0billion.
Non-viabilitycontingentcapital(NVCC)provisionsrequirethe
conversionofthecapitalinstrumentintoavariablenumberofcommon

sharesintheeventthatOSFIpubliclyannouncesthatthebankisoris

abouttobecomenon-viableorafederalorprovincialgovernmentin

Canadapubliclyannouncesthatthebankhasacceptedoragreedto

acceptacapitalinjection.IfaNVCCtriggereventweretooccur,our

NVCCcapitalinstruments,Non-cumulative5-YearRateResetClassB

PreferredSharesSeries27,Series29andSeries31,andSeriesH

Medium-TermNotes,Tranche1,wouldbeconvertedintoBMOcommon

sharespursuanttoautomaticconversionformulaswithaconversion

pricebasedonthegreaterof:(i)afloorpriceof$5.00,and(ii)the

currentmarketpriceofourcommonsharesatthetimeofthetrigger

event(10-dayweightedaverage).Basedonafloorpriceof$5.00,these

NVCCcapitalinstrumentswouldconvertinto540millionBMOcommon

shares,assumingnoaccruedinterestandnodeclaredandunpaid

dividends.FurtherdetailsareprovidedinNotes17,18and20onpages158,
159and161ofthefinancialstatements.
68BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AOutstandingSharesandSecuritiesConvertible
intoCommonShares
Numberofshares
ordollaramount

(inmillions)
Dividendsdeclaredpershare
AsatNovember26,2014
201420132012
Commonshares
649$3.08$2.94$2.82
ClassBPreferredshares
Series5
(1)––$0.33$1.33
Series13
$350
$1.13$1.13$1.13
Series14
$250
$1.31$1.31$1.31
Series15
$250
$1.45$1.45$1.45
Series16
(2)$157
$0.85$1.19$1.30
Series17
(2)$143
$0.64$0.17–Series18
(3)–$0.41$1.63$1.63
Series21
(4)–$0.81$1.63$1.63
Series23
$400
$1.35$1.35$1.35
Series25
$290
$0.98$0.98$0.98
Series27
$500
$0.59––Series29
$400
$0.46––Series31
$300
$0.31––Convertibleintocommonshares:
ClassBPreferredshares(inUS$)
Series10(US$)
(5)–––US$0.37
Medium-TermNotes
SeriesH
(6)$1,000nananaStockoptions
–vested6.6

–non-vested6.7
(1)RedeemedinFebruary2013.
(2)InAugust2013,approximately5.7millionSeries16Preferredshareswereconvertedinto
Series17Preferredsharesonaone-for-onebasis.
(3)RedeemedinFebruary2014.

(4)RedeemedinMay2014.

(5)RedeemedinFebruary2012.

(6)Note17onpage158ofthefinancialstatementsincludesdetailsontheSeriesHMedium-
TermNotes,Tranche1.
na–notapplicable
Note20onpage161ofthefinancialstatementsincludesdetailsonsharecapital.
DividendsDividendsdeclaredpercommonshareinfiscal2014totalled$3.08.

Annualdividendsdeclaredrepresented47.6%ofreportednetincome

and46.6%ofadjustednetincomeavailabletocommonshareholderson
alasttwelvemonthsbasis.Overthelongterm,BMO’sdividendsare

generallyincreasedinlinewithtrendsinearningspersharegrowth.
Ourtargetdividendpayoutrange(commonsharedividendsasa
percentageofnetincomeavailabletoshareholders,lesspreferredshare

dividends,basedonadjustedearningsoverthelasttwelvemonths)is

40%to50%,whichisconsistentwithourobjectiveofmaintainingflexi-

bilitytoexecuteonourgrowthstrategies,andtakesintoconsideration

thehighercapitalexpectationsresultingfromtheBaselIIIrules.BMO’s

targetdividendpayoutrangeseekstoprovideshareholderswithstable

income,whileensuringsufficientearningsareretainedtosupport

anticipatedbusinessgrowth,fundstrategicinvestmentsandprovide

continuedsupportfordepositors.
Atyearend,BMO’scommonsharesprovideda3.8%annualdivi-
dendyieldbasedontheyear-endclosingsharepriceanddividends

declaredinthelastfourquarters.OnDecember2,2014,BMO

announcedthattheBoardofDirectorshaddeclaredaquarterlydividend

oncommonsharesof$0.80pershare,up$0.02pershareor3%from

thepriorquarterandup$0.04pershareor5%fromayearago.The

dividendispayableonFebruary26,2015toshareholdersofrecordon

February2,2015.
Commonshareholdersmayelecttohavetheircashdividends
reinvestedincommonsharesofBMOinaccordancewiththeDRIP.In

thefirsttwoquartersof2014,commonsharestosupplytheDRIPwere

purchasedontheopenmarket.Inthethirdquarterof2014,common

sharesfortheDRIPwereissuedfromtreasurywithoutdiscountandin

thefourthquarterof2014,commonsharestosupplytheDRIPwere

issuedfromtreasuryata2%discountfromtheirthen-currentmarket

price.Inthefirstquarterof2015,commonsharesfortheDRIPwere

issuedfromtreasurywithoutdiscount.
EligibleDividendsDesignation
Forthepurposesofthe
IncomeTaxAct
(Canada)andanysimilarprovin-
cialandterritoriallegislation,BMOdesignatesalldividendspaidor

deemedtobepaidonbothitscommonandpreferredsharesas

“eligibledividends”,unlessindicatedotherwise.
Caution
ThisEnterprise-WideCapitalManagementsectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.

PleaseseetheCautionRegardingForward-LookingStatements.
Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
SelectFinancialInstruments
TheFinancialStabilityBoard(FSB)issuedareportin2012encouraging
enhanceddisclosurerelatedtofinancialinstrumentsthatmarketpartic-

ipantshadcometoregardascarryinghigherrisk.Anindexofwherethe

disclosuresrecommendedbytheEnhancedDisclosureTaskForceofthe

FSBarelocatedisprovidedonpage75.
CautionGivencontinueduncertaintyinthecapitalmarketsenvironment,our

capitalmarketsinstrumentscouldexperiencevaluationgainsandlosses

duetochangesinmarketvalue.Thissection,SelectFinancialInstru-

ments,containsforward-lookingstatements.PleaseseetheCaution

RegardingForward-LookingStatementsonpage29.
ConsumerLoans
InCanada,ourConsumerLendingportfolioiscomprisedofthreemain

assetclasses:residentialmortgages,instalment/otherpersonalloans,

includingindirectautoloans,andcreditcardloans.Wedonothaveany

subprimeorAlt-Amortgageorhomeequityloanprograms,nordowe

purchasesubprimeorAlt-Aloansfromthirdpartylenders.
IntheUnitedStates,theConsumerLendingportfolioisprimarily
comprisedofthreeassetclasses:residentialfirstmortgages,home

equityproductsandindirectautomobileloans.Wehaveasmallportfolio

offirstmortgageandhomeequityloansoutstandingthathadsubprime

orAlt-Acharacteristicsatthedateofauthorization(e.g.,lowcreditscore

orlimiteddocumentation).Theseprogramshavebeendiscontinued.
Balancesoutstandingandamountsinarrears90daysormoreatyear

endwerenotsignificant.
InbothCanadaandtheUnitedStates,consumerlendingproducts
areunderwrittentoprudentstandardsrelativetocreditscores,loan-to-

valueratios,andcapacityassessment,andaregenerallybasedupon

documentedandverifiableincome.
LeveragedFinance
LeveragedfinanceloansaredefinedbyBMOasloanstoprivateequity

businessesandmezzaninefinancingswhereourassessmentindicatesa

higherlevelofcreditrisk.BMOhasexposuretoleveragedfinanceloans,

whichrepresent1.4%ofourtotalassets,with$8.5billionoutstanding

atOctober31,2014,upapproximately$2.0billionfromayearago.Of

thisamount,$179millionor2.1%ofleveragedfinanceloanswere

classifiedasimpaired($82millionor1.3%in2013).
BMO-SponsoredSecuritizationVehicles
BMOsponsorsvariousvehiclesthatfundassetsoriginatedbyeither

BMO(throughabanksecuritizationvehicle)oritscustomers(several

CanadiancustomersecuritizationvehiclesandoneU.S.customer

securitizationvehicle).Weearnfeesforprovidingservicesrelatedtothe

customersecuritizationvehicles,includingliquidity,distributionand

financialarrangementfeesforsupportingtheongoingoperationsofthe

vehicles.Thesefeestotalledapproximately$66millionin2014and

$53millionin2013.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
69MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
CanadianCustomerSecuritizationVehicles
ThecustomersecuritizationvehicleswesponsorinCanadaprovideour

customerswithaccesstofinancingeitherdirectlyfromBMOorinthe

asset-backedcommercialpaper(ABCP)markets.Customersselltheir

assetsintothesevehicles,whichthenissueABCPtoeitherinvestorsor

BMOtofundthepurchases.Inallcases,thesellersremainresponsible

fortheservicingofthetransferredassetsandarefirsttoabsorbany

lossesrealizedontheassets.
OurexposuretopotentiallossesrelatestoourinvestmentinABCP
issuedbythevehicles,derivativecontractswehaveenteredintowith

thevehiclesandtheliquiditysupportweprovidetoABCPpurchasedby

investors.Weuseourcreditadjudicationprocessindecidingwhetherto

enterintotheseagreementsjustaswedowhenextendingcreditinthe

formofaloan.
Twoofthesecustomersecuritizationvehiclesarefundedinthe
market,whileathirdisfundeddirectlybyBMO.BMOconsolidatesthe

assetsofanycustomersecuritizationvehiclesthatBMOisdeemedto

control.Furtherinformationontheconsolidationofcustomersecuritiza-

tionvehiclesisprovidedinNote9onpage144ofthefinancialstate-

ments.TherewerenomortgageloanswithsubprimeorAlt-A

characteristicsheldinanyofthecustomersecuritizationvehiclesat

yearend.NolosseshavebeenrecordedonanyofBMO’sexposuresto

thesevehicles.
BMO’sinvestmentintheABCPofthemarket-fundedvehicles
totalled$10millionatOctober31,2014($13millionin2013).
BMOprovidedliquiditysupportfacilitiestothemarket-funded
vehiclestotalling$4.6billionatOctober31,2014($3.9billionin2013).

Thisamountcomprisedpartofothercreditinstrumentsoutlinedin

Note5onpage139ofthefinancialstatements.Allofthesefacilities

remainundrawn.Theassetsofeachofthesemarket-fundedcustomer

securitizationvehiclesconsistprimarilyofdiversifiedpoolsofCanadian

automobile-relatedreceivablesandCanadianinsuredresidentialmort-

gages.Thesetwoassetclassesrepresent85%(77%in2013)ofthe

aggregateassetsofthesevehicles.
U.S.CustomerSecuritizationVehicle
WesponsoraU.S.ABCPmulti-sellervehiclethatweconsolidateunder

IFRS.Thiscustomersecuritizationvehicleassistsourcustomerswiththe

securitizationoftheirassetstoprovidethemwithalternativesourcesof

funding.Thevehicleprovidesfundingtodiversifiedpoolsofportfolios
through30(47in2013)individualsecuritizationtransactionswithan

averagefacilitysizeofUS$136million(US$94millionin2013).Thesize

ofthepoolsrangedfromUS$7milliontoUS$650millionat

October31,2014.Therewerenoresidentialmortgagesclassifiedas

subprimeorAlt-AheldinthisABCPmulti-sellervehicle.
Thevehicleholdsexposuressecuredbyavarietyofassetclasses,
includingmid-marketcorporateloans,studentloansandautoloans.
ThevehiclehadUS$2.6billionofcommercialpaperoutstandingat
October31,2014(US$3.4billionin2013).TheABCPofthevehicleis

ratedA1byS&PandP1byMoody’s.BMOhasnotinvestedinthevehi-

cle’sABCP.BMOprovidescommittedliquiditysupportfacilitiestothe

vehicle,withtheundrawnamounttotallingUS$4.6billionat

October31,2014(US$4.5billionin2013).
CreditProtectionVehicle
Wealsosponsoracreditprotectionvehiclethathasexposuretodiversi-

fiedcorporatecredits,whichhavethebenefitoffirst-lossprotection.We

consolidatethisvehicleunderIFRS.Notranchesmaturedin2014.The

remainingnotionalamountis$6.4billionwithsignificantfirst-loss

protectionstartingfrom28%ofthenotionalexposure.Approximately

66%ofthecorporatecreditsareratedinvestmentgrade.Thevehicle

has$359.9millionofnotesoutstanding,thathaveanexpectedmaturity

datein2016.BMOhashedgeditsexposuretoitsnoteholdingsofthe

vehicle.BMOhasenteredintocreditdefaultswapcontractsonthenet

notionalpositionsinthestructurewiththeswapcounterpartiesandinto

offsettingswapswiththevehicle.
Giventheleveloffirst-lossprotection,thehedgesinplaceon
BMO’snoteholdingsandtheprotectionprovidedbythird-partynote-

holders,BMOisextremelywellprotectedfromlossesinrelationtothe

vehicle.
ExposuretoOtherSelectFinancialInstruments:
CollateralizedLoanObligations(CLOs)
BMO’stradingandavailable-for-saleportfolioscontainCLOs,allofwhich
areinrun-offmode.Theunderlyingsecuritiesconsistofawiderangeof

corporateassets.UnhedgedexposurestoCLOstotalled$237millionand

hadcreditratingsofAA-toAAAatyearend.HedgedCLOexposuresof

$277millionhadacarryingvalueof$274millionatyearend,with

$3millionrecoverableonassociatedhedgeswithamonolineinsurer

thatisratedA2byMoody’s.
Off-BalanceSheetArrangements
BMOentersintoanumberofoff-balancesheetarrangementsinthe

normalcourseofoperations.
CreditInstruments
Inordertomeetthefinancialneedsofourclients,weuseavarietyof

off-balancesheetcreditinstruments.Theseincludeguaranteesand

standbylettersofcredit,whichrepresentourobligationtomake

paymentstothirdpartiesonbehalfofacustomerifthecustomeris

unabletomaketherequiredpaymentsormeetothercontractual

requirements.Wealsowritedocumentaryandcommerciallettersof

credit,whichrepresentouragreementtohonourdraftspresentedbya

thirdpartyuponcompletionofspecifiedactivities.Commitmentsto

extendcreditareoff-balancesheetarrangementsthatrepresentour

commitmenttocustomerstograntthemcreditintheformofloansor

otherfinancingsforspecificamountsandmaturities,subjecttomeeting

certainconditions.
Therearealargenumberofcreditinstrumentsoutstandingatany
time.Ourcustomersarebroadlydiversifiedandwedonotanticipate

eventsorconditionsthatwouldcauseasignificantnumberofour

customerstofailtoperforminaccordancewiththetermsofthecon-

tracts.Weuseourcreditadjudicationprocessindecidingwhetherto

enterintothesearrangements,justaswedowhenextendingcreditin

theformofaloan.Wemonitoroff-balancesheetinstrumentstoavoid

undueconcentrationsinanygeographicregionorindustry.
ThemaximumamountpayablebyBMOinrelationtothesecredit
instrumentswasapproximately$105billionatOctober31,2014

($90billionin2013).However,thisamountisnotrepresentativeofour

likelycreditexposureorliquidityrequirementsfortheseinstruments,as

itdoesnottakeintoaccountcustomerbehaviour,whichsuggeststhat

onlyaportionwillutilizethefacilitiesrelatedtotheseinstruments.It

alsodoesnottakeintoaccountanyamountsthatcouldberecovered

underrecourseandcollateralizationprovisions.Furtherinformationon

theseinstrumentscanbefoundinNote5onpage139ofthefinan-

cialstatements.
Forthecreditcommitmentsoutlinedintheprecedingparagraphs,
intheabsenceofaneventthattriggersadefault,earlyterminationby

BMOmayresultinabreachofcontract.
StructuredEntities(SEs)
OurinterestsinSEsarediscussedprimarilyonpages69and70inthe

BMO-SponsoredSecuritizationVehiclessectionandinNote9on

page144ofthefinancialstatements.UnderIFRS,weconsolidateour

banksecuritizationvehicles,U.S.customersecuritizationvehicles,credit

protectionvehicle,andcertaincapitalandfundingvehicles.Wedonot

consolidateourCanadiancustomersecuritizationvehicles,structured

financevehicles,certaincapitalandfundingvehicles,andvariousBMO

managedandnon-BMOmanagedinvestmentfunds.
70BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AGuaranteesGuaranteesincludecontractsunderwhichwemayberequiredtomake
paymentstoacounterpartybasedonchangesinthevalueofanasset,

liabilityorequitysecuritythatthecounterpartyholds.Contractsunder

whichwemayberequiredtomakepaymentsifathirdpartydoesnot

performaccordingtothetermsofacontractandcontractsunderwhich

weprovideindirectguaranteesofindebtednessarealsoconsidered

guarantees.Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,weenterintoavarietyof

guarantees,includingstandbylettersofcredit,backstopandother

liquidityfacilitiesandderivativescontractsorinstruments(including,but

notlimitedto,creditdefaultswaps,aswellasindemnification

agreements).ThemaximumamountpayablebyBMOinrelationtotheseguaran-
teeswas$31billionatOctober31,2014($31billionin2013).However,

thisamountisnotrepresentativeofourlikelyexposure,asitdoesnot

takeintoaccountcustomerbehaviour,whichsuggeststhatonlyapor-

tionoftheguaranteeswillrequirepayment.Italsodoesnottakeinto

accountanyamountsthatcouldberecoveredthroughrecourseand

collateralprovisions.
Foramoredetaileddiscussionoftheseagreements,pleasesee
Note7onpage142ofthefinancialstatements.
Caution
ThisOff-BalanceSheetArrangementssectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.Pleaseseethe

CautionRegardingForward-LookingStatements.
CriticalAccountingEstimates
Themostsignificantassetsandliabilitiesforwhichwemustmake

estimatesinclude:allowanceforcreditlosses;financialinstruments

measuredatfairvalue;pensionandotheremployeefuturebenefits;

impairmentofsecurities;incometaxesanddeferredtaxassets;goodwill

andintangibleassets;purchasedloans;acquireddeposits;insurance-

relatedliabilities;andcontingentliabilities.Wemakejudgmentsin

assessingwhethersubstantiallyallrisksandrewardshavebeentrans-

ferredinrespectoftransfersoffinancialassetsandwhetherwecontrol

SEs.ThesejudgmentsarediscussedinNotes8and9,respectively,on

pages143and144ofthefinancialstatements.Note31onpage178of

thefinancialstatementsdiscussesthejudgmentsmadeindetermining

thefairvalueoffinancialinstruments.Ifactualresultsdifferfromthe

estimates,theimpactwouldberecordedinfutureperiods.Wehave

establisheddetailedpoliciesandcontrolproceduresthatareintendedto

ensurethejudgmentswemakeindeterminingtheestimatesarewell

controlled,independentlyreviewedandconsistentlyappliedfromperiod

toperiod.WebelievethatourestimatesofthevalueofBMO’sassets

andliabilitiesareappropriate.
Foramoredetaileddiscussionoftheuseofestimates,pleasesee
Note1onpage128ofthefinancialstatements.
AllowanceforCreditLosses
Oneofourkeyperformancemeasuresistheprovisionforcreditlossesas

apercentageofaveragenetloansandacceptances.Overthe10years

priorto2014,ouraverageannualratiohasrangedfromahighof0.88%

in2009toalowofnegative0.08%in2004.Thisratiovarieswith

changesintheeconomyandcreditconditions.Ifweweretoapplythese

highandlowratiostoaveragenetloansandacceptancesin2014,our

provisionforcreditlosseswouldrangefromarecoveryof$230millionto
aprovisionof$2,571million.Ourprovisionforcreditlossesin2014was
$561million.
Additionalinformationontheprocessandmethodologyfor
determiningtheallowanceforcreditlossescanbefoundinthedis-

cussionofCreditandCounterpartyRiskonpage84aswellasinNote4

onpage136ofthefinancialstatements.
FinancialInstrumentsMeasuredatFairValue
BMOrecordscertainsecuritiesandderivativesattheirfairvalue,and

certainliabilitiesaredesignatedatfairvalue.Fairvaluerepresentsour

estimateoftheamountwewouldreceive,orwouldhavetopayinthe

caseofaliability,inacurrenttransactionbetweenwillingparties.We

employafairvaluehierarchytocategorizetheinputsweuseinvalu-

ationtechniquestomeasurefairvalue.Theextentofouruseofquoted

marketprices(Level1),internalmodelsusingobservablemarket

information(Level2)andinternalmodelswithoutobservablemarket

information(Level3)inthevaluationofsecurities,derivativeassetsand

derivativeliabilitiesasatOctober31,2014,aswellasasensitivity
analysisofourLevel3financialinstruments,isdisclosedinNote31on

page178ofthefinancialstatements.
Valuationmodelsusegeneralassumptionsandmarketdata,and
thereforedonotreflectthespecificrisksandotherfactorsthatwould

affectaparticularinstrument’sfairvalue.ValuationProductControl

(VPC),agroupindependentofthetradinglinesofbusiness,verifiesthe

fairvaluesatwhichfinancialinstrumentsarerecorded.Forinstruments

thatarevaluedusingmodels,VPCidentifiessituationswherevaluation

adjustmentsmustbemadetothemodelestimatestoarriveatfair

value.Asaresult,weincorporatecertainadjustmentswhenusing

internalmodelstoestablishfairvalues.Thesefairvalueadjustments

takeintoaccounttheestimatedimpactofcreditrisk,liquidityriskand

otheritemsincludingcloseoutcosts.Forexample,thecreditrisk

adjustmentforderivativefinancialinstrumentsincorporatescreditrisk

intoourdeterminationoffairvaluesbytakingintoaccountfactorssuch

asthecounterparty’screditrating,thedurationoftheinstrumentand

changesincreditspreads.Wealsoincorporateanestimateofthe

implicitfundingcostsbornebyBMOforover-the-counterderivative

positions(thefundingvaluationadjustment).
Themethodologiesusedforcalculatingtheseadjustmentsare
reviewedonanongoingbasistoensurethattheyremainappropriate.

Significantchangesinmethodologiesaremadeonlywhenwebelieve

thatthechangewillresultinbetterestimatesoffairvalue.
ValuationAdjustments
(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31
20142013Creditrisk
5349Fundingrisk
39–Liquidityrisk
5948Administrativecosts
–11Other23Total153111Valuationadjustmentsincreasedin2014primarilyduetotheinclusion

ofthefundingvaluationadjustmentinresponsetoevolvingmarket

practiceinderivativepricing.
ConsolidationofStructuredEntities
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,BMOentersintoarrangementswith

SEs.WearerequiredtoconsolidateSEsifwedeterminethatwecontrol

theSEs.
WecontrolaSEwhenwehavepowerovertheentity,exposureor
rightstovariablereturnsfromourinvestmentandtheabilitytoexercise

powertoaffecttheamountofourreturns.Additionalinformationcon-

cerningBMO’sinvolvementwithSEsisincludedonpage70aswellasin

Note9onpage144ofthefinancialstatements.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
71MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
PensionandOtherEmployeeFutureBenefits
Ourpensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitsexpenseiscalculated
byourindependentactuariesusingassumptionsdeterminedby

management.Ifactualexperiencediffersfromtheassumptionsused,

pensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitsexpensecouldincreaseor

decreaseinfutureyears.
Pensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitsexpenseandobliga-
tionsaresensitivetochangesindiscountrates.Wedeterminediscount

ratesateachyearendforourCanadianandU.S.plansusinghigh-quality

corporatebondswithtermsmatchingtheplans’specificcashflows.
Additionalinformationregardingouraccountingforpensionand
otheremployeefuturebenefits,includingasensitivityanalysisfor

keyassumptions,isincludedinNote24onpage166ofthefinancial

statements.ImpairmentofSecurities
WehaveinvestmentsinsecuritiesissuedorguaranteedbyCanadian,

U.S.andothergovernments,corporatedebtandequitysecurities,

mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations,

whichareclassifiedaseitheravailable-for-salesecurities,held-to-

maturityorothersecurities.Wereviewheld-to-maturity,available-for-

saleandothersecuritiesateachquarter-endreportingperiodtoidentify

andevaluateinvestmentsthatshowindicationsofpossibleimpairment.

Aninvestmentisconsideredimpairedifthereisobjectiveevidencethat

theestimatedfuturecashflowswillbereducedandtheimpactcanbe

reliablymeasured.Weconsiderevidencesuchasdelinquencyordefault,

bankruptcy,restructuringorotherevidenceofdeteriorationinthe

creditworthinessoftheissuerortheabsenceofanactivemarket.The

decisiontorecordawrite-down,itsamountandtheperiodinwhichitis

recordedcouldchangeifmanagement’sassessmentofthosefactors

weredifferent.Wedonotrecordimpairmentwrite-downsondebt

securitieswhenimpairmentisduetochangesinmarketrates,iffuture

contractualcashflowsassociatedwiththedebtsecurityarestill

expectedtoberecovered.
Attheendof2014,thereweretotalunrealizedlossesof
$35milliononsecuritiesforwhichcostexceededfairvalueandan

impairmentwrite-downhadnotbeenrecorded.Ofthisamount,

$20millionrelatedtosecuritiesforwhichcosthadexceededfairvalue

for12monthsormore.Theseunrealizedlossesresultedfromincreases

inmarketinterestratesandnotfromdeteriorationinthecreditworthi-

nessoftheissuer.
Additionalinformationregardingouraccountingforavailable-for-
salesecurities,held-to-maturitysecuritiesandothersecuritiesandthe

determinationoffairvalueisincludedinNote3onpage132ofthe

financialstatements.
IncomeTaxesandDeferredTaxAssets
Theprovisionforincometaxesiscalculatedbasedontheexpectedtax

treatmentoftransactionsrecordedinourConsolidatedStatementsof

IncomeorChangesinEquity.Indeterminingtheprovisionforincome

taxes,weinterprettaxlegislationinavarietyofjurisdictionsandmake

assumptionsabouttheexpectedtimingofthereversalofdeferredtax

assetsandliabilities.Ifourinterpretationsdifferfromthoseoftax

authoritiesorifthetimingofreversalsisnotasexpected,ourprovision

forincometaxescouldincreaseordecreaseinfutureperiods.The

amountofanysuchincreaseordecreasecannotbereasonably

estimated.Deferredtaxassetsarerecognizedonlywhenitisprobablethat
sufficienttaxableprofitwillbeavailableinfutureperiodsagainstwhich

deductibletemporarydifferencesmaybeutilized.Wearerequiredto

assesswhetheritisprobablethatourdeferredincometaxassetwillbe

realizedpriortoitsexpirationand,basedonalltheavailableevidence,

determineifanyportionofourdeferredincometaxassetshouldnotbe

recognized.Thefactorsusedtoassesstheprobabilityofrealizationare
ourpastexperienceofincomeandcapitalgains,forecastoffuturenet

incomebeforetaxes,availabletaxplanningstrategiesthatcouldbe

implementedtorealizethedeferredincometaxasset,andthe

remainingexpirationperiodoftaxlosscarryforwards.Changesinour

assessmentofthesefactorscouldincreaseordecreaseourprovisionfor

incometaxesinfutureperiods.
Ifincometaxratesincreaseordecreaseinfutureperiodsinajuris-
diction,ourprovisionforincometaxforfutureperiodswillincreaseor

decreaseaccordingly.Furthermore,ourdeferredtaxassetsandliabilities

willincreaseordecreaseasincometaxratesdecreaseorincrease,

respectively,andwillresultineitheranincometaxchargeorrecovery.

A1%decreaseintheU.S.federaltaxratefrom35%to34%would

reduceourdeferredassetbyabout$55millionandwouldresultina

correspondingincometaxcharge.
Additionalinformationregardingouraccountingforincometaxesis
includedinNote25onpage171ofthefinancialstatements.
GoodwillandIntangibleAssets
Goodwillisassessedforimpairment
atleastannually.Thisassessment
includesacomparisonofthecarryingvalueandtherecoverableamount

ofeachbusinessunittoverifythattherecoverableamountofthebusi-

nessunitisgreaterthanitscarryingvalue.Ifthecarryingvaluewereto

exceedtherecoverableamountofthebusinessunit,animpairment
calculationwouldbeperformed.Therecoverableamountofanassetis
thehigherofitsfairvaluelesscoststosellanditsvalueinuse.
Fairvaluelesscoststosellwasusedtoperformtheimpairment
testinallperiods.Indeterminingfairvaluelesscoststosell,weemploy

adiscountedcashflowmodel,consistentwiththatusedwhenwe

acquirebusinesses.Thismodelisdependentonassumptionsrelatedto

revenuegrowth,discountrates,synergiesachievedonacquisitionand

theavailabilityofcomparableacquisitiondata.Changesineachofthese

assumptionswouldaffectthedeterminationoffairvalueforeachofthe

businessunitsinadifferentmanner.Managementmustexercise

judgmentandmakeassumptionsindeterminingfairvalue,anddiffer-

encesinjudgmentsandassumptionscouldaffectthedeterminationof

fairvalueandanyresultingimpairmentwrite-down.At

October31,2014,theestimatedfairvalueofeachofourbusinessunits

wasgreaterthanitscarryingvalue.
Intangibleassetsareamortizedtoincomeoneitherastraight-line
oranacceleratedbasisoveraperiodnotexceeding15years,depending

onthenatureoftheasset.Wetestintangibleassetsforimpairment

whencircumstancesindicatethecarryingvaluemaynotberecoverable.

NosuchimpairmentwasidentifiedfortheyearsendedOctober31,

2014and2013.Additionalinformationregardingthecompositionof

goodwillandintangibleassetsisincludedinNote13onpage154ofthe

financialstatements.
PurchasedLoans
Significantjudgmentandassumptionswereappliedtodeterminethe

fairvalueoftheMarshall&IlsleyCorporation(M&I)loanportfolio.Loans

wereidentifiedaseitherpurchasedperformingloansorpurchasedcredit

impairedloans(PCIloans),bothofwhichwererecordedatfairvalueat

thetimeofacquisition.Thedeterminationoffairvalueinvolved

estimatingtheexpectedcashflowstobereceivedanddeterminingthe

discountratetobeappliedtothecashflowsfromtheloanportfolio.In

determiningthepossiblediscountrates,weconsideredvariousfactors,

includingourcosttoraisefundsinthecurrentmarket,theriskpremium

associatedwiththeloansandthecosttoservicetheportfolios.PCIloans

arethosewherethetimelycollectionofprincipalandinterestwasno

longerreasonablyassuredasatthedateofacquisition.Weregularly

evaluatewhatweexpecttocollectonPCIloans.Changesinexpected

cashflowscouldresultintherecognitionofimpairmentorarecovery

throughtheprovisionforcreditlosses.Assessingthetimingandamount

ofcashflowsrequiressignificantmanagementjudgmentregardingkey
72BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&Aassumptions,includingtheprobabilityofdefault,severityofloss,timing
ofpaymentreceiptsandvaluationofcollateral.Allofthesefactorsare

inherentlysubjectiveandcanresultinsignificantchangesincashflow

estimatesoverthetermofaloan.
Thepurchasedperformingloansaresubjecttothecreditreview
processesappliedtoloansweoriginate.
AcquiredDeposits
M&Idepositliabilitieswererecordedatfairvalueatthedateofacquis-

ition.Thedeterminationoffairvalueinvolvedestimatingtheexpected

cashflowstobepaidanddeterminingthediscountratetobeappliedto

thecashflows.Estimatingthetimingandamountofcashflowsrequires

significantmanagementjudgmentregardingthelikelihoodofearly

redemptionbyusandthetimingofwithdrawalbytheclient.Discount

rateswerebasedontheprevailingrateswewerepayingonsimilar

depositsatthedateofacquisition.
Insurance-RelatedLiabilities
Insuranceclaimsandpolicybenefitliabilitiesrepresentcurrentclaims

andestimatesforfutureinsurancepolicybenefits.Liabilitiesforlife

insurancecontractsaredeterminedusingtheCanadianAssetLiability

Method,whichincorporatesbest-estimateassumptionsformortality,

morbidity,policylapses,surrenders,futureinvestmentyields,policy

dividends,administrationcostsandmarginsforadversedeviation.These

assumptionsarereviewedatleastannuallyandupdatedtoreflectactual
experienceandmarketconditions.Themostsignificantimpactonthe

valuationofaliabilityresultsfromachangeintheassumptionforfuture

investmentyields.Iftheassumedyieldweretoincreasebyone

percentagepoint,netincomewouldincreasebyapproximately

$71million.Areductionofonepercentagepointwouldlowernet

incomebyapproximately$63million.SeetheInsuranceRisksectionon

page102forfurtherdiscussionoftheimpactofchangingrateson

insuranceearnings.
ContingentLiabilities
BMOanditssubsidiariesareinvolvedinvariouslegalactionsinthe

ordinarycourseofbusiness.
Provisionsarerecordedatthebestestimateoftheamountrequired
tosettletheobligationrelatedtotheselegalactionsasatthebalance

sheetdate,takingintoaccounttherisksanduncertaintiessurrounding

theobligation.Managementandinternalandexternalexpertsare

involvedinestimatinganyamountsrequired.Theactualcostsof

resolvingtheseclaimsmaybesubstantiallyhigherorlowerthanthe

amountoftheprovisions.
AdditionalinformationregardingprovisionsisprovidedinNote30
onpage178ofthefinancialstatements.
Caution
ThisCriticalAccountingEstimatessectioncontainsforward-lookingstatements.

PleaseseetheCautionRegardingForward-LookingStatements.
ChangesinAccountingPoliciesin2014
BMOadoptedthefollowingneworamendedstandardsin2014:IAS19

EmployeeBenefits
;IAS1
PresentationofFinancialStatements
;IFRS10
ConsolidatedFinancialStatements
;IFRS11
JointArrangements
;IFRS12
DisclosureofInterestsinOtherEntities
;IFRS13
FairValueMeasurement
;andtheoffsettingprovisionsofIFRS7
FinancialInstruments:Disclosures
.TheimpactofadoptionisdiscussedinNote1onpage128ofthefinan-

cialstatements.
FutureChangesinAccountingPolicies
BMOmonitorsthepotentialchangestoIFRSproposedbytheInterna-

tionalAccountingStandardsBoard(IASB)andanalyzestheeffectthat

anysuchchangestothestandardsmayhaveonBMO’sfinancial
reportingandaccountingpolicies.Newstandardsandamendmentsto

existingstandardsthatwillbeeffectiveforBMOinthefutureare

describedinNote1onpage128ofthefinancialstatements.
TransactionswithRelatedParties
Intheordinarycourseofbusiness,weprovidebankingservicestoour

keymanagementpersonnelandtheiraffiliatedentities,jointventures

andequity-accountedinvesteesonthesametermsthatweoffertoour

customersforthoseservices.Keymanagementpersonnelaredefinedas

thosepersonshavingauthorityandresponsibilityforplanning,directing

and/orcontrollingtheactivitiesofanentity,beingthedirectorsand

mostseniorexecutivesofthebank.
Detailsofourinvestmentsinjointarrangementsandassociatesand
thecompensationofkeymanagementpersonnelaredisclosedinNote

29onpage177ofthefinancialstatements.Aselectsuiteofcustomer

loanandmortgageproductsisofferedtoouremployeesatratesnor-

mallymadeavailabletoourpreferredcustomers.Wealsooffer

employeesasubsidyonannualcreditcardfees.
Management’sAnnualReportonDisclosureControlsandProceduresand
InternalControloverFinancialReporting
DisclosureControlsandProcedures
Disclosurecontrolsandproceduresaredesignedtoprovidereasonable
assurancethatallrelevantinformationisgatheredandreportedto

seniormanagement,includingtheChiefExecutiveOfficer(CEO)andthe

ChiefFinancialOfficer(CFO),onatimelybasissothatappropriatedeci-

sionscanbemaderegardingpublicdisclosure.
Anevaluationoftheeffectivenessofthedesignandoperationof
ourdisclosurecontrolsandprocedureswasconductedasat

October31,2014,byBankofMontreal’smanagementunderthesuper-

visionoftheCEOandtheCFO.Basedonthisevaluation,theCEOandthe
CFOhaveconcludedthat,asofOctober31,2014,ourdisclosurecontrols

andprocedures,asdefinedinCanadabyNationalInstrument52-109,

CertificationofDisclosureinIssuers’AnnualandInterimFilings,andin

theUnitedStatesbyRule13a-15(e)underthe
SecuritiesExchangeActof
1934(theExchangeAct),areeffective.
InternalControloverFinancialReporting
Internalcontroloverfinancialreportingisdesignedtoprovidereason-

ableassuranceregardingthereliabilityoffinancialreportingandthe

preparationoffinancialstatementsinaccordancewithIFRSandthe
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
73MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
requirementsoftheSecuritiesandExchangeCommission(SEC)inthe
UnitedStates,asapplicable.Managementisresponsibleforestablishing

andmaintainingadequateinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingfor

BankofMontreal.
BankofMontreal’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
includespoliciesandproceduresdesignedtoprovideassurancethat

recordsaremaintainedinreasonabledetailtoaccuratelyandfairly

reflectthetransactionsanddispositionsoftheassetsofBankofMon-

treal;andtoprovidereasonableassurancethattransactionsare

recordedasnecessarytopermitpreparationofthefinancialstatements

inaccordancewithIFRSandtherequirementsoftheSECintheUnited

States,asapplicable,receiptsandexpendituresofBankofMontrealare

beingmadeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsbymanagementand

directorsofBankofMontreal,andunauthorizedacquisition,useor

dispositionofBankofMontreal’sassetsthatcouldhaveamaterial

effectonthefinancialstatementsarepreventedordetectedinatimely

manner.Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancial
reportingcanprovideonlyreasonableassuranceandmaynotprevent

ordetectmisstatements.Furthermore,projectionsofanyevaluationof

effectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotheriskthatcontrolsmay

becomeinadequatebecauseofchangesinconditions,orthatthe

degreeofcompliancewiththepoliciesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
BankofMontreal’smanagement,underthesupervisionoftheCEO
andtheCFO,hasevaluatedtheeffectivenessofinternalcontrol

overfinancialreportingusingtheframeworkandcriteriaestablishedin

InternalControl–IntegratedFramework
,issuedbytheCommitteeof
SponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommissioninMay2013

(2013COSOFramework).Basedonthisevaluation,managementhas

concludedthatinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingwaseffectiveas

ofOctober31,2014.
AttherequestofBankofMontreal’sAuditandConductReview
Committee,KPMGLLP(Shareholders’Auditors),anindependentregis-

teredpublicaccountingfirm,hasconductedanauditoftheeffectiveness

ofourinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingbasedonthe2013COSO

Framework.Theauditreportconcludesthat,inKPMG’sopinion,Bankof

Montrealmaintained,inallmaterialrespects,effectiveinternalcontrol

overfinancialreportingasofOctober31,2014,inaccordancewiththe

criteriaestablishedinthe2013COSOFramework.Thisauditreport

appearsonpage121.
ChangesinInternalControloverFinancialReporting
Therewerenochangesinourinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingin

fiscal2014thathavemateriallyaffected,orarereasonablylikelyto

materiallyaffect,theadequacyandeffectivenessofourinternalcontrol

overfinancialreporting.
Shareholders’Auditors’ServicesandFees
ReviewofShareholders’Auditors
TheAuditandConductReviewCommittee(ACRC)isresponsibleforthe

appointment,compensationandoversightoftheshareholders’auditors

andconductsanannualassessmentoftheshareholders’auditors’per-

formanceandeffectivenessconsideringfactorssuchasthe:(i)qualityof

servicesprovidedbytheshareholders’auditors’engagementteam

duringtheauditperiod,(ii)relevantqualifications,experienceand

geographicalreachtoserveBMO,(iii)qualityofcommunications

receivedfromtheshareholders’auditors,and(iv)theshareholders’

auditors’independence,objectivityandprofessionalskepticism.
TheBoardbelievesthatithasarobustreviewprocessesinplaceto
monitorauditqualityandoverseetheworkoftheshareholders’auditors

includingtheleadpartner,including:
‰annuallyreviewingtheshareholders’auditors’auditplan,including

consideringtheimpactofbusinessrisksontheauditplanand

assessingthereasonablenessoftheauditfee;
‰monitoringtheexecutionoftheauditplan,withemphasisonthe

morecomplexandriskyareasoftheaudit;
‰reviewingandevaluatingtheauditfindingsincludingincamera

sessions;‰evaluatingauditqualityandperformance,includingrecentCanadian

PublicAccountabilityBoardandPublicCompanyAccountingOversight

Boardinspectionreportsontheshareholders’auditorsandits

peerfirms;
‰reviewingqualificationsofseniorengagementteammemberswith

theshareholders’auditors;
‰solicitingtheopinionofmanagementandthebank’sinternalauditors

ontheperformanceoftheengagementteam;and
‰ataminimum,holdingquarterlymeetingsbetweentheACRCChair

andtheleadauditpartnertodiscussauditissuesindependentlyof

management.Independenceoftheshareholders’auditorsisoverseenbytheACRCin

accordancewiththebank’sAuditorIndependencePolicyasoutlined

below.TheACRCalsoensuresthattheleadauditpartnerrotatesoutof

thatroleafter5consecutiveyearsanddoesnotreturntothatrolefora

further5years.
Pre-ApprovalPoliciesandProcedures
AspartofBMOFinancialGroup’scorporategovernancepractices,the

ACRCoverseestheapplicationofBMO’scorporatepolicylimitingthe

servicesprovidedbytheshareholders’auditorsthatarenotrelatedto

theirroleasauditors.TheACRCpre-approvesthetypesofservices

(“permittedservices”)thatcanbeprovidedbytheshareholders’audi-

torsaswellastheannualauditplan,whichincludesfeesforspecific

typesofservices.Forpermittedservicesthatarenotincludedinthepre-

approvedannualauditplan,confirmationtoproceedwiththeengage-

mentisobtainedandtheservicesarepresentedtotheACRCfor

ratificationatitsnextmeeting.AllservicescomplywithourAuditor

IndependencePolicy,aswellasprofessionalstandardsandsecurities

regulationsgoverningauditorindependence.
Shareholders’Auditors’Fees
AggregatefeespaidtotheShareholders’Auditorsduringthefiscalyears

endedOctober31,2014and2013wereasfollows:
Fees($millions)(1)
20142013Auditfees
17.314.9Audit-relatedfees
(2)1.91.5Taxfees
––Allotherfees
(3)1.21.0Total20.417.4(1)TheclassificationoffeesisbasedonapplicableCanadiansecuritieslawsandU.S.Securities
andExchangeCommissiondefinitions.
(2)Audit-relatedfeesfor2014and2013relatetofeespaidforaccountingadvice,specified
proceduresonourProxyCircularandotherspecifiedprocedures.
(3)Allotherfeesfor2014and2013relateprimarilytofeespaidforreviewsofcompliancewith
regulatoryrequirementsforfinancialinformationandreportsoninternalcontrolsover

servicesprovidedbyvariousBMOFinancialGroupbusinesses.Theyalsoincludecostsof

translationservices.
74BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AEnhancedDisclosureTaskForce
OnOctober29,2012,theEnhancedDisclosureTaskForce(EDTF)oftheFi
nancialStabilityBoardpublisheditsfirstreport,Enhancingthe
RiskDisclosuresofBanks.Wesupporttherecommendationsissued
bytheEDTFfortheprovisionofhigh-quality,transparentrisk
disclosures.DisclosuresrelatedtotheEDTFrecommendationsaredetailedbelow.
General1Presentallrisk-relatedinformationintheAnnualReport,
SupplementaryFinancialInformationandSupplementary

RegulatoryCapitalDisclosure,andprovideanindexfor

easynavigation.
AnnualReport:
Risk-relatedinformationispresentedintheEnterprise-
WideRiskManagementsectiononpages77to105.
AnindexfortheMD&Aisprovidedonpage26.Anindexforthenotes
tothefinancialstatementsisprovidedonpage128.
SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
Anindexisprovidedin
SupplementaryFinancialInformation.
2Definethebank’sriskterminologyandriskmeasuresand
presentkeyparametersused.
AnnualReport:
Specificriskdefinitionsandkeyparameters
underpinningBMO’sriskreportingareprovidedonpages84to105.
Aglossaryoffinancialterms(includingriskterminology)canbefound
onpages190to191.
3Discusstopandemergingrisksforthebank.
AnnualReport:
BMO’stopandemergingrisksarediscussedon
page78.
4Outlineplanstomeetnewkeyregulatoryratiosoncethe
applicablerulesarefinalized.
AnnualReport:
WeoutlineBMO’splanstomeetnewregulatoryratios
onpages65to66(LeverageRatio)and99to100(NetStableFunding
Ratio).RiskGovernance
5Summarizethebank’sriskmanagementorganization,
processes,andkeyfunctions.
AnnualReport:
BMO’sriskmanagementorganization,processesand
keyfunctionsaresummarizedonpages80to84.
6Describethebank’sriskculture.
AnnualReport:
BMO’sriskcultureisdescribedonpage81.
7Describekeyrisksthatarisefromthebank’sbusiness

modelandactivities.
AnnualReport:
AdiagramofBMO’sriskexposurebyoperating
segmentisprovidedonpage68.
8Describetheuseofstresstestingwithinthebank’srisk

governanceandcapitalframeworks.
AnnualReport:
BMO’sstresstestingprocessisdescribedonpage84.
CapitalAdequacyandRisk-WeightedAssets(RWA)
9ProvideminimumPillar1capitalrequirements.
AnnualReport:
BaselIIIPillar1capitalrequirementsaredescribedon
pages64to66.
SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
BaselIIIregulatorycapitalis
disclosedonpage35.
10Summarizeinformationcontainedinthecompositionof
capitaltemplatesadoptedbytheBaselCommittee.
AnnualReport:
AnabridgedversionoftheRegulatoryCapitaltemplate
isprovidedonpage67.
SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
BaselIIIPillar3disclosureis
providedonpages35,36and38.AMainFeaturestemplatecanbe
foundonBMO’swebsiteatwww.bmo.comunderInvestorRelations

andRegulatoryFilings.
11Presentaflowstatementofmovementsinregulatory
capital,includingchangesinCommonEquityTier1,

AdditionalTier1,andTier2capital.
SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
Regulatorycapitalflow
statementisprovidedonpage40.
12Discusscapitalplanningwithinamoregeneraldiscussion

ofmanagement’sstrategicplanning.
AnnualReport:
BMO’scapitalplanningprocessisdiscussedunder
CapitalManagementFrameworkonpage64.
13ProvidegranularinformationtoexplainhowRWArelate

tobusinessactivities.
AnnualReport:
AdiagramofBMO’sriskexposure,includingRWAby
operatingsegment,isprovidedonpage68.
14Presentatableshowingthecapitalrequirementsforeach

methodusedforcalculatingRWA.
AnnualReport:
Regulatorycapitalrequirement,asapercentageof
RWA,isoutlinedonpage65.
Informationaboutsignificantmodelsisprovidedonpages85to86.

SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
AtableshowingRWAby
modelapproachesandbyrisktypeisprovidedonpage38.
15TabulatecreditriskinthebankingbookforBasel
assetclasses.
SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
Wholesaleandretailcredit
exposuresbyinternalratinggradesareprovidedonpage47.
16Presentaflowstatementthatreconcilesmovementsin

RWAbycreditriskandmarketrisk.
SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
RWAflowstatementsare
providedonpage41,withareconciliationonpage37.
17Describethebank’sBaselvalidationandback-testing

process.AnnualReport:
BMO’sBaselvalidationandback-testingprocessis
describedonpage104forcreditandmarketrisk.
SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
AtableshowingExposureat
DefaultandRWAbymodelapproachesandassetclassisprovidedon
page38.Atableshowingestimatedandactuallossparametersis

providedonpage49.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
75MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
Liquidity18Describehowthebankmanagesitspotentialliquidity
needsandtheliquidityreserveheldtomeetthoseneeds.
AnnualReport:
BMO’spotentialliquidityneedsandtheliquidity
reserveheldtomeetthoseneedsaredescribedonpage96.
Funding19Summarizeencumberedandunencumberedassetsina

tablebybalancesheetcategory.
AnnualReport:
AnAssetEncumbrancetableisprovidedonpage98.
Additionalcollateralrequirementintheeventofdowngradesbyrating
agenciesisdisclosedinNote10onpage148ofthefinancial

statements.SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
TheAssetEncumbrancetable
bycurrencyisprovidedonpage34.
20Tabulateconsolidatedtotalassets,liabilitiesand
off-balancesheetcommitmentsbyremainingcontractual

maturity.AnnualReport:
AContractualMaturitytableispresentedinNote32on
pages186to189ofthefinancialstatements.
21Discussthebank’ssourcesoffundinganddescribethe

bank’sfundingstrategy.
AnnualReport:
BMO’ssourcesoffundingandfundingstrategyare
describedonpages98to99.
Atableshowingthecompositionandmaturityofwholesalefundingis
providedonpage99.
MarketRisk
22Provideabreakdownofbalancesheetpositionsinto
tradingandnon-tradingmarketriskmeasures.
AnnualReport:
Atablelinkingbalancesheetitemstomarketrisk
measuresisprovidedonpage94.
23Providequalitativeandquantitativebreakdownsof

significanttradingandnon-tradingmarketriskfactors.
AnnualReport:
Tradingmarketriskexposuresaredescribedand
quantifiedonpages91to93.
Structural(non-trading)marketriskexposuresaredescribedand
quantifiedonpages94to95.
24Describesignificantmarketriskmeasurementmodel
validationproceduresandback-testingandhowtheseare

usedtoenhancetheparametersofthemodel.
AnnualReport:
Marketriskmeasurementmodelvalidationprocedures
andback-testingaredescribedonpage104fortradingmarketriskand
forstructural(non-trading)marketrisk.
25Describetheprimaryriskmanagementtechniques
employedbythebanktomeasureandassesstheriskof

lossbeyondreportedriskmeasures.
AnnualReport:
Theuseofstresstesting,scenarioanalysisand
stressedVaRformarketriskmanagementisdescribedonpages91
to95.
CreditRisk
26Provideinformationaboutthebank’screditriskprofile.
AnnualReport:
InformationaboutBMO’screditriskprofileisprovided
onpages86to87andinNotes4and6onpages136to139and140

to142ofthefinancialstatements,respectively.
SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
Tablesdetailingcreditrisk
informationareprovidedonpages20to29and43to50.
27Describethebank’spoliciesrelatedtoimpairedloansand
renegotiatedloans.
AnnualReport:
Impairedandrenegotiatedloanpoliciesaredescribedin
Note4onpages136and138ofthefinancialstatements,respectively.
28Providereconciliationsofimpairedloansandthe

allowanceforcreditlosses.
AnnualReport:
Continuityschedulesforgrossimpairedloansand
allowanceforcreditlossesareprovidedonpage87andinNote4on
pages137to138ofthefinancialstatements.
29Provideaquantitativeandqualitativeanalysisofthe
bank’scounterpartycreditriskthatarisesfromits

derivativetransactions.
AnnualReport:
Qualitativedisclosuresoncollateralizationagreements
forover-the-counter(OTC)derivativesareprovidedonpage85and
quantitativedisclosuresareprovidedonpage90.
SupplementaryFinancialInformation:
Quantitativedisclosuresfor
OTCderivativesareprovidedonpage32.
30Provideadiscussionofcreditriskmitigation.
AnnualReport:
AdiscussionofBMO’scollateralmanagementis
providedonpages84to85.
OtherRisks
31Describeotherrisksanddiscusshoweachisidentified,
governed,measuredandmanaged.
AnnualReport:
Adiagramillustratingtheriskgovernanceprocessthat
supportsBMO’sriskcultureisprovidedonpage80.
Otherrisksarediscussedonpages101to105.
32Discusspubliclyknownriskeventsrelatedtoother
risks,wherematerialorpotentiallymateriallossevents

haveoccurred.
AnnualReport:
Otherrisksarediscussedonpages101to105.
76BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AEnterprise-WideRiskManagement
SurjitRajpal
ChiefRiskOfficer
BMOFinancialGroup
Asadiversifiedfinancialservicescompanyactiveinprovidingbanking,investment,insurance
andwealthmanagementservices,weareexposedtoavarietyofrisksthatareinherentin

carryingoutourbusinessactivities.Assuch,havingadisciplinedandintegratedapproachto

managingriskisfundamentaltothesuccessofouroperations.Ourriskmanagement

frameworkprovidesindependentriskoversightacrosstheenterpriseandisessentialto

buildingcompetitiveadvantage.
StrengthsandValueDrivers
‰Disciplinedapproachtorisk-taking.
‰Comprehensiveandconsistentriskframeworksthataddressall
risktypes.
‰Riskappetiteandmetricsthatareclearlyarticulatedandfully

integratedintostrategicplanningandtheongoingmanagementof

risk.‰Sustainedmindsetofcontinuousimprovementthatdrivesconsistency

andefficiencyinthemanagementofrisk.
Challenges‰Heightenedpace,volumeandcomplexityofregulatoryrequirements.
‰Balancingriskandreturninanuncertaineconomicandgeopolitical

environment.Priorities‰Continuetoenhanceourriskmanagementinfrastructurewithafocus

oncapitalmanagement,stresstestingandmarketrisk.
‰Increasetheefficiencyandeffectivenessofexistingriskmanagement

processes.‰Strengthenriskculturebyprovidingcomprehensiverisktrainingand

developingenhancedtoolstomonitorandreportrisks.
2014Accomplishments
‰SignificantlyreducedourU.S.impairedloanportfolio.
‰ReceivedapprovaltousetheAdvancedMeasurementApproachto

manageoperationalrisk.
‰Furtherembeddedourriskcultureacrosstheenterprisewiththerota-

tionofmorethan100employeesandexecutivesacrossrisk

managementandtheoperatinggroups.
‰Enhancedourriskappetiteframeworkwithstrongerlinkagesto

strategicplanning,performancemanagementandcompensation.
‰Continuedtodevelopourriskinfrastructuretosupporttheefficiency

andeffectivenessofriskmanagement.
Gross ImpairedLoan Balances* ($ millions)Provision forCredit Losses ($ millions)Total Allowance forCredit Losses* ($ millions)2,6852,9762,5442,1421,9923,1012,449Level of new impaired loanformations was 13% lower year
over year, reflecting decreases in 
the formations in both our 
consumer and commercial
portfolios.20112012
201420132011The total provision for credit losses
was lower year over year, reflecting
lower provisions in Canadian P&C, 
U.S. P&C and the purchased
performing loan portfolio, offset in
part by lower recoveries on the
purchased credit impaired loan
portfolio.20112012
The total allowance for credit
losses increased slightly year over
year and remains adequate.*Excludes allowances relatedto Other Credit Instruments.*Excludes purchased credit impaired loans.201120122014
201320122014
2013Specific allowancesCollective allowanceCollective provisionSpecific provisionsAdjusted specific provisions20142013
Gross impaired loans were 19%lower year over year, reflecting
lower levels in both Canada and
the United States.1,126861,108561(10)2,0485141,2694471,2594441,221Gross Impaired
Loan Formations ($ millions)76134705973573741,360AdjustedresultsinthisEnterprise-WideRiskManagementsectionare
non-GAAPandarediscussedintheNon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
Textandtablespresentedinablue-tintedfontintheEnterprise-WideRiskManagementsectionoftheMD&Aformanintegralpartofthe2014annualcons
olidatedfinan-
cialstatements.TheypresentrequireddisclosuresassetoutbytheInternationalAccountingStandardsBoardinIFRS7,
FinancialInstruments–Disclosures
,whichpermits
cross-referencingbetweenthenotestothefinancialstatementsandtheMD&A.SeeNote1onpage128andNote6onpage140ofthefinancialstatements.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
77MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
OverviewAtBMO,webelievethatriskmanagementiseveryemployee’sresponsi-
bility.Weareguidedbyfivecoreprinciplesthatdriveourapproachto

managingriskacrosstheenterprise.
ApproachtoRiskManagement
‰Understandandmanage.
‰Protectourreputation.
‰Diversify.Limittailrisk.
‰Maintainstrongcapitalandliquidity.
‰Optimizeriskreturn.
Ourintegratedanddisciplinedapproachtoriskmanagementisfunda-

mentaltothesuccessofourbusiness.Allelementsofourrisk

managementframeworkworktogetherinfacilitatingprudentand

measuredrisk-taking,whilestrikinganappropriatebalancebetween

riskandreturn.OurEnterpriseRiskandPortfolioManagement(ERPM)

groupdevelopsourriskappetite,riskpoliciesandlimits,andprovides

independentreviewandoversightacrosstheenterpriseonrisk-related

issuestoachieveprudentandmeasuredrisk-takingthatisintegrated

withourbusinessstrategy.
RisksThatMayAffectFutureResults
TopandEmergingRisksThatMayAffectFutureResults
Weareexposedtoavarietyofcontinuallychangingrisksthathavethe
potentialtoaffectourbusinessandfinancialcondition.Anessential

mandateofourriskmanagementprocessistoproactivelyidentify,

assess,monitorandmanageabroadspectrumoftopandemergingrisks.

Ourtopandemergingriskidentificationprocessconsistsofseveral

forumsfordiscussionwiththeBoard,seniorstaffandbusinessthought

leaders,combiningbothbottom-upandtop-downapproachesto
consideringrisk.Ourassessmentoftopandemergingrisksisusedto
developactionplansandstresstestsofourexposuretocertainevents.
In2014,particularattentionwasgiventothefollowingtopand
emergingrisks:
HeightenedRegulatoryRequirements
Regulatoryrequirementshaveincreasedandcontinuetoincreasesub-

stantiallyandmaymateriallyaltertheprevailingbusinessmodel.Sig-

nificantchangesinlawsandregulationsrelatingtothefinancialservices

industryhavebeenenactedorproposed,whichcanaffectouroper-

ations,posestrategicchallengesandincreasereputationrisk.Regulatory

requirementsforhigherlevelsofcapitalandliquiditymayresultin

higherfinancingcosts,aswellasadditionalinfrastructurecostsrelated

tocompliance.Strategicchallengesmayarisefromtheuneven

implementationofregulationacrossborders.
Tomanageanypotentialbusinessorfinancialimpactofthisrisk,
westayabreastofevolvingregulatorychangesandmonitorregulatory

requirementstoensurethatresourcesareprioritizedappropriately,and

weproactivelyengagewithregulators.
RegulationsandregulatorydevelopmentsarediscussedintheLegal
andRegulatoryRisksectiononpage102.
GeopoliticalRisks
OngoingconflictacrosstheMiddleEast,NorthAfricaandEasternEurope

continuestodestabilizetheseregions,andinEurope,threatensthe

precariouseconomicrecovery.Thesegeopoliticalrisksareathreatto

globaleconomicgrowthandcouldcausesignificantmarketdisruptions.
Wecontinuallyassessourportfolioandbusinessstrategies,and
developcontingencyplansforpossibleadversedevelopments.
FurtherinformationonourdirectandindirectEuropeanexposuresis
providedintheSelectGeographicExposuressectiononpage88.
CyberSecurityRisk
InformationsecurityisintegraltoBMO’sbusinessactivities,brandand

reputation.Givenourpervasiveuseoftheinternetandrelianceon

digitaltechnologies,particularlythemobileandonlinebankingplat-

formsthatserveourcustomers,BMOfacesheightenedinformation

securityrisks,includingthethreatofhacking,identitytheft,corporate

espionage,anddenialofservice,suchaseffortstargetedatcausing
systemfailureandservicedisruption.BMOproactivelymaintainsappro-

priatedefencesandprocedurestoprevent,detect,respondtoand

managecybersecuritythreats.Theseincluderegularbenchmarkingand

reviewofbestpractices,evaluationoftheeffectivenessofourkey

controlsanddevelopmentofnewcontrols,asneeded,andongoing

investmentsinbothtechnologyandhumanresourcestodefendBMO

anditscustomersagainsttheseattacks.BMOalsoworkswithcritical

cybersecurityandsoftwaresupplierstobolsterourinternalresources

andtechnologycapabilitiestoensureBMOremainsresilientintheface

ofanysuchattacksinarapidlyevolvingthreatlandscape.BMOhasnot

experiencedanymaterialbreachesofcybersecurityandhasnotincurred

anymaterialexpenseswithrespecttotheremediationofsuchevents.
CanadianHouseholdDebt
HighlevelsofhouseholddebthaveleftCanadiansvulnerabletoneg-

ativefinancialshocks.Householdshavemoderatedtheirspending,

leadingtoanotableslowingintheexpansionofnon-mortgage

consumercredit.
WecontinuetocloselymonitorandreviewtheCanadianconsumer
loanandcreditcardportfolio.Weapplyprudentandconsistentcredit

underwritingpracticesandcloselymonitorstresstestingunderdifferent

scenarios.Furtherdetailsontheriskratingsystemsappliedtoconsumer
portfolioscanbefoundintheCreditandCounterpartyRisksectionon

page84.
OtherFactorsThatMayAffectFutureResults
GeneralEconomicandMarketConditionsintheCountries
inwhichWeConductBusiness
WeconductbusinessinCanada,theUnitedStatesandanumberofother

countries.Factorssuchasthegeneralhealthofcapitaland/orcredit

markets,includingliquidity,levelofbusinessactivity,volatilityand

stability,couldhaveamaterialimpactonourbusiness.Aswell,interest

rates,foreignexchangerates,consumersavingandspending,housing

prices,consumerborrowingandrepayment,businessinvestment,

governmentspendingandtherateofinflationaffectthebusinessand

economicenvironmentsinwhichweoperate.Therefore,theamountof

businessweconductinaspecificgeographicregionanditslocal

economicandbusinessconditionsmayhaveaneffectonouroverall

revenuesandearnings.Forexample,aregionaleconomicdeclinemay

resultinanincreaseincreditlosses,adecreaseinloangrowthand

reducedcapitalmarketsactivity.Inaddition,thefinancialservices

industryischaracterizedbyinterrelationsamongfinancialservices

companies.Asaresult,defaultsbyotherfinancialservicescompaniesin

Canada,theUnitedStatesorothercountriescouldadverselyaffect

ourearnings.
78BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AFiscal,MonetaryandInterestRatePolicies
Ourearningsareaffectedbyfiscal,monetary,interestrateand

economicpoliciesthatareadoptedbyCanadian,U.S.andotherregu-

latoryauthorities.Suchpoliciescanhavetheeffectofincreasingor

reducingcompetitionanduncertaintyinthemarkets.Suchpoliciesmay

alsoadverselyaffectourcustomersandcounterpartiesinthecountries

inwhichweoperate,contributingtoagreaterriskofdefaultbythese

customersandcounterparties.Aswell,expectationsinthebondand

moneymarketsrelatedtoinflationandcentralbankmonetarypolicy

haveaneffectonthelevelofinterestrates.Changesinmarketexpect-

ationsandmonetarypolicyaredifficulttoanticipateandpredict.

Fluctuationsininterestratesthatresultfromthesechangescanhavean

impactonourearnings.RefertotheMarketRisksectiononpage91for

amorecompletediscussionofourinterestrateriskexposures.Asdis-

cussedinourCriticalAccountingEstimatessection,areductioninincome

taxratescouldlowerthevalueofourdeferredtaxasset.
AcquisitionsandStrategicPlans
Weconductthoroughduediligencebeforecompletinganacquisition.

However,itispossiblethatwecouldmakeanacquisitionthat

subsequentlydoesnotperforminlinewithourfinancialorstrategic

objectives.Ourabilitytosuccessfullycompleteanacquisitionmaybe

subjecttoregulatoryandshareholderapprovalsandwemaynotbeable

todeterminewhenorif,oronwhatterms,thenecessaryapprovalswill

begranted.Changesinthecompetitiveandeconomicenvironment,as

wellasotherfactors,mayresultinlowerrevenues,whilehigherthan

anticipatedintegrationcostsandfailuretorealizeexpectedcostsavings

afteranacquisitioncouldalsoadverselyaffectourearnings.Integration

costsmayincreaseasaresultofhigherregulatorycostsrelatedtoan

acquisition,unanticipatedcoststhatwerenotidentifiedinthedue

diligenceprocessormoresignificantdemandsonmanagementtime

thananticipated,aswellasunexpecteddelaysinimplementingcertain

plansthatinturnleadtodelaysinachievingfullintegration.Ourpost-

acquisitionperformanceisalsocontingentonretainingtheclientsand

keyemployeesofacquiredcompanies,andtherecanbenoassurance

thatwewillalwayssucceedindoingso.
Ourfinancialperformanceisinfluencedbyourabilitytoexecute
strategicplansdevelopedbymanagement.Ifthesestrategicplansdo

notmeetwithsuccessorifthereisachangeinthesestrategicplans,

ourearningscouldgrowataslowerpaceordecline.Inaddition,our

abilitytoexecuteourstrategicplansisdependenttoalargeextenton

ourabilitytoattract,developandretainkeyexecutives,andthereisno

assurancewewillcontinuetobeabletodoso.
LevelofCompetition
Thelevelofcompetitionamongfinancialservicescompaniesishigh.

Furthermore,non-financialcompanieshaveincreasinglybeenoffering

productsandservicestraditionallyprovidedbybanks.Customerloyalty

andretentioncanbeinfluencedbyanumberoffactors,including

servicelevels,pricesforproductsorservices,ourreputationandthe

actionsofourcompetitors.Also,lawsandregulationsenactedbyregu-

latoryauthoritiesintheUnitedStatesandotherjurisdictionsinwhich

weoperatemayprovideadvantagestoourinternationalcompetitors

thatcouldaffectourabilitytocompete.Changesinthesefactorsorany

subsequentlossofmarketsharecouldadverselyaffectourearnings.
CurrencyRates
TheCanadiandollarequivalentsofourrevenues,expenses,assetsand

liabilitiesdenominatedincurrenciesotherthantheCanadiandollarare

subjecttofluctuationsinthevalueoftheCanadiandollarrelativeto

thosecurrencies.ChangesinthevalueoftheCanadiandollarrelativeto
theU.S.dollarmayalsoaffecttheearningsofoursmallbusiness,corpo-

rateandcommercialclientsinCanada.AstrengtheningoftheU.S.dollar

couldincreasethevalueofourrisk-weightedassets,loweringour

capitalratios.RefertotheForeignExchangesectiononpage36,the

Enterprise-WideCapitalManagementsectiononpage64andtheMarket

Risksectiononpage91foramorecompletediscussionofourforeign

exchangeriskexposures.
ChangestoOurCreditRatings
Creditratingsareimportanttoourabilitytoraisebothcapitaland

fundinginordertosupportourbusinessoperations.Maintainingstrong

creditratingsallowsustoaccessthecapitalmarketsatcompetitive

pricing.Shouldourcreditratingsexperienceamaterialdowngrade,our

costsoffundingwouldlikelyincreasesignificantlyandouraccessto

fundingandcapitalthroughcapitalmarketscouldbereduced.Amaterial

downgradeofourratingscouldalsohaveotherconsequences,including

thosesetoutinNote10onpage146ofthefinancialstatements.
OperationalandInfrastructureRisks
Weareexposedtomanyoftheoperationalrisksthatmayhaveasig-

nificantimpactonlargeenterprisesconductingbusinessinmultiple

jurisdictions.Suchrisksincludetheriskoffraudbyemployeesorothers,

unauthorizedtransactionsbyemployees,andoperationalorhuman

error.Giventhehighvolumeoftransactionsweprocessonadailybasis,

certainerrorsmayberepeatedorcompoundedbeforetheyaredis-

coveredandrectified.Shortcomingsorfailuresofourinternalprocesses,

employeesorsystems,orofservicesandproductsprovidedbythird

parties,includinganyofourfinancial,accountingorotherdata

processingsystems,couldleadtofinanciallossanddamagetoour

reputation.Inaddition,despitethecontingencyplanswehaveinplace,

ourabilitytoconductbusinessmaybeadverselyaffectedbyadis-

ruptionintheinfrastructurethatsupportsbothouroperationsandthe

communitiesinwhichwedobusiness,includingbutnotlimitedto

disruptioncausedbypublichealthemergenciesorterroristacts.
LegalProceedings
Wearesubjecttolitigationarisingintheordinarycourseofbusiness.

Theunfavourableresolutionofanysuchlitigationcouldhaveamaterial

adverseeffectonourfinancialresults.Damagetoourreputationcould

alsoresult,harmingourfuturebusinessprospects.Informationabout

certainlegalandregulatoryproceedingswecurrentlyfaceisprovidedin

Note30onpage178ofthefinancialstatements.
CriticalAccountingEstimatesandAccountingStandards
WeprepareourfinancialstatementsinaccordancewithInternational

FinancialReportingStandards(IFRS).ChangesbytheInternational

AccountingStandardsBoardtoIFRSthatgovernthepreparationofour

financialstatementscanbedifficulttoanticipateandmaymaterially

affecthowwerecordandreportourfinancialresults.Significant

accountingpoliciesandfuturechangesinaccountingpoliciesaredis-

cussedinNote1onpage128ofthefinancialstatements.
TheapplicationofIFRSrequiresthatmanagementmakesignificant
judgmentsandestimatesthatcanaffectwhencertainassets,liabilities,

revenuesandexpensesarerecordedinourfinancialstatementsand

theirrecordedvalues.Inmakingthesejudgmentsandestimates,we

relyonthebestinformationavailableatthetime.However,itis

possiblethatcircumstancesmaychangeornewinformationmay

becomeavailable.
Ourfinancialresultswouldbeaffectedintheperiodinwhichany
suchnewinformationorchangeincircumstancesbecameapparent,and

theextentoftheimpactcouldbesignificant.Moreinformationis

includedinthediscussionofCriticalAccountingEstimatesonpage71.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
79MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
AccuracyandCompletenessofCustomerand
CounterpartyInformation
Whendecidingtoextendcreditorenterintoothertransactionswith

customersandcounterparties,wemayrelyoninformationprovidedby

oronbehalfofthosecustomersandcounterparties,includingaudited

financialstatementsandotherfinancialinformation.Wemayalsorely

onrepresentationsmadebycustomersandcounterpartiesthatthe

informationtheyprovideisaccurateandcomplete.Ourfinancial

resultscouldbeadverselyaffectedifthefinancialstatementsorother
financialinformationprovidedbycustomersorcounterpartiesare

materiallymisleading.
Caution
ThisRisksThatMayAffectFutureResultssectionandtheremainderofthisEnterprise-WideRisk

Managementsectioncontainforward-lookingstatements.
OtherfactorsbeyondourcontrolthatmayaffectourfutureresultsarenotedintheCaution
RegardingForward-LookingStatementsonpage29.Wecautionthattheprecedingdiscussionof

risksthatmayaffectfutureresultsisnotexhaustive.
FrameworkandRisks
Risk Culture
RiskGovernance
RiskPrinciplesRisk Appetite
Risk Review
and Approval
RiskMonitoring
Credit and
Counterparty
MarketOperationalBusinessModelStrategicReputation
Liquidity and
Funding
InsuranceLegal and
Regulatory
Environmental
and SocialOurenterprise-wideriskmanagementframeworkconsistsofour

operatingmodelandourriskgovernancestructure,bothofwhichare

underpinnedbyourstrongriskculture.Ourrobustframeworkprovides

forthemanagementofeachindividualrisktype:creditandcounter-

party,market,liquidityandfunding,operational,insurance,legaland
regulatory,business,model,strategic,reputation,andenvironmental

andsocial.
Ourframeworkisanchoredinthethree-lines-of-defenceapproach
tomanagingrisk,whichisfundamentaltoouroperatingmodel,as

describedbelow:
ThreeLinesofDefence
ResponsibilitiesFirstLine
‰Operatinggroups,whichowntheriskin

theiroperations
‰Own,measureandmanageallrisksintheirlinesofbusiness.
‰Identify,monitor,quantifyandreportrisksarisingfromtheiroperatingactivitiesandinitiatives.
‰Establishappropriateinternalcontrolstructuresinaccordancewithourriskmanagement

framework.‰Pursuesuitablebusinessopportunitieswithintheirestablishedriskappetite.
‰Actwithintheirdelegatedrisk-takingauthorityassetoutinestablishedcorporatepolicies.
SecondLine
‰EnterpriseRiskandPortfolioManagement

(ERPM)group
‰CorporateSupportareas
‰Provideindependentoversight,effectivechallengeandindependentassessmentofrisk.
‰Setenterpriseriskmanagementpoliciesandestablishinfrastructure,processesandpractices

thataddressallsignificantrisksacrosstheenterprise.
‰Independentlyassess,quantify,monitor,controlandreportallsignificantrisks.
ThirdLine
‰CorporateAuditDivision
‰Provideindependentassessmentastotheeffectivenessofinternalcontrolwithintheenter-

prise,includingcontrol,riskmanagementandgovernanceprocessesthatsupporttheenterprise,

itsobjectivesandtheBoardofDirectors’dischargeofitsresponsibilities.
80BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ARiskCulture
AtBMO,webelievethatriskmanagementistheresponsibilityofevery
employeewithintheorganization.Thiskeytenetshapesandinfluences

ourriskcultureandisevidentintheactionsandbehavioursofour

employeesandleadersastheyidentify,interpret,discussandmake

choicesanddecisionsbetweenrisksandopportunities.Ourriskcultureis

deeplyrootedandisevidentineveryaspectofhowweoperateacross

theenterprise,includingwithinourpolicies,riskmanagementframe-

works,riskappetiteandtolerances,capitalmanagementand

compensation.Ourriskcultureisgroundedonariskmanagementsystemthat
encouragesopennessandbuildsconfidenceinhowweengagestake-

holdersinkeydecisionsandstrategydiscussions,therebybringing

rigouranddisciplinetodecision-making.Thisnotonlyleadstothe

timelyidentification,escalationandresolutionofissues,butalso

encouragescommunicationandunderstandingofthekeyrisksfacedby

ourorganization,sothatouremployeesareequippedtotakeactionand

makedecisionsinacoordinatedandconsistentmanner.Also,our

governanceandleadershipforums,committeestructuresandlearning

curriculumsreinforceandinspireourriskculture.
Certainelementsofourriskculturethatareembeddedthroughout
theenterpriseinclude:
‰Riskappetite
–promotesanunderstandingofthemostprevalent
risksthatourbusinessesfaceandfacilitatesalignmentofbusiness

strategieswithinthelimitsofourriskappetite,leadingtosound

businessdecision-making.
‰Communicationandescalationchannels
–encouragesinformation
sharingandengagementbetweenERPMandtheoperatinggroups,

leadingtogreatertransparencyandopenandeffectivecommunica-

tion.Wealsofosterandencourageaculturewhereconcernsabout

potentialoremergingrisksareescalatedtoseniormanagementso

thattheycanbeevaluatedandappropriatelyaddressed.
‰Compensationphilosophy
–payisalignedwithprudentrisk-taking
toensurethatcompensationrewardstheappropriateuseofcapital

anddoesnotencourageexcessiverisk-taking.
‰Trainingandeducation
–ourprogramsaredesignedtofosteradeep
understandingofBMO’scapitalandriskmanagementframeworks

acrosstheenterprise,providingemployeesandmanagementwiththe

toolsandawarenesstheyneedtofulfilltheirresponsibilitiesfor

independentoversightregardlessoftheirpositionintheorganization.

OureducationstrategyhasbeendevelopedinpartnershipwithBMO’s

InstituteforLearning,ourriskmanagementprofessionals,external

riskexpertsandteachingprofessionals.
‰Rotationprograms
–two-wayrotationallowsemployeestotransfer
betweenERPMandtheoperatinggroups,therebyeffectivelyembed-

dingourstrongriskcultureacrosstheenterprise.
RiskGovernance
Thefoundationofourenterprise-wideriskmanagementframeworkisa

governancestructurethatincludesarobustcommitteestructureanda

comprehensivesetofcorporatepoliciesandlimits,whichareapproved

bytheBoardofDirectorsoritscommittees,aswellassupportingcorpo-

ratestandardsandoperatingguidelines.Thisenterprise-widerisk

managementframeworkisgovernedthroughahierarchyofcommittees

andindividualresponsibilitiesasoutlinedinthediagrambelow.
Ourriskmanagementframeworkisreviewedonaregularbasisby
theRiskReviewCommitteeoftheBoardofDirectorstoprovideguid-

anceforthegovernanceofourrisk-takingactivities.Ineachofour

operatinggroups,managementmonitorsgovernanceactivities,controls,

andmanagementprocessesandprocedures.Managementalsooversees

theireffectiveoperationwithinouroverallriskmanagementframework.

Individualgovernancecommitteesestablishandmonitorfurtherrisk

managementlimits,consistentwithandsubordinatetotheBoard-

approvedlimits.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
81MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
Enterprise-Wide Risk Management FrameworkBoard of DirectorsRisk Management CommitteeOperating GroupsChief Executive Officer  Corporate Support AreasEnterprise Risk andPortfolio ManagementCorporate Audit DivisionBoard Risk Review CommitteeBalance Sheet andCapital ManagementReputation RiskManagementOperational RiskFirst Line of DefenceSecond Line of DefenceThird Line of DefenceBoard Audit and Conduct ReviewCommitteeBoardofDirectors
isresponsibleforsupervisingthemanagementof
thebusinessandaffairsofBMO.TheBoard,eitherdirectlyorthrough
itscommittees,isresponsibleforoversightinthefollowingareas:

strategicplanning,definingriskappetite,identificationandmanage-

mentofrisk,capitalmanagement,promotingacultureofintegrity,

internalcontrols,successionplanningandevaluationofsenior

management,communication,publicdisclosureandcorporate

governance.RiskReviewCommitteeoftheBoardofDirectors(RRC)
assiststhe
BoardinfulfillingitsoversightresponsibilitiesinrelationtoBMO’s
identificationandmanagementofrisk,adherencetorisk

managementcorporatepoliciesandprocedures,compliancewithrisk-

relatedregulatoryrequirementsandevaluationoftheChiefRisk

Officer.Ourriskmanagementframeworkisreviewedonaregular

basisbytheRRCtoprovideguidanceforthegovernanceofour

risk-takingactivities.
AuditandConductReviewCommitteeoftheBoardofDirectors
assiststheBoardinfulfillingitsoversightresponsibilitiesforthe

integrityofBMO’sfinancialreporting,effectivenessofBMO’sinternal

controlsandperformanceofitsinternalandexternalauditfunctions.
ChiefExecutiveOfficer(CEO)
isdirectlyaccountabletotheBoardfor
allofBMO’srisk-takingactivities.TheCEOissupportedbytheRisk
ManagementCommitteeanditssub-committees,aswellasERPM.
ChiefRiskOfficer(CRO)
reportsdirectlytotheCEOandisheadof
ERPM.TheCROisresponsibleforprovidingindependentreviewand
oversightofenterprise-widerisksandleadershiponriskissues,

developingandmaintainingariskmanagementframeworkand

fosteringastrongriskcultureacrosstheenterprise.
RiskManagementCommittee(RMC)
isBMO’sseniorriskcommittee.
RMCreviewsanddiscussessignificantriskissuesandactionplansthat

ariseinexecutingtheenterprise-widestrategy.RMCprovidesrisk

oversightandgovernanceatthehighestlevelsofmanagement.This

committeeischairedbytheCROandmembershipincludestheCFO.
RMCSub-Committees
haveoversightresponsibilityfortherisk
implicationsandbalancesheetimpactsofmanagementstrategies,
governance,riskmeasurementandcontingencyplanning.RMCandits

sub-committeesprovideoversightoftheprocesseswherebytherisks

assumedacrosstheenterpriseareidentified,measured,monitored

andreportedinaccordancewithpolicyguidelines,andareheldwithin

delegatedlimits.
EnterpriseRiskandPortfolioManagement(ERPM)
providescomprehensiveriskmanagementoversight.Itpromotesconsistency
inriskmanagementpracticesandstandardsacrosstheenterprise.

ERPMfacilitatesadisciplinedapproachtorisk-takinginfulfillingits

responsibilitiesforindependenttransactionalapprovalandportfolio

management,policyformulation,riskreporting,stresstesting,model-

ling,vettingandriskeducation.Thisapproachseekstomeetenter-

priseobjectivesandtoensurethatrisksassumedareconsistentwith

BMO’sriskappetite.
OperatingGroups
areresponsibleformanagingriskwithintheir
respectiveareas.Theyexercisebusinessjudgmentandseektoensure
thatpolicies,processesandinternalcontrolsareinplaceandthat

significantriskissuesareappropriatelyescalatedtoERPM.Individual

governancecommitteesestablishandmonitorfurtherriskmanage-

mentlimitsthatareconsistentwithandsubordinatetotheBoard-

approvedlimits.
RiskPrinciples
Risk-takingandriskmanagementactivitiesacrosstheenterpriseare

guidedbythefollowingprinciples:
‰ERPMprovidesindependentoversightofrisk-takingactivitiesacross

theenterprise;
‰managementofriskisaresponsibilityatalllevelsoftheorganization,

andemploysthethree-lines-of-defenceapproach;
‰ERPMmonitorsourriskmanagementframeworktoensurethatour

riskprofileismaintainedwithinourestablishedriskappetiteand

supportedwithadequatecapital;
‰allmaterialriskstowhichtheenterpriseisexposedareidentified,

measured,managed,monitoredandreported;
‰decision-makingisbasedonaclearunderstandingofrisk,accom-

paniedbyrobustmetricsandanalysis;and
‰EconomicCapitalisusedtomeasureandaggregateriskacrossallrisk

typesandlinesofbusinesstofacilitatetheincorporationofriskinto

themeasurementofbusinessreturns.
82BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ARiskAppetite
OurRiskAppetiteFrameworkconsistsofourRiskAppetiteStatement,as
wellasallsupportingkeyriskmetricsandcorporatepoliciesandstan-

dards,includinglimits.Ourriskappetitedefinestheamountofriskthat

BMOiswillingtoassumeforallrisktypes,givenourguidingprinciples

andcapitalcapacity,therebysupportingsoundbusinessinitiativesand

growth.Ourriskappetiteisintegratedintoourstrategicandcapital

planningprocessesandperformancemanagement.Onanannualbasis,

seniormanagementrecommendsourRiskAppetiteStatementandkey

riskmetricsforapprovalbytheRMCandtheRRC.OurRiskAppetite

Statementisarticulatedandappliedconsistentlyacrosstheenterprise.

Amongotherthings,ourriskappetiterequires:
‰thateverythingwedoisguidedbyprinciplesofhonesty,integrityand

respect,aswellashighethicalstandards;
‰onlytakingrisksthataretransparent,understood,measured,moni-

toredandmanaged;
‰maintainingstrongcapitalandliquidityandfundingpositionsthat

meetorexceedregulatoryrequirementsandtheexpectationsof

themarket;
‰subjectingnewproductsandinitiativestoarigorousreviewand

approvalprocessinordertoensureallkeyrisksandreturnsare

understoodandcanbemanagedwithappropriatecontrols;
‰maintainingarobustrecoveryandresolutionframeworkthatenables

aneffectiveandefficientresponseinaseverecrisis;
‰targetinganinvestmentgradecreditratingatalevelthatallows

competitiveaccesstofunding;
‰limitingexposuretolow-frequency,high-severityeventsthatcould

jeopardizeBMO’screditratings,capitalpositionorreputation;
‰incorporatingriskmeasuresintoourperformancemanagement

system;‰maintainingeffectivepolicies,procedures,guidelines,compliance

standardsandcontrols,trainingandmanagementthatguidethe

businesspracticesandrisk-takingactivitiesofallemployeesto

protectBMO’sreputationandadheretoalllegalandregulatory

obligations;and
‰protectingtheassetsofBMOandBMO’sclientsbymaintaininga

systemofstrongoperationalriskcontrols.
RiskLimits
Ourrisklimitsareshapedbyourriskprinciplesandriskappetite,which

alsoinformourbusinessstrategiesanddecisions.Theselimitsare

reviewedandapprovedbytheBoardofDirectorsand/ormanagement

committeesandinclude:
‰CreditandCounterpartyRisk–limitsoncountry,industry,portfolio/

productsegments,andgroupandsingle-nameexposures;
‰MarketRisk–limitsoneconomicvalueandearningsexposuresto

stressscenarios;
‰LiquidityandFundingRisk–limitsonminimumlevelsofliquidassets

andmaximumlevelsofassetpledgingandwholesalefunding,aswell

asguidelinesapprovedbyseniormanagementrelatedtoliability

diversification,financialcondition,andcreditandliquidityexposure

appetite;and
‰InsuranceRisk–limitsonpolicyexposureandreinsurance

arrangements.TheBoardofDirectors,basedonrecommendationsfromtheRRCand

theRMC,annuallyreviewsandapprovesrisklimitsandinturndelegates

themtotheCEO.TheCEOthendelegatesmorespecificauthoritiestothe

seniorexecutives(firstline-of-defence),whoareresponsibleforthe

managementofriskintheirrespectiveareas,andtheCRO(secondline-

of-defence).Thesedelegatedauthoritiesallowtheofficerstosetrisk

tolerances,approvegeographicandindustrysectorexposurelimits

withindefinedparameters,andestablishunderwritingandinventory

limitsfortradingandinvestmentbankingactivities.Thecriteriawhereby
theseauthoritiesmaybefurtherdelegatedthroughouttheorganization,

aswellastherequirementsrelatingtodocumentation,communication

andmonitoringofdelegatedauthorities,aresetoutincorporatepolicies

andstandards.
RiskReviewandApproval
Riskreviewandapprovalprocessesareestablishedbasedonthenature,

sizeandcomplexityoftherisksinvolved.Generally,thisinvolvesa

formalreviewandapprovalofvariouscategoriesbyeitheranindividual

oracommittee,independentoftheoriginator.Delegatedauthorities

andapprovalsbycategoryareoutlinedbelow.
Portfoliotransactions–
transactionsareapprovedthroughrisk
assessmentprocessesforalltypesoftransactions,whichinclude
operatinggrouprecommendationsandERPMapprovalofcreditrisk,and

transactionalandpositionlimitsformarketrisk.
Structuredtransactions–
newstructuredproductsandtransactions
withsignificantlegal,regulatory,accounting,taxorreputationriskare
reviewedbytheReputationRiskManagementCommitteeortheTrading

ProductsRiskCommittee,asappropriate.
Investmentinitiatives–
documentationofriskassessmentsisfor-
malizedthroughourinvestmentspendingapprovalprocess,whichis
reviewedandapprovedbyCorporateSupportareas.
Newproductsandservices–
policiesandproceduresfortheapproval
ofnewormodifiedproductsandservicesofferedtoourcustomersare
reviewedandapprovedbyCorporateSupportareas,aswellasbyother

seniormanagementcommittees,includingtheOperationalRisk

CommitteeandReputationRiskManagementCommittee,as

appropriate.RiskMonitoring
Enterprise-levelrisktransparencyandmonitoringandtheassociated

reportingarecriticalcomponentsofourriskmanagementframework

andoperatingculturethathelpseniormanagement,committeesand

theBoardofDirectorstoeffectivelyexercisetheirbusinessmanage-

ment,riskmanagementandoversightresponsibilities.Internalreporting

includesasynthesisofkeyrisksandassociatedmetricsthattheorga-

nizationcurrentlyfaces.Thisreportinghighlightsourmostsignificant

risks,includingassessmentsofourtopandemergingrisks,toprovide

theBoardofDirectors,itscommitteesandanyotherappropriateexecu-

tiveandseniormanagementcommitteeswithtimely,actionableand

forward-lookingriskreporting.Thisreportingincludessupportingmetrics

andmaterialtofacilitateassessmentsoftheserisksrelativetoourrisk

appetiteandtherelevantlimitsestablishedwithinourRiskAppetite

Framework.Onaregularbasis,reportingonriskisalsoprovidedtostake-
holders,includingregulators,externalratingagenciesandourshare-

holders,aswellastoothersintheinvestmentcommunity.
Risk-BasedCapitalAssessment
Twomeasuresofrisk-basedcapitalareusedbyBMO:EconomicCapital

andRegulatoryCapital.Bothareaggregatemeasuresoftheriskthatwe

takeoninpursuitofourfinancialtargets.Ouroperatingmodelprovides

forthedirectmanagementofeachtypeofrisk,aswellasthemanage-

mentofallonanintegratedbasis.EconomicCapitalisourinternal

assessmentoftherisksunderlyingBMO’sbusinessactivities.Itrepre-

sentsmanagement’sestimateofthelikelymagnitudeofeconomic

lossesthatcouldoccurifadversesituationsarise,andallowsreturnsto

bemeasuredonabasisthatconsiderstherisksundertaken.Economic

Capitaliscalculatedforvarioustypesofrisk–credit,market(tradingand

non-trading),operationalandbusiness–withmeasuresthatarebased

onatimehorizonofoneyear.Measuringtheeconomicprofitabilityof

transactionsorportfoliosincorporatesacombinationofbothexpected
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
83MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
andunexpectedlossestoassesstheextentandcorrelationofrisk
beforeauthorizingnewexposures.EconomicCapitalmethodsandmodel

inputsarereviewedand/orrecalibratedonanannualbasis,asappli-

cable.OurEconomicCapitalmodelsprovideaforward-lookingestimate

ofthedifferencebetweenourmaximumpotentiallossineconomic(or

market)valueandourexpectedloss,measuredoveraspecifiedtime

intervalandusingadefinedconfidencelevel.Bothexpectedand

unexpectedlossmeasuresforatransactionoraportfolioreflectcurrent

marketconditionsandcreditquality.
StressTesting
Stresstestingisakeyelementofourriskandcapitalmanagement

frameworks.Itislinkedtoourriskappetiteandinformsourstrategy,

businessplanninganddecision-makingprocesses.
Governanceofthestresstestingframeworkresideswithsenior
management,includingtheEnterpriseStressTestingSteering

Committee.Thiscommitteeiscomprisedofbusiness,riskandfinance

executivesandisaccountabletotheRMCfortheoversightofBMO’s

stresstestingframeworkandforreviewingandchallengingstresstest

results.Stresstestingandenterprise-widescenariosassociatedwiththe

InternalCapitalAdequacyAssessmentProcess(ICAAP),including

recommendedactionsthattheorganizationwouldlikelytaketo

managetheimpactofthestressevent,arepresentedtosenior

managementandtheBoardofDirectors.Stresstestingassociatedwith

theComprehensiveCapitalAnalysisandReview(CCAR)andthemid-

yearDodd-FrankCapitalStressTest(DFAST)–whichareU.S.regulatory

requirementsforBMOFinancialCorp.–issimilarlygoverned.
EnterpriseStressTesting

Enterprisestresstestingsupportsourinternalcapitaladequacyassess-

mentandtarget-settingthroughanalysisofthepotentialeffectsof

low-frequency,high-severityeventsonourbalancesheet,earnings,

liquidityandcapitalpositions.Scenarioselectionisamulti-stepprocess

thatconsiderstheenterprise’smaterialandidiosyncraticrisksandthe

potentialimpactofneworemergingrisksonourriskprofile,aswellas

themacroeconomicenvironment.Scenariosmaybedefinedbysenior

management,theBoardofDirectorsorregulators,andaredevelopedin

conjunctionwiththeEconomicsgroup.TheEconomicsgrouptranslates

thescenariosintomacroeconomicandmarketvariablesthatincludebut

arenotlimitedtoGDPgrowth,yieldcurveestimates,unemployment,

housingstarts,realestateprices,stockindexgrowthandchangesin

corporateprofits.Thescenariosarethenexecutedbyouroperating,risk

andfinancegroups.
Quantitativemodelsandqualitativeapproachesareutilizedto
assesstheimpactofchangesinthemacroeconomicenvironmentonour

incomestatementandbalancesheetandtheresilienceofourcapital

overaforecasthorizon.Stresstestresults,includingmitigatingactions,

arebenchmarkedandchallengedbyrelevantbusinessunitsandsenior

management,includingtheEnterpriseStressTestingSteering

Committee.AdHocStressTesting
Throughourstresstestingframework,weembedstresstestinginour

strategy,businessplanninganddecision-making.Adhocstresstestingis

conductedregularlybyouroperatingandriskgroupstosupportrisk

identification,businessanalysisandstrategicdecision-making.
CreditandCounterpartyRisk
Creditandcounterpartyrisk
isthepotentialforlossduetothe
failureofaborrower,endorser,guarantororcounterpartytorepay

aloanorhonouranotherpredeterminedfinancialobligation.
CreditandcounterpartyriskexistsineverylendingactivitythatBMO

entersinto,aswellasinthetransactingoftradingandothercapital

marketsproducts,theholdingofinvestmentsecuritiesandtheactivities

relatedtosecuritization.Creditriskisthemostsignificantmeasurable

riskBMOfaces.Propermanagementofcreditriskisessentialtoour

success,sincethefailuretoeffectivelymanagecreditriskcouldhavean

immediateandsignificantimpactonourearnings,financialcondition

andreputation.
CreditandCounterpartyRiskGovernance
Theobjectiveofourcreditriskmanagementframeworkistoensureall

materialcreditriskstowhichtheenterpriseisexposedareidentified,
measured,managed,monitoredandreported.TheRRChasoversightof
themanagementofallrisksfacedbytheenterprise,includingthecredit

riskmanagementframework.BMO’screditriskmanagementframework
incorporatesgoverningprinciplesdefinedinaseriesofcorporatepolicies
andstandards,whichflowthroughtomorespecificguidelinesand

procedures.Thesearereviewedonaregularbasisandmodifiedwhen

necessarytokeepthemcurrentandconsistentwithBMO’sriskappetite.

Thestructure,limits,collateralrequirements,ongoingmanagement,

monitoringandreportingofourcreditexposuresareallgovernedby

thesecreditriskmanagementprinciples.
Lendingofficersintheoperatinggroupsareaccountablefor
recommendingcreditdecisionsbasedonthecompletionofappropriate

duediligence,andtheyassumeownershipoftherisks.Creditofficersin

ERPMapprovecreditdecisionsandareaccountableforprovidingan

objectiveassessmentoflendingdecisionsandindependentoversightof

therisksassumedbythelendingofficers.Alloftheseexperiencedand
skilledindividualsaresubjecttoarigorouslendingqualificationprocess

andoperateinadisciplinedenvironmentwithcleardelegationof

decision-makingauthority,includingindividuallydelegatedlending

limits,allofwhicharereviewedannually.Creditdecision-makingis

conductedatthemanagementlevelappropriatetothesizeandriskof

eachtransactioninaccordancewithcomprehensivecorporatepolicies,

standardsandproceduresgoverningtheconductofcreditriskactivities.

CorporateAuditDivisionreviewsandtestsmanagementprocesses

andcontrolsandsamplescredittransactionsforadherencetocredit

termsandconditions,aswellastogoverningpolicies,standardsand

procedures.Allcreditriskexposuresaresubjecttoregularmonitoring.Per-
formingaccountsarereviewedonaregularbasis,withmostcommercial

andcorporateaccountsreviewedatleastannually.Thefrequencyof

reviewincreasesinaccordancewiththelikelihoodandsizeofpotential

creditlosses,withdeterioratinghigher-risksituationsreferredtospeci-

alizedaccountmanagementgroupsforcloserattention,whenappro-

priate.Inaddition,regularportfolioandsectorreviewsarecarriedout,

includingstresstestingandscenarioanalysisbasedoncurrent,emerging

orprospectiverisks.ReportingisprovidedatleastquarterlytotheBoard

andseniormanagementcommittees,inordertokeeptheminformedof

developmentsinourcreditriskportfolios,includingchangesincreditrisk

concentrationsandsignificantemergingcreditriskissues,andtoensure

appropriateactionscanbetakenwherenecessary.
CreditandCounterpartyRiskManagement
CollateralManagement

Collateralisusedforcreditriskmitigationpurposesandminimizes

lossesthatwouldotherwisebeincurred.Dependingonthetypeof

borrower,theassetsavailableandthestructureandtermofthecredit

obligations,collateralcantakevariousforms.Forcorporateand
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
84BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&Acommercialborrowers,collateralcantaketheformofpledgesofthe
assetsofabusiness,suchasaccountsreceivable,inventory,machinery

andrealestate,orpersonalassetspledgedinsupportofguarantees.On

anongoingbasis,collateralissubjecttoregularrevaluationspecificto

assettype.
Forloans,collateralvaluesareinitiallyestablishedatthetimeof
origination,andthefrequencyofrevaluationisdependentonthetype

ofcollateral.CreditofficersinERPMprovideindependentoversightof

collateraldocumentationandvaluation.Forinvestor-ownedcommercial

realestate,afullexternalappraisalofthepropertyisobtainedatthe

timeofloanorigination,exceptwheretheloanisbelowaspecified

thresholdamount,inwhichcaseaninternalevaluationandasite

inspectionarecompleted.Internalevaluationmethodsmayconsidertax

assessments,purchaseprice,realestatelistingorrealtoropinion.The

caseforanupdatedappraisalisreviewedannually,withconsideration

giventotheborrowerriskrating,existingtenantsandleasecontracts,

aswellascurrentmarketconditions.Intheeventaloanisclassifiedas

impaired,dependingonitssize,acurrentexternalappraisal,evaluation

orrestricteduseappraisalisobtainedandupdatedevery12months

whiletheloanisclassifiedasimpaired.Forresidentialrealestatethat

hasaloan-to-value(LTV)ratiooflessthan80%,anexternalproperty

appraisalisroutinelyobtainedatthetimeofloanorigination.Incertain

lowLTVratiocases,BMOmayuseanexternalserviceprovidedby

CanadaMortgageandHousingCorporationtoassistindeterminingifa

fullpropertyappraisalisrequired.ForhighLTVratio(greaterthan80%)

insuredmortgages,BMOreliesonthepropertyvaluationasdetermined

bythedefaultinsurerbaseduponinformationsuppliedbyBMO.
Collateralforourtradingproductsisprimarilycomprisedofcashand
high-qualityliquidsecurities(U.S.andCanadiantreasurysecurities,

U.S.AgencysecuritiesandCanadianprovincialgovernmentsecurities)

thataremonitoredandmarginedonadailybasis.Collateralisobtained

underthecontractualtermsofstandardizedindustrydocumentation.

Withlimitedexceptions,weutilizetheInternationalSwapsand

DerivativesAssociation(ISDA)MasterAgreementwithaCreditSupport

Annex(CSA)includedtodocumentourcollateralizedcontractualtrading

relationshipswithourcounterpartiesforover-the-counter(OTC)

derivatives.CSAsprovidefortheexchangeofcollateralbetweenthe

partieswhereoneparty’sOTCderivativesexposuretotheotherparty

exceedsanagreedamount(threshold).Thepurposeofcollateralization

istomitigatecounterpartycreditrisk.Collateralcanbeexchangedas

initialmarginand/orvariationmargin.CSAscontain,amongother

things,provisionssettingoutacceptablecollateraltypesandhowthey

aretobevalued(discountsareoftenappliedtothemarketvalues),as

wellasthresholds,whetherornotthecollateralcanbere-pledgedby

therecipientandhowinterestistobecalculated.
Todocumentourcontractualtradingrelationshipswithourcounter-
partiesforrepurchasetransactions,weutilizemasterrepurchase

agreementsandforsecuritieslendingtransactions,weutilizemaster

securitieslendingagreements.
PortfolioManagement
BMO’screditriskgovernancepoliciesprovideanacceptablelevelof

diversification.Limitsareinplaceforseveralportfoliodimensions,

includingindustry,specialtysegments(e.g.,hedgefundsandleveraged

lending),country,productandsingle-nameconcentrations.Atyearend,

ourcreditassetsconsistedofawell-diversifiedportfoliocomprisedof

millionsofclients,themajorityofthemconsumersandsmalltomedium-

sizedbusinesses.Ourcreditexposurediversificationmaybesupple-

mentedbythepurchaseorsaleofinsurancethroughguaranteesorcredit

defaultswaps.
CreditandCounterpartyRiskMeasurement
Wequantifycreditriskatboththeindividualborrowerandportfolio

levels.Inordertolimitearningsvolatility,manageexpectedcreditlosses

andminimizeunexpectedlosses,creditriskisassessedandmeasured

usingthefollowingrisk-basedparameters:
ExposureatDefault(EAD)
representsanestimateoftheoutstanding
amountofacreditexposureatthetimeadefaultmayoccur.Foroff-
balancesheetamountsandundrawnamounts,EADincludesanestimateof

anyfurtheramountsthatmaybedrawnatthetimeofdefault.
LossGivenDefault(LGD)
istheamountthatmaynotberecoveredinthe
eventofadefault,presentedasaproportionoftheexposureatdefault.
LGDtakesintoconsiderationtheamountandqualityofanycollateralheld.
ProbabilityofDefault(PD)
representsthelikelihoodthatacreditobliga-
tion(loan)willnotberepaidandwillgointodefaultoveraone-yeartime
horizon.APDisassignedtoeachaccount,basedonthetypeoffacility,the

producttypeandcustomercharacteristics.Thecredithistoryofthe

counterparty/portfolioandthenatureoftheexposurearetakeninto

accountinthedeterminationofaPD.
ExpectedLoss(EL)
isameasurerepresentingthelossthatisexpected
tooccurinthenormalcourseofbusinessinagivenperiodoftime.ELis
calculatedasafunctionofEAD,LGDandPD.
UnderBaselII,therearethreeapproachesavailableforthemeasurement
ofcreditrisk:Standardized,FoundationInternalRatingsBasedand

AdvancedInternalRatingsBased(AIRB).Subjecttoatransitionalfloor

basedontheStandardizedApproach,weapplytheAIRBApproachfor

calculationsofcreditriskinourportfolios,includingportfoliosofour

subsidiaryBMOFinancialCorp.TheStandardizedApproachiscurrently

beingusedformeasurementsrelatedtotheacquiredM&Iportfolio,while

weexecuteonourplantotransitionthisportfoliototheAIRBApproach.
RiskRatingSystems
BMO’sriskratingsystemsaredesignedtoassessandmeasuretherisk

ofanyexposure.Theratingsystemsdifferfortheretail(consumerand

smallbusiness)andwholesale(corporateandcommercial)portfolios.
Creditriskmeasuresarevalidatedandback-testedregularly–
quarterlyinthecaseofretailmodelsandannuallyinthecaseofwhole-

salemodels.
Retail(ConsumerandSmallBusiness)
Theretailportfoliosaremadeupofadiversifiedgroupofindividual

customeraccountsandincluderesidentialmortgages,personalloans,

creditcardsandsmallbusinessloans.Theseloansaremanagedinpools

ofhomogeneousriskexposures.Forthesepools,decisionsupport

systemsaredevelopedusingestablishedstatisticaltechniquesand

expertsystemsforunderwritingandmonitoringpurposes.Adjudication

models,behaviouralscorecards,decisiontreesandexpertknowledge

arecombinedtoproduceoptimalcreditdecisionsinacentralizedand

automatedenvironment.
Theretailriskratingsystemratestheborrower’sriskbasedona
narrowrangeoflikelyexpectedconditions,primarilymorerecentin

nature,includingdelinquency,loan-to-value(LTV)ratioandloanuti-

lizationrate.Productlineswithineachoftheretailriskareasaresepa-

ratelymodelledsotherisk-basedparameterscapturethedistinctnature

ofeachproduct.Afinalsegmentationthensortseachexposurewithina

productlineintohomogeneouspoolsofretailriskthatreflectcommon

risk-basedparameters.Eachpoolisassignedauniquecombinationof

PD,LGDandEADparameters,capturingitssegment-specificcreditrisk.
Theretailriskratingsystemisdesignedtogenerateestimatesof
thevalueofcreditriskparametersasaccuratelyaspossiblebutissub-

jecttouncertainty.Duringthecalibrationprocess,adjustmentsaremade

attheparameterlevelforeachsegmenttoaccountforuncertainty.
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
85MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
Theretailparametersaretestedquarterlyandcalibratedonanannual
basistoincorporateadditionaldatapointsintheparameterestimation

process,ensuringthatthemostrecentexperienceisincorporated.
RetailCreditProbabilityofDefaultBandsbyRiskRating
Riskprofile
Probabilityofdefaultband
Exceptionallylow
0.05%Verylow>0.05%to0.20%
Low>0.20%to0.75%

Medium>0.75%to7.00%

High>7.00%to99.99%

Default100%
Wholesale(CorporateandCommercial)
Withinthewholesaleportfolios,weutilizeanenterprise-wideriskrating

frameworkthatisappliedtoallofoursovereign,bank,corporateand

commercialcounterparties.Onekeyelementofthisframeworkisthe

assignmentofappropriateborrowerriskratings(BRRs)tohelpquantify

potentialcreditrisk.Asuiteofgeneralandsector-specificriskrating

modelshavebeendevelopedwithineachassetclasstocapturethekey

quantitativeandqualitativeriskfactorsassociatedwithborrowersin

differentindustriesandportfolios.Riskratingsareassignedusingthe

appropriateinternalmodel.BRRsareassessedandassignedatloan

inceptionandreviewedatleastannually.Morefrequentreviewsare

performedforborrowerswithhigherriskratings,accountsthattriggera

reviewthrougharatingchangeorthatexperiencecovenantbreaches,

andaccountsrequiringorrequestingchangestofacilities.Theassigned

ratingsaremappedtoaPDoveraone-yeartimehorizon.Ascounter-

partiesmigratebetweenriskratings,thePDassociatedwiththe

counterpartychanges.
BMOemploysamasterscalewith14BRRsabovedefault,andPDs
areassignedtoeachgradewithinanassetclasstoreflectthelong-run

averageofone-yeardefaultrates.PDestimatesarebasedoninternal

defaultexperienceoveraperiodofmorethanfiveyearsthatcoversat

leastonefulleconomiccycle,supplementedbyexternalbenchmarking,

asapplicable.
BMOalsoassignsanLGDestimatetoeachseparatefacilityprovided
toanentityatorigination.LGDestimatesareameasureofthepotential

economiclossforthefacilityiftheentityweretodefaultduringaperiod

ofeconomicdistress.TheLGDestimateprovidesaninversemeasureof

theprotectionfromlossaffordedbytheassignedcollateral,asappli-

cable,andconsidersthesupportingstructuralelementsofthefacility,

includingseniority,marginarrangements,andproductandsectoral

characteristics.LGDmodelshavebeendevelopedforeachassetclass

usinginternaldatathatcoversaperiodofmorethansevenyears,

capturingafulleconomiccycleandaresupplementedbyexternaldata,

whennecessary.
Asdemonstratedinthetablebelow,ourinternalriskratingsystem
correspondsinalogicalmannertothoseoftheexternalratingagencies.
BorrowerRiskRatingScale
BMOratingDescriptionofrisk
Moody’sInvestors

Serviceimplied

equivalentStandard&Poor’s

impliedequivalent
AcceptableI-1toI-3UndoubtedtominimalAaatoAa3AAAtoAA-

I-4toI-5ModestA1toBaa1A+toBBB+

I-6toI-7AverageBaa2toBaa3BBBtoBBB-

S-1toS-2AcceptableBa1toBa2BB+toBB

S-3toS-4MarginalBa3toB1BB-toB+
ProblemP-1DeterioratingB2B

P-2toP-3WatchlistB3toCaB-toCC
Defaultandimpaired
D-1toD-4Default/defaultand
impairedCD
CreditQualityInformation
PortfolioReview
Totalenterprise-wideoutstandingcreditexposureswere$546billionat

October31,2014,comprisedof$331billioninCanada,$184billionin

theUnitedStatesand$31billioninotherjurisdictions.Thisrepresents

anincreaseof$39billionor8%fromtheprioryear.
BMO’sloanbookcontinuestobewelldiversifiedbyindustryand
geographicregionand,consistentwiththeprioryear,theconsumer

portfoliorepresentedthemajorityofloans.Grossloansandacceptances

increasedby$24billionor8%fromtheprioryearto$305billionat

October31,2014.ThegeographicmixofourCanadianandU.S.portfo-

lioswasrelativelyconsistentwiththeprioryear,andrepresented70.0%

and26.3%oftotalloans,respectively,comparedwith72.4%and24.4%

in2013.Theconsumerloanportfoliorepresented56.8%ofthetotal

portfolio,amodestdecreasefrom59.8%in2013.Approximately88%of

theCanadianconsumerportfolioand98%oftheU.S.consumerportfolio

issecured.Businessandgovernmentloansrepresented43.2%ofthe

totalportfolio,amodestincreasefrom40.2%in2013.Ourloanportfolio

iswell-diversifiedbyindustryandwecontinuetoproactivelymonitor

industrysectorsthatweconsiderwarrantcloserattention,including

CanadianconsumerloansandU.S.realestate.
Furtherdetailsonourloanbook,includingdetailedbreakdowns
byindustryandgeographicregion,canbefoundinTables7to15on
pages112to118andinNote6onpage140ofthefinancialstate-

ments.DetailsrelatedtoourcreditexposuresarediscussedinNote4on

page136ofthefinancialstatements.
RealEstateSecuredLending
Residentialmortgageandhomeequitylineofcredit(HELOC)exposures

continuetobeareasofinterestinthecurrentenvironment.BMOregu-

larlyperformsstresstestingonitsresidentialmortgageandHELOC

portfoliostoevaluatethepotentialeffectsofhigh-impactevents.These

stresstestsincorporatemoderatetosevereadversescenarios.Thecredit

lossesforecastinthesetestsvarydependingontheseverityofthe

scenarioandareconsideredtobemanageable.
Since2012,newresidentialrealestatelendingruleshavebeen
introducedforfederallyregulatedlendersinCanada,including

restrictionsonLTVratiosforrevolvingHELOCsandrequirementsrelated

toassessingaborrower’scapacitytoservicedebtobligationsona

timelybasis,aswellasamaximumamortizationof25yearsanda

maximumhomevalueof$1millionforhighLTVratio(greaterthan

80%)insuredmortgages.Theseregulatorychangesresultedinsome

adjustmentstoloanunderwritingpractices,includingreducingthe

maximumLTVratioonrevolvingHELOCsto65%fromtheprevious

maximumof80%.
ProvisionforCreditLosses(PCL)
TotalPCLwas$561millioninthecurrentyear,down4%from

$587millionin2013.DetaileddiscussionofourPCL,includinghistorical

trendsinPCL,isprovidedonpage40,inTable15onpage118andin

Note4onpage136ofthefinancialstatements.
GrossImpairedLoans(GIL)
TotalGILdecreasedby$496millionor19%from2013to$2,048million

in2014,withmostofthedecreaseintheUnitedStates.GILasa

percentageofgrossloansandacceptancesalsodecreasedovertheprior

yearfrom0.91%in2013to0.67%in2014.
FactorscontributingtothechangeinGILareoutlinedinthe
followingtable.Loansclassifiedasimpairedduringtheyeardecreased

from$2,449millionin2013to$2,142millionin2014.Onageographic

basis,theUnitedStatesaccountedforthemajorityofimpairedloan

formations,comprising56.8%oftotalformationsin2014,compared

with64.0%in2013.Furtherdetailsonthebreakdownofimpairedloans

bygeographicregionandindustrycanbefoundonTable11on

page114andinNote4onpage136ofthefinancialstatements.
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
86BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AChangesinGrossImpairedLoansandAcceptances(GIL)
(1)(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
FortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
GIL,beginningofyear
2,5442,9762,685
Classifiedasimpairedduringtheyear
2,1422,4493,101
Transferredtonotimpairedduringtheyear
(669)
(728)(968)
Netrepayments
(1,059)
(1,058)(517)
Amountswritten-off
(801)(939)(1,179)
Disposalsofloans
(220)(343)(197)
Foreignexchangeandothermovements
11118751
GIL,endofyear
2,0482,5442,976
GILasa%ofgrossloansandacceptances
0.670.911.17
(1)GILexcludespurchasedcreditimpairedloans.
AllowanceforCreditLosses(ACL)
Acrossallloanportfolios,BMOemploysadisciplinedapproachtoprovi-

sioningandloanlossevaluation,withthepromptidentificationof

problemloansbeingakeyriskmanagementobjective.BMOmaintains

bothspecificandcollectiveallowancesforcreditlosses.Specificallow-

ancesreducetheaggregatecarryingvalueofcreditassetsforwhich

thereisevidenceofdeteriorationincreditquality.Wealsomaintaina

collectiveallowanceinordertocoveranyimpairmentintheexisting

loanportfoliothatcannotyetbeassociatedwithindividuallyidentified

impairedloans.Ourapproachtoestablishingandmaintainingthecollec-

tiveallowanceisbasedontherequirementsofIFRS,consideringguide-

linesissuedbyourregulator,OSFI.Forthepurposesofcalculatingthe

collectiveallowance,wegrouploansonthebasisofsimilarcreditrisk

characteristics.Ourmethodologyincorporatesbothquantitativeand

qualitativecomponentstodetermineanappropriatelevelforthecollec-

tiveallowance.Thequantitativecomponentmeasureslong-run

expectedlossesbasedonPDandLGDriskparameters.Forcommercial

andcorporateloans,keyfactorsthatdeterminetheincurredbutnot

identifiedlossesincludetheunderlyingriskratingoftheborrower,

industrysector,creditproductandamountandqualityofcollateralheld.

Forconsumerandsmallbusinessloans,exposuresarepooledbasedon

similarriskcharacteristicsandtheincurredlossparametersare

determinedfromthelong-rundefaultandhistoricallossexperienceof

eachpool.Thecollectiveallowanceisadjustedtoreflectqualitative

factorssuchasmanagement’screditjudgmentwithrespecttocurrent

andnear-termmacroeconomicandbusinessconditions,portfolio-

specificconsiderations,creditqualitytrends,changesinlending

practices,modelfactorsandthelevelofnon-performingbalances

(impairedloans)forwhichaspecificallowancehasnotyetbeen

assessed.Wereviewthecollectiveallowanceonaquarterlybasis.
BMOmaintainstheallowanceforcreditlossesatalevelthatwe
consideradequatetoabsorbcredit-relatedlosses.Asat

October31,2014,theACLwas$1,966million,comprisedof

$424millionofspecificallowanceand$1,542millionofcollective

allowance.Thisincludes$50millionofspecificallowanceand

$182millionofcollectiveallowancerelatedtoundrawncommitments

andlettersofcreditthatareconsideredothercreditinstrumentsand

recordedinotherliabilities.TotalACLremainedrelativelystableyear

overyear,decreasingby$4million.Ourcoverageratiosaretrending

positivelywithACLasapercentageofGIL,includingandexcluding

purchasedportfolios,increasingyearoveryear.
Thecollectiveallowanceincreasedby$57millionfrom2013to
$1,542millionin2014duetothestrengtheningU.S.dollar.Thecollec-

tiveallowanceremainsadequateandatyearendrepresented0.83%of

creditrisk-weightedassets,unchangedfrom2013.
FactorscontributingtothechangeinACLareoutlinedinthetable
below.FurtherdetailsonchangesinACLbycountryandportfoliocan

befoundinTables12and13onpage116andinNote4onpage136of

thefinancialstatements.
ChangesinAllowanceforCreditLosses
(1)(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
FortheyearendedOctober31
201420132012
SpecificACL,beginningofyear
485476559
SpecificPCL(chargetoincomestatement)
561597761
Recoveriesofamountswrittenoffin
previousyears
624772846
Write-offs(1,149)(1,297)(1,593)
Foreignexchangeandothermovements
(97)(63)(97)
SpecificACL,endofyear
424485476
CollectiveACL,beginningofyear
1,4851,4601,452
CollectivePCL(chargetoincomestatement)
–(10)3
Foreignexchangeandothermovements
57355
CollectiveACL,endofyear
1,5421,4851,460
TotalACL
1,9661,9701,936
Comprisedof:
Loans1,7341,6651,706
Specificallowanceforother
creditinstruments
504129
Collectiveallowanceforother
creditinstruments
182264201
ACLasa%ofGIL
(2)93.675.864.1
(1)Includesallowancesrelatedtoothercreditinstrumentsthatareincludedinotherliabilities.
(2)Ratioexcludesspecificallowancesforothercreditinstrumentsthatareincludedinother
liabilities.BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
87MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
SelectGeographicExposures
BMO’sgeographicexposureissubjecttoacountryriskmanagement
frameworkthatincorporateseconomicandpoliticalassessments,and

managementofexposurewithinlimitsbasedonproduct,entityandthe

countryofultimaterisk.WecloselymonitorourEuropeanexposure,and

ourriskmanagementprocessesincorporatestresstestswhereappro-

priatetoassessourpotentialrisk.OurexposuretoEuropeancountries,

asatOctober31,2014,includingGreece,Ireland,Italy,Portugaland

Spain(GIIPS),issetoutinthetablesthatfollow.
Thetablebelowoutlinestotalnetportfolioexposuresforfunded
lending,securities(inclusiveofcreditdefaultswap(CDS)activity),repo-

styletransactionsandderivatives.Fundedlendingisfurtherbroken

downbycounterpartytype,aswellasbytotalcommitmentscompared

tothefundedamount,inthetableonpage89.
EuropeanExposurebyCountryandCounterparty
(9)(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31,2014
Fundedlending(1)
Securities(2)(8)Repo-styletransactionsandderivatives(3)(4)Total
CountryTotalBankCorporateSovereignTotalBankCorporateSovereignTotal
NetexposureGIIPSGreece––––––––––
Ireland(5)8––––422–4452
Italy69––––55–1079
Portugal–––––1––11
Spain52––––7––759
Total–GIIPS
129––––557–62191
Eurozone(excludingGIIPS)

France26–156479205––205310
Germany85–241,3011,32552––521,462
Netherlands2397118113832781–791,150
Finland–––394394––––394
Other(6)201–6–64448799306
Total–Eurozone(excludingGIIPS)
551711531,8722,6363794974353,622
RestofEurope

Denmark12577–322899––––911
Norway151,281––1,28128––281,324
RussianFederation
330––––––––330
Sweden93299–123111––1405
Switzerland2151––1199––199415
UnitedKingdom
49796442033434861425021,342
Other(6)––––––––––
Total–RestofEurope
1,1622,254445372,8357141427304,727
Total–AllofEurope
(7)1,8422,965972,4095,4711,1487091,2278,540
AsatOctober31,2013
Fundedlending(1)
Securities(2)Repo-styletransactionsandderivatives(3)(4)Total
CountryTotalBankCorporateSovereignTotalBankCorporateSovereignTotal
NetexposureTotal–GIIPS
79––––52–786
Total–Eurozone(excludingGIIPS)
462626422,1112,779113611203,361
Total–RestofEurope
9562,058406742,77215319–1723,900
Total–AllofEurope
(7)1,4972,684822,7855,5512712712997,347
(1)Fundedlendingincludesloans(primarilytradefinance).
(2)Securitiesincludecashproducts,insuranceinvestmentsandtradedcredit.

(3)Repo-styletransactionsareprimarilywithbankcounterpartiesforwhichBMOholds
collateral($15billionforEuropeasatOctober31,2014).
(4)Derivativesamountsaremarked-to-market,incorporatingtransactionnettingand,for
counterpartieswhereaCreditSupportAnnexisineffect,collateraloffsets.
(5)DoesnotincludeIrishsubsidiaryreserveswearerequiredtomaintainwiththeIrishCentral
Bankof$76millionasatOctober31,2014.
(6)Includescountrieswithlessthan$300millionnetexposure.

(7)OfourtotalnetdirectexposuretoEurope,approximately89%wastocounterpartiesin
countrieswitharatingofAaa/AAAfromatleastoneofMoody’sandS&P.
(8)BMO’stotalnetnotionalCDSexposure(embeddedaspartofthesecuritiesexposuretable)
toEuropewas$555million,withnonetsingle-name*CDSexposuretoGIIPScountriesasat

October31,2014(*includesanetpositionof$254million(boughtprotection)onaCDS

Index,ofwhich20%iscomprisedofGIIPSdomiciledentities).
(9)BMOhasthefollowingindirectexposurestoEuropeasatOctober31,2014:
–Collateralof
€571milliontosupporttradingactivityinsecurities(
€27millionfromGIIPS)
and€127millionofcashcollateralbeingheld.
–Guaranteesof$986million($8milliontoGIIPS).
88BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AEuropeanLendingExposurebyCountryandCounterparty
(9)(Canadian$inmillions)
Lending(1)
FundedlendingasatOctober31,2014AsatOctober31,2014AsatOctober31,2013
CountryBankCorporateSovereignCommitmentsFundedCommitmentsFunded
GIIPSGreece–––––––

Ireland(5)–8–1038
––
Italy69––6969
22
Portugal–––––
––
Spain52––6252
7777
Total–GIIPS
1218–234129
7979
Eurozone(excludingGIIPS)

France26––7826
2222
Germany796–9985
2121
Netherlands30209
–559239
338163
Finland–––––
––
Other(6)15843
–439201
421256
Total–Eurozone(excludingGIIPS)
293258
–1,175551
802462
RestofEurope

Denmark12––1212
1515
Norway15––1515
1616
RussianFederation
30228
–330330
476476
Sweden2370
–19893
12164
Switzerland4211
–471215
546163
UnitedKingdom
223274
–701497
485222
Other(6)–––4
5–––
Total–RestofEurope
579583
–1,7721,162
1,659956
Total–AllofEurope
(7)993849
–3,1811,842
2,5401,497
Refertofootnotesinthetableonpage88.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
89MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
DerivativeTransactions
Thefollowingtablerepresentsthenotionalamountsofourover-the-
counter(OTC)derivativecontracts,comprisedofthosewhicharecen-

trallyclearedandsettledthroughadesignatedclearinghouseandthose

whicharenon-centrallycleared.Thenotionalamountsofourderivatives

representtheamounttowhicharateorpriceisappliedinorderto
calculatetheamountofcashthatmustbeexchangedunderthecon-

tract.Notionalamountsdonotrepresentassetsorliabilitiesandthere-

forearenotrecordedinourConsolidatedBalanceSheet.Thefairvalues

ofOTCderivativecontractsarerecordedinourConsolidatedBalance

Sheet.Over-the-CounterDerivatives
(Notionalamounts)
(Canadian$inmillions)
Non-centrallycleared
Centrallycleared
TotalAsatOctober31
201420132014201320142013InterestRateContracts
Swaps814,178
1,084,3691,861,4991,140,4172,675,677
2,224,786Forwardrateagreements
34,71352,137326,771347,614361,484399,751Purchasedoptions
19,26718,283––19,26718,283Writtenoptions
22,95523,020––22,95523,020Totalinterestratecontracts
891,113
1,177,8092,188,2701,488,0313,079,383
2,665,840ForeignExchangeContracts

Cross-currencyswaps
51,61644,834––51,61644,834Cross-currencyinterestrateswaps
279,119255,337––279,119255,337Forwardforeignexchangecontracts
299,480
263,607––299,480263,607Purchasedoptions
31,14810,923––31,14810,923Writtenoptions
36,34413,530––36,34413,530Totalforeignexchangecontracts
697,707588,231––697,707588,231CommodityContracts

Swaps13,55915,122––13,55915,122Purchasedoptions
8,5268,081––8,5268,081Writtenoptions
4,1664,285––4,1664,285Totalcommoditycontracts
26,25127,488––26,25127,488EquityContracts
48,70239,360––48,70239,360CreditDefaultSwaps

Purchased6,5078,5412,2942948,8018,835Written10,23213,0721,75121611,98313,288Totalcreditdefaultswaps
16,73921,6134,04551020,78422,123Total1,680,512
1,854,5012,192,315
1,488,5413,872,827
3,343,04290BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AMarketRisk
Marketrisk
isthepotentialforadversechangesinthevalueofBMO’s
assetsandliabilitiesresultingfromchangesinmarketvariablessuch
asinterestrates,foreignexchangerates,equityandcommodityprices

andtheirimpliedvolatilities,andcreditspreads,aswellastheriskof

creditmigrationanddefault.
BMOincursmarketriskinitstradingandunderwritingactivitiesand
structuralbankingactivities.Theimportanceandmagnitudeofthese

activitiestotheenterprise,alongwiththerelativeuncertaintyofdaily

changestomarketvariables,requireastrongandbalancedmarketrisk

structurethatincorporatesappropriateanddefensiblegovernance,

managementandmeasurement.
TradingandUnderwritingMarketRiskGovernance
Aspartofourenterprise-wideriskmanagementframework,weapply

extensivegovernanceandmanagementprocessestoourmarketrisk-

takingactivities.TheRRChasoversightofthemanagementofmarket

riskandapprovesthemarketriskcorporatepolicy,alongwithlimits

governingmarketriskexposures.TheRMC,whichrecommendsthe

marketriskcorporatepolicyforapproval,regularlyreviewsanddis-

cussessignificantmarketriskissuesandpositionsandprovidessenior

managementoversight.Thesecommitteesareinformedofspecific

exposuresorotherfactorsthatexposeBMOtounusual,unexpected,

inappropriateorotherwisenotfullyidentifiedorquantifiedrisksasso-

ciatedwithmarketortradedcreditexposures,aswellasotherrelevant

marketrisktopics.Inaddition,allindividualsauthorizedtoexecute

tradingandunderwritingactivitiesonbehalfofBMOareappropriately

notifiedofBMO’srisk-takinggovernance,authoritystructure,procedures

andprocesses,aregivenaccesstoandguidanceontherelevantcorpo-

ratepoliciesandstandards,andareexpectedtoadheretothose

standards.TradingandUnderwritingMarketRiskManagement
Wehavestrong,independentriskoversightwithinapolicyframework

thatmandatescomprehensivecontrolsforthemanagementofmarket

risk.Wemonitoranextensiverangeofriskmetrics,includingValueat

Risk,StressedValueatRisk,stressandscenariotests,risksensitivities

andoperationalmetrics.Wehaveacomprehensivesetoflimitsthatare

appliedtothesemetrics,withappropriatemonitoring,reportingand

escalationoflimitbreaches.Riskprofilesofourtradingandunderwriting

activitiesaremaintainedwithinourriskappetite,andaremonitoredand

reportedtotraders,management,seniorexecutivesandBoardcommit-

tees.Furtherkeycontrolsincludetheindependentvaluationoffinancial

assetsandliabilitiesandcompliancewithamodelriskmanagement

frameworktocontrolformodelrisk.
BMO’sMarketRiskgroupalsoprovidesoversightofstructural
marketrisk,whichismanagedbyBMO’sCorporateTreasurygroupand

describedonpage94.
ValuationProductControl
WithintheMarketRiskgroup,theValuationProductControl(VPC)group

isresponsibleforindependentvaluationofalltradingandavailable-for-

sale(AFS)portfolioswithinCapitalMarketsTradingProductsandCorpo-

rateTreasury,toensurethattheyaremateriallyaccurateby:
‰developingandmaintainingvaluationadjustmentpoliciesandproce-

duresinaccordancewithregulatoryrequirementsandIFRS;
‰establishingofficialratesourcesforvaluationofallportfolios;and
‰providinganindependentreviewofportfolioswheretraderpricesare

usedforvaluation.
Tradervaluationsarereviewedtodeterminewhethertheyalignwithan

independentassessmentofthemarketvalueoftheportfolio.Ifthe

valuationdifferenceexceedstheprescribedtolerancethreshold,avalu-

ationadjustmentisrecordedinaccordancewithouraccountingpolicy

andregulatoryrequirements.Priortothefinalmonth-endgeneral

ledgerclose,theValuationOperatingCommittee,composedofkey

stakeholdersfromthelinesofbusiness,MarketRisk,CapitalMarkets

FinanceandtheChiefAccountant’sGroupreviewsallvaluationadjust-

mentsthatareproposedbytheVPCgroup.
TheValuationSteeringCommitteeisBMO’sseniormanagement
valuationcommittee.Itmeetsatleastquarterlytoaddressthemore

challengingmaterialvaluationissuesinBMO’sportfolios,approves

methodologychangesrelatedtovaluationandactsasakeyforumfor

discussingpositionscategorizedasLevel3forfinancialreportingpur-

posesandtheirinherentuncertainty.
Ataminimum,thefollowingareconsideredwhendetermining
appropriatevaluationadjustments:creditvaluationadjustments,

closeoutcosts,uncertainty,fundingvaluationadjustments,andliquidity

andmodelrisk.Also,afairvaluehierarchyisusedtocategorizethe

inputsusedinthevaluationofsecurities,liabilities,derivativeassets

andderivativeliabilities.Level1inputsconsistofquotedmarketprices,

Level2inputsconsistofmodelsthatuseobservablemarketinformation

andLevel3inputsconsistofmodelswithoutobservablemarket

information.DetailsofLevel1,Level2andLevel3fairvaluemeasure-

mentscanbefoundinNote31onpage178ofthefinancialstatements.
TradingandUnderwritingMarketRiskMeasurement
Tocapturethemulti-dimensionalaspectsofmarketriskeffectively,

anumberofmetricsareused,includingVaR,SVaR,stresstesting,

sensitivities,positionconcentrations,marketandnotionalvaluesand

revenuelosses.
ValueatRisk(VaR)
ismeasuredforspecificclassesofriskin
BMO’stradingandunderwritingactivities:interestrate,foreign
exchangerate,creditspreads,equityandcommoditypricesand

theirimpliedvolatilities.Thismeasurecalculatesthemaximumloss

likelytobeexperiencedintheportfolios,measuredata99%con-

fidenceleveloveraspecifiedholdingperiod.
StressedValueatRisk(SVaR)
ismeasuredforspecificclassesof
riskinBMO’stradingandunderwritingactivities:interestrate,
foreignexchangerate,creditspreads,equityandcommodityprices

andtheirimpliedvolatilities,wheremodelinputsarecalibratedto

historicaldatafromaperiodofsignificantfinancialstress.This

measurecalculatesthemaximumlosslikelytobeexperiencedin

theportfolios,measuredata99%confidenceleveloveraspecified

holdingperiod.
Althoughavaluableguidetorisk,VaRshouldalwaysbeviewedinthe
contextofitslimitations.AmongthelimitationsofVaRistheassump-

tionthatallpositionscanbeliquidatedwithintheassignedone-day

holdingperiod(ten-dayholdingperiodforregulatorycalculations),

whichmaynotbethecaseinilliquidmarketconditions,andthathistor-

icaldatacanbeusedasaproxytopredictfuturemarketevents.Gen-

erally,marketliquidityhorizonsarereviewedforsuitabilityandupdated

whereappropriateforrelevantriskmetrics.Scenarioanalysisand

probabilisticstresstestingareperformeddailytodeterminetheimpact

ofunusualand/orunexpectedmarketchangesonourportfolios.As

well,historicalandeventstressesaretestedonaweeklybasis,

includingtestsofscenariossuchasthestockmarketcrashof1987and

thecollapseofLehmanBrothersin2008.
Adhoc
analysesarerunto
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
91MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
examineoursensitivitytolow-frequency,high-severityhypothetical
scenarios.Scenariosareamended,addedordeletedtobetterreflect

changesinunderlyingmarketconditions.Theresultsarereportedtothe

linesofbusiness,RMCandRRConaregularbasis.Stresstestingislim-

itedbythefactthatnotalldownsidescenarioscanbepredictedand

effectivelymodelled.NeitherVaRnorstresstestingshouldbeviewedas

adefinitivepredictorofthemaximumamountoflossesthatcouldoccur

inanyoneday,becausebothmeasuresarecomputedatprescribed

confidencelevelsandtheirresultscouldbeexceededinhighlyvolatile

marketconditions.Onadailybasis,exposuresareaggregatedbylines

ofbusinessandrisktypeandmonitoredagainstdelegatedlimitlevels,

andtheresultsarereportedtotheappropriatestakeholders.BMOhasa

robustgovernanceprocessinplacetoensureadherencetodelegated

marketrisklimits.Amountsexceedingestablishedlimitsarecommuni-

catedtoseniormanagementonatimelybasisforresolutionandappro-

priateaction.
Inaddition,wemeasurethemarketriskfortradingandunder-
writingportfoliosthatmeetregulatorycriteriafortradingbookcapital

treatmentusingtheInternalModelsApproach.Wealsoapplythis

approachinmeasuringthemarketriskforportfoliosthataresubjectto

AFSaccountingrulesunderIFRSandareaccordedbankingbookregu-

latorycapitaltreatment.Fortradingandunderwritingportfolioscovered

bytheInternalModelsApproach,VaRiscomputedusingBMO’sTrading

BookVaRmodel.ThisisaMonteCarloscenariosimulationmodel,and

itsresultsareusedformarketriskmanagementandreportingof

exposures.Themodelcomputesone-dayVaRresultsusinga99%con-

fidencelevelandreflectsthecorrelationsbetweenthedifferentclasses

ofmarketriskfactors.
Weuseavarietyofmethodstoverifytheintegrityofourrisk
models,includingtheapplicationofback-testingagainsthypothetical

losses.Thisprocessassumestherearenochangesinthepreviousday’s

closingpositionsandthenisolatestheeffectsofeachday’sprice

movementsagainstthoseclosingpositions.Modelsarevalidatedby

assessinghowoftenthecalculatedhypotheticallossesexceedtheVaR

measureoveradefinedperiod.Thistestingresultisinlinewith

regulatory-definedexpectationsandconfirmsthereliabilityofour

models.Thecorrelationsandvolatilitydatathatunderpinourmodels

areupdatedmonthly,sothatVaRmeasuresreflectcurrentlevels

ofvolatility.
OurmodelsareusedtodeterminemarketriskEconomicCapitalfor
eachofourlinesofbusinessandtodetermineregulatorycapital.For

capitalcalculationpurposes,longerholdingperiodsand/orhighercon-

fidencelevelsareusedthanareemployedinday-to-dayriskmanage-

ment.Priortouse,modelsaresubjecttoreviewundertheModelRisk
CorporatePolicy&GuidelinesbyourModelRiskValidationgroup.The

ModelRiskCorporatePolicy&Guidelinesoutlineminimumrequirements

fortheidentification,assessment,monitoringandmanagementof

modelsandmodelriskacrosstheenterpriseandaredescribedon

page103.
TotalTradingVaRdecreasedduringtheyearduetoactiveportfolio
rebalancingwithinourequitybooks.TheTotalAFSVaRdecreasewas

theresultofpositionreductionsinanumberofportfoliosandfromthe

impactofparameterrecalibrations.TheincreaseinTotalTradingSVaR

duringtheyearwasattributabletoclientfacilitationactivitiesacrossa

rangeofbusinesses.
TotalTradingValueatRisk(VaR)Summary
(Canadian$inmillions)(1)(3)
20142013Asatorfortheyearended
October31

(pre-tax Canadian equivalent)Year-endAverageHighLow
Year-endCommodityVaR
(0.5)(0.6)(0.9)(0.3)
(0.4)EquityVaR
(3.2)(6.4)(10.6)(3.1)
(6.1)ForeignexchangeVaR
(0.5)(1.2)(3.5)(0.1)
(0.5)InterestrateVaR
(5.8)(6.9)(13.3)(4.1)
(4.6)CreditVaR
(5.5)(5.3)(6.4)(4.5)
(5.0)Diversification7.410.0
nmnm
7.5TotalTradingVaR
(8.1)(10.4)(14.5)(6.5)
(9.1)TotalAFSVaR
(7.9)(11.3)(14.5)(7.7)
(10.1)TotalTradingStressedValueatRisk(SVaR)Summary
(Canadian$inmillions)(2)(3)
20142013Asatorfortheyearended

October31

(pre-tax Canadian equivalent)Year-endAverageHighLow
Year-endCommoditySVaR
(3.2)(4.3)(7.9)(1.8)
(4.7)EquitySVaR
(14.0)(14.8)(38.0)(6.1)
(9.8)ForeignexchangeSVaR
(0.7)(3.6)(11.3)(0.2)
(0.8)InterestrateSVaR
(11.2)(17.0)(30.1)(8.5)
(9.5)CreditSVaR
(13.6)(13.3)(17.5)(11.0)
(11.0)Diversification20.628.4
nmnm
19.9TotalTradingSVaR
(22.1)(24.6)(46.4)(11.5)
(15.9)(1)TotalTradingVaRandAFSVaRaresubjecttotheBMOCapitalMarketstradingmanagement
framework.(2)StressedVaRisproducedweekly.
(3)One-daymeasureusinga99%confidenceinterval.Lossesareinbracketsandbenefitsare
presentedaspositivenumbers.
nm–notmeaningful
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
92BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ATradingNetRevenue
ThechartsbelowpresentdailynetrevenuesversustotaltradingandAFSVaR,alongwitharepresentationofdailynetrevenuedistribution.During
thecurrentyear,thelargestlossoccurredonOctober31,andwastheresultofnormaltradingactivityandvaluationadjustments.Thelargestgain

occurredonSeptember30,andwasprimarilyduetonormaltradingandunderwritingactivity.
Frequency Distribution of Daily Net Revenues November 1, 2013 to October 31, 2014 ($ millions)Daily net revenues (pre-tax)Frequency in number of days
246810
(11)(6)(4)(2)—222426283236
051015
20
253035401214161820
Daily Revenues
Total Trading VaR
Total AFS VaR
(30)(10)10 30 50 Nov 1Oct 31Jul 31Apr 30Jan 31Trading Net Revenues versus 
Value at RiskNovember 1, 2013 to October 31, 2014 ($ millions)
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
93MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
LinkagesbetweenBalanceSheetItemsandMarketRiskDisclosures
ThetablebelowpresentsitemsreportedinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetthataresubjecttomarketrisk,comprisedofbalancesthataresubjectto
tradedriskandnon-tradedriskmeasurementtechniques.
AsatOctober31,2014
AsatOctober31,2013
Subjecttomarketrisk
Subjecttomarketrisk
(Canadian$inmillions)
ConsolidatedBalanceSheet
Tradedrisk(1)Non-tradedrisk(2)Notsubjectto
marketrisk
ConsolidatedBalanceSheet
Tradedrisk(1)
Non-tradedrisk(2)
Notsubjectto
marketrisk
Mainriskfactorsfor

non-tradedrisk

balancesAssetsSubjecttoMarketRisk
Cashandcashequivalents
28,386–28,386–
26,089–26,089–Interestrate
Interestbearingdeposits
withbanks
6,1109305,180–
6,5181,5115,007–Interestrate
SecuritiesTrading85,02278,9976,025–
75,15969,3935,766–Interestrate,
creditspread
Available-for-sale46,966–46,966–
53,710–53,710–Interestrate,
creditspread
Held-to-maturity10,344–10,344–
6,032–6,032–Interestrate
Other987–987–
899–899–Equity
Securitiesborrowedor
purchasedunderresale

agreements53,555–53,555–
39,799–39,799–Interestrate
Loansandacceptances(netof
allowanceforcreditlosses)
303,038–303,038–
279,294–279,294–
Interestrate,

foreignexchange
Derivativeinstruments
32,65531,6271,028–
30,25929,484775–Interestrate,
foreignexchange
Otherassets
21,596–7,78713,809
19,285–7,69211,593Interestrate
TotalAssets
588,659111,554463,29613,809
537,044100,388425,06311,593
LiabilitiesSubjecttoMarketRisk

Deposits393,0887,639385,449–
368,3695,928362,441–Interestrate,
foreignexchange
Derivativeinstruments
33,65732,3101,347–
31,97431,184790–Interestrate,
foreignexchange
Acceptances10,878–10,878–
8,472–8,472–Interestrate
Securitiessoldbutnot
yetpurchased
27,34827,348––
22,44622,446––Interestrate
Securitieslentorsoldunder
repurchaseagreements
39,695–39,695–
28,884–28,884–Interestrate
Otherliabilities
43,676–43,263413
41,724–41,179545Interestrate
Subordinateddebt
4,913–4,913–
3,996–3,996–Interestrate
TotalLiabilities
553,25567,297485,545413
505,86559,558445,762545
(1)PrimarilycomprisedofBMO’sbalancesheetitemsthataresubjecttothetradingandunderwritingriskmanagementframeworkandfairvaluedthrou
ghprofitorloss.
(2)PrimarilycomprisedofBMO’sbalancesheetitemsthataresubjecttothestructuralbalancesheetandinsuranceriskmanagementframework,orareavailable-for-salesecurities.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformtothecurrentyear’spresentation.
Structural(Non-Trading)MarketRisk
Structuralmarketriskiscomprisedofinterestrateriskarisingfromour

bankingactivities(loansanddeposits)andforeignexchangeriskarising

fromourforeigncurrencyoperations.
StructuralMarketRiskGovernance
TheRRChasoversightofthemanagementofstructuralmarketrisk,

annuallyapprovesthestructuralmarketriskstrategyandlimits,and

regularlyreviewsstructuralmarketriskpositions.TheRMCandBalance

SheetandCapitalManagementCommittee(BSCMC)regularlyreview

structuralmarketriskpositionsandprovideseniormanagement

oversight.InadditiontoBoard-approvedlimitsonearningsandeconomic
valueexposure,moregranularmanagementlimitsareinplacetoguide

day-to-daymanagementofthisrisk.BMO’sCorporateTreasurygroupis

responsiblefortheongoingmanagementofstructuralmarketriskacross

theenterprise,withindependentoversightprovidedbytheMarketRisk

group.StructuralMarketRiskMeasurement
InterestRateRisk

Structuralinterestrateriskariseswhenchangesininterestratesaffect

thecashflows,earningsandvaluesofassetsandliabilitiesfromour

bankingactivities.Theobjectiveofstructuralinterestrateriskmanage-

mentistomaintainhigh-qualityearningsandmaximizesustainable

productspreads.
Structuralinterestrateriskisprimarilycomprisedofinterestrate
mismatchriskandproductembeddedoptionrisk.
Interestratemismatchriskariseswhentherearedifferencesinthe
scheduledmaturity,repricingdatesorreferenceratesofassets,

liabilitiesandderivatives.Thenetinterestratemismatch,representing

residualassetsfundedbycommonshareholders’equity,ismanagedto

atargetprofilethroughinterestrateswapsandsecurities.
Productembeddedoptionriskariseswhenproductfeaturesallow
customerstoalterscheduledmaturityorrepricingdates.Product

embeddedoptionsincludeloanprepayment,depositredemptionpriv-

ilegesandcommittedratesonunadvancedmortgages.Product

embeddedoptionsaremanagedtolowrisklevelsthroughadynamic

hedgingprocessorwithpurchasedoptions.
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
94BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AStructuralinterestrateriskismeasuredusingsimulations,earnings
sensitivityandeconomicvaluesensitivityanalysis,stresstestingand
gapanalysis,inadditiontoothertraditionalriskmetrics.
EarningsSensitivity
isameasureoftheimpactofpotential
changesininterestratesontheprojected12-monthafter-taxnet

incomeofaportfolioofassets,liabilitiesandoff-balancesheet

positionsinresponsetoprescribedparallelinterestrate

movements.EconomicValueSensitivity
isameasureoftheimpactofpotential
changesininterestratesonthemarketvalueofaportfolioof
assets,liabilitiesandoff-balancesheetpositionsinresponseto

prescribedparallelinterestratemovements.
Themodelsusedtomeasurestructuralinterestrateriskprojectchanges

ininterestratesandpredicthowcustomerswouldlikelyreacttothe

changes.Forcustomerloansanddepositswithscheduledmaturityand

repricingdates(suchasmortgagesandtermdeposits),ourmodels

measuretheextenttowhichcustomersarelikelytouseembedded

optionstoalterthosescheduledterms.Forcustomerloansanddeposits

withoutscheduledmaturityandrepricingdates(suchascreditcardloans

andchequingaccounts),wemeasureourexposureusingmodelsthat

adjustforelasticityinproductpricin
gandreflecthistoricalandforecasted
trendsinbalances.Thesemodelshavebeendevelopedusingstatistical

analysisandarevalidatedandperiodicallyupdatedthroughregular

modelvetting,back-testingprocessesandongoingdialoguewiththe

linesofbusiness.Modelsdevelopedtopredictcustomerbehaviourare

alsousedinsupportofproductpricing.
Structuralinterestrateearningsandeconomicvaluesensitivityto
animmediateparallelincreaseordecreaseof100and200basispoints

intheyieldcurvearedisclosedinthefollowingtable.Theinterestrate

gappositionisdisclosedinNote19onpage160ofthefinancialstate-

ments.Duringtheyear,economicvalueinterestratesensitivityincreased
andearningsinterestratesensitivitydecreasedprimarilyduetoreduced

short-termassetsensitivityandgrowthincapital.Theasset-liability

profileattheendoftheyearresultsinastructuralearningsbenefitfrom

interestrateincreasesandstructuralearningsexposuretointerestrate

decreases.StructuralBalanceSheetInterestRateSensitivity
(Canadian$inmillions)(1)(2)
AsatOctober31,2014
AsatOctober31,2013
Economicvaluesensitivity(Pre-tax)Earningssensitivityoverthenext
12months
(Aftertax)
Economicvaluesensitivity(Pre-tax)
Earningssensitivityoverthenext
12months
(Aftertax)
100basispointincrease
(715.1)64.7
(503.1)95.4
100basispointdecrease
405.2(62.6)
340.1(90.8)
200basispointincrease
(1,579.4)85.8
(1,078.8)158.1
200basispointdecrease
320.5(68.1)
442.7(113.7)
(1)Lossesareinbracketsandbenefitsarepresentedaspositivenumbers.

(2)ForBMO’sInsurancebusinesses,a100basispointincreaseininterestratesatOctober31,
2014,resultsinanincreaseinearningsaftertaxof$71millionandanincreaseineconomic

valuebeforetaxof$385million($81millionand$335million,respectively,atOctober31,

2013).A100basispointdecreaseininterestratesatOctober31,2014,resultsinadecreasein

earningsaftertaxof$63millionandadecreaseineconomicvaluebeforetaxof$414million

($66millionand$399million,respectively,atOctober31,2013).Theseimpactsarenot

reflectedinthetableabove.
ForeignExchangeRisk
Structuralforeignexchangeriskarisesprimarilyfromtranslationrisk

relatedtothenetinvestmentinourU.S.operationsandfromtrans-

actionriskassociatedwithourU.S.-dollar-denominatednetincome.
Translationriskrepresentstheimpactchangesinforeignexchange
ratescanhaveonBMO’sreportedshareholders’equityandcapital

ratios.WhentheCanadiandollarappreciatesrelativetotheU.S.dollar,

unrealizedtranslationlossesonournetinvestmentinforeignoper-

ations,netofrelatedhedgingactivities,arereportedinothercompre-

hensiveincomeinshareholders’equity.Inaddition,theCanadiandollar

equivalentofU.S.-dollar-denominatedrisk-weightedassetsdecreases.

ThereverseistruewhentheCanadiandollardepreciatesrelativetothe

U.S.dollar.Consequently,wemayhedgeournetinvestmentinforeign

operationstoensuretranslationriskdoesnotmateriallyimpactour

capitalratios.
Transactionriskrepresentstheimpactthatfluctuationsinthe
Canadian/U.S.dollarexchangeratemayhaveontheCanadiandollar

equivalentofBMO’sU.S.-dollar-denominatedresults.Exchangerate

fluctuationswillaffectfutureresultsmeasuredinCanadiandollarsand

theimpactonthoseresultsisafunctionoftheperiodsinwhichrev-

enues,expensesandprovisionsforcreditlossesarise.Hedgingpositions

maybetakentopartiallyoffsetthepre-taxeffectsofCanadian/U.S.

dollarexchangeratefluctuations.Iffutureresultsareconsistentwith

resultsin2014,eachonecentincrease(decrease)intheCanadian/U.S.

dollarexchangeratewouldbeexpectedtoincrease(decrease)adjusted

netincomebeforeincometaxesfortheyearby$10millioninthe

absenceofhedgingtransactions.
LiquidityandFundingRisk
Liquidityandfundingrisk
isthepotentialforlossifBMOisunable
tomeetfinancialcommitmentsinatimelymanneratreasonable

pricesastheyfalldue.Financialcommitmentsincludeliabilitiesto

depositorsandsuppliers,andlending,investmentandpledging

commitments.Managingliquidityandfundingriskisessentialtomaintainingthesafety

andsoundnessoftheenterprise,depositorconfidenceandstabilityin

earnings.ItisBMO’spolicytoensurethatsufficientliquidassetsand

fundingcapacityareavailabletomeetfinancialcommitments,evenin

timesofstress.
LiquidityandFundingRiskGovernance
TheRRChasoversightofliquidityandfundingrisk,annuallyapproves

applicablepolicies,limitsandthecontingencyplan,andregularly

reviewsliquidityandfundingpositions.BMO’sCorporateTreasurygroup

recommendstheLiquidityandFundingRiskManagementFramework

andtherelatedriskappetite,limitsandguidelines,monitorscompliance

withpolicyrequirementsandassessestheimpactofmarketeventson

liquidityrequirementsonanongoingbasis.TheRMCandBSCMCprovide

seniormanagementoversightandalsoreviewanddiscusssignificant

liquidityandfundingpolicies,issuesandactionitemsthatariseinthe

executionofourstrategy.
TheCorporateTreasurygroupandtheoperatinggroupsarerespon-
siblefortheongoingmanagementofliquidityandfundingriskacross

theenterprise.
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
95MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
LiquidityandFundingRiskManagement
BMO’sLiquidityandFundingRiskManagementFrameworkisdefined
andmanagedunderBoard-approvedcorporatepoliciesand

management-approvedstandards.Thesepoliciesandstandardsoutline

keymanagementprinciples,liquidityandfundingmanagementmetrics

andrelatedlimitsandguidelines,aswellasrolesandresponsibilitiesfor

themanagementofliquidityandfundingriskacrosstheenterprise.
BMOhasrobustlimitsandguidelinesinplacetomanageliquidity
andfundingrisk.Limitsestablishtheenterprise-levelriskappetitefor

ourkeyNetLiquidityPosition(NLP)measure,securedandunsecured

fundingappetiteforbothtradingandstructuralactivitiesandriskappe-

titeforenterprisepledgingactivity.Guidelinesestablishmaturity

concentrationtolerances,counterpartyliabilitydiversificationrequire-

mentsandbusinesspledgingactivity.Guidelinesarealsoestablishedfor

thesizeandtypeofuncommittedandcommittedcreditandliquidity

facilitiesthatmaybeoutstandingtoensureliquidityandfundingriskis

appropriatelymanaged.Anenterprise-widecontingencyplanthatwill

facilitateeffectivemanagementintheeventofadisruptionisalsoin

place.Earlywarningindicatorsidentifiedinthecontingencyplanare

regularlymonitoredtoidentifyearlysignsofincreasingliquidityriskin

themarketorrisksspecifictoBMO.
BMOsubsidiariesincluderegulatedandforeignlegalentitiesand
branches,andthereforemovementsoffundsbetweencompaniesinthe

corporategrouparesubjecttotheliquidity,fundingandcapital

adequacyrequirementsofthesubsidiaries,aswellastaxandregulatory

considerationsthatapplytothesubsidiaries.Assuch,liquidityand

fundingpositionsaremanagedonbothaconsolidatedandkeylegal

entitybasis.Liquidityandfundingriskmanagementpoliciesandlimits

areinplaceforkeylegalentitiesthatareinformedbylegalandregu-

latoryrequirementsthatapplytoeachentity,andpositionsareregularly

reviewedatthelegalentityleveltoensurecompliancewithapplicable

requirements.BMOemploysfundtransferpricingandliquiditytransferpricing
practicestoensuretheappropriateeconomicsignalsareprovidedtothe

linesofbusinessforthepricingofproductsforcustomersandtoassess

theperformanceofeachbusiness.Thesepracticescaptureboththecost

offundingassetsandthevalueofdepositsundernormaloperating

conditions,aswellasthecostofsupplementalliquidassetsheldto

supportcontingentliquidityrequirements.
LiquidityandFundingRiskMeasurement
Akeycomponentofliquidityriskmanagementisthemeasurementof

liquidityandcontingentliquidityriskunderstress.BMOusestheNet

LiquidityPosition(NLP)asakeymeasureofliquidityrisk.TheNLP

representstheamountbywhichliquidassetsexceedpotentialfunding

needsunderaseverecombinedenterprise-specificandsystemicstress

scenario.Potentialfundingneedsmayarisefromobligationstorepay

retail,commercialandwholesaledepositsthatarewithdrawnornot

renewed,funddrawdownsonavailablecreditandliquiditylines,or

purchasecollateralforpledgingduetoratingsdowngradesorasaresult

ofmarketvolatility,aswellasfundassetgrowthandstrategicinvest-

ments.Potentialfundingneedsarequantifiedbyapplyingfactorsto

variousbusinessactivitiesbasedonmanagement’sviewoftherelative

liquidityriskofeachactivity.Thesefactorsvarydependingondepositor

classification(e.g.,retail,smallbusiness,non-financialcorporateor

wholesalecounterparties)anddeposittype(e.g.,insured,uninsured,

operationalornon-operationaldeposits)andbycommitmenttype(e.g.,

uncommittedorcommittedcreditorliquidityfacilitiesbycounterparty

type).Thestressscenarioalsoconsidersthetimehorizonoverwhich

liquidassetscanbemonetizedandtherelatedhaircutsthatmayoccur

undermarketstress.Thesefundingneedsareassessedunderseverely
stressedsystemicandenterprise-specificscenariosandacombination

thereof.BMOtargetstomaintainanetliquiditypositionsufficientto

withstandeachscenario.
StresstestingresultsarecomparedagainstBMO’sstatedrisktoler-
anceandareconsideredinmanagementdecisionsonlimitorguideline

settingandinternalliquiditytransferpricing,andtheyalsohelptoshape

thedesignofbusinessplansandcontingencyplans.Theliquidityand

fundingriskframeworkisalsointegratedwithenterprise-widestress

testing.InadditiontotheNLP,weregularlymonitorpositionsagainstthe
limitsandguidelinesnotedintheLiquidityandFundingRiskManage-

mentsectionabove.Thisincludesrequiredregulatorymetricssuchas

theLiquidityCoverageRatio(LCR)andNetCumulativeCashFlow(NCCF).
UnencumberedLiquidAssets
Unencumberedliquidassetsincludehigh-qualityassetsthatare
marketable,canbepledgedassecurityforborrowings,andcanbe

convertedtocashinatimeframethatmeetsourliquidityandfunding

requirements.Liquidassetsareprimarilyheldinourtradingbusinesses,as

wellasinsupplementalliquiditypoolsthataremaintainedforcontingent

liquidityriskmanagementpurposes.Theamountsofliquidityrecognized

fordifferentassetclassesunderourmanagementframeworkaresubject

tohaircutsreflectingmanagement’sviewoftheliquidityvalueofthose

assetsinastressscenario.Liquidassetsinthetradingbusinessesinclude

cashondepositwithcentralbanksandshort-termdepositswithother

financialinstitutions,highly-rateddebtandequitysecuritiesandshort-

termreverserepurchaseagreements.Supplementalliquiditypoolassets

arepredominantlycomprisedofcashondepositwithcentralbanksand

securitiesandshort-termreverserepurchaseagreementsofhighlyrated

CanadianfederalandprovincialandU.S.federalgovernmentandagency

debt.Substantiallyallsupplementalliquiditypoolassetsmeetthe

definitionofliquidassetsunderBaselIII.Approximately75%ofthe

supplementalliquiditypoolisheldattheparentbanklevelinCanadian-

andU.S.-dollar-denominatedassets,withtheremainingsupplemental

liquiditypoolheldinBMOHarrisBankinU.S.-dollar-denominatedassets.

Thesizeofthesupplementalliquiditypoolishighlyintegratedwithour

measurementofcontingentliquidityrisk,asthesizeiscalibratedtomeet

thepotentialfundingneeds,outsideofourtradingbusinesses,ineachof

theparentbankandBMOHarrisBankandachieveBMO’stargetNLPfor

eachentity.Tomeetlocalregulatoryrequirements,certainofourlegal

entitiesmaintaintheirownminimumliquiditypositions.Theremaybe

legalandregulatoryrestrictionsonourabilitytouseliquidassetsheldin

onelegalentitytosupporttheliquidityrequirementsofanotherlegal

entity.Intheordinarycourseofbusiness,BMOmayencumberaportionof
cashandsecuritiesholdingsascollateraltosupporttradingactivities
andparticipationinclearingandpaymentsystemsinCanadaand

abroad.Inaddition,BMOmayreceiveliquidassetsascollateralandmay

re-pledgetheseassetsinexchangeforcashorascollateralfortrading

activities.Netunencumberedliquidassets,definedason-balancesheet

assetssuchasBMO-ownedcashandsecuritiesandsecuritiesborrowed

orpurchasedunderresaleagreements,plusotheroff-balancesheet

eligiblecollateralreceived,lesscollateralencumbered,totalled

$171.0billionatOctober31,2014.Inadditiontoliquidassets,BMO

retainsaccesstotheBankofCanada’semergencylendingassistance

programs,theFederalReserveBankdiscountwindowintheUnited

StatesandEuropeanCentralBankstandbyliquidityfacilities.BMOdoes

notconsidercentralbankfacilitiesasasourceofavailableliquidity

whenassessingitsliquidityposition.
Inadditiontocashandsecuritiesholdings,BMOmayalsopledge
otherassets,includingmortgagesandloans,toraiselong-termsecured

funding.AspartoftheLiquidityandFundingRiskManagementFrame-
work,aPledgingofAssetscorporatepolicyisinplacethatsetsoutthe

frameworkandpledginglimitsforfinancialandnon-financialassets.
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
96BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ABMO’stotalencumberedassetsandunencumberedliquidassetsaresummarizedinthetablebelow.SeeNote30onpage178ofthefinancial
statementsforfurtherinformationonpledgedassets.
LiquidAssets
AsatOctober31,2014
AsatOctober31,
2013(Canadian$inmillions)
Carryingvalue/on-balancesheet
assets(1)Othercashand
securitiesreceived
Totalgross
assets(2)EncumberedassetsNetunencumbered
assets(3)Netunencumbered
assets(3)
Cashandcashequivalents
28,386–28,3861,63726,749
24,878Depositswithotherbanks
6,110–6,110–6,110
6,518Securitiesandsecuritiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresale
agreementsSovereigns/Centralbanks/Multilateraldevelopment
banks92,62615,805108,43166,66141,770
51,249Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralized
mortgageobligations
17,1271,44418,5712,52516,046
10,543Corporatedebt
19,5846,32125,9051,87924,026
19,008Corporateequity
67,53715,66583,20241,60241,600
37,020Totalsecuritiesandsecuritiesborrowedorpurchased
underresaleagreements
196,87439,235236,109112,667123,442
117,820NHAmortgage-backedsecurities(reportedasloans
atamortizedcost)
(4)17,852–17,8523,172
14,68011,425Totalliquidassets
249,22239,235288,457117,476170,981
160,641Othereligibleassetsatcentralbanks(notincludedabove)
(5)109,812–109,8121,008108,804
102,178Undrawncreditlinesgrantedbycentralbanks
–––––
–Totalliquidassetsandothersources
359,03439,235398,269118,484279,785
262,819(1)ThecarryingvaluesoutlinedinthistableareconsistentwiththecarryingvaluesinBMO’sbalancesheetasatOctober31,2014.
(2)Grossassetsincludeon-balancesheetandoff-balancesheetassets.

(3)Netunencumberedliquidassetsaredefinedason-balancesheetassets,suchasBMO-ownedcashandsecuritiesandsecuritiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreements,plusotheroff-
balancesheeteligiblecollateralreceived,lessencumberedassets.
(4)UnderIFRS,NHAmortgage-backedsecuritiesthatincludemortgagesownedbyBMOastheunderlyingcollateralareclassifiedasloans.UnencumberedNHAmortgage-backedsecuritieshaveliquidity
valueandareincludedasliquidassetsunderBMO’sliquidityandfundingmanagementframework.Thisamountisshownasaseparatelineitem,NHAmortgage-backedsecurities.
(5)Representsloanscurrentlylodgedatcentralbanksthatcouldpotentiallybeusedtoaccesscentralbankfunding.Loansavailableforpledgingascollateraldonotincludeothersourcesofadditional
liquiditythatmayberealizedfromtheloanportfolio,includingincrementalsecuritization,coveredbondissuancesandFederalHomeLoanBank(FHLB)advances.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
97MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
AssetEncumbrance
(Canadian$inmillions)
Totalgross
assets(1)Encumbered(2)Netunencumbered
AsatOctober31,2014
Pledgedas
collateralOtherencumberedOtherunencumbered(3)Availableas
collateral(4)Cashanddepositswithotherbanks
34,496–1,63741732,442
Securities(5)253,96179,77836,06110,796127,326
Loansandacceptances
285,18637,0601,965137,357108,804
Otherassets
Derivativeinstruments
32,655––32,655–
Premisesandequipment
2,276––2,276–
Goodwill5,353––5,353–
Intangibleassets
2,052––2,052–
Currenttaxassets
665––665–
Deferredtaxassets
3,019––3,019–
Otherassets
8,231––8,231–
Totalotherassets
54,251––54,251–
Totalassets
627,894116,83839,663202,821268,572
Totalgross
assets(1)
Encumbered(2)Netunencumbered
AsatOctober31,2013
Pledgedas
collateralOtherencumberedOtherunencumbered(3)
Availableas
collateral(4)
Cashanddepositswithotherbanks
32,607–1,211
1,46729,929
Securities(5)217,42764,16824,014
6,815122,430
Loansandacceptances
265,71935,6394,675123,227102,178
Otherassets
Derivativeinstruments
30,259–
–30,259–Premisesandequipment
2,168–
–2,168–Goodwill3,819–
–3,819–Intangibleassets
1,511–
–1,511–Currenttaxassets
1,065–
–1,065–Deferredtaxassets
3,027–
–3,027–Otherassets
7,695–
–7,695–Totalotherassets
49,544–
–49,544–Totalassets
565,29799,80729,900181,053254,537
(1)Grossassetsincludeon-balancesheetandoff-balancesheetassets.
(2)Pledgedascollateralreferstotheportionofon-balancesheetassetsandothercashandsecuritiesreceivedthatispledgedthroughrepurchaseagreements,securitieslent,derivativecontracts,
minimumrequireddepositsatcentralbanksandrequirementsassociatedwithparticipationinclearinghousesandpaymentsystems.Otherencumberedincludesassetswhicharerestrictedfromuse

forlegalorotherreasons,suchasrestrictedcashandshortsales.
(3)OtherunencumberedassetsincludeselectliquidassetholdingsthatmanagementbelievesarenotreadilyavailabletosupportBMO’sliquidityrequirements.Theseincludecashandsecuritiesof
$11.2billionasatOctober31,2014,whichincludesecuritiesheldinBMO’sinsurancesubsidiaryandcreditprotectionvehicle,significantequityinvestments,andcertaininvestmentsheldinour

merchantbankingbusiness.Otherunencumberedassetsalsoincludemortgagesandloansthatmaybesecuritizedtoaccesssecuredfunding.
(4)Loansincludedasavailableascollateralrepresentloanscurrentlylodgedatcentralbanksthatcouldpotentiallybeusedtoaccesscentralbankfunding.Loansavailableforpledgingascollateraldo
notincludeothersourcesofadditionalliquiditythatmayberealizedfromtheloanportfolio,includingincrementalsecuritization,coveredbondissuancesandFHLBadvances.
(5)Includessecurities,securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreementsandNHAmortgage-backedsecurities(reportedasloansatamortizedcost).
FundingStrategy
Ourfundingphilosophyrequiresthatsecuredandunsecuredwholesale

fundingusedtosupportloansandlessliquidassetsislongerterm

(typicallymaturingintwototenyears)tobettermatchthetermto

maturityoftheseassets.Wholesalesecuredandunsecuredfundingfor

liquidtradingassetsisgenerallyshorterterm(maturinginoneyearor

less),isalignedwiththeliquidityoftheassetsbeingfunded,andis

subjecttolimitsonaggregatematuritiesthatarepermittedacross

differenttimeperiods.Supplementalliquiditypoolsarefundedwitha

mixofwholesaletermfunding.
BMOmaintainsalargeandstablebaseofcustomerdepositsthat,in
combinationwithourstrongcapitalbase,isasourceofstrength.It

supportsthemaintenanceofasoundliquiditypositionandreducesour

relianceonwholesalefunding.Customerdepositsincludecoredeposits

andlargerretailandcommercialfixed-ratecustomerdeposits.Customer

depositstotalled$238.7billionattheendoftheyear,upfrom

$220.6billionin2013.BMOalsoreceivesdepositstofacilitatecertain

tradingactivities,receivesnon-marketabledepositsfromcorporateand

institutionalcustomersandissuesstructurednotesprimarilytoretail

investors.Thesedepositstotalled$28.2billionasatOctober31,2014.
20122013
2011Customer Deposits-and-Capital-to-Customer-Loans
Ratio
 (%)Core and Customer Deposits
($ billions)
 Core depositsCustomer depositsOur large customer base and strong capital position reduce our 
reliance on wholesale funding.Core and customer deposits

provide a strong 
funding base.
2011201420132012201498.694.694.517719120521819420422123999.8Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
98BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&ATotalwholesalefundingoutstanding,consistingofnegotiable
marketablesecurities,was$156.4billionatOctober31,2014,with
$35.6billionsourcedassecuredfundingand$120.8billionsourcedas

unsecuredfunding.ThemixandmaturitiesofBMO’swholesaleterm

fundingareoutlinedinthetablebelow.Additionalinformationon

depositmaturitiescanbefoundinNote32onpage186.
BMOmaintainsasizeableportfolioofunencumberedliquidassets,
totalling$171.0billionasatOctober31,2014,thatcanbemonetizedto

meetpotentialfundingrequirements,asdescribedintheUnencumbered

LiquidAssetssectionabove.
Diversificationofourwholesalefundingsourcesisanimportantpart
ofouroverallliquiditymanagementstrategy.BMO’swholesalefunding

activitiesarewelldiversifiedbyjurisdiction,currency,investorsegment,
instrumentandmaturityprofile.BMOmaintainsreadyaccesstolong-

termwholesalefundingthroughvariousborrowingprograms,including

aEuropeanNoteIssuanceProgram,CanadianandU.S.Medium-Term

NotePrograms,CanadianandU.S.mortgagesecuritizations,Canadian

creditcardsecuritizations,coveredbondsandCanadianandU.S.senior

(unsecured)deposits.
BMO’swholesalefundingplanensuressufficientfundingcapacityis
availabletoexecutebusinessstrategies.Thefundingplanconsiders

expectedmaturities,aswellasassetandliabilitygrowthprojectedfor

ourbusinessesinourforecastingandplanningprocess,andassesses

fundingneedsagainstavailablepotentialsources.Thefundingplanis

approvedannuallybytheRRCandisregularlyupdatedthroughoutthe

yeartoincorporateactualresultsandupdatedforecastinformation.
WholesaleFundingMaturities
(1)(Canadian$inmillions)
AsatOctober31,2014
Lessthan
1month
1to3
months3to6
months6to12
monthsSubtotallessthan
1year
1to2
yearsOver2yearsTotal
Depositsfrombanks
(2)7,8854,18767417512,921––12,921
Certificatesofdepositandcommercialpaper
13,34819,55312,9067,21553,022817–53,839
Bearerdepositnotes
1,0371,774152213,047––3,047
Asset-backedcommercialpaper(ABCP)
8668961,105602,927––2,927
Seniorunsecuredmedium-termnotes
–5003,7795,0169,29512,56120,85342,709
Seniorunsecuredstructurednotes
(3)1336215168558491,2571,864
CoveredbondsandSecuritizations
––––––––
Mortgagesecuritizations
–3341,5106012,4452,11012,84417,399
Coveredbonds
–––2,2542,2541,6913,6677,612
Creditcardsecuritizations
––428959371,8802,1945,011
Subordinateddebt
(4)–––322322–6,0916,413
Other(5)––––––2,6772,677
Total23,14927,60620,04616,92787,72819,10849,583156,419
Ofwhich:
––––––––
Secured8661,2302,6573,8108,5635,68121,38235,626
Unsecured22,28326,37617,38913,11779,16513,42728,201120,793
Total(6)23,14927,60620,04616,92787,72819,10849,583156,419
(1)Wholesalefundingexcludesrepotransactionsandbankers’acceptances,whicharedisclosedinthecontractualmaturitytableinNote32ofthefinancialstatements.Wholesalefundingalsoexcludes
ABCPissuedbycertainABCPconduitsthatarenotconsolidatedforfinancialreportingpurposes.
(2)Exceptfordepositsfrombanks,whichprimarilyconsistofbankdepositssourcedtosupporttradingactivities,unsecuredfundingreferstofundingthroughtheissuanceofmarketable,negotiable
securities.(3)Primarilyissuedtonon-institutionalinvestors.

(4)Includescertainsubordinateddebtinstrumentsreportedasdepositsorotherliabilitiesforaccountingpurposes.SubordinateddebtisreportedinthistableinaccordancewithrecommendedEDTF
disclosures.(5)ReferstoFHLBadvances.

(6)TotalwholesalefundingconsistsofCanadian-dollar-denominatedfundingof$53.9billionandU.S.-dollarandotherforeign-denominatedfund
ingof$102.5billionasatOctober31,2014.
RegulatoryDevelopments
In2014,OSFIfinalizeditsLiquidityAdequacyRequirements(LAR)guide-

line.Theguidelineoutlinestheapproachandmethodologyforanumber

ofliquiditymetricsandtoolsthatOSFIwillusetomonitorandassess

theadequacyofCanadianbanks’liquidity,includingtheLiquidity

CoverageRatio(LCR),NetCumulativeCashFlow(NCCF)andothers.

Undertheguideline,CanadianbankswillberequiredtomaintainanLCR

above100%effectiveJanuary1,2015.AsatOctober31,2014,thebank

comfortablyexceedstheLCRminimum.
In2014,theBaselCommitteeonBankingSupervision(BCBS)issued
itsfinalpaperonLCRdisclosurestandardsandOSFIpublishedaLCR

commondisclosuretemplate.Canadianbanksarerequiredtocomply

withthenewdisclosurestandardsbeginninginthesecondquarterof

the2015fiscalyearreportingperiod.
InOctober2014,BCBSpublisheditsfinalNetStableFundingRatio
(NSFR)rules.TheNSFRistheratiooftheavailableamountofstable

funding(oneyearorgreater)totherequiredamountofstablefunding.

BMObelievesOSFIwillengagewiththeindustrytodiscussdomestic

implementationoftheNSFRin2015.TheNSFRiseffective

January1,2018.
Canada’sDepartmentofFinanceissuedforcommentinAugust2014
aConsultationPaperoutliningtheproposedbail-inregimeapplicableto

Canada’sdomesticsystemicallyimportantbanks(D-SIBs),includingBMO.

Theproposedbail-inregimewouldgranttotheGovernmentofCanada

thepowertopermanentlyconvert“eligibleliabilities”oftheD-SIBinto

commonequityandtopermanentlycancelexistingcommonsharesif

certainpreconditionsaremet.Undertheproposedbail-inregime,

eligibleliabilitieswouldconsistonlyofseniorunsecureddebtthatis

issuedaftertheimplementationdateofthebail-inregime,tradableand

transferable,andwithanoriginaltermofover400days.D-SIBswould

besubjecttoaHigherLossAbsorbency(HLA)requirementtobemet

throughthesumofregulatorycapitalandlong-termseniordebtthatis

directlyissuedbytheparentbankofbetween17%and23%ofrisk-

weightedassets(RWA).TheConsultationPaperalsorequestedcom-

mentswithrespecttopotentiallyinstitutingabankholdingcompany

structureinCanadatobettersupporttheregimeforbankresolutions.

CommentsontheConsultationPaperweredueinSeptember2014.
Materialpresentedinablue-tintedfontaboveisanintegralpartofthe2014annualconsolidatedfinancialstatements(seepage77).
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
99MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
InNovember2014,theFinancialStabilityBoard(FSB)issueda
ConsultationPapertoenhancetheloss-absorbingcapacityofglobal
systemicallyimportantbanks(G-SIBs)inresolution.Undertheproposal,

G-SIBswouldberequiredtomaintainTotalLossAbsorbencyCapacity

(TLAC)inexcessofprescribedminimumthresholds.TLACwouldinclude

regulatorycapitalandeligibleliabilitiesthatcanabsorblossesinreso-

lution.TheminimumamountofTLACbankswouldneedtoholdwould

beequalto16%to20%ofRWA(plusapplicableregulatorybuffers)or

twotimestheBaselIIILeverageRatiominimumrequirementof3%.

ConformancewithTLACrequirementswillnotberequiredbeforeJan-

uary1,2019.CommentsontheConsultationPaperaredueinFebruary

2015andaquantitativeimpactstudyisplannedforearly2015.TheFSB

isplanningtofinalizetheproposalinlate2015.
CreditRatings
ThecreditratingsassignedtoBMO’sshort-termandseniorlong-term

debtsecuritiesbyexternalratingagenciesareimportantintheraising

ofbothcapitalandfundingtosupportourbusinessoperations.

Maintainingstrongcreditratingsallowsustoaccessthecapitalmarkets

atcompetitivepricinglevels.Shouldourcreditratingsexperiencea

materialdowngrade,ourcostoffundswouldlikelyincreasesignificantly

andouraccesstofundingandcapitalthroughcapitalmarketscouldbe

reduced.Amaterialdowngradeofourratingscouldhaveadditional
consequences,includingthosesetoutinNote10onpage146ofthe

financialstatements.
ThecreditratingsassignedtoBMO’sseniordebtbyratingagencies
areindicativeofhigh-grade,high-qualityissues.InJune2014,Moody’s

affirmeditslong-termratingsandchangeditsoutlookto“negative”

from“stable”onthesupportedseniordebtanduninsureddepositrat-

ingsofBMOandsixotherlargeCanadianbanksinlightofpreviously

announcedplansbytheCanadianfederalgovernmenttoimplementa

bail-inregimefordomesticsystemicallyimportantbanks.InAugust

2014,S&Paffirmeditslong-termandshort-termissuercreditratingsof

BMOandreviseditsoutlookforBMOandotherCanadianbanksto

“negative”from“stable”,reflectingthepossibleimpactofabail-in

policyproposalfromtheCanadianfederalgovernment.
AsatOctober31,2014
Ratingagency
Short-termdebt
Seniorlong-
termdebt
Subordinateddebt(1)Outlook
Moody’sP-1Aa3A3Negative
S&PA-1A+BBB+Negative
FitchF1+AA-A+Stable
DBRSR-1(high)AAAA(low)Stable
(1)NVCCsubordinateddebtisratedBaa1byMoody’s,BBBbyS&PandA(low)byDBRS.
100BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&AOperationalRisk
Operationalrisk
isthepotentialforlossresultingfrominadequate
orfailedinternalprocessesorsystems,humaninteractionsor
externalevents,butexcludesbusinessrisk.
BMOisexposedtopotentiallossesarisingfromavarietyofoperational

risks,includingprocessfailure,theftandfraud,regulatorynon-

compliance,businessdisruption,informationsecuritybreachesand

exposurerelatedtooutsourcing,aswellasdamagetophysicalassets.

Operationalriskisinherentinallourbusinessactivities,includingthe

processesandcontrolsusedtomanageallrisksweface.Whileopera-

tionalriskcanneverbefullyeliminated,itcanbemanagedtoreduce

exposuretofinancialloss,reputationalharmorregulatorysanctions.
OperationalRiskGovernance
Operationalriskmanagementisgovernedbyarobustcommitteestruc-

turesupportedbyacomprehensivesetofpolicies,standardsand

operatingguidelines.TheOperationalRiskCommittee(ORC),asub-

committeeoftheRMC,isthemaindecision-makingcommitteeforall

operationalriskmanagementmattersandhasresponsibilityforthe

oversightofoperationalriskstrategy,managementandgovernance.

TheORCprovidesadviceandguidancetothelinesofbusinessonopera-

tionalriskassessments,measurementandmitigation,andrelated

monitoringofchangeinitiatives.TheORCalsooverseesthedevelop-

mentofpolicies,standardsandoperatingguidelinesthatgiveeffectto

thegoverningprinciplesoftheOperationalRiskManagementFrame-

work(ORMF).Thesegovernancedocumentsincorporateindustryleading

practicesandarereviewedonaregularbasistoensuretheyarecurrent

andconsistentwithourriskappetite.Wecontinuetoenhancegover-

nancebyincreasingthenumberofCorporateSupportareasthatcan

provideadditionaloversightforspecificoperationalrisks.
Regularreportingandanalysisofourenterpriseoperationalrisk
profiletothevariouscommittees(ORC,RMCandRRC)areimportant

elementsofourORMF.Enterprisereportingprovidesanintegratedview

oftopandemergingrisks,losstrending,capitalconsumption,keyrisk

indicatorsandoperatinggroupportfolioprofiles.Acriticalaspectofthis

reportingisthequalityofunderlyingsourcesandsystems.Timelyand

comprehensiveoperationalriskreportingenhancesrisktransparency

andfacilitatestheproactivemanagementofoperationalriskexposures.
Theoperatinggroupsareresponsiblefortheday-to-daymanage-
mentofoperationalriskinamannerconsistentwithourenterprise-

wideprinciples.Independentriskmanagementoversightisprovidedby

operatinggroupChiefRiskOfficersandOperationalRiskOfficers,Corpo-

rateSupportareasandCorporateOperationalRiskManagement.Opera-

tionalRiskOfficersindependentlyassessgroupoperationalriskprofiles,

identifymaterialexposuresandpotentialweaknessesincontrols,and

recommendappropriatemitigationstrategiesandactions.Corporate

Supportareasdeveloptoolsandprocessesforthemanagementof

specificoperationalrisksacrosstheenterprise.CorporateOperational

RiskManagementestablishestheORMFandthenecessarygovernance

framework,withoperatinggroupChiefRiskOfficersprovidinggover-

nanceandoversightfortheirrespectivebusinessunits.
OperationalRiskManagement
TheORMFdefinestheprocessesweusetoidentify,measure,manage,

mitigate,monitorandreportkeyoperationalriskexposures.Aprimary

objectiveoftheORMFistoensurethatouroperationalriskprofileis

consistentwithourriskappetiteandsupportedbyadequatecapital.

ExecutingourORMFstrategyalsoinvolvescontinuingtoembedourrisk

culturebypromotinggreaterawarenessandunderstandingofopera-

tionalrisktoourfirstlineofdefencethroughtrainingandcommunica-

tion.Inaddition,wecontinuetoinvestintalenttofurtherstrengthen

oursecondlineofdefencecapabilities.Thekeyprograms,method-
ologiesandprocesseswehavedevelopedtosupporttheframeworkare

highlightedbelow:
‰RiskControlAssessment(RCA)isanestablishedprocessusedbyour
operatinggroupstoidentifythekeyrisksassociatedwiththeirbusi-

nessesandthecontrolsrequiredforriskmitigation.TheRCAprocess

providesaforward-lookingviewoftheimpactofthebusiness

environmentandinternalcontrolsonoperatinggroupriskprofiles,

enablingtheproactivemanagement,mitigationandpreventionof

risk.Onanaggregatebasis,RCAresultsalsoprovideanenterprise-

levelviewofoperationalrisksrelativetoriskappetite,toensurekey

risksareadequatelymanagedandmitigated.
‰ProcessRiskAssessment(PRA)providesadeeperfocusinidentifying

keyrisksandcontrolsinourbusinessprocessesandcanspanacross

multiplebusinessunits.ThePRAenablesagreaterunderstandingof

ourkeyprocessesinordertofacilitatemoreeffectiveoversightand

ensurerisksareappropriatelymitigated.
‰BMO’sinitiativeassessmentandapprovalprocessisusedtoassess,

documentandapprovequalifyinginitiativeswhennewbusiness,

servicesandproductsaredevelopedorexistingservicesandproducts

areenhanced.Theprocessensuresthatduediligence,approval,

monitoringandreportingrequirementsareappropriatelyaddressedat

alllevelsoftheorganization.
‰KeyRiskIndicators(KRIs)provideanearlyindicationofanyadverse

changesinriskexposure.OperatinggroupsandCorporateSupport

areasidentifymetricsrelatedtotheirmaterialoperationalrisks.These

KRIsareusedinmonitoringoperationalriskprofilesandtheiroverall

relationtoourriskappetite,andarelinkedtothresholdsthattrigger

managementaction.
‰Internallossdataservesasanimportantmeansofassessingour

operationalriskexposureandidentifyingopportunitiesforfuturerisk

preventionmeasures.Underthisprocess,internallossdataisana-

lyzedandbenchmarkedagainstexternaldata.Materialtrendsare

regularlyreportedtotheORC,RMCandRRCtoensurepreventative

andcorrectiveactioncanbetakenwhereappropriate.BMOisa

memberoftheOperationalRiskDataExchangeAssociation,the

AmericanBankersAssociationandotherinternationalandnational

associationsofbanksthatsharelossdatainformationanonymouslyto

assistinriskidentification,assessmentandmodelling.
‰BMO’soperationalriskmanagementtrainingprogramsensure

employeesarequalifiedandequippedtoexecutetheORMFstrategy

consistently,effectivelyandefficiently.
‰Effectivebusinesscontinuitymanagementensuresthatwehavethe

capabilitytosustain,manageandrecovercriticaloperationsand

processesintheeventofabusinessdisruption,therebyminimizing

anyadverseeffectsonourcustomersandotherstakeholders.
‰BMO’sCorporateRisk&Insuranceteamprovidesasecondlevelof

mitigationforcertainoperationalriskexposures.Wepurchase

insuranceinamountsthatareexpectedtoprovideadequateprotection

againstunexpectedmateriallossandwhereinsuranceisrequiredby

law,regulationorcontractualagreement.Therehavebeennomaterial

operationalrisklosseventsduringtheyearendedOctober31,2014.
‰Duringtheyear,BMOreceivedapprovaltousetheAdvanced

MeasurementApproach(AMA),arisk-sensitivecapitalmodel,to

determineBaselIIregulatorycapitalrequirementsformanaging

operationalrisk.
‰Stresstestingmeasuresthepotentialimpactofplausibleoperational,

economic,marketandcrediteventsonouroperationsandcapital.

Scenarioanalysisprovidesmanagementwithabetterunderstanding

oflow-frequency,high-severityeventsandassessesenterprise

preparednessforeventsthatcouldcreaterisksthatexceedourrisk

appetite.UndertheAMA,weusescenarioanalysisforstresstesting,

tomanagetailriskexposuretolow-frequency,highseverityevents

andtovalidateoperationalriskcapitaladequacy.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
101MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
InsuranceRisk
Insurancerisk
istheriskoflossduetoactualexperiencebeing
differentfromthatassumedwhenaninsuranceproductwasdesigned
andpriced.Itgenerallyentailsinherentunpredictabilitythatcanarise

fromassuminglong-termpolicyliabilitiesorfromtheuncertaintyof

futureevents.Insuranceriskexistsinallourinsuranceproducts,

includingannuitiesandlife,accidentandsickness,andcreditor

insurance,aswellasinourreinsurancebusiness.
Insuranceriskconsistsof:
‰Claimsrisk–theriskthattheactualmagnitudeorfrequencyofclaims
willdifferfromthoseassumedinthepricingorunderwritingprocess,

includingmortalityrisk,morbidityrisk,longevityriskandcatastrophe

risk;‰Policyholderbehaviourrisk–theriskthatthebehaviourofpolicy-

holdersrelatedtopremiumpayments,withdrawalsorloans,policy

lapsesandsurrendersandothervoluntaryterminationswilldiffer

fromthebehaviourassumedinthepricingcalculations;and
‰Expenserisk–theriskthatactualexpensesassociatedwithacquiring

andadministeringpoliciesandprocessingclaimswillexceedthe

expensesassumedinthepricingcalculations.
Arobustproductapprovalprocessisacornerstoneoftheframeworkfor

identifying,assessingandmitigatingrisksassociatedwithnew

insuranceproductsorchangestoexistingproducts.Thisprocess,com-

binedwithguidelinesandpracticesforunderwritingandclaims
management,promotestheeffectiveidentification,measurementand

managementofinsurancerisk.Reinsurance,whichinvolvestransactions

thattransferinsurancerisktoindependentreinsurancecompanies,is

alsousedtomanageourexposuretoinsuranceriskbydiversifyingrisk

andlimitingclaims.
Actuarialliabilitiesareestimatesoftheamountsrequiredtomeet
insuranceobligations.Liabilitiesareestablishedinaccordancewiththe

standardsofpracticeoftheCanadianInstituteofActuariesandtheChar-

teredProfessionalAccountantsofCanada’sAccountingStandardsBoard.

Theseliabilitiesarevalidatedthroughextensiveinternalandexternal

reviewsandaudits.Assumptionsunderlyingactuarialliabilitiesare

regularlyupdatedtoreflectemergingactualexperience.TheAppointed

Actuariesofourinsurancesubsidiariesareappointedbythosesub-

sidiaries’boardsofdirectorsandhavestatutoryresponsibilityfor

providingopinionsontheadequacyofprovisionsforpolicyholder

liabilities,thesolvencyoftheinsurancecompaniesandthefairnessof

treatmentofparticipatingpolicyholders.Inaddition,theworkofeach

AppointedActuaryissubjecttoanexternal,independentreviewbya

qualifiedactuaryeverythreeyears,inaccordancewithOSFI

GuidelineE-15.
Asofthecurrentyear,wecommencedtheassessmentofrisks,
capitalneedsandsolvencypositionthroughtheOwnRiskandSolvency

Assessment(ORSA)asrequiredbyOSFI.
LegalandRegulatoryRisk
Legalandregulatoryrisk
istheriskofnotcomplyingwithlaws,
contractualundertakingsorotherlegalrequirements,aswellas
regulatoryrequirementsandregulators’expectations.Failureto

properlymanagelegalandregulatoryriskmayresultinlitigation,

financiallosses,regulatorysanctions,aninabilitytoexecuteour

businessstrategiesandharmtoourreputation.
BMO’ssuccessreliesinpartonourabilitytoprudentlymanageour
exposuretojudgments,finesorlossesarisingfromtheriskofnot

complyingwithlawsorcontractualundertakings,ornotmeetingregu-

latoryrequirementsorregulatorexpectations.Thefinancialservices

industryishighlyregulated,andweanticipatemoreintensescrutiny

fromoursupervisorsintheoversightprocessandstrongenforcementof

regulatoryrequirementsasgovernmentsandregulatorsaroundthe

worldcontinuemajorreformstostrengthenthestabilityofthefinancial

system.Thecurrentenvironmentisoneinwhichbanksgloballyhave

recentlybeensubjecttofinesinrelationtoanumberofregulatoryand

marketconductissuesatunprecedentedlevels.Asrulemakingevolves,

wemonitordevelopmentstoensureBMOiswell-positionedtorespond

toandimplementanyrequiredchanges.
UnderthedirectionoftheGeneralCounsel,theLegalandCom-
plianceGroup(LCG)maintainsenterprise-wideframeworkstoidentify,

measure,manage,monitorandreportonlegalandregulatoryrisk.LCG

alsoworkswithoperatinggroupsandCorporateSupportareasto

identifylegalandregulatoryrequirements,trendsandpotentialrisks,

recommendmitigationstrategiesandactions,andoverseelitigation

involvingBMO.Anotherareaoffocusforlegalandcompliance

managementandoperatinggroups’riskcommitteesisoversightof

fiduciaryriskrelatedtoBMO’sbusinessesthatprovideproductsorserv-

icesgivingrisetofiduciarydutiestoclients.Ofparticularimportanceare

thepoliciesandpracticesthataddresstheresponsibilitiesofabusiness

toaclient,includingservicerequirementsandexpectations,clientsuit-

abilitydeterminations,anddisclosureobligationsandcommunications.

Failuretoproperlymanagetheserisksmayresultinharmtoourreputa-

tion,causeadeclineininvestorconfidence,andaffectourabilityto

executeourbusinessstrategies.
UnderthedirectionoftheChiefAnti-MoneyLaunderingOfficer,the
Anti-MoneyLaunderingOfficeisresponsibleforthegovernance,over-

sightandassessmentoftheprinciplesandproceduresestablishedby

theenterprisetoensurecompliancewithregulatoryrequirementsand

riskparametersrelatedtoanti-moneylaundering,anti-terroristfinancing

andsanctionsmeasures.Internationalregulatorscontinuetofocuson

anti-moneylaunderingandrelatedefforts,toraisetheirexpectations

concerningthequalityandefficacyofanti-moneylaunderingand

relatedprogramsandtopenalizeinstitutionsthatfailtomeetthese

expectations.Alloftheseframeworksreflectthethree-lines-of-defenceoperating
modeldescribedpreviously.TheoperatinggroupsandCorporateSupport

areasmanageday-to-dayrisksincompliancewithcorporatepolicies,

whileLCGteamsspecificallyalignedwithdesignatedoperatinggroups

provideadviceandindependentlegalandregulatoryriskmanagement

oversight.Heightenedregulatoryandsupervisoryscrutinyhashadasig-
nificantimpactonhowweconductbusiness.Workingwiththe

operatinggroupsandotherCorporateSupportareas,LCGcontinuesto

diligentlyassessandanalyzetheimplicationsofregulatorychanges,and

devotesubstantialresourcestoimplementsystemsandprocesses

requiredtocomplywithnewregulationswhilehelpingtheoperating

groupsmeetBMOcustomers’needsanddemands.
Wecontinuetorespondtootherglobalregulatorydevelopments,
includingcapitalandliquidityrequirementsundertheBaselCommittee

onBankingSupervisionglobalstandards(BaselIII),over-the-counter

(OTC)derivativesreform,consumerprotectionmeasuresandspecific

financialreforms,suchasthe
Dodd-FrankWallStreetReformand
ConsumerProtectionAct
(Dodd-Frank).Foradditionaldiscussionon
regulatorydevelopmentsrelatingtocapitalmanagement,pleaserefer

totheEnterprise-WideCapitalManagementsectionstartingonpage64.
Cross-BorderResolutionandBail-in
.TheFinancialStabilityBoard(FSB)
publishedaconsultativedocumentconcerningcross-borderrecognition
ofresolutionactionsandtheremovalofimpedimentstotheresolution

ofsystemicallyimportantfinancialinstitutions(Proposal).TheProposal
102BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&Aencouragesjurisdictionstoincludeintheirresolutionframeworksfea-
turesdesignedtoenableprompteffecttobegiventoforeignresolution

actions.Italsorecommendstwotypesofarrangementsbetweencon-

tractingpartiestoaddressareascriticalfororderlycross-borderreso-

lution:(1)temporaryrestrictionsorstaysonearlyterminationrightsin

financialcontracts;and(2)write-downorconversionofdebtinstru-

mentsinresolution,or“bail-in”provisions,wheretheinstrumentsare

governedbythelawsofajurisdictionotherthanthatoftheissuing

entity.UndertheProposal,FSBmembergovernmentsaretotakeofficial

actiontopromoteadoptionofthesetwocontractualsolutions,andFSB

wouldfinalizeguidanceoncoreelementsofstatutoryrecognition

frameworksbytheendof2015.Canadahasproposeda“bail-in”

frameworktoapplytoCanada’sdomesticsystemicallyimportantbanks,

includingBMO.Pleaserefertopage99intheLiquidityandFundingRisk

sectionforfurtherinformationontheproposed“bail-in”frameworkand

otherrelatedregulatorydevelopments.
Dodd-Frank.Dodd-Frankreformsincludeheightenedconsumerpro-
tection,revisedregulationoftheOTCderivativesmarkets,restrictionson
proprietarytradingandownershipandsponsorshipofprivateinvest-

mentfundsbybanksandtheiraffiliates(referredtoasthe
VolckerRule),impositionofheightenedprudentialstandardsandbroaderappli-
cationofleverageandrisk-basedcapitalrequirements.Dodd-Frank

rulemakingwillcontinueoverthenextseveralyears.InDecember2013,

U.S.regulatorsissuedthefinalVolckerRule.Bankingentitieshaveuntil

July21,2015toconformmostoftheiractivitiesandinvestments.In

addition,underDodd-Frank,mostOTCderivativesarenowsubjecttoa

comprehensiveregulatoryregime.Certainderivativesarenowrequired

tobecentrallyclearedandtradedonanexchangeandaresubjectto

reportingandbusinessconductrequirements.Capitalandmargin

requirementsrelatingtoderivativesarecurrentlybeingconsideredby

U.S.andinternationalregulators.InCanada,OTCderivativetransactions

mustnowbereportedtodesignatedtraderepositories.
IndirectAutoLenders
.TheConsumerFinancialProtectionBureau
(CFPB),whichenforcescertainU.S.federalconsumerfinancelaws,is
closelyscrutinizingindirectautolenderstofocusoncompliance,

includingwithfairlendinglaws.
FBORule
.InFebruary2014,theFederalReserveBoardapprovedafinal
ruleforstrengtheningsupervisionandregulationofforeignbanking

organizations(FBORule)thatimplementsDodd-Frank’senhanced

prudentialstandardsfortheU.S.operationsofnon-U.S.banks,suchas

BMO.TheFBORuleestablishesnewrequirementsrelatingtorisk-based

capital,leveragelimits,liquiditystandards,risk-managementframe-

works,concentrationandcreditexposurelimits,resolutionplanningand

creditexposurereporting.Wemustfile,byJanuary1,2015,anoutlineof

ourimplementationplanformeetingtheserequirementsbytheeffec-

tivedate(July1,2016).BMOispreparingfortheimpactoftheFBORule

onitsoperations.
RiskGovernanceFramework
.TheOfficeoftheComptrollerofCurrency
issuedforcommentproposedguidelinesforthedesignand
implementationofariskgovernanceframeworkforlargenational

banks,andboardofdirectoroversightoftheframework’sdesignand

implementation.TheseguidelineswouldapplytoourprincipalU.S.

subsidiarybank,BMOHarrisBankN.A.(BHB),andestablishspecificroles

andresponsibilitiesfocusedonriskmanagementforBHB’sfront-line

units,riskmanagement,internalaudit,boardandCEO.
TheGeneralCounselandtheChiefComplianceOfficer(CCO)regu-
larlyreporttotheAuditandConductReviewCommittee(ACRC)ofthe

BoardandseniormanagementontheeffectivenessofourEnterprise

ComplianceProgram(ECP)which,usingarisk-basedapproach,identi-

fies,assessesandmanagescompliancewithapplicablelegalandregu-

latoryrequirements.TheECPdirectsoperatinggroupsandCorporate

Supportareastomaintaincompliancepolicies,proceduresandcontrols

tomeettheserequirements.UnderthedirectionoftheCCO,LCGidenti-

fiesandreportsongapsanddeficienciesandtracksremedialaction

plans.TheChiefAnti-MoneyLaunderingOfficeralsoregularlyreportsto

theACRC.
AllBMOemployeesarerequiredtoannuallycompletelegaland
regulatorytrainingontopicssuchasanti-corruption,anti-money

launderingandprivacy.Thisisdoneinconjunctionwithourcodeof

conducttraining,whichtestsemployees’knowledgeandunderstanding

ofhowtheyarerequiredtobehave.
BusinessRisk
Businessrisk
arisesfromthespecificbusinessactivitiesofa
companyandtheeffectsthesecouldhaveonitsearnings.
Businessriskencompassesthepotentialcausesofearningsvolatility

thataredistinctfromcredit,marketoroperationalriskfactors.The

managementofbusinessriskidentifiesandaddressesfactorsrelated

totheriskthatvolumeswilldecreaseormarginswillshrinkwithout

thecompanyhavingtheabilitytocompensateforthisdeclinebycut-

tingcosts.
BMOfacesmanyrisksthataresimilartothosefacedbynon-
financialfirms,principallythatourprofitability,andhencevalue,maybe

erodedbychangesinthebusinessenvironmentorbyfailuresof

strategyorexecution.Sourcesoftheserisksinclude,butarenotlimited

to,changingclientexpectations,adversebusinessdevelopmentsand

relativelyineffectiveresponsestoindustrychanges.
WithinBMO,eachoperatinggroupisresponsibleforcontrollingits
respectivebusinessriskbyassessing,managingandmitigatingtherisks

arisingfromchangesinbusinessvolumesandcoststructures,among

otherfactors.
ModelRisk
Modelrisk
isthepotentialforadverseconsequencesfromdecisions
basedonincorrectormisusedmodeloutputs.Theadversecon-

sequencescanbefinancialloss,poorbusinessdecision-makingor

damagetoreputation.
BMOusesmodelsthatrangefromverysimplemodelsforbasictrans-

actionstohighlycomplicatedmodelsthatvaluecomplextransactions

andmeasuresophisticatedportfolioriskandcapital.
Thesemodelsareusedtoinformstrategicdecision-makingandto
assistinmakingdailylending,trading,underwriting,funding,invest-
mentandoperationaldecisions.BMOalsousesmodelsasacorerisk

managementtool,tomeasureexposuretospecificrisksandtomeasure

totalriskonanintegratedbasisusingEconomicCapital.
BMOmaintainsstrongcontrolsoverthedevelopment,
implementationandapplicationofmodels,whichcanbegroupedwithin

sevenmaincategories:
‰valuationmodelsforthevaluationofassets,liabilitiesorreserves;
‰riskexposureestimationmodelsformeasuringcreditrisk,market

risk,liquidityriskandoperationalrisk,whichalsoaddressexpected

lossanditsapplications;
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
103MD&AMANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS
‰adjudicationandunderwritingmodelsforadjudicatingandunder-
writingtransactions;
‰capitalandstresstestingmodelsformeasuringcapital,allocating

capitalandmanagingregulatorycapitalandEconomicCapital;
‰fiduciarymodelsforassetallocation,assetoptimizationandportfolio

management;‰majorbusinessmanagedapplicationmodelsformaterialbusiness-

makingwheremodeloutcomesplaymaterialroles;and
‰modelsdrivenbyregulatoryandotherstakeholderrequirements.
ModelRiskGovernance
TheModelRiskManagementCommittee,across-functionalgrouprepre-

sentingallkeystakeholdersacrosstheenterprise(ModelUsers,Model

Developers,theModelRiskGovernancegroupandtheModelRiskVali-

dation(MRV)group),meetsregularlytoprovideinputintothe

development,implementationandmaintenanceoftheModelRisk

ManagementFrameworkandtherequirementsgoverningallmodels

thatareusedacrosstheenterprise.
ModelRiskisgovernedbytheenterprise-wideModelRiskManage-
mentFramework,whichsetsoutend-to-endriskgovernanceacrossthe

modelactivitycycleandensuresthatmodelriskremainsconsistentwith

BMO’senterprise-wideriskappetite.TheframeworkincludesBMO’s

ModelRiskCorporatePolicy&Guidelines,whichoutlinesexplicitprinci-

plesformanagingmodelrisk,detailsmodelriskprocessesandclearly

definesrolesandresponsibilitiesofallstakeholders.
TheModelRiskCorporatePolicy,whichisapprovedbytheRRC,
outlinestherequirementsfortheoversight,identification,development,

independentvalidation,implementation,use,monitoringandreporting

ofmodelsandmodelriskacrosstheenterprise.
Priortouse,allmodelsmustreceiveapprovalbasedonan
independentassessmentoftheirspecificmodelriskbytheMRVgroup.

Allmodelsareassignedariskratingaspartofthevalidationprocess,

whichdeterminesthematerialityofmodelriskandthefrequencyof

ongoingreview.Inadditiontoregularlyscheduledmodelvalidationand

review,BMOusesmodelriskmonitoringandoversightreportingand

procedurestoinformmanagementthatmodelsaremanagedandused,

andperformasexpected.Thisoversightalsomitigatesmodelriskby

increasingthelikelihoodofearlydetectionofemergingissues.
ModelValidation,OutcomeAnalysis&Back-Testing
Oncethemodelsarevalidated,approvedandinproductiontheyare

subjecttoongoingvalidation,whichincludesongoingmonitoringand

outcomesanalysis.Asakeycomponentoftheoutcomesanalysis,back-

testingmeasuresmodeloutputagainstactualobservedoutcomes.This

analysisisusedtoconfirmthevalidityandperformanceofeachmodel

overtimewhileensuringthatrightlevelofcontrolsareinplaceto

addressidentifiedissuesandenhanceamodel’soverallperformance.
CreditRisk–
CreditRiskModelValidationGuidelinesareanimportant
subsetofBMO’sModelRiskGuidelines.TheseCreditRiskModelVali-
dationGuidelinesincludeclearrequirementsforhowBMOback-tests
creditriskmodels.
Theprocessforback-testingfortheProbabilityofDefault(PD)
includescomparingacreditriskmodelestimatedprobabilitiesofdefault

againsttheactualorrealizeddefaultratesacrossallobligorratings.This

processalsoincludestestingforstatisticalevidencethatdefaultrates

accuratelyrepresentsamplingvariabilityovertime.
Thecomprehensivevalidationofariskratingsystemincludes
variousprescribedtestsandanalysesthatmeasurediscriminatory

power,calibrationanddynamicproperties,withsupportfrommigration

analysis.Additionaltestsoranalysesareusedtovalidateborrowerrisk

ratinggradesandprobabilityofdefault.
Aswithanyanalysis,BMOapplieshumanjudgmenttodetermine
whichfactors,suchasdatalimitations,mayimpacttheoverallrelevance

ofagivenvalidationapproachorinterpretationofstatisticalanalysis.A

similarback-testingisappliedtotheLossGivenDefault(LGD)and

ExposureatDefault(EAD).
AnnualValidationsofin-productionmodelsareconductedtoensure
theyperformasintendedandtoconfirmtheadequacyoftheirdesign.An
annualValidationincludesanongoingqualitativevalidationconductedby

modeldevelopersandaquantitativeValidationconductedbytheMRV
groupwithallconclusionsreportedbacktoseniormanagement.
TradingandUnderwritingMarketRisk–
Allinternalmodelsusedto
calculateregulatorycapitalfortradingandunderwritingmarketrisk
musthavetheirValueatRisk(VaR)resultsback-testedregularly.The

bank’sinternalVaRmodelisback-testeddaily,andthe1-day99%

confidencelevelVaRatthelocalandconsolidatedBMOlevelsare

comparedagainsttherealizedtheoreticalProfit&Loss(P&L)whichis

thedailychangeinportfoliovaluethatwouldoccuriftheportfolio

compositionremainedunchanged.IfthetheoreticalP&Lisnegativeand

itsabsolutevalueisgreaterthanthepreviousday’sVaR,aback-testing

exceptionoccurs.Eachexceptionisinvestigated,explainedanddocu-

mented,andtheback-testingresultsarereviewedbytheBoardand

regulators.Thisprocessmonitorsthequalityandaccuracyoftheinternal

VaRmodelandassistsinrefiningoverallriskmeasurementprocedures.
StructuralMarketRisk–
Modelback-testingisperformedmonthlyand
reportedquarterly.Forproductswithscheduledtermsuchasmortgages

andtermdeposits,themodel-predictedprepaymentsorredemptionsare

comparedagainsttheactualobservedoutcomes.Forproductswithouta

scheduledtermsuchascreditcardloansandchequingaccountsthe

modelledbalancerun-offprofilesarecomparedagainstactualbalance

trends.Thevariancesbetweenmodelpredictionsandactualexperienced

outcomesaremeasuredagainstpre-definedriskmaterialitythresholds.

Toensurevariancesarewithinthetolerancerange,actionssuchas

modelreviewandparameterrecalibrationaretaken.Performanceis

assessedbyanalyzingmodeloverridesandtestsconductedduring

modeldevelopment,suchasback-testingandsensitivitytesting.
StrategicRisk
Strategicrisk
isthepotentialforlossduetofluctuationsinthe
externalbusinessenvironmentand/orfailuretoproperlyrespondto

thesefluctuationsasaresultofinaction,ineffectivestrategiesor

poorimplementationofstrategies.
Strategicriskarisesfromexternalrisksinherentinthebusinessenviron-

mentwithinwhichBMOoperates,aswellastheriskofpotentiallossif

BMOisunabletoaddressthoseexternalriskseffectively.Whileexternal

strategicrisks–includingeconomic,political,regulatory,technological,

socialandcompetitiverisks–cannotbecontrolled,thelikelihoodand
magnitudeoftheirimpactcanbemitigatedthroughaneffective

strategicriskmanagementframework.
BMO’sStrategyGroupoverseesourstrategicplanningprocessesand
workswiththelinesofbusiness,alongwithRisk,Financeandother
CorporateSupportareas,toidentify,monitorandmitigatestrategicrisk
acrosstheenterprise.Ourrigorousstrategicriskmanagementframework

encouragesaconsistentapproachtothedevelopmentofstrategiesand

incorporatesfinancialinformationlinkedtofinancialcommitments.
TheStrategyGroupworkswiththelinesofbusinessandkeycorpo-
ratestakeholdersduringthestrategydevelopmentprocesstopromote

consistencyandadherencetostrategicmanagementstandards.The
104BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
MD&Apotentialimpactsofchangesinthebusinessenvironment,suchasbroad
industrytrendsandtheactionsofcompetitors,areconsideredaspartof

thisprocessandinformstrategicdecisionswithineachofourlinesof

business.EnterpriseandgroupstrategiesarereviewedwiththeExecu-

tiveCommitteeandtheBoardofDirectorsannuallyininteractiveses-

sionsthatchallengeassumptionsandstrategiesinthecontextofcurrent

andpotentialfuturebusinessenvironments.
Performanceobjectivesestablishedthroughthestrategicmanage-
mentprocessaremonitoredregularlyandarereporteduponquarterly,

usingbothleadingandlaggingindicatorsofperformance,sothatstrat-

egiescanbereviewedandadjustedwherenecessary.Regularstrategic

andfinancialupdatesarealsomonitoredcloselytoidentifyanysig-

nificantemergingriskissues.
ReputationRisk
Reputationrisk
istheriskofanegativeimpacttoBMOthatresults
fromthedeteriorationofBMO’sreputation.Potentialnegative

impactsincluderevenueloss,declineinclientloyalty,litigation,

regulatorysanctionoradditionaloversight,ordeclineinBMO’s

shareprice.
BMO’sreputationisoneofitsmostvaluableassets.Byprotectingand

maintainingourreputation,wecanincreaseshareholdervalue,reduce

ourcostofcapitalandimproveemployeeengagementandcustomer

loyalty.
Ourreputationisbuiltonourcommitmenttohighstandardsof
businessconductandethics.
FirstPrinciples,ourcodeofconduct,isthebasisforfosteringacul-
tureofintegrityandtrustandprovidesallemployeesanddirectorswith

guidanceonexpectedbehaviour.
Allemployeesanddirectorsareresponsibleforconductingthem-
selvesinaccordancewith
FirstPrinciples,thusbuildingandmaintaining
BMO’sreputation.
Webelievethatactive,ongoingandeffectivemanagementof
reputationriskisbestachievedbyconsideringreputationriskissuesin

thecourseofstrategydevelopment,strategicandoperational

implementation,andtransactionalorinitiativedecision-making,aswell

asinmakingday-to-daybusinessdecisions.Reputationriskisalso

managedthroughourcorporategovernancepracticesandrisk

managementframework.
TheReputationRiskManagementCommitteereviewsinstancesof
significantorheightenedreputationrisktoBMO,includingthosethat

mayarisefromcomplexcreditorstructured-financetransactions.
EnvironmentalandSocialRisk
Environmentalandsocialrisk
istheriskoflossordamageto
BMO’sreputationresultingfromenvironmentalandsocialconcerns

relatedtoBMOoritscustomers.Environmentalandsocialriskis

oftenassociatedwithcredit,operationalandreputationrisk.
Inordertomanageourbusinessresponsiblyweconsiderfactorsthatcan

giverisetoenvironmentalandsocialrisk.Thisconceptisembeddedin

ourBoardapprovedCodeofBusinessConductandEthics.Environmental

andsocialriskmanagementactivitiesareoverseenbytheEnvironmental,

SocialandGovernance(ESG)groupandtheEnvironmentalSustainability

group,withsupportfromourlinesofbusinessandotherCorporate

Supportareas.BMO’sSustainabilityC
ouncil,whichiscomprisedofexecu-
tivesrepresentingvariousareasoftheorganization,providesinsightand

guidanceforourenvironmentalandsocialinitiatives.
Aspartofourenterpriseriskmanagementframework,weevaluate
theenvironmentalandsocialimpactofourclients’operations,aswell

astheimpactoftheirindustrysectors.Environmentalandsocialrisk

coversabroadspectrumofissues,suchasclimatechange,biodiversity

andecosystemhealth,pollution,wasteandtheunsustainableuseof

waterandresources,aswellasriskstothelivelihoods,healthandrights

ofcommunitiesandtheirculturalheritage.Weworkwithexternal

stakeholderstounderstandtheimpactofouroperationsandfinancing

decisionsinthecontextoftheseissues,andweusethisunderstanding

todeterminetheconsequencesforourbusinesses.BMOhasdeveloped

andimplementedspecificfinancingguidelinesonenvironmentaland

socialriskforspecificlinesofbusiness.Environmentalandsocialrisks

associatedwithcredittransactionsaremanagedwithinBMO’screditand
counterpartyriskframework.Enhancedduediligenceisappliedtotrans-

actionswithclientsoperatinginenvironmentallysensitiveindustry

sectors.BMOappliestheEquatorPrinciples,avoluntarycreditriskmanage-
mentframeworkfordetermining,assessingandmanagingenviron-

mentalandsocialriskinprojectfinancetransactions.Theseprinciples

havebeenintegratedintoourcreditriskframework.Wearealsoa

signatorytoandparticipateintheCarbonDisclosureProject,which

providescorporatedisclosureongreenhousegasemissionsandclimate

changemanagement.
BMOimplementedESGtrainingforBMOCapitalMarketsemployees
aspartofaprogramtoreinforceaconsistentunderstandingof

environmentalandsocialriskacrosstheenterprise.Thetrainingincludes

identificationofemergingissues,anoverviewofBMO’sduediligence

proceduresandtoolstoassistemployeesinidentifyingandmanaging

environmental,socialandgovernancerisks.Wereviewourenviron-

mentalandsocialriskpoliciesandproceduresonaperiodicbasis.
BMOisasignatorytotheUNPrinciplesforResponsibleInvestment,
aframeworkdesignedtoencouragesustainableinvestingthroughthe

integrationofESGissuesininvestment,decision-makingandownership

practices.Toensurethatweareinformedofemergingissues,weparticipate
inglobalforumswithourpeers,maintainanopendialoguewithour

stakeholdersandcontinuouslymonitorandevaluatepolicyandlegis-

lativechangesinthejurisdictionsinwhichweoperate.Ourenviron-

mentalandsocialpoliciesandpracticesareoutlinedindetailinour

annualEnvironmental,SocialandGovernanceReportandPublic

AccountabilityStatement,andonourCorporateResponsibilitywebsite.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
105SupplementalInformation
SUPPLEMENTALINFORMATION
SupplementalInformation
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformtothecurrentperiod’spresentationandforchangesinaccountingpolicies.Referto
Note1oftheconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Inaddition,onNovember1,2011,BMO’sfinancialstatementshavebeenreportedinaccordance

withIFRS.Resultsforyearspriorto2011havenotbeenrestatedandarepresentedinaccordancewithCanadianGAAPasdefinedatthattime

(CGAAP).Asaresultofthesechanges,certaingrowthratesandcompoundannualgrowthrates(CAGR)maynotbemeaningful.

Adjustedresultsinthissectionarenon-GAAPmeasures.Refertothenon-GAAPMeasuressectiononpage32.
Table1:ShareholderValueandOtherStatisticalInformation
AsatorfortheyearendedOctober31
2014201320122011201020092008200720062005
MarketPriceperCommonShare
($)High85.7173.9061.2963.9465.7154.7563.4472.7570.2462.44
Low67.0456.7453.1555.0249.7824.0535.6560.2156.8653.05
Close81.7372.6259.0258.8960.2350.0643.0263.0069.4557.81
CommonShareDividends
Dividendsdeclaredpershare
($)3.082.942.822.802.802.802.802.712.261.85
Dividendpayoutratio
(%)47.847.546.057.158.690.673.964.843.039.1
Dividendyield
(%)3.84.04.84.84.65.66.54.33.33.2
Dividendsdeclared
($millions)
1,9911,9041,8201,6901,5711,5301,4091,3541,133925
TotalShareholderReturn
(%)Five-yearaverageannualreturn
15.517.04.21.95.91.80.914.219.113.8
Three-yearaverageannualreturn
16.711.510.817.44.5(5.3)(5.6)6.615.618.4
One-yearreturn
17.128.85.22.426.425.1(27.9)(5.8)24.13.7
CommonShareInformation

Numberoutstanding
(inthousands)
Endofyear
649,050644,130650,730639,000566,468551,716504,575498,563500,726500,219
Averagebasic
645,860648,476644,407591,403559,822540,294502,062499,950501,257500,060
Averagediluted
648,475649,806648,615607,068563,125542,313506,697508,614511,173510,845
Numberofshareholderaccounts
55,61056,24159,23858,76936,61237,06137,25037,16538,36040,104
Bookvaluepershare
($)48.1843.2239.4136.7634.0931.9532.0228.2928.8926.48
Totalmarketvalueofshares
($billions)
53.046.838.437.634.127.621.731.434.828.9
Price-to-earningsmultiple
12.811.89.712.212.716.311.415.313.512.5
Price-to-adjustedearningsmultiple
12.411.79.911.512.512.59.211.613.412.9
Market-to-bookvaluemultiple
1.701.661.471.491.771.571.342.232.402.18
Balances
Asatassets
588,659537,044524,684500,575411,640388,458416,050366,524319,978293,862
Averagedailyassets
593,928555,431543,931469,934398,474438,548397,609360,575309,131296,502
Averagedailynetloansandacceptances
292,098266,107246,129215,414171,554182,097175,079165,783153,282139,414
ReturnonEquityandAssets

Returnonequity
(%)14.014.915.915.114.99.913.014.419.218.8
Adjustedreturnonequity
(%)14.415.015.516.015.012.916.219.019.318.3
Returnonaverageassets
(%)0.720.740.750.650.710.410.500.590.860.81
Adjustedreturnonaverageassets
(%)0.740.750.730.680.710.520.610.780.870.78
Returnonaveragerisk-weightedassets
(%)(1)
1.851.931.961.701.740.971.071.201.711.63
Adjustedreturnonaveragerisk-weighted
assets(%)(1)
1.911.941.921.791.761.251.321.581.711.58
Averageequitytoaveragetotalassets
(%)0.050.050.050.040.050.040.040.040.040.04
OtherStatisticalInformation

Employees(2)Canada30,59630,30130,79731,35129,82129,11829,52928,94427,92226,684
UnitedStates
14,83614,69614,96315,1847,4456,7327,2566,5956,7856,901
Other1,346634512440363323288288234200
Total46,77845,63146,27246,97537,62936,17337,07335,82734,94133,785
Bankbranches
Canada934933930920910900983977963968
UnitedStates
615626638688321290292243215208
Other4433355444Total1,5531,5631,5711,6111,2341,1951,2801,2241,1821,180
Automatedbankingmachines
Canada3,0162,9002,5962,2352,0762,0302,0261,9781,9361,952
UnitedStates
1,3221,3251,3751,366905636640583547539
Total4,3384,2253,9713,6012,9812,6662,6662,5612,4832,491
2010andpriorbasedonCGAAP.
2011hasnotbeenrestatedtoreflectthenewIFRSstandardsadoptedin2014.

(1)Beginningin2008,returnonaveragerisk-weightedassetshasbeencalculatedundertheBaselIIguidelines;forallpriorperiods,returnonaveragerisk-weightedassetshasbeencalculatedusingthe
BaselImethodology.
(2)Reflectsfull-timeequivalentnumberofemployees,comprisingfull-timeandpart-timeemployeesandadjustmentsforovertimehours.
106BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
SupplementalInformation
Table2:SummaryIncomeStatementandGrowthStatistics
($millions,exceptasnoted)
FortheyearendedOctober31
20142013201220112010
5-yearCAGR10-yearCAGRIncomeStatement–ReportedResults
Netinterestincome
8,4618,6778,9377,4746,235
8.75.8
Non-interestrevenue
8,2577,3866,9926,4696,004
8.56.1
Totalrevenue
16,71816,06315,92913,94312,239
8.66.0
Provisionforcreditlosses
5615877641,2121,049
nmnmNon-interestexpense
10,92110,22610,1358,7417,619
8.15.9
Incomebeforeprovisionforincometaxes
5,2365,2505,0303,9903,571
20.34.8
Provisionforincometaxes
9031,055874876687
nm(0.7)Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
(1)nananana
74nmnmNetincome
4,3334,1954,1563,1142,810
19.46.6
Attributabletobankshareholders
4,2774,1304,0823,0412,810
19.16.4
Attributabletonon-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
(1)56657473
nanmnm
Netincome
4,3334,1954,1563,1142,810
19.46.6
IncomeStatement–AdjustedResults

Netinterestincome
8,4618,0208,1587,2486,235
8.75.8
Non-interestrevenue
8,2577,3526,7086,4946,004
6.56.1
Totalrevenue
16,71815,37214,86613,74212,239
7.66.0
Provisionforcreditlosses
5613574701,1081,049
nmnmNon-interestexpense
10,7619,7559,4108,4537,583
8.35.9
Incomebeforeprovisionforincometaxes
5,3965,2604,9864,1813,607
13.84.8
Provisionforincometaxes
9431,037927906691
16.0(1.7)
Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
(1)nananana
74nmnmAdjustednetincome
4,4534,2234,0593,2752,916
13.47.0
Attributabletobankshareholders
4,3974,1583,9853,2022,916
13.16.9
Attributabletonon-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
(1)56657473
nanmnm
Adjustednetincome
4,4534,2234,0593,2752,916
13.47.0
EarningsperShare(EPS)
($)Basic6.446.196.134.904.78
15.83.6
Diluted6.416.176.104.844.75
15.83.8
Adjusteddiluted
6.596.215.955.104.81
10.44.4
Year-over-YearGrowth-BasedStatisticalInformation
(%)Netincomegrowth
3.30.933.58.054.8
nanaAdjustednetincomegrowth
5.44.123.912.322.9
nanaDilutedEPSgrowth
3.91.126.01.954.2
nanaAdjusteddilutedEPSgrowth
6.14.416.76.019.7
nana2010andpriorbasedonCGAAP.Five-yearandten-yearCAGRbasedonCGAAPin2009and2004,respectively,andonIFRSin2014.2011growthratesbasedonCGAAPin2010andIFRSin2011.
2011hasnotbeenrestatedtoreflectthenewIFRSstandardsadoptedin2014.

(1)Priorto2011,underCGAAP,non-controllinginterestinsubsidiarieswasdeductedinthedeterminationofnetincome.

nm–notmeaningful

na–notapplicable
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
107SupplementalInformation
SUPPLEMENTALINFORMATION
Table3:RevenueandRevenueGrowth
($millions,exceptasnoted)
FortheyearendedOctober31
20142013201220112010
5-yearCAGR10-yearCAGRNetInterestIncome
8,4618,6778,9377,4746,235
8.75.8
Year-over-yeargrowth
(%)(2.5)(2.9)19.619.911.9
nana
AdjustedNetInterestIncome
8,4618,0208,1587,2486,235
8.75.8
Year-over-yeargrowth
(%)5.5(1.7)12.616.211.9
nana
NetInterestMargin
(1)Averageearningassets
528,786485,191461,018404,195332,468
9.18.9
Netinterestmargin
(%)1.601.791.941.851.88
nana
Adjustednetinterestmargin
(%)1.601.651.771.791.88
nana
Canadiandollarnetinterestmargin
(%)1.741.821.891.992.12
nana
U.S.dollarandothercurrenciesnetinterestmargin
(%)1.411.742.011.611.47
nana
Non-InterestRevenue
Securitiescommissionsandfees
9348468251,2151,077
(0.8)(1.2)
Depositandpaymentservicecharges
1,002916929834802
4.13.0
Tradingrevenues
9498491,025549504
5.616.8
Lendingfees
680603544593572
4.17.9
Cardfees
462461441689233
30.65.9
Investmentmanagementandcustodialfees
1,246971967496355
29.415.0
Mutualfundrevenues
1,073832665633550
18.111.0
Securitizationrevenues
––––678
nmnm
Underwritingandadvisoryfees
744659600512445
13.48.0
Securitiesgains(losses),otherthantrading
162285152189150
nmnm
Foreignexchange,otherthantrading
17917215313093
27.80.1
Insuranceincome
503445335283321
11.313.8
Otherrevenues
323347356346224
13.71.6
TotalNon-InterestRevenue
8,2577,3866,9926,4696,004
8.56.1
Year-over-yeargrowth
(%)11.85.68.17.79.3
nana
Non-interestrevenueasa%oftotalrevenue
49.446.043.946.449.1
nana
AdjustedNon-InterestRevenue
8,2577,3526,7086,4946,004
6.56.1
Year-over-yearadjustednon-interestrevenuegrowth
(%)12.39.63.38.1(0.2)
nana
Adjustednon-interestrevenueasa%oftotaladjustedrevenue
49.447.845.147.349.1
nana
TotalRevenue
16,71816,06315,92913,94312,239
8.66.0
Year-over-yeartotalrevenuegrowth
(%)4.10.814.213.910.6
nana
TotalAdjustedRevenue
16,71815,37214,86613,74212,239
7.66.0
Year-over-yeartotaladjustedrevenuegrowth
(%)8.73.48.212.35.7
nana
2010andpriorbasedonCGAAP.Five-yearandten-yearCAGRbasedonCGAAPin2009and2004,respectively,andonIFRSin2014.2011growthratesbasedonCGAAPin2010andIFRSin2011.
2011hasnotbeenrestatedtoreflectthenewIFRSstandardsadoptedin2014.

(1)Netinterestmarginiscalculatedbasedonaverageearningassets.

na–notapplicable

nm–notmeaningful
108BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
SupplementalInformation
Table4:Non-InterestExpenseandExpense-to-RevenueRatio
($millions,exceptasnoted)
FortheyearendedOctober31
20142013201220112010
5-yearCAGR10-yearCAGRNon-InterestExpense
Employeecompensation
Salaries3,3883,2593,1482,6462,285
7.26.0
Performance-basedcompensation
1,9461,6861,6571,5601,455
7.85.3
Employeebenefits
908897808621624
6.94.5
Totalemployeecompensation
6,2425,8425,6134,8274,364
7.35.5
Premisesandequipment
Rentalofrealestate
415416400360319
6.28.6
Premises,furnitureandfixtures
261377368310269
(0.8)(0.1)
Propertytaxes
3937363028
5.9(2.8)
Computersandequipment
(1)1,1931,0031,071878727
12.15.8
Totalpremisesandequipment
(1)1,9081,8331,8751,5781,343
8.3nmOtherexpenses
Amortizationofintangibleassets
(1)382346331231203
13.6nmCommunications289291301259229
5.57.6
Businessandcapitaltaxes
3939465152
(3.1)(9.0)
Professionalfees
622527593624401
11.49.0
Travelandbusinessdevelopment
542514491382343
11.98.5
Other897834885789684
9.27.6
Totalotherexpenses
2,7712,5512,6472,3361,912
10.18.6
TotalNon-InterestExpense
10,92110,22610,1358,7417,619
8.15.9
Year-over-yeartotalnon-interestexpensegrowth
(%)6.80.915.914.73.2
nanaTotalAdjustedNon-InterestExpense
10,7619,7559,4108,4537,583
8.35.9
Year-over-yeartotaladjustednon-interestexpensegrowth
(%)10.33.711.311.55.0
nanaNon-interestexpense-to-revenueratio(Efficiencyratio)
(%)65.363.763.662.762.2
nanaAdjustednon-interestexpense-to-revenueratio(Efficiencyratio)
(%)64.463.563.361.562.0
nanaEfficiencyratio,excludingPBCAE
(2)59.960.859.3––
nanaAdjustedefficiencyratio,excludingPBCAE
(2)59.160.458.7––
nanaGovernmentLeviesandTaxes
(3)Governmentleviesotherthanincometaxes
Payrolllevies
252249250203175
8.04.4
Propertytaxes
3937363028
5.9(2.8)
Provincialcapitaltaxes
2730374445
(5.3)(11.3)
Businesstaxes
97977
0.31.4
Harmonizedsalestax,GSTandothersalestaxes
273262249235146
18.76.2
Sundrytaxes
21211
nmnm
Totalgovernmentleviesotherthanincometaxes
602586583520402
10.62.6
Provisionforincometaxes
9031,055874876687
nm(0.7)TotalGovernmentLeviesandTaxes
1,5051,6411,4571,3961,089
20.90.5
Totalgovernmentleviesandtaxesasa%ofincomeavailabletopay
governmentleviesandtaxes
25.028.726.631.027.4
nanaEffectiveincometaxrate
(%)17.220.117.422.019.2
nanaAdjustedeffectiveincometaxrate
(%)17.519.718.621.719.2
nana2010andpriorbasedonCGAAP.Five-yearandten-yearCAGRbasedonCGAAPin2009and2004,respectively,andonIFRSin2014.2011growthratesbasedonCGAAPin2010andIFRSin2011.
2011hasnotbeenrestatedtoreflectthenewIFRSstandardsadoptedin2014.

(1)In2009,weadoptednewaccountingrequirementsforintangibleassetsandreclassifiedcertaincomputerequipmentfrompremisesandequipmenttointangibleassets.Computerandequipment
expenseandtheamortizationofintangibleassetswererestated,butnotforyearspriorto2007.Assuch,ten-yeargrowthratesfortheseexpensecategoriesarenotmeaningful.Together,computer
andequipmentexpenseandtheamortizationofintangibleassetsincreasedatacompoundannualgrowthrateof6.2%overtenyears.Together,totalpremisesandequipmentexpenseandthe

amortizationofintangibleassetsincreasedatacompoundannualgrowthrateof5.4%overtenyears.
(2)Thisratioiscalculatedexcludinginsurancepolicyholderbenefits,claimsandacquisitionexpenses(PBCAE).

(3)Governmentleviesareincludedinvariousnon-interestexpensecategories.
na–notapplicable

nm–notmeaningful
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
109SupplementalInformation
SUPPLEMENTALINFORMATION
Table5:AverageAssets,LiabilitiesandInterestRates
($millions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
FortheyearendedOctober31
AveragebalancesAverageinterestrate(%)
Interestincome/expenseAveragebalancesAverageinterestrate(%)
Interestincome/expenseAveragebalancesAverageinterestrate(%)
Interestincome/
expenseAssetsCanadianDollar

Depositswithotherbanks
1,6321.5225
2,4611.28322,4181.2230
Securities94,2341.461,373
83,6051.961,63681,4861.981,617
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreements
23,0270.47109
22,3090.5412120,8981.11232
LoansResidentialmortgages
90,1343.082,778
81,6933.152,57671,2823.382,406
Non-residentialmortgages
6,2764.08256
6,2854.292696,2824.67293
Personalandcreditcards
55,7195.132,860
54,8454.972,72853,2175.062,691
Businessesandgovernments
40,2504.341,748
37,3804.681,74934,0385.191,766
Totalloans
192,3793.977,642
180,2034.067,322164,8194.347,156
TotalCanadiandollar
311,2722.949,149
288,5783.169,111269,6213.359,035
U.S.DollarandOtherCurrencies

Depositswithotherbanks
38,8150.63245
35,0930.6121338,6660.54209
Securities53,9211.11601
48,4881.3264047,8391.63779
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreements
32,6290.1238
32,5780.175727,9070.3289
LoansResidentialmortgages
7,7533.37261
8,8974.313839,7224.67454
Non-residentialmortgages
4,8592.48121
5,5583.011676,4236.61425
Personalandcreditcards
15,8123.32524
14,8623.5953314,3744.69674
Businessesandgovernments
61,4023.422,102
47,8214.522,16143,0834.902,111
Totalloans
89,8263.353,008
77,1384.213,24473,6024.983,664
TotalU.S.dollarandothercurrencies
215,1911.813,892
193,2972.154,154188,0142.524,741
Othernon-interestbearingassets
67,46573,55686,396
TotalAllCurrencies

Totalassetsandinterestincome
593,9282.2013,041
555,4312.3913,265544,0312.5313,776
Liabilities
CanadianDollar

DepositsBanks5,4160.3921
5,9210.34204,2330.3414
Businessesandgovernments
98,0901.381,353
88,6031.531,35277,6051.601,242
Individuals89,0070.97863
82,2480.9678881,1171.00808
Totaldeposits
192,5131.162,237
176,7721.222,160162,9551.272,064
Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchasedandsecuritieslent
orsold
(1)40,7131.74710
36,0771.9670844,2141.55686
Subordinateddebtandotherinterestbearingliabilities
24,7123.11769
28,0043.2591134,3683.231,109
TotalCanadiandollar
257,9381.443,716
240,8531.573,779241,5371.603,859
U.S.DollarandOtherCurrencies

DepositsBanks19,0480.2344
17,1350.335617,1310.3458
Businessesandgovernments
145,3550.34494
123,1290.32392102,3730.38384
Individuals41,6750.2290
40,6940.2911940,5110.41167
Totaldeposits
206,0780.30628
180,9580.31567160,0150.38609
Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchasedandsecuritieslent
orsold
(1)33,6500.2172
33,4860.309933,3350.51170
Subordinateddebtandotherinterestbearingliabilities
4,9013.34164
4,3253.321433,8305.26201
TotalU.S.dollarandothercurrencies
244,6290.35864
218,7690.37809197,1800.50980
Othernon-interestbearingliabilities
59,139
66,52377,858
TotalAllCurrencies

Totalliabilitiesandinterestexpense
561,7060.824,580
526,1450.874,588516,5750.944,839
Shareholders’equity
32,22229,28627,456
TotalLiabilities,InterestExpenseandShareholders’Equity593,9280.774,580
555,4310.834,588544,0310.894,839
Netinterestmargin
–basedonearningassets
1.601.791.94
–basedontotalassets
1.421.561.64
Netinterestincomebasedontotalassets8,461
8,6778,937
Adjustednetinterestmargin
–basedonearningassets
1.601.651.77
–basedontotalassets
1.421.441.50
Adjustednetinterestincomebasedontotalassets8,461
8,0208,158
Comparativeperiodshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’spresentationandforchangesinaccountingpolicies.RefertoNote1oftheconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
(1)FortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012,themaximumamountofsecuritieslentorsoldunderrepurchaseagreementsatanymonthendamoun
tedto$50,138million,$53,898million
and$62,038million,respectively.
110BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
SupplementalInformation
Table6:Volume/RateAnalysisofChangesinNetInterestIncome
($millions)
2014/20132013/2012Increase(decrease)duetochangein
Increase(decrease)duetochangein
FortheyearendedOctober31
AveragebalanceAveragerateTotal
AveragebalanceAveragerateTotal
AssetsCanadianDollar

Depositswithotherbanks
(11)4(7)
112
Securities208(471)(263)
42(23)19
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreements
4(16)(12)
16(127)(111)
LoansResidentialmortgages
266(63)203
352(182)170
Non-residentialmortgages
–(13)(13)
–(24)(24)
Personalandcreditcards
4488132
82(45)37
Businessesandgovernments
134(136)(2)
173(190)(17)
Totalloans
444(124)320
607(441)166
ChangeinCanadiandollarinterestincome
645(607)38
666(590)76
U.S.DollarandOtherCurrencies

Depositswithotherbanks
231033
(19)234
Securities72(111)(39)
10(149)(139)
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreements
–(19)(19)
15(47)(32)
LoansResidentialmortgages
(49)(73)(122)
(39)(32)(71)
Non-residentialmortgages
(21)(26)(47)
(57)(200)(257)
Personalandcreditcards
34(43)(9)
23(164)(141)
Businessesandgovernments
614(672)(58)
232(182)50
Totalloans
578(814)(236)
159(578)(419)
ChangeinU.S.dollarandothercurrenciesinterestincome
673(934)(261)
165(751)(586)
TotalAllCurrencies

Changeintotalinterestincome
(a)1,318(1,541)(223)
831(1,341)(510)
Liabilities
CanadianDollar

DepositsBanks(2)31
6–6
Businessesandgovernments
145(143)2
176(66)110
Individuals651075
11(31)(20)
Totaldeposits
208(130)78
193(97)96
Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchasedandsecuritieslentorsold
91(89)2
(126)14822
Subordinateddebtandotherinterestbearingliabilities
(107)(34)(141)
(205)7(198)
ChangeinCanadiandollarinterestexpense
192(253)(61)
(138)58(80)
U.S.DollarandOtherCurrencies

DepositsBanks6(18)(12)
–(2)(2)
Businessesandgovernments
7131102
78(70)8
Individuals3(32)(29)
1(48)(47)
Totaldeposits
80(19)61
79(120)(41)
Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchasedandsecuritieslentorsold
1(28)(27)
1(72)(71)
Subordinateddebtandotherinterestbearingliabilities
19120
26(84)(58)
ChangeinU.S.dollarandothercurrenciesinterestexpense
100(46)54
106(276)(170)
TotalAllCurrencies

Changeintotalinterestexpense
(b)292(299)(7)
(32)(218)(250)
Changeintotalnetinterestincome
(a-b)
1,026(1,242)(216)
863(1,123)(260)
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
111SupplementalInformation
SUPPLEMENTALINFORMATION
Table7:NetLoansandAcceptances–
SegmentedInformation
($millions)(6)(8)
CanadaUnitedStates
Othercountries
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
ConsumerResidentialmortgages
92,97288,67776,72968,19040,730
7,9557,6367,4167,9454,982
–––––Creditcards
7,4767,4137,3817,5643,056
496457433474252
–––––Consumerinstalmentand
otherpersonalloans
48,95549,19547,95545,58441,112
15,11314,37413,41913,80210,000
1––––Totalconsumer
149,403145,285132,065121,33884,898
23,56422,46721,26822,22115,234
1––––Totalbusinessesand
governments63,89657,96753,06950,73749,414
56,38945,84242,95541,20919,148
11,1458,9545,7484,6499,246
Totalloansandacceptances,
netofspecificallowances
213,299203,252185,134172,075134,312
79,95368,30964,22363,43034,382
11,1468,9545,7484,6499,246
Collectiveallowance
(795)(791)(705)(687)(595)
(747)(694)(755)(765)(702)
–––––Totalnetloansandacceptances
212,504202,461184,429171,388133,717
79,20667,61563,46862,66533,680
11,1468,9545,7484,6499,246
Table8:NetImpairedLoansandAcceptances–
SegmentedInformation
($millions,exceptasnoted)
CanadaUnitedStatesOthercountries
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
ConsumerResidentialmortgages
168157182178227
278359335221220
–––––Consumerinstalmentand
otherpersonalloans
1361006410196
33428427512879
–––––Totalconsumer
304257246279323
612643610349299
–––––Businessesandgovernments
247253377433372
5079441,2711,1081,279
4325240
Totalimpairedloansand
acceptances,netofspecific
allowances551510623712695
1,1191,5871,8811,4571,578
4325240
Collectiveallowance
(795)(791)(705)(687)(595)
(747)(694)(755)(765)(702)
–––––Totalnetimpairedloansand
acceptances(NIL)
(244)(281)(82)25100
3728931,126692876
4325240
ConditionRatios
(6)NILasa%ofnetloansand
acceptances(1)(2)
(0.12)
(0.14)(0.04)0.010.07
0.481.341.811.152.62
0.040.030.430.040.43
NILasa%ofnetloansand
acceptances(1)(2)(9)
Consumer0.200.180.190.230.38
2.602.872.871.571.96
–––––Businessesandgovernments
0.390.430.660.850.76
0.902.082.992.696.78
0.040.030.430.040.43
2010inTables7–15basedonCGAAP.
2011hasnotbeenrestatedtoreflectthenewIFRSstandardsadoptedin2014.
(1)Aggregatebalancesarenetofspecificandcollectiveallowances;theconsumerandbusinessesand
governmentscategoriesarestatednetofspecificallowancesonly.
(2)Ratioispresentedincludingpurchasedportfoliosandpriorperiodshavebeenrestated.
(3)Includesamountsreturningtoperformingstatus,sales,repayments,theimpactofforeignexchange,
andoffsetsforconsumerwrite-offsthatarenotrecognizedasformations.
(4)Resultsfor2010havenotbeenrestatedunderIFRSandarepresentedinaccordancewithCanadian
GAAPasdefinedatthetime.For2011,theallowanceforcreditlossesatthebeginningofyearhas

beenrestatedtocomplywiththerequirementsofIFRS.
(5)Effectivein2011,totalequityincludesnon-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries.In
addition,geographicallocationsarenotavailable,asequityisnotallocatedona

countryofriskbasis.
(6)Certainbalancesandratios(coverage,conditionandperformance)forfiscal2012
wererestatedinthefirstquarterof2013toconformtothecurrentperiod’s

presentation.(7)Amountsfor2014excludespecificallowancesof$50millionrelatedtoOtherCredit
Instruments(2013–$41million,2012–$29million,2011–$45million,2010–$9

million)includedinOtherLiabilities.
(8)Fiscal2013,2012,2011and2010balanceswerereclassifiedinthefirstquarterof
2014toconformtothecurrentperiod’spresentation.
(9)Certainconditionandperformanceratiosfor2013and2012wererestatedinthe
firstquarterof2014toconformtothecurrentperiod’spresentation.
un–unavailable
112BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
Total20142013201220112010
100,92796,31384,14576,13545,712
7,9727,8707,8148,0383,308
64,06963,56961,37459,38651,112
172,968167,752153,333143,559100,132
131,430112,763101,77296,59577,808
304,398280,515255,105240,154177,940
(1,542)(1,485)(1,460)(1,452)(1,297)
302,856279,030253,645238,702176,643
Total20142013201220112010
446516517399447
470384339229175
916900856628622
7581,2001,6731,5431,691
1,6742,1002,5292,1712,313
(1,542)(1,485)(1,460)(1,452)(1,297)
1326151,0697191,016
0.040.220.420.300.57
0.530.540.560.440.62
0.581.071.671.632.18
SupplementalInformation
Table9:NetLoansandAcceptances–
SegmentedInformation
($millions)(6)(8)
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
NetLoansandAcceptancesbyProvince
Atlanticprovinces
11,33111,24411,80110,6388,438
Quebec36,75833,74635,65028,48922,090
Ontario82,06880,72669,01468,55653,821
Prairieprovinces
42,31638,82534,43132,16225,045
BritishColumbiaandterritories
40,03137,92033,53331,54324,323
TotalnetloansandacceptancesinCanada
212,504202,461184,429171,388133,717
NetBusinessesandGovernmentsLoansbyIndustry

Commercialrealestate
17,63617,60618,72020,46812,633
Construction(non-realestate)
3,1012,9342,5392,4601,905
Retailtrade
12,58010,2299,0847,8296,042
Wholesaletrade
8,2817,3456,8215,8543,356
Agriculture9,1558,3807,3126,6535,550
Communications831729513564935
Manufacturing13,61211,2509,8709,3686,517
Mining1,085959662683267
Oilandgas
5,9433,9083,4663,4773,688
Transportation2,5322,1522,1092,0091,341
Utilities1,6701,3091,1708421,104
Forestproducts
587631592529419
Serviceindustries
22,11418,32114,99213,8729,906
Financialinstitutions
24,09619,01915,11314,70917,267
Government2,0761,7191,295810614
Other6,1316,2727,5146,4686,264
131,430112,763101,77296,59577,808
Table10:NetImpairedLoansandAcceptances–
SegmentedInformation
($inmillions)(8)
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
NetImpairedBusinessesandGovernmentsLoans

Commercialrealestate
159379803637651
Construction(non-realestate)
8432514579
Retailtrade
3874689892
Wholesaletrade
3564583245
Agriculture10311813113586
Communications59–571Manufacturing1007412687141
Mining2553–
Oilandgas
130129
Transportation723414229
Utilities––626Forestproducts
1319243672
Serviceindustries
145246263169205
Financialinstitutions
9––181219
Government2616812
Other175236654
7581,2001,6731,5431,691
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
113SupplementalInformation
SUPPLEMENTALINFORMATION
Table11:ChangesinGrossImpairedLoans–
SegmentedInformation
($millions)
CanadaUnitedStates
Othercountries
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
Grossimpairedloansandacceptances(GIL),
beginningofyear
Consumer348338371412417
702646388309194
–––––
Businessesandgovernments
406548586540533
1,0811,4011,3261,5511,967
7431482186
TotalGIL,beginningofyear
754886957952950
1,7832,0471,7141,8602,161
7431482186
Additionstoimpairedloansand
acceptances
Consumer643584533573567
529637764333374
–––––
Businessesandgovernments
285294352424410
6859311,416661978
–33611
Totaladditions
928878885997977
1,2141,5682,1809941,352
–33611
Reductionstoimpairedloansand
acceptances(3)Consumer(431)(416)(386)(413)(352)
(321)(243)(45)744
–––––
Businessesandgovernments
(224)(274)(314)(242)(287)
(859)(973)(880)(597)(1,052)
(2)(36)(6)(40)(103)
Totalreductionsduetonetrepayments
andother
(655)(690)(700)(655)(639)
(1,180)(1,216)(925)(590)(1,008)
(2)(36)(6)(40)(103)
Write-offsConsumer(162)(158)(180)(201)(220)
(232)(338)(461)(261)(303)
–––––
Businessesandgovernments
(123)(162)(76)(136)(116)
(284)(278)(461)(289)(342)
–(3)(1)(29)(2)
Totalwrite-offs
(285)(320)(256)(337)(336)
(516)(616)(922)(550)(645)
–(3)(1)(29)(2)
Grossimpairedloansandacceptances,
endofyear

Consumer398348338371412
678702646388309
–––––
Businessesandgovernments
344406548586540
6231,0811,4011,3261,551
57431482
TotalGIL,endofyear
742754886957952
1,3011,7832,0471,7141,860
57431482
ConditionRatios

GILasa%ofGrossLoans
(6)Consumer0.270.240.260.310.48
2.873.123.031.742.03
–––––
Businessesandgovernments
0.540.681.001.151.11
1.102.343.283.207.99
0.040.100.910.300.88
TotalLoansandAcceptances
0.350.370.470.560.71
1.622.603.202.695.37
0.040.100.910.300.88
GILasa%ofequityandallowancefor
creditlosses
(2)(5)(9)
ununununun
ununununun
ununununun
114BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
Total20142013201220112010
1,050984759721611
1,4941,9921,9262,1732,686
2,5442,9762,6852,8943,297
1,1721,2211,297906941
9701,2281,8041,0861,389
2,1422,4493,1011,9922,330
(752)
(659)(431)(406)(308)
(1,085)(1,283)(1,200)(879)(1,442)
(1,837)
(1,942)(1,631)(1,285)(1,750)
(394)(496)(641)(462)(523)
(407)(443)(538)(454)(460)
(801)(939)(1,179)(916)(983)
1,0761,050984759721
9721,4941,9921,9262,173
2,0482,5442,9762,6852,894
0.620.630.640.530.71
0.741.321.951.992.80
0.670.911.171.121.62
5.497.689.468.9812.18
115SupplementalInformation
SUPPLEMENTALINFORMATION
Table12:ChangesinAllowanceforCreditLosses–
SegmentedInformation
($millions,exceptasnoted)(8)
CanadaUnitedStates
Othercountries
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
Allowanceforcreditlosses(ACL),
beginningofyear
Consumer602518464454327
27829127014541
–––––Businessesandgovernments
433450468473503
653659797859970
418124261
TotalACL,beginningofyear
1,035968932927830
9319501,0671,0041,011
418124261
Provisionforcreditlosses
Consumer436521543527359
202262401350324
–––––Businessesandgovernments
9713390152126
(172)
(327)(267)184249
(2)(2)(3)(1)(9)
Totalprovisionforcreditlosses
533654633679485
30(65)134534573
(2)(2)(3)(1)(9)
RecoveriesConsumer9981918076
102951256161
–––––Businessesandgovernments
15(1)41(3)
4085976269949
–––––Totalrecoveries
11480958173
510692751160110
–––––Write-offsConsumer(500)
(507)(563)(587)(430)
(242)(347)(492)(289)(322)
–––––Businessesandgovernments
(122)
(160)(76)(136)(114)
(285)(280)(461)(289)(348)
–(3)(1)(29)(2)
Totalwrite-offs
(622)(667)(639)(723)(544)
(527)(627)(953)(578)(670)
–(3)(1)(29)(2)
Other,includingforeignexchangerate
changes
Consumer(22)(11)(17)(10)(14)
(7)(23)(13)339
–––––Businessesandgovernments
(52)11(36)(22)22
424(36)(56)(70)
(1)(9)10–(8)
TotalOther,includingforeign
exchangeratechanges
(74)–(53)(32)
835(19)(49)(53)(31)
(1)(9)10–(8)
ACL,endofyear
(4)Consumer615602518464318
333278291270143
–––––Businessesandgovernments
371433450468534
646653659797850
14181242
TotalACL,endofyear
9861,035968932852
9799319501,067993
14181242
AllocationofWrite-offsbyMarket

Consumer(500)
(507)(563)(587)(430)
(242)(347)(492)(289)(322)
–––––Businessesandgovernments
(122)
(160)(76)(136)(114)
(285)(280)(461)(289)(348)
–(3)(1)(29)(2)
AllocationofRecoveriesbyMarket

Consumer9981918076
102
951256161
–––––Businessesandgovernments
15(1)41(3)
4085976269949
–––––Netwrite-offsasa%ofaverageloans
andacceptances
(2)(6)
ununununun
ununununun
ununununun
Table13:AllocationofAllowanceforCreditLosses–
SegmentedInformation
($millions,exceptasnoted)
CanadaUnitedStatesOthercountries
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
20142013201220112010
ConsumerResidentialmortgages
2027363842
6652303410
–––––Consumerinstalmentandother
personalloans
7464555447
–775–
–––––Totalconsumer
9491919289
6659373910
–––––Businessesandgovernments
97153172153168
116137129218272
14181242
Off-balancesheet
–––––
504129459
–––––Totalspecificallowances
191244263245257
232237195302291
14181242
Collectiveallowance
795791705687595
747694755765702
–––––Allowanceforcreditlosses
9861,035968932852
9799319501,067993
14181242
CoverageRatios

Allowanceforcreditlossesasa%of
grossimpairedloans

andacceptances(GIL)
(2)Total132.9137.3109.397.489.5
71.449.945.059.652.9
20.057.141.985.751.2
Consumer23.626.227.024.821.6
9.98.45.710.13.2
–––––Businessesandgovernments
28.237.731.326.131.1
18.512.79.216.417.5
20.057.141.985.751.2
116BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
Total20142013201220112010
880809734599368
1,0901,1271,2771,3741,534
1,9701,9362,0111,9731,902
638783944877683
(77)(196)(180)335366
5615877641,2121,049
201
176216141137
423
59663010046
624772846241183
(742)
(854)(1,055)(876)(752)
(407)
(443)(538)(454)(464)
(1,149)(1,297)(1,593)(1,330)(1,216)
(7)(34)(30)(7)25
(33)6(62)(78)(56)
(40)(28)(92)(85)(31)
948880809734461
1,0181,0901,1271,2771,426
1,9661,9701,9362,0111,887
(741)(854)(1,055)(876)(752)
(408)(443)(538)(454)(464)
201
176216141137
423
59663010046
0.180.200.300.510.60
Total20142013201220112010
8679667252
7471625947
160
15012813199
214
294319383482
504129459
424485476559590
1,5421,4851,4601,4521,297
1,9661,9701,9362,0111,887
93.675.864.173.264.9
14.914.313.117.313.7
22.019.716.019.922.2
117SupplementalInformation
SUPPLEMENTALINFORMATION
Table14:SpecificAllowancesforCreditLosses–
SegmentedInformation
($millions)(8)
AsatOctober31
20142013201220112010
BusinessesandGovernmentsSpecific
AllowancesbyIndustry

Commercialrealestate
13467913698
Construction(non-realestate)
1626221942
Retailtrade
813171514
Wholesaletrade
10256824
Agriculture8911818
Communications––1–1
Manufacturing3336673787
Mining103–––
Oilandgas
–1232
Transportation242911
Utilities––1––
Forestproducts
911151415
Serviceindustries
10059755161
Financialinstitutions
229863101
Government–1122
Other33112186
Totalspecificallowancesforcreditlossesonbusinessesandgovernmentsloans
(7)214
294319383482
Table15:ProvisionforCreditLosses–
SegmentedInformation
($millions)(8)
FortheyearendedOctober31
20142013201220112010
Consumer
Residentialmortgages
77129132109107
Cards268305355376194
Consumerinstalmentandotherpersonalloans
251313387291329
Totalconsumer
596747874776630
BusinessesandGovernments

Commercialrealestate
(141)
(185)(108)132140
Construction(non-realestate)
736(14)2149
Retailtrade
1(4)–722
Wholesaletrade
2910(16)(1)9
Agriculture158478
Communications–(6)(5)(9)8
Manufacturing44225479
Mining72(1)––
Oilandgas
–––1(1)
Transportation10(9)5819
Utilities–––––
Forestproducts
(1)374(4)
Serviceindustries
80(37)237695
Financialinstitutions
(34)(15)(29)4566
Government(3)(6)–––
Other(49)51(4)12(1)
Totalbusinessesandgovernments
(35)(150)(113)350419
Totalspecificprovisions
5615977611,1261,049
Collectiveprovisionforcreditlosses
–(10)386–
Totalprovisionforcreditlosses
5615877641,2121,049
PerformanceRatios
(%)PCL-to-averagenetloansandacceptances
(2)(6)
0.190.220.310.560.61
PCL-to-segmentedaveragenetloansandacceptances
(6)Consumer0.370.490.620.570.66
Businessesandgovernments
(0.06)
(0.18)(0.15)0.450.55
SpecificPCL-to-averagenetloansandacceptances
0.190.230.310.520.61
118BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
SupplementalInformation
Table16:Risk-WeightedAssets
($millions)
BaselIII
ExposureatDefaultRisk-weightedassets
ExposureatDefaultRisk-weightedassets
AsatOctober31
StandardizedApproachAdvancedApproach2014TotalStandardizedApproachAdvancedApproach(2)2014TotalStandardizedApproachAdvancedApproach2013TotalStandardizedApproachAdvancedApproach(2)
2013TotalCreditRisk
WholesaleCorporate,including
specializedlending
16,890179,737196,62716,94264,39881,340
15,501141,345156,84616,55962,11278,671
Corporatesmalland
medium-sizedenterprises
–59,82159,821–33,64433,644
–57,40657,406–26,59426,594
Sovereign12467,61667,740631,5491,612
6767,81067,877–904904
Bank32633,18733,5133283,8584,186
21929,82530,044444,4044,448
RetailResidentialmortgages,
excludinghomeequityline
ofcredit
3,29890,30393,6011,7365,8827,618
4,16384,43488,5972,2256,4868,711
Homeequitylineofcredit
1,09541,33742,4328095,7326,541
1,53241,29142,8238415,7386,579
Qualifyingrevolvingretail
–28,89528,895–4,0004,000
–33,31433,314–4,5804,580
Otherretail,excluding
smallandmedium-sized

enterprises2,19917,82420,0231,5198,3079,826
3,20623,96227,1682,09710,31312,410
Retailsmallandmedium-sized
enterprises2923,2623,5542311,3731,604
3373,2203,5572661,2691,535
Equity–1,9241,924–1,3621,362
–1,8871,887–1,3661,366
Tradingbook
122133,942134,0641227,2377,359
5872,23972,297506,0876,137
Securitization–28,11528,115–3,0983,098
–22,40722,407–4,5984,598
Othercreditriskassets–non-
counterpartymanagedassets
–30,74630,746–14,94614,946
–73,22973,229–14,82214,822
Scalingfactorforcreditrisk
assetsunderAIRBApproach
(1)–––
–8,2518,251
––––7,9347,934
TotalCreditRisk
24,346716,709741,05521,750163,637185,387
25,083652,369677,45222,082157,207179,289
MarketRisk
–––1,7197,2839,002
–––2,3586,7969,154
OperationalRisk
–––3,79123,91227,703
–––26,651–26,651
CommonEquityTier1(CET1)Capital
Risk-WeightedAssets
24,346716,709741,05527,260194,832222,092
25,083652,369677,45251,091164,003215,094
AdditionalCreditValuation
Adjustment(CVA),prescribed

byOSFI,forTier1Capital
–––
–336336
––––––
Tier1CapitalRisk-WeightedAssets
27,260195,168222,428
51,091164,003215,094
AdditionalCVA,prescribedbyOSFI,
forTotalCapital
–––
–503503
––––––
TotalCapitalRisk-WeightedAssets
27,260195,671222,931
51,091164,003215,094
(1)Thescalingfactorisappliedtotherisk-weightedassetsamountsforcreditriskundertheAIRBApproach.
(2)TheAIRBApproachRWAforBMOHarrisBankisadjustedtoatransitionalfloorbasedontheStandardizedApproach.
Table17:AverageDeposits
($millions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
AveragebalanceAverageratepaid(%)
AveragebalanceAverageratepaid(%)
AveragebalanceAverageratepaid(%)
DepositsBookedinCanada
Demanddeposits–interestbearing
16,4690.45
16,0500.4715,2920.55
Demanddeposits–non-interestbearing
26,702–
24,400–23,402–
Payableafternotice
76,9030.70
71,8200.6760,1170.56
Payableonafixeddate
118,0941.44
100,1181.6393,8071.75
TotaldepositsbookedinCanada
238,1680.97
212,3881.03192,6181.07
DepositsBookedintheUnitedStatesandOtherCountries

BankslocatedintheUnitedStatesandothercountries
8,1950.28
9,3080.359,2120.50
GovernmentsandinstitutionsintheUnitedStatesandothercountries
12,0950.36
9,2830.428,3810.35
Otherdemanddeposits
12,7440.02
9,3050.037,5460.02
Otherdepositspayableafternoticeoronafixeddate
127,3890.38
117,4460.39105,2130.51
TotaldepositsbookedintheUnitedStatesandothercountries
160,4230.35
145,3420.36130,3520.47
Totalaveragedeposits
398,5910.72
357,7300.76322,9700.83
AsatOctober31,2014,2013and2012:depositsbyforeigndepositorsinourCanadianbankofficesamountedto$30,622million,$19,248millionand$24
,665million,respectively;totaldepositspayable
afternoticeincluded$33,109million,$33,014millionand$30,240million,respectively,ofchequingaccountsthatwouldhavebeenclassifiedasd
emanddepositsunderU.S.reportingrequirements;and
totaldepositspayableonafixeddateincluded$17,738million,$19,044millionand$14,271million,respectively,offederalfundspurchased,com
mercialpaperissuedandotherdepositliabilities.These
amountswouldhavebeenclassifiedasshort-termborrowingsforU.S.reportingpurposes.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
119StatementofManagement’sResponsibility
forFinancialInformation
ManagementofBankofMontreal(the“bank”)isresponsibleforthe
preparationandpresentationoftheannualconsolidatedfinancial

statements,Management’sDiscussionandAnalysis(“MD&A”)andall

otherinformationintheAnnualReport.
Theconsolidatedfinancialstatementshavebeenpreparedin
accordancewithInternationalFinancialReportingStandards(“IFRS”)as

issuedbytheInternationalAccountingStandardsBoardandmeetthe

applicablerequirementsoftheCanadianSecuritiesAdministrators

(“CSA”)andtheSecuritiesandExchangeCommission(“SEC”)inthe

UnitedStates.Thefinancialstatementsalsocomplywiththeprovisions

ofthe
BankAct(Canada)
andrelatedregulations,including
interpretationsofIFRSbyourregulator,theOfficeoftheSuperintendent

ofFinancialInstitutionsCanada.
TheMD&Ahasbeenpreparedinaccordancewiththerequirements
ofsecuritiesregulators,includingNationalInstrument51-102,

ContinuousDisclosureObligations
oftheCSA,aswellasItem303,
Management’sdiscussionandanalysisoffinancialconditionandresults

ofoperations
ofRegulationS-KundertheUnitedStates
SecuritiesActof
1933andthe
SecuritiesExchangeActof1934,
andtheirrelated
publishedrequirements.
TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsandinformationintheMD&A
necessarilyincludeamountsbasedoninformedjudgmentsand

estimatesoftheexpectedeffectsofcurrenteventsandtransactions

withappropriateconsiderationtomateriality.Inaddition,inpreparing

thefinancialinformationwemustinterprettherequirementsdescribed

above,makedeterminationsastotherelevancyofinformationtobe

included,andmakeestimatesandassumptionsthataffectreported

information.TheMD&Aalsoincludesinformationregardingtheimpact

ofcurrenttransactionsandevents,sourcesofliquidityandcapital

resources,operatingtrends,andrisksanduncertainties.Actualresultsin

thefuturemaydiffermateriallyfromourpresentassessmentofthis

informationbecauseeventsandcircumstancesinthefuturemaynot

occurasexpected.
Thefinancialinformationpresentedinthebank’sAnnualReportis
consistentwiththatintheconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
Inmeetingourresponsibilityforthereliabilityandtimelinessof
financialinformation,wemaintainandrelyonacomprehensivesystem

ofinternalcontrols,includingorganizationalandproceduralcontrols,

disclosurecontrolsandprocedures,andinternalcontroloverfinancial

reporting.Oursystemofinternalcontrolsincludeswritten

communicationofourpoliciesandproceduresgoverningcorporate

conductandriskmanagement;comprehensivebusinessplanning;

effectivesegregationofduties;delegationofauthorityandpersonal

accountability;escalationofrelevantinformationfordecisionsregarding
publicdisclosure;carefulselectionandtrainingofpersonnel;and

accountingpoliciesthatweregularlyupdate.Ourinternalcontrolsare

designedtoprovidereasonableassurancethattransactionsare

authorized,assetsaresafeguardedandproperrecordsaremaintained,

andthatweareincompliancewithallregulatoryrequirements.The

systemofinternalcontrolsisfurthersupportedbyacompliance

function,whichisdesignedtoensurethatweandouremployees

complywithsecuritieslegislationandconflictofinterestrules,andby

aninternalauditstaff,whoconductperiodicauditsofallaspectsofour

operations.AsofOctober31,2014,we,asthebank’sChiefExecutiveOfficer
andChiefFinancialOfficer,havedeterminedthatthebank’sinternal

controloverfinancialreportingiseffective.WehavecertifiedBankof

Montreal’sannualfilingswiththeCSAandwiththeSECpursuantto

NationalInstrument52-109,
CertificationofDisclosureinIssuers’Annual
andInterimFilings
andthe
SecuritiesExchangeActof1934.
Inordertoprovidetheirauditopinionsonourconsolidatedfinancial
statementsandonthebank’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,

theShareholders’Auditorsauditoursystemofinternalcontrolsover

financialreportingandconductworktotheextentthattheyconsider

appropriate.Theirauditopiniononthebank’sinternalcontrolover

financialreportingasofOctober31,2014issetforthonpage122.
TheBoardofDirectors,basedonrecommendationsfromitsAudit
andConductReviewCommittee,reviewsandapprovesthefinancial

informationcontainedintheAnnualReport,includingtheMD&A.The

BoardofDirectorsanditsrelevantcommitteesoverseemanagement’s

responsibilitiesforthepreparationandpresentationoffinancial

information,maintenanceofappropriateinternalcontrols,compliance

withlegalandregulatoryrequirements,managementandcontrolof

majorriskareas,andassessmentofsignificantandrelated

partytransactions.
TheAuditandConductReviewCommittee,whichiscomprised
entirelyofindependentdirectors,isalsoresponsibleforselectingthe

Shareholders’Auditorsandforreviewingthequalifications,

independenceandperformanceofboththeShareholders’Auditorsand

internalaudit.TheShareholders’Auditorsandthebank’sChiefAuditor

havefullandfreeaccesstotheBoardofDirectors,itsAuditandConduct

ReviewCommitteeandotherrelevantcommitteestodiscussaudit,

financialreportingandrelatedmatters.
TheOfficeoftheSuperintendentofFinancialInstitutionsCanada
conductsexaminationsandinquiriesintotheaffairsofthebankasare

deemednecessarytoensurethattheprovisionsofthe
BankAct,
withrespecttothesafetyofthedepositors,arebeingdulyobservedandthat

thebankisinsoundfinancialcondition.
WilliamA.Downe
ThomasE.Flynn
Toronto,Canada
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
ChiefFinancialOfficer
December2,2014
120BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
IndependentAuditors’ReportofRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheShareholdersandBoardofDirectors
ofBankofMontreal
Wehaveauditedtheaccompanyingconsolidatedfinancialstatementsof
BankofMontreal(the“Bank”),whichcomprisetheconsolidatedbalance

sheetsasatOctober31,2014andOctober31,2013,theconsolidated

statementsofincome,comprehensiveincome,changesinequityand

cashflowsforeachoftheyearsinthethree-yearperiodended

October31,2014,andnotes,comprisingasummaryofsignificant

accountingpoliciesandotherexplanatoryinformation.
Management’sResponsibilityfortheConsolidatedFinancial
Statements
Managementisresponsibleforthepreparationandfairpresentationof

theseconsolidatedfinancialstatementsinaccordancewithInternational

FinancialReportingStandardsasissuedbytheInternationalAccounting

StandardsBoard,andforsuchinternalcontrolasmanagement

determinesisnecessarytoenablethepreparationofconsolidated

financialstatementsthatarefreefrommaterialmisstatement,whether

duetofraudorerror.
Auditors’Responsibility
Ourresponsibilityistoexpressanopinionontheseconsolidated

financialstatementsbasedonouraudits.Weconductedourauditsin

accordancewithCanadiangenerallyacceptedauditingstandardsandthe

standardsofthePublicCompanyAccountingOversightBoard(United

States).Thosestandardsrequirethatwecomplywithethical

requirementsandplanandperformtheaudittoobtainreasonable

assuranceaboutwhethertheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsarefree

frommaterialmisstatement.
Anauditinvolvesperformingprocedurestoobtainauditevidence
abouttheamountsanddisclosuresintheconsolidatedfinancial

statements.Theproceduresselecteddependonourjudgment,including

theassessmentoftherisksofmaterialmisstatementoftheconsolidated

financialstatements,whetherduetofraudorerror.Inmakingthoserisk

assessments,weconsiderinternalcontrolrelevanttotheentity’s

preparationandfairpresentationoftheconsolidatedfinancialstatements
inordertodesignauditproceduresthatareappropriateinthe

circumstances.Anauditalsoincludesevaluatingtheappropriatenessof

accountingpoliciesusedandthereasonablenessofaccountingestimates

madebymanagement,aswellasevaluatingtheoverallpresentationof

theconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
Webelievethattheauditevidencewehaveobtainedinouraudits
issufficientandappropriatetoprovideabasisforourauditopinion.
OpinionInouropinion,theconsolidatedfinancialstatementspresentfairly,inall

materialrespects,theconsolidatedfinancialpositionoftheBankasat

October31,2014andOctober31,2013,anditsconsolidatedfinancial

performanceanditsconsolidatedcashflowsforeachoftheyearsinthe

three-yearperiodendedOctober31,2014inaccordancewith

InternationalFinancialReportingStandardsasissuedbythe

InternationalAccountingStandardsBoard.
OtherMatter
Wealsohaveaudited,inaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublic

CompanyAccountingOversightBoard(UnitedStates),theBank’s

internalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofOctober31,2014,basedon

thecriteriaestablishedinInternalControl–IntegratedFramework

(2013)issuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsofthe

TreadwayCommission(COSO),andourreportdatedDecember2,2014

expressedanunmodified(unqualified)opinionontheeffectivenessof

theBank’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
CharteredProfessionalAccountants,LicensedPublicAccountants

December2,2014

Toronto,Canada
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
121ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheShareholdersandBoardofDirectors
ofBankofMontreal
WehaveauditedBankofMontreal’s(the“Bank”)internalcontrolover
financialreportingasofOctober31,2014,basedoncriteriaestablished

inInternalControl–IntegratedFramework(2013)issuedbythe

CommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission

(COSO).TheBank’smanagementisresponsibleformaintainingeffective

internalcontroloverfinancialreportingandforitsassessmentofthe

effectivenessofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,includedunder

theheading“Management’sAnnualReportonDisclosureControlsand

ProceduresandInternalControloverFinancialReporting”inthe

accompanyingManagement’sDiscussionandAnalysis.Ourresponsibility

istoexpressanopinionontheBank’sinternalcontroloverfinancial

reportingbasedonouraudit.
Weconductedourauditinaccordancewiththestandardsofthe
PublicCompanyAccountingOversightBoard(UnitedStates).Those

standardsrequirethatweplanandperformtheaudittoobtain

reasonableassuranceaboutwhethereffectiveinternalcontrolover

financialreportingwasmaintainedinallmaterialrespects.Ouraudit

includedobtaininganunderstandingofinternalcontroloverfinancial

reporting,assessingtheriskthatamaterialweaknessexists,andtesting

andevaluatingthedesignandoperatingeffectivenessofinternalcontrol

basedontheassessedrisk.Ourauditalsoincludedperformingsuch

otherproceduresasweconsiderednecessaryinthecircumstances.We

believethatourauditprovidesareasonablebasisforouropinion.
Acompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisaprocess
designedtoprovidereasonableassuranceregardingthereliabilityof

financialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsfor

externalpurposesinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccounting

principles.Acompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingincludes

thosepoliciesandproceduresthat(1)pertaintothemaintenanceof

recordsthat,inreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairlyreflectthe

transactionsanddispositionsoftheassetsofthecompany;(2)provide

reasonableassurancethattransactionsarerecordedasnecessaryto

permitpreparationoffinancialstatementsinaccordancewithgenerally
acceptedaccountingprinciples,andthatreceiptsandexpendituresof

thecompanyarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsof

managementanddirectorsofthecompany;and(3)providereasonable

assuranceregardingpreventionortimelydetectionofunauthorized

acquisition,use,ordispositionofthecompany’sassetsthatcouldhavea

materialeffectonthefinancialstatements.
Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancial
reportingmaynotpreventordetectmisstatements.Also,projectionsof

anyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotherisk

thatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseofchangesinconditions,

orthatthedegreeofcompliancewiththepoliciesorproceduresmay

deteriorate.Inouropinion,theBankmaintained,inallmaterialrespects,
effectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofOctober31,2014,

basedoncriteriaestablishedinInternalControl–IntegratedFramework

(2013)issuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsofthe

TreadwayCommission(COSO).
Wealsohaveaudited,inaccordancewithCanadiangenerally
acceptedauditingstandardsandthestandardsofthePublicCompany

AccountingOversightBoard(UnitedStates),theconsolidatedbalance

sheetsoftheBankasatOctober31,2014and2013,theconsolidated

statementsofincome,comprehensiveincome,changesinequityand

cashflowsforeachoftheyearsinthethree-yearperiodended

October31,2014,andnotes,comprisingasummaryofsignificant

accountingpoliciesandotherexplanatoryinformation,andourreport

datedDecember2,2014expressedanunmodified(unqualified)opinion

onthoseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
CharteredProfessionalAccountants,LicensedPublicAccountants

December2,2014

Toronto,Canada
122BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
ConsolidatedFinancialStatements
ConsolidatedStatementofIncome
FortheYearEndedOctober31(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
Interest,DividendandFeeIncome
Loans$10,777
$10,745$11,142
Securities(Note3)
1,9942,2762,396Depositswithbanks
270244238
13,04113,26513,776
InterestExpense

Deposits2,8652,7272,672Subordinateddebt
150145165
Otherliabilities
1,5651,7162,0024,5804,5884,839NetInterestIncome
8,4618,6778,937Non-InterestRevenue

Securitiescommissionsandfees
934846825
Depositandpaymentservicecharges
1,002916929
Tradingrevenues
9498491,025
Lendingfees
680603544
Cardfees
462461441
Investmentmanagementandcustodialfees
1,246971967
Mutualfundrevenues
1,073832665
Underwritingandadvisoryfees
744659600
Securitiesgains,otherthantrading
(Note3)
162285152
Foreignexchange,otherthantrading
179172153
Insuranceincome
503445335
Other323347356
8,2577,3866,992TotalRevenue
16,71816,06315,929
ProvisionforCreditLosses
(Note4)
561587764
Non-InterestExpense

Employeecompensation
(Notes23and24)
6,2425,8425,613Premisesandequipment
(Note11)
1,9081,8331,875Amortizationofintangibleassets
(Note13)
382346331
Travelandbusinessdevelopment
542514491
Communications289291301
Businessandcapitaltaxes
393946
Professionalfees
622527593
Other897834885
10,92110,22610,135
IncomeBeforeProvisionforIncomeTaxes
5,2365,2505,030Provisionforincometaxes
(Note25)
9031,055874
NetIncome
$4,333
$4,195$4,156
Attributableto:
Bankshareholders
4,2774,1304,082Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
(Notes18and20)
566574
NetIncome
$4,333
$4,195$4,156
EarningsPerShare
(Canadian$)(Note26)
Basic$6.44
$6.19$6.13
Diluted6.416.176.10
Theaccompanyingnotesareanintegralpartoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’spresentationandforchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
WilliamA.Downe
PhilipS.Orsino
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
Chairman,AuditandConductReviewCommittee
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
123ConsolidatedFinancialStatements
CONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncome
FortheYearEndedOctober31(Canadian$inmillions)
201420132012
Netincome
$4,333
$4,195$4,156
OtherComprehensiveIncome(Loss)
Itemsthatwillnotbereclassifiedtonetincome
Re-measurementofpensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitplans
(1)(125)298(440)
(125)298(440)
Itemsthatmaysubsequentlybereclassifiedtonetincome
Netchangeinunrealizedgains(losses)onavailable-for-salesecurities
Unrealizedgains(losses)onavailable-for-salesecuritiesarisingduringtheyear
(2)28(10)24
Reclassificationtoearningsof(gains)intheyear
(3)(77)(50)(81)
(49)(60)(57)
Netchangeinunrealizedgains(losses)oncashflowhedges
Gains(losses)oncashflowhedgesarisingduringtheyear
(4)247(25)(62)
Reclassificationtoearningsof(gains)oncashflowhedges
(5)(98)(125)(107)
149(150)(169)
Netgainontranslationofnetforeignoperations
Unrealizedgainontranslationofnetforeignoperations
1,37874175
Impactofhedgingunrealized(loss)ontranslationofnetforeignoperations
(6)(415)(409)(35)
96333240
OtherComprehensiveIncome(Loss)
938420(626)
TotalComprehensiveIncome
$5,271
$4,615$3,530
Attributableto:
Bankshareholders
5,2154,5503,456
Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
(Notes18and20)
566574
TotalComprehensiveIncome
$5,271
$4,615$3,530
(1)Netofincometax(provision)recoveryof$63million,($126)millionand$177millionfor
theyearended,respectively.
(2)Netofincometax(provision)recoveryof$(22)million,$9millionand$(13)millionforthe
yearended,respectively.
(3)Netofincometaxprovisionof$37million,$22millionand$39millionfortheyearended,
respectively.(4)Netofincometax(provision)recoveryof$(79)million,$12millionand$10millionforthe
yearended,respectively.
(5)Netofincometaxprovisionof$28million,$45millionand$38millionfortheyearended,
respectively.(6)Netofincometaxrecoveryof$144million,$146millionand$13millionfortheyearended,
respectively.Theaccompanyingnotesareanintegralpartoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’s
presentationandforchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
124BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
ConsolidatedFinancialStatements
ConsolidatedBalanceSheet
AsatOctober31(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013AssetsCashandCashEquivalents
(Note2)
$28,386
$26,089
InterestBearingDepositswithBanks
(Note2)
6,1106,518Securities(Note3)
Trading85,02275,159Available-for-sale46,96653,710Held-to-maturity10,3446,032Other987899143,319135,800SecuritiesBorrowedorPurchasedUnderResaleAgreements
(Note4)
53,55539,799Loans(Notes4and8)
Residentialmortgages
101,01396,392Consumerinstalmentandotherpersonal
64,14363,640Creditcards
7,9727,870Businessesandgovernments
120,766104,585293,894272,487Customers’liabilityunderacceptances
10,8788,472Allowanceforcreditlosses
(Note4)
(1,734)(1,665)303,038279,294OtherAssets

Derivativeinstruments
(Note10)
32,65530,259Premisesandequipment
(Note11)
2,2762,168Goodwill(Note13)
5,3533,819Intangibleassets
(Note13)
2,0521,511Currenttaxassets
6651,065Deferredtaxassets
(Note25)
3,0193,027Other(Note14)
8,2317,69554,25149,544TotalAssets
$588,659
$537,044
LiabilitiesandEquity

Deposits(Note15)
Banks$18,243
$20,591
Businessesandgovernments
239,139222,346Individuals135,706125,432393,088368,369OtherLiabilities

Derivativeinstruments
(Note10)
33,65731,974Acceptances(Note16)
10,8788,472Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchased
(Note16)
27,34822,446Securitieslentorsoldunderrepurchaseagreements
(Note16)
39,69528,884Currenttaxliabilities
235438Deferredtaxliabilities
(Note25)
178107Other(Note16)
43,26341,179155,254133,500SubordinatedDebt
(Note17)
4,9133,996Equity
Sharecapital
(Note20)
15,39714,268Contributedsurplus
304315Retainedearnings
17,23715,087Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome
1,375437Totalshareholders’equity
34,313
30,107Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
(Notes18and20)
1,0911,072TotalEquity
35,404
31,179TotalLiabilitiesandEquity
$588,659
$537,044
Theaccompanyingnotesareanintegralpartoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconf
ormwiththecurrentyear’s
presentationandforchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
125ConsolidatedFinancialStatements
CONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinEquity
FortheYearEndedOctober31(Canadian$inmillions)
201420132012
PreferredShares
(Note20)
Balanceatbeginningofyear
$2,265
$2,465$2,861
Issuedduringtheyear
1,200––Redeemedduringtheyear
(425)(200)(396)
BalanceatEndofYear
3,0402,2652,465
CommonShares
(Note20)
Balanceatbeginningofyear
12,00311,95711,332
IssuedundertheShareholderDividendReinvestmentandSharePurchasePlan
(Note20)
223130543
IssuedundertheStockOptionPlan
(Note23)
13111680
Repurchasedforcancellation
(Note20)
–(200)–
Issuedontheexchangeofsharesofasubsidiarycorporation
––2BalanceatEndofYear
12,35712,00311,957
ContributedSurplus
Balanceatbeginningofyear
315213113
Stockoptionexpense/exercised
(Note23)
(7)(5)4
Foreignexchangeonredemptionofpreferredshares
(Note20)
–10796
Other(4)––BalanceatEndofYear
304315213
RetainedEarnings

Balanceatbeginningofyear
15,08713,45611,330
Netincomeattributabletobankshareholders
4,2774,1304,082
Dividends–Preferredshares
(Note20)
(120)(120)(136)
–Commonshares
(Note20)
(1,991)(1,904)(1,820)
Commonsharesrepurchasedforcancellation
(Note20)
–(475)–
Shareissueexpense
(16)––BalanceatEndofYear
17,237
15,08713,456
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeonPensionandOtherPost-EmploymentPlans

Balanceatbeginningofyear
(165)(463)(23)
Re-measurementofpensionandotherpost-employmentplans
(1)(125)298(440)
BalanceatEndofYear
(290)
(165)(463)
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeonAvailable-for-SaleSecurities

Balanceatbeginningofyear
205265322
Unrealizedgains(losses)onavailable-for-salesecuritiesarisingduringtheyear
(2)28(10)24
Reclassificationtoearningsof(gains)intheyear
(3)(77)(50)(81)
BalanceatEndofYear
156205265
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeonCashFlowHedges

Balanceatbeginningofyear
(8)142311
Gains(losses)oncashflowhedgesarisingduringtheyear
(4)247(25)(62)
Reclassificationtoearningsof(gains)intheyear
(5)(98)(125)(107)
BalanceatEndofYear
141(8)142
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeonTranslationofNetForeignOperations

Balanceatbeginningofyear
4057333
Unrealizedgainontranslationofnetforeignoperations
1,37874175Impactofhedgingunrealized(loss)ontranslationofnetforeignoperations
(6)(415)(409)(35)
BalanceatEndofYear
1,36840573TotalAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome
1,37543717TotalShareholders’Equity
$34,313
$30,107$28,108
Non-controllingInterestinSubsidiaries

Balanceatbeginningofyear
1,0721,4351,483
Netincomeattributabletonon-controllinginterest
566574Dividendstonon-controllinginterest
(52)(73)(73)
Preferredshareredemption
(Note20)
–(359)–
Acquisitions(Note12)
22––Other(7)4(49)
BalanceatEndofYear
1,0911,0721,435
TotalEquity
$35,404
$31,179$29,543
(1)Netofincometax(provision)recoveryof$63million,$(126)millionand$177millionfor
theyearended,respectively.
(2)Netofincometax(provision)recoveryof$(22)million,$9millionand$(13)millionforthe
yearended,respectively.
(3)Netofincometaxprovisionof$37million,$22millionand$39millionfortheyearended,
respectively.(4)Netofincometax(provision)recoveryof$(79)million,$12millionand$10millionforthe
yearended,respectively.
(5)Netofincometaxprovisionof$28million,$45millionand$38millionfortheyearended,
respectively.(6)Netofincometaxrecoveryof$144million,$146millionand$13millionfortheyearended,
respectively.Theaccompanyingnotesareanintegralpartoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’s
presentationandforchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
126BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
ConsolidatedFinancialStatements
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
FortheYearEndedOctober31(Canadian$inmillions)
201420132012
CashFlowsfromOperatingActivities
NetIncome
$4,333
$4,195$4,156
Adjustmentstodeterminenetcashflowsprovidedby(usedin)operatingactivities
Impairmentwrite-downofsecurities,otherthantrading
(Note3)
8175
Net(gain)onsecurities,otherthantrading
(Note3)
(170)(302)(157)
Net(increase)intradingsecurities
(8,470)(4,392)(251)
Provisionforcreditlosses
(Note4)
561587764
Changeinderivativeinstruments–(Increase)decreaseinderivativeasset
(2,822)20,2406,646
–Increase(decrease)inderivativeliability
1,402(19,195)(1,826)
Amortizationofpremisesandequipment
(Note11)
365348351
Amortizationofintangibleassets
(Note13)
382346331
Netdecreaseindeferredincometaxasset
241203263
Net(decrease)indeferredincometaxliability
(42)(65)(143)
Netdecreaseincurrentincometaxasset
546389109
Netincrease(decrease)incurrentincometaxliability
(226)
21(185)
Changeinaccruedinterest–(Increase)decreaseininterestreceivable
(36)1229
–Increase(decrease)ininterestpayable
160(129)(89)
Changesinotheritemsandaccruals,net
4,094(364)(6,165)
Netincreaseindeposits
9,81435,73919,413
Net(increase)inloans
(15,207)
(21,665)(14,896)
Netincrease(decrease)insecuritiessoldbutnotyetpurchased
4,429(1,221)3,438
Netincrease(decrease)insecuritieslentorsoldunderrepurchaseagreements
9,073(12,090)7,848
Net(increase)decreaseinsecuritiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreements
(11,362)8,660(9,360)
NetCashProvidedby(Usedin)OperatingActivities
(2,927)
11,44410,261
CashFlowsfromFinancingActivities

Net(decrease)inliabilitiesofsubsidiaries
(48)
(397)(634)
Proceedsfromissuanceand(maturities)ofCoveredBonds
(Note15)
(406)(1,354)2,000
Proceedsfromissuance(repayment)ofsubordinateddebt
(Note17)
1,000–(1,200)
Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredshares
(Note20)
1,200––Redemptionofpreferredshares
(Note20)
(425)(200)(396)
Redemptionofsecuritiesofasubsidiary
(Note20)
–(359)–
RedemptionofCapitalTrustSecurities
––(400)
Shareissueexpense
(16)––Proceedsfromissuanceofcommonshares
(Note20)
13312288
Commonsharesrepurchasedforcancellation
(Note20)
–(675)–
Cashdividendspaid
(1,851)(1,896)(1,419)
Cashdividendspaidtonon-controllinginterest
(52)(73)(73)
NetCash(Usedin)FinancingActivities
(465)
(4,832)(2,034)
CashFlowsfromInvestingActivities

Net(increase)decreaseininterestbearingdepositswithbanks
77843(347)
Purchasesofsecurities,otherthantrading
(24,674)(32,007)(37,960)
Maturitiesofsecurities,otherthantrading
11,69813,23312,672
Proceedsfromsalesofsecurities,otherthantrading
17,18417,28818,868
Premisesandequipment–netpurchases
(355)
(361)(366)
Purchasedanddevelopedsoftware–netpurchases
(382)(254)(298)
Acquisitions(Note12)
(956)
140(21)
NetCashProvidedby(Usedin)InvestingActivities
3,293(1,918)(7,452)
EffectofExchangeRateChangesonCashandCashEquivalents
2,3961,480(489)
NetincreaseinCashandCashEquivalents
2,2976,174286
CashandCashEquivalentsatBeginningofYear
26,08919,91519,629
CashandCashEquivalentsatEndofYear
$28,386
$26,089$19,915
Representedby:

Cashandnon-interestbearingdepositswithBankofCanadaandotherbanks
$27,056
$24,679$18,363
Chequesandotheritemsintransit,net
1,3301,4101,552
$28,386
$26,089$19,915
SupplementalDisclosureofCashFlowInformation

Netcashprovidedbyoperatingactivitiesincludes:
Amountofinterestpaidintheyear
$4,407
$4,708$4,930
Amountofincometaxespaidintheyear
$264
$577$654
Amountofinterestanddividendincomereceivedintheyear
$12,849
$13,283$13,685
Theaccompanyingnotesareanintegralpartoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconf
ormwiththecurrentyear’spresentation
andforchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
127NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements
Note1:BasisofPresentation
BankofMontreal(“thebank”)isapubliccompanyincorporatedin
CanadahavingitsregisteredofficeinMontreal,Canada.Weareahighly

diversifiedfinancialservicescompanyandprovideabroadrangeof

retailbanking,wealthmanagementandinvestmentbankingproducts

andservices.ThebankisacharteredbankundertheBankAct(Canada).
Wehavepreparedthesefinancialstatementsinaccordancewith
InternationalFinancialReportingStandards(“IFRS”)asissuedbythe

InternationalAccountingStandardsBoard(“IASB”).Wealsocomplywith

interpretationsofIFRSbyourregulator,theOfficeoftheSuperintendent

ofFinancialInstitutionsCanada(“OSFI”).
Ourconsolidatedfinancialstatementshavebeenpreparedona
historiccostbasis,excepttherevaluationofthefollowingitems:assets

andliabilitiesheldfortrading;financialinstrumentsdesignatedatfair

valuethroughprofitorloss;available-for-salefinancialassets;financial

assetsandfinancialliabilitiesdesignatedashedgeditemsinqualifying

fairvaluehedgerelationships;cash-settledshare-basedpayment

liabilities;definedbenefitpensionandotheremployeefuturebenefit

liabilities;andinsurance-relatedliabilities.
Theseconsolidatedfinancialstatementswereauthorizedforissue
bytheBoardofDirectorsonDecember2,2014.
BasisofConsolidation
Theseconsolidatedfinancialstatementsareinclusiveofthefinancial

statementsofoursubsidiariesasatOctober31,2014.Weconduct

businessthroughavarietyofcorporatestructures,includingsubsidiaries,

jointventures,associatesandstructuredentities(“SEs”).Subsidiariesare

thoseentitieswhereweexercisecontrolthroughourownershipofthe

majorityofthevotingshares.Jointventuresarethoseentitieswherewe

exercisejointcontrolthroughanagreementwithothershareholders.

WealsoholdinterestsinSEs,whichweconsolidatewherewecontrol

theSE.ThesearemorefullydescribedinNote9.Alloftheassets,

liabilities,revenuesandexpensesofoursubsidiariesandconsolidated

SEsareincludedinourconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Jointventures

areaccountedforusingtheequitymethod,withourinvestment

recordedinsecurities,otherinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetandour

portionofearningsrecordedininterest,dividendandfeeincome,

securitiesinourConsolidatedStatementofIncome.Allsignificant

intercompanytransactionsandbalancesareeliminatedonconsolidation.
Weholdinvestmentsinassociates,whereweexertsignificant
influenceoveroperating,investingandfinancingdecisions(generally

companiesinwhichweownbetween20%and50%ofthevoting

shares).Thesearerecordedatcostandareadjustedforour

proportionateshareofanynetincomeorloss,othercomprehensive

incomeorlossanddividends.Theyarerecordedassecurities,otherin

ourConsolidatedBalanceSheetandourproportionateshareofthenet

incomeorlossofthesecompaniesisrecordedininterest,dividendand

feeincome,securities,inourConsolidatedStatementofIncome.
Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiariesispresentedinour
ConsolidatedBalanceSheetasaseparatecomponentofequitythatis

distinctfromourshareholders’equity.Thenetincomeattributableto

non-controllinginterestinsubsidiariesispresentedseparatelyinour

ConsolidatedStatementofIncome.
SpecificAccountingPolicies
Tofacilitateabetterunderstandingofourconsolidatedfinancial

statements,wehavedisclosedoursignificantaccountingpolicies

throughoutthefollowingnoteswiththerelatedfinancialdisclosuresby

majorcaption:
NoteTopic
PageNoteTopic
Page1BasisofPresentation
12820Equity
1612CashResourcesandInterest
BearingDepositswithBanks132
21OffsettingofFinancialAssets
andFinancialLiabilities163
3Securities
13222CapitalManagement
1634Loans,Customers’Liabilityunder
AcceptancesandAllowance
23EmployeeCompensation–
Stock-BasedCompensation164
forCreditLosses
13624EmployeeCompensation–
56OtherCreditInstruments

RiskManagement
139
140PensionandOtherEmployee

FutureBenefits
1667Guarantees
14225IncomeTaxes
1718AssetSecuritization
14326EarningsPerShare
1739
10StructuredEntities

DerivativeInstruments
144
14627OperatingandGeographic
Segmentation
173
11
12PremisesandEquipment

Acquisitions153
15328
29SignificantSubsidiaries

RelatedPartyTransactions
176
17713
14GoodwillandIntangibleAssets

OtherAssets
154
15630ProvisionsandContingent
Liabilities17815
16Deposits

OtherLiabilities
156
15731FairValueofFinancial
Instruments17817
18SubordinatedDebt

CapitalTrustSecurities
158
15932ContractualMaturitiesofAssets
andLiabilitiesandOff-Balance

SheetCommitments
18619InterestRateRisk
160
TranslationofForeignCurrencies
Weconductbusinessinavarietyofforeigncurrenciesandpresentour
consolidatedfinancialstatementsinCanadiandollars,whichisour

functionalcurrency.Monetaryassetsandliabilities,aswellasnon-

monetaryassetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatfairvaluethatare

denominatedinforeigncurrencies,aretranslatedintoCanadiandollars

attheexchangerateineffectatthebalancesheetdate.Non-monetary

assetsandliabilitiesnotmeasuredatfairvaluearetranslatedinto

Canadiandollarsathistoricalrates.Revenuesandexpenses

denominatedinforeigncurrenciesaretranslatedusingtheaverage

exchangeratefortheyear.
Unrealizedgainsandlossesarisingfromtranslatingournet
investmentinforeignoperationsintoCanadiandollars,netofrelated

hedgingactivitiesandapplicableincometaxes,areincludedinour

ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncomewithinnetgain(loss)

ontranslationofnetforeignoperations.Whenwedisposeofaforeign

operationsuchthatcontrol,significantinfluenceorjointcontrolislost,

thecumulativeamountofthetranslationgain(loss)andanyapplicable

hedgingactivitiesandrelatedincometaxesarereclassifiedtoprofitor

lossaspartofthegainorlossondisposition.Allotherforeigncurrency

translationgainsandlossesareincludedinforeignexchange,otherthan

trading,inourConsolidatedStatementofIncomeastheyarise.
Foreigncurrencytranslationgainsandlossesonavailable-for-sale
debtsecuritiesthataredenominatedinforeigncurrenciesareincluded

inforeignexchange,otherthantrading,inourConsolidatedStatement

ofIncome.
Fromtimetotime,weenterintoforeignexchangehedgecontracts
toreduceourexposuretochangesinthevalueofforeigncurrencies.

Realizedandunrealizedgainsandlossesthatariseonthemark-to-

marketofforeignexchangecontractsrelatedtoeconomichedgesare

includedinforeignexchange,otherthantrading,inourConsolidated

StatementofIncome.Changesinthefairvalueofforwardcontractsthat

qualifyasaccountinghedgesarerecordedinourConsolidated

StatementofComprehensiveIncome,withthespot/forwarddifferential

(thedifferencebetweentheforeigncurrencyrateattheinceptionofthe

contractandtherateattheendofthecontract)beingrecordedin

interestincome(expense)overthetermofthehedge.
128BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesOffsettingFinancialAssetsandFinancialLiabilities
Financialassetsandfinancialliabilitiesareoffsetandthenetamountis
reportedintheConsolidatedBalanceSheetwhenthereisalegally

enforceablerighttooffsettherecognizedamountsandthereisan

intentiontosettleonanetbasis,orrealizetheassetandsettlethe

liabilitysimultaneously.
DividendandFeeIncome
DividendIncome
Dividendincomeisrecognizedwhentherighttoreceivepaymentis

established.Thisistheex-dividenddateforlistedequitysecurities.
FeeIncome
Feeincome(includingcommissions)isrecognizedbasedontheservices

orproductsforwhichthefeeispaid.SeeNote4fortheaccounting

treatmentforlendingfees.
Securitiescommissionsandfeesandunderwritingandadvisory
feesarerecordedasrevenuewhentherelatedservicesarecompleted.
Depositandpaymentservicechargesandinsurancefeesare
recognizedovertheperiodthattherelatedservicesareprovided.
Cardfeesprimarilyincludeinterchangeincome,latefees,cash
advancefeesandannualfees.Cardfeesarerecordedasbilled,except

forannualfees,whicharerecordedevenlythroughouttheyear.
UseofEstimatesandJudgments
Thepreparationoftheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsrequires

managementtouseestimatesandassumptionsthataffectthecarrying

amountsofcertainassetsandliabilities,certainamountsreportedinnet

incomeandotherrelateddisclosures.
Themostsignificantassetsandliabilitiesforwhichwemustmake
estimatesincludeallowanceforcreditlosses;pensionandother

employeefuturebenefits;impairment;incometaxes;goodwilland

intangibleassets;insurance-relatedliabilities;purchasedloans;acquired

depositsandprovisions.Wemakejudgmentsinassessingwhether

substantiallyallrisksandrewardshavebeentransferredinrespectof

transfersoffinancialassetsandwhetherwecontrolSEs.These

judgmentsarediscussedinNotes8and9,respectively.Note31

discussesthejudgmentsmadeindeterminingthefairvalueoffinancial

instruments.Ifactualresultsweretodifferfromtheestimates,the

impactwouldberecordedinfutureperiods.
Wehaveestablisheddetailedpoliciesandcontrolproceduresthat
areintendedtoensurethesejudgmentsarewellcontrolled,

independentlyreviewedandconsistentlyappliedfromperiodtoperiod.

Webelievethatourestimatesofthevalueofourassetsandliabilities

areappropriate.
AllowanceforCreditLosses
Theallowanceforcreditlossesadjuststhevalueofloanstoreflecttheir

estimatedrealizablevalue.Inassessingtheirestimatedrealizablevalue,

wemustrelyonestimatesandexercisejudgmentregardingmattersfor

whichtheultimateoutcomeisunknown.Theseincludeeconomic

factors,developmentsaffectingcompaniesinparticularindustries,and

specificissueswithrespecttosingleborrowers.Changesin

circumstancesmaycausefutureassessmentsofcreditrisktobe

materiallydifferentfromcurrentassessments,whichcouldrequirean

increaseordecreaseintheallowanceforcreditlosses.
Additionalinformationregardingtheallowanceforcreditlossesis
includedinNote4.
PensionandOtherEmployeeFutureBenefits
Ourpensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitsexpenseiscalculated

byourindependentactuariesusingassumptionsdeterminedby

management.Ifactualexperiencediffersfromtheassumptionsused,

wewouldrecognizethisdifferenceinothercomprehensiveincome.
Pensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitsexpense,planassets
anddefinedbenefitobligationsarealsosensitivetochangesindiscount

rates.WedeterminediscountratesateachyearendforourCanadian

andU.S.plansusinghigh-qualityAAratedcorporatebondswithterms

matchingtheplans’specificcashflows.
Additionalinformationregardingouraccountingforpensionand
otheremployeefuturebenefitsisincludedinNote24.
ImpairmentofSecurities
Wereviewheld-to-maturity,available-for-saleandothersecuritiesat

eachquarter-endreportingperiodtoidentifyandevaluateinvestments

thatshowindicationsofpossibleimpairment.
Forheld-to-maturity,available-for-saleandothersecurities,
impairmentlossesarerecognizedifthereisobjectiveevidenceof

impairmentasaresultofaneventthatreducestheestimatedfuture

cashflowsfromthesecurityandtheimpactcanbereliablyestimated.

Objectiveevidenceofimpairmentincludesdefaultordelinquencybya

debtor,restructuringofanamountduetousontermsthatwewould

nototherwiseconsider,indicationsthatadebtororissuerwillenter

bankruptcy,orthedisappearanceofanactivemarketforasecurity.In

addition,forequitysecurities,asignificantorprolongeddeclineinthe

fairvalueofasecuritybelowitscostisobjectiveevidenceof

impairment.Thedecisiontorecordawrite-down,theamountandtheperiodin
whichitisrecordedcouldchangeifmanagement’sassessmentofthe

factorschanges.Wedonotrecordimpairmentwrite-downsondebt

securitieswhenimpairmentisduetochangesinmarketinterestrates,if

futurecontractualcashflowsassociatedwiththedebtsecurityarestill

expectedtoberecovered.
Additionalinformationregardingouraccountingforheld-to-
maturitysecurities,available-for-salesecuritiesandothersecuritiesand

thedeterminationoffairvalueisincludedinNote3andNote31.
IncomeTaxes
Theprovisionforincometaxesiscalculatedbasedontheexpectedtax

treatmentoftransactionsrecordedinourConsolidatedStatementsof

IncomeorChangesinEquity.Indeterminingtheprovisionforincome

taxes,weinterprettaxlegislationinavarietyofjurisdictionsandmake

assumptionsabouttheexpectedtimingofthereversalofdeferredtax

assetsandliabilities.Ifourinterpretationsdifferfromthoseoftax

authoritiesorifthetimingofreversalsisnotasexpected,ourprovision

forincometaxescouldincreaseordecreaseinfutureperiods.The

amountofanysuchincreaseordecreasecannotbereasonably

estimated.Deferredtaxassetsarerecognizedonlywhenitisprobablethat
sufficienttaxableprofitwillbeavailableinfutureperiodsagainstwhich

deductibletemporarydifferencesmaybeutilized.Wearerequiredto

assesswhetheritisprobablethatourdeferredincometaxassetwillbe

realizedpriortoitsexpirationand,basedonalltheavailableevidence,

determineifanyportionofourdeferredincometaxassetshouldnotbe

recognized.Thefactorsusedtoassesstheprobabilityofrealizationare

ourpastexperienceofincomeandcapitalgains,forecastoffuturenet

incomebeforetaxes,availabletaxplanningstrategiesthatcouldbe

implementedtorealizethedeferredincometaxasset,andthe

remainingexpirationperiodoftaxlosscarryforwards.
Additionalinformationregardingouraccountingforincometaxesis
includedinNote25.
GoodwillForthepurposeofimpairmenttesting,goodwillisallocatedtoour

groupsofcashgeneratingunits(“CGUs”),whichrepresentthelowest

levelwithinthebankatwhichgoodwillismonitoredforinternal

managementpurposes.Impairmenttestingisperformedatleast

annually,andwheneverthereisanindicationthataCGUmaybe

impaired,bycomparingthecarryingvalueandtherecoverableamount
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
129NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
oftheCGUtowhichgoodwillhasbeenallocatedtodeterminewhether
therecoverableamountofthegroupisgreaterthanitscarryingvalue.If

thecarryingvalueweretoexceedtherecoverableamountofthegroup,

animpairmentcalculationwouldbeperformed.
Fairvaluelesscoststosellwasusedtoperformtheimpairment
test.Indeterminingfairvaluelesscoststosell,weemployadiscounted

cashflowmodelconsistentwiththoseusedwhenweacquire

businesses.Thismodelisdependentonassumptionsrelatedtorevenue

growth,discountrates,synergiesachievedonacquisitionandthe

availabilityofcomparableacquisitiondata.Changesinanyofthese

assumptionswouldaffectthedeterminationoffairvalueforeachofthe

CGUsinadifferentmanner.Managementmustexerciseitsjudgment

andmakeassumptionsindeterminingfairvaluelesscoststosell,and

differencesinjudgmentsandassumptionscouldaffectthe

determinationoffairvalueandanyresultingimpairmentwrite-down.
AdditionalinformationregardinggoodwillisincludedinNote13.
PurchasedLoans
Significantjudgmentsandassumptionsweremadeindeterminingthe

fairvalueoftheMarshall&IlsleyCorporation(“M&I”)loanportfolio.

Loanswereidentifiedaseitherpurchasedperformingloansor

purchasedcreditimpairedloans(“PCIloans”),bothofwhichwere

recordedatfairvalueatthetimeofacquisition.Determiningthefair

valueinvolvedestimatingtheexpectedcashflowstobereceivedand

determiningthediscountratetobeappliedtothecashflowsfromthe

loanportfolio.Indeterminingthepossiblediscountrates,weconsidered

variousfactors,includingourcosttoraisefundsinthecurrentmarket,

theriskpremiumassociatedwiththeloansandthecosttoservicethe

portfolios.PCIloansarethosewherethetimelycollectionofinterest

andprincipalwasnolongerreasonablyassuredasatthedateof

acquisition.Subsequenttotheacquisitiondate,weregularlyre-evaluate

whatweexpecttocollectonPCIloans.Changesinexpectedcashflows

couldresultintherecognitionofimpairmentorarecoveryinour

provisionforcreditlosses.Assessingthetimingandamountofcash

flowsrequiressignificantmanagementjudgmentregardingkey

assumptions,includingtheprobabilityofdefault,severityoflossand

timingofpaymentreceipts,aswellasthevaluationofcollateral.Allof

thesefactorsareinherentlysubjectiveandcanresultinsignificant

changesincashflowestimatesoverthelifeofaloan.
Subsequenttothedeterminationoftheinitialfairvalue,the
purchasedperformingloansaresubjecttothecreditreviewprocesses

appliedtoloansweoriginate.
Additionalinformationregardingtheaccountingforpurchasedloans
isincludedinNote4.
AcquiredDeposits
M&Idepositliabilitieswererecordedatfairvalueatacquisition.The

determinationoffairvalueinvolvedestimatingtheexpectedcashflows

tobepaidanddeterminingthediscountrateappliedtothecashflows.

Assessingthetimingandamountofcashflowsrequiressignificant

managementjudgmentregardingthelikelihoodofearlyredemptionby

usandthetimingofwithdrawalbytheclient.Discountrateswere

basedontheprevailingrateswewerepayingonsimilardepositsatthe

dateofacquisition.
Insurance-RelatedLiabilities
Insuranceclaimsandpolicybenefitliabilitiesrepresentcurrentclaims

andestimatesoffutureinsurancepolicybenefits.Liabilitiesforlife

insurancecontractsaredeterminedusingtheCanadianAssetLiability

Method,whichincorporatesbest-estimateassumptionsformortality,

morbidity,policylapses,surrenders,futureinvestmentyields,policy

dividends,administrationcostsandmarginsforadversedeviation.These

assumptionsarereviewedatleastannuallyandupdatedtoreflectactual

experienceandmarketconditions.Themostsignificantimpactonthe

valuationofaliabilitywouldresultfromachangeintheassumptionfor

futureinvestmentyields.
Additionalinformationregardinginsurance-relatedliabilitiesis
includedinNote16.
ProvisionsThebankanditssubsidiariesareinvolvedinvariouslegalactionsinthe

ordinarycourseofbusiness.
Provisionsarerecordedatthebestestimateoftheamounts
requiredtosettleanyobligationsrelatedtotheselegalactionsasatthe

balancesheetdate,takingintoaccounttherisksanduncertainties

associatedwiththeobligation.Managementandinternalandexternal

expertsareinvolvedinestimatinganyprovisions.Theactualcostsof

resolvingtheseclaimsmaybesubstantiallyhigherorlowerthanthe

amountsoftheprovisions.
AdditionalinformationregardingprovisionsisprovidedinNote30.
SignificantJudgmentsAppliedinAssessingControl
Formostofoursubsidiaries,controlisdeterminedbasedonholdingthe

majorityofthevotingrights.Forcertaininvestmentsinlimited

partnerships,weexercisejudgmentindeterminingifwecontrolan

entity.Basedonanassessmentofourinterestsandrights,wehave

determinedthatwedonotcontrolcertainentities,eventhoughwemay

haveanownershipinterestgreaterthan50%.Thismaybethecase

whenwearenotthegeneralpartnerinanarrangementandthegeneral

partner’srightsmostsignificantlyaffectthereturnsoftheentity.

Additionally,wehavedeterminedthatwecontrolcertainentities

despitehavinganownershipinterestlessthan50%.Thismaybethe

casewhenwearethegeneralpartnerinanarrangementandthe

generalpartner’srightsmostsignificantlyaffectthereturnsofthe

entity.Wealsoexercisejudgmentindeterminingifwecontrolstructured
entities.StructuredentitiesarediscussedingreaterdetailinNote9.
ChangesInAccountingPolicies
EffectiveNovember1,2013,weadoptedthefollowingnewand

amendedaccountingpronouncementsissuedbytheIASB.
EmployeeBenefits
OnNovember1,2013,weadoptedrevisionstoIAS19
EmployeeBenefits(“IAS19”)thatamendthemeasurement,presentationand
disclosurerequirementsforemployeebenefitplans.Thestandardhas

beenappliedretroactivelyandthecomparativeperiodsinour

ConsolidatedBalanceSheet,StatementofIncomeandStatementof

ComprehensiveIncomehavebeenrestated.TheamendmentstoIAS19

requirethefullfundedstatusofourpensionandotheremployeefuture

benefitplanstobereflectedasthenetdefinedbenefitliabilityorasset

intheConsolidatedBalanceSheet.Actuarialgainsandlossesare

recognizedimmediatelyinOtherComprehensiveIncome(“OCI”)andare

nolongerdeferredandamortizedintoincome.Pastservicecosts

resultingfromplanamendmentsareimmediatelyrecognizedinincome

whenaplanisamended,withoutregardtovesting.
Interestcostsandexpectedreturnonplanassetsunderthe
previousversionofIAS19havebeenreplacedwithanetinterestcostor

revenuecalculatedbyapplyingthediscountratetothenetdefined

benefitliabilityorasset.Further,theseamendmentsalsorequire

enhanceddisclosuresaboutthecharacteristicsofthoseplansandthe

riskstowhichthebankisexposedthroughparticipationinthoseplans.

AdditionaldisclosuresareincludedinNote24tocomplywiththese

requirements.PresentationofFinancialStatements
AmendmentstoIAS1
PresentationofFinancialStatements
requireitemswithinOCItobepresentedseparatelybasedonwhetherornot

theitemwillsubsequentlybereclassifiedintonetincome.Thenew

presentationwasadoptedonaretroactivebasistogetherwiththe

amendmentstoIAS19.Actuarialgainsandlossesthatarerecognized

directlyinOCIunderIAS19remaininOCIandwillneverbereclassified

tonetincome.
130BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesConsolidatedFinancialStatementsandAccountingforJointVentures
IFRS10
ConsolidatedFinancialStatements
(“IFRS10”)providesasingle
consolidationmodelthatdefinescontrolandestablishescontrolasthe
basisforconsolidationforalltypesofinterests.UnderIFRS10,we

controlanentitywhenwehavepowerovertheentity,exposureor

rightstovariablereturnsfromourinvolvement,andtheabilityto

exercisepowertoaffecttheamountofourreturns.TheadoptionofIFRS

10resultedinthedeconsolidationofBMOSubordinatedNotesTrust,

BMOCapitalTrustIIandcertainofourCanadiancustomersecuritization

vehiclesasdisclosedinNote9.Thestandardhasbeenapplied

retroactivelyandcomparativeperiodshavebeenrestated.
IFRS11
JointArrangements
(“IFRS11”)requiresjointventurestobe
accountedforusingtheequitymethod.WiththeadoptionofIFRS11,

wechangedtheaccountingforajointventurefromproportionate

consolidationtotheequitymethodofaccounting.Theimpactof

retroactiveadoptionwastorecordanetinvestmentinjointventurein

securities,otherandrecordourportionoftheearningsfromthejoint

ventureininterest,dividendandfeeincome,securitiesinour

ConsolidatedStatementofIncome.
ThefollowingtablesummarizestheimpactofadoptionofIAS19,
IFRS10andIFRS11onourpriorperiodconsolidatedfinancial

statements:AsatOctober31,2013(Canadian$inmillions)
Increase(decrease)inIFRS10and11IAS19
Cash6–
Securities819–
Loans,businessandgovernments199–
Premisesandequipment(23)–

Goodwill(74)–

Intangibleassets(19)–

Deferredtaxasset–116

Otherassets(948)(331)
Deposits,businessandgovernments1,548–
Capitaltrustsecurities(463)–

Otherliabilities(1,123)85
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome–(165)
Retainedearnings(2)(135)
Netincomeattributabletobankshareholdersfortheyearended
October31,2013decreasedby$55millionaftertax,asaresultofthe

retroactiveadoptionofamendedIAS19,IFRS10andIFRS11.Basicand

dilutedearningspersharefortheyearendedOctober31,2013was

$6.19and$6.17,respectively.Anopeningbalancesheethasnotbeen

presentedastheimpactoftransitionisnotmaterialtothefinancial

statements.InterestsinOtherEntities
WealsoadoptedIFRS12
DisclosureofInterestsinOtherEntities
(“IFRS12”).IFRS12setsoutthedisclosurerequirementsforallformsof
interestsinotherentities,includingsubsidiaries,jointarrangements,

associatesandunconsolidatedstructuredentities.Thisnewstandard

requiresdisclosureofthenatureofourinterestsinotherentities,and

forunconsolidatedstructuredentities,disclosureofrisksassociatedwith

andtheeffectsoftheseinterestsonourfinancialposition,financial

performanceandcashflows.Theadditionaldisclosuresrequiredare

includedinNote9andNote28.
FairValueMeasurement
WeadoptedIFRS13
FairValueMeasurement
(“IFRS13”),whichprovides
acommondefinitionoffairvalueandestablishesaframeworkfor

measuringfairvalue.Thenewstandardalsorequiresadditional

disclosuresaboutfairvaluemeasurements.Thenewstandarddidnot
haveasignificantimpactonourconsolidatedfinancialstatements.The

additionaldisclosuresrequiredbythestandardareincludedinNote31.
OffsettingFinancialAssetsandFinancialLiabilities
WeadoptedtheamendmentstoIFRS7
FinancialInstruments:
Disclosures–OffsettingFinancialAssetsandFinancialLiabilities
(“IFRS7
amendment”),whichcontainnewdisclosurerequirementsforfinancial

assetsandfinancialliabilitiesthatareoffsetinthebalancesheetor

subjecttomasternettingagreementsorothersimilararrangements.

TheadditionaldisclosuresrequiredbytheIFRS7amendmentare

includedinNote21.
FutureChangesinIFRS
ImpairmentofAssets
InMay2013,theIASBissuednarrow-scopeamendmentstoIAS36

ImpairmentofAssets.
Theseamendmentsaddressthedisclosureof
informationabouttherecoverableamountofimpairedassetsifthat

amountisbasedonfairvaluelesscostsofdisposal.Theamendments

areeffectiveforourfiscalyearbeginningNovember1,2014.Wedonot

expecttheamendmentstohaveasignificantdisclosureimpactonour

consolidatedfinancialstatements.
OffsettingFinancialAssetsandFinancialLiabilities
InDecember2011,theIASBissuedamendmentstoIAS32
OffsettingFinancialAssetsandFinancialLiabilities
(“IAS32”).Theamendments
clarifythatanentityhasacurrentlegallyenforceablerighttooffsetif

thatrightisnotcontingentonafutureevent,andthatrightis

enforceablebothinthenormalcourseofbusinessandintheeventof

default,insolvencyorbankruptcyoftheentityandallcounterparties.

TheamendmentsareeffectiveforourfiscalyearbeginningNovember1,

2014.Wedonotexpecttheseamendmentstohaveasignificantimpact

onourconsolidatedfinancialstatement.
FinancialInstruments
InJuly2014,theIASBissuedIFRS9
FinancialInstruments
(“IFRS9”),
whichaddressesclassificationandmeasurement,impairmentandhedge

accounting.Thenewstandardrequiresassetstobeclassifiedbasedonour
businessmodelformanagingthefinancialassetsandthecontractual

cashflowcharacteristicsofthefinancialassets.Financialassetswillbe

measuredatfairvaluethroughprofitorlossunlesscertainconditions

aremetwhichpermitmeasurementatamortizedcostorfairvalue

throughothercomprehensiveincome.Theclassificationand

measurementofliabilitiesremaingenerallyunchanged,withthe

exceptionofliabilitiesrecordedatfairvaluethroughprofitandloss.For

financialliabilitiesdesignatedatfairvaluethroughprofitandloss,IFRS9

requiresthepresentationoftheeffectsofchangesinourowncreditrisk

inOCIinsteadofnetincome.
IFRS9introducesanewsingleimpairmentmodelforfinancial
assets.Thenewmodelisbasedonexpectedcreditlossesandwillresult

increditlossesbeingrecognizedregardlessofwhetheralosseventhas

occurred.Theexpectedcreditlossmodelwillapplytomostfinancial

instrumentsnotmeasuredatfairvalue,withthemostsignificantimpact

beingtoloans.Theexpectedcreditlossmodelrequirestherecognition

ofcreditlossesbasedona12-monthtimehorizonforperformingloans

andrequirestherecognitionoflifetimeexpectedcreditlossesforloans

thatexperienceasignificantdeteriorationincreditrisksinceinception.
IFRS9alsointroducesanewhedgeaccountingmodelthatexpands
thescopeofeligiblehedgeditemsandriskseligibleforhedge

accountingandalignshedgeaccountingmorecloselywithrisk

management.Thenewmodelnolongerspecifiesquantitativemeasures

foreffectivenesstestinganddoesnotpermithedgede-designation.
IFRS9iseffectiveforourfiscalyearbeginningonNovember1,
2018;earlyadoptionispermitted.Additionally,theowncreditrisk

presentationrequirementscanbeearlyadoptedpriortoadoptingthe

otherrequirementsofIFRS9.Wearecurrentlyassessingtheimpactof

thisnewstandardonourfuturefinancialresults.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
131NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
InvestmentEntities
InOctober2012,theIASBissuedamendmentstoIFRS10,IFRS12and
IAS27
SeparateFinancialStatements
,whichintroduceanexceptionto
theprinciplethatallsubsidiariesaretobeconsolidated.The

amendmentsrequireaparentthatisaninvestmententitytomeasure

itsinvestmentsinparticularsubsidiariesatfairvaluethroughprofitor

lossinsteadofconsolidatingallsubsidiariesinitsconsolidatedfinancial

statements.Theamendmentsareeffectiveforourfiscalyearbeginning

November1,2014.Wedonotexpecttheseamendmentstohavea

significantimpactonourconsolidatedfinancialstatementsasweare

notconsideredtobeaninvestmententity.
LeviesInMay2013,theIFRSInterpretationsCommittee(“IFRIC”)issued

IFRIC21
Levies,whichprovidesguidanceonwhentorecognizealiability
topayalevyimposedbyagovernmentonanentityinaccordancewith
legislation.IFRIC21iseffectiveforourfiscalyearbeginning

November1,2014.Wedonotexpectthisinterpretationtohavea

significantimpactonourconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
RevenueInMay2014,theIASBissuedIFRS15
RevenuefromContractswith
Customers(“IFRS15”),whichreplacestheexistingstandardsfor
revenuerecognition.Thenewstandardestablishesaframeworkforthe

recognitionandmeasurementofrevenuesgeneratedfromcontracts

withcustomers,exceptforitemssuchasfinancialinstruments,

insurancecontractsandleases.Thenewstandardalsorequires

additionaldisclosuresaboutthenature,amount,timinganduncertainty

ofrevenuesandcashflowsarisingfromtransactionswithour

customers.IFRS15iseffectiveforourfiscalyearbeginningNovember1,

2017.Wearecurrentlyassessingtheimpactofthestandardonour

futurefinancialresults.
Note2:CashResourcesandInterestBearingDepositswithBanks
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Cashanddepositswithbanks
(1)27,05624,679Chequesandotheritemsintransit,net
1,3301,410Totalcashandcashequivalents
28,38626,089(1)DepositswithbanksincludedepositswiththeBankofCanada,theU.S.FederalReserveand
otherbanks.
ChequesandOtherItemsinTransit,Net
Chequesandotheritemsintransitarerecordedatcostandrepresent

thenetpositionoftheunclearedchequesandotheritemsintransit

betweenusandotherbanks.
CashRestrictions
Someofourforeignoperationsarerequiredtomaintainreservesor

minimumbalanceswithcentralbanksintheirrespectivecountriesof

operationamountingto$1,638millionasatOctober31,2014

($1,211millionin2013).
InterestBearingDepositswithBanks
Depositswithbanksarerecordedatamortizedcostandinclude

acceptanceswehavepurchasedthatwereissuedbyotherbanks.

Interestincomeearnedonthesedepositsisrecordedonanaccrual

basis.Note3:Securities
Securitiesaredividedintofourtypes,eachwithadifferentpurposeand

accountingtreatment.Thetypesofsecuritiesweholdareasfollows:
Tradingsecurities
aresecuritiesthatwepurchaseforresaleovera
shortperiodoftime.Wereportthesesecuritiesattheirfairvalueand
recordthefairvaluechangesandtransactioncostsinourConsolidated

StatementofIncomeintradingrevenues.
SecuritiesDesignatedatFairValue
Securitiesdesignatedatfairvaluethroughprofitorlossarefinancial

instrumentsthatareaccountedforatfairvalue,withchangesinfair

valuerecordedinincomeprovidedtheymeetcertaincriteria.Securities

designatedatfairvaluethroughprofitorlossmusthavereliably

measurablefairvaluesandsatisfyoneofthefollowingcriteria:

(1)accountingforthematfairvalueeliminatesorsignificantlyreduces

aninconsistencyinmeasurementorrecognitionthatwouldotherwise

arisefrommeasuringassetsorliabilitiesorrecognizingthegainsand

lossesonthemonadifferentbasis;(2)thesecuritiesarepartofagroup

offinancialassets,financialliabilitiesorboththatismanagedandhas

itsperformanceevaluatedonafairvaluebasis,inaccordancewitha

documentedriskmanagementorinvestmentstrategy,andisreported

tokeymanagementpersonnelonafairvaluebasis;or(3)thesecurities

arehybridfinancialinstrumentswithoneormoreembeddedderivatives

thatwouldotherwisehavetobebifurcatedandaccountedfor

separatelyfromthehostcontract.Financialinstrumentsmustbe

designatedoninitialrecognition,andthedesignationisirrevocable.If

thesesecuritieswerenotdesignatedatfairvalue,theywouldbe

accountedforasavailable-for-salesecuritieswithunrealizedgainsand

lossesrecordedinothercomprehensiveincome.
Wedesignatecertainsecuritiesheldbyourinsurancesubsidiaries
thatsupportourinsuranceliabilitiesatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss
sincetheactuarialcalculationofinsuranceliabilitiesisbasedonthefair

valueoftheinvestmentssupportingthem.Thisdesignationalignsthe

accountingresultwiththewaytheportfolioismanagedonafairvalue

basis.ThefairvalueoftheseinvestmentsasatOctober31,2014of

$6,599million($5,766millionin2013)isrecordedinsecurities,trading

inourConsolidatedBalanceSheet.Theimpactofrecordingthese

investmentsatfairvaluethroughprofitorlosswasanincreaseof

$379millioninnon-interestrevenue,insuranceincomefortheyear

endedOctober31,2014(decreaseof$178millionin2013).Changesin

theinsuranceliabilitybalancesarealsorecordedinnon-interest

revenue,insuranceincome.
AsatOctober31,2014,ourcreditprotectionvehicleheldonlycash
andcashequivalents.During2013,thisvehicleheldinvestmentsthat

weredesignatedatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss,whichalignedthe

accountingresultwiththewaytheportfoliowasmanagedonafair

valuebasis.Theimpactofrecordingtheseinvestmentsatfairvalue

throughprofitorlossin2013wasadecreaseinnon-interestrevenue,

tradingrevenueof$40million.Werecognizedoffsettingamountsfor

derivativecontractsthatwereheldtohedgechangesinfairvalueof

thoseinstruments.Additionalinformationrelatingtoourcredit

protectionvehicleisincludedinNote9.
Wedesignatecertaininvestmentsheldinourmerchantbanking
businessatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss,whichalignstheaccounting

resultwiththewaytheportfolioismanaged.Thefairvalueofthese

investmentsasatOctober31,2014of$467million($488millionin

2013)isrecordedinsecurities,otherinourConsolidatedBalanceSheet.

Theimpactofrecordingtheseinvestmentsatfairvaluethroughprofitor

losswasanincreaseinnon-interestrevenue,securitiesgains,other

thantradingof$28millioninourConsolidatedStatementofIncomefor

theyearendedOctober31,2014(decreaseof$18millionin2013).
132BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesAvailable-for-salesecurities
consistofdebtandequitysecuritiesthat
maybesoldinresponsetoorinanticipationofchangesininterestrates
andresultingprepaymentrisk,changesinforeigncurrencyrisk,changes

infundingsourcesorterms,ortomeetliquidityneeds.
Available-for-salesecuritiesareinitiallyrecordedatfairvalueplus
transactioncosts.Theyaresubsequentlyre-measuredatfairvaluewith

unrealizedgainsandlossesrecordedinunrealizedgains(losses)on

available-for-salesecuritiesinourConsolidatedStatementof

ComprehensiveIncomeuntilthesecurityissold.Gainsandlosseson

disposalandimpairmentlossesarerecordedinourConsolidated

StatementofIncomeinnon-interestrevenue,securitiesgains,other

thantrading.Interestincomeearnedanddividendsreceivedon

available-for-salesecuritiesarerecordedinourConsolidatedStatement

ofIncomeininterest,dividendandfeeincome,securities.
Investmentsheldbyourinsuranceoperationsareclassifiedas
available-for-salesecurities,exceptforthoseinvestmentsthatsupport

thepolicybenefitliabilitiesonourinsurancecontracts,whichare

designatedatfairvaluethroughprofitorlossasdiscussedabove.

Interestandotherfeeincomeontheinsuranceavailable-for-sale

securitiesisrecognizedwhenearnedinourConsolidatedStatementof

Incomeinnon-interestrevenue,insuranceincome.
Held-to-maturitysecurities
aredebtsecuritiesthatwehavethe
intentionandabilitytoholdtomaturity.Thesesecuritiesareinitially
recordedatfairvalueplustransactioncostsandsubsequentlyre-

measuredatamortizedcostusingtheeffectiveinterestmethod.Gains

andlossesondisposalandimpairmentlossesarerecordedinour

ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeinsecuritiesgains(losses),other

thantrading.Interestincomeearnedandamortizationofpremiumsor

discountsonthedebtsecuritiesarerecordedinourConsolidated

StatementofIncomeininterest,dividendandfeeincome,securities.
Othersecurities
areinvestmentsincompanieswhereweexert
significantinfluenceoveroperating,investingandfinancingdecisions
(generallycompaniesinwhichweownbetween20%and50%ofthe

votingshares)andcertainsecuritiesheldbyourmerchantbanking

business.
Weaccountforallofoursecuritiestransactionsusingsettlementdate

accountinginourConsolidatedBalanceSheet.Changesinfairvalue

betweenthetradedateandsettlementdatearerecordedinnet

income.Foravailable-for-salesecurities,changesinfairvaluebetween

thetradedateandsettlementdatearerecordedinothercomprehensive

income.ImpairmentReview
Foravailable-for-sale,held-to-maturityandothersecurities,impairment

lossesarerecognizedifthereisobjectiveevidenceofimpairmentasa
resultofaneventthatreducestheestimatedfuturecashflowsfromthe

securityandtheimpactcanbereliablyestimated.
Forequitysecurities,asignificantorprolongeddeclineinthefair
valueofasecuritybelowitscostisconsideredtobeobjectiveevidence

ofimpairment.
Theimpairmentlossonavailable-for-salesecuritiesisthe
differencebetweenthecost/amortizedcostandcurrentfairvalue,less

anypreviouslyrecognizedimpairmentlosses.Theimpairmentlosson

held-to-maturitysecuritiesisthedifferencebetweenasecurity’s

carryingamountandthepresentvalueofestimatedfuturecashflows

discountedattheasset’soriginaleffectiveinterestrate.
Ifthereisobjectiveevidenceofimpairment,awrite-downis
recordedinourConsolidatedStatementofIncomeinsecuritiesgains,

otherthantrading.
Fordebtsecurities,apreviousimpairmentlossisreversedthrough
netincomeifaneventoccursaftertheimpairmentwasrecognizedthat

canbeobjectivelyattributedtoanincreaseinfairvalue,toamaximum

oftheoriginalimpairmentcharge.Reversalsofimpairmentlosseson

held-to-maturitysecuritiesarerecordedtoamaximumoftheamortized

costoftheinvestmentbeforetheoriginalimpairmentcharge.Forequity

securities,previousimpairmentlossesarenotreversedthroughnet

incomeandanysubsequentincreasesinfairvaluearerecordedinother

comprehensiveincome.
AsatOctober31,2014,wehad565available-for-salesecurities
(979in2013)withunrealizedlossestotalling$35million(unrealized

lossesof$96millionin2013).Oftheseavailable-for-salesecurities,

203havebeeninanunrealizedlosspositioncontinuouslyformorethan

oneyear(44in2013),amountingtoanunrealizedlosspositionof

$20million(unrealizedlosspositionof$5millionin2013).Unrealized

lossesontheseinstruments,excludingcorporateequities,resultedfrom

changesininterestratesandnotfromdeteriorationinthe

creditworthinessoftheissuers.Weexpectfullrecoveryofthese

available-for-saleinstrumentsandhavedeterminedthatthereisno

significantimpairment.
Wedidnotownanysecuritiesissuedbyasinglenon-government
entitywherethebookvalue,asatOctober31,2014or2013,was

greaterthan10%ofourshareholders’equity.
FairValueMeasurement
Fortradedsecurities,quotedmarketvalueisconsideredtobefairvalue.

Quotedmarketvalueisbasedonbidprices.Forsecuritieswheremarket

quotesarenotavailable,weuseestimationtechniquestodetermine

fairvalue.DiscussionoffairvaluemeasurementisincludedinNote31.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
133NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
Termtomaturity2014
2013Within1year
1to3
years3to5
years5to10
yearsOver10
yearsTotal
TotalTradingSecurities
Issuedorguaranteedby:
Canadianfederalgovernment
1,5184,1469702,3061,52210,462
10,824Canadianprovincialandmunicipalgovernments
5861,0137731,9252,8997,196
5,711U.S.federalgovernment
8711,9861,6141,0296656,165
5,903U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies
8427326109219711
759Othergovernments
9791323–223
136Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations
170399583540702
652Corporatedebt
1,5771,9821,6141,3625,29611,831
11,087Corporateequity
––––47,73247,732
40,087Totaltradingsecurities
4,9039,8905,0876,76958,37385,022
75,159Available-for-SaleSecurities

Issuedorguaranteedby:
Canadianfederalgovernment
Amortizedcost
1564,6695,105490–10,420
12,989Fairvalue
1564,6935,159493–10,501
13,115Yield(%)0.951.171.822.00–1.52
1.53Canadianprovincialandmunicipalgovernments
Amortizedcost
677651,8001,431–4,063
3,707Fairvalue
677711,8121,454–4,104
3,698Yield(%)1.051.401.722.59–1.96
2.00U.S.federalgovernment
Amortizedcost
233–861––1,094
4,650Fairvalue
233–860––1,093
4,660Yield(%)0.41–1.43––1.21
0.39U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies
Amortizedcost
4922,2991,0979239505,761
5,363Fairvalue
4932,3071,1079489605,815
5,392Yield(%)0.820.490.842.351.471.04
0.90Othergovernments
Amortizedcost
1,7012,4931,87646–6,116
6,165Fairvalue
1,7032,4971,88646–6,132
6,163Yield(%)1.321.231.421.88–1.32
1.39Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations–Canada
(1)Amortizedcost
1047912,12412–3,031
2,271Fairvalue
1047952,14213–3,054
2,277Yield(%)1.701.781.935.15–1.90
1.83Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations–U.S.
Amortizedcost
25172216,6276,872
6,535Fairvalue
25182236,6476,895
6,528Yield(%)1.742.161.361.920.880.92
1.16Corporatedebt
Amortizedcost
1,0023,9771,703895–7,577
10,210Fairvalue
1,0064,0331,712915–7,666
10,317Yield(%)0.861.751.953.02–1.83
1.40Corporateequity
Amortizedcost
––––1,5821,582
1,413Fairvalue
––––1,7061,706
1,560Yield(%)––––2.252.25
1.90Totalcostoramortizedcost
3,75714,99914,5834,0189,15946,516
53,303Totalfairvalue
3,76415,10114,6964,0929,31346,966
53,710Yield(%)1.071.271.692.521.181.48
1.33Held-to-MaturitySecurities

Issuedorguaranteedby:
Canadianfederalgovernment
Amortizedcost
1004771,855––2,432
2,432Fairvalue
1004771,865––2,442
2,435Canadianprovincialandmunicipalgovernments
Amortizedcost
–966966600–2,532
2,284Fairvalue
–971971616–2,558
2,290Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations–Canada
(1)Amortizedcost
405578686–3,7115,380
1,316Fairvalue
405593733–3,7595,490
1,316Totalcostoramortizedcost
5052,0213,5076003,71110,344
6,032Totalfairvalue
5052,0413,5696163,75910,490
6,041OtherSecurities

Carryingvalue
15–4519908987
899Fairvalue
15–45192,2272,306
2,410Totalcarryingvalueoramortizedcostofsecurities
9,18026,91023,22211,40672,151142,869
135,393Totalsecuritiesvalue
9,18727,01223,33511,48072,305143,319
135,800TotalbyCurrency
(inCanadian$equivalent)
Canadiandollar
5,04615,62115,1788,38449,89794,126
90,100U.S.dollar
3,32410,3307,7143,09622,11646,580
42,690Othercurrencies
8171,061443–2922,613
3,010Totalsecurities
9,18727,01223,33511,48072,305143,319
135,800(1)Theseamountsaresupportedbyinsuredmortgages.
Yieldsinthetableabovearecalculatedusingthecostofthesecurityandthecontractualinterestorstateddividendratesassociatedwitheachsecurityadjustedforanyamortizationofpremiumsand
discounts.Taxeffectsarenottakenintoconsideration.Thetermtomaturityincludedinthetableaboveisbasedonthecontractualmaturitydateofthesecurity.Thetermtomaturityofmortgage-

backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligationsisbasedonaverageexpectedmaturities.Actualmaturitiescoulddifferasissuersmayhavetherighttocallorprepayobligations.Securitieswith

nomaturitydateareincludedintheover10yearscategory.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
134BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesUnrealizedGainsandLosses
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013AmortizedcostGrossunrealizedgainsGrossunrealizedlossesFairvalueAmortizedcostGrossunrealizedgainsGrossunrealizedlossesFairvalueIssuedorguaranteedby:
Canadianfederalgovernment
10,42082110,501
12,989129313,115
Canadianprovincialandmunicipalgovernments
4,0634434,104
3,70723323,698
U.S.federalgovernment
1,094231,093
4,65010–4,660
U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies
5,7615735,815
5,36341125,392
Othergovernments
6,1161716,132
6,165796,163
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations–Canada
(1)3,0312413,054
2,2716–2,277
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations–U.S.
6,87235126,895
6,53524316,528
Corporatedebt
7,5779567,666
10,210115810,317
Corporateequity
1,58212951,706
1,41314811,560
Total46,5164853546,966
53,3035039653,710
(1)Theseamountsaresupportedbyinsuredmortgages.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
UnrealizedLosses
(Canadian$inmillions)
Available-for-salesecuritiesinanunrealized
losspositionfor2014
Available-for-salesecuritiesinanunrealized
losspositionfor2013
Lessthan
12months
12months
orlongerTotal
Lessthan
12months
12months
orlongerTotal
GrossunrealizedlossesFairvalueGrossunrealizedlossesFairvalueGrossunrealizedlossesFairvalueGrossunrealizedlossesFairvalueGrossunrealizedlossesFairvalueGrossunrealizedlossesFairvalueIssuedorguaranteedby:
Canadianfederalgovernment
1666––1666
3721––3721
Canadianprovincialandmunicipalgovernments
–28034873767
301,662226321,688
U.S.federalgovernment
3579––3579
––––––
U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies
–916373231,648
111,3851317121,702
Othergovernments
–15811,00311,161
81,14211,31692,458
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations–Canada
(1)1657––1657
–74–––74
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations–U.S.
51,96971,630123,599
304,0051143314,148
Corporatedebt
1822577361,595
82,753–3782,790
Corporateequity
440127567
196–2198
Total156,087204,6523510,739
9111,83851,8419613,679
(1)Theseamountsaresupportedbyinsuredmortgages.
Incomefromsecuritieshasbeenincludedinourconsolidatedfinancialstatementsasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
201420132012
ReportedinConsolidatedStatementofIncome:
Interest,DividendandFeeIncome
(1)Tradingsecurities
(2)1,0861,4091,621
Available-for-salesecurities
570610561
Held-to-maturitysecurities
152471
Othersecurities
186210213
1,9942,2762,396
Non-InterestRevenue
Available-for-salesecurities
Grossrealizedgains
30490153
Grossrealizedlosses
(167)(3)(24)
Unrealizedgainoninvestmentreclassifiedfromequitytoavailable-for-sale
–191–
Available-for-saleandothersecurities,netrealizedandunrealizedgains(losses)
332428
Impairmentwrite-downs
(8)(17)(5)
Securitiesgains(losses),otherthantrading
(1)162285152
Tradingsecurities,netrealizedandunrealizedgains(losses)
(1)(2)
340(1,273)374
Totalincomefromsecurities
2,4961,2882,922
(1)Thefollowingamountsofincomerelatedtoourinsuranceoperationswereincludedinnon-interestrevenue,insuranceincomeinourConsolidatedStatementofIncome:
Interest,dividendandfeeincomeof$263millionfortheyearendedOctober31,2014($263millionin2013and$253millionin2012).Securitiesgains(
losses),otherthantradingof$5millionfor
theyearendedOctober31,2014($1millionin2013and$nilin2012).
(2)Excludedfromthetableabovearetradingsecurities,netrealizedandunrealizedgains(losses)relatedtoourinsuranceoperationsof$379millionfortheyearendedOctober31,2014($(190)million
in2013and$286millionin2012).
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
135NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Note4:Loans,Customers’LiabilityunderAcceptances
andAllowanceforCreditLosses
LoansLoansareinitiallymeasuredatfairvalueplusdirectlyattributablecosts,
andaresubsequentlymeasuredatamortizedcostusingtheeffective

interestmethod.Theeffectiveinterestmethodallocatesinterestincome

overtheexpectedtermoftheloanbyapplyingtheeffectiveinterest

ratetothecarryingamountoftheloan.Theeffectiveinterestrateis

definedastheratethatexactlydiscountsestimatedfuturecashreceipts

throughtheexpectedtermoftheloantothenetcarryingamountofthe

loan.Undertheeffectiveinterestmethod,theamountrecognizedin

interest,dividendandfeeincome,loans,variesoverthetermofthe

loanbasedontheprincipaloutstanding.Thetreatmentofinterest

incomeforimpairedloansisdescribedbelow.
SecuritiesBorrowedorPurchasedUnderResale
AgreementsSecuritiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreementsrepresent
theamountswewillreceiveasaresultofourcommitmenttoresell

securitiesthatwehavepurchased,backtotheoriginalseller,ona

specifieddateataspecifiedprice.Weaccountfortheseinstrumentsas

iftheywereloans.
LendingFees
Theaccountingtreatmentforlendingfeesvariesdependingonthe

transaction.Someloanorigination,restructuringandrenegotiationfees

arerecordedasinterestincomeoverthetermoftheloan,whileother

lendingfees,toacertainthreshold,aretakenintoincomeatthetimeof

loanorigination.Commitmentfeesarerecordedasinterestincomeover

thetermoftheloan,unlesswebelievetheloancommitmentwillnot

beused.Inthelattercase,commitmentfeesarerecordedaslending

feesoverthecommitmentperiod.Loansyndicationfeesareincludedin

lendingfeesasthesyndicationiscompleted,unlesstheyieldonany

loansweretainislessthanthatofothercomparablelendersinvolvedin

thefinancing.Inthelattercase,anappropriateportionofthe

syndicationfeeisrecordedasinterestincomeoverthetermoftheloan.
Customers’LiabilityunderAcceptances
Acceptancesrepresentaformofnegotiableshort-termdebtthatis

issuedbyourcustomers,whichweguaranteeforafee.Wehave

offsettingclaims,equaltotheamountoftheacceptances,againstour

customersintheeventofacallonthesecommitments.Theamountdue

underacceptancesisrecordedinotherliabilitiesandourcorresponding

claimisrecordedasaloaninourConsolidatedBalanceSheet.
FeesearnedarerecordedinlendingfeesinourConsolidated
StatementofIncomeoverthetermoftheacceptance.
ImpairedLoans
GenerallyconsumerloansinbothCanadaandtheU.S.areclassifiedas

impairedwhenpaymentiscontractually90dayspastdue,oroneyear

pastdueforresidentialmortgagesifguaranteedbytheGovernmentof

Canada.Creditcardloansareimmediatelywrittenoffwhenprincipalor

interestpaymentsare180dayspastdue,andarenotreportedas

impaired.InCanada,consumerinstalmentloans,otherpersonalloans

andsomesmallbusinessloansarenormallywrittenoffwhentheyare

oneyearpastdue.IntheU.S.,allconsumerloansarewrittenoffwhen

theyare180dayspastdue,exceptfornon-realestatetermloans,

whicharewrittenoffat120days.Forthepurposeofmeasuringthe

amounttobewrittenoff,thedeterminationoftherecoverableamount

includesanestimateoffuturerecoveries.
Corporateandcommercialloansareclassifiedasimpairedwhenwe
determinethereisnolongerreasonableassurancethatprincipalor

interestwillbecollectedinitsentiretyonatimelybasis.Generally,

corporateandcommercialloansareconsideredimpairedwhen

paymentsare90dayspastdue,orforfullysecuredloans,when
paymentsare180dayspastdue.Corporateandcommercialloansare

writtenofffollowingareviewonanindividualloanbasisthatconfirms

allrecoveryattemptshavebeenexhausted.
Ouraveragegrossimpairedloansandacceptanceswere
$2,261millionfortheyearendedOctober31,2014($2,800millionin

2013).Ouraverageimpairedloans,netofthespecificallowance,were

$1,783millionfortheyearendedOctober31,2014($2,354millionin

2013).DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,werecordedanetgainof
$12million(netgainof$46millionin2013)onthesaleofimpaired

loans.Oncealoanisidentifiedasimpaired,wecontinuetorecognize
interestincomebasedontheoriginaleffectiveinterestrateoftheloan.
Interestincomeonimpairedloansof$111millionwasrecognized
fortheyearendedOctober31,2014($133millionin2013).
Aloanwillbereclassifiedbacktoperformingstatuswhenwe
determinethatthereisreasonableassuranceoffullandtimely

repaymentofinterestandprincipalinaccordancewiththetermsand

conditionsoftheloan,andthatnoneofthecriteriaforclassificationof

theloanasimpairedcontinuetoapply.
AllowanceforCreditLosses(“ACL”)
TheallowanceforcreditlossesrecordedinourConsolidatedBalance

Sheetismaintainedatalevelthatweconsideradequatetoabsorb

credit-relatedlossesonourloans,customers’liabilityunderacceptances

andothercreditinstruments.Theportionrelatedtoothercredit

instrumentsisrecordedinotherliabilitiesinourConsolidatedBalance

Sheetandamountedto$232millionasatOctober31,2014

($305millionin2013).
Theallowanceiscomprisedofaspecificallowanceandacollective
allowance.SpecificAllowance
Theseallowancesarerecordedforindividuallyidentifiedimpairedloans

toreducetheircarryingvaluetotheexpectedrecoverableamount.We

reviewourloansandacceptancesonanongoingbasistoassess

whetheranyloansshouldbeclassifiedasimpairedandwhetheran

allowanceorwrite-offshouldberecorded(otherthancreditcardloans,

whichareclassifiedasimpairedandwrittenoffwhenprincipalor

interestpaymentsare180dayspastdue,asdiscussedunderimpaired

loans).Thereviewofindividuallysignificantproblemloansisconducted

atleastquarterlybytheaccountmanagers,eachofwhomassessesthe

ultimatecollectabilityandestimatedrecoveriesforaspecificloanbased

onalleventsandconditionsthatarerelevanttotheloan.This

assessmentisthenapprovedbyanindependentcreditofficer.
IndividuallySignificantImpairedLoans
Todeterminetheamountweexpecttorecoverfromanindividually

significantimpairedloan,weusethevalueoftheestimatedfuturecash

flowsdiscountedattheloan’soriginaleffectiveinterestrate.The

determinationofestimatedfuturecashflowsofacollateralizedloan

reflectstheexpectedrealizationoftheunderlyingsecuritynetof

expectedcostsandanyamountslegallyrequiredtobepaidtothe

borrower.Securitycanvarybytypeofloanandmayincludecash,

securities,realproperties,accountsreceivable,guarantees,inventoryor

othercapitalassets.
IndividuallyInsignificantImpairedLoans
Residentialmortgages,consumerinstalmentandotherpersonalloans

areindividuallyinsignificantandthusarecollectivelyassessedfor

impairment,takingintoaccounthistoricallossexperience.Intheperiods

followingtherecognitionofimpairment,adjustmentstotheallowance

fortheseloansreflectingthetimevalueofmoneyarerecognizedand

presentedasinterestincome.
136BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesCollectiveAllowance
Wemaintainacollectiveallowanceinordertocoveranyimpairmentin
theexistingportfolioforloansthathavenotyetbeenindividually

identifiedasimpaired.Ourapproachtoestablishingandmaintainingthe

collectiveallowanceisbasedontherequirementsofIFRS,considering

guidelinesissuedbyourregulator,OSFI.
Thecollectiveallowancemethodologyincorporatesboth
quantitativeandqualitativefactorstodetermineanappropriatelevelfor

thecollectiveallowance.Forthepurposeofcalculatingthecollective

allowance,wegrouploansonthebasisofsimilaritiesincreditrisk

characteristics.Thelossfactorsforgroupsofloansaredeterminedbased

onaminimumoffiveyearsofhistoricaldataandaone-yearloss

emergenceperiod,exceptforcreditcards,whereaseven-monthloss

emergenceperiodisused.Thelossfactorsareback-testedand
calibratedonaregularbasistoensurethattheycontinuetoreflectour

bestestimateoflossesthathavebeenincurredbutnotyetidentified,

onanindividualbasis,withinthepoolsofloans.Historicalloss

experienceisalsoreviewedtodeterminelossfactors.Qualitativefactors

arebasedoncurrentobservabledatasuchascurrentmacroeconomic

andbusinessconditions,portfolio-specificconsiderations,modelrisk

factors,andthelevelofimpairedloansforwhichaspecificallowance

hasnotyetbeenassessed.
ProvisionforCreditLosses(“PCL”)
Changesinthevalueofourloanportfolioduetocredit-relatedlossesor

recoveriesofamountspreviouslyprovidedfororwrittenoffareincluded

intheprovisionforcreditlossesinourConsolidatedStatementof

Income.Loans,includingcustomers’liabilityunderacceptancesandallowanceforcreditlosses,bycategoryareasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
Residentialmortgages(1)
Creditcard,consumer
instalmentandother
personalloans
Businessand
governmentloans
Customers’liability
underacceptances
Total201420132012
201420132012
201420132012
201420132012
201420132012
Grossloanbalancesatendof
year(3)101,01396,39284,211
72,11571,51069,250
120,766104,58594,072
10,8788,4728,019
304,772280,959255,552
ImpairmentAllowances
(SpecificACL),beginningof
year997674
716259
315338426
–––485476559
Amountswrittenoff
(87)(104)(173)
(655)(750)(882)
(407)(443)(538)
–––(1,149)(1,297)(1,593)
Recoveriesofamountswrittenoff
inpreviousyears
402460
161152156
423596630
–––624772846
Chargetoincomestatement
(SpecificPCL)
77129132
519618742
(35)(150)(113)
–––561597761
Foreignexchangeandother
movements(16)(26)(17)
(22)(11)(13)
(59)(26)(67)
–––(97)(63)(97)
SpecificACL,endofyear
1139976
747162
237315338
–––424485476
CollectiveACL,beginningofyear
884736
622624565
756759817
193034
1,4851,4601,452
Chargetoincomestatement
(CollectivePCL)
(8)4011
50(4)59
(50)(35)(63)
8(11)(4)
–(10)3
Foreignexchangeandother
movements31–62–48325
–––57355
CollectiveACL,endofyear
838847
678622624
754756759
271930
1,5421,4851,460TotalACL
196187123
752693686
9911,0711,0972719301,9661,9701,936
Comprisedof:Loans
169167113
752693686
786786877
271930
1,7341,6651,706
Othercredit
instruments(2)272010
–––205285220
–––232305230
Netloanbalancesatendofyear
100,84496,22584,098
71,36370,81768,564
119,980103,79993,195
10,8518,4537,989
303,038279,294253,846
(1)IncludedintheresidentialmortgagesbalanceareCanadiangovernmentandcorporate-
insuredmortgagesof$58billionasatOctober31,2014($52billionin2013).
(2)Thetotalspecificandcollectiveallowancesrelatedtoothercreditinstrumentsareincluded
inotherliabilities.
(3)IncludedinloansasatOctober31,2014are$95,269million($81,069millionin2013and
$72,904millionin2012)ofloansdenominatedinU.S.dollarsand$1,039million
($947millionin2013and$622millionin2012)ofloansdenominatedinotherforeign

currencies.Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’spresentationandchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
Loans,includingcustomers’liabilityunderacceptancesandallowanceforcreditlosses,bygeographicregionareasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
Grossamount
Specificallowance(2)
Collectiveallowance(3)Netamount
20142013201420132014201320142013Bygeographicregion
(1):Canada213,490203,496191
244766726212,533
202,526UnitedStates
80,13568,505182196594
49579,359
67,814Othercountries
11,1478,95814––11,1468,954Total304,772280,959374
4441,360
1,221303,038279,294(1)Geographicregionisbaseduponthecountryofultimaterisk.

(2)Excludesspecificallowanceof$50millionforothercreditinstruments($41millionin2013),
whichisincludedinotherliabilities.
(3)Excludescollectiveallowanceof$182millionforothercreditinstruments($264millionin
2013),whichisincludedinotherliabilities.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’spresentationandchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
137NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Impairedloans,includingtherelatedallowances,areasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
GrossimpairedamountSpecificallowance(3)Netofspecificallowance
201420132014201320142013Residentialmortgages
5325958679446516Consumerinstalmentandotherpersonalloans
5444557471470384Businessandgovernmentloans
9721,494214
294758
1,200Total(1)2,0482,544374
4441,674
2,100Bygeographicregion
(2):Canada742754191
244551510UnitedStates
1,3011,7831821961,1191,587Othercountries
571443Total2,0482,544374
4441,674
2,100(1)Excludespurchasedcreditimpairedloans.
(2)Geographicregionisbaseduponthecountryofultimaterisk.

(3)Excludesspecificallowanceof$50millionforothercreditinstruments($41millionin2013),
whichisincludedinotherliabilities.
Fullysecuredloanswithpastdueamountsbetween90and180daysthatwehavenot

classifiedasimpairedtotalled$134millionand$256millionasatOctober31,2014and2013,

respectively.Specificprovisionsforcreditlossesbygeographicregionareasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
Residentialmortgages
Creditcard,consumer
instalmentandother
personalloans
Businessand
governmentloans(2)Total
FortheyearendedOctober31
20142013201420132014201320142013Bygeographicregion
(1):Canada124410431107133529568UnitedStates
65125109187(140)(281)3431Othercountries
––––(2)(2)(2)(2)Total77129519618(35)(150)561597(1)Geographicregionisbaseduponthecountryofultimaterisk.

(2)Includesprovisionsrelatingtocustomers’liabilityunderacceptancesintheamountof$niland$nilasatOctober31,2014and2013,respectivel
y.ForeclosedAssets
Propertyorotherassetsthatwehavereceivedfromborrowerstosatisfy

theirloancommitmentsareclassifiedaseitherheldforuseorheldfor

saleaccordingtomanagement’sintentionandarerecordedatthelower

ofcarryingamountorfairvaluelesscoststosell.Fairvalueis

determinedbasedonmarketpriceswhereavailable.Otherwise,fair

valueisdeterminedusingothermethods,suchasanalysisofdiscounted

cashflowsormarketpricesforsimilarassets.
DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,weforeclosedonimpaired
loansandreceived$225millionofrealestatepropertiesthatwe

classifiedasheldforsale($301millionin2013).
AsatOctober31,2014,realestatepropertiesheldforsaletotalled
$199million($278millionin2013).Thesepropertiesaredisposedof

whenconsideredappropriate.DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,

werecordedanimpairmentlossof$34milliononrealestateproperties

classifiedasheldforsale($36millionin2013).
RenegotiatedLoans
Fromtimetotimewemodifythecontractualtermsofloansduetothe

poorfinancialconditionoftheborrower.Weassessrenegotiatedloans

forimpairmentconsistentwithourexistingpoliciesforimpairment.

Whenrenegotiationleadstosignificantconcessionarymodificationsto

thecontractualtermsoftheloanandtheconcessionsareforeconomic

orlegalreasonsrelatedtotheborrower’sfinancialdifficultythatwe

wouldnototherwiseconsider,theloanisclassifiedasimpaired.We

consideroneoracombinationofthefollowingtobesignificant

concessions:(1)areductionofthestatedinterestrate,(2)anextension

ofthematuritydateordatesatastatedinterestratelowerthanthe

currentmarketrateforanewloanwithasimilarterm,or

(3)forgivenessofprincipaloraccruedinterest.
Renegotiatedloansarepermittedtoremaininperformingstatusif
themodificationsarenotconsideredtobesignificantconcessionsorare

returnedtoperformingstatuswhennoneofthecriteriaforclassification

asimpairedcontinuetoapply.
Thecarryingvalueofourrenegotiatedloanswas$728millionas
atOctober31,2014($388millionin2013).Renegotiatedloansof
$291millionwereclassifiedasperformingduringtheyearended

October31,2014($155millionin2013).Renegotiatedloansof

$25millionand$59millionwerewrittenoffintheyearsended

October31,2014and2013,respectively.
PurchasedLoans
Werecordallloansthatwepurchaseatfairvalueonthedaythatwe

acquiretheloans.Thefairvalueoftheacquiredloanportfolioincludes

anestimateoftheinterestratepremiumordiscountontheloans

calculatedasthedifferencebetweenthecontractualrateofintereston

theloansandprevailinginterestrates(the“interestratemark”).Also

includedinfairvalueisanestimateofexpectedcreditlosses(the

“creditmark”)asoftheacquisitiondate.Thecreditmarkconsistsoftwo

components:anestimateoftheamountoflossesthatexistinthe

acquiredloanportfolioontheacquisitiondatebutthathaven’tbeen

specificallyidentifiedonthatdate(the“incurredcreditmark”)andan

amountthatrepresentsfutureexpectedlosses(the“futurecredit

mark”).Becausewerecordtheloansatfairvalue,noallowancefor

creditlossesisrecordedinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetontheday

weacquiretheloans.Fairvalueisdeterminedbyestimatingthe

principalandinterestcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloans

anddiscountingthosecashflowsatamarketrateofinterest.We

estimatecashflowsexpectedtobecollectedbasedonspecificloan

reviewsforcommercialloans.Forretailloans,weusemodelsthat

incorporatemanagement’sbestestimateofcurrentkeyassumptions

suchasdefaultrates,lossseverityandthetimingofprepayments,as

wellascollateral.
Acquiredloansareclassifiedintothefollowingcategories:those
thatontheacquisitiondateweexpecttocontinuetomaketimely

principalandinterestpayments(the“purchasedperformingloans”)and

thoseforwhichontheacquisitiondatethetimelycollectionofinterest

andprincipalwasnolongerreasonablyassured(the“purchasedcredit

impairedloans”or“PCIloans”).BecausePCIloansarerecordedatfair

valueatacquisitionbasedontheamountexpectedtobecollected,none

ofthePCIloansareconsideredtobeimpairedatacquisition.
138BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesSubsequenttotheacquisitiondate,weaccountforeachtypeof
loanasfollows:
PurchasedPerformingLoans
Forperformingloanswithfixedterms,thefuturecreditmarkisfully

amortizedtonetinterestincomeovertheexpectedlifeoftheloan

usingtheeffectiveinterestmethod.Theimpactonnetinterestincome

fortheyearendedOctober31,2014was$34million($48millionin

2013and$97millionin2012).Theincurredcreditlossesarere-

measuredateachreportingperiod,withanyincreasesrecordedasan

increaseinthecollectiveallowanceandtheprovisionforcreditlosses.

Decreasesinincurredcreditlossesarerecordedasadecreaseinthe

collectiveallowanceandintheprovisionforcreditlossesuntilthe

accumulatedcollectiveallowancerelatedtotheseloansisexhausted.

Anyadditionaldecreaseisrecordedinnetinterestincome.
Theimpactofthere-measurementofincurredcreditlossesfor
performingloanswithfixedtermsfortheyearendedOctober31,2014

was$2millionintheprovisionforcreditlossesand$6millioninnet

interestincome($niland$143million,respectively,in2013and$nil

and$104million,respectively,in2012).
Forperformingloanswithrevolvingterms,theincurredandfuture
creditmarksareamortizedintonetinterestincomeonastraight-line

basisoverthecontractualtermsoftheloans.Theimpactonnetinterest

incomeofsuchamortizationfortheyearendedOctober31,2014was

$35million($123millionin2013and$179millionin2012).
Asperformingloansarerepaid,therelatedunamortizedcreditmark
remainingisrecordedasnetinterestincomeduringtheperiodinwhich

thecashisreceived.Theimpactonnetinterestincomeofsuch

repaymentsfortheyearendedOctober31,2014was$151million

($241millionin2013and$301millionin2012).
Actualspecificprovisionsforcreditlossesrelatedtothese
performingloanswillberecordedastheyariseinamannerthatis

consistentwithourpolicyforloansweoriginate.Thetotalspecific

provisionforcreditlossesforpurchasedperformingloansfortheyear

endedOctober31,2014was$82million($240millionin2013and$291

millionin2012).
AsatOctober31,2014,theamountofpurchasedperformingloans
remainingonthebalancesheetwas$11,703million($16,588millionin

2013).AsatOctober31,2014,thecreditmarkremainingonperforming

termloans,revolvingloansandotherperformingloanswas$279

million,$94millionand$2million,respectively($425million,$156

millionand$6million,respectively,in2013).Ofthetotalcreditmarkfor

performingloansof$375million,$207millionrepresentsthecredit

markthatwillbeamortizedovertheremaininglifeoftheportfolio.The

remaining$168millionrepresentstheincurredcreditmarkandwillbe

re-measuredeachreportingperiod.
PurchasedCreditImpairedLoans

Subsequenttotheacquisitiondate,weregularlyre-evaluatewhatwe

expecttocollectonthePCIloans.Increasesinexpectedcashflowswill

resultinarecoveryinthespecificprovisionforcreditlossesandeithera

reductioninanypreviouslyrecordedallowanceforcreditlossesor,ifno

allowanceexists,anincreaseinthecurrentcarryingvalueofthePCI

loans.Decreasesinexpectedcashflowswillresultinachargetothe

specificprovisionforcreditlossesandanincreaseintheallowancefor

creditlosses.Theimpactoftheseevaluationsfortheyearended

October31,2014wasa$252millionrecoveryinthespecificprovision

forcreditlosses($410millionrecoveryin2013and$509million

recoveryin2012).
AsatOctober31,2014,theamountofPCIloansremainingonthe
balancesheetwas$488million($654millionin2013).Asat

October31,2014,wehavenoremainingcreditmarkrelatedto

purchasedcreditimpairedloans($128millionin2013).
UnfundedCommitmentsandLettersofCreditAcquired
AspartofouracquisitionofM&I,werecordedaliabilityrelatedto

unfundedcommitmentsandlettersofcredit.Thetotalcreditmarkand

interestratemarkassociatedwithunfundedcommitmentsandlettersof

creditareamortizedintonetinterestincomeonastraight-linebasis

overthecontractualtermoftheacquiredliabilities.Asthecreditmarkis

amortized,anappropriatecollectiveallowanceisrecorded,consistent

withourmethodologyforthecollectiveallowance.
Forunfundedcommitmentsandlettersofcredit,theincurredand
futurecreditmarksareamortizedintonetinterestincomeonastraight-

linebasisoverthecontractualtermsofthecommitments.Theimpacton

netinterestincomeofsuchamortizationforunfundedcommitments

andlettersofcreditfortheyearendedOctober31,2014was

$12million($83millionin2013).
AsatOctober31,2014,thecreditmarkremainingonunfunded
commitmentsandlettersofcreditacquiredwas$4million($15million

in2013).
FDICCoveredLoans
Certainacquiredloansaresubjecttoalossshareagreementwiththe

FederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(“FDIC”).Underthisagreement,

theFDICreimbursesusfor80%ofthenetlossesweincuronthe

coveredloans.
Werecordednetrecoveriesof$8millionfortheyearended
October31,2014($15millionin2013).Theseamountsarenetofthe

amountsexpectedtobereimbursedbytheFDIC.
Note5:OtherCreditInstruments
Weuseoff-balancesheetcreditinstrumentsasamethodofmeetingthe

financialneedsofourcustomers.Summarizedbelowarethetypesof

instrumentsthatweuse:
‰Standbylettersofcreditandguaranteesrepresentourobligationto

makepaymentstothirdpartiesonbehalfofanotherpartyifthat

partyisunabletomaketherequiredpaymentsormeetother

contractualrequirements.Standbylettersofcreditandguarantees

includeourguaranteeofasubsidiary’sdebtdirectlyprovidedtoa

thirdparty;
‰Securitieslendingrepresentsourcreditexposurewhenwelendour

securities,orourcustomers’securities,tothirdpartiesshoulda

securitiesborrowerdefaultonitsredeliveryobligation;
‰Documentaryandcommerciallettersofcreditrepresentour

agreementtohonourdraftspresentedbyathirdpartyupon

completionofspecificactivities;and
‰Commitmentstoextendcreditrepresentourcommitmenttoour

customerstograntthemcreditintheformofloansorother

financingsforspecificamountsandmaturities,subjecttotheir

meetingcertainconditions.
Thecontractualamountofourothercreditinstrumentsrepresentsthe

maximumundiscountedpotentialcreditriskifthecounterpartydoesnot

performaccordingtothetermsofthecontract,beforepossible

recoveriesunderrecourseandcollateralprovisions.Collateral

requirementsfortheseinstrumentsareconsistentwithcollateral

requirementsforloans.
Alargemajorityofthesecommitmentsexpirewithoutbeingdrawn
upon.Asaresult,thetotalcontractualamountsmaynotbe

representativeofthefundinglikelytoberequiredforthese

commitments.BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
139NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Westrivetolimitcreditriskbydealingonlywithcounterpartiesthat
webelievearecreditworthy,andwemanageourcreditriskforother
creditinstrumentsusingthesamecreditriskprocessthatisappliedto

loansandothercreditassets.
Summarizedinformationrelatedtovariouscommitmentsisas
follows:(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013ContractualamountContractualamountCreditInstruments
Standbylettersofcreditandguarantees
13,94913,470Securitieslending
4,8723,772Documentaryandcommerciallettersofcredit
1,1111,205Commitmentstoextendcredit
(1)–Originalmaturityofoneyearandunder
16,75213,616–Originalmaturityofoveroneyear
68,50758,244Total105,19190,307(1)Commitmentstoextendcreditexcludepersonallinesofcreditandcreditcardlinesofcredit
thatareunconditionallycancellableatourdiscretion.
Note6:RiskManagement
Wehaveanenterprise-wideapproachtotheidentification,
measurement,monitoringandmanagementofrisksfacedacrossthe

organization.Thekeyrisksrelatedtoourfinancialinstrumentsare

classifiedascreditandcounterparty,market,andliquidityandfunding

risk.CreditandCounterpartyRisk
Creditandcounterpartyriskisthepotentialforlossduetothefailureof

aborrower,endorser,guarantororcounterpartytorepayaloanor

honouranotherpredeterminedfinancialobligation.Creditriskarises

predominantlywithrespecttoloans,over-the-counterderivativesand

othercreditinstruments.Thisisthemostsignificantmeasurablerisk

thatweface.Ourriskmanagementpracticesandkeymeasuresare

disclosedinthetextandtablespresentedinablue-tintedfontin

Management’sDiscussionandAnalysisonpages84to86ofthisreport.

Additionalinformationonloansandderivative-relatedcreditriskis

disclosedinNotes4and10,respectively.
ConcentrationsofCreditandCounterpartyRisk
Concentrationsofcreditriskexistifanumberofclientsareengagedin

similaractivities,arelocatedinthesamegeographicregionorhave

similareconomiccharacteristicssuchthattheirabilitytomeet

contractualobligationscouldbesimilarlyaffectedbychangesin

economic,politicalorotherconditions.Concentrationsofcreditrisk

indicatearelatedsensitivityofourperformancetodevelopments

affectingaparticularcounterparty,industryorgeographiclocation.At

yearend,ourcreditassetsconsistedofawell-diversifiedportfolio

representingmillionsofclients,themajorityofthemconsumersand

smalltomedium-sizedbusinesses.
Fromanindustryviewpoint,ourmostsignificantexposureasat
yearendwastoindividualconsumers,capturedwithintheindividual

sectorinthefollowingtable,comprising$169.0billion($181.6billionin

2013).Additionalinformationonthecompositionofourloansand

derivativesexposureisdisclosedinNotes4and10,respectively.
BaselIIIFramework
WeusetheBaselIIIFrameworkasourcapitalmanagementframework.

WeusetheAdvancedInternalRatingsBased(“AIRB”)approachto

determinecreditrisk-weightedassetsinourportfolioexceptfor

acquiredloansinourM&Iandotherselectportfolios,forwhichweuse

theStandardizedApproach.Theframeworkusesexposureatdefaultto

assesscreditandcounterpartyrisk.Exposuresareclassifiedasfollows:
‰Drawnloansincludeloans,acceptances,depositswithregulated

financialinstitutions,andcertainsecurities.Exposureatdefault

(“EAD”)representsanestimateoftheoutstandingamountofacredit

exposureatthetimeadefaultmayoccur.Foroff-balancesheet

amountsandundrawnamounts,EADincludesanestimateofany

furtheramountsthatmaybedrawnatthetimeofdefault.
‰Undrawncommitmentscoverallunutilizedauthorizations,including

thosewhichareunconditionallycancellable.EADforundrawn

commitmentsismodelgeneratedbasedoninternalempiricaldata.
‰Over-the-counter(“OTC”)derivativesarethoseinourproprietary

accountsthatattractcreditriskinadditiontomarketrisk.EADforOTC

derivativesisequaltothenetgrossreplacementcostplusany

potentialcreditexposureamount.
‰Otheroff-balancesheetexposuresincludeitemssuchasguarantees,

standbylettersofcreditanddocumentarycredits.EADforotheroff-

balancesheetitemsisbasedonmanagement’sbestestimate.
‰Repo-styletransactionsincluderepos,reversereposandsecurities

lendingtransactions,whichrepresentbothassetandliability

exposures.EADforrepo-styletransactionsisthetotalamountdrawn,

addingbackanywrite-offs.
‰AdjustedEADrepresentsexposuresthathavebeenredistributedtoa

morefavourableprobabilityofdefaultbandoradifferentBaselasset

classasaresultofapplyingcreditriskmitigation.
140BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesTotalnon-tradingexposureatdefaultbyindustrysector,asatOctober31,2014and2013,basedontheBaselIIIclassificationsisasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
DrawnCommitments(undrawn)OTCderivatives
Otheroff-balance
sheetitemsRepo-styletransactions
Total201420132014201320142013201420132014201320142013Financialinstitutions
69,17460,44815,16412,6931–2,8252,97840,36227,515127,526
103,634Governments43,03543,1421,8381,581––1,0101,33310,2669,50356,14955,559Manufacturing13,67811,6179,4999,12540141,1891,061––24,40621,817Realestate
18,40818,5325,6024,639––1,0721,122––25,08224,293Retailtrade
11,973
9,3944,9954,675––537532––17,50514,601Serviceindustries
21,94422,9998,8738,161662,7483,5472–33,57334,713Wholesaletrade
8,2607,4654,2533,927––461365––12,97411,757Oilandgas
5,9693,8316,9315,807––612401––13,51210,039Individual132,360139,90536,62741,57626–18678–169,039181,548Agriculture9,0168,0771,9052,256––
3632––10,95710,365Others(1)38,09024,95112,69211,114134,3033,238397–55,48339,306Totalexposureat
default371,907350,361108,379105,554742314,81114,67651,03537,018546,206507,632(1)Includesindustrieshavingatotalexposureoflessthan2%.
Additionalinformationaboutourcreditriskexposurebygeographicregionandproductcategoryforloans,includingcustomers’liabilityunder
acceptances,isprovidedinNote4.
CreditQuality
Weassignriskratingsbasedonprobabilitiesastowhether

counterpartieswilldefaultontheirfinancialobligationstous.Our

processforassigningriskratingsisdisclosedinthetextpresentedina

blue-tintedfontintheEnterprise-WideRiskManagementsectionof

Management’sDiscussionandAnalysisonpages85to86ofthisreport.
BasedontheBaselIIIclassifications,thefollowingtablespresent
ourretailandwholesalecreditexposurebyriskratingonanadjusted

exposureatdefaultbasisasatOctober31,2014and2013.Wholesale

includesallloansthatarenotclassifiedasretail.
WholesaleCreditExposurebyRiskRating
(Canadian$inmillions)
DrawnUndrawn
(1)20142013BankCorporateSovereignBankCorporateSovereign
TotalexposureTotalexposureInvestmentgrade
19,98286,291101,1282,76447,0712,218259,454
230,658Non-investmentgrade
3,46540,99618325216,449
361,348
51,659Watchlist92,058
1–451
–2,519
2,470Default1938
3189–1,032
2,086Total23,457130,283101,3153,01764,0602,221324,353
286,873(1)Includedintheundrawnamountsareuncommittedexposuresof$24,051millionin2014($23,662millionin2013).
RetailCreditDrawnExposurebyPortfolioandRiskRating
(Canadian$inmillions)
Residentialmortgagesand
homeequitylinesofcreditQualifyingrevolvingretail(1)
Otherretailandretailsmall
andmedium-sizedenterprises
201420132014201320142013Riskprofile(probabilityofdefault):
Exceptionallylow(
0.05%)1,108983883208571Verylow(>0.05%to0.20%)
45,42447,6225591,7114,4477,521Low(>0.20%to0.75%)
9,64911,2162,9132,5786,6807,995Medium(>0.75%to7.00%)
11,0118,9252,5042,0736,1477,255High(>7.00%to99.99%)
3,5213,503288293322294Default(100%)
822829433611786Total71,53573,0786,3957,01117,79823,222(1)Qualifyingrevolvingretailincludesexposurestoindividualsthatarerevolving,unsecuredanduncommitteduptoamaximumamountof$125,000toasingleindividual.
LoansPastDueNotImpaired
Loansthatarepastduebutnotclassifiedasimpairedareloanswhereourcustomershavefailedtomakepaymentswhencontractuallydue,butfor

whichweexpectthefullamountofprincipalandinterestpaymentstobecollected.Thefollowingtablepresentstheloansthatarepastduebutnot

classifiedasimpairedasatOctober31,2014and2013:
LoansPastDueNotImpaired
(Canadian$inmillions)
1to29days30to89days90daysormoreTotal
20142013201420132014201320142013Residentialmortgages
(1)64764148852437651,1721,230Creditcard,consumerinstalmentandotherpersonalloans
1,9151,747471434104952,4902,276Businessandgovernmentloans
4148051262941691837091,282Customers’liabilityunderacceptances
20–459––2459Total2,9963,1931,0891,3113103434,3954,847(1)Thepercentageofloans90daysormorepastduebutnotimpairedthatwereguaranteedbytheGovernmentofCanadais5%for2014and5%for2013.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
141NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
LoanMaturitiesandRateSensitivity
Thefollowingtablepresentsgrossloansandacceptancesbycontractualmaturityandbycountryofultimaterisk:
(Canadian$inmillions)
1yearorless
Over1year
Over5years
Total20142013201420132014201320142013CanadaConsumer50,02645,84793,48692,5435,9846,990149,496145,380Commercialandcorporate(excludingrealestate)
41,60837,43510,9818,4861411,47252,73047,393Commercialrealestate
4,5065,4055,3314,5401,42777811,26410,723UnitedStates
22,29217,67041,08436,19516,75914,64080,13568,505Othercountries
10,6328,36546559350–11,1478,958Total129,064114,722151,347142,35724,36123,880304,772280,959Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’spresentationandforchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
Thefollowingtableanalyzesnetloansandacceptancesbyinterestrate
sensitivity:(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Fixedrate
150,021139,832Floatingrate
142,139130,990Non-interestsensitive
(1)10,8788,472Total303,038279,294(1)Non-interestsensitiveloansandacceptancesincludecustomers’liabilityunderacceptances.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’s

presentationandchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
MarketRisk
Marketriskisthepotentialforadversechangesinthevalueofour

assetsandliabilitiesresultingfromchangesinmarketvariablessuchas

interestrates,foreignexchangerates,equityandcommoditypricesand

theirimpliedvolatilities,andcreditspreads,aswellastheriskofcredit

migrationanddefault.Weincurmarketriskinourtradingand

underwritingactivitiesandinthemanagementofstructuralmarketrisk

inourbankingandinsuranceactivities.
Ourmarketriskmanagementpracticesandkeymeasuresare
disclosedinthetextandtablespresentedinablue-tintedfontinthe

Enterprise-WideRiskManagementsectionofManagement’sDiscussion

andAnalysisonpages91to95ofthisreport.
LiquidityandFundingRisk
Liquidityandfundingriskisthepotentialforlossifweareunableto

meetfinancialcommitmentsinatimelymanneratreasonablepricesas

theyfalldue.Itisourpolicytoensurethatsufficientliquidassetsand

fundingcapacityareavailabletomeetfinancialcommitments,including

liabilitiestodepositorsandsuppliers,andlending,investmentand

pledgingcommitments,evenintimesofstress.Managingliquidityand

fundingriskisessentialtomaintainingbothdepositorconfidenceand

stabilityinearnings.
Ourliquidityandfundingriskmanagementpracticesandkey
measuresaredisclosedinthetextpresentedinablue-tintedfontinthe

Enterprise-WideRiskManagementsectionofManagement’sDiscussion

andAnalysisonpages95to99ofthisreport.
Note7:Guarantees
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,weenterintoavarietyofguarantees.

Guaranteesincludecontractswherewemayberequiredtomake

paymentstoacounterparty,basedonchangesinthevalueofanasset,

liabilityorequitysecuritythatthecounterpartyholds,duetochangesin

anunderlyinginterestrate,foreignexchangerateorothervariable.In

addition,contractsunderwhichwemayberequiredtomakepayments

toreimbursethecounterpartyforalossifathirdpartydoesnotperform

accordingtothetermsofacontractordoesnotmakepaymentswhen

dueunderthetermsofadebtinstrument,andcontractsunderwhich

weprovideindirectguaranteesoftheindebtednessofanotherparty,

areconsideredguarantees.
Guaranteesthatqualifyasderivativesareaccountedforin
accordancewiththepolicyforderivativeinstruments(seeNote10).For

guaranteesthatdonotqualifyasderivatives,theliabilityisinitially

recordedatfairvalue,whichisgenerallythefeetobereceived.

Subsequently,guaranteesarerecordedatthehigheroftheinitialfair

value,lessamortizationtorecognizeanyfeeincomeearnedoverthe

period,andthebestestimateoftheamountrequiredtosettlethe

obligation.AnyincreaseintheliabilityisreportedinourConsolidated

StatementofIncome.
Themostsignificantguaranteesareasfollows:
StandbyLettersofCreditandGuarantees
Standbylettersofcreditandguaranteesrepresentourobligationto

makepaymentstothirdpartiesonbehalfofanotherpartyifthatparty

isunabletomaketherequiredpaymentsormeetothercontractual

requirements.Themaximumamountpayableunderstandbylettersof

creditandguaranteestotalled$13,949millionasatOctober31,2014
($13,470millionin2013).Themajorityhaveatermofoneyearorless.

Collateralrequirementsforstandbylettersofcreditandguaranteesare

consistentwithourcollateralrequirementsforloans.Alargemajorityof

thesecommitmentsexpirewithoutbeingdrawnupon.Asaresult,the

totalcontractualamountsmaynotberepresentativeofthefunding

likelytoberequiredforthesecommitments.
AsatOctober31,2014,$50million($41millionin2013)was
includedinotherliabilitiesrelatedtoguaranteedpartiesthatwere

unabletomeettheirobligationstoathirdparty(seeNote4).Noother

amountwasincludedinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetasat

October31,2014and2013relatedtothesestandbylettersofcreditand

guarantees.BackstopandOtherLiquidityFacilities
Backstopliquidityfacilitiesareprovidedtoasset-backedcommercial

paper(“ABCP”)programsadministeredbyeitherusorthirdpartiesasan

alternativesourceoffinancingintheeventthatsuchprogramsare

unabletoaccessABCPmarketsorwhenpredeterminedperformance

measuresofthefinancialassetsheldbytheseprogramsarenotmet.

Thetermsofthebackstopliquidityfacilitiesdonotrequireusto

advancemoneytotheseprogramsintheeventofbankruptcyofthe

borrower.Thefacilities’termsaregenerallynolongerthanoneyear,but

canbeseveralyears.
Themaximumamountpayableunderthesebackstopandother
liquidityfacilitiestotalled$5,501millionasatOctober31,2014

($4,512millionin2013).AsatOctober31,2014,$53millionwas

outstandingfromfacilitiesdrawninaccordancewiththetermsofthe

backstopliquidityfacilities($145millionin2013).
142BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesCreditEnhancementFacilities
Wherewarranted,weprovidepartialcreditenhancementfacilitiesfor
transactionswithinABCPprogramsadministeredbyeitherusorthird

parties.Creditenhancementfacilitiesareincludedinbackstopliquidity

facilities.DerivativesCertainofourderivativeinstrumentsmeettheaccountingdefinitionofa

guaranteewhentheyrequiretheissuertomakepaymentstoreimburse

theholderforalossincurredbecauseadebtorfailstomakepayment

whendueunderthetermsofadebtinstrument.Inordertoreduceour

exposuretothesederivatives,weenterintocontractsthathedgethe

relatedrisks.
Writtencreditdefaultswapsrequireustocompensatea
counterpartyfollowingtheoccurrenceofacrediteventinrelationtoa

specifiedreferenceobligation,suchasabondoraloan.Themaximum

amountpayableundercreditdefaultswapsisequaltotheirnotional

amountof$11,983millionasatOctober31,2014($13,288millionin

2013).Thetermsofthesecontractsrangefromlessthanoneyearto10

years.Thefairvalueoftherelatedderivativeliabilitiesincludedin

derivativeinstrumentsinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetwas

$124millionasatOctober31,2014($102millionin2013).
ExchangeandClearinghouseGuarantees
Weareamemberofseveralsecuritiesandfuturesexchangesand

clearinghouses.Membershipincertainoftheseorganizationsmay

requireustopayaproratashareofthelossesincurredbythe

organizationintheeventofdefaultofanothermember.Such
obligationsvarywithdifferentorganizations.Theseobligationsmaybe

limitedtomemberswhodealtwiththedefaultingmember,anamount

relatedtoourcontributiontoamember’sguaranteefund,oranamount

specifiedinthemembershipagreement.Itisdifficulttoestimateour

maximumexposureunderthesemembershipagreements,sincethis

wouldrequireanassessmentoffutureclaimsthatmaybemadeagainst

usthathavenotyetoccurred.Basedonhistoricalexperience,weexpect

theriskoflosstoberemote.
IndemnificationAgreements
Inthenormalcourseofoperations,weenterintovariousagreements

thatprovidegeneralindemnifications.Theseindemnificationstypically

occurinconnectionwithsalesofassets,securitiesofferings,service

contracts,membershipagreements,clearingarrangements,derivative

contractsandleasingtransactions.Wealsohaveasecuritieslending

businessthatlendssecuritiesownedbyclientstoborrowerswhohave

beenevaluatedforcreditriskusingthesamecreditriskprocessthatis

appliedtoloansandothercreditassets.Inconnectionwiththese

activities,weprovideanindemnificationtolendersagainstlosses

resultingfromthefailureoftheborrowertoreturnloanedsecurities

whendue.Allborrowingsarefullycollateralizedwithcashor

marketablesecurities.Assecuritiesareloaned,werequireborrowersto

maintaincollateralwhichisequaltoorinexcessof100%ofthefair

valueofthesecuritiesborrowed.Thecollateralisrevaluedonadaily

basis.Theamountofsecuritiesloanedsubjecttoindemnificationwas

$5,269millionasatOctober31,2014($4,778millionin2013).No

amountwasincludedinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetasat

October31,2014and2013relatedtotheseindemnifications.
Note8:AssetSecuritization
Periodically,wesecuritizeloanstoobtainalternatesourcesoffunding.

Securitizationinvolvessellingloanstotrusts(“securitizationvehicles”),

whichbuytheloansandthenissueeitherinterestbearingordiscounted

investorcertificates.
WeuseabanksecuritizationvehicletosecuritizeourCanadian
creditcardloans.Wearerequiredtoconsolidatethisvehicle.SeeNote9

forfurtherinformation.WealsosellCanadianmortgageloanstothird-

partyCanadiansecuritizationprograms,includingtheCanadianMortgage

Bondprogram,anddirectlytothird-partyinvestorsundertheNational

HousingActMortgage-BackedSecuritiesprogram.
Weassesswhethertheloansqualifyforoff-balancesheet
treatmentbasedonthetransferoftherisksandrewards.
Undertheseprograms,weareentitledtothepaymentovertimeof
theexcessofthesumofinterestandfeescollectedfromcustomers,in

connectionwiththeloansthatweresold,overtheyieldpaidto

investorsinthesecuritizationvehicleorthird-partysecuritization

program,lesscreditlossesandothercosts.
Theloanssoldtothird-partysecuritizationprogramsordirectlyto
thirdpartiesdonotqualifyforoff-balancesheetrecognitionaswehave
determinedthatthetransferoftheseloanshasnotresultedinthe

transferofsubstantiallyalltherisksandrewards,sincewecontinueto

beexposedtosubstantiallyalloftheprepayment,interestrateand/or

creditriskassociatedwiththesecuritizedloans.Wecontinueto

recognizetheloansinourConsolidatedBalanceSheet,andwe

recognizetheinstrumentsissuedasaliabilityrepresentingasecured

financing.Thecarryingamountofassetsinthetablebelowreflectsthe

valueofthesecuritizedmortgages,aswellaspaymentsreceivedon

securitizedmortgagesthatareheldinthevehicleordesignated

accounts.Theinterestandfeescollected,netoftheyieldpaidto

investors,isrecordedinnetinterestincomeusingtheeffectiveinterest

methodoverthetermofthesecuritization.Creditlossesassociatedwith

theloansarerecordedintheprovisionforcreditlosses.Duringtheyear

endedOctober31,2014,wesold$5,564millionofloanstothird-party

securitizationprograms($6,704millionin2013),whichdoesnotinclude

amountsthatweretransferredandrepurchasedduringtheyear.
ThefollowingtableshowsthecarryingamountsrelatedtosecuritizationactivitieswiththirdpartiesthatarerecordedinourConsolidatedBalance

Sheet,togetherwiththeassociatedliabilities,foreachcategoryofassetonthebalancesheet:
(Canadian$inmillions)
2014(1)2013
Carryingamountof
assetsAssociatedliabilitiesCarryingamountof
assetsAssociatedliabilitiesResidentialmortgages
9,5699,956Otherrelatedassets
(2)8,3828,660Total17,95117,546
18,61618,235
(1)Thefairvalueofthesecuritizedassetsis$18,078millionandthefairvalueoftheassociated
liabilitiesis$17,858million,foranetpositionof$220million.Securitizedassetsarethose

whichwehavetransferredtothirdparties,includingotherrelatedassets.
(2)Otherrelatedassetsrepresentpaymentsreceivedonaccountofloanspledgedunder
securitizationthathavenotbeenappliedagainsttheassociatedliabilities.Thepayments
receivedareheldonbehalfoftheinvestorsinthesecuritizationvehiclesuntilprincipal

paymentsarerequiredtobemadeontheassociatedliabilities.Inordertocompareall

assetssupportingtheassociatedliabilities,thisamountisaddedtothecarryingvalueofthe

securitizedassetsinthetableabove.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
143NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Note9:StructuredEntities
Weenterintocertaintransactionsintheordinarycourseofbusiness
whichinvolvetheestablishmentofstructuredentities(“SEs”)to

facilitateorsecurecustomertransactionsandtoobtainalternative

sourcesoffunding.WearerequiredtoconsolidateanSEifwecontrol

theentity.WecontrolanSEwhenwehavepowerovertheSE,exposure

tovariablereturnsasaresultofourinvolvement,andtheabilityto

exercisepowertoaffecttheamountofourreturns.
InassessingwhetherwecontrolanSE,weconsidertheentire
arrangementtodeterminethepurposeanddesignoftheSE,thenature

ofanyrightsheldthroughcontractualarrangementsandwhetherwe

areactingasaprincipaloragent.
Weperformare-assessmentofconsolidationiffactsand
circumstancesindicatethattherehavebeenchangestooneormoreof

theelementsofcontrolovertheSE.
ConsolidatedStructuredEntities
TotalassetsandliabilitiesincludedinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetrelatedtoourconsolidatedSEsandourexposuretolossesaresummarizedin

thefollowingtable:
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013BanksecuritizationvehiclesU.S.customersecuritizationvehicleCreditprotectionvehicleCapitaland
fundingvehicles(2)BanksecuritizationvehiclesU.S.customersecuritizationvehicleCreditprotectionvehicle(1)
Capitaland
fundingvehicles(2)
Cashandcashequivalents
3468394649
253701,430351
Loans7,2663,036–16,435
7,1903,537–20,717
Other–3––
–3––
7,3003,10739417,084
7,2153,9101,43021,068
Deposits–2,926–
––3,578––
Other4,998316318
4,328253018
4,9982,92916318
4,3283,58053018
Exposuretoloss
Securitiesheld
2,012–253840
1,499–922840
Drawnfacilities
–149–14,793
–264–18,595
Undrawnfacilities
(1)–5,236–10,361
–4,417–8,455
Derivativeassets
––1358
––2084
2,0125,38526626,052
1,4994,68194227,974
(1)DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2013,theseniorfundingfacilityprovidedtoourcredit
protectionvehiclewasterminated.
(2)Theloansbalanceprimarilyconsistsofmortgagestransferredtoourcoveredbonds
programs.Mortgagesinexcessoftheamountofcoveredbondsoutstandingplusthe

minimumrequiredover-collateralizationamountsundertheseprogramsarereadily
availabletous.Theundrawnfacilitiesalsoprimarilyrelatetoourcoveredbondprograms;

weretaintheauthoritytodeterminewhetherthefacilitiesareutilized.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccounting

principles–seeNote1.
BankSecuritizationVehicles
WeusesecuritizationvehiclestosecuritizeourCanadiancreditcard

loansinordertoobtainalternatesourcesoffunding.Thestructureof

thesevehicleslimitstheactivitiestheycanundertakeandthetypesof

assetstheycanhold,andthevehicleshavelimiteddecision-making

authority.Thevehiclesissuetermasset-backedsecuritiestofundtheir

activities.Wecontrolandconsolidatethesevehicles,aswehavethekey

decision-makingpowersnecessarytoobtainthemajorityofthebenefits

oftheiractivities.
U.S.CustomerSecuritizationVehicle
Wesponsoracustomersecuritizationvehicle(alsoreferredtoasabank-

sponsoredmulti-sellerconduit)thatprovidesourcustomerswith

alternatesourcesoffundingthroughthesecuritizationoftheirassets.

Thisvehicleprovidesclientswithaccesstofinancingintheasset-backed

commercialpaper(“ABCP”)marketsbyallowingthemtoselltheir

assetsintothevehicle,whichthenissuesABCPtoinvestorstofundthe

purchases.Wedonotsellassetstothecustomersecuritizationvehicle.

Weearnfeesforprovidingservicesrelatedtothesecuritizations,

includingliquidity,distributionandfinancialarrangementfeesfor

supportingtheongoingoperationsofthevehicle.Wehavedetermined

thatwecontrolandthereforeconsolidatethisvehicle,asweare

exposedtothevariablereturnsoftheentityandwehavethekey

decision-makingpowersnecessarytoaffecttheamountofthosereturns

inourcapacityasliquidityproviderandservicingagent.
CreditProtectionVehicle
Wesponsoracreditprotectionvehiclewhichprovidescreditprotection

toinvestorsoninvestmentsincorporatedebtportfoliosthroughcredit

defaultswaps.InMay2008,upontherestructuringofthevehicle,we

enteredintocreditdefaultswapswithswapcounterpartiesand

offsettingswapswiththevehicle.In2014,thevehicleredeemed$1,049

millionofitsoutstandingmedium-termnotes($742millionin2013),of

which$678million($480millionin2013)wereheldbyus.Wecontinue

tohold$256millionofoutstandingmedium-termnotes.Asat

October31,2014and2013,wehavehedgedourexposuretoour

holdingsofnotesissuedbythevehicle.Athirdpartyholdsitsexposure

tothevehiclethroughatotalreturnswapwithuson$109millionof

notes.Wecontrolandthereforeconsolidatethisvehicle.
CapitalandFundingVehicles
Capitalandfundingvehiclesarecreatedtoissuenotesorcapitaltrust

securitiesortoguaranteepaymentsduetobondholdersonbonds

issuedbyus.Thesevehiclespurchasenotesfromus,orwemaysell

assetstothevehiclesinexchangeforpromissorynotes.
Forthosetruststhatpurchaseassetsfromus,wehavedetermined
that,basedontherightsofthearrangements,wehavesignificant

exposuretothevariablereturnsoftheentitiesasweareexposedtothe

variabilityoftheirunderlyingassets;thereforewehavedeterminedthat

weareoperatingastheprincipalintheentities,andthatwecontroland

thereforeconsolidatethesevehicles.SeeNote1andNote18forfurther

informationrelatedtocapitaltrusts.
144BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesUnconsolidatedStructuredEntities
ThetablebelowpresentsamountsrelatedtoourinterestsinunconsolidatedSEs:
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013CapitalandfundingvehiclesCanadiancustomersecuritizationvehicles(1)(2)
StructuredfinancevehiclesCapitalandfundingvehiclesCanadiancustomersecuritizationvehicles(1)(2)
StructuredfinancevehiclesInterestsrecordedonthebalancesheet
Cashandcashequivalents
1139–
852–
Tradingsecurities
21010,414
21312,120
Available-for-salesecurities
–652–
–721–
Other––4
2––119
1370110,456
1078612,239
Deposits1,265395,853
1,254526,584
Derivatives––1,115
––985
Other21–3,447
20–4,582
1,2863910,415
1,2745212,151
Exposuretoloss
Securitiesheld
266210,414
273412,120
Drawnfacilities
12––
12––
Undrawnfacilities
434,565
na433,866
na575,22710,414
574,60012,120
Totalassetsoftheentities
1,2863,78310,456
(1)Theseundrawnfacilitiesrepresentbackstopliquidityfacilities.Themajorityofthesefacilities
arenotrelatedtocreditsupportasatOctober31,2014and2013.
na-notapplicable
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’s

presentationandrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
(2)SecuritiesheldthatareissuedbyourCanadiancustomersecuritizationvehiclesare
comprisedofasset-backedcommercialpaperandareclassifiedastradingsecuritiesand

available-for-salesecurities.AllassetsheldbythesevehiclesrelatetoassetsinCanada.
CapitalandFundingVehicles
Certainofourcapitalandfundingvehiclespurchasenotesissuedbyus

astheirunderlyingassets.Inthesesituations,wearenotexposedto

significantdefaultorcreditrisk.Ourremainingexposuretovariable

returnsislessthanthatofthenoteholders,whoareexposedtoour

defaultandcreditrisk.Wehavedeterminedthatweareoperatinginthe

capacityofanagentinthesesituations,andthereforewedonot

consolidatethesevehicles.SeeNote1andNote18forfurther

informationrelatedtocapitaltrusts.
CanadianCustomerSecuritizationVehicles
ForourCanadiancustomersecuritizationvehicles,wehavedetermined

thatwedonothavecontroloftheseentitiesasthekeyrelevant

activity,theservicingofprogramassets,doesnotresidewithus.
StructuredFinanceVehicles
Wefacilitatedevelopmentofinvestmentproductsbythirdparties,

includingmutualfunds,unitinvestmenttrustsandotherinvestment

fundsthataresoldtoretailinvestors.Weenterintoderivativecontracts

withthesefundstoprovidetheinvestorstheirdesiredexposure,and

wehedgeourexposurerelatedtothesederivativecontractsby

investinginotherfundsthroughSEs.Wearenotrequiredtoconsolidate

thesevehicles.
CompensationTrusts
Wehaveestablishedtrustsinordertoadministerouremployeeshare

ownershipplan.Underthisplan,employeescandirectaportionoftheir

grosssalarytowardsthepurchaseofourcommonsharesandwematch

50%ofemployees’contributionsupto6%oftheirindividualgross

salary.Ourmatchingcontributionsarepaidintotrusts,whichpurchase

ourcommonsharesontheopenmarketfordistributiontoemployees

onceemployeesareentitledtothesharesunderthetermsoftheplan.

Totalassetsheldbyourcompensationtrustsamountedto

$1,413millionasatOctober31,2014($1,343millionin2013).Weare

notrequiredtoconsolidatethesecompensationtrusts.Thesetrustsare

notincludedinthetableaboveaswehavenointerestinthetrusts.
BMOManagedFunds
Wehaveestablishedanumberoffundsthatwealsomanage.We

assesswhetherornotwecontrolthesefundsbasedontheeconomic

interestwehaveinthefunds,includinginvestmentsinthefundsand

managementfees,andanyinvestors’rightstoremoveusasinvestment

manager.Basedonourassessment,wehavedeterminedthatwedo

notcontrolthesefunds.OurtotalexposuretounconsolidatedBMO

managedfundswas$513millionatOctober31,2014.
Non-BMOManagedFunds
Wepurchaseandholdunitsofnon-BMOmanagedfundsforinvestment

andotherpurposes.Weareconsideredtohaveaninterestinthese

fundsthroughourholdingofunits,andbecausewemayactas

counterpartyincertainderivativecontractsorotherinterests.These

activitiesdonotconstitutecontrol,andasaresultourinterestsinthese

fundsarenotconsolidated.Ourtotalexposuretonon-BMOmanaged

fundswas$11,647millionatOctober31,2014.
OtherSEs
WeareinvolvedwithotherentitiesthatmaypotentiallybeSEs.This

involvementcaninclude,forexample,actingasaderivatives

counterparty,liquidityprovider,investor,fundmanagerortrustee.These

activitiesdonotcauseustocontroltheSEs.Asaresult,wearenot

requiredtoconsolidatetheseSEs.TransactionswiththeseSEsare

conductedatmarketrates,andindividualcreditorinvestmentdecisions

arebaseduponananalysisofthespecificSE,takingintoconsideration

thequalityoftheunderlyingassets.Werecordandreportthese

transactionsinthesamemannerasothertransactions.Forexample,

derivativecontractsarerecordedinaccordancewithourderivatives

accountingpolicyasoutlinedinNote10.Liquidityfacilitiesand

indemnificationagreementsaredescribedinNote7.
WearedeemedtobethesponsorofanSEifweareinvolvedinthe
design,legalset-upormarketingoftheSE.Wearealsodeemedtobe

thesponsorofanSEifmarketparticipantswouldreasonablyassociate

theentitywithus.WedonothaveaninterestincertainSEsthatwe

havesponsored.Theamountsofrevenueearnedfromandassets

transferredtosuchentitiesarenotsignificant.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
145NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Note10:DerivativeInstruments
Derivativeinstrumentsarefinancialcontractsthatderivetheirvalue
fromunderlyingchangesininterestrates,foreignexchangeratesor

otherfinancialorcommoditypricesorindices.
Derivativeinstrumentsareeitherregulatedexchange-traded
contractsornegotiatedover-the-countercontracts.Weusethese

instrumentsfortradingpurposes,aswellastomanageourexposures,

mainlytocurrencyandinterestratefluctuations,aspartofourasset/

liabilitymanagementprogram.
TypesofDerivatives
SwapsSwapsarecontractualagreementsbetweentwopartiestoexchangea

seriesofcashflows.Thevariousswapagreementsthatweenterinto

areasfollows:
Interestrateswaps–counterpartiesgenerallyexchangefixedand
floatingrateinterestpaymentsbasedonanotionalvalueinasingle

currency.Cross-currencyswaps–fixedrateinterestpaymentsandprincipal
amountsareexchangedindifferentcurrencies.
Cross-currencyinterestrateswaps–fixedand/orfloatingrate
interestpaymentsandprincipalamountsareexchangedindifferent

currencies.Commodityswaps–counterpartiesgenerallyexchangefixedand
floatingratepaymentsbasedonanotionalvalueofasinglecommodity.
Equityswaps–counterpartiesexchangethereturnonanequity
securityoragroupofequitysecuritiesforthereturnbasedonafixedor

floatinginterestrateorthereturnonanotherequitysecurityorgroupof

equitysecurities.
Creditdefaultswaps–onecounterpartypaystheotherafeein
exchangeforthatothercounterpartyagreeingtomakeapaymentifa

crediteventoccurs,suchasbankruptcyorfailuretopay.
Totalreturnswaps–onecounterpartyagreestopayorreceivefrom
theothercashamountsbasedonchangesinthevalueofareference

assetorgroupofassets,includinganyreturnssuchasinterestearned

ontheseassets,inexchangeforamountsthatarebasedonprevailing

marketfundingrates.
Themainrisksassociatedwiththeseinstrumentsarerelatedto
exposuretomovementsininterestrates,foreignexchangerates,credit

quality,securitiesvaluesorcommoditiesprices,asapplicable,andthe

possibleinabilityofcounterpartiestomeetthetermsofthecontracts.
ForwardsandFutures
Forwardsandfuturesarecontractualagreementstoeitherbuyorsella

specifiedamountofacurrency,commodity,interest-rate-sensitive

financialinstrumentorsecurityataspecifiedpriceanddateinthe

future.Forwardsarecustomizedcontractstransactedintheover-the-
countermarket.Futuresaretransactedinstandardizedamountson

regulatedexchangesandaresubjecttodailycashmargining.
Themainrisksassociatedwiththeseinstrumentsarisefromthe
possibleinabilityofover-the-countercounterpartiestomeettheterms

ofthecontractsandfrommovementsincommoditiesprices,securities

values,interestratesandforeignexchangerates,asapplicable.
OptionsOptionsarecontractualagreementsthatconveytothepurchaserthe

rightbutnottheobligationtoeitherbuyorsellaspecifiedamountofa

currency,commodity,interest-rate-sensitivefinancialinstrumentor

securityatafixedfuturedateoratanytimewithinafixedfuture

period.Foroptionswrittenbyus,wereceiveapremiumfromthe
purchaserforacceptingmarketrisk.
Foroptionspurchasedbyus,wepayapremiumfortherightto
exercisetheoption.Sincewehavenoobligationtoexercisetheoption,
ourprimaryexposuretoriskisthepotentialcreditriskifthewriterofan

over-the-countercontractfailstomeetthetermsofthecontract.
Caps,collarsandfloorsarespecializedtypesofwrittenand
purchasedoptions.Theyarecontractualagreementsinwhichthewriter

agreestopaythepurchaser,basedonaspecifiednotionalamount,the

differencebetweenthemarketrateandtheprescribedrateofthecap,

collarorfloor.Thewriterreceivesapremiumforsellingthisinstrument.
Aswaptionisanoptiongrantingitsownertherightbutnotthe
obligationtoenterintoanunderlyingswap.
Afutureoptionisanoptioncontractinwhichtheunderlying
instrumentisasinglefuturescontract.
UseofDerivatives
TradingDerivatives
Tradingderivativesincludederivativesenteredintowithcustomersto

accommodatetheirriskmanagementneeds,market-makingtofacilitate

customer-drivendemandforderivatives,derivativestransactedona

limitedbasistogeneratetradingincomefromourprincipaltrading

positionsandcertainderivativesthatareexecutedaspartofourrisk

managementstrategythatdonotqualifyashedgesforaccounting

purposes(“economichedges”).
Westructureandmarketderivativeproductstoenablecustomersto
transfer,modifyorreducecurrentorexpectedrisks.
Principaltradingactivitiesincludemarket-makingandpositioning
activities.Market-makinginvolvesquotingbidandofferpricestoother

marketparticipantswiththeintentionofgeneratingrevenuesbasedon

spreadandvolume.Positioningactivitiesinvolvemanagingmarketrisk

positionswiththeexpectationofprofitingfromfavourablemovements

inprices,ratesorindices.
Wemayalsooccasionallytakeprincipaltradingpositionsincapital
marketinstrumentsandderivativesthat,takentogether,aredesigned

toprofitfromanticipatedchangesinmarketconditions.
Tradingderivativesaremarkedtofairvalue.Realizedand
unrealizedgainsandlossesarerecordedintradingrevenues(losses)in

ourConsolidatedStatementofIncome.Unrealizedgainsontrading

derivativesarerecordedasderivativeinstrumentassetsandunrealized

lossesarerecordedasderivativeinstrumentliabilitiesinour

ConsolidatedBalanceSheet.
HedgingDerivatives
Inaccordancewithourriskmanagementstrategy,weenterintovarious

derivativecontractstohedgeourinterestrateandforeigncurrency

exposures.RisksHedged
InterestRateRisk
Wemanageinterestrateriskthroughbonds,interestratefutures,

interestrateswapsandoptions,whicharelinkedtoandadjustthe

interestratesensitivityofaspecificasset,liability,forecasted

transactionorfirmcommitment,oraspecificpooloftransactionswith

similarriskcharacteristics.
ForeignCurrencyRisk
Wemanageforeigncurrencyriskthroughcurrencyfutures,foreign

currencyoptions,cross-currencyswapsandforwardcontracts.These

derivativesaremarkedtomarket,withrealizedandunrealizedgains

andlossesrecordedinnon-interestrevenue,consistentwiththe

accountingtreatmentforgainsandlossesontheeconomicallyhedged

item.Changesinfairvalueonforwardcontractsthatqualifyas

accountinghedgesarerecordedinothercomprehensiveincome,with

thespot/forwarddifferential(thedifferencebetweentheforeign

currencyexchangerateatinceptionofthecontractandtherateatthe

endofthecontract)beingrecordedininterestexpenseoverthetermof

thehedge.
146BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesWealsosometimeseconomicallyhedgeU.S.dollarearnings
throughforwardforeignexchangecontractstominimizefluctuationsin
ourCanadiandollarearningsduetothetranslationofourU.S.dollar

earnings.Thesecontractsaremarkedtofairvalue,withgainsandlosses

recordedasnon-interestrevenueinforeignexchange,otherthan

trading.AccountingHedges
Inorderforaderivativetoqualifyasanaccountinghedge,thehedging

relationshipmustbedesignatedandformallydocumentedatits

inception,detailingtheparticularriskmanagementobjectiveand

strategyforthehedgeandthespecificasset,liabilityorcashflowbeing

hedged,aswellashowitseffectivenessisbeingassessed.Changesin

thefairvalueofthederivativemustbehighlyeffectiveinoffsetting

eitherchangesinthefairvalueofon-balancesheetitemsresultingfrom

theriskbeinghedgedorchangesintheamountoffuturecashflows.
Hedgeeffectivenessisevaluatedattheinceptionofthehedging
relationshipandonanongoingbasis,retrospectivelyandprospectively,

primarilyusingquantitativestatisticalmeasuresofcorrelation.Any

ineffectivenessinthehedgingrelationshipisrecognizedinnon-interest

revenue,other,inourConsolidatedStatementofIncomeasitarises.
CashFlowHedges
Cashflowhedgesmodifyexposuretovariabilityincashflowsfor

variablerateinterestbearinginstrumentsandassetsandliabilities

denominatedinforeigncurrencies.Ourcashflowhedges,whichhavea

maximumremainingtermtomaturityoftenyears,arehedgesof

floatingrateloansanddepositsaswellasassetsandliabilities

denominatedinforeigncurrencies.
Werecordinterestthatwepayorreceiveonthesederivativesas
anadjustmenttonetinterestincomeinourConsolidatedStatementof

Incomeoverthelifeofthehedge.
Totheextentthatchangesinthefairvalueofthederivativeoffset
changesinthefairvalueofthehedgeditem,theyarerecordedinother

comprehensiveincome.Theexcessofthechangeinfairvalueofthe

derivativethatdoesnotoffsetchangesinthefairvalueofthehedged

item(the“ineffectivenessofthehedge”)isrecordeddirectlyinnon-

interestrevenue,other,inourConsolidatedStatementofIncome.
Forcashflowhedgesthatarediscontinuedbeforetheendofthe
originalhedgeterm,theunrealizedgainorlossrecordedinother

comprehensiveincomeisamortizedtonetinterestincomeinour

ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeasthehedgeditemaffectsearnings.

Ifthehedgeditemissoldorsettled,theentireunrealizedgainorlossis

recognizedinnetinterestincomeinourConsolidatedStatementof

Income.Theamountofunrealizedgainthatweexpecttoreclassifyto

ourConsolidatedStatementofIncomeoverthenext12monthsis

$96million($71millionaftertax).Thiswilladjusttheinterestrecorded

onassetsandliabilitiesthatwerehedged.
FairValueHedges
Fairvaluehedgesmodifyexposuretochangesinafixedrate

instrument’sfairvaluecausedbychangesininterestrates.These

hedgesconvertfixedrateassetsandliabilitiestofloatingrate.Ourfair

valuehedgesincludehedgesoffixedratesecurities,depositsand

subordinateddebt.
Werecordinterestreceivableorpayableonthesederivativesasan
adjustmenttonetinterestincomeinourConsolidatedStatementof

Incomeoverthelifeofthehedge.
Forfairvaluehedges,notonlyisthehedgingderivativerecordedat
fairvaluebutfixedrateassetsandliabilitiesthatarepartofahedging

relationshipareadjustedforthechangesinvalueoftheriskbeing

hedged(“quasifairvalue”).Totheextentthatthechangeinthefair

valueofthederivativedoesnotoffsetchangesinthequasifairvalueof

thehedgeditem(the“ineffectivenessofthehedge”),thenetamountis

recordeddirectlyinnon-interestrevenue,other,inourConsolidated

StatementofIncome.
Forfairvaluehedgesthatarediscontinued,weceaseadjustingthe
hedgeditemtoquasifairvalue.Thequasifairvalueadjustmentofthe

hedgeditemisthenamortizedasanadjustmenttothenetinterest

incomeonthehedgeditemoveritsremainingtermtomaturity.Ifthe

hedgeditemissoldorsettled,anyremainingquasifairvalue

adjustmentisincludedinthedeterminationofthegainorlossonsale

orsettlement.Wedidnothedgeanycommitmentsduringtheyears

endedOctober31,2014and2013.
NetInvestmentHedges
Netinvestmenthedgesmitigateourexposuretoforeigncurrency

exchangeratefluctuationsrelatedtoournetinvestmentinforeign

operations.Depositliabilitiesdenominatedinforeigncurrenciesare

designatedashedgesofthisexposure.Theforeigncurrencytranslation

ofournetinvestmentinforeignoperationsandthecorresponding

hedginginstrumentisrecordedinnetgain(loss)ontranslationofnet

foreignoperationsinothercomprehensiveincome.Totheextentthat

thehedginginstrumentisnoteffective,amountsareincludedinthe

ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeinforeignexchange,otherthan

trading.Therewasnohedgeineffectivenessassociatedwithnet

investmenthedgesfortheyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013.We

useforeigncurrencydepositswithatermtomaturityofzerotothree

monthsashedginginstrumentsinnetinvestmenthedges,andthefair

valueofsuchdepositswas$2,365millionasatOctober31,2014

($7,547millionin2013).
FairValueHedgingRelationships
Thefollowingtablepresentstheimpactoffairvaluehedgesonourfinancialresults.
(Canadian$inmillions)
Pre-taxgains/(losses)recordedinincome
Contracttype
Amountofgain/(loss)on
hedgingderivatives(1)
Quasifairvalue
adjustment(2)
Hedgeineffectivenessrecorded
innon-interestrevenue–other
Interestratecontracts–
201446(39)7
2013(371)360(11)

201242(44)(2)
(1)Unrealizedgains(losses)onhedgingderivativesarerecordedinOtherAssets–Derivative
instrumentsorOtherLiabilities–DerivativeinstrumentsintheConsolidatedBalanceSheet.
(2)Unrealizedgains(losses)onhedgeditemsarerecordedinSecurities–Availableforsale,
SubordinatedDebtandDeposits.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
147NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
CashFlowHedgingRelationships
Thefollowingtablepresentstheimpactofcashflowhedgesonourfinancialresults.
(Canadian$inmillions)
Pre-taxgains/(losses)recordedinincome
Contracttype
Fairvaluechangerecordedin
othercomprehensiveincome
Fairvaluechangerecordedin
non-interestrevenue–other
Reclassificationofgains
ondesignatedhedges
fromothercomprehensive
incometonetinterestincome
Amortizationof
spot/forwarddifferentialon
foreignexchangecontracts
tointerestexpense
2014Interestrate
2243130–
Foreignexchange
102––(4)
Total3263130(4)
2013
Interestrate(86)–195–

Foreignexchange49––(25)
Total(37)–195(25)

2012Interestrate(45)3177–

Foreignexchange(27)––(32)
Total(72)3177(32)
EmbeddedDerivatives
Fromtimetotime,wepurchaseorissuefinancialinstruments
containingembeddedderivatives.Theembeddedderivativeisseparated

fromthehostcontractandcarriedatfairvalueiftheeconomic

characteristicsofthederivativearenotcloselyrelatedtothoseofthe

hostcontract,thetermsoftheembeddedderivativearethesameas

thoseofastand-alonederivative,andthecombinedcontractisnotheld

fortradingordesignatedatfairvalue.Totheextentthatwecannot

reliablyidentifyandmeasuretheembeddedderivative,theentire

contractiscarriedatfairvalue,withchangesinfairvaluereflectedin

income.Embeddedderivativesincertainofourequitylinkednotesare

accountedforseparatelyfromthehostinstrument.
ContingentFeatures
Certainover-the-counterderivativeinstrumentscontainprovisionsthat

linktheamountofcollateralwearerequiredtopostorpayment

requirementstoourcreditratings(asdeterminedbythemajorcredit
ratingagencies).Ifourcreditratingsweretobedowngraded,certain

counterpartiestothesederivativeinstrumentscoulddemandimmediate

andongoingcollateralizationovernightonderivativeliabilitypositions

orrequestimmediatepayment.Theaggregatefairvalueofall

derivativeinstrumentswithcollateralpostingrequirementsthatwerein

aliabilitypositiononOctober31,2014was$6.0billion,forwhichwe

havepostedcollateralof$4.4billion.Ifourcreditratinghadbeen

downgradedtoAandA-onOctober31,2014(perStandard&Poor’s

RatingsServices),wewouldhavebeenrequiredtopostcollateralor

meetpaymentdemandsofanadditional$1.1billionand$1.4billion,

respectively.FairValue
Fairvaluerepresentspoint-in-timeestimatesthatmaychangein

subsequentreportingperiodsduetomarketconditionsorotherfactors.

Discussionofthefairvaluemeasurementofderivativesisincludedin

Note31.
148BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesFairvaluesofourderivativeinstrumentsareasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013GrossassetsGrossliabilitiesNet
GrossassetsGrossliabilitiesNet
TradingInterestRateContracts

Swaps17,020(15,986)1,034
21,251(20,327)924
Forwardrateagreements
4(6)(2)
5(5)–
Futures17(21)(4)
1(3)(2)
Purchasedoptions
697–697
595–595
Writtenoptions
–(616)(616)
–(672)(672)
ForeignExchangeContracts

Cross-currencyswaps
2,153(1,182)971
1,156(897)259
Cross-currencyinterestrateswaps
5,705(6,682)(977)
3,459(3,641)(182)
Forwardforeignexchangecontracts
3,874(2,856)1,018
1,552(1,549)3
Purchasedoptions
447–447
100–100
Writtenoptions
–(465)(465)
–(88)(88)
CommodityContracts

Swaps376(922)(546)
501(543)(42)
Purchasedoptions
307–307
238–238
Writtenoptions
–(412)(412)
–(290)(290)
EquityContracts
947(3,040)(2,093)
536(3,067)(2,531)
CreditDefaultSwaps

Purchased80–80
90–90
Written–(124)(124)
–(102)(102)
Totalfairvalue–tradingderivatives
31,627(32,312)(685)
29,484(31,184)(1,700)
Averagefairvalue
(1)30,304(31,092)(788)
38,016(39,565)(1,549)
Hedging
InterestRateContracts

Cashflowhedges–swaps
196(115)81
110(169)(59)
Fairvaluehedges–swaps
330(272)58
260(348)(88)
Totalswaps
526(387)139
370(517)(147)
ForeignExchangeContracts

Cashflowhedges–forwardforeignexchangecontracts
502(958)(456)
405(273)132
Totalforeignexchangecontracts
502(958)(456)
405(273)132
Totalfairvalue–hedgingderivatives
(2)1,028(1,345)(317)
775(790)(15)
Averagefairvalue
(1)916(1,089)(173)
1,100(674)426
Totalfairvalue–tradingandhedgingderivatives
32,655(33,657)(1,002)
30,259(31,974)(1,715)
Less:impactofmasternettingagreements
(28,885)28,885–
(27,493)27,493–
Total3,770(4,772)(1,002)
2,766(4,481)(1,715)
(1)Averagefairvalueamountsarecalculatedusingafive-quarterrollingaverage.
(2)Thefairvaluesofhedgingderivativeswhollyorpartiallyoffsetthechangesinfairvaluesof
therelatedon-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsorfuturecashflows.
Assetsareshownnetofliabilitiestocustomerswherewehavealegallyenforceablerighttooffset
amountsandweintendtosettlecontractsonanetbasis.
DerivativeinstrumentsrecordedinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetareasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
AssetsLiabilities
2014201320142013Fairvalueoftradingderivatives
31,62729,48432,31231,184Fairvalueofhedgingderivatives
1,0287751,345790Total32,65530,25933,65731,974BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
149NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
NotionalAmounts
Thenotionalamountsofourderivativesrepresenttheamounttowhicharateorpriceisappliedinordertocalculatetheamountofcashthatmustbe
exchangedunderthecontract.NotionalamountsdonotrepresentassetsorliabilitiesandthereforearenotrecordedinourConsolidatedBalance

Sheet.(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013HedgingHedgingTradingCashflowFairvalueTotal
TradingCashflowFairvalueTotal
InterestRateContracts
Over-the-counterSwaps2,580,94045,75348,9842,675,677
2,139,70641,13843,9422,224,786
Forwardrateagreements
361,484––361,484
399,751––399,751
Purchasedoptions
19,267––19,267
18,283––18,283
Writtenoptions
22,955––22,955
23,020––23,020
2,984,64645,75348,9843,079,383
2,580,76041,13843,9422,665,840
Exchange-tradedFutures125,272––125,272
111,913––111,913
Purchasedoptions
21,680––21,680
16,534––16,534
Writtenoptions
21,342––21,342
15,429––15,429
168,294––168,294
143,876––143,876
Totalinterestratecontracts
3,152,94045,75348,9843,247,677
2,724,63641,13843,9422,809,716
ForeignExchangeContracts

Over-the-counterCross-currencyswaps
51,374242–51,616
44,607227–44,834
Cross-currencyinterestrateswaps
279,119––279,119
255,337––255,337
Forwardforeignexchangecontracts
283,19616,284–299,480
249,41214,195–263,607
Purchasedoptions
31,148––31,148
10,923––10,923
Writtenoptions
36,344––36,344
13,530––13,530
681,18116,526–697,707
573,80914,422–588,231
Exchange-tradedFutures813––813
621––621
Purchasedoptions
343––343
2,608––2,608
Writtenoptions
319––319
616––616
1,475––1,475
3,845––3,845
Totalforeignexchange
contracts682,65616,526–699,182
577,65414,422–592,076
CommodityContracts

Over-the-counterSwaps13,559––13,559
15,122––15,122
Purchasedoptions
8,526––8,526
8,081––8,081
Writtenoptions
4,166––4,166
4,285––4,285
26,251––26,251
27,488––27,488
Exchange-tradedFutures22,586––22,586
24,037––24,037
Purchasedoptions
6,733––6,733
8,044––8,044
Writtenoptions
8,499––8,499
9,894––9,894
37,818––37,818
41,975––41,975
Totalcommoditycontracts
64,069––64,069
69,463––69,463
EquityContracts

Over-the-counter48,702––48,702
39,360––39,360
Exchange-traded7,314––7,314
5,851––5,851
Totalequitycontracts
56,016––56,016
45,211––
45,211CreditDefaultSwaps

Over-the-counterpurchased
8,801––8,801
8,835––8,835
Over-the-counterwritten
11,983––11,983
13,288––13,288
Totalcreditdefaultswaps
20,784––20,784
22,123––22,123
Total3,976,46562,27948,9844,087,728
3,439,08755,56043,9423,538,589
Derivative-RelatedMarketRisk
Derivativeinstrumentsaresubjecttomarketrisk.Marketriskarises
fromthepotentialforanegativeimpactonthebalancesheetand/or

incomestatementresultingfromadversechangesinthevalueof

derivativeinstrumentsasaresultofchangesincertainmarketvariables.
Thesevariablesincludeinterestrates,foreignexchangerates,equity

andcommoditypricesandtheirimpliedvolatilities,aswellascredit

spreads,creditmigrationanddefault.Westrivetolimitmarketriskby

employingcomprehensivegovernanceandmanagementprocessesfor

allmarketrisk-takingactivities.
150BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesDerivative-RelatedCreditRisk
Over-the-counterderivativeinstrumentsaresubjecttocreditriskarising
fromthepossibilitythatcounterpartiesmaydefaultontheirobligations.

Thecreditriskassociatedwithderivativesisnormallyasmallfractionof

thenotionalamountofthederivativeinstrument.Derivativecontracts

generallyexposeustopotentialcreditlossifchangesinmarketrates

affectacounterparty’spositionunfavourablyandthecounterparty

defaultsonpayment.Thecreditriskisrepresentedbythepositivefair

valueofthederivativeinstrument.Westrivetolimitcreditriskby

dealingwithcounterpartiesthatwebelievearecreditworthy,andwe

manageourcreditriskforderivativesusingthesamecreditriskprocess

thatisappliedtoloansandothercreditassets.
Wealsopursueopportunitiestoreduceourexposuretocredit
lossesonderivativeinstruments,includingthroughcollateralandby

enteringintomasternettingagreementswithcounterparties.Thecredit

riskassociatedwithfavourablecontractsiseliminatedbymasternetting

agreementstotheextentthatunfavourablecontractswiththesame

counterpartycannotbesettledbeforefavourablecontracts.
Exchange-tradedderivativeshavelimitedpotentialforcredit
exposureastheyaresettlednetdailywitheachexchange.
Termsusedinthecreditrisktablebelowareasfollows:

Replacementcost
representsthecostofreplacingallcontractsthat
haveapositivefairvalue,usingcurrentmarketrates.Itrepresentsin
effecttheunrealizedgainsonourderivativeinstruments.Replacement

costsdisclosedbelowrepresentthenetoftheassetandliabilitytoa

specificcounterpartywherewehavealegallyenforceablerighttooffset

theamountowedtouswiththeamountowedbyusandweintend

eithertosettleonanetbasisortorealizetheassetandsettlethe

liabilitysimultaneously.
Creditriskequivalent
representsthetotalreplacementcostplusan
amountrepresentingthepotentialfuturecreditexposure,asoutlinedin
OSFI’sCapitalAdequacyGuideline.
Risk-weightedassets
representthecreditriskequivalent,weighted
basedonthecreditworthinessofthecounterparty,asprescribedby
OSFI.(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013ReplacementcostCreditrisk
equivalentRisk-weightedassetsReplacementcostCreditrisk
equivalentRisk-weightedassetsInterestRateContracts
Swaps17,54621,371–
21,62126,813–
Forwardrateagreements
445–
540–
Purchasedoptions
691705–
589657–
Totalinterestratecontracts
18,24122,1211,393
22,21527,5101,758
ForeignExchangeContracts

Cross-currencyswaps
2,1535,039–
1,1564,091–
Cross-currencyinterestrateswaps
5,70511,219–
3,45915,671–
Forwardforeignexchangecontracts
4,3766,477–
1,9573,854–
Purchasedoptions
415837–
90227–
Totalforeignexchangecontracts
12,64923,5721,656
6,66223,8432,448
CommodityContracts

Swaps3761,902–
5012,289–
Purchasedoptions
301,109–
661,045–
Totalcommoditycontracts
4063,011472
5673,334621
EquityContracts
8963,547208
5203,054113
CreditDefaultSwaps
8027142
90448310
Totalderivatives
32,27252,5223,771
30,05458,1895,250
Less:impactofmasternettingagreements
(28,885)(35,585)–
(27,493)(38,607)–
Total3,38716,9373,771
2,56119,5825,250
Thetotalderivativesandtheimpactofmasternettingagreementsforreplacementcostdonotincludeexchange-tradedderivativeswithafairvalueof$383millionasatOctober31,2014($205million
in2013).
Transactionsareconductedwithcounterpartiesinvariousgeographiclocationsandindustrysectors.Setoutbelowisthereplacementcostof
contractsbeforeandaftertheimpactofmasternettingagreementswithcustomerslocatedinthefollowingcountries,basedoncountryofultimate

risk.(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
Beforemasternettingagreements
Aftermasternettingagreements
2014201320142013Canada14,39545
12,42541
1,76952
1,38954
UnitedStates
7,57923
7,19324
87526
72828
UnitedKingdom
3,62311
4,76116
2327
1486
Othercountries
(1)6,67521
5,67519
51115
29612
Total32,272100%
30,054100%
3,387100%
2,561100%
(1)Noothercountryrepresented15%ormoreofourreplacementcostin2014or2013.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
151NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Transactionsareconductedwithvariouscounterparties.Setoutbelowisthereplacementcostofcontracts(beforetheimpactofmasternetting
agreements)withcustomersinthefollowingindustries:
AsatOctober31,2014(Canadian$inmillions)
InterestratecontractsForeignexchangecontractsCommoditycontractsEquitycontractsCreditdefaultswapsTotal
Financialinstitutions
13,9978,9031576606623,783
Governments2,2622,33011––4,603
Naturalresources
332737––97
Energy17125536––462
Other1,7781,134165236143,327
Total18,24112,6494068968032,272
AsatOctober31,2013(Canadian$inmillions)InterestratecontractsForeignexchangecontractsCommoditycontractsEquitycontractsCreditdefaultswapsTotal
Financialinstitutions
18,2124,0452012935822,809
Governments2,0941,63320––3,747
Naturalresources
443884––166
Energy1268585––296
Other1,739861177227323,036
Total22,2156,6625675209030,054
CreditDerivatives
Creditderivatives–protectionsoldbyratings/maturityprofile:
Maximumpayout/Notional
Fairvalue
AsatOctober31,2014(Canadian$inmillions)
Within1year1to5yearsOver5years
TotalLiabilityCreditdefaultswaps
Investmentgrade
(1)4809,445–9,92541Non-investmentgrade
(1)1004723460618Non-rated–1,1483041,45265Total(2)58011,065
33811,983
124Maximumpayout/Notional
Fairvalue
AsatOctober31,2013(Canadian$inmillions)
Within1year
1to5yearsOver5years
TotalLiabilityCreditdefaultswaps
Investmentgrade
(1)2,7149,751–12,46580Non-investmentgrade
(1)267163–43016Non-rated72411453936Total(2)2,98810,15514513,288102(1)CreditratingsofAAA,AA,AandBBBrepresentinvestmentgraderatingsandratingsofBBor
lowerrepresentnon-investmentgraderatings.Thesecreditratingslargelyreflectthose

assignedbyexternalratingagenciesandrepresentthepaymentorperformanceriskofthe

underlyingsecurityorreferencedasset.
(2)AsatOctober31,2014,thenotionalvalueandnetcarryingvalueofcreditprotectionsoldin
whichweheldpurchasedprotectionwithidenticalunderlyingassetswas$4.5billionand

$47million($4.3billionand$41millionin2013).
TermtoMaturity
Ourderivativecontractshavevaryingmaturitydates.Theremainingcontractualtermstomaturityforthenotionalamountsofourderivativecontracts

aresetoutbelow:
(Canadian$inmillions)
Termtomaturity2014
2013Within1
year1to3
years3to5
years5to10
yearsOver10
yearsTotalnotionalamountsTotalnotionalamountsInterestRateContracts
Swaps936,985723,847675,787287,45851,6002,675,677
2,224,786Forwardrateagreements,futuresandoptions
457,542105,4824,5944,113269572,000
584,930Totalinterestratecontracts
1,394,527829,329680,381291,57151,8693,247,677
2,809,716ForeignExchangeContracts

Cross-currencyswaps
11,57620,2759,1576,7293,87951,616
44,834Cross-currencyinterestrateswaps
64,20890,72760,19751,83412,153279,119
255,337Forwardforeignexchangecontracts,futuresandoptions
361,2856,2987955514368,447
291,905Totalforeignexchangecontracts
437,069117,30070,14958,61816,046699,182
592,076CommodityContracts

Swaps8,7254,203383247113,559
15,122Futuresandoptions
22,10926,2581,9321941750,510
54,341Totalcommoditycontracts
30,83430,4612,3154411864,069
69,463EquityContracts
47,1166,1341,57971,18056,016
45,211CreditContracts
1,55313,2673,9221,89514720,784
22,123Totalnotionalamount
1,911,099996,491758,346352,53269,2604,087,728
3,538,589152BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesNote11:PremisesandEquipment
Werecordallpremisesandequipmentatcostlessaccumulated
amortization,exceptland,whichisrecordedatcost.Buildings,computer

equipmentandoperatingsystemsoftware,otherequipmentand

leaseholdimprovementsareamortizedonastraight-linebasisover

theirestimatedusefullives.Themaximumestimatedusefulliveswe

usetoamortizeourassetsareasfollows:
Buildings10to40years
Computerequipmentandoperatingsystemsoftware
15years
Otherequipment
10years
Leaseholdimprovements
Leasetermtoa
maximumof10years
Gainsandlossesondisposalareincludedinnon-interestexpense,
premisesandequipmentinourConsolidatedStatementofIncome.
Amortizationmethods,usefullivesandtheresidualvaluesof
premisesandequipmentarereviewedannuallyforanychangein

circumstancesandareadjustedifappropriate.Atleastannually,we

reviewwhetherthereareanyindicationsthatpremisesandequipment

needtobetestedforimpairment.Ifthereisanindicationthatanasset

maybeimpaired,wetestforimpairmentbycomparingtheasset’s

carryingvaluetoitsrecoverableamount.Therecoverableamountis

calculatedasthehigherofthevalueinuseandthefairvaluelesscosts

tosell.Valueinuseisthepresentvalueofthefuturecashflows

expectedtobederivedfromtheasset.Animpairmentchargeis
recordedwhentherecoverableamountislessthanthecarryingvalue.

Therewerenosignificantwrite-downsofpremisesandequipmentdue

toimpairmentduringtheyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013.
Whenmajorcomponentsofbuildingshavedifferentusefullives,
theyareaccountedforseparatelyandamortizedovereachcomponent’s

usefullife.
AmortizationexpensefortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013
and2012amountedto$365million,$348millionand$351million,

respectively.LeaseCommitments
Wehaveenteredintoanumberofnon-cancellableleasesforpremises

andequipment.Ourcomputerandsoftwareleasesaretypicallyfixedfor

onetermandourpremisesleaseshavevariousrenewaloptionsand

rights.OurtotalcontractualrentalcommitmentsasatOctober31,2014

were$1,857million.Thecommitmentsforeachofthenextfiveyears

andthereafterare$308millionfor2015,$281millionfor2016,

$247millionfor2017,$208millionfor2018,$175millionfor2019and

$638millionthereafter.Includedintheseamountsarethecommitments

relatedto834leasedbranchlocationsasatOctober31,2014.
Netrentexpenseforpremisesandequipmentreportedinour
ConsolidatedStatementofIncomefortheyearsendedOctober31,

2014,2013and2012was$431million,$434millionand$418million,

respectively.(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013LandBuildings
ComputerequipmentOtherequipmentLeaseholdimprovementsTotal
LandBuildings
ComputerequipmentOtherequipmentLeaseholdimprovementsTotal
CostBalanceatbeginningofyear
2971,6801,5317701,0455,323
2911,5541,3747649614,944
Additions(1)10618929106429
81182195080475
Disposals(1)(16)(44)(188)(22)
(7)(277)
(4)(34)(71)(63)(7)(179)
Additionsfromacquisitions
(2)––3249
––––––
Foreignexchangeandother
2060362634176
2429191183
Balanceatendofyear
3001,8021,5718051,1825,660
2971,6801,5317701,0455,323
AccumulatedDepreciationand
ImpairmentBalanceatbeginningofyear
–9001,1045086433,155
–8151,0074705582,850
Disposals(1)–(28)(175)(19)(5)(227)
–(5)(48)(23)(4)(80)
Amortization–3414960122365
–3313558122348
Foreignexchangeandother
–73305(17)91
–57103(33)37
Balanceatendofyear
–9791,1085547433,384
–9001,1045086433,155
Netcarryingvalue
3008234632514392,276
2977804272624022,168
(1)Includesfullydepreciatedassetswrittenoff.
(2)Premisesandequipmentarerecordedattheirfairvaluesatthedateofacquisition.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
Note12:Acquisitions
Thecostofanacquisitionismeasuredatthefairvalueofthe
considerationtransferred,includingcontingentconsideration.

Acquisition-relatedcostsarerecognizedasanexpenseintheperiodin

whichtheyareincurred.Theidentifiableassetsacquiredandliabilities

assumedandcontingentconsiderationaremeasuredattheirfairvalues

atthedateofacquisition.Goodwillismeasuredastheexcessofthe

aggregateoftheconsiderationtransferredoverthenetoftheamounts

ofidentifiableassetsacquiredandliabilitiesassumed.Theresultsof

operationsofacquiredbusinessesareincludedinourconsolidated

financialstatementsbeginningonthedateofacquisition.
F&CAssetManagementplc(“F&C”)
OnMay7,2014,wecompletedtheacquisitionofalltheissuedand

outstandingsharecapitalofF&CAssetManagementplc,aninvestment

managerbasedintheUnitedKingdom,forcashconsiderationof

£712million.
Theacquisitionwasaccountedforasabusinesscombination.The
resultsoftheacquiredbusinessareincludedinourWealthManagement

reportingsegment.
Aspartoftheacquisition,weacquiredintangibleassetscomprised
primarilyoffundmanagementcontractsandcustomerrelationships,

including$178millionofintangibleassetsthathaveanindefinitelife

and$313millionthatarebeingamortizedover2to10years,primarily

onastraight-linebasis.Thisacquisitionstrengthensourpositionasa

globallysignificantmoneymanager,enhancesourassetmanagement

platformcapabilitiesandprovidesopportunitiestoservicewealth

marketsintheUnitedKingdomandtherestofEurope.Goodwillof

$1,268millionrelatedtothisacquisitionwasrecordedandisnot

deductiblefortaxpurposes.
AspartoftheacquisitionofF&C,weacquiredasubsidiaryofF&C,
F&CREITLLP,thatis30%ownedbythreeotherpartners.Wehave
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
153NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
recordedtheownershipinterestsofthepartnersinF&CREITLLPasnon-
controllinginterestinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetbasedonthenon-

controllingpartners’proportionateshareofthenetassetsofF&CREIT

LLP.F&Ccontributedapproximately5%toWealthManagement’s
revenuesandexpensesfortheyear.Includedinnon-interestexpensein

ourConsolidatedStatementofIncomeareacquisitioncostsof$16

millionfortheyearendedOctober31,2014.
AverMediaLP(“Aver”)
OnApril1,2013,wecompletedtheacquisitionoftheassetsofAver

MediaLP,aprivateCanadian-basedfilmandTVmedialendingcompany,

forcashconsiderationof$260million,subjecttoapost-closing

adjustmentbasedonnetassets,pluscontingentconsiderationof

approximately$10milliontobepaidovereighteenmonthsafterthe

acquisitiondate.DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,wepaid

$9millionofthecontingentconsiderationplusaccruedinterest.

Acquisition-relatedcostsof$1millionwereexpensedinnon-interest

expense,otherinourConsolidatedStatementofIncomefortheyear

endedOctober31,2013.ThisacquisitionispredominantlyoftheAver

loanportfoliowhichprovidesuswithadditionalopportunitiestogrow

ourcommercialloanbusinessbyexpandingourpresenceinthefilmand
televisionproductionindustry.Goodwillrelatedtothisacquisitionis

deductiblefortaxpurposes.Aspartofthisacquisition,weacquireda

customerrelationshipintangibleassetwhichisbeingamortizedonan

acceleratedbasisover10years.AverispartofourCanadianP&C

reportingsegment.Theacquisitionwasaccountedforasabusiness

combination.AsianWealthManagementBusiness(“AWMB”)
OnJanuary25,2013,wecompletedtheacquisitionofanAsian-based

wealthmanagementbusinessforcashconsiderationof$33million.

DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2013,thepurchasepriceincreasedto

$34millionduetoapost-closingadjustmentbaseduponworking

capital.Acquisitioncostsof$4millionwereexpensedinnon-interest

expense,otherinourConsolidatedStatementofIncome.Thebusiness

providesprivatebankingservicestohighnetworthindividualsinthe

Asia-Pacificregionandprovidesanimportantopportunityforusto

expandourofferingtohighnetworthindividualsinthisregion.

Goodwillrelatedtothisacquisitionisdeductiblefortaxpurposes.As

partofthisacquisition,weacquiredacustomerrelationshipintangible

assetwhichisbeingamortizedonastraight-linebasisover15years,

andsoftwareintangibleassetswhicharebeingamortizedovertheir

remainingusefullives.AWMBispartofourWealthManagement

reportingsegment.
Theestimatedfairvaluesoftheassetsacquiredandtheliabilitiesassumedatthedateofacquisitionareasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013F&CAverAWMB
Cashresources
338–434
Loans–232310
Premisesandequipment
9–1Goodwill1,268
2017
Intangibleassets
4911617
Otherassets
293
32Totalassets
2,399
271781
Deposits––746
Otherliabilities
1,08311Totalliabilities
1,0831747
Non-controllinginterests
22––Purchaseprice
1,29427034
TheallocationofthepurchasepriceforF&Cissubjecttorefinementaswecompletethevaluationoftheassetsacquiredandliabilitiesassumed.
Note13:GoodwillandIntangibleAssets
GoodwillWhenwecompleteanacquisition,weallocatethepurchasepricepaid

totheassetsacquired,includingidentifiableintangibleassetsandthe

liabilitiesassumed.Anyexcessoftheconsiderationtransferredoverthe

fairvalueofthosenetassetsisconsideredtobegoodwill.Goodwillis

notamortizedandisinsteadtestedforimpairmentannually.
Fairvaluelesscoststosellwasthemeasurementweusedto
performtheimpairmenttestforgoodwillin2014and2013.We

determinedthefairvaluelesscoststosellforeachgroupofcash

generatingunits(“CGU”)bydiscountingcashflowprojections.Cash

flowswereprojectedforthefirst10yearsbasedonactualoperating

results,expectedfuturebusinessperformanceandpastexperience.

Beyondthefirst10years,cashflowswereassumedtogrowat

perpetualannualratesofupto3%,aratethatisconsistentwithlong-
termnominalGDPgrowth.Thediscountratesweappliedindetermining

therecoverableamountsrangedfrom6.9%to12.8%(7.8%to18.1%in

2013),andwerebasedonourestimateofthecostofcapitalforeach

CGU.ThecostofcapitalforeachCGUwasestimatedusingtheCapital

AssetPricingModel,basedonthehistoricalbetasofpubliclytradedpeer

companiesthatarecomparabletotheCGU.
Therewerenowrite-downsofgoodwillduetoimpairmentduring
theyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013.
Thekeyassumptionsdescribedabovemaychangeasmarketand
economicconditionschange.However,weestimatethatreasonably

possiblechangesintheseassumptionsarenotexpectedtocause

recoverableamountstodeclinebelowcarryingamounts.
154BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesAcontinuityofourgoodwillbygroupofCGUsfortheyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013isasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
Personaland
CommercialBankingWealthManagementBMOCapitalMarketsCorporateServicesTotal
CanadianP&CU.S.P&CTotal
TraditionalWealth
Management(7)InsuranceTotal
TechnologyandOperationsBalance–October31,2012
482,5942,642
8062808194–3,644
Acquisitionsduringtheyear
20–
2017–17––37
Other(1)1108109
24–245–138
Balance–October31,2013
692,7022,771
847(4)2849199–3,819
Acquisitionsduringtheyear
–––1,268–1,268––1,268
Other(1)(1)220219
35–3512–266
Balance–October31,2014
68(2)2,922(3)2,9902,150(4)2(5)2,152211
(6)–5,353
(1)Otherchangesingoodwillincludedtheeffectsoftranslatinggoodwilldenominatedin
foreigncurrenciesintoCanadiandollarsandpurchaseaccountingadjustmentsrelatedto
prior-yearpurchases.
(2)RelatesprimarilytobcpbankCanada,DinersClubandAverMediaLP.OnNovember1,2013,
weadoptedIFRS11.Goodwillof$73millionrelatedtoourjointventureisnowincludedin

theequityinvestmentbalanceinotherequitysecurities.
(3)RelatesprimarilytoNewLenoxStateBank,FirstNationalBankofJoliet,HouseholdBank
branches,MercantileBancorp,Inc.,VillaParkTrustSavingsBank,FirstNationalBank&Trust,

OzaukeeBank,MerchantsandManufacturersBancorporation,Inc.,AMCOREandM&I.
(4)RelatestoBMONesbittBurnsInc.,GuardianGroupofFundsLtd.,PyrfordInternationalplc,
IntegraGRS,LloydGeorgeManagement,M&I,HarrismyCFO,Inc.,StokerOstlerWealth

Advisors,Inc.,CTCConsultingLLC,AWMBandF&CAssetManagementplc.
(5)RelatestoAIG.

(6)RelatestoGerardKlauerMattison&Co.,Inc.,BMONesbittBurnsInc.,Griffin,Kubik,
Stephens&Thompson,Inc.,PalomaSecuritiesL.L.C.andM&I.
(7)Duringthecurrentyear,thegroupingofcashgeneratingunitsdisclosedwithinourWealth
Managementoperatinggroupwasalignedwithhowwemanageourbusiness.Priorperiods

havebeenrestatedtoreflectthischange.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
IntangibleAssets
Intangibleassetsrelatedtoouracquisitionsarerecordedattheirfairvalueattheacquisitiondate.Softwareisrecordedatcostlessaccumulated

amortization.Thefollowingtablepresentsthechangeinthebalanceoftheintangibleassets:
(Canadian$inmillions)
CustomerrelationshipsCoredepositsBranchdistributionnetworksPurchasedsoftware–
amortizingDevelopedsoftware–
amortizingSoftwareunderdevelopmentOtherTotal
CostasatOctober31,2012
3487231505381,485156293,429
Additions/disposals/other10–(3)210485–198
Acquisitions23––––
––23
Foreignexchange
8317417
2–69
CostasatOctober31,2013
3897541545441,606243293,719
Additions/disposals/other–––2428669–379
Acquisitions171–––17
–303491
Foreignexchange
666113(28)24
4(1)139
CostasatOctober31,2014
6268151675401,9333163314,728
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
Thefollowingtablepresentstheaccumulatedamortizationoftheintangibleassets:
(Canadian$inmillions)
CustomerrelationshipsCoredepositsBranchdistributionnetworksPurchasedsoftware–
amortizingDevelopedsoftware–
amortizingSoftwareunderdevelopmentOtherTotal
AccumulatedamortizationatOctober31,2012
77305148484849
–281,891
Disposals/other1–(5)(27)(40)
–(2)(73)
Amortization4276329194
–2346
Foreignexchange
4166315
––44
AccumulatedamortizationatOctober31,2013
1243971524891,018
–282,208
Disposals/other––––––––
Amortization6169220221
–9382
Foreignexchange
444012(29)11
–886
AccumulatedamortizationatOctober31,2014
2295061664801,250
–452,676
CarryingvalueatOctober31,2014
3973091606833162862,052
CarryingvalueatOctober31,2013
26535725558824311,511
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
Intangibleassetsareamortizedtoincomeovertheperiodduring
whichwebelievetheassetswillbenefitusoneitherastraight-lineor

anacceleratedbasis,overaperiodnottoexceed15years.Wehave

$178millioninintangibleassetswithindefinitelivesthatwereacquired

aspartoftheF&Cacquisition.
Theusefullivesofintangibleassetsarereviewedannuallyforany
changesincircumstances.Wetestfinitelifeintangibleassetsfor

impairmentwheneventsorchangesincircumstancesindicatethattheir
carryingvaluemaynotberecoverable.Indefinitelifeintangibleassets

aretestedannuallyforimpairment.Ifanyintangibleassetsare

determinedtobeimpaired,wewritethemdowntotheirrecoverable

amount,thehigherofvalueinuseandfairvaluelesscoststosell,when

thisislessthanthecarryingvalue.
Therewerewrite-downsofintangibleassetsof$1millioninthe
yearendedOctober31,2014($nilin2013).
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
155NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Note14:OtherAssets
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Accountsreceivable,prepaidexpensesandother
items6,1045,681Accruedinterestreceivable
879753Duefromclients,dealersandbrokers
542503Insurance-relatedassets
(1)445566Pensionasset
(Note24)
261192Total8,2317,695(1)Includesreinsuranceassetsrelatedtoourlifeinsurancebusinessintheamountof
$215millionasatOctober31,2014($383millionin2013).
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’s
presentationandforchangesinaccountingpolicies–seeNote1.
Note15:Deposits
Payableondemand
PayablePayableon
(Canadian$inmillions)InterestbearingNon-interestbearingafternoticeafixeddateTotal
2014201320142013201420132014201320142013Depositsby:
Banks9976799939282,4124,07613,84114,90818,24320,591Businessesandgovernments
14,95813,94728,00123,53557,16554,178139,015130,686239,139222,346Individuals2,5242,57912,90011,44875,52969,85344,75341,552135,706125,432Total(1)(2)
18,47917,20541,89435,911135,106128,107197,609187,146393,088368,369Bookedin:
Canada16,75315,44028,83225,60177,23276,414111,193109,574234,010227,029UnitedStates
1,1911,15312,97210,21157,31451,26266,66459,800138,141122,426Othercountries
535
612909956043119,75217,77220,93718,914Total18,479
17,20541,894
35,911135,106128,107197,609187,146393,088368,369(1)Includesstructurednotesdesignatedatfairvaluethroughprofitorloss.

(2)AsatOctober31,2014and2013,totaldepositspayableonafixeddateincluded
$18,183millionand$19,496million,respectively,offederalfundspurchased,commercial

paperissuedandotherdepositliabilities.IncludedindepositsasatOctober31,2014and
2013are$191,155millionand$176,235million,respectively,ofdepositsdenominatedin

U.S.dollars,and$8,204millionand$4,822million,respectively,ofdepositsdenominatedin

otherforeigncurrencies.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
DepositsDepositspayableondemandarecomprisedprimarilyofourcustomers’

chequingaccounts,someofwhichwepayintereston.Ourcustomers

neednotnotifyuspriortowithdrawingmoneyfromtheirchequing

accounts.Depositspayableafternoticearecomprisedprimarilyofour
customers’savingsaccounts,onwhichwepayinterest.
Depositspayableonafixeddatearecomprisedof:
‰Variousinvestmentinstrumentspurchasedbyourcustomerstoearn

interestoverafixedperiod,suchastermdepositsandguaranteed

investmentcertificates.Thetermsofthesedepositscanvaryfromone

dayto10years.
‰Federalfundspurchased,whichareovernightborrowingsofother

banks’excessreservefundsataUnitedStatesFederalReserveBank.

AsatOctober31,2014,wehadborrowed$651millionoffederal

funds($181millionin2013).
‰Commercialpaper,whichtotalled$4,294millionasatOctober31,

2014($4,753millionin2013).
‰Coveredbonds,whichtotalled$7,683millionasatOctober31,2014

($7,964millionin2013).
OnMay7,2014weissued€1.0billionof1.0%CoveredBondsunderour

GlobalRegisteredCoveredBondProgram.Theissue,SeriesCBL1,isdue

May7,2019.DuringtheyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013,

CoveredBondSeries4,US$2.0billion1.3%andCoveredBondSeries1

€1.0billion4.25%matured,respectively.
Thefollowingtablepresentsthematurityscheduleforourdeposits
payableonafixeddate:
Payableonafixeddate
(1)(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Within1year
124,782114,0791to2years
22,73321,2112to3years
23,49121,4713to4years
8,37911,4684to5years
8,4989,179Over5years
9,7269,738Total197,609187,146(1)Includes$174,612millionofdeposits,eachgreaterthanonehundredthousanddollars,
ofwhich$92,668millionwerebookedinCanada,$62,193millionwerebookedinthe

UnitedStatesand$19,751millionwerebookedinothercountries($161,942million,

$89,378million,$54,791millionand$17,773million,respectively,in2013).Ofthe

$92,668millionofdepositsbookedinCanada,$27,304millionmatureinlessthanthree

months,$7,465millionmatureinthreetosixmonths,$11,565millionmatureinsixto

12monthsand$46,334millionmatureafter12months($89,378million,$31,304million,

$4,079million,$6,861millionand$47,134million,respectively,in2013).Wehave

unencumberedliquidassetsof$170,981milliontosupporttheseandotherdepositliabilities

($160,635millionin2013).
156BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesThefollowingtablepresentstheaveragedepositbalancesandaverageratesofinterestpaidduring2014and2013:
Averagebalances
Averageratepaid(%)
(Canadian$inmillions)
2014201320142013DepositsBookedinCanada
Demanddeposits–interestbearing
16,46916,0500.450.47Demanddeposits–non-interestbearing
26,70224,400––Payableafternotice
76,90371,8200.700.67Payableonafixeddate
118,094
100,1181.441.63TotaldepositsbookedinCanada
238,168
212,3880.971.03DepositsBookedintheUnitedStatesandOtherCountries

BankslocatedintheUnitedStatesandothercountries
8,1959,3080.280.35GovernmentsandinstitutionsintheUnitedStatesandothercountries
12,0959,2830.360.42Otherdemanddeposits
12,7449,3050.020.03Otherdepositspayableafternoticeoronafixeddate
127,389117,4460.380.39TotaldepositsbookedintheUnitedStatesandothercountries
160,423145,3420.350.36Totalaveragedeposits
398,591
357,7300.720.76AsatOctober31,2014and2013,depositsbyforeigndepositorsinourCanadianbankofficesamountedto$30,622millionand$19,248million,respectively.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
Aportionofourstructurednoteliabilitieshavebeendesignatedatfair

valuethroughprofitorlossandareaccountedforatfairvalue,which

betteralignstheaccountingresultwiththewaytheportfoliois

managed.Thechangeinfairvalueofthesestructurednoteswas

recordedasadecreaseinnon-interestrevenue,tradingrevenuesof

$6millionfortheyearendedOctober31,2014(increaseof$5millionin

2013).Thisincludesadecreaseof$41millionattributabletochangesin

ourcreditspread(decreaseof$53millionin2013).Weholdderivatives

andotherfinancialinstrumentcontractstopartiallyhedgechangesin

thefairvalueofthesestructurednotes.
Thechangeinfairvaluerelatedtochangesinourcreditspreadthat
hasbeenrecognizedsincethenotesweredesignatedatfairvalue

throughprofitorlosstoOctober31,2014wasanunrealizedlossof

approximately$76million.Wemayenterintopositionstomanagethe

exposuretochangesinourcreditspread.
Thefairvalueandnotionalamountdueatcontractualmaturityof
thesenotesasatOctober31,2014were$7,639millionand

$7,733million,respectively($5,928millionand$6,028million,

respectively,in2013).
Note16:OtherLiabilities
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Acceptances10,8788,472Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchased
27,34822,446Securitieslentorsoldunderrepurchaseagreements
39,69528,88477,92159,802AcceptancesAcceptancesrepresentaformofnegotiableshort-termdebtthatis

issuedbyourcustomersandwhichweguaranteeforafee.Wehavean

offsettingclaim,equaltotheamountoftheacceptances,againstour

customers.Theamountdueunderacceptancesisrecordedasaliability

andourcorrespondingclaimisrecordedasaloaninourConsolidated

BalanceSheet.
SecuritiesLendingandBorrowing
Securitieslendingandborrowingtransactionsaregenerally

collateralizedbysecuritiesorcash.Cashadvancedorreceivedas

collateralisrecordedinotherassetsorotherliabilities,respectively.The

transferofthesecuritiestocounterpartiesisonlyreflectedinour

ConsolidatedBalanceSheetiftherisksandrewardsofownershiphave

alsobeentransferred.Securitiesborrowedarenotrecognizedinour

ConsolidatedBalanceSheetunlesstheyarethensoldtothirdparties,in

whichcasetheobligationtoreturnthesecuritiesisrecordedin

Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchased.
SecuritiesSoldbutnotyetPurchased
Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchasedrepresentourobligationstodeliver

securitiesthatwedidnotownatthetimeofsale.Theseobligationsare

recordedattheirmarketvalue.Adjustmentstothemarketvalueasat

thebalancesheetdateandgainsandlossesonthesettlementofthese

obligationsarerecordedintradingrevenuesinourConsolidated

StatementofIncome.
SecuritiesLentorSoldUnderRepurchaseAgreements
Securitieslentorsoldunderrepurchaseagreementsrepresentshort-

termfundingtransactionsinwhichwesellsecuritiesthatweownand

simultaneouslycommittorepurchasethesamesecuritiesataspecified

priceonaspecifieddateinthefuture.Theobligationtorepurchase

thesesecuritiesisrecordedattheamountowing.Theinterestexpense

relatedtotheseliabilitiesisrecordedonanaccrualbasis.
OtherLiabilities
Thecomponentsoftheotherliabilitiesbalancewereasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013SecuritizationandSEliabilities
22,46522,361Accountspayable,accruedexpensesandother
items7,7137,587Accruedinterestpayable
1,050877Liabilitiesofsubsidiaries,otherthandeposits
3,7753,054Insurance-relatedliabilities
6,8276,115Pensionliability
(Note24)
229106Otheremployeefuturebenefitsliability
(Note24)
1,2041,079Total43,26341,179Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccounting

principles–seeNote1.
Liabilitiesrelatedtothenotesissuedbyourcreditprotectionvehicle

havebeendesignatedatfairvaluethroughprofitorlossandare

accountedforatfairvalue.Thiseliminatesameasurementinconsistency

thatwouldotherwisearisefrommeasuringthesenoteliabilitiesand

offsettingchangesinthefairvalueoftherelatedinvestmentsand

derivativesonadifferentbasis.Thefairvalueofthesenoteliabilitiesas

atOctober31,2014of$139million($505millionin2013)isrecordedin

otherliabilitiesinourConsolidatedBalanceSheet.Thechangeinfair

valueofthesenoteliabilitiesresultedinanincreaseof$0.4millionin

non-interestrevenue,tradingrevenuesfortheyearendedOctober31,

2014(decreaseof$24millionin2013).
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
157NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Wedesignatetheobligationsrelatedtocertainannuitycontractsat
fairvaluethroughprofitorloss,whicheliminatesameasurement
inconsistencythatwouldotherwisearisefrommeasuringtheannuity

liabilitiesandoffsettingchangesinthefairvalueoftheinvestments

supportingthemonadifferentbasis.Thefairvalueoftheseannuity

liabilitiesasatOctober31,2014of$407million($329millionin2013)

isrecordedinotherliabilitiesinourConsolidatedBalanceSheet.The

changeinfairvalueoftheseannuityliabilitiesresultedinadecreaseof

$37millioninnon-interestrevenue,insuranceincomefortheyear

endedOctober31,2014(increaseof$7millionin2013).Changesinthe

fairvalueofinvestmentssupportingtheseannuityliabilitiesarealso

recordedinnon-interestrevenue,insuranceincome.
Insurance-RelatedLiabilities
Weareengagedininsurancebusinessesrelatedtolifeandhealth

insurance,annuitiesandreinsurance.
Insuranceclaimsandpolicybenefitliabilitiesrepresentcurrent
claimsandestimatesoffutureinsurancepolicybenefits.Liabilitiesfor

lifeinsurancecontractsaredeterminedusingtheCanadianAsset

LiabilityMethod,whichincorporatesbest-estimateassumptionsfor

mortality,morbidity,policylapses,surrenders,investmentyields,policy

dividends,administrationcostsandmarginsforadversedeviation.These

assumptionsarereviewedatleastannuallyandupdatedtoreflectactual

experienceandmarketconditions.TheActuarialStandardsBoard

(“ASB”)madechangestotheCanadianactuarialstandardsofpractice

withrespecttoeconomicreinvestmentassumptionsusedinthe

valuationofinsurancecontractliabilities.Thechanges,whichtookeffect

onOctober15,2014,resultedinanultimatereinvestmentrateof3.3%,

introducedcreditspreadsbasedonunderlyinginvestmentmixand

providedlimitsonthebenefitofnon-fixedincomeinvestments.The

impactresultedinadecreaseinourinsurance-relatedliabilitieswith

littletonoincreaseinourreportedsensitivitytochangesininterest

rates.InsuranceclaimsandpolicybenefitliabilitiesareincludedinOther

liabilities–Insurance-relatedliabilities.
Areconciliationofthechangeininsurance-relatedliabilitiesisas

follows:(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Insurance-relatedliabilities,beginningofyear
6,1156,040Increase(decrease)inlifeinsurancepolicybenefit
liabilitiesfrom:
Newbusiness
476324In-forcepolicies
346(55)Changesinactuarialassumptionsand
methodology(291)
(201)Foreigncurrency
21Netincreaseinlifeinsurancepolicybenefitliabilities
53369Changeinotherinsurance-relatedliabilities
1796Insurance-relatedliabilities,endofyear
6,8276,115ReinsuranceIntheordinarycourseofbusiness,ourinsurancesubsidiariesreinsure
riskstootherinsuranceandreinsurancecompaniesinordertoprovide

greaterdiversification,limitlossexposuretolargerisksandprovide

additionalcapacityforfuturegrowth.Thesecedingreinsurance

arrangementsdonotrelieveourinsurancesubsidiariesfromtheirdirect

obligationtotheinsureds.Weevaluatethefinancialconditionofthe

reinsurersandmonitortheircreditratingstominimizeourexposureto

lossesfromreinsurerinsolvency.
Reinsuranceassetsrelatedtoourlifeinsurancebusinessare
includedinotherassets,insurance-relatedassets.Reinsuranceamounts

includedinnon-interestrevenue,insuranceincomeinourConsolidated

StatementofIncomefortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and

2012areshowninthetablebelow.
(Canadian$inmillions)
201420132012
Directpremiumincome
1,8501,5671,357
Cededpremiums
(450)(434)(410)
1,4001,133947
Note17:SubordinatedDebt
Subordinateddebtrepresentsourdirectunsecuredobligations,inthe

formofnotesanddebentures,toourdebtholdersandformspartofour

BaselIIIregulatorycapital.Subordinateddebtisrecordedatamortized

costusingtheeffectiveinterestratemethod.Therightsoftheholdersof

ournotesanddebenturesaresubordinatetotheclaimsofdepositors

andcertainothercreditors.WerequireapprovalfromOSFIbeforewe

canredeemanypartofoursubordinateddebt.Whereappropriate,we

enterintofairvaluehedgestohedgetheriskscausedbychangesin

interestrates(seeNote10).
OnSeptember19,2014,weissued$1.0billionof3.12%
subordinateddebtunderourCanadianMedium-TermNoteProgram.The

issue,SeriesHMedium-TermNotes,Tranche1,isdueSeptember19,
2024.ThenotesresettoafloatingrateonSeptember19,2019.The

notesincludeanon-viabilitycontingentcapitalprovision,whichis

necessaryforthenotestoqualifyasregulatorycapitalunderBaselIII.As

such,thenotesareconvertibleintoavariablenumberofourcommon

sharesifOSFIpubliclyannouncesthatthebankisorisabouttobecome

non-viableorafederalorprovincialgovernmentinCanadapublicly

announcesthatthebankhasacceptedoragreedtoacceptacapital

injectiontoavoidnon-viability.
DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2013,wedidnotissueany
subordinateddebt.DuringtheyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013,

wedidnotredeemanyofoursubordinateddebt.
158BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesThetermtomaturityandrepaymentsofoursubordinateddebtrequiredoverthenexttwoyearsandthereafterareasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
FacevalueMaturitydate
Interestrate(%)
Redeemableatour
optionbeginningin
2014Total(8)2013TotalDebenturesSeries16
100February2017
10.00February2012
(1)100100DebenturesSeries20150December2025to20408.25Notredeemable
150150SeriesCMedium-TermNotes
Tranche2500April20204.87April2015
(2)500500SeriesDMedium-TermNotes
Tranche1700April20215.10April2016
(3)700700SeriesFMedium-TermNotes
Tranche1900March20236.17March2018
(4)900900SeriesGMedium-TermNotes
Tranche11,500July20213.98July2016
(5)1,5001,500SeriesHMedium-TermNotes
Tranche11,000September20243.12September2019
(6)1,000–Total(7)4,8503,850(1)RedeemableatthegreaterofparandtheCanadaYieldPriceaftertheirredemptiondateof
February20,2012untiltheirmaturitydateofFebruary20,2017.
(2)RedeemableatthegreaterofparandtheCanadaYieldPricepriortoApril22,2015,and
redeemableatparcommencingApril22,2015.
(3)RedeemableatthegreaterofparandtheCanadaYieldPricepriortoApril21,2016,and
redeemableatparcommencingApril21,2016.
(4)RedeemableatthegreaterofparandtheCanadaYieldPricepriortoMarch28,2018,and
redeemableatparcommencingMarch28,2018.
(5)Interestonthisissueispayablesemi-annuallyatafixedrateof3.979%untilJuly8,2016,
andatafloatingrateequaltothethree-monthCanadianDealerOfferedRate(“CDOR”)plus

1.09%,paidquarterly,thereaftertomaturity.Thisissueisredeemableatparcommencing

July8,2016.
(6)Interestonthisissueispayablesemi-annuallyatafixedrateof3.12%untilSeptember19,
2019,andatafloatingrateequaltothethree-monthCDORplus1.08%,paidquarterly,
thereaftertomaturity.ThisissueisredeemableatparcommencingSeptember19,2019.
(7)Certainsubordinateddebtamountsincludefairvaluehedgeadjustmentsthatincreasedtheir
carryingvalueasatOctober31,2014by$63million($146millionin2013);seeNote10for
furtherdetails.Subordinateddebtthatwerepurchaseisexcludedfromthecarryingvalue.
(8)Allofoursubordinateddebthasaremainingtermtomaturityoftwoyearsormore.
Pleaserefertotheofferingcircularrelatedtoeachoftheaboveissuesforfurtherdetailson
CanadaYieldPricecalculationsandthedefinitionofCDOR.
Note18:CapitalTrustSecurities
WeissueBMOCapitalTrustSecurities(“BMOBOaTS”)throughour

subsidiaryBMOCapitalTrust(the“Trust”).TheproceedsofBMOBOaTS

areusedforgeneralcorporatepurposes.WeconsolidatetheTrust,and

theBMOBOaTSarereportedinourConsolidatedBalanceSheetas

non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries.Duringtheyearsended

October31,2014and2013wedidnotissueanyBMOBOaTS.
HoldersoftheBMOBOaTSareentitledtoreceivesemi-annualnon-
cumulativefixedcashdistributionsaslongaswedeclaredividendson

ourpreferredsharesor,ifnopreferredsharesareoutstanding,onour

commonsharesinaccordancewithourordinarydividendpractice.
DistributionperBOaTS(1)
RedemptiondatePrincipalamount
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptDistribution)DistributiondatesAttheoptionoftheTrust
20142013BMOBOaTS
SeriesDJune30,December3127.37
(2)December31,2009
600600SeriesEJune30,December3123.17
(3)December31,2010
4504501,0501,050(1)Distributionpaidoneachtrustsecuritythathasaparvalueof$1,000.
(2)AfterDecember31,2014,thedistributionwillbeattheBankers’AcceptanceRateplus1.5%.
(3)AfterDecember31,2015,thedistributionwillbeattheBankers’AcceptanceRateplus1.5%.
RedemptionbytheTrust
Onoraftertheredemptiondatesindicatedabove,andsubjecttothe

priorapprovalofOSFI,theTrustmayredeemthesecuritiesinwhole

withouttheconsentoftheholders.
OnNovember28,2014,weannouncedourintentiontoredeemall
ofourBMOBOaTSSeriesDonDecember31,2014.
DuringtheyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013,wedidnot
redeemanyofourBMOBOaTS.
ConversionbytheHolders
BMOBOaTSSeriesDandEcannotbeconvertedattheoptionofthe

holders.AutomaticExchange
TheBMOBOaTSSeriesDandEwilleachbeautomaticallyexchangedfor

40ClassBnon-cumulativepreferredsharesofthebank,Series11and

12,respectively,withouttheconsentoftheholdersontheoccurrenceof

specificevents,suchasawind-upofthebank,aregulatoryrequirement

toincreasecapitalorviolationsofregulatorycapitalrequirements.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
159NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Note19:InterestRateRisk
Weearninterestoninterestbearingassetsandwepayintereston
interestbearingliabilities.Wealsoholdderivativeinstruments,suchas

interestrateswapsandinterestrateoptions,withvaluesthatare

sensitivetochangesininterestrates.Totheextentthatweholdassets,

liabilitiesandderivativeinstrumentsmaturingorrepricingatdifferent

pointsintime,weareexposedtointerestraterisk.
InterestRateGapPosition
Thedeterminationoftheinterestratesensitivityorgappositionby

necessityentailsnumerousassumptions.Itisbasedontheearlierofthe

repricingdateormaturitydateofassets,liabilitiesandderivativesused

tomanageinterestraterisk.
ThegappositionpresentedisasatOctober31,2014and2013.
Itrepresentsthepositionoutstandingatthecloseofthebusiness

dayandmaychangesignificantlyinsubsequentperiodsbasedon

customerbehaviourandtheapplicationofourassetandliability

managementstrategies.
TheassumptionsfortheyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013were
asfollows:
AssetsFixedrate,fixedtermassets,suchasresidentialmortgageloansand

consumerloans,arereportedbaseduponthescheduledrepayments

andestimatedprepaymentsthatreflectexpectedborrowerbehaviour.
Tradingandunderwriting(mark-to-market)assetsandinterest
bearingassetsonwhichthecustomerinterestratechangeswiththe

primerateorothershort-termmarketratesarereportedinthezeroto

threemonthscategory.
Goodwillandintangibleandfixedassetsarereportedasnon-
interestsensitive.Otherfixedrateandnon-interestbearingassetswith

nodefinedmaturityarereportedbaseduponanassumedmaturity

profilethatconsidershistoricalandforecastedtrendsinbalances.
LiabilitiesFixedrate,fixedtermliabilities,suchasinvestmentcertificates,are

reportedatscheduledmaturitywithestimatedredemptionsthatreflect

expecteddepositorbehaviour.
Interestbearingdepositsonwhichthecustomerinterestrate
changeswiththeprimerateorothershort-termmarketratesare

reportedinthezerotothreemonthscategory.
Fixedrateandnon-interestbearingliabilitieswithnodefined
maturityarereportedbaseduponanassumedmaturityprofilethat

considershistoricalandforecastedtrendsinbalances.
CapitalCommonshareholders’equityisreportedasnon-interestsensitive.
YieldsYieldsarebasedupontheeffectiveinterestratesfortheassetsor

liabilitiesonOctober31,2014and2013.
InterestRateGapPosition
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
AsatOctober31
0to3
months4to6
months7to12
monthsTotalwithin1year
Effectiveinterestrate(%)
1to5
yearsEffectiveinterestrate(%)
Over5
yearsEffectiveinterestrate(%)
Non-interestsensitiveTotal
AssetsCashandcashequivalents
27,32853213427,9941.211,3771.02(27)–(958)28,386
Interestbearingdepositswithbanks
6,110––6,1100.78–––––6,110
Securities104,6421,0332,636108,3111.4523,2172.2310,7263.941,065143,319
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresale
agreements49,5302,2721,61953,4211.72134––––53,555
Loans166,54213,03321,899201,4743.3185,6214.065,0654.5610,878303,038
Otherassets
33,8964681,02135,385
na8,511na351na10,00454,251
Totalassets
388,04817,33827,309432,695118,86016,115–20,989588,659
LiabilitiesandEquity

Deposits215,90921,86120,729258,4990.73119,7371.1014,8522.23–393,088
Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchased
27,348––27,3481.48–––––27,348
Securitieslentorsoldunderrepurchase
agreements39,695––39,6950.68–––––39,695
Otherliabilities
46,8731,8992,17550,947
na15,615na9,603na12,04688,211
Subordinateddebt,capitaltrustsecuritiesand
preferredshareliability
63500–563–4,200–150––4,913
Totalequity
767400–1,167–2,647–300–31,29035,404
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders’equity
330,65524,66022,904378,219142,19924,90543,336588,659
Asset/liabilitygapposition
57,393(7,322)4,40554,476(23,339)(8,790)(22,347)–
Notionalamountsofderivatives
(51,285)(2,183)1,687(51,781)44,7866,995––
Totalinterestrategapposition-2014
Canadiandollar
3,934(5,433)6,6725,17316,0482,082(23,303)–
Foreigncurrency
2,174(4,072)(580)(2,478)5,399(3,877)956–
TotalGap
6,108(9,505)6,0922,695–21,447–(1,795)–(22,347)–
Totalinterestrategapposition-2013

Canadiandollar3,165(3,706)4,8764,33515,6361,442(21,413)–
Foreigncurrency(2,189)940507(742)15(325)1,052–
TotalGap976(2,766)5,3833,593–15,651–1,117–(20,361)–
na-notapplicable
160BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesNote20:Equity
ShareCapital
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
NumberofsharesAmount
Dividendsdeclaredpershare
NumberofsharesAmount
Dividendsdeclaredpershare
NumberofsharesAmount
Dividendsdeclaredper
sharePreferredShares–ClassifiedasEquity
ClassB–Series5
(1)–––
––0.338,000,0002001.33
ClassB–Series13
14,000,0003501.13
14,000,0003501.1314,000,0003501.13
ClassB–Series14
10,000,0002501.31
10,000,0002501.3110,000,0002501.31
ClassB–Series15
10,000,0002501.45
10,000,0002501.4510,000,0002501.45
ClassB–Series16
6,267,3911570.85
6,267,3911571.1912,000,0003001.30
ClassB–Series17
5,732,6091430.64
5,732,6091430.17–––
ClassB–Series18
(2)––0.41
6,000,0001501.636,000,0001501.63
ClassB–Series21
(3)––0.81
11,000,0002751.6311,000,0002751.63
ClassB–Series23
16,000,0004001.35
16,000,0004001.3516,000,0004001.35
ClassB–Series25
11,600,0002900.98
11,600,0002900.9811,600,0002900.98
ClassB–Series27
20,000,0005000.59
––––––
ClassB–Series29
16,000,0004000.46
––––––
ClassB–Series31
12,000,0003000.31
––––––
3,0402,2652,465
CommonShares

Balanceatbeginningofyear
644,129,94512,003
650,729,64411,957638,999,56311,332
IssuedundertheShareholderDividend
ReinvestmentandSharePurchasePlan
2,786,997223
2,069,2691309,738,842543
Issued/cancelledundertheStockOptionPlan
andotherstock-basedcompensationplans
(Note23)
2,133,107131
2,068,1321161,763,38980
Issuedontheexchangeofsharesofa
subsidiarycorporation
––––227,8502
Repurchasedforcancellation
––(10,737,100)(200)––
BalanceatEndofYear
649,050,04912,3573.08
644,129,94512,0032.94650,729,64411,9572.82
ShareCapital
15,39714,26814,422
(1)DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2013,weredeemedallofourClassB–Series5Preferredshares.DividendsdeclaredfortheyearendedOctober31,2013were$0.33pershareand8,000,000
shareswereoutstandingatthetimeofdividenddeclaration.
(2)DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,weredeemedallofourClassB–Series18Preferredshares.DividendsdeclaredfortheyearendedOctober31,2014were$0.41pershareand6,000,000
shareswereoutstandingatthetimeofthedividenddeclaration.
(3)DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,weredeemedallofourClassB–Series21Preferredshares.DividendsdeclaredfortheyearendedOctober31,2014were$0.81pershareand11,000,000
shareswereoutstandingatthetimeofthedividenddeclaration.
PreferredShares
Weareauthorizedbyourshareholderstoissueanunlimitednumberof
ClassAPreferredsharesandClassBPreferredshareswithoutparvalue,

inseries,forunlimitedconsideration.ClassBPreferredsharesmaybe

issuedinaforeigncurrency.
OnApril23,2014,weissued20millionNon-Cumulative,5-Year
RateResetClassBPreferredSharesSeries27,atapriceof$25.00cash

pershare,forgrossproceedsof$500million.
OnJune6,2014,weissued16millionNon-Cumulative,5-YearRate
ResetClassBPreferredSharesSeries29,atapriceof$25.00cashper

share,forgrossproceedsof$400million.
OnJuly30,2014,weissued12millionNon-Cumulative,5-YearRate
ResetClassBPreferredSharesSeries31,atapriceof$25.00cashper

share,forgrossproceedsof$300million.
DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014weredeemedallofour
Non-cumulativeClassBPreferredshares,Series18,andourNon-

cumulativeClassBPreferredshares,Series21,ataredemptionpriceof

$25.00pershareplusdeclaredandunpaiddividendsuptobutexcluding

thedatesfixedforredemption.
DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2013weredeemedallofour
Non-CumulativeClassBPreferredSharesSeries5ataredemptionprice

of$25.00pershareplusdeclaredandunpaiddividendsuptobut

excludingthedatefixedforredemption.
DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2012,weredeemedallofour
U.S.dollar-denominatedNon-cumulativeClassBPreferredshares,

Series10,atapriceofUS$25.00pershareplusalldeclaredandunpaid

dividendsuptobutexcludingthedatefixedforredemption.We

recognizedagainof$96millionincontributedsurplusrelatedtoforeign

exchangeuponredemptionofthesepreferredshares.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
161NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
PreferredShareRightsandPrivileges
(Canadian$,exceptasnoted)
RedemptionamountQuarterlynon-
cumulativedividend(1)Resetpremiums
Dateredeemable/convertibleConvertibleto
ClassB–Series13
25.00$0.28125
Current(2)na
ClassB–Series14
25.00$0.328125
Current(2)na
ClassB–Series15
25.00$0.3625
Current(2)na
ClassB–Series16
25.00$0.211875
(3)1.65%August25,2018
(4)(5)(6)
ClassB–Series17
(7)ClassB–Series17
25.00Floating
(8)1.65%August25,2018
(4)(5)(6)
ClassB–Series16
(7)ClassB–Series23
25.00$0.3375
(3)2.41%February25,2015
(5)(6)
ClassB–Series24
(7)ClassB–Series25
25.00$0.24375
(3)1.15%August25,2016
(5)(6)
ClassB–Series26
(7)ClassB–Series27
25.00$0.2500
(3)2.33%May25,2019
(5)(6)
ClassB–Series28
(7)ClassB–Series29
25.00$0.24375
(3)2.24%August25,2019
(5)(6)
ClassB–Series30
(7)ClassB–Series31
25.00$0.2375
(3)2.22%November25,2019
(5)(6)
ClassB–Series32
(7)(1)Non-cumulativedividendsarepayablequarterlyasandwhendeclaredbytheBoardofDirectors.
(2)SubjecttoaredemptionpremiumifredeemedpriortoFebruary25,2016–Series13;November25,2016–Series14;andMay25,2017–Series15.

(3)Thedividendratewillresetonthedateredeemableandeveryfiveyearsthereafteratarateequaltothe5-yearGovernmentofCanadabondyieldplustheresetpremiumnoted.Ifconvertedtoa
floatingrateseries,theratewillbesetasandwhendeclaredtothe3-monthGovernmentofCanadatreasurybillyieldplustheresetpremiumnoted.
(4)OnJuly22,2013,weannouncedthatwedidnotintendtoexerciseourrighttoredeemtheNon-cumulative5-YearRateResetClassBPreferredshares,S
eries16ontheinitialredemptiondate.Asa
result,subjecttocertainconditions,theholdersofSeries16Preferredshareshadtheright,attheiroption,toelecttoconvertallorpartoftheirSeries16Preferredsharesonaone-for-onebasisinto

Non-cumulativeFloatingRateClassBPreferredShares,Series17,effectiveAugust26,2013.
(5)Redeemableonthedatenotedandeveryfiveyearsthereafter.

(6)Convertibleonthedateconvertiblenotedaboveandeveryfiveyearsthereafterifnotredeemed.Series17,24,26,28,30and32arefloatingratepreferredshares.

(7)Ifconverted,theholdershavetheoptiontoconvertbacktotheoriginalpreferredsharesonsubsequentredemptiondates.

(8)Floatingratesetasandwhendeclaredatthe3-monthGovernmentofCanadatreasurybillyieldplusresetpremiumof1.65%.

na–notapplicable
Non-ViabilityContingentCapital
ClassB–Series27,ClassB–Series29andClassB–Series31Preferred
shareissuesincludeanon-viabilitycontingentcapitalprovision,whichis

necessaryforthesharestoqualifyasregulatorycapitalunderBaselIII.As

such,thesharesareconvertibleintoavariablenumberofourcommon

sharesifOSFIpubliclyannouncesthatthebankisorisabouttobecome
non-viableorafederalorprovincialgovernmentinCanadapublicly
announcesthatthebankhasacceptedoragreedtoacceptacapital

injectiontoavoidnon-viability.
CommonShares
Weareauthorizedbyourshareholderstoissueanunlimitednumberof

ourcommonshares,withoutparvalue,forunlimitedconsideration.Our

commonsharesarenotredeemableorconvertible.Dividendsare

declaredbyourBoardofDirectorsonaquarterlybasisandtheamount

canvaryfromquartertoquarter.
DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,weissued4,920,104
commonsharesprimarilythroughourdividendreinvestmentandshare

purchaseplanandtheexerciseofstockoptions(4,137,401in2013).
NormalCourseIssuerBid
OnFebruary1,2014,werenewedournormalcourseissuerbid,

effectiveforoneyear.Underthisnormalcourseissuerbid,wemay

repurchaseforcancellationupto15,000,000ofourcommonshares.The

timingandamountofpurchasesundertheprogramaresubjectto

managementdiscretionbasedonfactorssuchasmarketconditionsand

capitaladequacy.ThebankwillperiodicallyconsultwithOSFIbefore

makingpurchasesunderthebid.
Ourpreviousnormalcourseissuerbid,whichallowedusto
repurchaseforcancellationupto15,000,000ofourcommonshares,

expiredonJanuary31,2014.DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,

wedidnotmakeanyrepurchasesunderthenormalcourseissuerbid.

DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2013,werepurchased10,737,100of

ourcommonsharesatanaveragecostof$62.89pershare.
ShareRedemptionandDividendRestrictions
OSFImustapproveanyplantoredeemanyofourpreferredshareissues

forcash.
Weareprohibitedfromdeclaringdividendsonourpreferredor
commonshareswhenwewouldbe,asaresultofpayingsucha

dividend,incontraventionofthecapitaladequacy,liquidityoranyother

regulatorydirectiveissuedunderthe
BankAct
.Inaddition,common
sharedividendscannotbepaidunlessalldividendsdeclaredand
payableonourpreferredshareshavebeenpaidorsufficientfundshave

beensetasidetodoso.
Inaddition,wehaveagreedthatifeitherBMOCapitalTrust,our
subsidiary,orBMOCapitalTrustII,anunconsolidatedstructuredentity,

(collectively,the“Trusts”),failstopayanyrequireddistributionontheir

capitaltrustsecurities,wewillnotdeclaredividendsofanykindonany

ofourpreferredorcommonsharesforaperiodoftimefollowingsuch

Trusts’failuretopaytherequireddistribution(asdefinedinthe

applicableprospectuses)unlesssuchTrustsfirstpaysuchdistributionto

theholdersoftheircapitaltrustsecurities(seeNote18).
ShareholderDividendReinvestment
andSharePurchasePlan
Weofferadividendreinvestmentandsharepurchaseplan(“DRIP”)for
ourshareholders.Participationintheplanisoptional.Undertheterms

oftheDRIP,cashdividendsoncommonsharesarereinvestedto

purchaseadditionalcommonshares.Shareholdersalsohavethe

opportunitytomakeoptionalcashpaymentstoacquireadditional

commonshares.
Wemayissuethesecommonsharesatanaverageoftheclosing
priceofourcommonsharesontheTorontoStockExchangebasedon

thefivetradingdayspriortothelastbusinessdayofthemonthorwe

maypurchasethemontheopenmarketatmarketprices.Commencing

withthedividendpaidinthefourthquarterof2013andcontinuing

throughthedividendpaidinthesecondquarterof2014,common

sharestosupplytheDRIPwerepurchasedontheopenmarket.Forthe

dividendpaidinthethirdquarterof2014,commonsharestosupplythe

DRIPwereissuedfromtreasurywithoutdiscount.Forthedividendpaid

inthefourthquarterof2014,commonsharestosupplytheDRIPwere

issuedfromtreasurywitha2%discountfromthethen-currentmarket

price.DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,weissuedatotalof
2,786,997commonsharesfromtreasury(2,069,269in2013)and

purchased1,276,088commonsharesintheopenmarket(700,362in

2013)undertheDRIP.
PotentialShareIssuances
AsatOctober31,2014,wehadreserved6,533,403commonshares

(9,320,400in2013)forpotentialissuanceinrespectofourShareholder

DividendReinvestmentandSharePurchasePlan.Wehavealsoreserved

13,337,765commonshares(15,801,966in2013)forthepotential

exerciseofstockoptions,asfurtherdescribedinNote23.
162BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesTreasuryShares
Whenwepurchaseourcommonsharesaspartofourtradingbusiness,
werecordthecostofthosesharesasareductioninshareholders’

equity.Ifthosesharesareresoldatapricehigherthantheircost,the

premiumisrecordedasanincreaseincontributedsurplus.Ifthose

sharesareresoldatapricebelowtheircost,thediscountisrecordedas

areductionfirsttocontributedsurplusandthentoretainedearningsfor

anyamountsinexcessoftotalcontributedsurplusrelatedtotreasury

shares.Non-ControllingInterest
Includedinnon-controllinginterestinsubsidiariesasatOctober31,

2014werecapitaltrustsecuritiesincludingaccruedinteresttotalling

$1,063million($1,068millionin2013)relatedtonon-controlling

interestinsubsidiariesandformedpartofourTier1regulatorycapital,

asfurtherdescribedinNote18.During2013,weredeemedtheUS$250

million,7.375%preferredsharesissuedbyHarrisPreferredCapital

Corporation,aU.S.subsidiary.Non-controllinginterestinother

subsidiarieswas$22millionatOctober31,2014resultingfromourF&C

acquisition.Note21:OffsettingofFinancialAssetsandFinancialLiabilities
Thefollowingtablepresentstheamountsthathavebeenoffsetinour

ConsolidatedBalanceSheet,aswellasthoseamountsthataresubject

toenforceablemasternettingarrangementsorsimilaragreementsbut

donotqualifyfornetting.AmountsoffsetintheConsolidatedBalance

Sheetincludesecuritiespurchasedunderresaleagreements,securities
soldunderrepurchaseagreementsandderivativeinstruments.Amounts

notoffsetintheConsolidatedBalanceSheetrelatetotransactions

whereamasternettingarrangementorsimilaragreementisinplace

witharightofsetoffonlyintheeventofdefault,insolvencyor

bankruptcy,orwheretheoffsetcriteriaareotherwisenotmet.
(Canadian$inmillions)
2014GrossamountsAmountsoffset
inthebalance
sheetNetamounts
presentedin
thebalancesheet
Amountsnotoffsetinthebalancesheet
Impactof
masternetting
agreementsFinancialinstrumentsreceived/pledgedas
collateralCashcollateralNetamount
FinancialAssets
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreements
57,1193,56453,55510,00441,042–2,509
Derivativeinstruments
38,3385,68332,65524,3981,6768255,756
95,4579,24786,21034,40242,7188258,265
FinancialLiabilities
Derivativeinstruments
39,3405,68333,65724,3983,0483235,888
Securitieslentorsoldunderrepurchaseagreements
43,2593,56439,69510,00428,868–823
82,5999,24773,35234,40231,9163236,711
(Canadian$inmillions)
2013GrossamountsAmountsoffset
inthebalance
sheetNetamounts
presentedin
thebalancesheet
Amountsnotoffsetinthebalancesheet
Impactof
masternetting
agreementsFinancialinstrumentsreceived/pledgedas
collateralCashcollateralNetamount
FinancialAssets
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresaleagreements41,5871,78839,79912,17022,941–4,688

Derivativeinstruments33,7453,48630,25924,4591,2088233,769
75,3325,27470,05836,62924,1498238,457
FinancialLiabilities

Derivativeinstruments35,4603,48631,97424,4592,0071,3014,207

Securitieslentorsoldunderrepurchaseagreements30,6721,78828,88412,17015,820–894
66,1325,27460,85836,62917,8271,3015,101
Note22:CapitalManagement
Ourobjectiveistomaintainastrongcapitalpositioninacost-effective
structurethat:considersourtargetregulatorycapitalratiosandinternal

assessmentofrequiredeconomiccapital;isconsistentwithourtargeted

creditratings;underpinsouroperatinggroups’businessstrategies;and

buildsdepositorconfidenceandlong-termshareholdervalue.
Ourapproachincludesestablishinglimits,targetsandperformance
measuresforthemanagementofbalancesheetpositions,risklevels

andminimumcapitalamounts,aswellasissuingandredeemingcapital

instrumentstoobtainacost-effectivecapitalstructure.
Regulatorycapitalrequirementsandrisk-weightedassetsforthe
consolidatedentityaredeterminedonaBaselIIIbasis.
Adjustedcommonshareholders’equity,knownasCommonEquity
Tier1capitalunderBaselIII,isthemostpermanentformofcapital.Itis

comprisedofcommonshareholders’equitylessdeductionsforgoodwill,

intangibleassetsandcertainotheritemsunderBaselIII.Tier1capitalis

primarilycomprisedofregulatorycommonequity,preferredsharesand

innovativehybridinstrumentsnetofTier1capitaldeductions.Total

capitalincludesTier1andTier2capital,netofcertaindeductions.Tier2

capitalisprimarilycomprisedofsubordinateddebenturesandthe

eligibleportionofthecollectiveallowanceforcreditlosses,netof

certainTier2capitaldeductions.Detailsofthecomponentsofourcapital

positionarepresentedinNotes13,16,17,18and20.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
163NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
OurCommonEquityTier1CapitalRatio,Tier1CapitalRatio,Total
CapitalRatioandAssets-to-CapitalMultiplearetheprimaryregulatory
capitalmeasures.
‰TheCommonEquityTier1CapitalRatioisdefinedascommon

shareholders’equity,netofcapitaladjustments,dividedbyCommon

EquityTier1capitalrisk-weightedassets.
‰TheTier1CapitalRatioisdefinedasTier1capitaldividedbyTier1

capitalrisk-weightedassets.
‰TheTotalCapitalRatioisdefinedasTotalcapitaldividedbyTotal

capitalrisk-weightedassets.
‰TheAssets-to-CapitalMultipleiscalculatedbydividingtotalassetsand

specifiedoff-balancesheetitems,netofotherspecifieddeductions,

byTotalcapitalcalculatedonaBaselIIItransitionalbasis.
RegulatoryCapitalandRisk-WeightedAssets
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
BaselIII
2014BaselIII
2013CommonEquityTier1Capital
22,42121,227Tier1Capital
26,60224,599TotalCapital
31,92729,500CommonEquityTier1CapitalRisk-Weighted
Assets222,092215,094Tier1CapitalRisk-WeightedAssets
222,428215,094TotalCapitalRisk-WeightedAssets
222,931215,094CommonEquityTier1CapitalRatio
10.1%9.9%Tier1CapitalRatio
12.0%
11.4%TotalCapitalRatio
14.3%
13.7%Assets-to-CapitalMultiple
16.115.6All2014and2013balancesaboveareonaBaselIII“all-in”basis.
WehavemetOSFI’sstatedminimumcapitalratiorequirementsasat

October31,2014.
Note23:EmployeeCompensation–Stock-BasedCompensation
StockOptionPlan
WemaintainaStockOptionPlanfordesignatedofficersandemployees.

Optionsaregrantedatanexercisepriceequaltotheclosingpriceofour

commonsharesonthedaybeforethegrantdate.Stockoptionsgranted

onorafterDecember2013vestinequaltranchesof50%onthethird

andfourthanniversariesoftheirgrantdate.Optionsgrantedpriorto

December2013vestintranchesoverafour-yearperiodstartingfrom

theirgrantdate.Eachtranche(i.e.theportionthatvestseachyear)is

treatedasaseparateawardwithadifferentvestingperiod.Aportionof

theoptionscanonlybeexercisedoncecertainperformancetargetsare

met.Alloptionsexpire10yearsfromtheirgrantdate.
Wedeterminethefairvalueofstockoptionsontheirgrantdate
andrecordthisamountascompensationexpenseovertheperiodthat

thestockoptionsvest,withacorrespondingincreasetocontributed

surplus.Whenthesestockoptionsareexercised,weissuesharesand

recordtheamountofproceeds,togetherwiththeamountrecordedin

contributedsurplus,insharecapital.Amountsrelatedtostockoptions

grantedtoemployeeseligibletoretireareexpensedatthedateof

grant.ThefollowingtablesummarizesinformationaboutourStockOptionPlan:
(Canadian$,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
Numberof
stockoptions
Weighted-averageexerciseprice
Numberof
stockoptions
Weighted-averageexerciseprice
Numberof
stockoptions
Weighted-averageexerciseprice
Outstandingatbeginningofyear
14,968,71178.17
15,801,96679.9616,989,49984.28
Granted1,618,22368.60
2,003,44660.112,526,34556.00
Exercised2,133,10753.66
2,069,58847.951,766,31840.17
Forfeited/cancelled88,96579.77
5,55856.3554,56540.77
Expired1,027,097139.34
761,555150.781,892,995126.62
Outstandingatendofyear
13,337,76576.21
14,968,71178.1715,801,96679.96
Exercisableatendofyear
6,607,23790.85
7,283,32198.797,900,710103.87
Availableforgrant
4,222,7225,201,0626,879,964
Outstandingstockoptionsasapercentageof
outstandingshares
2.06%2.32%2.43%
Employeecompensationexpenserelatedtothisplanfortheyears

endedOctober31,2014,2013and2012was$11million,$14million

and$17millionbeforetax,respectively($11million,$13millionand

$16millionaftertax,respectively).
Theintrinsicvalueofastockoptiongrantisthedifferencebetween
thecurrentmarketpriceofourcommonsharesandthestrikepriceof
theoption.Theaggregateintrinsicvalueofstockoptionsoutstandingat

October31,2014,2013and2012was$279million,$215millionand

$79million,respectively.Theaggregateintrinsicvalueofstockoptions

exercisableatOctober31,2014,2013and2012was$145million,

$107millionand$47million,respectively.
OptionsoutstandingandexercisableatOctober31,2014and2013byrangeofexercisepricewereasfollows:
(Canadian$,exceptasnoted)
20142013OptionsoutstandingOptionsexercisable
OptionsoutstandingOptionsexercisable
Rangeofexercise

pricesNumberofstock
optionsWeighted-averageremainingcontractuallife(years)
Weighted-averageexercisepriceNumberofstock
optionsWeighted-averageremainingcontractuallife(years)
Weighted-averageexercisepriceNumberofstock
optionsWeighted-averageremainingcontractuallife(years)
Weighted-averageexercisepriceNumberofstock
optionsWeighted-averageremainingcontractuallife(years)
Weighted-averageexerciseprice$30.01to$40.00
718,2994.134.13718,2994.134.13
1,044,1755.134.121,044,1755.134.12
$40.01to$50.00
208,4374.642.36208,4374.642.36
262,9595.642.44262,9595.642.44
$50.01to$60.00
5,087,7505.756.053,000,2626.055.73
6,934,0416.055.782,845,9456.155.57
$60.01to$70.00
5,956,2326.063.891,313,1924.162.71
4,886,7385.662.281,289,4443.263.94
$70.01andover
(1)1,367,0472.6232.141,367,0472.6232.14
1,840,7983.1234.781,840,7983.1234.78
(1)IssuedaspartoftheacquisitionofM&I.
164BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesThefollowingtablesummarizesnon-vestedstockoptionactivityforthe
yearsendedOctober31,2014and2013:
(Canadian$,exceptasnoted)
20142013Numberof
stockoptionsWeighted-averagegrantdate
fairvalue
Numberof
stockoptionsWeighted-averagegrantdate
fairvalue
Non-vestedat
beginningofyear
7,685,3907.18
7,901,2567.77
Granted1,618,2236.36
2,003,4465.29
Vested1,971,0737.56
1,974,5807.64
Expired559,8418.83
240,8247.22
Forfeited/cancelled42,1716.49
3,9085.99
Non-vestedatendof
year6,730,5286.74
7,685,3907.18
ThefollowingtablesummarizesfurtherinformationaboutourStock

OptionPlan:
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
Unrecognizedcompensationcostfornon-
vestedstockoptionawards
569Weighted-averageperiodoverwhichitwillbe
recognized(inyears)
2.72.12.3
Totalintrinsicvalueofstockoptionsexercised
493531
Cashproceedsfromstockoptionsexercised
1159971
Actualtaxbenefitsrealizedonstockoptions
exercised1–4Weighted-averagesharepriceforstock
optionsexercised
76.664.857.8
Thefairvalueofoptionsgrantedwasestimatedusingabinomialoption

pricingmodel.Theweighted-averagefairvalueofoptionsgranted

duringtheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012was$6.36,

$5.29and$5.54,respectively.Todeterminethefairvalueofthestock

optiontranchesonthegrantdate,thefollowingrangesofvalueswere

usedforeachoptionpricingassumption:
201420132012
Expecteddividendyield
5.0%6.0%–6.2%6.8%–7.2%
Expectedshareprice
volatility16.40%18.1%–18.6%21.3%–22.3%
Risk-freerateofreturn
2.5%–2.6%
1.7%–1.9%1.5%–1.8%
Expectedperioduntil
exercise(inyears)
6.5–7.0
5.5–7.05.5–7.0
Changestotheinputassumptionscanresultindifferentfairvalueestimates.
Expecteddividendyieldisbasedonmarketexpectationsoffuture

dividendsonourcommonshares.Expectedvolatilityisdetermined

basedonthemarketconsensusimpliedvolatilityfortradedoptionson

ourcommonshares.Therisk-freerateisbasedontheyieldsofa

Canadianswapcurvewithmaturitiessimilartotheexpectedperioduntil

exerciseoftheoptions.Theweighted-averageexercisepriceonthe

grantdatefortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012was

$68.60,$60.11and$56.00,respectively.
Stock-BasedCompensation
SharePurchasePlan
Weofferouremployeestheoptionofdirectingaportionoftheirgross

salarytowardthepurchaseofourcommonshares.Wematch50%of

employeecontributionsupto6%oftheirindividualgrosssalary.The

sharesheldintheemployeesharepurchaseplanarepurchasedonthe

openmarketandareconsideredoutstandingforpurposesofcomputing

earningspershare.Thedividendsearnedonourcommonsharesheldby

theplanareusedtopurchaseadditionalcommonsharesonthe

openmarket.
Weaccountforourcontributionasemployeecompensation
expensewhenitiscontributedtotheplan.
Employeecompensationexpenserelatedtothisplanfortheyears
endedOctober31,2014,2013and2012was$50million,$50million
and$48million,respectively.Therewere18.7million,19.3millionand

19.3millioncommonsharesheldinthisplanfortheyearsended

October31,2014,2013and2012,respectively.
Mid-TermIncentivePlans
Weoffermid-termincentiveplansforexecutivesandcertainsenior

employees.Dependingontheplan,therecipientreceiveseitherasingle

cashpaymentattheendofthethree-yearperiodoftheplan,orcash

paymentsoverthethreeyearsoftheplan.Theamountofthepayment

isadjustedtoreflectreinvesteddividendsandchangesinthemarket

valueofourcommonshares.
Mid-termincentiveplanunitsgrantedduringtheyearsended
October31,2014,2013and2012totalled5.9million,5.8millionand

6.4million,respectively.Weenteredintoagreementswiththirdparties

toassumemostofourobligationsrelatedtotheseplansinexchangefor

cashpaymentsof$214million,$292millionand$310millioninthe

yearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012,respectively.Amounts

paidundertheseagreementswererecordedinourConsolidatedBalance

Sheetinotherassetsandarerecordedasemployeecompensation

expenseevenlyovertheperiodpriortopaymenttoemployees.

Amountsrelatedtounitsgrantedtoemployeeswhoareeligibleto

retireareexpensedatthetimeofgrant.Wenolongerhaveanyliability

fortheobligationstransferredtothirdpartiesbecauseanyfuture

paymentsrequiredwillbetheresponsibilityofthethirdparties.The

amountdeferredandrecordedinotherassetsinourConsolidated

BalanceSheettotalled$131millionand$172millionasatOctober31,

2014and2013,respectively.ThedeferredamountasatOctober31,

2014isexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodof

1.7years(1.8yearsin2013).Employeecompensationexpenserelated

totheseplansfortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012

was$239million,$279millionand$280millionbeforetax,respectively

($177million,$206millionand$204millionaftertax,respectively).
Fortheremainingobligationsrelatedtoplansforwhichwehave
notenteredintoagreementswiththirdparties,thefairvalueofthe

amountofcompensationexpenseisrecognizedasanexpenseanda

liabilityovertheperiodfromthegrantdatetopaymentdateto

employees.Thisliabilityisre-measuredtofairvalueeachreporting

period.Amountsrelatedtoemployeeswhoareeligibletoretireare

expensedatthetimeofgrant.Ofthetotalunitsgranted,wehad

remainingobligationson3.1million,1.0millionand1.1millionunitsfor

theyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012,respectively.The

weighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueoftheunitsgrantedduringthe

yearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012was$228million,

$50millionand$65million,respectively.Paymentsmadeunderthese

plansfortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012were

$57million,$37millionand$44million,respectively.Theintrinsicvalue

ofthevestedplanunitsrecordedinotherliabilitiesinourConsolidated

BalanceSheetasatOctober31,2014,2013and2012was$288million,

$126millionand$85million,respectively.
Employeecompensationexpenserelatedtoplansforwhichwe
havenotenteredintoagreementswiththirdpartiesfortheyearsended

October31,2014,2013and2012was$159million,$63millionand

$48millionbeforetax,respectively($118million,$47millionand

$35millionaftertax,respectively).Weeconomicallyhedgetheimpact

ofthechangeinthemarketvalueofourcommonsharesbyentering

intototalreturnswaps.Hedginggainsrecognizedfortheyearsended

October31,2014,2013and2012were$55million,$32millionand

$3million,respectively,resultinginnetemployeecompensation

expenseof$104million,$31millionand$45millionbeforetax,

respectively($77million,$23millionand$33millionaftertax,

respectively).Atotalof16.5million,15.3millionand14.7millionmid-term
incentiveplanunitswereoutstandingfortheyearsendedOctober31,

2014,2013and2012,respectively.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
165NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
DeferredIncentivePlans
WeofferdeferredincentiveplansformembersofourBoardofDirectors,
executivesandkeyemployeesinBMOCapitalMarketsandWealth

Management.Undertheseplans,fees,annualincentivepayments

and/orcommissionscanbedeferredasstockunitsofourcommon

shares.Thesestockunitsareeitherfullyvestedonthegrantdateor

vestattheendofthreeyears.Thevalueofthesestockunitsisadjusted

toreflectreinvesteddividendsandchangesinthemarketvalueofour

commonshares.
Deferredincentiveplanpaymentsarepaidupontheparticipant’s
departurefromthebank.Asaresultofchangestothedeferredshare

unitplantermseffectiveSeptember30,2013,thedeferredincentive

planpaymentscannowonlybemadeincash.
Employeecompensationexpensefortheseplansisrecordedinthe
yearthefees,incentivepaymentsand/orcommissionsareearned.

Changesintheamountoftheincentivepaymentsasaresultofdividends

andsharepricemovementsarerecordedasincreasesordecreasesin

employeecompensationexpenseintheperiodofthechange.
Deferredincentiveplanunitsgrantedduringtheyearsended
October31,2014,2013and2012totalled0.4million,0.4millionand

0.4million,respectively.Theweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof

theunitsgrantedduringtheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and

2012was$26million,$22millionand$21million,respectively.
Liabilitiesrelatedtotheseplansarerecordedinotherliabilitiesin
ourConsolidatedBalanceSheetandtotalled$404millionand

$349millionasatOctober31,2014and2013,respectively.Payments

madeundertheseplansfortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and

2012were$18million,$16millionand$19million,respectively.
Employeecompensationexpenserelatedtotheseplansforthe
yearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012was$76million,

$85millionand$22millionbeforetax,respectively($56million,

$63millionand$16millionaftertax,respectively).Wehaveentered

intoderivativeinstrumentstohedgeourexposurerelatedtothese

plans.Changesinthefairvalueofthesederivativesarerecordedas

employeecompensationexpenseintheperiodinwhichtheyarise.

HedginggainsfortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012of

$56million,$75millionand$9millionbeforetax,respectively,were

alsorecognized,resultinginnetemployeecompensationexpenseof

$20million,$10millionand$13millionbeforetax,respectively

($15million,$7millionand$9millionaftertax,respectively).
Atotalof4.7million,4.3millionand4.0milliondeferredincentive
planunitswereoutstandingfortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013

and2012,respectively.
Note24:EmployeeCompensation–Pensionand
OtherEmployeeFutureBenefits
PensionandOtherEmployeeFutureBenefitPlans
WesponsoranumberofarrangementsinCanadaandtheUnitedStates

thatprovidepensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitstoourretired

andcurrentemployees.Thelargestofthesearrangements,bydefined

benefitobligation,aretheprimarydefinedbenefitpensionplansfor

employeesinCanadaandtheUnitedStatesandtheprimaryother

employeefuturebenefitplanforemployeesinCanada.
Pensionarrangementsincludedefinedbenefitpensionplans,as
wellassupplementaryarrangementsthatprovidepensionbenefitsin

excessofstatutorylimits.Generally,undertheseplansweprovide

retirementbenefitsbasedonanemployee’syearsofserviceand

averageannualearningsoveraperiodoftimepriortoretirement.Our

pensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitexpenses,recordedin

employeecompensationexpense,mainlycomprisethecurrentservice

costplusorminustheinterestonplannetdefinedbenefitassetsor

liabilities.Inaddition,weprovidedefinedcontributionpensionplansto

employeesinsomeofoursubsidiaries.Thecostsoftheseplans,

recordedinemployeecompensationexpense,areequaltoour

contributionstotheplans.
Wealsoprovideotheremployeefuturebenefits,includinghealth
anddentalcarebenefitsandlifeinsurance,forcurrentandretired

employees.Short-termemployeebenefits,suchassalaries,paidabsences,
bonusesandotherbenefits,areaccountedforonanaccrualbasisover

theperiodinwhichtheemployeesprovidetherelatedservices.
InvestmentPolicy
Theassetsofthedefinedbenefitpensionplansaremanagedin

accordancewithallapplicablelawsandregulations.Theplansare

administeredwithawell-definedgovernancestructurewiththe

oversightanddecision-makingrestingwiththeBoardofDirectors.
Theplansaremanagedunderariskmanagementframeworkthat
considersbothassetsandliabilitiesinthedevelopmentofan

investmentpolicyandinmanagingrisk.
Theplansinvestinassetclassesthatincludeequities,fixedincome
andalternativestrategies,underestablishedinvestmentguidelines.Plan
assetsarediversifiedacrossassetclassesandbygeographicexposure.

Theyaremanagedbyassetmanagementfirmsthatareresponsiblefor

theselectionofinvestmentsecurities.Derivativeinstrumentsare

permittedunderpolicyguidelinesandaregenerallyusedtohedge

foreigncurrencyexposures,manageinterestrateexposuresorreplicate

thereturnofanasset.
RiskManagement
Theplansareexposedtovariousrisks,includingmarketrisk(interest

rate,equityandforeigncurrencyrisks),creditrisk,operationalrisk,

surplusriskandlongevityrisk.Wefollowanumberofapproachesto

monitorandactivelymanagetheserisks,includingmonitoringsurplus-

at-risk,whichmeasuresaplan’sriskinanasset-liabilityframework;

stresstestingandscenarioanalysestoevaluatethevolatilityofthe

plans’financialpositionsandanypotentialimpactonthebank;hedging

ofcurrencyexposuresandinterestrateriskwithinpolicylimits;controls

relatedtoassetmixallocations,geographicallocations,portfolio

duration,creditquality,liquidity,sectorguidelines,issuer/counterparty

limits,andothers;andongoingmonitoringofexposures,performance

andrisklevels.
PensionandOtherEmployeeFutureBenefitLiabilities
Ouractuariesperformvaluationsofourdefinedbenefitobligationsfor

pensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitsasatOctober31ofeach

yearusingtheprojectedunitcreditmethodbasedonmanagement’s

assumptionsaboutdiscountrates,ratesofcompensationincrease,

retirementage,mortalityandhealthcarecosttrendrates.
ThediscountratesfortheprimaryCanadianandU.S.pensionand
otheremployeefuturebenefitplanswereselectedusinghigh-quality

AAratedcorporatebondswithtermsmatchingtheplans’cashflows.
Thefairvalueofplanassetsisdeductedfromthedefinedbenefit
obligationtodeterminethenetdefinedbenefitassetorliability.For

definedbenefitpensionplansthatareinanetdefinedbenefitasset

position,therecognizedassetislimitedtothepresentvalueof

economicbenefitsavailableintheformoffuturerefundsfromtheplan

orreductionsinfuturecontributionstotheplan(the“assetceiling”).

ChangesintheassetceilingarerecognizedinOCI.
166BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesComponentsofthechangeinournetdefinedbenefitassetsor
liabilitiesandourpensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitexpense
areasfollows:
Benefitsearnedbyemployees
representbenefitsearnedinthe
currentyear.Theyaredeterminedwithreferencetothecurrent

workforceandtheamountofbenefitstowhichemployeeswillbe

entitleduponretirement,basedontheprovisionsofourbenefitplans.
Interestonnetdefinedbenefitassetorliability
representsthe
increaseinthenetdefinedbenefitassetorliabilitythatresultsfromthe

passageoftimeandisdeterminedbyapplyingthediscountratetothe

netdefinedbenefitassetorliability.
Actuarialgainsorlosses
mayariseintwoways.First,eachyear
ouractuariesrecalculatethedefinedbenefitobligationsandcompare

themtothoseestimatedasatthepreviousyearend.Anydifferences

thatresultfromchangesindemographicandeconomicassumptionsor

fromplanmemberexperiencebeingdifferentfrommanagement’s

expectationsatthepreviousyearendareconsideredactuarialgainsor

losses.Secondly,actuarialgainsandlossesarisewhenthereare

differencesbetweenthediscountrateandactualreturnsonplanassets.

ActuarialgainsandlossesarerecognizedimmediatelyinOCIasthey

occurandarenotsubsequentlyreclassifiedtoincomeinfutureperiods.
Planamendments
arechangesinourdefinedbenefitobligations
thatresultfromchangestoprovisionsoftheplans.Theeffectsofplan

amendmentsarerecognizedimmediatelyinincomewhenaplanis

amended.Settlementsoccurwhendefinedbenefitobligationsforplan
participantsaresettled,usuallythroughlumpsumcashpayments,and

asaresultwenolongerhaveanyobligationtoprovidesuchparticipants

withbenefitpaymentsinthefuture.
FundingofPensionandOtherEmployeeFutureBenefit
PlansOurdefinedbenefitpensionplansinCanadaandtheUnitedStatesare
fundedbyusinaccordancewithstatutoryrequirementsandtheassets

intheseplansareusedtopaybenefitstoretireesandotheremployees.

Somegroupsofemployeesarealsoeligibletomakevoluntary

contributionsinordertoreceiveenhancedbenefits.Oursupplementary

pensionplaninCanadaisfunded,whileintheUnitedStatesthe

supplementarypensionplanisunfunded.
OurotheremployeefuturebenefitplansinCanadaandtheUnited
Statesareeitherpartiallyfundedorunfunded.Benefitpaymentsrelated

totheseplansareeitherpaidthroughtherespectiveplanorpaid

directlybyus.
WemeasurethefairvalueofplanassetsforourplansinCanada
andtheUnitedStatesasatOctober31.Inadditiontoactuarial

valuationsforaccountingpurposes,wearerequiredtoprepare

valuationsfordeterminingourminimumfundingrequirementsforour

pensionarrangementsinaccordancewiththerelevantstatutory

framework(our“fundingvaluation”).Themostrecentfundingvaluation

forourprimaryCanadianplanwasperformedasatOctober31,2014.

Thenextfundingvaluationforthisplanwillbeperformedasat

October31,2015.Anannualfundingvaluationisrequiredforourplanin

theUnitedStates.Themostrecentvaluationwasperformedasat

January1,2014.Benefitpaymentsforfiscal2015areestimatedtobe

$386million.
Summarizedinformationforthepastthreeyearsisasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
PensionbenefitplansOtheremployeefuturebenefitplans
201420132012
201420132012
Definedbenefitobligation
7,5046,1816,011
1,3171,1741,175
Fairvalueofplanassets
7,5366,2675,800
1139581
Surplus(deficit)andnetdefinedbenefitasset(liability)
3286(211)
(1,204)(1,079)(1,094)
Surplus(deficit)iscomprisedof:
Fundedorpartiallyfundedplans
197192(137)
(12)(9)(21)
Unfundedplans
(165)(106)(74)
(1,192)
(1,070)(1,073)
Surplus(deficit)andnetdefinedbenefitasset(liability)
3286(211)
(1,204)(1,079)(1,094)
Remeasurementofnetdefinedbenefitasset/liabilityrecognizedinOCI
108(368)465
80(56)152
Comparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
AssetAllocations
Theinvestmentpolicyforplanassetsistohaveadiversifiedmixofqualityinvestments.Planassetsarerebalancedwithinrangesaroundtarget

allocations.Theassetallocationrangesandweighted-averageactualassetallocationsofourprimarypensionplans,basedonthefairmarketvaluesat
October31,areasfollows:
Pensionbenefitplans
Range2014Actual2014Actual2013Equities25%–50%42%
43%Fixedincomeinvestments
35%–55%45%
42%Other10%–25%13%
15%BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
167NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
PensionandOtherEmployeeFutureBenefitExpenses
Pensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitexpensesaredeterminedasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
PensionbenefitplansOtheremployeefuturebenefitplans
201420132012
201420132012
Annualbenefitsexpense
Benefitsearnedbyemployees
241234195
252719
Netinterest(income)expenseonnetdefinedbenefit(asset)liability
(11)4(18)
504850
Administrativeexpenses
555–––Remeasurementofotherlong-termbenefits
–––(5)(1)–
Benefitsexpense
235243182
707469
CanadaandQuebecpensionplanexpense
686967
–––Definedcontributionexpense
887–––Totalannualpensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitexpensesrecognizedin
theConsolidatedStatementofIncome
311320256
707469
Comparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
Weighted-averageassumptionsusedtodeterminebenefitexpenses
Pensionbenefitplans
Otheremployeefuturebenefitplans
201420132012
201420132012
Discountrateatbeginningofyear
4.6%4.2%5.1%
4.7%4.4%5.6%
Rateofcompensationincrease
2.9%2.9%3.3%
2.7%3.2%3.2%
Assumedoverallhealthcarecosttrendrate
nanana
5.4%(1)5.4%(1)5.4%(1)(1)Trendingto4.5%in2030andremainingatthatlevelthereafter.na–notapplicable
Assumptionsregardingfuturemortalityarebasedonpublishedstatisticsandmortalitytablescalibratedtoplanexperience,whenapplicable.The
currentlifeexpectanciesunderlyingtheamountsofthedefinedbenefitobligationsforourprimaryplansareasfollows:
(Years)CanadaUnitedStates
2014201320142013Lifeexpectancyforthosecurrentlyage65
Males23.423.121.319.8Females23.823.523.421.6Lifeexpectancyatage65forthosecurrentlyage45

Males24.424.023.319.8Females24.824.325.221.6168BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesChangesintheestimatedfinancialpositionsofourpensionbenefitplansandotheremployeefuturebenefitplansareasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
PensionbenefitplansOtheremployeefuturebenefitplans
2014201320142013Definedbenefitobligation
Definedbenefitobligationatbeginningofyear
6,1816,0111,1741,175Openingadjustmentforacquisitions
455–––Benefitsearnedbyemployees
2412342527Interestcostonaccruedbenefitobligation
2892495551Benefitspaidtopensionersandemployees
(326)(286)(33)(30)Voluntaryemployeecontributions
1211––Actuarialgains(losses)dueto:
Demographicassumptionchanges
48161(15)36Financialassumptionchanges
532(289)98(97)Planmemberexperience
(14)38(3)8Other,primarilyforeignexchange
8652164Definedbenefitobligationatendofyear
7,5046,1811,3171,174Whollyorpartiallyfundeddefinedbenefitobligation
7,3396,075125104Unfundeddefinedbenefitobligation
1651061,1921,070Totaldefinedbenefitobligation
7,5046,1811,3171,174Weighted-averageassumptionsusedtodeterminethedefinedbenefitobligation

Discountrateatendofyear
4.1%4.6%4.2%4.7%Rateofcompensationincrease
2.9%2.9%2.6%2.7%Assumedoverallhealthcarecosttrendrate
nana5.4%(1)5.4%(1)Fairvalueofplanassets

Fairvalueofplanassetsatbeginningofyear
6,2675,8009581Openingadjustmentforacquisitions
456–––Interestincomeonplanassets
30024543Excess(shortfall)ofactualreturnsoverinterestincome
45827858Employercontributions
2841783330Voluntaryemployeecontributions
1211––Benefitspaidtopensionersandemployees
(326)
(286)(33)(30)Administrativeexpenses
(5)(5)––Other,primarilyforeignexchange
904693Fairvalueofplanassetsatendofyear
7,5366,26711395Surplus(deficit)andnetdefinedbenefitasset(liability)attheendoftheyear
3286(1,204)(1,079)Recordedin:

Otherassets
261192––Otherliabilities
(229)(106)(1,204)(1,079)Surplus(deficit)andnetdefinedbenefitasset(liability)atendofyear
3286(1,204)(1,079)Comparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
(1)Trendingto4.5%in2030andremainingatthatlevelthereafter.
na–notapplicable
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
169NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Thebank’spensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitplanassetsare
measuredatfairvalueonarecurringbasis.
ThefairvalueofplanassetsasatOctober31areasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
Canadianplans(1)U.S.plans(2)
2014201320142013Cashandmoneymarketfunds
551783924Securitiesissuedorguaranteedby:
Canadianfederalgovernment
179131––Canadianprovincialandmunicipal
governments785613––U.S.federalgovernment
4–8747U.S.states,municipalitiesand
agencies2141815Othergovernments
54––Pooledfunds
2,7802,42885104Derivativeinstruments
(17)6–1Corporatedebt
737556401336Corporateequity
8348515354955,3644,7811,1651,022(1)AlloftheCanadianplans’assetshavequotedpricesinactivemarkets,exceptsecurities
issuedorguaranteedbyothergovernments,certainoftheassetsinvestedincorporatedebt
($27millionasatOctober31,2014and$nilasatOctober31,2013)andcertainofthe

assetsinvestedinpooledfunds($1,452millionasatOctober31,2014and$1,186millionas

atOctober31,2013).
(2)AlloftheU.S.plans’assetshavequotedpricesinactivemarkets,exceptcorporatedebtand
pooledfunds.
Noplanassetsaredirectlyinvestedinthebank’sorrelatedparties’

securitiesasatOctober31,2014and2013.AsatOctober31,2014,our

primaryCanadianplanindirectlyheldapproximately$11million

($8millionin2013)ofthebank’scommonshares.Theplansdonothold

anypropertyoccupiedorotherassetsusedbythebank.
Theplanspaid$4millionintheyearendedOctober31,2014($3millionin
2013)tousandcertainofoursubsidiariesforinvestmentmanagement,

record-keeping,custodialandadministrativeservicesrendered.
SensitivityofAssumptions
Keyweighted-averageassumptionsusedinmeasuringthedefined

benefitobligationsforourprimaryplansareoutlinedinthefollowing

table.Thesensitivityanalysisprovidedinthetableshouldbeusedwith

cautionasitishypotheticalandtheimpactofchangesineachkey

assumptionmaynotbelinear.Thesensitivitiestochangesineachkey

variablehavebeencalculatedindependentlyoftheimpactofchangesin

otherkeyvariables.Actualexperiencemayresultinsimultaneous

changesinanumberofkeyassumptions.Changesinonefactormay

resultinchangesinanother,whichwouldamplifyorreducecertain

sensitivities.Definedbenefitobligation
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
Pensionbenefitplans
Otheremployee
futurebenefitplans
Discountrate
(%)4.14.3Impactof:1%increase
($)(790)(152)
1%decrease
($)999196Rateofcompensationincrease
(%)2.82.6Impactof:0.25%increase
($)4520.25%decrease
($)(43)(1)MortalityImpactof:1yearincrease
($)(115)(28)1yeardecrease
($)11229Assumedoverallhealthcarecosttrend
rate(%)na5.2(1)Impactof:1%increase
($)na61%decrease
($)na(81)(1)Trendingto4.5%in2030andremainingatthatlevelthereafter.
na–notapplicable
DisaggregationofDefinedBenefitObligation
Disaggregationofthedefinedbenefitobligationforourprimaryplansisasfollows:
20142013Canadianpensionplans

Activemembers
46%46%Inactiveandretiredmembers
54%54%100%100%U.S.pensionplans

Activemembers
62%62%Inactiveandretiredmembers
38%38%100%100%Canadianotheremployeefuturebenefitplans

Activemembers
45%45%Inactiveandretiredmembers
55%55%100%100%MaturityProfile
Thedurationofthedefinedbenefitobligationforourprimaryplansisasfollows:
(Inyears)
20142013Canadianpensionplans
13.612.8U.S.pensionplans
11.210.5Canadianotheremployeefuturebenefitplans
16.514.3170BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesCashFlows
Cashpaymentswemadeduringtheyearinconnectionwithouremployeefuturebenefitplansareasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
PensionbenefitplansOtheremployeefuturebenefitplans
201420132012
201420132012
Contributionstodefinedbenefitplans
254154198
–––Contributionstodefinedcontributionplans
887–––Benefitspaiddirectlytopensioners
302425
333029
292186230
333029
OurbestestimateoftheamountsweexpecttocontributefortheyearendingOctober31,2015isapproximately$182milliontoourpensionbenefitplans
and$40milliontoourotheremployeefuture
benefitplans.
Note25:IncomeTaxes
WereportourprovisionforincometaxesinourConsolidatedStatement
ofIncomebasedupontransactionsrecordedinourconsolidated

financialstatementsregardlessofwhentheyarerecognizedforincome

taxpurposes,withtheexceptionofrepatriationofretainedearnings

fromourforeignsubsidiaries,asnotedbelow.
Inaddition,werecordanincometaxexpenseorbenefitdirectlyin
shareholders’equitywhenthetaxesrelatetoamountsrecordedin

shareholders’equity.Forexample,incometaxexpense(recovery)on

hedginggains(losses)relatedtoournetinvestmentinforeign

operationsisrecordedinourConsolidatedStatementofComprehensive

Incomeaspartofnetgain(loss)ontranslationofnetforeign

operations.Currenttaxistheamountofincometaxrecoverable(payable)in
respectofthetaxableloss(profit)foraperiod.
Deferredincometaxassetsandliabilitiesaremeasuredatthetax
ratesexpectedtoapplywhentemporarydifferencesreverse.Changesin

deferredincometaxassetsandliabilitiesrelatedtoachangeintaxrates

arerecordedinincomeintheperiodthetaxrateissubstantively

enacted,excepttotheextentthatthetaxarisesfromatransactionor

eventwhichisrecognizedeitherinothercomprehensiveincomeor

directlyinequity.
Includedindeferredincometaxassetsis$77millionrelatedto
Canadiantaxlosscarryforwardsthatwillexpirein2030to2034,$1,331

millionrelatedtoU.S.taxlosscarryforwardsthatwillexpireinvarious
amountsinU.S.taxationyearsfrom2028through2033and$10million

relatedtoU.K.taxlosscarryforwardsthatareavailableforuse

indefinitelyagainstrelevantprofitsgeneratedintheU.K.Onthe

evidenceavailable,includingmanagementprojectionsofincome,we

believethattherewillbesufficienttaxableincomegeneratedbyour

businessoperationstosupportthesedeferredtaxassets.Theamountof

taxontemporarydifferences,unusedtaxlossesandunusedtaxcredits

forwhichnodeferredtaxassetisrecognizedinourConsolidated

BalanceSheetasatOctober31,2014is$182million.Deferredtax

assetshavenotbeenrecognizedinrespectoftheseitemsbecauseitis

notprobablethatrealizationoftheseassetswilloccur.
Incomethatweearninforeigncountriesthroughourbranchesor
subsidiariesisgenerallysubjecttotaxinthosecountries.Wearealso

subjecttoCanadiantaxationontheincomeearnedinourforeign

branches.Canadaallowsacreditforforeigntaxespaidonthisincome.

Uponrepatriationofretainedearningsfromcertainforeignsubsidiaries,

wewouldberequiredtopaytaxoncertainoftheseearnings.As

repatriationofsuchearningsisnotplannedintheforeseeablefuture,

wehavenotrecordedtherelateddeferredincometaxliability.
Theamountoftemporarydifferencesassociatedwithinvestments
insubsidiaries,branches,associatesandinterestsinjointventuresfor

whichdeferredtaxliabilitieshavenotbeenrecognizedis$23billionas

atOctober31,2014($20billionin2013).
ComponentsofDeferredIncomeTaxBalances
(Canadian$inmillions)
Allowanceforcreditlosses
Employeefuturebenefits
DeferredcompensationbenefitsOthercomprehensiveincomeTaxloss
carry-forwardsOtherTotal
DeferredIncomeTaxAssets
(1)AsatOctober31,2012
1,097296310
(47)1,4774743,607
Benefit(expense)toincomestatement
(216)4630
–(35)(14)(189)
Benefit(expense)toequity
–(13)
–16––3
Translationandother
33–4243183
AsatOctober31,2013
914329344
(29)1,4854613,504
Acquisitions–815
–10235
Benefit(expense)toincomestatement
(252)3142
–(180)49(310)
Benefit(expense)toequity
–3–(3)–––
Translationandother
96318
2510372317
AsatOctober31,2014
758374419
(7)1,4185843,546
(Canadian$inmillions)
Premisesand
equipmentPensionbenefitsGoodwilland
intangibleassetsSecuritiesOtherTotal
DeferredIncomeTaxLiabilities
(2)AsatOctober31,2012
(320)78
(232)(148)(28)(650)
Acquisitions––(2)––(2)
Benefit(expense)toincomestatement
68(35)113108200
Expensetoequity
–(113)
–––(113)
Translationandother
(6)(4)
(6)–(3)(19)
AsatOctober31,2013
(320)(31)(275)(35)77(584)
Acquisitions5–(90)––(85)
Benefit(expense)toincomestatement
(10)(35)
2832(62)(47)
Benefittoequity
–60–––60
Translationandother
(24)2(30)21(49)
AsatOctober31,2014
(349)(4)(367)(1)16(705)
(1)Deferredtaxassetsof$3,019millionand$3,027millionasatOctober31,2014and2013,respectively,arepresentedonthebalancesheetnetbylegaljurisdiction.
(2)Deferredtaxliabilitiesof$178millionand$107millionasatOctober31,2014and2013,respectively,arepresentedonthebalancesheetnetbylegaljurisdiction.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
171NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
ProvisionforIncomeTaxes
(Canadian$inmillions)
201420132012
ConsolidatedStatementofIncome
CurrentProvisionforincometaxesforthecurrentperiod
5471,095706
Adjustmentsinrespectofcurrenttaxforpriorperiods
(1)(29)(112)
DeferredOriginationandreversaloftemporarydifferences
361(10)287
Effectofchangesintaxrates
(4)(1)(7)
9031,055874
Shareholders’Equity

Incometaxexpense(recovery)relatedto:
Remeasurementofpensionandotheremployeefuturebenefitplans
(63)
126(177)
Unrealized(losses)onavailable-for-salesecurities,netofhedgingactivities
(15)(31)(26)
Gains(losses)oncashflowhedges
51(57)(48)
Hedgingofunrealized(gains)ontranslationofnetforeignoperations
(144)(146)(13)
Total732
947610
ComponentsofTotalProvisionforIncomeTaxes
(Canadian$inmillions)
201420132012
Canada:Currentincometaxes
Federal292457288
Provincial200300186
492757474
Canada:Deferredincometaxes
Federal33(109)(56)
Provincial29(76)(31)
62(185)(87)
TotalCanadian
554
572387
Foreign:Currentincometaxes
(58)9043
Deferredincometaxes
236285180
Totalforeign
178375223
Total732
947610
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
Setoutbelowisareconciliationofourstatutorytaxratesandincometaxesthatwouldbepayableattheseratestotheeffectiveincometaxrates
andprovisionforincometaxesthatwehaverecordedinourConsolidatedStatementofIncome:
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
CombinedCanadianfederalandprovincialincometaxesatthestatutorytaxrate
1,38226.4%
(1)1,38626.4%
(1)1,33826.6%
(1)Increase(decrease)resultingfrom:
Tax-exemptincomefromsecurities
(343)(6.5)
(250)(4.7)(188)(3.7)
Foreignoperationssubjecttodifferenttaxrates
(69)(1.3)
(10)(0.2)(30)(0.7)
Changeintaxratefordeferredincometaxes
(4)(0.1)
(1)–(7)(0.1)
Run-offofstructuredcreditactivities
1–(6)(0.1)(67)(1.3)
Incomeattributabletonon-controllinginterests
(33)(0.7)
(35)(0.7)(35)(0.7)
Adjustmentsinrespectofcurrenttaxforpriorperiods
(1)–
(29)(0.6)(112)(2.2)
Other(30)(0.6)
––(25)(0.5)
Provisionforincometaxesandeffectivetaxrate
90317.2%
1,05520.1%87417.4%
(1)Thecombinedstatutorytaxratechangedduringtheyearasaresultoflegislationthatbecamesubstantivelyenactedwithrespecttotheyear.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
172BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesNote26:EarningsPerShare
BasicEarningsperShare
Ourbasicearningspershareiscalculatedbydividingournetincome
attributabletobankshareholders,afterdeductingtotalpreferredshare

dividends,bythedailyaveragenumberoffullypaidcommonshares

outstandingthroughouttheyear.
BasicEarningsperShare
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
Netincomeattributabletobank
shareholders4,2774,1304,082
Dividendsonpreferredshares
(120)(120)(136)
Netincomeavailabletocommon
shareholders4,1574,0103,946
Averagenumberofcommonshares
outstanding(inthousands)
645,860648,476644,407
Basicearningspershare(Canadian$)
6.446.196.13
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccounting

principles–seeNote1.
DilutedEarningsperShare
Dilutedearningspersharerepresentswhatourearningspershare

wouldhavebeenifinstrumentsconvertibleintocommonsharesthat

wouldhavehadtheimpactofreducingourearningspersharehadbeen

converted,eitheratthebeginningoftheyearforinstrumentsthatwere

outstandingatthebeginningoftheyearorfromthedateofissuefor

instrumentsissuedduringtheyear.
ConvertibleShares
Indeterminingdilutedearningspershare,weincreasenetincome

availabletocommonshareholdersbytheaggregateamountof

dividendspaidonconvertiblepreferredsharesandinterestoncapital

trustsecurities,asthesedistributionswouldnothavebeenpaidifthe

instrumentshadbeenconvertedatthebeginningoftheyear.Similarly,

weincreasetheaveragenumberofcommonsharesoutstandingbythe

numberofsharesthatwouldhavebeenissuedhadtheconversion

takenplaceatthebeginningoftheyearoronthedateofissue,iflater.
EmployeeStockOptions
Indeterminingdilutedearningspershare,weincreasetheaverage

numberofcommonsharesoutstandingbythenumberofsharesthat

wouldhavebeenissuedifallstockoptionswithastrikepricebelowthe

averagesharepricefortheyearhadbeenexercised.Whenperformance

targetshavenotbeenmet,affectedoptionsareexcludedfromthe

calculation.Wealsodecreasetheaveragenumberofcommonshares

outstandingbythenumberofourcommonsharesthatwecouldhave

repurchasedifwehadusedtheproceedsfromtheexerciseofstock

optionstorepurchasethemontheopenmarketattheaverageshare

pricefortheyear.Wedonotadjustforstockoptionswithastrikeprice

abovetheaveragesharepricefortheyearbecauseincludingthem

wouldincreaseourearningspershare,notdiluteit.
DilutedEarningsperShare
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
201420132012
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
4,1574,0103,946
Averagenumberofcommonsharesoutstanding(inthousands)
645,860648,476644,407
Convertibleshares
––3,040
Stockoptionspotentiallyexercisable
(1)10,83210,6566,353
Commonsharespotentiallyrepurchased
(8,217)(9,326)(5,185)
Averagedilutednumberofcommonsharesoutstanding(inthousands)
648,475649,806648,615
Dilutedearningspershare(Canadian$)
6.416.176.10
(1)Incomputingdilutedearningspershare,weexcludedaveragestockoptionsoutstandingof1,734,932,2,677,737and6,226,858withweighted-ave
rageexercisepricesof$235.07,$201.93and
$132.63fortheyearsendedOctober31,2014,2013and2012,respectively,astheaveragesharepricefortheperioddidnotexceedtheexerciseprice.
Note27:OperatingandGeographicSegmentation
OperatingGroups
Weconductourbusinessthroughthreeoperatinggroups,eachofwhich

hasadistinctmandate.Wedetermineouroperatinggroupsbasedon

ourmanagementstructureandthereforethesegroups,andresults

attributedtothem,maynotbecomparablewiththoseofotherfinancial

servicescompanies.Weevaluatetheperformanceofourgroupsusing

reportedandadjustedmeasuressuchasnetincome,revenuegrowth,

returnonequity,andnon-interestexpense-to-revenue(productivity)

ratio,aswellasoperatingleverage.
PersonalandCommercialBanking
PersonalandCommercialBanking(“P&C”)iscomprisedoftwooperating

segments:CanadianPersonalandCommercialBankingandU.S.Personal

andCommercialBanking.
CanadianPersonalandCommercialBanking
CanadianPersonalandCommercialBanking(“CanadianP&C”)providesa

fullrangeoffinancialproductsandservicestomorethansevenmillion

customersastheydobusinesswithusthroughtheirchannelofchoice:

inourbranches,ontheirmobiledevices,online,overthetelephoneand

throughourautomatedbankingmachines.PersonalBankingprovides

financialsolutionsforeverydaybanking,financing,investing,creditcard

andcreditorinsuranceneeds.Commercialbankingprovidesoursmall
businessandcommercialbankingcustomerswithabroadsuiteof

integratedcommercialandcapitalmarketproducts,aswellasfinancial

advisoryservices.
U.S.PersonalandCommercialBanking
U.S.PersonalandCommercialBanking(“U.S.P&C”)offersabroadrange

ofproductsandservices.Ourretailandsmallandmid-sizedbusiness

bankingcustomersareservedthroughourbranches,contactcentres,

onlineandmobilebankingplatformsandABMsacrosseightstates.
WealthManagement
BMO’sgroupofwealthmanagementbusinessesservesafullrangeof

clientsegmentsfrommainstreamtoultrahighnetworthand

institutional,withabroadofferingofwealthmanagementproductsand

servicesincludinginsuranceproducts.WealthManagement(“WM”)isa

globalbusinesswithanactivepresenceinmarketsacrossCanada,the

UnitedStates,EuropeandAsia.
BMOCapitalMarkets
BMOCapitalMarkets(“BMOCM”)isaNorthAmerican-basedfinancial

servicesproviderofferingacompleterangeofproductsandservicesto

corporate,institutionalandgovernmentclients.ThroughourInvestment
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
173NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
andCorporateBankingandTradingProductslinesofbusinesswe
operatein29locationsaroundtheworld,including16officesin

NorthAmerica.
CorporateServices
CorporateServicesconsistsofCorporateUnitsandTechnologyand

Operations(“T&O”).CorporateUnitsprovideenterprise-wideexpertise

andgovernancesupportinavarietyofareas,includingstrategic

planning,riskmanagement,finance,legalandcompliance,marketing,

communicationsandhumanresources.T&Omanages,maintainsand

providesgovernanceoverinformationtechnology,operationsservices,

realestateandsourcingforBMOFinancialGroup.
ThecostsofprovidingtheseCorporateUnitsandT&Oservicesare
largelytransferredtothethreeclientoperatinggroups(P&C,WMand

BMOCM),andonlyrelativelyminoramountsareretainedinCorporate

Servicesresults.Assuch,CorporateServicesadjustedoperatingresults

largelyreflecttheimpactofcertainasset-liabilitymanagement

activities,theeliminationoftaxableequivalentadjustments,theresults

fromcertainimpairedrealestatesecuredassets,purchasedloan

accountingimpacts,certainacquisitionintegrationcosts,restructuring

costs,run-offstructuredcreditactivitiesandadjustmentstothe

collectiveallowanceforcreditlosses.
BasisofPresentation
Theresultsoftheseoperatinggroupsarebasedonourinternalfinancial

reportingsystems.Theaccountingpoliciesusedinthesesegmentsare

generallyconsistentwiththosefollowedinthepreparationofour

consolidatedfinancialstatements,asdisclosedinNote1andthroughout

theconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Anotableaccounting

measurementdifferenceisthetaxableequivalentbasisadjustmentas

describedbelow.
Periodically,certainbusinesslinesandunitswithinthebusiness
linesaretransferredbetweenclientandcorporatesupportgroupsto

morecloselyalignthebank’sorganizationalstructurewithitsstrategic

priorities.Inaddition,revenueandexpenseallocationsareupdatedto

moreaccuratelyalignwithcurrentexperience.Resultsforpriorperiods

arerestatedtoconformtothecurrentyear’spresentation.
TaxableEquivalentBasis
Weanalyzenetinterestincomeonataxableequivalentbasis(“teb”)at

theoperatinggrouplevel.Thisbasisincludesanadjustmentthat

increasesreportedrevenuesandthereportedprovisionforincometaxes

byanamountthatwouldraiserevenuesoncertaintax-exemptitemsto

alevelthatincurstaxatthestatutoryrate.Theoperatinggroups’teb

adjustmentsareeliminatedinCorporateServices.
Inter-GroupAllocations
Variousestimatesandallocationmethodologiesareusedinthe

preparationoftheoperatinggroups’financialinformation.Weallocate

expensesdirectlyrelatedtoearningrevenuetothegroupsthatearned

therelatedrevenue.Expensesnotdirectlyrelatedtoearningrevenue,

suchasoverheadexpenses,areallocatedtooperatinggroupsusing

allocationformulasappliedonaconsistentbasis.Operatinggroupnet

interestincomereflectsinternalfundingchargesandcreditsonthe

groups’assets,liabilitiesandcapital,atmarketrates,takingintoaccount

relevanttermsandcurrencyconsiderations.Theoffsetofthenetimpact

ofthesechargesandcreditsisreflectedinCorporateServices.
GeographicInformation
WeoperateprimarilyinCanadaandtheUnitedStatesbutwealsohave

operationsintheUnitedKingdom,Europe,theCaribbeanandAsia,

whicharegroupedinOthercountries.Weallocateourresultsby

geographicregionbasedonthelocationoftheunitresponsiblefor

managingtherelatedassets,liabilities,revenuesandexpenses,except

fortheconsolidatedprovisionforcreditlosses,whichisallocatedbased

uponthecountryofultimaterisk.
174BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesOurresultsandaverageassets,groupedbyoperatingsegmentandgeographicregion,areasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
CanadianP&CU.S.P&C
WealthManagementBMOCM
CorporateServices(1)TotalCanada
UnitedStatesOthercountries2014(2)Netinterestincome
4,7722,4885601,179(538)8,4615,4762,836149
Non-interestrevenue
1,7235693,2732,5451478,2575,4432,194620
TotalRevenue
6,4953,0573,8333,724(391)16,71810,9195,030769
Provisionforcreditlosses
541164(3)(18)(123)56153330(2)
Amortization1491731195225474742427944
Non-interestexpense
3,1111,8322,7152,30121510,1746,0233,657494
Incomebeforetaxesandnon-controllinginterestin
subsidiaries2,6948881,0021,389(737)5,2363,9391,064233
Provisionforincometaxes
680240217310(544)90367621710
Reportednetincome
2,0146487851,079(193)4,3333,263847223
Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
––
3–535654–2
NetIncomeattributabletobankshareholders
2,0146487821,079(246)4,2773,209847221
AverageAssets
190,67372,58424,980260,96244,729593,928370,060201,54222,326
(Canadian$inmillions)
CanadianP&CU.S.P&C
WealthManagementBMOCM
CorporateServices(1)TotalCanada
UnitedStatesOthercountries2013(2)Netinterestincome
4,5262,3275581,202648,6775,3833,22371
Non-interestrevenue
1,5805792,8902,1901477,3864,9012,093392
TotalRevenue
6,1062,9063,4483,39221116,06310,2845,316463
Provisionforcreditlosses
572223
3(36)(175)587654(65)(2)
Amortization144172814525169340627413
Non-interestexpense
2,9821,6972,2662,0395499,5335,7093,547277
Incomebeforetaxesandnon-controllinginterestin
subsidiaries2,4088141,0981,344(414)5,2503,5151,560175
Provisionforincometaxes
596233268300(342)1,055626434(5)
Reportednetincome
1,8125818301,044(72)4,1952,8891,126180
Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
––
––65655411–
NetIncomeattributabletobankshareholders
1,8125818301,044(137)4,1302,8351,115180
AverageAssets
177,62364,27722,143247,60943,779555,431345,340189,83920,252
(Canadian$inmillions)
CanadianP&CU.S.P&C
WealthManagementBMOCM
CorporateServices(1)TotalCanada
UnitedStatesOthercountries2012(2)Netinterestincome
4,4672,4055561,1643458,9375,3923,49649
Non-interestrevenue
1,5175892,3442,0854576,9924,5791,961452
TotalRevenue
5,9842,9942,9003,24980215,9299,9715,457501
Provisionforcreditlosses
613274226(151)764633134(3)
Amortization13518868392536833842927
Non-interestexpense
2,9081,7272,1471,9477239,4525,5873,635230
Incomebeforetaxesandnon-controllinginterestin
subsidiaries2,3288056631,257(23)5,0303,3671,396267
Provisionforincometaxes
579234136272(347)874523359(8)
Reportednetincome
1,7495715279853244,1562,8441,037275
Non-controllinginterestinsubsidiaries
––
1–73745519–
NetIncomeattributabletobankshareholders
1,7495715269852514,0822,7891,018275
AverageAssets
161,98561,53420,354251,56248,496543,931332,602190,74820,581
(1)CorporateServicesincludesTechnologyandOperations.
(2)Operatinggroupsreportonataxableequivalentbasis–seeBasisofPresentationsection.
Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenrestatedasaresultoftheadoptionofnewaccountingprinciples–seeNote1.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
175NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Note28:SignificantSubsidiaries
AsatOctober31,2014,thebank,eitherdirectlyorindirectlythroughitssubsidiaries,ownedmorethan50%oftheissuedandoutstandingvoting
securitiesofeachofthefollowingsignificantoperatingsubsidiaries.Thebankalso,eitherdirectlyorindirectlythroughitssubsidiaries,ownedmore

than50%oftheissuedandoutstandingvotingsecuritiesofvariousfinancingentities,non-operatingsubsidiaries,holdingcompaniesandSEsthatare

sponsoredbythebankforvariouspurposes.Neitherthesesubsidiaries,norentitiesinwhichthebankholds50%orlessoftheissuedand

outstandingvotingsecurities,arespecificallyreferencedinthetablebelow.
Headorprincipaloffice
Bookvalueofsharesownedbythebank
(Canadian$inmillions)
BankofMontrealAssessoriaeServiçosLtda.
RiodeJaneiro,Brazil
–BankofMontrealCapitalMarkets(Holdings)Limited
London,England
208BMOCapitalMarketsLimited
London,England
PyrfordInternationalLimited
London,England
BankofMontreal(China)Co.Ltd.
Beijing,China
371BankofMontrealFinanceLtd.
Toronto,Canada
31BankofMontrealHoldingInc.andsubsidiaries,including:
Calgary,Canada
25,347BMOInvestmentsLimited
Hamilton,Bermuda
BMOReinsuranceLimited
St.Michaels,Barbados
BMONesbittBurnsHoldingsCorporation
Toronto,Canada
BMONesbittBurnsInc.
Toronto,Canada
BMOHarrisInvestmentManagementInc.
Toronto,Canada
BMOAssetManagementInc.
Toronto,Canada
BMOCapitalMarketsRealEstateInc.
Toronto,Canada
BMONesbittBurnsSecuritiesLtd.
Toronto,Canada
BMOPrivateEquity(Canada)Inc.andsubsidiaries
Toronto,Canada
BMOAdvisorsPrivateLimited(India)
Gurgaon,India
BMONesbittBurnsFinancialServicesInc.
Toronto,Canada
BMOGroupRetirementServicesInc.
Toronto,Canada
BMOHoldingFinance,LLC
Wilmington,UnitedStates
BMOInvestmentsInc.andsubsidiary
Toronto,Canada
BMOInvestorLineInc.
Toronto,Canada
BMOServiceInc.
Toronto,Canada
BankofMontrealIrelandplc
Dublin,Ireland
776BankofMontrealMortgageCorporation
Calgary,Canada
2,483BMOMortgageCorp.
Vancouver,Canada
BMRIRealtyInvestments
Toronto,Canada
BayStreetHoldings,LLC
Chicago,UnitedStates
20BMOFinancialCorp.
Chicago,UnitedStates
15,481BMOAssetManagementCorp.andsubsidiaries
Chicago,UnitedStates
BMOCapitalMarketsCorp.
NewYork,UnitedStates
BMOCapitalMarketsGKSTInc.
Chicago,UnitedStates
BMODelawareTrustCompany
Greenville,UnitedStates
BMOGlobalCapitalSolutions,Inc.
Chicago,UnitedStates
BMOHarrisBankNationalAssociationandsubsidiaries
Chicago,UnitedStates
BMOHarrisCentralNationalAssociation
Roselle,UnitedStates
BMOHarrisFinancialAdvisors,Inc.
Chicago,UnitedStates
BMOHarrisFinancing,Inc.andsubsidiaries
Chicago,UnitedStates
BMOInvestmentFinancing,Inc.
Wilmington,UnitedStates
BMOPrivateEquity(U.S.),Inc.andsubsidiaries
Chicago,UnitedStates
CTCmyCFO,LLC
PaloAlto,UnitedStates
HarrisTradeServicesLimited
HongKong,China
BMOInvestmentDistributorsLLC(f.k.aM&IDistributors,LLC)
Milwaukee,UnitedStates
pspsHoldings,LLCandsubsidiary
Chicago,UnitedStates
StokerOstlerWealthAdvisors,Inc.
Scottsdale,UnitedStates
Sullivan,Bruyette,Speros&Blayney,Inc.
McLean,UnitedStates
BMOGlobalAssetManagement(Europe)Limited
London,England
162F&CAssetManagementplcandsubsidiaries,including:
London,England
F&CAssetManagementAsiaLtd.
HongKong,China
F&CManagementLuxembourgSA
LuxembourgF&CNetherlandsBV
Amsterdam,Netherlands
F&CPortugalSA
Lisbon,Portugal
F&CREITAssetManagementLLPandsubsidiaries
London,England
BMOLifeInsuranceCompany
Toronto,Canada
799BMOLifeHoldings(Canada),ULC
Halifax,Canada
BMOLifeAssuranceCompany
Toronto,Canada
BMOTrustCompany
Toronto,Canada
948LGM(Bermuda)Limited
Hamilton,Bermuda
50LloydGeorgeInvestmentManagement(Bermuda)Limited
Hamilton,Bermuda
BMOGlobalAssetManagement(Asia)Limited
HongKong,China
LGMInvestmentsLimited(f.k.aLloydGeorgeManagement(Europe)Limited)
London,England
LloydGeorgeManagement(Singapore)PteLtd.
Singapore176BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesSignificantRestrictions
Ourabilitytotransferfundsbetweenoursubsidiariesmayberestricted
bystatutory,contractual,capitalandregulatoryrequirements.

Restrictionsinclude:
‰Assetspledgedassecurityforvariousliabilitiesweincur.Referto

Note30fordetails.
‰Assetsofourconsolidatedstructuredentitiesthatareheldforthe

benefitofthenoteholders.RefertoNote9fordetails.
‰Assetsheldbyourinsurancesubsidiaries.RefertoNote14fordetails.
‰Regulatoryandstatutoryrequirementsthatreflectcapitalandliquidity

requirements.Note29:RelatedPartyTransactions
Relatedpartiesincludesubsidiaries,associates,jointventures,key

managementpersonnelandemployeefuturebenefitplans.Key

managementpersonnelaredefinedasthosepersonshavingauthority

andresponsibilityforplanning,directingand/orcontrollingtheactivities

ofanentity,beingthedirectorsandtenmostseniorexecutivesin2014

(ninein2013).
KeyManagementPersonnelCompensation
Thefollowingtablepresentsthecompensationofkeymanagement

personnel.(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Basesalaryandincentives
1815Share-basedpayments
(1)2122Totalkeymanagementpersonnelcompensation
3937Excludedfromthetableabovearepost-employmentbenefitsof$2millionin2014and2013.
Terminationbenefitsandotherlong-termbenefitswere$nilin2014and2013.
(1)Amountsincludedinshare-basedpaymentsarethefairvaluesofawardsgrantedinthe
year.Weprovidecertainbankingservicesandloanstoourkeymanagement
personnelatmarkettermsandconditions.Loanstokeymanagement

personneltotalled$5millionand$3millionasatOctober31,2014and

2013,respectively.Interestontheseloanswaslessthan$1millionin

theyearsendedOctober31,2014and2013.Noneoftheloanstokey

managementpersonnelareatpreferredrates.
DeferredStockUnits
MembersofourBoardofDirectorsarerequiredtotake100%oftheir

annualretainersandotherfeesintheformofeitherourcommonshares

(purchasedontheopenmarket)ordeferredstockunitsuntilsuchtime

asthedirectors’shareholdings(includingdeferredstockunits)are
greaterthaneighttimestheirannualcashretainersasdirectors.

Directorsreceiveaspecifiedamountoftheirannualdirectorretainerfee

indeferredstockunits.Theymayelecttotakeallorpartofthe

remainderofsuchretainerfeeandotherremunerationincash,orin

additionalcommonsharesordeferredstockunits.
Deferredstockunitsareadjustedtoreflectreinvesteddividends
andchangesinthemarketvalueofourcommonshares.Thevalueof

thesedeferredstockunitsisonlypaidafterterminationofserviceasa

director.Liabilitiesrelatedtotheseplansarerecordedinotherliabilitiesin
ourConsolidatedBalanceSheetandtotalled$44millionand$37million

asatOctober31,2014and2013,respectively.
MembersoftheBoardofDirectorsofourwhollyownedsubsidiary,
BMOFinancialCorp.,arerequiredtotakeaspecifiedminimumamount

oftheirannualretainersandotherfeesintheformofdeferred

stockunits.
JointVenturesandAssociates
Weprovidebankingservicestoourjointventuresandassociatesonthe

sametermsthatweoffertoourcustomersfortheseservices.
Ourinvestmentinajointventureofwhichweown50%totalled
$216millionasatOctober31,2014($177millionin2013).
Ourinvestmentsinassociatesoverwhichweexertsignificant
influencetotalled$286millionasatOctober31,2014($225million

in2013).
EmployeesAselectsuiteofcustomerloanandmortgageproductsisofferedto

employeesatratesnormallyaccordedtopreferredcustomers.Wealso

offeremployeesafee-basedsubsidyonannualcreditcardfees.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
177NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Note30:ProvisionsandContingentLiabilities
(a)Provisions
Provisionsarerecognizedwhenwehaveanobligationasaresultof
pastevents,suchascontractualcommitments,legalorother

obligations.Werecognizeasaprovisionthebestestimateofthe

amountrequiredtosettletheobligationsasofthebalancesheetdate,

takingintoaccounttherisksanduncertaintiessurroundingthe

obligations.Contingentliabilitiesarepotentialobligationsthatmayarisefrom
pastevents,theexistenceofwhichwillonlybeconfirmedbythe

occurrenceornon-occurrenceofoneormorefutureeventsnotwholly

withinourcontrol.Contingentliabilitiesaredisclosedbelow.
Changesintheprovisionbalanceduringtheyearwereasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Balanceatbeginningofyear
209237Additionalprovisions/increaseinprovisions
177138Provisionsutilized
(77)(150)Amountsreversed
(25)(15)Exchangedifferencesandothermovements
(3)(1)Balanceatendofyear
281209(b)LegalProceedings
BMONesbittBurnsInc.,anindirectsubsidiaryofthebank,hasbeen
namedasadefendantinseveralindividualactionsandproposedclass

actionsinCanadaandtheUnitedStatesbroughtonbehalfof

shareholdersofBre-XMineralsLtd.Manyoftheactionshavebeen

resolvedastoBMONesbittBurnsInc.,includingtwoduringtheyear

endedOctober31,2010.Managementbelievesthattherearestrong

defensestotheremainingclaimsandwillvigorouslydefendthem.
Thebankanditssubsidiariesarepartytootherlegalproceedings,
includingregulatoryinvestigations,intheordinarycourseofbusiness.

Whilethereisinherentdifficultyinpredictingtheoutcomeofthese

otherproceedings,managementdoesnotexpecttheoutcomeofanyof

theseproceedings,individuallyorintheaggregate,tohaveamaterial

adverseeffectontheconsolidatedfinancialpositionortheresultsof

operationsofthebank.
(c)Collateral
Whenenteringintotradingactivitiessuchaspurchasesunderresale

agreements,securitiesborrowingandlendingactivitiesorfinancingand

derivativetransactions,werequireourcounterpartiestoprovideuswith

collateralthatwillprotectusfromlossesintheeventofthe

counterparty’sdefault.Thefairvalueofcollateralthatwearepermitted

tosellorrepledge(intheabsenceofdefaultbytheownerofthe

collateral)was$52,602millionasatOctober31,2014($38,606million

in2013).
Thefairvalueofcollateralthatwehavesoldorrepledgedwas
$35,451millionasatOctober31,2014($24,795millionin2013).
Collateraltransactions(receivedorpledged)aretypicallyconducted
undertermsthatareusualandcustomaryinstandardtradingactivities.

Ifthereisnodefault,thesecuritiesortheirequivalentsmustbe

returnedtoorreturnedbythecounterpartyattheendofthecontract.
(d)PledgedAssets
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,wepledgeassetsassecurityfor

variousliabilitiesthatweincur.Thefollowingtablessummarizeour

pledgedassets,towhomtheyarepledgedandinrelationtowhat

activity:(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Cashandsecurities
IssuedorguaranteedbyCanada
7,0778,917IssuedorguaranteedbyaCanadianprovince,
municipalityorschoolcorporation
6,0004,749Other40,16228,421Mortgages,securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunder
resaleagreementsandother
59,21753,220Totalassetspledged
(1)112,456
95,307ExcludesrestrictedcashresourcesdisclosedinNote2.
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Assetspledgedto:
Clearingsystems,paymentsystemsanddepositories
5401,033Foreigngovernmentsandcentralbanks
22Assetspledgedinrelationto:

Obligationsrelatedtosecuritiessoldunder
repurchaseagreements
25,49217,121Securitiesborrowingandlending
32,79223,819Derivativestransactions
8,6829,676Securitization26,03126,435Coveredbonds
7,1117,604Other11,8069,617Totalassetspledged
(1)112,456
95,307ExcludescashpledgedwithcentralbanksdisclosedasrestrictedcashinNote2.
ExcludescollateralreceivedthathasbeensoldorrepledgedasdisclosedintheCollateralsection

ofthisnote.
(1)Excludesrehypothecatedassetsof$4,382million($4,500millionin2013)pledgedin
relationtosecuritiesborrowingtransactions.
(e)OtherCommitments
Asaparticipantinmerchantbankingactivities,weenterinto
commitmentstofundexternalprivateequityfundsandinvestmentsin

equityanddebtsecuritiesatmarketvalueatthetimethecommitments

aredrawn.Inaddition,weactasunderwriterforcertainnewissuances

underwhichwealoneortogetherwithasyndicateoffinancial

institutionspurchasethenewissueforresaletoinvestors.Inconnection

withtheseactivities,ourrelatedcommitmentswere$2,261millionas

atOctober31,2014($4,280millionin2013).
Note31:FairValueofFinancialInstruments
Werecordtradingassetsandliabilities,derivatives,available-for-sale

securitiesandsecuritiessoldbutnotyetpurchasedatfairvalue,and

othernon-tradingassetsandliabilitiesatamortizedcostlessallowances

orwrite-downsforimpairment.Thefairvaluespresentedinthisnote

arebasedupontheamountsestimatedforindividualassetsand

liabilitiesanddonotincludeanestimateofthefairvalueofanyofthe

legalentitiesorunderlyingoperationsthatcompriseourbusiness.
Fairvaluerepresentstheamountthatwouldbereceivedtosellan
assetorpaidtotransferaliabilityinanorderlytransactionbetween

willingmarketparticipantsatthemeasurementdate(i.e.anexitprice).

Thefairvalueamountsdisclosedrepresentpoint-in-timeestimatesthat

maychangeinsubsequentreportingperiodsduetochangesinmarket

conditionsorotherfactors.Somefinancialinstrumentsarenottypically

exchangeableorexchangedandthereforeitisdifficulttodetermine
178BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
Notestheirfairvalue.Wherethereisnoquotedmarketprice,wedetermine
fairvalueusingmanagement’sbestestimatesbasedonarangeof

valuationtechniquesandassumptions;sincetheseinvolveuncertainties,

thefairvaluesmaynotberealizedinanactualsaleorimmediate

settlementoftheinstruments.
GovernanceOvertheDeterminationofFairValue
Seniorexecutiveoversightofourvaluationprocessesisprovided

throughvariousvaluationandriskcommittees.Inordertoensurethat

allfinancialinstrumentscarriedatfairvaluearereasonablymeasured

forriskmanagementandfinancialreportingpurposes,wehave

establishedgovernancestructuresandcontrols,suchasmodelvalidation

andapproval,independentpriceverification(IPV)andprofitandloss

attributionanalysis(PAA),consistentwithindustrypractice.These

controlsareappliedindependentlyoftherelevantoperatinggroups.
Weestablishandregularlyupdatevaluationmethodologiesforeach
financialinstrumentthatisrequiredtobemeasuredatfairvalue.The

applicationofvaluationmodelsforproductsorportfoliosissubjectto

independentapprovaltoensureonlyvalidatedmodelsareused.The

impactofknownlimitationsofmodelsanddatainputsisalsomonitored

onanongoingbasis.IPVisaprocessthatregularlyandindependently

verifiestheaccuracyandappropriatenessofmarketpricesormodel

inputsusedinthevaluationoffinancialinstruments.Thisprocess

assessesfairvaluesusingavarietyofdifferentapproachestoverifyand

validatethevaluations.PAAisadailyprocessusedbymanagementto

identifyandexplainchangesinfairvaluepositionsacrossalloperating

linesofbusiness.Thisprocessworksinconcertwithotherprocessesto

ensurethatthefairvaluesbeingreportedarereasonable.
SecuritiesFortradedsecurities,quotedmarketvalueisconsideredtobefairvalue.

Quotedmarketvalueisbasedonbidprices.Securitiesforwhichno

activemarketexistsarevaluedusingallreasonablyavailablemarket

information.Ourfairvaluemethodologiesaredescribedbelow.
GovernmentSecurities
Thefairvalueofgovernmentissuedorguaranteeddebtsecuritiesin

activemarketsisdeterminedbyreferencetorecenttransactionprices,

brokerquotesorthird-partyvendorprices.Thefairvaluesofsecurities

thatarenottradedinanactivemarketaremodelledusingimplied

yieldsderivedfromthepricesofsimilaractivelytradedgovernment

securitiesandobservablespreads.Marketinputstothemodelinclude

coupon,maturityandduration.
Mortgage-BackedSecuritiesandCollateralizedMortgageObligations
Thefairvalueofmortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralized

mortgageobligationsisdeterminedbyindependentpricesobtained

fromthird-partyvendors,brokerquotesandrelevantmarketindices,as

applicable.Ifsuchpricesarenotavailable,fairvalueisdeterminedusing

cashflowmodelsthatmakemaximumuseofobservablemarketinputs

orbenchmarkpricesforsimilarinstruments.Mortgage-backedsecurity

andcollateralizedmortgageobligationvaluationassumptionsinclude

discountrates,expectedprepayments,creditspreadsandrecoveries.
CorporateDebtSecurities
Thefairvalueofcorporatedebtsecuritiesisdeterminedusingprices

observedinthemostrecentlyexecutedtransactions.Whenobservable

pricequotationsarenotavailable,fairvalueisdeterminedbasedon

discountedcashflowmodelsusingdiscountingcurvesandspreads

observedfromindependentdealers,brokersandmulti-contributor

pricingsources.
CorporateEquitySecurities
Thefairvalueofequitysecuritiesisbasedonquotedpricesinactive

markets,whereavailable.Wherequotedpricesinactivemarketsare
notreadilyavailable,fairvalueisdeterminedbasedonquotedmarket

pricesforsimilarsecuritiesorthroughvaluationtechniques,including

discountedcashflowanalysisandmultiplesofearnings.
PrivatelyIssuedSecurities
Privatelyissueddebtandequitysecuritiesarevaluedusingrecentprices

observedinmarkettransactions,whereavailable.Otherwise,fairvalue

isderivedfromvaluationmodelsusingamarketorincomeapproach.

Thesemodelsconsidervariousfactors,includingprojectedcashflows,

earnings,revenueandotherthird-partyevidence,asavailable.Thefair

valueoflimitedpartnershipinvestmentsisbaseduponnetassetvalues

publishedbythird-partyfundmanagers.
Pricesfrombrokersandmulti-contributorpricingsourcesare
corroboratedaspartofourindependentreviewprocess,whichmay

includeusingvaluationtechniquesorobtainingconsensusorcomposite

pricesfromotherpricingservices.Wevalidatetheestimatesoffair

valuebyindependentlyobtainingmultiplequotesforexternalmarket

pricesandinputvalues.Wereviewtheapproachtakenbythird-party

vendorstoensurethatthevendoremploysavaluationmodelwhich

maximizestheuseofobservableinputssuchasbenchmarkyields,bid-

askspreads,underlyingcollateral,weighted-averagetermstomaturity

andprepaymentrateassumptions.Fairvalueestimatesfrominternal

valuationtechniquesareverified,wherepossible,byreferencetoprices

obtainedfromthird-partyvendors.
LoansIndeterminingthefairvalueofourfixedrateandfloatingrate

performingloans,wediscounttheremainingcontractualcashflows,

adjustedforestimatedprepayment,atmarketinterestratescurrently

offeredforloanswithsimilarterms.
Thevalueofourloanbalancesdeterminedusingthisapproachis
furtheradjustedbyacreditmarkthatrepresentsanestimateofthe

expectedcreditlossesinourloanportfolio.
DerivativeInstruments
Anumberofvaluationtechniquesareemployedtoestimatefairvalue,

includingdiscountedcashflowanalysis,theBlack-Scholesmodel,Monte

Carlosimulationandotheracceptedmarketmodels.Thesevetted

modelsincorporatecurrentmarketmeasuresforinterestrates,currency

exchangerates,equityandcommoditypricesandindices,credit

spreads,recoveryrates,correspondingmarketvolatilitylevels,spot

prices,correlationlevelsandothermarket-basedpricingfactors.Option

impliedvolatilities,aninputintomanyvaluationmodels,areeither

obtaineddirectlyfrommarketsourcesorcalculatedfrommarketprices.

Multi-contributorpricingsourcesareusedwhereverpossible.
Indeterminingthefairvalueofcomplexandcustomized
derivatives,weconsiderallreasonablyavailableinformation,including

dealerandbrokerquotations,multi-contributorpricingsourcesandany

relevantobservablemarketinputs.Ourmodelcalculatesfairvaluebased

oninputsspecifictothetypeofcontract,whichmayincludestock

prices,correlationformultipleassets,interestrates,foreignexchange

rates,yieldcurvesandvolatilities.
Wecalculateacreditvaluationadjustment(“CVA”)torecognizethe
riskthatanygivenderivativecounterpartymaynotultimatelybeableto

fulfillitsobligations.TheCVAisderivedfrommarket-observedcredit

spreadsorproxycreditspreadsandourassessmentofthenet

counterpartycreditriskexposure,takingintoaccountcreditmitigants

suchascollateral,masternettingagreementsandsettlementsthrough

clearinghouses.Wealsocalculateafundingvaluationadjustment

(“FVA”)torecognizetheimplicitfundingcostsassociatedwithoverthe

counterderivativepositions.TheFVAisdeterminedbasedonreference

tomarketfundingspreads.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
179NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
DepositsIndeterminingthefairvalueofourdeposits,weincorporatethe
followingassumptions:
‰Forfixedrate,fixedmaturitydeposits,wediscounttheremaining

contractualcashflowsforthesedeposits,adjustedforexpected

redemptions,atmarketinterestratescurrentlyofferedfordeposits

withsimilartermsandrisks.
‰Forfixedratedepositswithnodefinedmaturities,weconsiderfair

valuetoequalcarryingvalue,basedoncarryingvaluebeing

equivalenttotheamountpayableonthereportingdate.
‰Forfloatingratedeposits,changesininterestrateshaveminimal

impactonfairvaluesincedepositsre-pricetomarketfrequently.On

thatbasis,fairvalueisassumedtoequalcarryingvalue.
Aportionofourstructurednoteliabilitiesthathavecouponsor

repaymenttermslinkedtotheperformanceofinterestrates,foreign

currencies,commoditiesorequitysecuritieshavebeendesignatedat

fairvaluethroughprofitorloss.Thefairvalueofthesestructurednotes

isestimatedusinginternallyvettedvaluationmodelsandincorporates

observablemarketpricesforidenticalorcomparablesecurities,and

otherinputssuchasinterestrateyieldcurves,optionvolatilitiesand

foreignexchangerates,whereappropriate.Whereobservablepricesor

inputsarenotavailable,managementjudgmentisrequiredto

determinethefairvaluebyassessingotherrelevantsourcesof

information,suchashistoricaldataandproxyinformationfromsimilar

transactions.SecuritiesSoldButNotYetPurchased
Thefairvalueoftheseobligationsisbasedonthefairvalueofthe

underlyingsecurities,whichcanincludeequityordebtsecurities.As

theseobligationsarefullycollateralized,themethodusedtodetermine

fairvaluewouldbethesameasthatusedfortherelevantunderlying

equityordebtsecurities.
SecuritiesPurchasedUnderResaleAgreements
andSecuritiesSoldUnderRepurchaseAgreements
Thefairvalueoftheseagreementsisdeterminedusingastandard
discountedcashflowmodel.Inputstothemodelincludecontractual

cashflowsandcollateralfundingspreads.
SecuritizationLiabilities
Thedeterminationofthefairvalueofsecuritizationliabilities,recorded

inotherliabilities,isbasedonquotedmarketpricesorquotedmarket

pricesforsimilarfinancialinstruments,whereavailable.Wherequoted

pricesarenotavailable,fairvalueisdeterminedusingvaluation

techniquesthatmaximizetheuseofobservableinputs,aswellas

assumptionssuchasdiscountedcashflows.
SubordinatedDebtandCapitalTrustSecurities
Thefairvalueofoursubordinateddebtandcapitaltrustsecuritiesis

determinedbyreferringtocurrentmarketpricesforsimilarinstruments.
FinancialInstrumentswithaCarryingValue
ApproximatingFairValue
Short-termFinancialInstruments
Carryingvalueisareasonableestimateoffairvalueforcertainfinancial
assetsandliabilitiesduetotheirpredominantlyshort-termnature,such

asinterestbearingdepositswithbanks,securitiesborrowed,customers’

liabilityunderacceptances,otherassets,acceptances,securitieslentand

certainotherliabilities.
OtherFinancialInstruments
Carryingvalueisassumedtobeareasonableestimateoffairvaluefor

ourcashandcashequivalentsandcertainothersecurities.
Certainassets,includingpremisesandequipment,goodwilland
intangibleassetsaswellasshareholders’equity,arenotconsidered

financialinstrumentsandthereforenofairvaluehasbeendeterminedfor

theseitems.
Forlonger-termfinancialinstrumentswithinotherliabilities,fair
valueisdeterminedasthepresentvalueofcontractualcashflowsusing

discountratesatwhichliabilitieswithsimilarremainingmaturitiescould

beissuedasatthebalancesheetdate.
FairValueofFinancialInstrumentsNotCarriedatFairValueontheBalanceSheet
Setoutinthefollowingtablesaretheamountsthatwouldbereportedifallfinancialassetsandliabilitiesnotcurrentlycarriedatfairvaluewere

reportedattheirfairvalues.
FortheyearendedOctober31,2014
(Canadian$inmillions)
2014CarryingvalueFairvalueValuedusing
quotedmarket
pricesValuedusing
models(with
observableinputs)
Valuedusing
models(without
observableinputs)
SecuritiesHeldtomaturity
10,34410,4908389,652–
Other(1)5101,829
––1,82910,85412,319
8389,6521,829Securitiespurchasedunderresaleagreements
(2)33,14133,095
–33,095
–LoansResidentialmortgages
101,013101,273
––101,273
Consumerinstalmentandotherpersonal
64,14363,280
––63,280
Creditcards
7,9727,706
––7,706Businessesandgovernments
120,766119,399
––119,399
293,894291,658
––291,658
Deposits393,088393,242
–393,242
–Securitiessoldunderrepurchaseagreements
(3)25,48525,505
–25,505
–Otherliabilities
(4)23,54623,927
–23,927
–Subordinateddebt
4,9135,192
–5,192–Thistableexcludesfinancialinstrumentswithacarryingvalueapproximatingfairvaluesuchas
cashandcashequivalents,interestbearingdepositswithbanks,securitiesborrowed,customers’

liabilitiesunderacceptances,otherassets,acceptances,securitieslentandcertainother

liabilities.(1)Excludedfromothersecuritiesis$477millionofsecuritiesrelatedtoourmerchantbanking
businessthatarecarriedatfairvalueonthebalancesheet.
(2)Excludes$20,414millionofsecuritiesborrowedforwhichcarryingvalueapproximatesfair
value.(3)Excludes$14,210millionofsecuritieslentforwhichcarryingvalueapproximatesfairvalue.

(4)OtherliabilitiesincludesecuritizationandSEliabilitiesandcertainotherliabilitiesof
subsidiaries,otherthandeposits.
180BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesFortheyearendedOctober31,2013
(Canadian$inmillions)
2013CarryingvalueFairvalueValuedusing
quotedmarket
pricesValuedusing
models(with
observableinputs)
Valuedusing
models(without
observableinputs)
SecuritiesHeldtomaturity6,0326,0416405,401–
Other(1)4111,921
––1,9216,4437,962640
5,4011,921Securitiespurchasedunderresaleagreements
(2)23,17422,998
–22,998
–LoansResidentialmortgages
96,39295,944
––95,944
Consumerinstalmentandotherpersonal
63,64062,770
––62,770
Creditcards
7,8707,619
––7,619Businessesandgovernments
104,585103,268
––103,268
272,487269,601
––269,601
Deposits368,369368,521
–368,521
–Securitiessoldunderrepurchaseagreements
(3)17,21517,324
–17,324
–Otherliabilities
(4)22,89623,182
–23,182
–Subordinateddebt
3,9964,217
–4,217–Thistableexcludesfinancialinstrumentswithacarryingvalueapproximatingfairvaluesuchas
cashandcashequivalents,interestbearingdepositswithbanks,securitiesborrowed,customers’

liabilitiesunderacceptances,otherassets,acceptances,securitieslentandcertainother

liabilities.(1)Excludedfromothersecuritiesis$488millionofsecuritiesrelatedtoourmerchantbanking
businessthatarecarriedatfairvalueonthebalancesheet.
(2)Excludes$16,625millionofsecuritiesborrowedforwhichcarryingvalueapproximatesfair
value.(3)Excludes$11,669millionofsecuritieslentforwhichcarryingvalueapproximatesfairvalue.

(4)OtherliabilitiesincludesecuritizationandSEliabilitiesandcertainotherliabilitiesof
subsidiaries,otherthandeposits.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
181NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
FairValueHierarchy
Weuseafairvaluehierarchytocategorizefinancialinstruments
accordingtotheinputsweuseinvaluationtechniquestomeasurefair

value.Theextentofouruseofactivelyquotedmarketprices(Level1),

internalmodelsusingobservablemarketinformationasinputs(Level2)
andinternalmodelswithoutobservablemarketinformationasinputs

(Level3)inthevaluationofsecurities,fairvalueliabilities,derivative

assetsandderivativeliabilitieswasasfollows:
(Canadian$inmillions)
20142013Valuedusing
quotedmarket
pricesValuedusing
models(with
observableinputs)Valuedusing
models(without
observableinputs)Valuedusing
quotedmarket
pricesValuedusing
models(with
observableinputs)Valuedusing
models(without
observableinputs)TradingSecurities
Issuedorguaranteedby:
Canadianfederalgovernment
8,7371,725
–8,5692,255
–Canadianprovincialandmunicipalgovernments
3,1344,062
–1,5784,133
–U.S.federalgovernment
5,725440
–5,903–
–U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies
–626
85–681
78Othergovernments
12499
–1324
–Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations
–702
––652
–Corporatedebt
1,9749,319538
2,0328,233822
Corporateequity
37,22110,511
–28,07312,014
–56,91527,484623
46,28727,972900
Available-for-SaleSecurities

Issuedorguaranteedby:
Canadianfederalgovernment
4,9465,555
–8,2604,855
–Canadianprovincialandmunicipalgovernments
1,6792,425
–1,8811,817
–U.S.federalgovernment
1,093––4,660–
–U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies
–5,814
135,388
1Othergovernments
2,1363,996
–1,6974,466
–Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralizedmortgageobligations
–9,949
––8,805
–Corporatedebt
5,6871,971
84,2836,004
30Corporateequity
4221461,138
460151949
15,96329,8561,147
21,24431,486980
OtherSecurities
10–467
––488
FairValueLiabilities

Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchased
23,6153,733
–20,0242,422
–Structurednoteliabilitiesandothernoteliabilities
–7,785
––6,439
–Annuityliabilities
–407
––329
–23,61511,925
–20,0249,190
–DerivativeAssets

Interestratecontracts
2318,241
–722,215
–Foreignexchangecontracts
3212,649
–96,663
–Commoditycontracts
65330
–67366
–Equitycontracts
51896
–16520
–Creditdefaultswaps
–6812
–6228
75931,884
1270529,526
28DerivativeLiabilities

Interestratecontracts
3316,983
–821,516
–Foreignexchangecontracts
3312,110
–56,443
–Commoditycontracts
1,101233
–695138
–Equitycontracts
383,002
–702,997
–Creditdefaultswaps
–116
8–831
91,20532,444
877831,177
19Certaincomparativefigureshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformwiththecurrentyear’spresentation.
ValuationTechniquesandSignificantInputs
Wedeterminethefairvalueofpubliclytradedfixedmaturityandequity
securitiesusingquotedpricesinactivemarkets(Level1)whenthese

areavailable.Whenquotedpricesinactivemarketsarenotavailable,

wedeterminethefairvalueoffinancialinstrumentsusingmodelssuch

asdiscountedcashflowswithobservablemarketdataforinputssuchas

yieldandprepaymentratesorbrokerquotesandotherthird-party

vendorquotes(Level2).Fairvaluemayalsobedeterminedusing

modelswheresignificantmarketinputsarenotobservabledueto

inactivemarketsorminimalmarketactivity(Level3).Wemaximizethe

useofmarketinputstotheextentpossible.
OurLevel2tradingsecuritiesareprimarilyvaluedusingdiscounted
cashflowmodelswithobservablespreadsorbrokerquotes.Thefair

valueofLevel2available-for-salesecuritiesisdeterminedusing

discountedcashflowmodelswithobservablespreadsorthird-party

vendorquotes.Level2structurednoteliabilitiesarevaluedusing

modelswithobservablemarketinformation.Level2derivativeassets

andliabilitiesarevaluedusingindustry-standardmodelsandobservable

marketinformation.
182BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesQuantitativeInformationaboutLevel3FairValueMeasurements
ThetablebelowpresentsthefairvaluesofoursignificantLevel3financialinstruments,thevaluationtechniquesusedtodeterminetheirfairvalues
andthevaluerangesofsignificantunobservableinputsusedinthevaluations.
Fairvalue
Rangeofinputvalues
(1)AsatOctober31,2014
(Canadian$inmillions,exceptasnoted)
Reportinglineinfairvalue
hierarchytableAssetsLiabilitiesValuationtechniques
SignificantunobservableinputsLowHigh
SecuritiesPrivateequity
(2)Corporateequity
1,138–
NetAssetValue
EV/EBITDANetAssetValue
Multiplena5.5xna8.9xCollateralizedloanobligationssecurities
(3)Corporatedebt
546–
DiscountedCashFlowModelYield/DiscountMargin
1.15%1.15%
MerchantbankingsecuritiesOther
467–
NetAssetValue
EV/EBITDANetAssetValue
Multiplena4.4xna9.2x(1)Thelowandhighinputvaluesrepresenttheactualhighestandlowestlevelofinputsused
tovalueagroupoffinancialinstrumentsinaparticularproductcategory.Theseinputranges
donotreflectthelevelofinputuncertainty,butareaffectedbythespecificunderlying

instrumentswithintheproductcategory.Theinputrangeswillthereforevaryfromperiodto

periodbasedonthecharacteristicsoftheunderlyinginstrumentsheldateachbalance

sheetdate.
(2)Includedinprivateequityis$600millionofFederalReserveBankandU.S.FederalHome
LoanBanksharesthatweholdtomeetregulatoryrequirements.Thesesharesarecarriedat

cost,whichisdeemedtoapproximatefairvalueasaresultofthesesharesnotbeingtraded

inthemarket.
(3)Includesbothtradingandavailable-for-saleinstruments.

na–notapplicable
SignificantUnobservableInputsinLevel3
InstrumentValuations
NetAssetValue
Netassetvaluerepresentstheestimatedvalueofasecuritybasedon
valuationsreceivedfromtheinvestmentorfundmanager.Thevaluation

ofcertainprivateequitysecuritiesisbasedontheeconomicbenefit

derivedfromourinvestment.
EV/EBITDAMultiple
Thefairvalueofprivateequityandmerchantbankinginvestmentsis

derivedbycalculatinganenterprisevalue(“EV”)usingtheEV/EBITDA

multipleandthenproceedingthroughawaterfallofthecompany’s

capitalstructuretodeterminethevalueoftheassetsorsecuritieswe

hold.TheEV/EBITDAmultipleisdeterminedusingjudgmentin

consideringfactorssuchasmultiplesforcomparablelistedcompanies,

recenttransactionsandcompany-specificfactors,aswellasliquidity

discountsthataccountforthelackofactivetradingintheseassetsand

securities.Yield/DiscountMargin
Afinancialinstrument’syieldistheinterestrateusedtodiscountfuture

cashflowsinavaluationmodel.Anincreaseintheyield,inisolation,

wouldresultinadecreaseintherelatedfairvaluemeasurement.The

discountmarginisthedifferencebetweenadebtinstrument’syieldand

abenchmarkinstrument’syield.Benchmarkinstrumentshavehigh

creditqualityratingsandsimilarmaturitiesandareoftengovernment

bonds.Thediscountmarginforaninstrumentformspartoftheyield

usedinadiscountedcashflowcalculation.Generally,anincreaseinthe

discountmarginwillresultinadecreaseinfairvalue.
SensitivityAnalysisofLevel3Instruments
SensitivityanalysisatOctober31,2014forsignificantLevel3

instruments,thatissecuritieswhichrepresentgreaterthan10%of

Level3instruments,isprovidedbelow.
WithinLevel3tradingsecuritiesiscorporatedebtof$538million
relatedtosecuritiesthatarehedgedwithcreditdefaultswapsthatare
alsoconsideredtobeLevel3instruments.AsatOctober31,2014,the

derivativeassetsandderivativeliabilitieswerevaluedat$12million

and$8million,respectively.Wehavedeterminedthevaluationofthese

derivativesandtherelatedsecuritiesbasedonmarket-standardmodels

weusetomodelthespecificcollateralcompositionandcashflow

structureoftherelateddeal.AsatOctober31,2014,theimpactof

assuminga10basispointincreaseordecreaseinthediscountmargin

wouldbea$1milliondecreaseorincreaseinfairvalue,respectively.
Wehavenotappliedanotherreasonablypossiblealternative
assumptiontothesignificantLevel3categoriesofprivateequity

investmentsandmerchantbankingsecurities,asthenetassetvalues

areprovidedbytheinvestmentorfundmanagers.
SignificantTransfers
Ourpolicyistorecordtransfersofasse
tsandliabilitiesbetweenfairvalue
hierarchylevelsattheirfairvaluesasattheendofeachreportingperiod,

consistentwiththedateofthedeterminationoffairvalue.Transfersare

madebetweenthevariousfairvaluehierarchylevelsthatresultfrom

changesintheavailabilityofquotedmarketpricesorobservablemarket

inputsthatresultfromchangingmarketconditions.Thefollowingisa

discussionofthesignificanttransfersbetweenLevel1,Level2and

Level3balancesfortheyearendedOctober31,2014.
DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,$584millionoftrading
securitiesand$8millionofavailable-for-salesecuritiesweretransferred

fromLevel1toLevel2duetoreducedobservabilityoftheinputsused

tovaluethesesecurities.DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,

$1,140millionoftradingsecuritiesand$1,481millionofavailable-for-

salesecuritiesweretransferredfromLevel2toLevel1duetoincreased

availabilityofquotedpricesinactivemarkets.
DuringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,$4millionofavailable-for-
salesecuritiesweretransferredfromLevel2toLevel3asaresultof

feweravailablepricesforthesesecuritiesduringtheyear.Duringthe

yearendedOctober31,2014,$15millionoftradingsecuritiesand$12

millionofavailable-for-salesecuritiesweretransferredfromLevel3to

Level2asmarketinformationbecameavailableforcertaincorporate

debtsecurities.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
183NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
ChangesinLevel3FairValueMeasurements
ThetablebelowpresentsareconciliationofallchangesinLevel3financialinstrumentsduringtheyearendedOctober31,2014,includingrealized
andunrealizedgains(losses)includedinearningsandothercomprehensiveincome.
Changeinfairvalue
FortheyearendedOctober31,2014
(Canadian$inmillions)
BalanceOctober31,
2013Includedin
earningsIncludedinother
compre-hensiveincomePurchasesSales
Maturities/Settlement(1)TransfersintoLevel3
Transfersoutof
Level3
Fairvalue
asat
October31,
2014Unrealizedgains(losses)(2)TradingSecurities
Issuedorguaranteedby:
U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies78
7––––––857
Corporatedebt822
65––(66)(268)–(15)53865
Totaltradingsecurities900
72––(66)(268)–(15)62372
Available-for-SaleSecurities

Issuedorguaranteedby:
U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies1
–––––––1–
Corporatedebt30
(1)––(21)–––8–
Corporateequity949
(37)94193(53)–4(12)1,13894
Totalavailable-for-salesecurities980
(38)94193(74)–4(12)1,14794
OtherSecurities
48817–118(156)–––46717
DerivativeAssets

Creditdefaultswaps28
(16)––––––12(16)
DerivativeLiabilities

Creditdefaultswaps19
(11)––––––8(11)
(1)Includescashsettlementofderivativeassetsandderivativeliabilities.
(2)Unrealizedgainsorlossesontradingsecurities,derivativeassetsandderivativeliabilities
heldonOctober31,2014areincludedinearningsintheyear.Foravailable-for-sale
securities,theunrealizedgainsorlossesonsecuritiesheldonOctober31,2014areincluded

inAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome.
184BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NotesThetablebelowpresentsareconciliationofallchangesinLevel3financialinstrumentsduringtheyearendedOctober31,2013,includingrealized
andunrealizedgains(losses)includedinearningsandothercomprehensiveincome.
Changeinfairvalue
FortheyearendedOctober31,2013
(Canadian$inmillions)
BalanceOctober31,
2012Includedin
earningsIncludedinother
compre-hensiveincomePurchasesSales
Maturities/
Settlement(1)
TransfersintoLevel3
Transfersoutof
Level3
Fairvalue
asat
October31,
2013Unrealizedgains(losses)(2)
TradingSecurities
Issuedorguaranteedby:
Canadianprovincialandmunicipalgovernments731––(46)––(28)––

U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies78–––––––78–
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesandcollateralized
mortgageobligations37228––(378)(39)17–––
Corporatedebt1,33142–3(227)(327)––82239
Totaltradingsecurities1,85471–3(651)(366)17(28)90039

Available-for-SaleSecurities
Issuedorguaranteedby:
U.S.states,municipalitiesandagencies9–––(8)–––1–
Corporatedebt42–227(10)(2)–(29)301

Corporateequity942(19)46119(135)––(4)94944
Totalavailable-for-salesecurities993(19)48146(153)(2)–(33)98045

OtherSecurities
52614–86(138)–––4889
DerivativeAssets
Interestratecontracts3(3)–––––––(3)

Equitycontracts5–––(1)––(4)––

Creditdefaultswaps37(9)––––––28(9)
Totalderivativeassets45(12)––(1)––(4)28(12)

DerivativeLiabilities
Interestratecontracts20(20)–––––––(20)

Equitycontracts4415––(3)–6(62)––

Foreignexchangecontracts2––––––(2)––

Creditdefaultswaps217––––––19(17)
Totalderivativeliabilities6812––(3)–6(64)19(37)
(1)Includescashsettlementofderivativeassetsandderivativeliabilities.
(2)Unrealizedgainsorlossesontradingsecurities,derivativeassetsandderivativeliabilities
heldonOctober31,2013areincludedinearningsintheyear.Foravailable-for-sale
securities,theunrealizedgainsorlossesonsecuritiesheldonOctober31,2013areincluded

inAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
185NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
Note32:ContractualMaturitiesofAssetsandLiabilitiesandOff-Balance
SheetCommitments
Thetablesbelowshowtheremainingcontractualmaturityofon-balance
sheetassetsandliabilitiesandoff-balancesheetcommitments.The

contractualmaturityoffinancialassetsandliabilitiesisaninputto,but

isnotnecessarilyconsistentwith,theexpectedmaturityofassetsand

liabilitiesthatisusedinthemanagementofliquidityandfundingrisk.

Weforecastassetandliabilitycashflowsbothundernormalmarket

conditionsandunderanumberofstressscenariostomanageliquidity

andfundingrisk.Stressscenariosincludeassumptionsforloan
repayments,depositwithdrawals,andcreditcommitmentandliquidity

facilitydrawdownsbycounterpartyandproducttype.Stressscenarios

alsoconsiderthetimehorizonoverwhichliquidassetscanbe

monetizedandtherelatedhaircutsandpotentialcollateralrequirements

thatmayresultfrombothmarketvolatilityandcreditrating

downgrades,amongotherassumptions.Forfurtherdetails,seethe

LiquidityandFundingRisksectiononpages95to99ofour2014

Management’sDiscussionandAnalysis.
(Canadian$inmillions)
20140to1
month1to3
months3to6
months6to9
months9to12
months1to2
years2to5
yearsOver5
yearsNomaturityTotal
On-BalanceSheetFinancialInstruments
Assets
Cashandcashequivalents
27,625–––––––76128,386
Interestbearingdepositswithbanks
4,1241,4205211431––––6,110
SecuritiesTradingsecurities
5421,1595841,3441,2745,2559,72217,40947,73385,022
Available-for-salesecurities
1,0143455531,1387148,75021,04711,6991,70646,966
Held-to-maturitysecurities
––113982941,3564,1724,311–10,344
Othersecurities
–1032––4519908987
Totalsecurities
1,5561,5141,2532,5822,28215,36134,98633,43850,347143,319
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresale
agreements39,01410,2552,536678938134–––53,555
LoansResidentialmortgages
1,2841,5283,7634,7254,47020,49755,6599,087–101,013
Consumerinstalmentandotherpersonal
3864581,0971,1931,2576,49120,8478,98123,43364,143
Creditcards
––––––––
7,9727,972
Businessesandgovernments
7,7019,5203,4384,20111,01910,31537,5376,29430,741120,766
Customers’liabilityunderacceptances
8,8711,9207719––––10,878
Allowanceforcreditlosses
––––––––
(1,734)(1,734)
Totalloansandacceptances,netofallowance
18,24213,4268,37510,12016,75537,303114,04324,36260,412303,038
OtherAssets
Derivativeinstruments
2,7032,3481,3871,7467963,4368,95511,284–32,655
Premisesandequipment
––––––––
2,2762,276
Goodwill––––––––
5,3535,353
Intangibleassets
––––––––
2,0522,052
Currenttaxassets
––––––––665665
Deferredtaxassets
––––––––
3,0193,019
Other1,5092711494––643,5452,6898,231
Totalotherassets
4,2122,6191,5361,7507963,4369,01914,82916,05454,251
TotalAssets
94,77329,23414,22115,14420,80256,234158,04872,629127,574588,659
186BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
Notes(Canadian$inmillions)
20140to1
month1to3
months3to6
months6to9
months9to12
months1to2
years2to5
yearsOver5
yearsNomaturityTotal
LiabilitiesandEquity
Deposits(1)Banks7,4954,6801,0675972–––4,40218,243
Businessesandgovernments
26,64425,06120,25510,1578,43916,34723,9148,198100,124239,139
Individuals2,0393,2905,4724,2965,2886,38616,4541,52890,953135,706
Totaldeposits
36,17833,03126,79415,05013,72922,73340,3689,726195,479393,088
Otherliabilities
Derivativeinstruments
1,5452,3211,3252,0951,3994,5659,63310,774–33,657
Acceptances8,8711,9207719––––10,878
Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchased
27,348––––––––
27,348Securitieslentorsoldunderrepurchase
agreements36,7572,6241499570––––39,695
Currenttaxliabilities
––––––––235235
Deferredtaxliabilities
––––––––178178
Securitizationandliabilitiesrelatedto
structuredentity
34291,5603411,1353,97610,0664,955–22,465
Other7,22614216330261933,5771,7237,56520,798
Totalotherliabilities
81,7507,4363,1272,8622,6398,73423,27617,4527,978155,254
Subordinateddebt
––––––100
4,813–4,913
TotalEquity
––––––––35,40435,404
TotalLiabilitiesandEquity
117,92840,46729,92117,91216,36831,46763,74431,991238,861588,659
(1)Depositspayableondemandandpayableafternoticehavebeenincludedundernomaturity.
(Canadian$inmillions)
20140to1
month1to3
months3to6
months6to9
months9to12
months1to2
years2to5
yearsOver5
yearsNomaturityTotal
Off-BalanceSheetCommitments
Commitmentstoextendcredit
(1)1,3131,7173,8446,0483,83015,87251,0861,549–85,259
Operatingleases
2652777776281630638–1,857
Financialguaranteecontracts
(1)5,269––––––––5,269
Purchaseobligations
58113169169169586783209–2,256
(1)Alargemajorityofthesecommitmentsexpirewithoutbeingdrawnupon.Asaresult,thetotalcontractualamountsmaynotberepresentativeofthefundinglikelytoberequired
forthesecommitments.
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
187NotesNOTESTOCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
(Canadian$inmillions)
20130to1
month1to3
months3to6
months6to9
months9to12
months1to2
years2to5
yearsOver5
yearsNomaturityTotal
On-BalanceSheetFinancialInstruments
Assets
Cashandcashequivalents25,323
–––––––766
26,089Interestbearingdepositswithbanks4,5921,2954718476––––6,518
SecuritiesTradingsecurities1,2091,2844801,5214424,78110,59314,76240,08775,159
Available-for-salesecurities2,0263,6281,4392,0762,8206,72922,17011,2621,56053,710

Held-to-maturitysecurities
–––––562
4,864606–6,032
Othersecurities––18––33417827899
Totalsecurities3,2354,9121,9373,5973,26212,07537,66126,64742,474135,800
Securitiesborrowedorpurchasedunderresale
agreements26,4219,6272,949597205––––39,799
LoansResidentialmortgages8321,2762,7164,5533,78717,44156,6309,157–96,392
Consumerinstalmentandotherpersonal3232946438908344,73023,2859,63623,00563,640

Creditcards
––––––––
7,8707,870
Businessesandgovernments7,9657,5553,4003,9558,8509,69730,5745,08727,502104,585

Customers’liabilityunderacceptances8,36710311–––––8,472

Allowanceforcreditlosses
––––––––
(1,665)(1,665)
Totalloansandacceptances,netofallowance17,4879,2286,7609,39913,47131,868110,48923,88056,712279,294
OtherAssets
Derivativeinstruments8749259697245554,28110,37411,557–30,259
Premisesandequipment
––––––––
2,1682,168
Goodwill––––––––
3,8193,819
Intangibleassets
––––––––
1,5111,511
Currenttaxassets
––––––––
1,0651,065
Deferredtaxassets
––––––––
3,0273,027
Other1,561148137–––143,3202,5157,695
Totalotherassets2,4351,0731,1067245554,28110,38814,87714,10549,544
TotalAssets79,49326,13513,22314,40117,56948,224158,53865,404114,057537,044
188BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
Notes(Canadian$inmillions)
20130to1
month1to3
months3to6
months6to9
months9to12
months1to2
years2to5
yearsOver5
yearsNomaturityTotal
LiabilitiesandEquity
Deposits(1)Banks10,2413,733140231563–––5,68320,591
Businessesandgovernments26,27629,24610,5246,1865,59113,98330,6688,21291,660222,346

Individuals2,2533,7615,2034,6185,5137,22811,4501,52683,880125,432
Totaldeposits38,77036,74015,86711,03511,66721,21142,1189,738181,223368,369
Otherliabilities
Derivativeinstruments7031,3081,2448017114,92810,82811,451–31,974
Acceptances8,36710311
–––––
8,472Securitiessoldbutnotyetpurchased22,446
––––––––
22,446Securitieslentorsoldunderrepurchaseagreements24,4832,9531,448
––––––
28,884Currenttaxliabilities
––––––––438438
Deferredtaxliabilities
––––––––107107
Securitizationandliabilitiesrelatedtostructured
entity1,2211,481998–3183,29510,3954,653–22,361
Other6,793140135264273,2051,2556,95418,818
Totalotherliabilities64,0135,9853,7048071,0558,65024,42817,3597,499133,500
Subordinateddebt
––––––100
3,896–3,996
TotalEquity
––––––––31,17931,179
TotalLiabilitiesandEquity102,78342,72519,57111,84212,72229,86166,64630,993219,901537,044
(1)Depositspayableondemandandpayableafternoticehavebeenincludedundernomaturity.
(Canadian$inmillions)
20130to1
month1to3
months3to6
months6to9
months9to12
months1to2
years2to5
yearsOver5
yearsNomaturityTotal
Off-BalanceSheetCommitments
Commitmentstoextendcredit
(1)1,1699073,2464,4443,85013,38142,5102,353–71,860
Operatingleases2546696969262618640–1,798

Financialguaranteecontracts
(1)4,778––––––––
4,778Purchaseobligations711412112162077291,115275–2,965
(1)Alargemajorityofthesecommitmentsexpirewithoutbeingdrawnupon.Asaresult,thetotalcontractualamountsmaynotberepresentativeofthefundinglikelytoberequiredforthese
commitments.BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
189GLOSSARYOFFINANCIALTERMS
GlossaryofFinancialTerms
AdjustedEarningsandMeasures
presentresultsadjustedtoexclude

theimpactofcertainitemsassetout

intheNon-GAAPMeasuressection.

Managementconsidersboth

reportedandadjustedresultstobe

usefulinassessingunderlying

ongoingbusinessperformance.
AllowanceforCreditLosses
repre-sentsanamountdeemedadequate
bymanagementtoabsorbcredit-

relatedlossesonloansandaccept-

ancesandothercreditinstruments.

Allowancesforcreditlossescanbe

specificorcollectiveandare

recordedonthebalancesheetasa

deductionfromloansandaccept-

ancesor,astheyrelatetocredit

instruments,asotherliabilities.

Pages71,87,136
AssetsunderAdministrationand
underManagement
referstoassets
administeredormanagedbyafinan-

cialinstitutionthatarebeneficially

ownedbyclientsandthereforenot

reportedonthebalancesheetofthe

administeringormanagingfinancial

institution.Asset-BackedCommercialPaper
(ABCP)isashort-terminvestment.
Thecommercialpaperisbackedby

physicalassetssuchastradereceiv-

ables,andisgenerallyusedfor

short-termfinancingneeds.
Assets-to-CapitalMultiple
reflectstotalassets,includingspecifiedoff-
balancesheetitemsnetofother

specifieddeductions,dividedby

Totalcapital.

Pages66,163
AverageEarningAssets
representsthedailyormonthlyaveragebalance
ofdepositswithotherbanksand

loansandsecurities,overaone-

yearperiod.
Bankers’Acceptances(BAs)
arebillsofexchangeornegotiable
instrumentsdrawnbyaborrowerfor

paymentatmaturityandaccepted

byabank.BAsconstitutea

guaranteeofpaymentbythebank

andcanbetradedinthemoney

market.Thebankearnsa“stamping

fee”forprovidingthisguarantee.
BasisPoint
isoneone-hundredthof
apercentagepoint.

BusinessRisk
arisesfromthe
specificbusinessactivitiesofa
companyandtheeffectsthesecould

haveonitsearnings.

Page103
CollectiveAllowance
ismaintained
tocoverimpairmentintheexisting
creditportfoliothatcannotyetbe

associatedwithspecificcreditassets.

Ourapproachtoestablishingand

maintainingthecollectiveallowance

isbasedontherequirementsofIFRS,

consideringguidelinesissuedbyour

regulator,OSFI.Thecollectiveallow-

anceisassessedonaquarterly
basisandanumberoffactorsare

consideredwhendeterminingits

level,includingthelong-run

expectedlossamountandmanage-

ment’screditjudgmentwithrespect

tocurrentmacroeconomicand

portfolioconditions.

Pages40,87,136
CommonEquityTier1(CET1)
capitaliscomprisedofcommon
shareholders’equitylessdeductions

forgoodwill,intangibleassets,

pensionassets,certaindeferredtax

assetsandotheritems.

Pages64,163
CommonEquityTier1Ratio
reflectsCET1,dividedbyCET1capitalrisk-
weightedassets.

Pages64,163
CommonShareholders’Equity
isthemostpermanentformofcapital.
Forregulatorycapitalpurposes,

commonshareholders’equityis

comprisedofcommonshareholders’

equity,netofcapitaldeductions.
CreditandCounterpartyRisk
isthe
potentialforlossduetothefailureof
aborrower,endorser,guarantoror

counterpartytorepayaloanor

honouranotherpredetermined

financialobligation.

Page84
Derivativesarecontractswitha
valuethatis“derived”frommove-
mentsininterestorforeign

exchangerates,equityorcommodity

pricesorotherindices.Derivatives

allowforthetransfer,modificationor

reductionofcurrentorexpectedrisks

fromchangesinratesandprices.
DividendPayoutRatio
representscommonsharedividendsasaper-
centageofnetincomeavailableto

commonshareholders.Itiscom-

putedbydividingdividendsper

sharebybasicearningspershare.
EarningsPerShare(EPS)
iscalcu-
latedbydividingnetincome
attributabletobankshareholders,

afterdeductionofpreferredshare

dividends,bytheaveragedaily

numberoffullypaidcommonshares

outstandingthroughouttheyear.

DilutedEPS,whichisourbasisfor

measuringperformance,adjustsfor

possibleconversionsoffinancial

instrumentsintocommonsharesif

thoseconversionswouldreduceEPS.

AdjustedEPSiscalculatedinthe

samemanner,usingadjusted

netincome.

Pages33,173
EarningsSensitivity
isameasureof
theimpactofpotentialchangesin
interestratesontheprojected

12-monthafter-taxnetincomeofa

portfolioofassets,liabilitiesandoff-

balancesheetpositionsinresponse

toprescribedparallelinterestrate

movements.
Page95
EconomicCapital
isourinternal
assessmentoftherisksunderlying

BMO’sbusinessactivities.Itrepre-

sentsmanagement’sestimateofthe

likelymagnitudeofeconomiclosses

thatcouldoccurifadversesituations

arise,andallowsreturnstobe

measuredonabasisthatconsiders

theriskstaken.EconomicCapitalis

calculatedforvarioustypesofrisk–

credit,market(tradingandnon-

trading),operationalandbusiness–

wheremeasuresarebasedonatime

horizonofoneyear.EconomicCapital

isakeyelementofourrisk-based

capitalmanagementandICAAP

framework.

Pages67,68,83
EconomicValueSensitivity
isa
measureoftheimpactofpotential
changesininterestratesonthe

marketvalueofaportfolioofassets,

liabilitiesandoff-balancesheetposi-

tionsinresponsetoprescribed

parallelinterestratemovements.

Page95
EfficiencyRatio(orExpense-to-
RevenueRatio)
isakeymeasureof
efficiency.Itiscalculatedasnon-

interestexpensedividedbytotal

revenue,expressedasapercentage.

Theadjustedefficiencyratioiscalcu-

latedinthesamemanner,utilizing

adjustedtotalrevenueandnon-

interestexpense.

Page41
EnvironmentalandSocialRisk
istheriskoflossordamagetoBMO’s
reputationresultingfromenviron-

mentalandsocialconcernsrelatedto

BMOoritscustomers.Environmental

andsocialriskisoftenassociated

withcredit,operationalandreputa-

tionrisk.

Page105
FairValue
istheamountofconsid-
erationthatwouldbeagreeduponin
anarm’slengthtransactionbetween

knowledgeable,willingpartieswho

areundernocompulsiontoact.
ForwardsandFutures
arecon-
tractualagreementstoeitherbuyor
sellaspecifiedamountofacurrency,

commodity,interest-rate-sensitive

financialinstrumentorsecurityata

specificpriceanddateinthefuture.

Forwardsarecustomizedcontracts

transactedintheover-the-counter

market.Futuresaretransactedin

standardizedamountsonregulated

exchangesandaresubjecttodaily

cashmargining.

Page146
Hedgingisariskmanagementtech-
niqueusedtoneutralize,manageor
offsetinterestrate,foreigncurrency,

equity,commodityorcredit

exposuresarisingfromnormal

bankingactivities.
ImpairedLoans
areloansforwhich
thereisnolongerreasonableassur-
anceofthetimelycollectionof

principalorinterest.
InnovativeTier1Capital
isaform
ofTier1capitalissuedbystructured

entitiesthatcanbeincludedincalcu-

latingabank’sTier1CapitalRatio,

TotalCapitalRatioandAssets-to-

CapitalMultiple.UnderBaselIII,

InnovativeTier1Capitalisnon-

qualifyingandispartofthegrand-

fatheredcapitalbeingphasedout

between2013and2022.
InsuranceRisk
istheriskoflossdue
toactualexperiencebeingdifferent
fromthatassumedwhenan

insuranceproductwasdesignedand

priced.Itgenerallyentailsinherent

unpredictabilitythatcanarisefrom

assuminglong-termpolicyliabilities

orfromtheuncertaintyoffuture

events.Insuranceriskexistsinallour

insurancebusinesses,including

annuitiesandlife,accidentand

sickness,andcreditorinsurance,as

wellasourreinsurancebusiness.

Page102
LegalandRegulatoryRisk
isthe
riskofnotcomplyingwithlaws,
contractualundertakingsorother

legalrequirements,aswellasregu-

latoryrequirementsandregulators’

expectations.Failuretoproperly

managelegalandregulatoryrisk

mayresultinlitigationclaims,finan-

ciallosses,regulatorysanctions,an

inabilitytoexecuteourbusiness

strategiesandharmto

ourreputation.

Page102
LeverageRatio
iscomprisedof
Tier1capital,dividedbytotalassets
includingspecifiedoff-balancesheet

items,netofotherspecified

deductions.
Pages65,66
LiquidityandFundingRisk
isthe
potentialforlossifBMOisunableto
meetfinancialcommitmentsina

timelymanneratreasonableprices

astheyfalldue.Financialcommit-

mentsincludeliabilitiestodepositors

andsuppliers,andlending,invest-

mentandpledgingcommitments.

Pages95,142
MarketRisk
isthepotentialfor
adversechangesinthevalueof
BMO’sassetsandliabilitiesresulting
fromchangesinmarketvariables
suchas
interestrates,foreign
exchangerates,equityand

commoditypricesandtheirimplied

volatilities,andcreditspreads,as

wellastheriskofcreditmigration

anddefault.

Pages91,142
Mark-to-Marketrepresentsthe
valuationoffinancialinstruments
atmarketratesasofthebalance

sheetdate,whererequiredby

accountingrules.
ModelRisk
isthepotentialfor
adverseconsequencesfromdeci-
sionsbasedonincorrectormisused

modeloutputs.Theadversecon-

sequencescanbefinancialloss,poor

businessdecision-makingordamage

toreputation.

Page103
190BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
NetInterestIncome
iscomprisedof
earningsonassets,suchasloansand
securities,includinginterestand

dividendincomeandBMO’sshareof

incomefrominvestmentsaccounted

forusingtheequitymethodof

accounting,lessinterestexpense

paidonliabilities,suchasdeposits.

Page37
NetInterestMargin
istheratioof
netinterestincometoaverage
earningassets,expressedasa

percentageorinbasispoints.Net

interestmarginissometimescom-

putedusingtotalassets.

Page37
NotionalAmount
referstothe
principalusedtocalculateinterest
andotherpaymentsunderderivative

contracts.Theprincipalamountdoes

notchangehandsunderthetermsof

aderivativecontract,exceptinthe

caseofcross-currencyswaps.
Off-BalanceSheetFinancial
Instrumentsconsistofavarietyof
financialarrangementsofferedto

clients,whichincludecredit

derivatives,writtenputoptions,

backstopliquidityfacilities,standby

lettersofcredit,performanceguaran-

tees,creditenhancements,commit-

mentstoextendcredit,securities

lending,documentaryandcommer-

ciallettersofcredit,andother

indemnifications.OfficeoftheSuperintendentof
FinancialInstitutionsCanada

(OSFI)isthegovernmentagency
responsibleforregulatingbanks,

insurancecompanies,trustcompa-

nies,loancompaniesandpension

plansinCanada.
OperatingLeverage
isthediffer-
encebetweenrevenueandexpense
growthrates.Adjustedoperating

leverageisthedifferencebetween

adjustedrevenueandadjusted

expensegrowthrates.

Pages27,41
OperationalRisk
isthepotentialfor
lossresultingfrominadequateor
failedinternalprocessesorsystems,

humaninteractionsorexternal

events,butexcludesbusinessrisk.

Page101
Optionsarecontractualagreements
thatconveytothebuyertherightbut
nottheobligationtoeitherbuyorsell

aspecifiedamountofacurrency,

commodity,interest-rate-sensitive

financialinstrumentorsecurityata

fixedfuturedateoratanytime

withinafixedfutureperiod.

Page146
ProvisionforCreditLosses
isa
chargetoincomethatrepresentsan
amountdeemedadequateby

managementtofullyprovidefor

impairmentinaportfolioofloansand
acceptancesandothercreditinstru-

ments,giventhecompositionofthe

portfolio,theprobabilityofdefault,

theeconomicenvironmentandthe

allowanceforcreditlossesalready

established.
Pages40,86,136
ReputationRisk
istheriskofa
negativeimpactonBMOthatresults
fromthedeteriorationofBMO’s

reputation.Potentialnegative

impactsincluderevenueloss,decline

inclientloyalty,litigation,regulatory

sanctionoradditionaloversight,or

declineinBMO’sshareprice.

Page105
ReturnonEquityorReturnon
CommonShareholders’Equity

(ROE)iscalculatedasnetincome,
lessnon-controllinginterestinsub-

sidiariesandpreferreddividends,as

apercentageofaveragecommon

shareholders’equity.Common

shareholders’equityiscomprisedof

commonsharecapital,contributed

surplus,accumulatedothercompre-

hensiveincome(loss)andretained

earnings.AdjustedROEiscalculated

usingadjustednetincome.

Page34
Risk-WeightedAssets(RWA)
aredefinedason-andoff-balancesheet
exposuresthatarerisk-weighted

basedoncounterparty,collateral,

guaranteearrangementsand

possiblyproductandtermforcapital

managementandregulatory

reportingpurposes.

Page64
SecuritiesBorrowedorPurchased
underResaleAgreements
arelow-
cost,low-riskinstruments,often

supportedbythepledgeofcash

collateral,whicharise

fromtransactionsthatinvolve

theborrowingorpurchasing

ofsecurities.
SecuritiesLentorSoldunder
RepurchaseAgreements
arelow-
cost,low-riskliabilities,oftensup-

portedbycashcollateral,whicharise

fromtransactionsthatinvolvethe

lendingorsellingofsecurities.
Securitizationisthepracticeof
sellingpoolsofcontractualdebts,
suchasresidentialmortgages,

commercialmortgages,autoloans

andcreditcarddebtobligations,to

thirdparties.

Page143
SpecificAllowances
reducethe
carryingvalueofspecificcredit
assetstotheamountweexpectto

recoverifthereisevidenceof

deteriorationincreditquality.

Pages87,136
StrategicRisk
isthepotentialfor
lossduetofluctuationsinthe
externalbusinessenvironment

and/orfailuretoproperlyrespondto

thesefluctuationsasaresultof
inaction,ineffectivestrategiesor

poorimplementationofstrategies.

Page104
StressedValueatRisk(SVaR)
ismeasuredforspecificclassesofrisk
inBMO’stradingandunderwriting

activities:interestrate,foreign

exchangerate,creditspreads,equity

andcommoditypricesandtheir

impliedvolatilities,wheremodel

inputsarecalibratedtohistorical

datafromaperiodofsignificant

financialstress.Thismeasurecalcu-

latesthemaximumlosslikelytobe

experiencedintheportfolios,meas-

uredata99%confidencelevelover

aspecifiedholdingperiod.

Page91
StructuredEntities(SEs)
includeentitiesforwhichvotingorsimilar
rightsarenotthedominantfactorin

determiningcontroloftheentity.We

arerequiredtoconsolidateanSEif

wecontroltheentitybyhaving

powerovertheentity,exposureor

rightstovariablereturnsfromour

involvementandtheabilityto

exercisepowertoaffecttheamount

ofourreturns.

Pages70,144
Swapsarecontractualagreements
betweentwopartiestoexchangea
seriesofcashflows.Thevarious

swapagreementsthatweenterinto

areasfollows:
•Commodityswaps–
counterpartiesgenerallyexchangefixed-rateand
floating-ratepaymentsbasedon

anotionalvalueofasingle

commodity.•Creditdefaultswaps–
onecounterpartypaystheotherafee

inexchangeforthatothercounter-

partyagreeingtomakeapayment

ifacrediteventoccurs,suchas

bankruptcyorfailuretopay.
•Cross-currencyinterestrate
swaps–
fixed-rateandfloating-rate
interestpaymentsandprincipal

amountsareexchangedin

differentcurrencies.
•Cross-currencyswaps–
fixed-rateinterestpaymentsandprincipal

amountsareexchangedin

differentcurrencies.
•Equityswaps–
counterpartiesexchangethereturnonanequity

securityoragroupofequitysecu-

ritiesforthereturnbasedona

fixedorfloatinginterestrateorthe

returnonanotherequitysecurityor

groupofequitysecurities.
•Interestrateswaps–
counter-partiesgenerallyexchangefixed-

rateandfloating-rateinterest

paymentsbasedonanotional

valueinasinglecurrency.

Page146
TaxableEquivalentBasis(teb):

Revenuesofoperatinggroups

reflectedinourMD&Aarepresented

onataxableequivalentbasis(teb).

Tofacilitatecomparisons,theteb

adjustmentincreasesreported

revenuesandtheprovisionfor

incometaxesbyanamountthat

wouldincreaserevenuesoncertain

tax-exemptsecuritiestoalevelthat

wouldincurtaxatthestatutoryrate.

Pages36,174
Tier1Capital
isprimarilycomprised
ofCET1,preferredsharesandother
qualifyingorgrandfatherednon-

commonequitycapital,netofcertain

deductions.
Pages64,163
Tier1CapitalRatio
reflectsTier1
capitaldividedbyTier1capitalrisk-
weightedassets.

Pages64,163
TotalCapital
includesTier1and
Tier2capital.Tier2capitalis
primarilycomprisedofsubordinated

debenturesandaportionofthe

collectiveallowanceforcreditlosses,

netofcertaindeductions.

Pages64,163
TotalCapitalRatio
reflectsTotal
capitaldividedbyTotalcapitalrisk-
weightedassets.Pages64,163
TotalShareholderReturn:
Thethree-yearandfive-yearaverage
annualtotalshareholderreturn(TSR)
representstheaverageannualtotal

returnearnedonaninvestmentin

BMOcommonsharesmadeatthe

beginningofathree-yearandfive-

yearperiod,respectively.Thereturn

includesthechangeinshareprice

andassumesthatdividendsreceived

werereinvestedinadditional

commonshares.Theone-yearTSR

alsoassumesthatdividendswere

reinvestedinshares.

Page31
Trading-RelatedRevenues
includenetinterestincomeandnon-interest
revenueearnedfromon-andoff-

balancesheetpositionsundertaken

fortradingpurposes.Themanage-

mentofthesepositionstypically

includesmarkingthemtomarketon

adailybasis.Trading-relatedrev-

enuesincludeincome(expense)and

gains(losses)frombothon-balance

sheetinstrumentsandinterestrate,

foreignexchange(includingspot

positions),equity,commodityand

creditcontracts.

Page39
ValueatRisk(VaR)
ismeasuredfor
specificclassesofriskinBMO’s
tradingandunderwritingactivities:

interestrate,foreignexchangerate,

creditspreads,equityand

commoditypricesandtheirimplied

volatilities.Thismeasurecalculates

themaximumlosslikelytobe

experiencedintheportfolios,meas-

uredata99%confidencelevelover

aspecifiedholdingperiod.

Pages91,92
BMOFinancialGroup197thAnnualReport2014
191192
  BMO Financial Group 197th Annual Report 2014
Corporate Governance
Our website provides information on our 
corporate governance practices, including our 

code of conduct, 
FirstPrinciples
, our Director 

Independence Standards and our board 
 mandate and committee charters.
 Management Proxy Circular
Our management proxy circular contains 
 information on our directors, board committee 

reports and a det
ailed discussion of our corporate 
governance practices. It will be published in 

March 2015 and will be available on our website.
New York Stock Exchange  
Governance Requirements
A summary of the significant ways in which  
our corporate governance practices differ  

from the corporate governance practices 

required to be followed by U.S. domestic  

companies under New York Stock Exchange  

Listing Standards is posted on our website.
Sustainability Performance
BMO™s 
Environmental, Social and Governance 

Report and Public Accountability Statement
 
(ESG Report/PAS) outlines how we manage the 

environmental, social and governance impacts 

of our business while creating value for our 

many stakeholders. We use the Global Report-

ing Initiative (GRI) as a framework for reporting 

on our sustainability performance. This report is 

available on our website.
Corporate Responsibility
BMO™s 
Corporate Responsibility Report
, a 
companion piece to the ESG Report/PAS, 

illustrates the way we conduct our business, 

what we stand for and the commitments we™ve 

made to our customers and the communities 

where we operate. This report and additional 

information are available on our website.
Have Your Say
If you have a question you would like to ask  
at our annual meeting of shareholders, you  
can submit your question in person or during 

the webcast. You can also submit a question to  
the board by writing to the Corporate Secretary 
at Corporate Secretary™s Office, 21st Floor,  

1 First Canadian Place, Toronto, ON
 M5X 1A1,  
or emailing corp.secretary@bmo.com. 
Shareholders
Contact our Transfer Agent and Registrar for:
 Dividend information
 Change in share registra
tion or address
 Lost certificates
 Estate transfers
 Duplicate mailings
 Direct registration
Computershare 
Trust Company of Canada
 100 University Avenue, 8th Floor, Toronto, ON
 M5J 2Y1 
Email: service@computershare.com
 Canada and the United States 
Call: 
1-800-340-5021
 Fax: 
1-888-453-0330
International 

Call: 
514-982-7800
 Fax: 
416-263-9394
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
  
Co-Transfer Agent (U.S.) 
Online filing information:
BMO filings in Canada 
Canadian Securities Administrators 
BMO filings in the United States 
Securities and Exchange Commission
For all other shareholder inquiries:
Shareholder Services
 BMO Financial Group  

Corporate Secretary™s Office  

21st Floor, 1 First Canadian Place  

Toronto, ON
 M5X 1A1 Email: corp.secr
etary@bmo.com
 Call: 
416-867-6785
 Fax: 
416-867-6793
Institutional Investors  
and Research Analysts
To obtain additional financial information:
Head, Investor Relations
 BMO Financial Group  

18th Floor, 1 First Canadian Place  

Toronto, ON
 M5X 1A1 Email: inves
tor.relations@bmo.com
 Call: 
416-867-6656
 Fax: 
416-867-3367
Employees
For information on BMO™s Employee Share  

Ownership Plan:
Call: 
1-877-266-6789
General
To obtain printed copies of the  
annual report or make inquiries  

about company news and initiatives: 
Corporate Communications Department
 BMO Financial Group  

28th Floor, 1 First Canadian Place  

Toronto, ON
 M5X 1A1On peut obtenir sur demande  

un exemplaire en français.
Customers
For assistance with your investment portfolio  

or other financial needs:
BMO Bank of Montreal
 English and French: 
1-877-225-5266
 
Cantonese and Mandarin: 
1-800-665-8800
 Outside Canada and the continental United States: 

514-881-3845
 
TTY service for hearing impaired customers:  

1-866-889-0889
BMO InvestorLine: 1-888-776-6886
BMO Harris Bank 
United States: 
1-888-340-2265
 Outside the United States: 
1-847-238-2265
BMO Nesbitt Burns: 416-359-4000
The following are trademarks of Bank of Montreal or its subsidiaries:
BMO Harris Healthy Credit, BMO World Elite, UPGRADE, BMO DepositEdge 
The following are trademarks of other parties:
Interac is a registered trademark of Interac Inc.

MasterCard is a registered trademark of MasterCard International Incorporated
www.bmo.com/corporategovernance
www.bmo.com/corporategovernance
www.bmo.com/corporategovernance
www.bmo.com/corporateresponsibility
www.bmo.com/corporateresponsibility
www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml
Where to Find More Information
www.sedar.com
www.computershare.com/investor
www.bmo.com
www.bmo.com
www.bmoinvestorline.com
www.harrisbank.com
www.bmonesbittburns.com
Strategic design: Ove Brand|Design
 www.ovedesign.com
Auditors 
KPMG LLP
Important Dates
Fiscal Year End
 October 31
Annual Meeting 
  
March 31, 2015
,  9:30 a.m. (local time)
The annual meeting of shareholders will  
be held in Toronto, Ontario, at the BMO 

Institute for Learning, 3550 Pharmacy 

Avenue. 
The meeting will be webcast. 
 Details are available on our website.
2015 Dividend Payment Dates
*Common and preferred shares record dates
 February 2
 May 1 
August 3
 November 2
Common shar
es payment dates 
February 26
 May 26 
August 26
 November 26
Preferred shares payment dates 
February 25
 May 25 
August 25
 November 25
*Subject to approval by the Board of Directors.
The 
Bank Act
 prohibits a bank from  
declaring or paying a dividend if it is or 
would thereby be in contravention of  
regulations or an order from the Super
-intendent of Financial Ins
titutions Canada 
dealing with adequacy of capital or liquidity. 
Currently, this limitation does not restrict 
the pay
ment of dividends on Bank of  
Montreal™s 
common or preferred shares.
Managing Your Shares
Our Transfer Agent and Registrar 
Computershare Trust Company of Canada serves 
as Transfer Agent and Registrar for common and 

preferred shares, with transfer facilities in Halifax, 

Montreal, Toronto, Winnipeg, Calgary and 

Vancouver. Computershare Investor Services PLC 

and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. serve as 

Transfer Agents and Registrars for common shares 

in London, England and Golden, Colorado, respec
-tively
. See previous page for contact information.
Reinvesting Your Dividends and  

Purchasing Additional Common Shares
Through the Shareholder Dividend Reinvestment 

and Share Purchase Plan, you can reinvest cash 

dividends from your BMO common shares to 

purchase additional BMO common shares without 

paying a commission or service charge. You can 

also purchase additional common shares in 

amounts up to $40,000 per fiscal year. Contact 

Computershare Trust Company of Canada 
 or Shareholder Services for details. 
Employee Ownership
*82.4%
 of Canadian employees participate 
in the BMO Employee Share Ownership Plan 
Œ a clear indication of their commitment
 to 
the company. 
*As of October 31, 2014.
Market for Shares of Bank of Montreal
The common shares of Bank of Montreal are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) and  

New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). The preferred shares of Bank of Montreal are listed on the TSX.
Common Share Trading in Fiscal 2014
Primary stock
  Closing price 
   Total volume 
of
 exchanges
 Ticker
 October 31, 2
014 High Low
  shares traded 
TSX
 BMO
 $81.73 $85.71 $67.04 304.5 millionNYSE BMO
 US$72.60 US$78.56
 US$60.34
 91.8 million
Common Share History
Date
  
Action
 Common share eff
ect
March 14, 2001
 100% stock dividend
 Equivalent to a 2
-for-1 stock split
March 20, 1993
 100% stock dividend
 Equivalent to a 2
-for-1 stock split
June 23, 1967
 Stock split
 5-for-
1 stock split
Dividends Paid per Share in 2014 and Prior Years
Bank of Montreal has paid dividends for 186 years 
Œ the longest-running dividend payout 
record of any company in Canada.
  Shares outstanding  
Issue/
Class
 Ticker
 at October 31
, 2014
 2014
 2013
 2012
 2011
 2010
Common
 BMO
 649,050,049 $ 3.04 (a)
  
$ 2.92 $ 2.80 $ 2.80 $ 2.80Preferred Class B
  
Series 5 (b)
 BMO.PR.H
 Œ Œ  $ 0.66  
 $ 1.33 $ 1.33 $ 1.33Series 10 (c)
 BMO.PR.V
 Œ Œ Œ US$ 0.37 US$ 1.49 US$ 1.49Series 13 (d)
 BMO.PR.J
 14,000,000 $ 1.13  $ 1.13  
 $ 1.13 $ 1.13 $ 1.13Series 14 (e) BMO.PR.K
 10,000,000 $ 1.31 $ 1.31 $ 1.31 $ 1.31 $ 1.31Series 15 (f)
 BMO.PR.L
 10,000,000 $ 1.45  $ 1.45 $ 1.45 $ 1.45 $ 1.45Series 16 (g)
 BMO.PR.M
 6,267,391 $ 0.85  $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.30 $ 1.30Series 17 (h)
 BMO.PR.R
 5,732,609 $ 0.65 Œ Œ Œ ŒSeries 18 (i) BMO.PR.N
 Œ $ 0.81  $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63Series 21 
(j)
 BMO.PR.O
 Œ $ 1.22   $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63 $ 1.63Series 23 (k)
 BMO.PR.P
 16,000,000 $ 1.35  $ 1.35 $ 1.35 $ 1.35 $ 1.35Series 25 (l) BMO.PR.Q
 11,600,000 $ 0.98  $ 0.98 $ 0.98 $ 0.69 ŒSeries 27 (m) BMO.PR.S
 20,000,000 $ 0.34  Œ Œ Œ ŒSeries 29 (n) BMO.PR.T
 16,000,000 Œ  Œ Œ Œ Œ Series 31 (o) BMO.PR.W
 12,000,000 Œ  Œ Œ Œ ŒDirect Deposit
You can choose to have your dividends  
deposited directly to an account in any 

financial
 institution in Canada or the 
United States that provides electronic 

funds transfer.
Personal Information Security
We advise our shareholders to be diligent in 
protecting their personal information. Details 

are available on our website.
Credit Ratings
Credit rating information appears on pages 25 and 100 of this annual report and on our website.
(a)
 Dividend amount paid in 2014 was $3
.04. Dividend amount declared in 
2014 was $3.08.
(b)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 5 were issued in February 1998 and 
were redeemed in February 2013. Dividend amount declared in 2013 of 
$0.33 was included in the redemption price.
(c)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 10 were issued in December 2001 and 
were redeemed in February 2012.
(d)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 13 were issued in January 2007. 
(e)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 14 were issued in September 2007.
(f)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 15 were issued in March 2008.
(g)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 16 were issued in June 2008.
(h)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 17 were issued in August 2013.
(i) The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 18 were issued in December 2008 
and were redeemed in February 2014.
(j)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 21 were issued in March 2009 and 
were redeemed in May 2014.
(k)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 23 were issued in June 2009.
(l)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 25 were issued in March 2011.
(m)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 27 were issued in April 2014.
(n)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 29 were issued in June 2014.
(o)
 The Class B Pref
erred Shares Series 31 were issued in July 2014.
Your vote matters.
 Look out for your proxy circular in 
March and remember to vote. 
www.bmo.com/security
www.bmo.com/creditratings
Shareholder Information
www.bmo.com/investorrelations
This annual report is carbon neutral.
Carbon offsets 
provided by:
Who We Are 
Established in 1817, BMO Financial Group is a highly diversified financial 
services provider based in North America. With total assets of $589 billion 

and more than 46,000 employees, BMO provides a broad range of retail 

banking, wealth management and investment banking products and 

services to more than 12 million customers and conducts business through 

three operating groups: Personal and Commercial Banking, Wealth 

Management and BMO Capital Markets.
