   TWO THOUSAND SIXTEEN 
Notice of Annual Meeting 
and Proxy Statement 
–––––Table of Contents< 
LETTER TO STOCKHOLDERS 
Page 1 
NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING 
Page 2 
INTRODUCTION Page 3 
ITEM 1 ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
Page 6 
Resolution Page 7 Nominees Page 8 Corporate Governance and Board Information Page 16 Director Compensation Page 28 ITEM 2 ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
Page 30 
Resolution Page 31 Compensation Discussion and Analysis Page 32 Executive Compensation Tables Page 54 ITEM 3 APPROVAL OF THE 2016 EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE 
COMPENSATION PLAN Page 66 
Resolution Page 66 Key Terms of the 2016 EICP Page 67 Plan Benefits Page 70 ITEM 4 RATIFICATION OF KPMG LLP 
Page 71 
Resolution Page 71 Report of the Audit Committee Page 72 Services Provided by KPMG LLP Page 73 ITEM 5 STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL REGARDING AN 

INDEPENDENT BOARD CHAIRMAN 
Page 74 
Stockholder Proposal Page 74Board of Directors’ Response Page 75ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
Page 77 
Equity Compensation Plans Page 78 Information on Stock Ownership Page 79 Annual Meeting Q&A Page 81 Other Information Page 84 Helpful Resources Page 87 ANNEX A: NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION 
Page 88 
ANNEX B: 2016 EICP 
Page 92 
LETTER FROM THE CEO 
March 11, 2016 
Dear Fellow Stockholder: On behalf of the Board of Directors, we are pleased to invite you to our 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held 

on Tuesday, April 12, 2016 at 9 a.m., Eastern time, at 101 Barclay Street, New York, New York 10286. 
At this year’s Annual Meeting, you will be asked to vote on several items, including the election of directors, our 2015 
executive compensation program and our 2016 executive incentive compensation plan (the “2016 EICP”). Detailed 

information about the director nominees, including their specific experience and qualifications, begins on page 6. Our 

Compensation Discussion and Analysis, which explains our continued commitment to pay for performance, alignment 

with stockholders’ interests and appropriate risk-taking in the context of our 2015 compensation decisions, begins on 

page 32. A summary of the key terms of the 2016 EICP and why we are seeking shareholder approval of the plan begins 

on page 66. We appreciate the opportunity to provide you with these details of your Board’s actions in 2015 and 

recommendations for 2016. We encourage you to read the proxy statement carefully for more information. 
Your vote is important to us
, and we hope that you will participate in the Annual Meeting, either by attending and 
voting in person or by voting through any of the acceptable means described in this proxy statement, as promptly as 
possible. Instructions on how to vote begin on page 81. You may also listen to the meeting at https:// 

www.bnymellon.com/us/en/investor-relations/index.jsp. 
Thank you for your continued support of BNY Mellon, and we look forward to seeing you at the Annual Meeting. 

Sincerely, Gerald L. Hassell 
Chairman and CEO 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
1 NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING 
TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016 
9:00 a.m., Eastern time< 
101 Barclay Street, New York, New York 10286< 
Record Date: February 12, 2016< 
AGENDA BOARD RECOMMENDATION 
1. To elect the 11 nominees named in this proxy statement to serve on our 
Board of Directors until the 2017 annual meeting 
FOR each director nominee 2. To provide an advisory vote for approval of the 2015 compensation of 

our named executive officers, as disclosed in this proxy statement 
FOR 3. To approve The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2016 Executive 

Incentive Compensation Plan 
FOR 4. To ratify the appointment of KPMG LLP as our independent auditor for 2016 
FOR 5. To consider a stockholder proposal regarding an independent Board 

chairman, if properly presented 
AGAINST We will also act on any other business that is properly raised. 
March 11, 2016 
By Order of the Board of Directors, 
Craig T. Beazer 
Corporate Secretary IT IS IMPORTANT THAT YOU CAREFULLY READ YOUR PROXY STATEMENT AND VOTE. 
IN PERSON VIA THE INTERNET BY TELEPHONE BY MAIL Attend the annual meeting Visit the website listed Call the telephone number Mail in a completed (see page 81 for more on your proxy card listed on your proxy card proxy card information) Important Notice Regarding the Availability of Proxy Materials for the Stockholder Meeting to be held< 
on April 12, 2016: Our 2016 proxy statement and 2015 Annual Report to stockholders are available< 
at www.envisionreports.com/bk.< 
2 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
 INTRODUCTION This introduction highlights certain information included in the proxy 
statement. You should read the entire proxy statement carefully 

before voting. 
2015 Business Highlights 
TSR Exceeded Peers Returned $3
.1 Billion to Stockholders 10% 100%@ 8%@ 6%@ $760 m
illion80% in common 
69.4%4% 3.3% dividends 58.1% 60%2% (3.5%) (0
.2%)0% 45.4% 40%-2%@ -4%@ -6%@ 20% -8%@ -10%@ 0% 1-Year 3-Year $2.4 billion in common stock  
S&P Financials Index Peer Group Median BNYM repurchases 
On Track to Achieve Our Three-Year Financial Goals 
 19%*  2%* Operating EPS 
Adjusted revenue 
 2%* Adjusted pre-tax operating margin 
Adjusted noninterest expense 
up 270 basis points to 31%* 
Awards and Recognition 
Investment Services 
Investment Management 
Treasury Services 
#1 in The Expert category 
Best Trade Outsourcing Bank 
Top National Private Asset 
Global Trade Review, 2015 Offering for Family Offices 
R&M Investor Services Survey, 2015 Manager and Top Private Bank 
Top Service Provider 
Family Wealth Report, 2015 TechnologyMutual Fund Service Guide, 2015 Highest Growth Product 
Top Company for Women in Technology 
Best Managed Accounts Platform 
Standish Global Fixed Income strategy 
Anita Borg Institute, 2015 Hedgeweek, 2015 Morningstar’s World Bond category, 2015 Tech Project of the Year 
#1 in Product Capability, 
LDI Manager of the Year 
The Banker, 2015Tri-Party Securities Financing Survey 
(third consecutive year) 
Global Custodian, 2015 c/o European Innovation Awards, 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility 
World and North American Indices 
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, 2015 * 2015 vs. 2014. Operating EPS, adjusted revenue, adjusted noninterest expense and adjusted pre-tax operating margin are non-GAAP measures. For a reconciliation and 
explanation of these non-GAAP measures, see Annex A. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
3 IndependentAudit Corp.Gov.&Nom.
(1) Corp.SocialResp. 
Executive(1) FinanceHumanRes.&Comp. 
Risk Technology INTRODUCTION DIRECTOR NOMINEES 
Our directors contribute to the strength of 
our Board through their experience, diversity, 

differing perspectives and institutional knowledge. 
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS 
Name Occupation< Nicholas M. Donofrio 
Age 70, Director since 1999 Retired EVP, Innovation & Technology of IBM Corporation Š Š Š Š C Joseph J. Echevarria 

Age 59, Director since 2015 Retired CEO of Deloitte LLP Š C Š Š Edward P. Garden 

Age 54, Director since 2014 Chief Investment Officer and a founding partner of Trian Fund Management, L.P. Š Š Š Š Jeffrey A. Goldstein 

Age 60, Director since 2014 Managing Director, Hellman & Friedman LLC Š C Š Š Gerald L. Hassell 

Age 64, Director since 1998 Chairman & CEO of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Š John M. Hinshaw 

Age 45, Director since 2014 EVP and Chief Customer Officer of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company Š Š Š Š Edmund F. “Ted” Kelly 

Age 70, Director since 2004 Retired Chairman of Liberty Mutual Group Š Š C Š John A. Luke, Jr. 

Age 67, Director since 1996 Non-Executive Chairman of WestRock Company Š Š Š Š Mark A. Nordenberg 

Age 67, Director since 1998 Chancellor Emeritus, Chair of the Institute of Politics and Distinguished Service Professor of Law of the University of Pittsburgh Š Š Š C Š Catherine A. Rein 

Age 73, Director since 1981 Retired Senior EVP & Chief Administrative Officer of MetLife, Inc. Š Š Š Š Samuel C. Scott III 

Age 71, Director since 2003 Retired Chairman, President & CEO of Ingredion Incorporated Š Š Š Š C 1 William C. Richardson, currently Chairman of our Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, is retiring as a director of our company immediately after our Annual Meeting. Wesley W. von Schack, currently Chairman of our Executive Committee, is resigning as a director of our company, effective following our Annual Meeting. 4 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE AND COMPENSATION< 
Robust Stockholder Rights 
Active, Independent Board 
Our Culture 
• No staggered board 
• Special meeting rights 
for stockholders, individually or in a 
group, holding 20% of our 

outstanding common stock 
• Proxy access 
allowing stockholders, 
individually or in a group of up to 20, 

holding 3% of our outstanding stock 

for at least 3 years to nominate up to 
20% of the Board 
• No plurality voting 
in uncontested 
director elections (each director must 
be elected by majority of votes cast) 
• No supermajority voting: 

stockholder actions require only 

majority of votes cast (not majority of 

shares present and entitled to vote) 
• No “poison pill” (stockholders’ 

rights plan) 
• Continued, active engagement 

with our stakeholders 
• Independent board: 
our Board is 
comprised solely of independent 

directors other than our CEO and 

meets in regular executive sessions 
• Independent Lead Director: 

selected by our independent 

directors and empowered with 

broad authority 
• Committee Chairman rotation: 
our committee chairmen are required to 
rotate at five-year intervals 
• High rate of attendance: 
average 2015 attendance at Board and 
committee meetings was 90% 
• Risk-aware: we protect against 
excessive risk-taking through 
multiple lines of defense, including 
Board oversight 
• Honest and accountable: 
our codes 
of conduct apply to all employees 

and directors to provide a framework 

for ethical conduct 
• Innovative and evolving: 
we encourage directors to participate in 

continuing education programs, and 

have continued to enhance our 

integrated learning and 

development platform for 

employees through BNY Mellon 

University (“BKU”) 
Awarded 2015 Total Direct Compensation
(1) Annual Incentive Long-Term Incentive Total Incentive Awarded Total 
Direct Compensation(1)Named Executive Officers 
(NEOs) Salary Cash RSUs 
%of 
Target PSUs 
%of 
Target %of 
Target Gerald L. Hassell 
$1,000,000 $2,419,200 $9,676,800 144% $4,140,000 115% 135% $17,236,000Chairman & CEO Thomas P. (Todd) Gibbons 
$650,000 $2,426,760 $2,966,040 144% $1,845,750 115% 135% $7,888,550Vice Chairman & CFO Curtis Y. Arledge
(2) Vice Chairman & CEO of $650,000 $3,364,200 $4,111,800 80% $3,204,000 80% 80% $11,330,000 Investment Management Karen Peetz 
$650,000 $1,647,726 $2,013,887 120% $1,305,000 100% 114% $5,616,613President Brian T. Shea
(3) Vice Chairman & CEO of $600,000 $2,459,646 $3,006,234 145% $1,863,000 115% 136% $7,928,880 Investment Services 1The amounts reported as Awarded Total Direct Compensation differ substantially from the amounts determined under SEC rules as reported for 2015 in the “Total” column of the Summary Compensation Table set forth on page 54. The above table is not a substitute for the Summary Compensation Table. 2 Mr. Arledge is no longer serving as Vice Chairman and CEO of Investment Management, and his employment with BNY Mellon is scheduled to terminate on March 23, 2016. As a result, Mr. Arledge is eligible to vest only in a pro-rated amount of his 2015 long-term incentive award, as further discussed on page 51. 3 Mr. Shea’s salary increased from $550,000 to $600,000 effective July 1, 2015. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
5 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
Item 1. Election of Directors< 
RESOLUTION Page 7 
NOMINEES Page 8 
Director Qualifications Page 14Majority Voting Standard Page 15CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND BOARD INFORMATION Page 16 
Our Corporate Governance Practices Page 16Board Leadership Structure Page 18Director Independence Page 19Oversight of Risk Page 21Board Meetings and Committee Information Page 22Compensation Consultants to the HRC Committee Page 26Succession Planning Page 27Contacting the Board Page 27DIRECTOR COMPENSATION 
Page 28 
6 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
   ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Resolution@ 
The Board of Directors 
unanimously recommends 
that you vote 
“FOR” each of 
the nominees 
described below. 
Proposal We are asking stockholders to elect the 11 nominees named in this proxy statement to serve on the Board of Directors of 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the “company,” “BNY Mellon,” “we” or “us”) until the 2017 Annual Meeting 

of stockholders or until their successors have been duly elected and qualified. 
Background • Each nominee currently serves on our Board of Directors. 
• 10 nominees are currently independent directors and one nominee serves as the company’s Chairman and Chief 

Executive Officer. 
• Richard J. Kogan and William C. Richardson, currently directors 
of our company, will not be standing for re-election at our 

Annual Meeting. Wesley W. von Schack, currently a director of 

our company, is resigning, effective following our Annual 

Meeting. • The Board and the Corporate Governance and Nominating 
Committee (“CG&N Committee”) have concluded that each of 

our nominees should be recommended for re-nomination as a 

director as described on page 14 after considering, among 

other things, the nominee’s (1) professional background and 

experience, (2) senior level policy-making positions, (3) other 

public company board experience, (4) diversity, (5) intangible 

attributes, (6) prior BNY Mellon Board experience, and (7) 

Board attendance and participation. 
• The nominees have skills and expertise in a wide range of 
areas, including technology, accounting, private equity, 

financial regulation, financial services, insurance, risk 

management and legal matters. 
Voting We do not know of any reason why any nominee named in this proxy statement would be unable to serve as a director if 

elected. If any nominee is unable to serve, the shares represented by all valid proxies will be voted for the election of 

such other person as may be nominated in accordance with our by-laws, as described on page 15. Proxies cannot be 

voted for a greater number of persons than the number of nominees named in this proxy statement. 
Each director will be elected if more votes are cast “for” the director’s election than are cast “against” the director’s 
election, with abstentions and broker non-votes not being counted as a vote cast either “for” or “against” the director’s 

election. Pursuant to our Corporate Governance Guidelines, if any incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the 

votes cast, the director will be required to tender his or her resignation promptly after the certification of the stockholder 

vote. Our CG&N Committee will promptly consider the tendered resignation and recommend to the Board whether to 

accept or reject it, or whether other actions should be taken. More information on our voting standard and the CG&N 

Committee’s consideration of tendered resignations is provided on page 15 below. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
7 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Nominees@ 
Nicholas M. Donofrio 
Age 70 Independent Director of BNY Mellon and 
predecessor companies since 1999 
Retired Executive Vice President, 
Innovation and Technology of 

IBM Corporation 
Committees: Corporate Social Responsibility, Executive, Risk, Technology (Chairman) 
Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.; Delphi Automotive PLC Joseph J. Echevarria 
Age 59 Independent Director since 2015 

Retired CEO of Deloitte LLP 

Committees: Audit (Chairman), Corporate Social Responsibility, Finance Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: Pfizer Inc. Mr. Donofrio served as Executive Vice President, 
Innovation and Technology of International Business 

Machines (“IBM”) Corporation, a developer, manufacturer 

and provider of advanced information technologies and 

services, from 2005 until his retirement in 2008. Mr. 

Donofrio previously served as Senior Vice President, 

Technology and Manufacturing of IBM Corporation from 

1997 to 2005 and spent a total of 44 years as an employee 

of IBM Corporation. In addition to the public company 

board service noted above, Mr. Donofrio currently serves 

as a director of Liberty Mutual Group. He previously served 

as a director of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. (“The 

Bank of New York”) from 1999 to 2007 and has served as a 

director of the company since 2007. 
Mr. Donofrio holds seven technology patents and is a 
member of numerous technical and science honor 

societies. Mr. Donofrio serves as a director of the National 

Association of Corporate Directors, is Co-Chair Emeritus 

and a member of the Board of Trustees of the New York 

Hall of Science, is a director of Sproxil, Inc. and O’Brien & 

Gere, is on the board of advisors of StarVest Partners, L.P., 

and is a member of the Board of Trustees of Syracuse 

University. Mr. Donofrio earned a Bachelor of Science 

degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and a Master 

of Science degree from Syracuse University. 
Skills and Expertise:< 
• Expertise in technology issues 
• Senior level policy-making experience in the field of 
engineering • Teaching and training in the area of innovation 
Mr. Echevarria served as Chief Executive Officer of Deloitte 

LLP, a global provider of professional services, from 2011 

until his retirement in 2014. Mr. Echevarria previously 

served in increasingly senior leadership positions during 

his 36-year career at the firm, including U.S. Managing 

Partner for Operations, prior to being named Chief 

Executive Officer. In addition to the public company board 

service noted above, Mr. Echevarria currently serves as a 

Trustee of the University of Miami and a Member of the 

Private Export Council, the principal national advisory 

committee on international trade. He also serves as a 

board member and Chief Executive Officer of President 

Obama’s My Brother’s Keeper Alliance. Mr. Echevarria has 

served as a director of the company since 2015. Mr. 

Echevarria earned his bachelor’s degree in business 

administration from the University of Miami. 
Skills and Expertise:< 
• Leadership of a large, global company 
• Financial expert, with expertise in accounting, regulatory 
and compliance issues 
• Senior level policy-making experience in the field of 

professional services 
Leadership Technology Global Finance Governance Research Diversity 8 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Nominees@ 
Edward P. Garden 
Age 54 Independent Director since 2014 

Chief Investment Officer and a founding 
partner of Trian Fund Management, L.P. 
Committees: Finance, Human Resources and Compensation, Risk Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: None 
Jeffrey A. Goldstein 
Age 60 Independent Director since 2014 

Managing Director, Hellman & Friedman 
LLC and Former Under Secretary of the 

Treasury for Domestic Finance 
Committees: Finance (Chairman), Human Resources and Compensation, Risk Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: None Mr. Garden has been Chief Investment Officer and a 
founding partner of Trian Fund Management, L.P. 

(“Trian”), a multi-billion dollar alternative investment 

management firm, since November 2005. He has served as 

a director of the company since 2014. 
Mr. Garden served as a director of Family Dollar Stores, 
Inc., a discount retailer, from September 2011 until its 

acquisition by Dollar Tree, Inc. in July 2015, and as a 

director of The Wendy’s Company from December 2004 to 

December 2015. Mr. Garden has also entered into an 

agreement with Pentair plc, pursuant to which at its 2016 

annual general meeting of shareholders, Pentair will 

recommend to its shareholders that they approve an 

amendment to increase the size of the board by one 

director and immediately after such approval, Pentair will 

appoint Mr. Garden as a director to fill the vacancy. 

Previously he served as Vice Chairman and a director of 

Triarc Companies, Inc. from December 2004 through June 

2007 and Executive Vice President from August 2003 until 

December 2004. From 1999 to 2003, Mr. Garden was a 

managing director of Credit Suisse First Boston, where he 

served as a senior investment banker in the Financial 

Sponsors Group. From 1994 to 1999, he was a managing 

director at BT Alex Brown, where he was a senior member 

of the Financial Sponsors Group and, prior to that, co-head 

of Equity Capital Markets. Mr. Garden graduated from 

Harvard College with a B.A. in Economics. 
Skills and Expertise:< 
• Experience in finance 
• Expertise in financing, operating and investing in 
companies • Extensive service on the boards of several large public 

companies Mr. Goldstein has been a Managing Director at Hellman & 

Friedman LLC, a private equity firm, since 2011 and was 

previously at the firm from 2004 to 2009. He was Under 

Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance and 

Counselor to the Secretary of the Treasury from 2009 to 

2011. Mr. Goldstein has served as a director of the 

company since 2014. 
Mr. Goldstein worked at James D. Wolfensohn Inc. and 
successor firms for 15 years. When Wolfensohn & Co. was 

purchased by Bankers Trust in 1996, he served as co-

chairman of BT Wolfensohn and as a member of Bankers 

Trust’s management committee. In 1999, Mr. Goldstein 

became a managing director of the World Bank. He also 

served as its Chief Financial Officer beginning in 2003. In 

July of 2009, President Barack Obama nominated Mr. 

Goldstein to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for 

Domestic Finance. In July 2011, Secretary of the Treasury 

Timothy F. Geithner awarded Mr. Goldstein with the 

Alexander Hamilton award, the highest honor for a 

presidential appointee. Earlier in his career Mr. Goldstein 

taught economics at Princeton University and worked at 

the Brookings Institution. Mr. Goldstein earned a Bachelor 

of Arts degree from Vassar College and a Master of Arts, 

Master of Philosophy and a Ph.D. in economics from Yale 

University. Skills and Expertise:< 
• Experience in private equity and finance 
• Expertise in the operations of large financial institutions 
• Experience in financial regulation and banking 
Leadership Technology Global Finance Governance Research Diversity BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
9 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Nominees@ 
Gerald L. Hassell 
Age 64 Management Director of BNY Mellon and 
predecessor companies since 1998 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The 
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 
Committees: Executive Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: Comcast Corporation Mr. Hassell has served as our Chief Executive Officer since 
2011 and served as our President since the merger of The 

Bank of New York and Mellon Financial Corporation 

(“Mellon”) in 2007 (the “merger”) through 2012. Prior to 

the merger, Mr. Hassell served as President of The Bank of 

New York from 1998 to 2007. He served as a director of 

The Bank of New York from 1998 to 2007 and has served 

as a director of the company since 2007. Since joining The 

Bank of New York’s Management Development Program 

more than three decades ago, Mr. Hassell has held a 

number of key leadership positions within the company in 

securities servicing, corporate banking, credit, strategic 

planning and administration services. 
In addition to the public company board service noted 
above, Mr. Hassell is also a director of the National 

September 11 Memorial & Museum and the Lincoln Center 

for the Performing Arts, and is Vice Chair of Big Brothers/ 

Big Sisters of New York. Mr. Hassell holds a Bachelor of 

Arts degree from Duke University and a Master in Business 

Administration degree from the New York University Stern 

School of Business. 
Skills and Expertise:< 
• Knowledge of the company’s businesses and operations 
• Participation in financial services industry associations 
• Experience in the financial services industry 
John M. Hinshaw 
Age 45 Independent Director since 2014 

Executive Vice President and Chief 
Customer Officer of Hewlett Packard 

Enterprise Company 
Committees: Human Resources and Compensation, Risk, Technology Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: None Mr. Hinshaw has served as the Executive Vice President 
and Chief Customer Officer of Hewlett Packard Enterprise 

Company since November 2015. From November 2011 to 

November 2015, Mr. Hinshaw served as Executive Vice 

President of Technology and Operations at Hewlett-

Packard Company. He is also a member of the Executive 

Council at Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. Mr. 

Hinshaw has served as a director of the company since 

2014. Prior to joining Hewlett-Packard Company, Mr. Hinshaw 
served as Vice President and General Manager for Boeing 

Information Solutions at The Boeing Company. Before 

that, he served as Boeing’s Chief Information Officer and 

led their companywide corporate initiative on information 

management and information security. Mr. Hinshaw also 

spent 14 years at Verizon Communications where, among 

several senior roles, he was Senior Vice President and 

Chief Information Officer of Verizon Wireless, overseeing 

the IT function of the wireless carrier. Mr. Hinshaw is also a 

board member of DocuSign, Inc., a provider of electronic 

signature transaction management, and the National 

Academy Foundation, an educational non-profit 

organization. He received a B.B.A. in Computer 

Information Systems and Decision Support Sciences from 

James Madison University. 
Skills and Expertise:< 
• Technology and management expertise 
• Experience in the operations of large, complex 
companies • Leadership roles in several different industries 
Leadership Technology Global Finance Governance Research Diversity 10 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Nominees@ 
Edmund F. “Ted” Kelly 
Age 70 Independent Director of BNY Mellon and 
predecessor companies since 2004 
Retired Chairman of Liberty Mutual Group 

Committees: Human Resources and Compensation, Risk (Chairman), Technology Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: EMC Corporation Mr. Kelly served as Chairman (from 2000 to 2013), 
President (from 1992 to 2010) and Chief Executive Officer 

(from 1998 to 2011) of Liberty Mutual Group, a multi-line 

insurance company. Mr. Kelly served as a director of 

Mellon from 2004 to 2007 and has served as a director of 

the company since 2007. 
Mr. Kelly’s experience also includes senior-level 
management positions at Aetna Life & Casualty Company. 

Mr. Kelly was a director of Citizens Financial Group Inc., 

where he served as Chair of the Audit Committee and 

Chair of the Joint Risk Assessment Committee. In addition 

to the public company board service noted above, 

Mr. Kelly is also a member of the Board of Governors of 

the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America and 

a director of the Financial Services Roundtable; a member 

of the boards of the United Way of Massachusetts Bay, the 

American Red Cross of Massachusetts Bay, the American 

Ireland Fund and The Massachusetts Mentoring 

Partnership, among others; a past member of the Board of 

Trustees for Boston College and former President of the 

Boston Minuteman Council of the Boy Scouts of America. 

Mr. Kelly received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Queen’s 

University in Belfast and a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts 

Institute of Technology. 
Skills and Expertise:< 
• Leadership of a large public company in a highly 
regulated industry 
• Experience in risk management 
• Senior-level policy-making experience in the insurance 

industry John A. Luke, Jr. 
Age 67 Independent Director of BNY Mellon and 
predecessor companies since 1996 
Non-Executive Chairman of WestRock 
Company Committees: Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating,
 Executive Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: The Timken Company; WestRock Company Mr. Luke has served as non-executive Chairman of 
WestRock Company, a global paper and packaging 

company, since July 2015 when it was formed by the 

merger of Rock-Tenn Company and MeadWestvaco 

Corporation. Mr. Luke previously served as Chairman and 

Chief Executive Officer of MeadWestvaco Corporation 

from 2002 to July 2015. Mr. Luke served as a director of 

The Bank of New York from 1996 to 2007 and has served 

as a director of the company since 2007. 
In addition to the public company board service noted 
above, Mr. Luke is also a director of FM Global and a 

former director and chairman of the National Association 

of Manufacturers and the American Forest & Paper 

Association. He is a trustee of the American Enterprise 

Institute for Public Policy Research, serves on the boards of 

the US China and India Business Councils and is a former 

member of the President’s Export Council. Mr. Luke is also 

a trustee of the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, the 

Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, and is rector and member of 

the Board of Visitors of Virginia Commonwealth University. 

Mr. Luke served as an officer with the U.S. Air Force in 

Southeast Asia during the Vietnam conflict. He earned a 

Bachelor of Arts degree from Lawrence University and a 

Master in Business Administration degree from The 

Wharton School of Business at the University of 

Pennsylvania. Skills and Expertise:< 
• Leadership of a large public company 
• Experience managing finance, operations and marketing 
of an international business 
• Senior level policy-making experience in the 

manufacturing industry 
Leadership Technology Global Finance Governance Research Diversity BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
11 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Nominees@ 
Mark A. Nordenberg 
Age 67 Independent Director of BNY Mellon and 
predecessor companies since 1998 
Chancellor Emeritus, Chair of the Institute of 
Politics and Distinguished Service Professor 

of Law of the University of Pittsburgh 
Committees: Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Corporate Social Responsibility (Chairman), Technology Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: None Mr. Nordenberg served as Chancellor and Chief Executive 
Officer of the University of Pittsburgh, a major public 

research university, from 1996 to August 2014. He 

currently serves as Chancellor Emeritus, Chair of the 

Institute of Politics and Distinguished Service Professor of 

Law at the University. Mr. Nordenberg served as a director 

of Mellon from 1998 to 2007 and has served as a director 

of the company since 2007. 
Mr. Nordenberg joined the University of Pittsburgh’s law 
faculty in 1977 and served as Dean of the School of Law 

from 1985 until 1993. Mr. Nordenberg was the interim 

Provost and Senior Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs 

from 1993 to 1994, and interim Chancellor from 1995 to 

1996. A specialist in legal process and procedure, 

including civil litigation, he has published books, articles 

and reports on this topic, and has served as a member of 

both the U.S. Advisory Committee on Civil Rules and the 

Pennsylvania Supreme Court’s Civil Procedural Rules 

Committee. He is a former director and executive 

committee member of the Association of American 

Universities and has served on the boards of national and 

regional organizations promoting innovation and economic 

progress. Mr. Nordenberg received his Bachelor of Arts 

degree from Thiel College and his Juris Doctorate degree 

from the University of Wisconsin School of Law. 
Skills and Expertise:< 
• Legal expertise 
• Leadership of a major research university 
• Experience in the operations and management of a 
large institution 
Catherine A. Rein 
Age 73 Independent Director of BNY Mellon and 
predecessor companies since 1981 
Retired Senior Executive Vice President and 
Chief Administrative Officer of MetLife, Inc. 
Committees: Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Executive Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: None Ms. Rein served as Senior Executive Vice President and 
Chief Administrative Officer of MetLife, Inc., an insurance 

and financial services company, from 2005 to 2008. Prior 

to that, Ms. Rein served as President and Chief Executive 

Officer of Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance 

Company from 1999 to 2005. Ms. Rein served in key 

leadership positions at MetLife, Inc. from 1985 to 1998. 

Ms. Rein served as a director of The Bank of New York 

from 1981 to 2007 and has served as a director of the 

company since 2007. 
Before joining MetLife, Ms. Rein served as vice president 
and general counsel for The Continental Group, Inc., a 

global diversified packaging company. Prior to that, she 

was associated with the New York City law firm of Dewey, 

Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood. Ms. Rein is an 

emeritus member of the Board of Visitors of the New York 

University Law School, previously chaired the MetLife 

Foundation, is a director emeritus of Corning Incorporated 

and served from 2001 to 2015 on the board of FirstEnergy 

Corp. Ms. Rein received a Bachelor of Arts degree from 

The Pennsylvania State University and a Juris Doctorate 

degree from New York University School of Law. 
Skills and Expertise:< 
• Leadership of a large public company in a highly 
regulated industry 
• Experience as general counsel 
• Senior-level policy-making experience in the insurance 

industry Leadership Technology Global Finance Governance Research Diversity 12 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Nominees@ 
Samuel C. Scott III 
Age 71 Independent Director of BNY Mellon and 
predecessor companies since 2003 
Retired Chairman, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Ingredion Incorporated 

(formerly Corn Products International, Inc.) 
Committees: Audit, Corporate Social Responsibility, Executive, Human Resources and Compensation (Chairman) Other Current Public Company Board 
Service: Abbott Laboratories; Motorola Solutions, Inc. Prior to his retirement in 2009, Mr. Scott served as 
Chairman (since 2001), Chief Executive Officer (since 2001) 

and President and Chief Operating Officer (since 1997) of 

Corn Products International, Inc., a leading global 

ingredients solutions provider now known as Ingredion 

Incorporated. Mr. Scott previously served as President of 

Bestfoods Corn Refining from 1995 to 1997 and President 

of American Corn Refining from 1989 to 1997. In addition 

to the public company board service noted above, 

Mr. Scott also serves on the boards of, among others, 

Chicago Sister Cities, Northwestern Medical Group, the 

Chicago Urban League and The Chicago Council on 

Global Affairs. Mr. Scott received both a Bachelor of 

Science degree and a Master in Business Administration 

degree from Fairleigh Dickinson University. Mr. Scott 

served as a director of The Bank of New York from 2003 to 

2007 and has served as a director of the company since 

2007. Skills and Expertise:< 
• Senior level policy-making experience in the food 
industry • Leadership of international company 
• Experience in the operations and management of a 

large public company 
Leadership Technology Global Finance Governance Research Diversity BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
13 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Nominees@ 
Director Qualifications< 
The CG&N Committee assists the Board in reviewing and 
identifying individuals qualified to become Board 

members. The CG&N Committee utilizes Board-

approved criteria, set forth in our Corporate Governance 

Guidelines (see “Helpful Resources” on page 87), in 

recommending nominees for directors at Annual 

Meetings and to fill vacancies on the Board. Directors 

chosen to fill vacancies will hold office for a term expiring 

at the end of the next Annual Meeting. 
In selecting nominees for election as directors, our CG&N Committee considers: •Z Professional background and experience
. The 
individual’s specific experience, background and 
education, including skills and knowledge essential to 

the oversight of the company’s businesses. 
•Z Senior-level management positions
. The individual’s 
sustained record of substantial accomplishments in 

senior-level management positions in business, 

government, education, technology or not-for-profit 

enterprises. •Z Judgment and Challenge
. The individual’s capability 
of evaluating complex business issues and making 

sound judgments and constructively challenging 

management’s recommendations and actions. 
•Z Diversity. The individual’s contribution to the diversity 
of the Board (in all aspects of that term), including 

diversity of viewpoint, professional experience, 

education, skills and other individual qualities and 

attributes that contribute to Board heterogeneity, as 

well as race, gender, national origin and sexual 

preference. •Z Intangible attributes
. The individual’s character and 
integrity and interpersonal skills to work with other 

directors on our Board in ways that are effective, 

collegial and responsive to the needs of the company. 
•Z Time. The individual’s willingness and ability to devote 
the necessary time and effort required for service on 

our Board. 
•Z Independence. The individual’s freedom from conflicts 
of interest that could interfere with their duties as a 

director. •Z Stockholders’ interests. The individual’s strong 
commitment to the ethical and diligent pursuit of 

stockholders’ best interests. 
The CG&N Committee seeks individuals with leadership 

experience in a variety of contexts and, among public 
company leaders, across a variety of industries. The 

CG&N Committee will evaluate all candidates suggested 

by other directors or third-party search firms (which the 

company retains from time to time, including over the 

past year, to help identify potential candidates) or 

recommended by a stockholder for nomination as a 

director in the same manner. For information on 

recommending a candidate for nomination as a director 

see “Contacting the Board’ on page 27. 
The Board and the CG&N Committee have concluded 
that each of our current Board members should be 

recommended for re-nomination as a director. In 

considering whether to recommend re-nomination of a 

director for election at our Annual Meeting, the Board 

and the CG&N Committee considered, among other 

factors: • The criteria for the nomination of directors 
described above, •Z Feedback from the annual Board and committee 
evaluations, •Z Attendance and preparedness for Board and 
committee meetings, 
•Z Outside board and other affiliations
, for actual or 
perceived conflicts of interest, 
• The overall contributions to the Board
, and 
• The needs of the company
. Our Board believes the nominees meet the criteria 

described above with diversity and depth and breadth of 

experience that enable them to effectively oversee 

management of the company. No director has a family 

relationship to any other director, nominee for director or 

executive officer. 
Richard J. Kogan and William C. Richardson, who were 
elected as directors at our 2015 Annual Meeting, will not 

be standing for re-election. The Board is grateful to each 

of Mr. Kogan and Dr. Richardson for his invaluable 

contributions as a director during his more than 17 years 

of service and nearly 20 years of service, respectively, to 

the company and The Bank of New York. Wesley W. von 

Schack, who was elected as director at our 2015 Annual 

Meeting, is resigning effective following our Annual 

Meeting. The Board is grateful to Mr. von Schack for his 

invaluable contributions as a director during his nearly 27 

years of service to the company and Mellon. The Board 

will miss the camaraderie, commitment and perspective 

of each of these departing directors. 
14 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Nominees@ 
Majority Voting Standard< 
Under our by-laws, in any uncontested election of 
directors, each director will be elected if more votes are 

cast “for” the director’s election than are cast “against” 

the director’s election, with abstentions and broker non-

votes not being counted as a vote cast either “for” or 

“against” the director’s election. A plurality standard will 

apply in any contested election of directors, which is an 

election in which the number of nominees for director 

exceeds the number of directors to be elected. Pursuant 

to our Corporate Governance Guidelines, if any 

incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes 

cast in any uncontested election, the director will be 

required to tender his or her resignation to the Lead 

Director (or such other director designated by the Board 

if the director failing to receive the majority of votes cast 

is the Lead Director) promptly after the certification of the 

stockholder vote. 
Our CG&N Committee will promptly consider the 
tendered resignation and recommend to the Board 

whether to accept or reject it, or whether other actions 

should be taken. In considering whether to accept or 

reject the tendered resignation, the CG&N Committee 

will consider whatever factors its members deem relevant, 

including any stated reasons for the “against” votes, the 

length of service and qualifications of the director whose 

resignation has been tendered, the director’s 

contributions to the company, and the mix of skills and 
backgrounds of the Board members. The Board will act 

on the CG&N Committee’s recommendation no later 

than 90 days following the certification of the election in 

question. In considering the recommendation of the 

CG&N Committee, the Board will consider the factors 

considered by the CG&N Committee and such additional 

information and factors as it deems relevant. 
Following the Board’s decision, the company will publicly 
disclose the Board’s decision in a Current Report on Form 

8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 

(“SEC”). If the Board does not accept the director’s 

resignation, it may elect to address the underlying 

stockholder concerns or to take such other actions as it 

deems appropriate and in the best interests of the 

company and its stockholders. A director who tenders his 

or her resignation pursuant to this provision will not vote 

on the issue of whether his or her tendered resignation 

will be accepted or rejected. If the Board accepts an 

incumbent director’s resignation pursuant to this 

provision, or if a nominee for director is not elected and 

the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board 

may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to our by-laws. If 

the Board does not accept an incumbent director’s 

resignation pursuant to this provision, he or she will 

continue to serve on the Board until the election of his or 

her successor. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
15 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information 
Our Corporate Governance Practices 
We believe that the strength of BNY Mellon’s business is a direct reflection of the high standards set by our governance 
structure. It provides guidance in managing the company from the Board of Directors on down for the benefit of all our 

stakeholders including our investors, clients, employees and communities. 
Independence • Our Board is comprised of all independent directors, other than our Chief Executive Officer, 
and our independent directors meet in 
executive sessions 
at each regularly scheduled 
Board and committee meeting. 
• Our independent Lead Director 
is selected by our independent directors and has broad 
powers, including approval of Board meeting agendas, materials and schedules and 
leading executive sessions. 
• We have seven standing committees made up entirely of 
independent directors
. Active Engagement • We have a high rate of director attendance 
at Board and committee meetings in 2015, 
averaging 90%. 
• We have continued to 
actively engage with our stakeholders 
through multiple initiatives, 
resulting in conversations with investors representing about 54% of our outstanding shares, 

as well as with proxy advisory firms and other stakeholders. 
• Our Board has publicly 
endorsed the Shareholder-Director Exchange (SDX) Protocol 
as a guide to support effective engagement between shareholders and directors. 
• Stockholders and other interested parties can 
directly contact our Board 
(see “Helpful Resources” on page 87). 
Ongoing Improvements • We recently amended our Corporate Governance Guidelines to require that the Corporate 

Governance and Nominating Committee 
rotate committee Chairmen 
at five-year intervals 
and consider enhanced director qualifications 
in connection with director nominations. 
• Following engagement with stockholders, we adopted 
proxy access 
permitting up to 20 
stockholders, who have owned at least 3% of our common stock for at least 3 years, to 

submit director nominees (up to 20% of the Board) if the stockholder(s) and nominee(s) 

satisfy the requirements in our by-laws. 
• Our by-laws permit holders in the aggregate of 20% of our outstanding common stock to 

call a special shareholder meeting
. • Each year, our Board and each of our Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, 

Corporate Social Responsibility, Finance, Human Resources and Compensation, Risk and 

Technology Committees conduct 
self-evaluations (see “Evaluation of Board and 
Committee Effectiveness” on page 17). 
• Our Board participates in Board 
information sessions 
during regularly scheduled and 
special meetings, during which they receive business updates from senior management, 

risk executives and our General Counsel. 
• Directors are encouraged to participate in 
continuing education 
programs and our 
company reimburses directors for such expenses. In addition, new directors participate in 

our director orientation program in their first six months as a director. 
Robust Programs • A significant portion of director compensation is paid in 
deferred stock units
, which must 
be held as long as the director serves on the Board. 
• We have adopted 
codes of conduct 
applicable to our directors, as well as all of our 
employees, to provide a framework for the highest standards of professional conduct and 

to foster a culture of honesty and accountability. 
16 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS > Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
What We 
Don’t Do 
• No staggered board. 
• No “poison pill” 
(stockholders’ rights plan). 
• No supermajority voting. 
Action by stockholders requires only a majority of the votes cast 
(not a majority of the shares present and entitled to vote). 
• No plurality voting 
in uncontested director elections. Each director must be elected by a 
majority of the votes cast. 
Corporate Governance Developments 
Our Board, led by our CG&N Committee, continually 
seeks to improve our governance structures, and has 

recently made the following enhancements: 
• Adopted proxy access by-law amendment, 
• Amended Corporate Governance Guidelines such that 
no committee chair shall serve in such capacity for 

more than five consecutive years, and 
• Expanded the description of Director Qualifications in 

the Corporate Governance Guidelines to reflect the 

robust criteria that the CG&N Committee considers in 

connection with prospective and re-nominated 

directors. During 2015, our Board elected new chairs to the Audit, 

CG&N and Risk Committees. We would anticipate the 

election of a new chair to the Corporate Social 

Responsibility and Human Resources and Compensation 

Committees in 2016. 
With the resignation of Mr. von Schack, effective 
following the Annual Meeting, our independent directors 

intend to elect Mr. Echevarria as Lead Director consistent 

with our Board’s succession planning. 
Evaluation of Board and Committee 
Effectiveness Annually, the Board and each of our Audit, CG&N, 
Corporate Social Responsibility, Finance, Human 

Resources and Compensation, Risk and Technology 

Committees conduct a self-evaluation to continually 

enhance performance. Each of the committee self-

evaluations is conducted in an executive session led by 

the Chairman of the committee. 
With respect to the Board’s self-evaluation, in the first 

quarter of each year, the Lead Director interviews each 

director to obtain his or her assessment of the 

effectiveness of the Board. Areas of consideration in the 

Board self-evaluations include director contribution and 

performance, Board structure and size, Board dynamics, 

the range of business, professional and other 

backgrounds of directors necessary to serve the company 

and the range and type of information provided to the 

Board by management. The Lead Director summarizes 

the individual assessments for discussion with the Board 

and, if necessary, committees. The Board and 

management then work together to enhance Board and 

committee effectiveness. 
Active Stockholder Engagement Program 
In 2015, our Board formally endorsed the SDX Protocol 

which offers guidance to public company boards and 

shareholders on when engagement is appropriate, and 

how to make these engagements valuable and effective. 

However, before this action we were effectively following 

that protocol while we conducted extensive governance 

reviews and investor outreach throughout the year. Our 

independent directors have been engaged in these 

outreach discussions, along with management, to ensure 

that management and our Board are aware of and 

consider stockholders’ perspectives on a variety of issues, 

including governance, strategy and performance, and 

address those matters effectively. For example, our Board 

decided to implement proxy access after considering 

feedback from stockholders regarding specific 

prospective provisions and the maturity of proxy access 

by-law amendments among public companies. 

Additionally, following feedback from stockholders 

regarding the mechanics of our annual Board and 

committee self-evaluation process, we have added 

enhanced our proxy statement to include discussion 

regarding this important process. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
17 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS > Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
Board Leadership Structure< 
Our Board has reviewed its current leadership structure — which consists of a combined Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer with an independent Lead Director — in light of the Board’s composition, the company’s size, the nature of the 

company’s business, the regulatory framework under which the company operates, the company’s stockholder base, the 

company’s peer group and other relevant factors. Our Board has determined that a combined Chairman and Chief 

Executive Officer position, with an independent Lead Director, continues to be the most appropriate Board leadership 

structure for the company. 
Efficient and 
Effective Action 
A combined Chairman/Chief Executive Officer: 
• Is in the 
best position to be aware of major issues 
facing the company on a day-to-day 
and long-term basis, and to identify and bring key risks and developments facing the 
company to the Board’s attention (in coordination with the Lead Director as part of the 

agenda-setting process), and 
• Eliminates the potential for uncertainty as to who leads the company, providing the 
company with 
a single public “face” 
in dealing with stockholders, employees, regulators, 
analysts and other constituencies. 
A substantial majority of our peers also utilize a similar board structure with a combined 

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as well as a lead or presiding independent director. 
Strong Counterbalances As set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Lead Director: 
• In coordination with the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, 
reviews and approves agendas 
for Board meetings, materials and information sent or presented to the Board and meeting 
schedules, • Has the authority to add items to the agenda for any Board meeting, 
• Presides at executive sessions 
of independent directors, which are held at each regular 
Board and committee meeting, 
• Serves as a non-exclusive 
liaison between the other independent directors 
and the 
Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, 
• Can 
call meetings of the independent directors 
in his discretion and chairs any meeting 
of the Board or stockholders at which the Chairman is absent, 
• Is available to 
meet with major stockholders and regulators 
under appropriate 
circumstances, and 
• In conjunction with the chairman of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee 
(“HRC Committee”), discusses with the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer the Board’s 
annual evaluation of his performance as Chief Executive Officer
. In addition, the powers of the Chairman under our by-laws are limited — other than chairing 

meetings of the Board and stockholders, the powers conferred on the Chairman (
e.g., ability 
to call special meetings of stockholders or the Board) can also be exercised by the Board or a 

specified number of directors or, in some cases, the Lead Director, or are administrative in 

nature (
e.g., authority to execute documents on behalf of the company). 
18 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
Director Independence< 
Our Board has determined that 10 of our 11 director 
nominees are independent. Our independent director 

nominees are Nicholas M. Donofrio; Joseph J. Echevarria; 

Edward P. Garden; Jeffrey A. Goldstein; John M. 

Hinshaw; Edmund F. “Ted” Kelly; John A. Luke, Jr.; Mark 

A. Nordenberg; Catherine A. Rein and Samuel C.@ 
Scott III. As our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,@ 

Gerald L. Hassell is not independent. The Board has also@ 

determined that Mr. Kowalski, who did not stand for@ 

reelection as a director last year, was independent during@ 

the period in 2015 in which he served as a director, and@ 

that Mr. Kogan and Dr. Richardson, who are not standing@ 

for reelection as directors this year, and Mr. von Schack,@ 

who is resigning effective following our Annual Meeting,@ 

are independent.@ 
Our Standards of Independence 
For a director to be considered independent, our Board 

must determine that the director does not have any direct 

or indirect material relationship with us. Our Board has 

established standards (which are also included in our 

Corporate Governance Guidelines) based on the 

specified categories and types of transactions, which 

conform to, or are more exacting than, the independence 

requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE. 
Our Board will also determine that a director is not 
independent if it finds that the director has material 

business arrangements with us that would jeopardize that 

director’s judgment. In making this determination, our 

Board reviews business arrangements between the 

company and the director and between the company and 

any other company for which the director serves as an 

officer or general partner, or of which the director directly 

or indirectly owns 10% or more of the equity. Our Board 

has determined that these arrangements will not be 

considered material if: 
• they are of a type that we usually and customarily offer 
to customers or vendors; 
• they are on terms substantially similar to those for 

comparable transactions with other customers or 

vendors under similar circumstances; 
• in the event that the arrangements had not been made 

or were terminated in the normal course of business, it 

is not reasonably likely that there would be a material 

adverse effect on the financial condition, results of 

operations or business of the recipient; or 
• in the case of personal loans, the loans are subject to 

and in compliance with Regulation O of the Board of 

Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
Our Board may also consider other factors as it may 

deem necessary to arrive at sound determinations as to 

the independence of each director, and such factors may 

override the conclusion of independence or non-

independence that would be reached simply by reference 

to the factors listed above. 
In determining that each of the directors, other than 
Mr. Hassell, is independent, our Board reviewed these 

standards, the corporate governance rules of the NYSE 

and the SEC, and the individual circumstances of each 

director. The following categories or types of transactions, 
relationships and arrangements were considered by the 

Board in determining that a director is independent. 

None of these transactions, relationships and 

arrangements rose to the level that would require 

disclosure under our related party transactions policy 

described on page 84, and none of the transactions 

described below were in an amount that exceeded the 

greater of $1 million or 2% of the other entity’s 

consolidated gross revenues, which is one of our 

standards for director independence: 
•Z Purchases of goods or services in the ordinary course of business. The company and its subsidiaries 
purchased goods and services from the following 
organizations during a period in 2015 when one of our 

current or former independent directors served as an 

executive officer of, or was otherwise employed by, 

such organization: Hewlett Packard Enterprise 

Company and its predecessor Hewlett-Packard 

Company (Mr. Hinshaw); Tiffany & Co. (Mr. Kowalski); 

and the University of Pittsburgh (Mr. Nordenberg). All 

of these purchases were made in the ordinary course of 

business. These purchases, when aggregated by seller, 

did not exceed 0.04% of the seller’s annual revenue for 

its last reported fiscal year or 0.14% of our annual 

revenue for 2015. 
•Z Sales of goods or services in the ordinary course of business. The company and its subsidiaries provided 
various financial services – including asset management 

services, asset servicing, global markets services, issuer 

services, treasury services, leasing, liquidity investment 

services or credit services – to the following 

organizations during a period in 2015 when one of our 

current or former independent directors served as an 

executive officer of, or was otherwise employed by, 

such organization: Trian Fund Management L.P. (Mr. 

Garden); Hellman & Friedman LLC (Mr. Goldstein); 

Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and its 

predecessor Hewlett-Packard Company (Mr. Hinshaw); 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
19 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
Tiffany & Co. (Mr. Kowalski); MeadWestvaco 
Corporation (Mr. Luke); and the University of Pittsburgh 

(Mr. Nordenberg). All of the services were provided in 

the ordinary course of our business and at prevailing 

customer rates and terms. The amount of fees paid to 

us by each purchaser was less than 0.20% of the 

purchaser’s annual revenue for its last reported fiscal 

year and less than 0.03% of our annual revenue for 

2015. •Z Customer relationships. We and our subsidiaries 
provide ordinary course services, including asset 

management services, banking services, broker services 

and credit services, to Messrs. Kowalski, Luke, 

Nordenberg and Richardson and Ms. Rein, in each case 

on terms substantially similar to those offered to other 

customers in similar circumstances. 
•Z Charitable contributions. We made (directly, through 
our subsidiaries or by the BNY Mellon Foundation or 

the BNY Mellon Foundation of Southwestern 

Pennsylvania) charitable contributions to not-for-profit, 

charitable or tax-exempt organizations for which one of 

our independent directors served as a director, 

executive officer or trustee during 2015, namely 

Messrs. Donofrio, Echevarria, Goldstein, Hinshaw, 

Kogan, Nordenberg, Richardson, Scott and von 

Schack. In 2015, charitable contributions to these 

organizations totaled approximately $450,000 in the 

aggregate, and no organization received a contribution 

greater than $142,000. 
•Z Beneficial ownership or voting power. In the ordinary 
course of our investment management business, we 

beneficially own or have the power to vote (directly or 

through our subsidiaries or through funds advised by 

our subsidiaries) shares of companies for which one of 

our independent directors served as an executive 

officer in 2015, namely Hewlett Packard Enterprise 

Company (Mr. Hinshaw) and MeadWestvaco 

Corporation (Mr. Luke, until July 1, 2015). As of 

December 31, 2015, we, our subsidiaries or funds 

advised by our subsidiaries, in the aggregate, owned 

or had the power to vote less than 1.06% of the 

outstanding shares of Hewlett Packard Enterprise 

Company. As of June 30, 2015, the last day on which 

Mr. Luke was an executive officer of MeadWestvaco 

Corporation, we, our subsidiaries or funds advised by 

our subsidiaries, in the aggregate, owned or had the 

power to vote less than 1.78% of the outstanding 

shares of such company. In addition, as of March 31, 

2015, the last day on which Mr. Kowalski was an 

executive officer of Tiffany & Co., we, our subsidiaries 

or funds advised by our subsidiaries, in the aggregate, 

owned or had the power to vote less than 0.91% of the 

outstanding shares of such company. 
Our Board determined that none of the transactions, 

relationships and arrangements described above 

constituted a material relationship between the 

respective director and our company or its subsidiaries 

for the purpose of the corporate governance rules of the 

NYSE and SEC and our Corporate Governance 

Guidelines. As such, our Board determined that these 

transactions, relationships and arrangements did not 

affect the independence of such director and did not 

impair such director’s ability to act in the stockholders’ 

best interests. 
20 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information 
Oversight of Risk 
Successful management of our company requires understanding, identification and management of risk. We oversee risk 
through multiple lines of defense. 
Entity Risk Committee, 
consisting entirely of 

independent directors 
Primary Responsibilities for Risk Management 
• Review and approval of the enterprise-wide risk management practices of the company. 
• Review and approval of the company’s risk appetite statement on an annual basis, and 
approval of any material amendment to the statement. 
• Review of significant financial and other risk exposures and the steps management has 
taken to monitor, control and report such exposures. 
• Evaluation of risk exposure and tolerance, and approval of Board level limits or exceptions. 

• Review and evaluation of the company’s policies and practices with respect to risk 
assessment and risk management. 
• Review, with respect to risk management and compliance, of (1) reports and significant 
findings of the company’s Risk Management and Compliance department (the “Risk 
department”) and the Internal Audit department (“Internal Audit”), (2) significant reports 

from regulatory agencies and management’s responses, and (3) the Risk department’s 

scope of work and its planned activities. 
Audit Committee, 

consisting entirely of independent 
directors • Review and discussion of policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management. 
• Oversight responsibility with respect to the integrity of our company’s financial reporting 
and systems of internal controls regarding finance and accounting, as well as our financial 
statements. • Review of the Risk Committee’s annual report summarizing its review of the company’s 
methods for identifying and managing risks. 
• Review of the Risk Committee’s semi-annual reports regarding corporate-wide compliance 
with laws and regulations. 
• Review of any items escalated by the Risk Committee that have significant financial 
statement impact or require significant financial statement/regulatory disclosures. 
Management • Chief Risk Officer
: Implement an effective risk management framework and daily oversight 
of risk. 
• Internal Audit
: Provide reliable and timely information to our Board and management 

regarding our company’s effectiveness in identifying and appropriately controlling risks. 
• Senior Risk Management Committee: 
Provide a senior focal point within the company to 
monitor, evaluate and recommend comprehensive policies and solutions to deal with all 

aspects of risk and to assess the adequacy of any risk remediation plans in our company’s 

businesses. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
21 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
We also encourage robust interactions among the 
different parties responsible for our risk management. 

Since the financial crisis emerged in September 2008, the 

Risk and Audit Committees of our Board have held joint 

sessions at the beginning of each of their regular 

meetings to hear reports and discuss key risks affecting 

our company and our management of these risks. 
All independent directors are typically present during 
joint sessions, because all independent directors are 

currently members of either our Risk or Audit Committee. 

In addition, the Risk Committee reviews the appointment, 

performance and replacement of our Chief Risk Officer, 

and the Senior Risk Management Committee’s activities, 

and any significant changes in its key responsibilities, 

must be reported to the Risk Committee. Our company 

has also formed several risk management sub[

committees to identify, assess and manage risks. Each 

risk management sub-committee reports its activities to 

the Senior Risk Management Committee and any 

significant changes in the key responsibilities of any sub[

committee, or a change in chairmanship of any sub[

committee, must be approved by our Chief Risk Officer 

and subsequently reported to the Senior Risk 

Management Committee. 
Our company also has a comprehensive internal risk 

framework, which facilitates risk oversight by our Risk 

Committee. Our risk management framework is 

designed to: 
• provide that risks are identified, monitored, reported, 
and priced properly; 
• define and measure the type and amount of risk the 

company is willing to take; 
• communicate the type and amount of risk taken to the 

appropriate management level; 
• maintain a risk management organization that is 

independent of risk-taking activities; and 
• promote a strong risk management culture that 

encourages a focus on risk-adjusted performance. 
Our primary risk exposures as well as our risk 

management framework and methodologies are 

discussed in further detail on pages 69 through 74 in our 

2015 Annual Report. See “How We Address Risk and 

Control” on page 53 below for a discussion of risk 

assessment as it relates to our compensation program. 
Board Meetings and Committee Information 
Board Meetings 
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that our directors are expected to attend our Annual Meeting of 

stockholders and all regular and special meetings of our Board and committees on which they sit. All of our directors 

then in office attended our 2015 Annual Meeting of stockholders. 
Our Board held 17 meetings in 2015. Each incumbent director attended at least 75% of the aggregate number of 
meetings of our Board and of the committees on which he or she sat, and the average attendance rate was 90%. 
Committees and Committee Charters 
Our Board has established several standing committees, and each committee makes recommendations to our Board as 

appropriate and reports periodically to the entire Board. Our committee charters are available on our website (see 

“Helpful Resources” on page 87). 
22 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
Audit Committee Independent 12 Meetings in 2015 Joseph J. Echevarria (Chair), Richard J. Kogan, John A. Luke, Jr.,< 
Mark A. Nordenberg, Catherine A. Rein, William C. Richardson, Samuel C. Scott III< 
Independent Registered Public Accountant. 
Our Audit Committee has direct 
responsibility for the appointment, compensation, annual evaluation, retention and 
oversight of the work of the independent registered public accountants engaged to 

prepare an audit report or to perform other audit, review or attestation services for us. 

The Committee is responsible for the pre-approval of all audit and permitted non-audit 

services performed by our independent registered public accountants and each year, the 

Committee recommends that our Board request stockholder ratification of the 

appointment of the independent registered public accountants. 
Overseeing Internal Audit Function. 
The Committee acts on behalf of our Board in 
monitoring and overseeing the performance of our internal audit function. The Committee 
reviews the organizational structure, qualifications, independence and performance of 

Internal Audit and the scope of its planned activities, at least annually. The Committee 

also approves the appointment of our internal Chief Auditor, who functionally reports 

directly to the Committee and administratively reports to the CEO, and annually reviews 

his or her performance and, as appropriate, replaces the Chief Auditor. 
Internal Controls over Financial Statements and Reports. 
The Committee oversees the 
operation of a comprehensive system of internal controls covering the integrity of our 
financial statements and reports, compliance with laws, regulations and corporate 

policies. Quarterly, the Committee reviews a report from the company’s Disclosure 

Committee and reports concerning the status of our annual review of internal control over 

financial reporting, including (1) information about (a) any significant deficiencies or 

material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting 

that are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and 

report financial information and (b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves 

management or other employees who have a significant role in our internal control over 

financial reporting, and (2) management’s responses to any such circumstance. The 

Committee also oversees our management’s work in preparing our financial statements, 

which will be audited by our independent registered public accountants. 
Members and Financial Expert. 
The Committee consists entirely of directors who meet 
the independence requirements of listing standards of the NYSE, Rule 10A-3 under the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and the rules and 

regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). All members are 

financially literate and have accounting or related financial management expertise within 

the meaning of the NYSE listing standards as interpreted by our Board. Our Board has 

determined that each of Mr. Echevarria and Ms. Rein satisfies the definition of “audit 

committee financial expert” as set out in the rules and regulations under the Exchange 

Act, based upon their experience actively supervising a principal accounting or financial 

officer or public accountant. All members have “banking and financial management 

expertise” as set out in the FDIC’s rules and regulations. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
23 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
Corporate Governance and 
Nominating Committee Independent 4 Meetings in 2015 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee Independent 3 Meetings in 2015 Executive Committee 0 Meetings in 2015 Finance Committee Independent 5 Meetings in 2015 William C. Richardson (Chair), Richard J. Kogan, John A. Luke, Jr., 
Mark A. Nordenberg, Catherine A. Rein, Wesley W. von Schack 
Corporate Governance Matters. 
As further described on page 14, our CG&N Committee 
assists our Board of Directors in reviewing and identifying individuals qualified to become 
Board members. The Committee periodically considers the size of our Board and 

recommends changes to the size as warranted and is responsible for developing and 

recommending to our Board our Corporate Governance Guidelines and proposing 

changes to these guidelines from time to time as may be appropriate. In addition, the 

Committee oversees evaluations of our Board and its committees, reviews the structure 

and responsibilities of the Board’s committees and annually considers committee 

assignments, recommending changes to those assignments as necessary. 
Oversight of Director Compensation and Benefits. 
The Committee reviews non-
employee director compensation and benefits on an annual basis and makes 
recommendations to our Board on appropriate compensation, and is responsible for 

approving compensation arrangements for non-employee members of the Boards of our 

significant subsidiaries. 
Mark A. Nordenberg (Chair), Nicholas M. Donofrio, Joseph J. Echevarria, 
Samuel C. Scott III 
Our Corporate Social Responsibility Committee’s purpose is to promote a culture that 
emphasizes and sets high standards for corporate citizenship and to review corporate 

performance against those standards. The Committee is responsible for providing 

oversight of the company’s programs regarding strategic philanthropy and employee 

community involvement, public policy and advocacy, including lobbying and political 

contributions, environmental management, corporate social responsibility of suppliers, 

corporate social responsibility governance and reporting and human rights. The 

Committee also provides oversight for the company’s compliance with the Community 

Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending laws and considers the impact of the company’s 

businesses, operations and programs from a social responsibility perspective, taking into 

account the interests of stockholders, clients, suppliers, employees, communities and 

regulators. For additional information regarding the company’s commitment to corporate social 
responsibility and the Committee’s recent initiatives, see “Helpful Resources” on page 87. 
Wesley W. von Schack (Chair), Nicholas M. Donofrio, Gerald L. Hassell, 
John A. Luke, Jr., Catherine A. Rein, Samuel C. Scott III 
The Executive Committee, as with each of our other standing committees, is appointed 
annually by the Board. The Committee generally has, as permitted by law and except as 

limited by the Board, the powers and may exercise all the authority of the Board during 

intervals between Board meetings. Unlike our other committees, the Executive Committee 

is only required to meet as frequently as necessary to fulfill its duties and responsibilities. 
Jeffrey A. Goldstein (Chair), Joseph J. Echevarria, Edward P. Garden 
The Finance Committee was established in February 2015 as a standing committee of the 
Board to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with respect to the monitoring and 

oversight of the company’s financial resources and strategies. The Committee’s 

responsibilities and duties include reviewing: (1) financial forecasts, operating budgets, 

capital expenditures and expense management programs and progress relative to targets 

and relative to competitors; (2) plans with regard to net interest revenue, investment 

portfolio activities and progress relative to such plans and activities; (3) the company’s 

capital structure, capital raising and capital distributions; and (4) any initiatives, including 

investments, mergers, acquisitions, and dispositions, that exceed the thresholds in our 

Corporate Governance Guidelines and, as necessary, making recommendations to the 

Board regarding those initiatives. 
24 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
Human Resources and 
Compensation Committee Independent 8 Meetings in 2015 Samuel C. Scott III (Chair), Edward P. Garden, Jeffrey A. Goldstein, John M. Hinshaw, 
Edmund F. Kelly, Richard J. Kogan, Wesley W. von Schack 
Compensation and Benefits. 
The HRC Committee is generally responsible for overseeing 
our employee compensation and benefit policies and programs, our management 
development and succession programs, the development and oversight of a succession 

plan for the CEO position and our diversity and inclusion programs. The Committee also 

administers and makes equity and/or cash awards under plans adopted for the benefit of 

our employees to the extent required or permitted by the terms of these plans, 

establishes any related performance goals and determines whether and the extent to 

which these goals have been attained. The Committee also evaluates and approves the 

total compensation of all other executive officers and makes recommendations 

concerning equity-based plans, which recommendations are subject to the approval of 

our entire Board. The Committee also oversees certain retirement plans that we sponsor 

to ensure that: (1) they provide an appropriate level of benefits in a cost-effective manner 

to meet our needs and objectives in sponsoring such plans; (2) they are properly and 

efficiently administered in accordance with their terms to avoid unnecessary costs and 

minimize any potential liabilities to us; (3) our responsibilities as plan sponsor are satisfied; 

and (4) financial and other information with respect to such plans is properly recorded and 

reported in accordance with applicable legal requirements. 
CEO Compensation. The Committee reviews and approves corporate goals and 
objectives relevant to the compensation of our CEO, his performance in light of those 
goals and objectives, and determines and approves his compensation on the basis of its 

evaluation. With respect to the performance evaluation and compensation decisions 

regarding our CEO, the Committee reports its preliminary conclusions to the other 

independent directors of our full Board in executive session and solicits their input prior to 

finalizing the Committee’s decisions. 
Delegated Authority. 
The Committee has delegated to our CEO the responsibility for 
determining equity awards to certain employees, other than himself, who are eligible to 
receive grants under our Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). This delegated authority is 

subject to certain limitations, including: (1) total aggregate shares represented by plan 

awards in any calendar year (1,100,000), (2) aggregate shares represented by plan awards 

that may be granted to any one individual in any calendar year (100,000), and (3) a sub-

limit of shares represented by full value awards that may be granted in any calendar year 

(550,000). In addition, the Committee may delegate limited authority to our CEO to grant 

awards under the LTIP beyond these limits in connection with specific acquisitions or 

similar transactions. 
Management Involvement. 
Our management provides information and 
recommendations for the Committee’s decision-making process in connection with the 
amount and form of executive compensation, except that no member of management will 

participate in the decision-making process with respect to his or her own compensation. 

The “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” starting on page 32 discusses the role of 

our CEO in determining or recommending the amount and form of executive 

compensation. In addition, we address the role of our management and its independent 

compensation consultants and the role of the Committee’s independent outside 

compensation advisor in determining and recommending executive compensation on 

page 26. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
25 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
Risk Committee Independent 5 Meetings in 2015 Technology Committee Independent 2 Meetings in 2015 Edmund F. Kelly (Chair), Nicholas M. Donofrio, Edward P. Garden, 
Jeffrey A. Goldstein, John M. Hinshaw, Wesley W. von Schack 
See “Oversight of Risk” on page 21 above for a discussion of the Risk Committee’s duties 
and responsibilities, which include: (1) review and approval of enterprise-wide risk 

management practices; (2) review and approval of the company’s risk appetite statement; 

(3) review of significant financial and other risk exposures; (4) evaluation of risk exposure 
and tolerance; (5) review and evaluation of the company’s policies and practices with 

respect to risk assessment and risk management; and (6) review, with respect to risk 

management and compliance, of certain significant reports. 
Nicholas M. Donofrio (Chair), John M. Hinshaw, Edmund F. Kelly, 
Mark A. Nordenberg 
Technology Planning and Strategy. 
The Technology Committee is responsible for 
reviewing and approving the company’s technology planning and strategy, reviewing 
significant technology investments and expenditures, and monitoring and evaluating 

existing and future trends in technology that may affect our strategic plans, including 

monitoring overall industry trends. The Committee receives reports from management 

concerning the company’s technology and approves related policies or recommends such 

policies to the Board for approval, as appropriate. The Committee also oversees risks 

associated with technology. 
Compensation Consultants to the HRC Committee< 
The HRC Committee has the sole authority to retain, 

terminate and approve the fees and other engagement 

terms of any compensation consultant directly assisting 

the committee, and may select or receive advice from any 

compensation consultant only after taking into 

consideration all factors relevant to the consultant’s 

independence from management, including the factors 

set forth in the NYSE’s rules. 
The HRC Committee has engaged Compensation 
Advisory Partners LLC (“CAP”) to serve as its 

independent compensation consultant since March 2014. 

As discussed in greater detail in the “Compensation 

Discussion and Analysis” beginning on page 32 below, 

throughout the year, CAP assists the committee in its 

analysis and evaluation of compensation matters relating 

to our executive officers. CAP reports directly to the 

committee, attends the in-person and telephonic 

meetings of the committee, and meets with the 

committee in executive session without management 

present. CAP also reviews and provides input on 

committee meeting materials and advises on other 

matters considered by the committee. 
The HRC Committee annually reviews the independence 

of its compensation consultant. CAP works with 

management in executing its services to the committee, 

but does not provide services to management without 

pre-approval by the committee Chairman. In addition, 

CAP maintains, and has provided to the committee, a 

written policy designed to avoid, and address potential, 

conflicts of interest. 
In 2015, neither CAP nor its affiliates provided any 
services to the company other than serving as the HRC 

Committee’s independent compensation consultant. The 

committee considered the Company’s relationship with 

CAP, assessed the independence of CAP pursuant to 

SEC and NYSE rules and concluded that there are no 

conflicts of interest that would prevent CAP from 

independently representing the committee. 
26 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Corporate Governance and Board Information@ 
Succession Planning 
We have succession plans and processes in place for our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, each of our Vice 
Chairmen, President, and for the team of approximately 700 global senior leaders. Our senior management succession 

planning process is an organization-wide practice designed to proactively identify, develop and retain the leadership 

talent that is critical for future business success. 
The succession plan for our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is reviewed regularly by the HRC Committee and the 
other independent directors. The plan identifies a “readiness” level and ranking for each internal candidate and also 

incorporates the flexibility to define an external hire as a succession option. Formal succession planning for the rest of 

our senior leaders is also a regular process, which also includes identifying a rank and readiness level for each potential 

internal candidate and also strategically planning for external hires for positions where, for example, gaps are identified. 

The HRC Committee and the Board review the succession plans for all management Executive Committee positions. 
Contacting the Board 
Interested parties may send communications to our Board or our independent directors or any Board committee through 

our Lead Director in accordance with the procedures set forth on our website (see “Helpful Resources” on page 87). 
Our Corporate Secretary is authorized to open and review any mail or other correspondence received that is addressed 
to the Board or any individual director unless the item is marked “Confidential” or “Personal.” If so marked and 

addressed to the Board, it will be delivered unopened to the Lead Director. If so marked and addressed to an individual 

director, it will be delivered to the addressee unopened. If, upon opening an envelope or package not so marked, the 

Corporate Secretary determines that it contains a magazine, solicitation or advertisement, the contents may be 

discarded. Any written communication regarding accounting matters to our Board of Directors are processed in 

accordance with procedures adopted by the Audit Committee with respect to the receipt, review and processing of, and 

any response to, such matters. 
In addition, all directors are expected to attend each Annual Meeting of stockholders. While our by-laws, consistent with 
Delaware law, permit stockholder meetings to occur by remote communication, we intend this to be used only in exigent 

circumstances. Our Board believes that an in-person Annual Meeting provides an important opportunity for stockholders 

to ask questions. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
27 ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Director Compensation@ 
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that 
compensation for our independent directors’ services 

may include annual cash retainers; shares of our common 

stock; deferred stock units or options on such shares; 

meeting fees; fees for serving as a committee chair; and 

fees for serving as a director of one of our subsidiaries. 

We also reimburse directors for their reasonable out-of[

pocket expenses in connection with attendance at Board 

meetings. In the case of airfare, directors are reimbursed 

for their travel expenses not exceeding the first-class 

commercial rate. In addition, corporate aircraft and 

charter aircraft may be used for directors in accordance 

with the company’s aircraft usage policy. Directors will 

also be reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket 

expenses (including tuition and registration fees) relating 

to attendance at seminars and training sessions relevant 

to their service on the Board and in connection with 

meetings or conferences which they attend at the 

company’s request. 
Each year, the CG&N Committee is responsible for 
reviewing and making recommendations to the Board 

regarding independent director compensation. The 

CG&N Committee annually reviews independent director 

compensation to ensure that it is consistent with market 

practice and aligns our directors’ interests with those of 

long-term stockholders while not calling into question the 

directors’ objectivity. In undertaking its review, the CG&N 

Committee utilizes benchmarking data regarding 

independent director compensation of the company’s 

peer group based on public filings with the SEC, as well 

as survey information analyzing independent director 

compensation at U.S. public companies. 
Based on its review, each year since 2014, the CG&N 
Committee has recommended, and the Board has 

approved, an annual equity award with a value of 

$130,000 for each independent director. The annual 

equity award is in the form of deferred stock units that 

vest on the earlier of one year after the date of the award 

or on the date of the next Annual Meeting of 

stockholders, and must be held for as long as the director 

serves on the Board. The units accrue dividends, which 

are reinvested in additional deferred stock units. For 

2015, this award of deferred stock units was granted 

shortly after the 2015 Annual Meeting for directors 

elected or re-elected at such meeting and, similarly, for 

2016, this award will be granted shortly after the 2016 

Annual Meeting for directors elected or re-elected at 

such meeting. 
For 2015, our independent directors received an annual 

cash retainer of $110,000, payable in quarterly 

installments in advance. In addition, the chair of the HRC 

Committee received an annual cash retainer of $25,000, 

the chairs of the Audit Committee and the Risk 

Committee each received an annual cash retainer of 

$30,000, the chairs of all other committees each received 

an annual cash retainer of $20,000, each member of the 

Audit Committee and the Risk Committee received an 

annual membership fee of $10,000, and our Lead 

Director received an annual cash retainer of $50,000. 
In addition, under our Corporate Governance Guidelines, 
by the fifth anniversary of their service on the Board, 

directors are required to own a number of shares of our 

common stock with a market value of at least five times 

the annual cash retainer of $110,000. We believe that our 

independent director compensation is consistent with 

current market practice, recognizes the critical role that 

our directors play in effectively managing the company 

and responding to stockholders, regulators and other key 

stakeholders, and will assist us in attracting and retaining 

highly qualified candidates. In the case of Mr. Garden, 

the CG&N Committee determined that holdings of our 

securities by Trian (other than hedged or pledged 

securities) shall be deemed to be beneficially owned by 

Mr. Garden for purposes of this stock ownership 

requirement, given his relationship with Trian and that he 

transfers to Trian, or holds for the benefit of Trian, his 

security holdings. 
In the merger we assumed the Deferred Compensation 
Plan for Non-Employee Directors of The Bank of New 

York (the “Bank of New York Directors Plan”) and the 

Mellon Elective Deferred Compensation Plan for 

Directors (the “Mellon Directors Plan”). Under the Bank of 

New York Directors Plan, participating legacy The Bank of 

New York directors continued to defer receipt of all or 

part of their annual retainer and committee fees earned 

through 2007. Under the Mellon Directors Plan, 

participating legacy Mellon directors continued to defer 

receipt of all or part of their annual retainer and fees 

earned through 2007. Both plans are nonqualified plans, 

and neither plan is funded. 
Although the Bank of New York Directors Plan and the 
Mellon Directors Plan continue to exist, all new deferrals 

of director compensation by any of the independent 

directors have been made under the Director Deferred 

Compensation Plan, which was adopted effective as of 

January 1, 2008. Under this plan, an independent director 

can direct all or a portion of his or her annual retainer or 

other fees into either (1) variable funds, credited with 

gains or losses that mirror market performance of market 

style funds or (2) the company’s phantom stock. 
28 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
> Director Compensation 
Director Compensation Table 
The following table provides information concerning the compensation of each independent director who served in 
2015. Mr. Hassell did not receive any compensation for his service as a director. Mr. Garden has advised us that, 

pursuant to his arrangement with Trian, he transfers to Trian, or holds for the benefit of Trian, all director compensation 

paid to him. 
Name Fees Earned or 
Paid in Cash($) 
Stock Awards($)(5) Change in Pension Value 
and Nonqualified 
Deferred Compensation Earnings(6) All Other 
Compensation($)(7) Total($) Nicholas M. Donofrio
(1) $152,200 $129,997 $— $940 $283,137 Joseph J. Echevarria
(1)(2) $124,700 $129,997 $— $— $254,697 Edward P. Garden 
$145,721 $129,997 $— $— $275,718 Jeffrey A. Goldstein
(1) $137,778 $129,997 $— $— $267,775 John M. Hinshaw
(1) $127,200 $129,997 $— $— $257,197 Edmund F. Kelly 
$169,400 $129,997 $— $— $299,397 Richard J. Kogan
(3) $130,000 $129,997 $— $— $259,997 Michael J. Kowalski
(4) $53,903 $— $— $385 $54,288 John A. Luke, Jr. 
$140,000 $129,997 $— $— $269,997 Mark A. Nordenberg 
$155,400 $129,997 $3,780 $3,405 $292,582 Catherine A. Rein 
$152,500 $129,997 $— $2,025 $284,522 William C. Richardson
(3) $170,421 $129,997 $— $941 $301,359 Samuel C. Scott III 
$164,000 $129,997 $— $514 $294,511 Wesley W. von Schack
(1)(3) $196,600 $129,997 $46,596 $5,083 $378,276 (1) Elected to defer all or part of cash compensation in the Director Deferred Compensation Plan. 
(2) Mr. Echevarria was appointed as a director effective January 30, 2015. 
(3) Mr. Kogan and Dr. Richardson are retiring and are not standing for re-election at our Annual Meeting. Mr. von Schack is resigning, effective following our Annual 
Meeting. (4) Mr. Kowalski did not stand for re-election as a director at our 2015 Annual Meeting. 
(5) Amount shown represents the aggregate grant date fair value computed in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification 
(or “FASB ASC”) 718 Compensation-Stock Compensation for 3,053 deferred stock units granted to each independent director in April 2015, using the valuation 
methodology for equity awards set forth in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

As of December 31, 2015, each of Messrs. Donofrio, Goldstein, Kelly, Kogan, Luke, Nordenberg, Richardson, Scott, and von Schack and Ms. Rein owned 3,089 unvested 

deferred stock units. 
(6) The amounts disclosed in this column for Messrs. Nordenberg and von Schack represent the sum of the portion of interest accrued (but not currently paid or payable) on 

deferred compensation above 120% of the applicable federal long-term rate at the maximum rate payable under the Mellon Directors Plan. Under the Mellon Directors 

Plan, deferred amounts receive earnings based on (i) the declared rate, reflecting the return on the 120-month rolling average of the 10-year T-Note rate enhanced 

based on years of service and compounded annually, (ii) variable funds, which are credited with gains or losses that “mirror” the market performance of market-style 

funds or (iii) the company’s phantom stock. The fully enhanced declared rate for 2015 was 4.58%. The present value of Ms. Rein’s accumulated pension benefit under The 
Bank of New York Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors decreased by $13,695 due to a change in the FASB ASC 715 discount rate used to calculate the pension 
value. Ms. Rein is the only current director who participates in this plan. Participation in this plan was frozen as to participants and benefit accruals as of May 11, 1999. 
(7) The amounts disclosed for Messrs. Donofrio, Richardson and Scott and Ms. Rein reflect the amount of a 5% discount on purchases of phantom stock when dividend 

equivalents are reinvested under the Bank of New York Directors Plan. The amounts disclosed for Messrs. Nordenberg and von Schack reflect the estimated cost of the 
legacy Mellon Directors’ Charitable Giving Program, which remains in effect for them and certain other legacy Mellon directors. Upon such legacy Mellon director’s 
death, the company will make an aggregate donation of $250,000 to one or more charitable or educational organizations of the director’s choice. The donations are paid 

in 10 annual installments to each organization. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
29 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
Quick Reference Guide< 
RESOLUTION Page 31 
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
Page 32 
Introduction Page 32Our Performance Page 35Compensation of Our Named Executives Page 36Our Pay Practices Page 46How We Address Risk and Control Page 53Report of the HRC Committee Page 53EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION TABLES 
Page 54 
Summary Compensation Table Page 54Grants of Plan-Based Awards Page 56Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Page 57Option Exercises and Stock Vested Page 59Pension Benefits Page 59Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Page 61Potential Payments upon Termination or Change in Control Page 6230 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
  ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Resolution@ 
Proposal We highly value dialogue and engagement with our stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, clients and the 
communities we serve, with respect to our executive compensation program. Consistent with that, and in accordance 

with SEC rules, we are asking stockholders to approve the following resolution: 
RESOLVED, that the stockholders approve the 2015 compensation of the named executive officers, as disclosed in 
this proxy statement pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K of the Securities and Exchange Commission (including 

the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the compensation tables and other narrative executive compensation 

disclosures). Background • Since our 2009 Annual Meeting, we have provided 

stockholders with an advisory vote on our executive 

compensation program each year. At last year’s Annual 

Meeting, over 95% of the votes cast approved our 2014 

executive compensation. 
• We have continued our annual investor outreach process in 

2015, resulting in our having conversations with investors 

representing about 54% of our outstanding shares as well as 

with proxy advisory firms and other stakeholders. 
• Our approach to compensation continues to be designed to 
The Board of 
Directors unanimously 
recommends that you vote 
“FOR” the approval of the 
2015 compensation of our 
named executive officers. 
directly link pay to performance, balance corporate and@ 

individual performance, promote long-term stock ownership@ 

and balance risk and reward, while taking into consideration market trends and practices as well as stakeholder@ 

feedback to refine our program.@ 
Voting Your vote on this resolution is an advisory vote. Although the Board is not required to take any action in response to the 

stockholder vote, the Board values our stockholders’ opinions. As in prior years, the Board intends to evaluate the results 

of the 2016 vote carefully when making future decisions regarding the compensation of our named executive officers. 

At our 2011 Annual Meeting, we provided stockholders with an advisory vote with respect to how often the company 

should hold a say-on-pay vote, and 86% of the votes cast voted in favor of holding such a vote annually. Consistent with 

the voting results, we intend to hold an advisory vote each year on our executive compensation program until the next 

stockholder advisory vote on its frequency, which we expect will occur at our 2017 Annual Meeting. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
31 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis@ 
Introduction Organization and Key Considerations 
Our Performance (see page 35) Compensation of Our Named 
Executives (see pages 36 to 45) Our Pay 
Practices (see pages 46 to 52 ) How We/ 
Address/ Risk and/ 
Control/ (see page 53) •Our 2015 performance is on track 
to meet the three-year performance goals BNY Mellon set at its Investor Day in October 2014. •Operating EPS was $2.85
, 11% above operating plan of $2.57 and representing 19% year-over=year growth •Adjusted Return on Tangible Common Equity improved to 21% 
(vs. 18% in 2014)* •Adjusted Revenue growth of 2% (to $15.1 billion)
, slightly below our operating plan* •Adjusted Pre-Tax Operating Margin improved to 31% 
(vs. 28% in 2014)* •Adjusted operating leverage of 420 basis points
, exceeding the target 
by 263 basis points •Relative stock returns were strong
, with both 1-and
 3-year TSR outperforming the median of our peer group and the S&P 500 Financials Index •Continued disciplined expense control, with adjusted noninterest expense $335 million better 
than operating plan 
and lower than 2014* •Returned $3.115 billion to shareholders
, with $2.355 billion in stock repurchases
 and $760 million in dividends •For 2015, deferred equity (RSUs and PSUs) comprise 86% of our CEO’s target incentive compensation and 69% of target incentive compensation for our other NEOs (up from 60% in 2014), promoting long-term alignment with our stockholders 
•The HRC Committee established long-term incentive metrics for our February 2015 PSU Award to focus management on OEPS growth from 2015 to 2017, consistent with our Investor Day 
performance goals 
•In calculating the annual incentive for our CEO and other NEOs, the HRC Committee recognized our strong 2015 operating performance 
but exercised its discretion to limit the corporate component to reflect the quality of our 2015 performance •Starting in 2016, total incentive compensation determinations will be made under a “one decision” model, rather than two decisions for annual and long-term components, more closely tying award 
values to performance 
by increasing upside and downside program leverage •Directly link pay to performance •Use a balanced approach for annual incentives and promote long-term stock ownership •Reflect good corporate governance and practices (e.g., no tax gross-ups on severance and no hedging) •Obtain regular feedback from stockholders on governance and performance matters through annual outreach process •Review of our risk appetite, practices and employee compensation plans 
(1) for alignment with sound risk management by our Chief Risk Officer and the HRC Committee and (2) to directly link pay to appropriate risk-taking •Comprehensive recoupment policy 
that subjects all equity incentives to 100% forfeiture during the vesting period and all cash incentives to 100% claw back within three years following the award date •Achievement of Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio 
on a fully phased-in basis of at least 8.5% calculated under the Advanced Approach as a condition for funding annual incentives * For a reconciliation and explanation of these non-GAAP measures, as well as information on the calculation of operating earnings per share and adjusted operating 
leverage for compensation purposes, see Annex A. 
32 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
– ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
Our 2015 Performance 
On Track to Achieve Our Investor Day Goals 
Investor Day Goals 
Operating Basis: 
2015 2017
1 “Flat” Rate Scenario2 “Normalizing” Rate Scenario
3 2015 Performance4 Adjusted Revenue Growth 
3.5 – 4.5% 6 –8% 2% Operating EPS Growth 
7 – 9% 12 –15% 19% Adjusted Return on Tangible Common Equity 
17 – 19% 20 –22% 21% 1 As announced on October 28, 2014. Compounded annual growth rate for 2015-2017.2 Assumes (A) “flat” rate scenario NIM of 95-100 bps, (B) operating margin of 28-30% and (C) no deterioration in volatility, volume and short-terminterest rates. 3 Assumes (A) “normalizing” rate scenario NIM of 125-150 bps and (B) operating margin of 30-32%. 4 For a reconciliation and explanation of these non-GAAP measures, see Annex A. TSR Exceeded Peers Returned S
ignificant Operating EPS Exceeded Budget 10% 8% 6% 4% 3.3% 2% (3.5%) (0
.2%)0% -2% -4% -6% -8% -10% 1-Year Value to Shareholders 
100% in common dividends$760M in common + $2.355B stock 
repurchases $3.50 $3.2580% 69.4% $3.00 $2.85 58.1% $2.7560% $2.57 $2.5045.4% 40% $2.25 $2.00 20% returned to stockholders= $3.115B $1.75 $1.500% Budget Actual 
3-Year S&P Financials Index Peer Group Median BNYM CEO Total Direct Compensation
1 (in $ millions) 
Target2 Remained Flat Compensation Awarded2 Target Meaningfully For 2013 Through 2015 Tied Directly to Performance Below Peer Group Median 20 18 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 1.0 1
.0 1
.0 8.4 8
.4 8
.4 3.6 13 13 13 
11.7 3.6 3
.6 1.0 6.2 12.7 1.0 8.1 3.6 4.5 17.2 1.0 12.1 4.1 14.6 2013 2014 2015 
2013 2014 2015 
2015@ Base Salary@ Annual Incentive Long-Term Incentive Peer Group Median Total Compensation 1 Total Direct Compensation reflects salary, annual incentive and long-term incentive for the applicable year. 2 Target and award determinations reflect (1) salary rate for the year, (2) annual incentive, which is based on performance during the year and ultimately
 awarded after year-end and (3) long-term incentive, which is granted after year-end and after adjusting for performance during the year. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
33 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis@ 
Our Pay Practice 
2015 Program Enhancements< 
What we do: 
What we don’t do: Objective 
Enhancement Directly link pay toperformanceBalance risk and reward in compensation Require sustained financial performance to earn full amount of long-term awards Use a balanced approach for annual incentives with both corporate and individual goals Promote long-term stock ownership through deferred equity compensation Require compliance with stock ownership guidelines and post-vest holding requirements Subject equity awards and cash incentives to recoupment and forfeiture policies Engage an independent compensation consultant Conduct a robust stockholder outreach program No excessive change=in-control or other severance benefits No single-trigger change-in-control 
benefits No change-in-control tax gross-ups No excessive perquisites or benefits No tax gross-ups on perquisites No hedging or short sales of our stock No stock options granted with an exercise price below market No stock options with reload provisions No repricing of underwater stock options Strengthen tie between 
pay and 
performance Emphasize long-term, sustainable growth Promote long-term alignment with stockholders Limit pension 
benefit accruals • For the 2015 annual incentive corporate component,
 focused management on operating earnings per share (OEPS) and adjusted operating leverage, weighted 75% and 25% respectively • For the 2015 annual incentive, separated individual component into (1) business unit goals, which use quantitative measures to establish a payout range, and (2) an individual modifier, which allows the HRC Committee to modify an award by up to ±25% • Revised long-term incentive metrics to focus on OEPS growth from 2015 to 2017, consistent with the goals presented at our 2014 Investor Day, with the potential of a negative risk modifier should risk-weighted assets grow at an unacceptable rate • Increased the portion of 2015 annual incentive that is deferred in the form of RSUs from 57% to 80% for our CEO and from 43% to 55% for our other named executives (also applied retroactively to 2014 CEO compensation) • U.S. defined benefit pension plans frozen effective June 30, 2015 How We Address Risk and Control< 
Regular Review of 
Compensation Plans and Practices 
Direct Link Between 
Pay and Risk-Taking 
Comprehensive Recoupment Policy 
Annual Incentive 
Funding Condition 
Our Chief Risk Officer and the HRC Committee review our risk appetite, practices and employee compensation plans for alignment with sound risk management. + We directly link pay to appropriate risk-taking through the use of a risk scorecard in determining our named executives’ earned annual incentive and in considering potential downward adjustments to target long-term incentives. + We have a comprehensive recoupment policy that subjects all equity incentives to 100% forfeiture during the vesting period, and all cash incentives to 100% claw back within three years following the award date, based on risk assessments. + As a condition for funding our annual incentives, we must achieve a Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio of at least 8.5% on a fully phased-in basis. 34 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis@ 
Our Performance< 
Our GAAP EPS (earnings per diluted common share) increased year-over-year by 26% from $2.15 to $2.71, which is 10% 
above our GAAP plan of $2.46. OEPS, reflecting GAAP EPS as adjusted for significant items, including litigation, 

restructuring and impairment charges in excess of plan, was $2.85, representing a year-over-year increase of 19% and an 

11% increase above our operating plan of $2.57. 
Our Return on Tangible Common Equity increased year-over-year from 18% to 21%*, which is on track to meet our 
three-year Investor Day Goals. Furthermore, although 2015 adjusted revenue increased 2% (to $15.1 billion*), below our 

operating plan of $15.2 billion, we are still positioned to achieve our three-year Investor Day Goals. Our revenue 

performance, when coupled with strong operating expense control, resulted in net income of $3.1 billion, or $3.2 billion* 

as adjusted for the impairment charge related to a recent court decision, litigation and restructuring charges. 
In 2015, we achieved positive adjusted operating leverage of 420 basis points, which exceeded our target by 168%, or 
263 basis points. Additionally, Adjusted Pre-Tax Operating Margin improved to 31%* from 28% in 2014. 
In 2015 and over the past three years, our total shareholder return (TSR) outperformed the median of our peer group and 
the S&P Financials Index as a whole. Our 2015 TSR was at the 63
rd percentile when compared to both our peer group 
and the S&P Financials Index, and our 3-year TSR was at the 63
rd and 75
th percentiles when compared to our peer group 
and to the S&P Financials Index, respectively. 
In 2015, we repurchased 55.6 million common shares for approximately $2.4 billion and distributed $760 million in 
dividends, returning significant value to our stockholders. 
We also continue to maintain our strong capital position and further strengthen our balance sheet, remaining a safe and 
trusted business partner to our clients. Our estimated Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio calculated under the 

Advanced Approach on a fully phased-in basis was 9.5%* at December 31, 2015, exceeding the fully phased-in 

requirements plus applicable buffers of 8.5%. 
* For a reconciliation and explanation of these non-GAAP measures, as well as information on the calculation of OEPS and adjusted operating leverage for compensation purposes, see Annex A. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
35            
  
      ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis@ 
Compensation of Our Named Executives< 
2015 Target Total Direct Compensation Structure 
BASE SALARY 
• About 8% of target total d
irect compensat
ion • Sole fixed source of cash compensation RSUs 
PSUs 
Cash 
ANNUAL INCENTIVE 
• 70% of target total 
incent
ive compensat
ion (and 64% of target total direct compensation) • 80% of the annual 
incent
ive for our CEO (and 
55% for our other named execut
ives) 
is deferred 
in the form of RSUs that vest 
in equal 
installments over three years 
• Using a “balanced scorecard,” may earn between 0 – 150% of target 
• As a condition of funding, subject to a threshold Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio of at least 8.5% on a fully phased-in basis • Cash d
ividend equ
ivalents accrued and pa
id only at vest
ing 2015 Incentive Compensation Awarded
(1) LONG-TERM INCENTIVE 
• 30% of target total 
incent
ive compensat
ion (and 28% of target total direct compensation) • Three-year performance share un
its • Granted annually based on pr
ior-year 
risk scorecard results and strateg
ic milestones • May earn between 0 – 125% based 
on OEPS growth over the 2016 – 2018 
performance period and modified downward should r
isk-we
ighted assets 
grow at an unacceptable rate 
• Dividend equ
ivalents are re
invested and 
paid only at vest
ing based on performance 
DEFERRED EQUITY 
• Through our long-term 
incent
ive award 
and the RSU component of our annual 

incent
ive, 86% of target total 
incent
ive compensat
ion for our CEO (and 
69% for our other named execut
ives) 
is in deferred equity and 
is sub
ject to forfe
iture 
based on annual r
isk assessments 
Executive Cash ANNUAL INCENTIVE RSUs Awards as 
% of Target 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PSUs Award as 
% of Target 
DEFERRED EQUITY 
(RSUs & PSUs) AS 
% of Total 
Incentive Gerald L. Hassell 
Chairman & CEO $2,419,200 $9,676,800 144% $4,140,000 115% 85% Thomas P. (Todd) Gibbons 

Vice Chairman & CFO $2,426,760 $2,966,040 144% $1,845,750 115% 67% Curtis Y. Arledge
(2) Vice Chairman & CEO of Investment Management $3,364,200 $4,111,800 80% $3,204,000 80% 69% Karen B. Peetz 

President $1,647,726 $2,013,887 120% $1,305,000 100% 67% Brian T. Shea 

Vice Chairman & CEO of Investment Services $2,459,646 $3,006,234 145% $1,863,000 115% 66% 1The amounts reported above differ substantially from the amounts determined under SEC rules as reported for 2015 in the Summary Compensation Table set
 forth on page 54. The above table is not a substitute for the Summary Compensation Table set forth on page 54. 2Mr. Arledge is no longer serving as Vice Chairman and CEO of Investment Management, and his employment with BNY Mellon is scheduled to terminate on March
 23, 2016. As a result, Mr. Arledge is eligible to vest only in a pro-rated amount of his 2015 long-term incentive award, as further discussed on page 51. 36 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
1 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
2015 Target Compensation 
In the first quarter of each year, the HRC Committee considers competitive data, executive position and level of responsibility and, for executives other than our CEO, our CEO’s recommendation, and establishes target total direct compensation for each executive. Targets are reviewed annually but only adjusted if determined appropriate by the HRC Committee. Name Hassell Salary $1,000,000 Annual Incentive 
$8,400,000 Long-Term Incentive 
$3,600,000 Total Target Direct Compensation
1 $13,000,000 Gibbons $650,000 $3,745,000 $1,605,000 $6,000,000 Arledge $650,000 $9,345,000 $4,005,000 $14,000,000 Peetz $650,000 $3,045,000 $1,305,000 $5,000,000 Shea $600,000 $3,780,000 $1,620,000 $6,000,000 For 2015, compared to the prior year, total target direct compensation was increased for Mr. Shea by $1 million (including a salary increase from $550,000 to $600,000 effective July 1, 2015) and decreased for Ms. Peetz by $1 million to align with their current responsibilities. 2015 Annual Incentive 
Minimum Funding Requirement 
A Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio of at least 8.5% on a fully phased-in basis was established as a minimum funding 
requirement for our annual incentive, with such percentage equal to the regulatory threshold ratio to which we expect to 

be held on a fully phased-in basis, including estimated buffers. 
Payment of annual incentives is conditioned upon our meeting this goal. This threshold funding goal was met, with an 
estimated Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio of 9.5%* at December 31, 2015, calculated under the Advanced 

Approach on a fully phased-in basis. 
Balanced Scorecard Highlights 
We have used a “balanced scorecard” approach for our annual incentive since 2009. Our approach is designed to be a 

comprehensive analysis of corporate and individual performance determined in the discretion of the HRC Committee. 

Our balanced scorecard provides for the following: 
•Z Corporate Component. 
The corporate component of the balanced scorecard focuses management on OEPS and 
adjusted operating leverage, weighted 75% and 25% respectively. The HRC Committee has discretion within the 
corporate component payout range to consider the impact of market conditions, relative performance, risk-based 

results and other important factors. 
•Z Individual Component. 
The individual component of the balanced scorecard is separated into (1) a business unit 
goal (as applicable) based on pre-tax income to establish a payout range, and (2) an individual modifier, which allows 

the HRC Committee to modify an award by up to ±25% to recognize and differentiate individual actions and 

contributions in final pay decisions. The HRC Committee has the discretion to reduce the individual component 

based on an assessment of the individual’s risk profile. 
Earned awards cannot exceed 150% of the individual’s target award. Earned awards are paid out in a combination of 

cash and RSUs deferred over three years. For 2015, 80% of our CEO’s annual incentive was deferred in the form of RSUs 

and 55% was deferred for our other named executives (up from 43% in 2014). 
* For a reconciliation and explanation of this non-GAAP measure, see Annex A. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
37 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis@ 
– – 
– Individual Target 
Award 
Individual Modifier Annual 
Incentive Award 
Corporate 
Component Payout 
Percentage 
Bus
iness 
Unit Payout 
Percentage 
Cash 
RSUs 
Weighting Risk Assessment 
Weighting + x x =x (if appl
icable) 
x For Messrs. Hassell and Gibbons, the corporate component weighting was 100% due to their role as the Company’s CEO and CFO, respectively. For Ms. Peetz, the corporate component and business unit were weighted 75% and 25%, respectively, due to her role as the Company’s President as well as the sizable impact her role has on the investment services business. For Messrs. Arledge and Shea, the corporate component and business unit were weighted equally (50% each) due to their roles as the head of our investment management and investment services businesses, respectively. Corporate Component Payout 
The same corporate component goals apply to each named executive officer. In February 2015, the HRC Committee 
determined to focus management on OEPS and adjusted operating leverage, weighted 75% and 25% respectively. 

The HRC Committee and management view these metrics as aligned with our strategy and appropriate for measuring 

annual performance. The HRC Committee retains the discretion to determine the corporate component payout within 

the incentive payout ranges set forth below and also retains the discretion to consider other factors (including significant, 

unusual items, market conditions and interest rate environment) in assessing the strength of the Company’s OEPS and 

adjusted operating leverage achievements. 
OEPS is defined as reported earnings per share excluding merger and integration, restructuring, litigation expense and 
other significant, unusual items added or subtracted at the HRC Committee’s discretion. Adjusted operating leverage is 

defined as the percentage change in operating revenue growth less operating expense growth for the same period 

(with revenue and expense items calculated on the same basis as the calculations for OEPS). 
•Z OEPS (weighted 75%). 
Our 2015 OEPS budget was set at $2.57 and, in February 2015, the HRC Committee 
established the guidelines below for a range of incentive payouts. These guidelines include the intended upside and 
downside leverage, which is the amount by which each percentage point difference between our budgeted and 

actual OEPS is magnified to determine the OEPS payout portion of the corporate component. 
OEPS Percent of Budget ($2.57) 
Payout Range as a 
Percent of Target 
Intended Leverage 
<$2.18 <85% 0% $2.18 – $ 2.57 85% – 100% 40% –100% 4:1 $ 2.57 – $3.08 100% – 120% 85% – 150% 3:1 >$ 3.08 >120% 150% Our actual 2015 OEPS was $2.85 and 11% above our operating budget, resulting in a payout range of 85% to 150% 

for the OEPS payout portion of the corporate component. The HRC Committee determined that a payout of 

approximately 133% in respect of the OEPS payout portion of the corporate component was appropriate, which 

reflects a payment of 3 percentage points above target for each percentage point by which actual 2015 OEPS 

exceeded our operating budget (consistent with our intended leverage shown above). 
38 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
•Z Adjusted Operating Leverage (weighted 25%). 
In February 2015, the HRC Committee determined that the 
adjusted operating leverage portion of the corporate component would be earned at 100% if adjusted operating 
leverage is equal to, or more than, 100 basis points and at 0% if it is less than 100 basis points. For 2015, our 

adjusted operating leverage was 420 basis points, resulting in full payment with respect to the adjusted operating 

leverage portion. 
The OEPS payout of 133%, weighted 75% of the total corporate component payout, and the adjusted operating 

leverage payout of 100%, weighted 25% of the total corporate component payout, yielded a corporate component 

payout of 125%. The HRC Committee then exercised its discretion to limit the corporate component payout to 120% to 

reflect the quality of our 2015 performance. 
Individual Component (Business Unit Payout and Individual Modifier) 
In February 2015, the HRC Committee approved the pre-tax income goal for each business unit and determined to apply 

the same intended leverage ratios as those applicable to the OEPS portion of the corporate component, as set forth 

above. At that time, the HRC Committee also approved individual strategic and leadership objectives for our CEO, after 

discussion with the other independent directors, and for our other named executive officers, which were set by our CEO 

after discussion with the HRC Committee. None of the individual strategic and leadership objectives had any specific 

weighting and are intended to be used, together with other information the HRC Committee determines relevant, to 

develop a holistic evaluation of individual performance. The HRC Committee may modify the annual incentive award that 

is determined by applying the corporate component payout and, if applicable, the business unit payout by up to ±25% 

based on individual performance, except that the final modified award may not exceed 150% of the individual’s target 

award. In the first quarter of 2016, the HRC Committee evaluated 2015 performance for each named executive against the 
business unit pre-tax income goal, if applicable, and applied an individual modifier based on, among other factors, the 

approved individual strategic and leadership objectives. For Mr. Hassell, the HRC Committee reviewed his performance 

self-assessment, obtained feedback from each independent director, and finalized its decision after reporting its 

preliminary evaluation to the other independent directors and soliciting their input. For each of the other named 

executive officers, the HRC Committee reviewed his or her performance self-assessment, considered Mr. Hassell’s 

recommendation and summary of performance, and finalized its decision after soliciting input from the other 

independent directors. 
In determining the annual incentive modifier for Mr. Hassell, the HRC Committee considered 
the following key items: 
•Strategic Achievements: met or exceeded key • Leadership Achievement: 
continued to enhance our financial metric targets, developed and executed performance-based culture, demonstrated corporate strategies to achieve our Investor Day considerable progress in building a robust leadership Goals, executed strategic priorities and adjusted pipeline for the future, further streamlined our business model to realign markets group and executive team and the company, made a number of accelerate profitable growth for Investment Services, strategic and diverse hires and led development of led initiatives to transform targeted business lines and improved talent, succession and development drove improvements to numerous risk management planning initiatives Based on the above, the HRC Committee approved a modifier of 120% for Mr. Hassell. 
120% c
orporate 
component payout 
100% we
ighting 120% individual modifier 144% of target 
earned 
=x x BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
39   ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
In determining the annual incentive modifier for Mr. Gibbons, the HRC Committee considered 
the following key items: 
•Strategic Achievements: achieved targets for key • Leadership Achievement: 
implemented talent components of our operating plan, executed finance management tools and processes to support reengineering target cost reduction program, led company-wide performance and development analysis of corporate discretionary spending to initiatives, advanced our diversity and inclusion reduce non-essential costs and enhanced internal agenda and continued to evolve business line risk controls over regulatory reporting management initiatives Based on the above, the HRC Committee approved a modifier of 120% for Mr. Gibbons. 
120% c
orporate 
component payout 
100% we
ighting 120% individual modifier 144% of target 
earned 
=x x In determining the annual incentive for Mr. Arledge, the HRC Committee considered the< 

following key items: 
•Z Business Unit Payout: 
Our 2015 budgeted pretax 
income for the investment management business unit 
was $1.218 billion and, in February 2015, the HRC 

Committee established the guidelines below: 
Percent of Budget 
($1.223 billion) 
Payout Range 
as a Percent of Target 
<85% 0% 85% – 100% 
40% – 100% 
100% – 120% 
85% – 150% 
>120% 150% Our actual achievement was $1.145 billion, 

representing 94% of budget (or 96% of budget on a 

constant currency basis), resulting in a payout range of 

40% to 100%. The HRC Committee determined that a 

business unit payout percentage of 80% was 

appropriate. 
•Strategic Achievements: continued to refine the Investment Management business model and distribution strategy, achieved lower-than-expected returns on strategic initiatives, underperformed relative to peers;
 and responsible for the Markets Group (which had above-plan performance) •Leadership Achievement: 
oversaw development and implementation of business unit risk plans, actively supported various employee resource initiatives,
 implemented talent management tools and processes to support company-wide performance and development initiatives and advanced our diversity and inclusion agenda Based on the above strategic and leadership achievements, the HRC Committee approved a modifier of 80% for 
Mr. Arledge. 
120% co
rporate 
component 
payout 
80% business 
unit payout 
50% 
weighting 50% 
weighting 80% individual modifier 80% of 
target 
earned 
x x+ x = 40: BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
   ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
In determining the annual incentive for Ms. Peetz, the HRC Committee considered the 
following key items: 
•Z Business Unit Payout: 
Our 2015 budgeted pretax 
income for the investment services business unit was 
$3.160 billion and, in February 2015, the HRC 

Committee established the guidelines below: 
Percent of Budget 
($3.152 billion) 
Payout Range 
as a Percent of Target 
<85% 0% 85% – 100% 
40% – 100% 
100% – 120% 
85% – 150% 
>120% 150% Our actual achievement was $3.390 billion, 

representing 107% of budget (or 108% of budget on a 

constant currency basis), resulting in a payout range of 

85% to 150%. The HRC Committee determined that a 

business unit payout percentage of 121% was 

appropriate. 
•Strategic Achievements: 
drove improvements to our competitive positioning, collaborated to develop and implement Investment Services’ client coverage improvements and led company-wide revenue-generating and key cross-company regulatory initiatives •Leadership Achievement: 
implemented talent management tools and processes to enhance development and retention of top talent and improve performance levels across the company and led risk management initiatives including developing risk plans for the treasury services and credit services businesses and identifying and globally implementing best practices Based on the above strategic and leadership achievements, the HRC Committee approved a modifier of 100% for 
Ms. Peetz. 
120% co
rporate 
component 
payout 
121% business 
unit payout 
75% 
weighting 25% weight
ing 100% individual modifier 120% of 
target 
earned 
x x+ x = In determining the annual incentive for Mr. Shea, the HRC Committee considered the following< 
key items: 
• Business Unit Payout: 
As described above, the HRC 
• Leadership Achievement: 
implemented talent Committee determined that a business unit payout 
management tools and processes while maintaining percentage of 121% was appropriate for the 
our performance-based culture and advanced our risk investment services business unit. 
management agenda • Strategic Achievements: achieved or surpassed various financial targets for the investment services business unit, led business unit transformation process, successfully executed strategic platform investments to improve financial performance, drove multiple strategic growth initiatives for Investment Services and analyzed and executed business portfolio reviews Based on the above strategic and leadership achievements, the HRC Committee approved a modifier of 120% for 
Mr. Shea. 
120% co
rporate 
component 
payout 
121% business 
unit payout 
50% 
weighting 50% 
weighting 120% individual modifier 145% of 
target 
earned 
x x+ x = BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
41 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
Risk Assessment 
We adopted the use of a risk scorecard in 2011 to formally connect compensation and risk-taking. The risk scorecard 
takes into account liquidity, operational, reputational, market, credit and technology risk categories by measuring: 
•Z maintenance of an adequate compliance program, including adhering to our compliance rules and programs; 
•Z protection of the company’s reputation, including reviewing our business practices to ensure that they comply 
with laws, regulations and policies, and that business decisions are free from actual or perceived conflicts; 
•Z management of operational risk, including managing operational losses and maintaining proper controls; 
•Z compliance with all applicable credit, market and liquidity risk limits, including understanding and monitoring risks 

associated with relevant businesses and new client acceptance, as well as appropriately resolving or escalating risk 

issues to minimize losses; and 
•Z meeting Internal Audit expectations, including establishing an appropriate governance culture, achieving acceptable 

audit results and remediating control issues in a timely manner. 
The HRC Committee’s review of the risk scorecard results for each named executive was taken into account by the HRC 

Committee in determining each of the corporate and individual components of the balanced scorecard. The HRC 

Committee has the ability to reduce or fully eliminate the annual incentive award if the risk scorecard result is significantly 

below expectation. No downward adjustments were made for 2015. 
42: BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
2015 Long-Term Incentive 
We consider the PSU award made in February 2016 to be part of 2015 compensation. In February 2016, in determining 
the 2015 long-term incentive grants, our HRC Committee applied the following adjustment process to the target 

amounts previously set and communicated to our named executives in February 2015. The process can result in a PSU 

grant adjustment of up to ±25% based on annual performance and strategic objectives and a downward adjustment of 

up to 100% based on risk results. 
•Z Performance Results. 
Target long-term incentive 
award amounts were first subject to adjustment based 
on the HRC Committee’s review of 2015 annual 

performance against the corporate, business unit (if 

applicable) and individual goals of each executive’s 

2015 annual incentive balanced scorecard. 
Performance Results 
Adjustment Less than 90% of target 
0% to -25% 
Between 90% and 110% of target 
0% More than 110% of target 
0% to + 25% 
•Z Strategic Objectives. The amount also may be modified, upward or downward, by up to an additional 25% in the 
HRC Committee’s discretion after considering strategic assessments of each named executive and priorities for the 

company. The total reduction or increase cannot be greater than 25%. 
•Z Risk Scorecard Results. 
Target long-term incentive award amounts are also subject to downward adjustment of up 
to 100% based on the risk scorecard results, which measure compliance with risk metrics. Negative adjustments 

under the guidelines are cumulative, and no positive adjustment may be applied if the risk scorecard result is lower 

than acceptable risk tolerance. 
The initial target award for Mr. Arledge was adjusted downward by 20% and the initial target award for each of Messrs. 

Hassell, Gibbons and Shea was adjusted upward by 15%, reflecting 2015 operating performance and individual 

performance results described on pages 39-41. As a result, the calculated long-term incentive awards were as follows: 
Name Award as % of Target 
PSUs Granted 
Hassell 115% 117,147 Gibbons 115% 52,228 Arledge 80% 90,662 Peetz 100% 36,926 Shea 115% 52,716 In calculating the number of PSUs to grant, the HRC Committee divided the value of PSUs awarded by $35.34, the 

average closing price of our common stock on the NYSE for the 15 trading days from January 14, 2016 through 

February 4, 2016, to mitigate the impact of short-term volatility in our stock price. 
Outstanding Long-Term Equity Incentives 
In 2013, we reintroduced PSUs as our long-term performance vehicle. The PSUs are granted each year and any earned 

PSUs cliff vest after the end of three-year performance periods based on continued service with certain exceptions. The 

PSUs granted in 2013, 2014 and 2015 are earned between 0 – 125% based on the achievement of performance metrics. 

Granting awards annually with overlapping, multi-year performance periods allows the HRC Committee to annually 

review and update, as appropriate, the structure and performance metrics that we use in our PSU program. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
43 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
February 2015 PSU Award 
As discussed in last year’s proxy statement, in February 2015, the HRC Committee granted PSUs to each of our named 
executives based on target values, as adjusted based on prior-year risk scorecard results and strategic milestones and 

after shifting 2014 pay mix to long-term incentives to emphasize long-term, sustainable growth. We consider the 

February 2015 PSU award to be part of 2014 compensation. The February 2015 PSUs are earned based on 2017 OEPS, 

with the potential of a negative risk modifier should risk-weighted assets (“RWA”) grow at an unacceptable rate. 
In particular, to emphasize our focus on pay for performance, the HRC Committee pre-established two sets of 2017 
OEPS targets (one set for a “normalizing” scenario, where interest rates move a minimum of 100 basis points during the 

three-year performance period, and one set for an alternative “flat” scenario) both scenarios of which are consistent with 

the goals presented at our 2014 Investor Day: 
2017 OEPS in a “Normalizing” 
Rate Scenario 
2017 OEPS in a “Flat” Rate Scenario 
Earnout Payout Range 
>$3.63 >$3.10 125% $ 3.36 – $3.63 
$2.93 – $3.10 
75% – 125% 
<$3.36 <$2.93 0 – 75% 
Compound Annual Growth 
Rate of RWA 
Risk-Based Modifier 
>9% 0 – 75% 
9% – 7% 75% – 100% 
<7% 100% The actual percentage of PSUs that are earned will be 

determined in the HRC Committee’s discretion within the 

payout range set forth above. In addition, the percentage 

may be adjusted downward by a risk-based modifier should 

risk-weighted assets grow at an unacceptable rate during 

the three-year performance period as set forth below: 
For 2015, our OEPS was $2.85 and the one-year growth rate of our RWA was 3.97%. 

Our long-term incentive PSU awards are illustrated below: 
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 
Earned at 87% 
February based on RRWA 
2013 PSU 
of 1.42% against 
Award a target of 1.6% 
Earned at 98% 
Earned at 117% 
based on RRWA 
based on RRWA 
cliff vested of 1.57% against 
of 1.83% against 
in 2016 a target of 1.6% 
a target of 1.6% 
February 2014 PSU 
Award Earned at 67% 
based on RRWA 
of 1.57% against 
a target of 2.0% 
Earned at 87% 
based on RRWA 
of 1.83% against 
a target of 2.0% 
To be earned 
based on 
RRWA target 
of 2.0% 
cliff vestsin 2017 based oncontinued serviceFebruary 2015 PSU 
Award OEPS, with the potential of a negative risk modifier 
should risk-weighted assets grow at an unacceptable rate 
cliff vestsin 2018 based oncontinued serviceFebruary 2016 PSU 
Award OEPS, with the potential of a negative risk modifier 
should risk-weighted assets grow at an 
unacceptable rate 
cliff vestsin 2019 based oncontinued servicePrior to the February 2015 grant, PSUs were earned in separate tranches over each year of the performance period 
based on return on risk-weighted assets (“RRWA”). RWA is defined as, for each fiscal year, the simple average of the 

preceding four quarter-end risk-weighted assets (estimated on a fully phased-in basis in Basel III using the Advanced 

Approach) based on existing assumptions at the commencement of the performance period and as reported in the 

company’s SEC filings. RRWA is generally defined as net income available to common stockholders, adjusted for capital 

charges on acquisitions as incurred, divided by the simple average of quarter-end risk-weighted assets (estimated per 

Basel III, based on assumptions and approaches existing at the commencement of the performance period as reported 

in our reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K). 
44 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
Reduction or Forfeiture in Certain Circumstances 
The company may cancel all or any portion of the PSUs (as well as the RSUs that constitute a portion of our named 
executives’ annual incentive award), if, directly or indirectly, the named executive (1) engages, or is discovered to have 

engaged, in conduct that is materially adverse to the company’s interests during his or her employment, (2) violates 

certain non-solicitation or non-competition restrictions during his or her employment and for a certain period thereafter, 

(3) violates any post-termination obligation or duties owed to the company or (4) has received, or may receive, 
compensation that is required to be forfeited and/or repaid to the company pursuant to applicable regulatory 

requirements. In addition, in the event that the named executive’s risk scorecard rating is lower than acceptable risk 

tolerance, any unvested PSUs (as well as unvested RSUs) will be subject to review and potential forfeiture, as determined 

by our HRC Committee. 
Other Compensation and Benefits Elements 
Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plans 
After the merger in 2007, we assumed certain existing arrangements affecting the provision of retirement benefits to our 

named executives, maintaining qualified and non-qualified defined benefit and defined contribution plans in which 

eligible employees, including our named executives, may participate. Our named executives are eligible to participate in 

deferred compensation plans, which enable eligible employees to defer the payment of taxes on a portion of their 

compensation until a later date. To limit pension accruals, we previously froze all accruals under the Legacy BNY SERP as 

of December 31, 2014 and under our other U.S. defined benefit pension plans (including the BNY Mellon Tax-Qualified 

Retirement Plan and the Legacy BNY Excess Plan) as of June 30, 2015. For a description of these plans and our named 

executive officers’ participation therein, see “Pension Benefits” and “Nonqualified Deferred Compensation” below. 
Perquisites Our named executives are eligible to participate in company-wide benefit plans. In addition, we provide certain benefits, 

consistent with market practices, that are reportable under SEC rules as perquisites. The following perquisites were 

provided in 2015 and are substantially unchanged from 2014: 
Car and Driver 
Each named executive has access to a pool of company cars and drivers for security purposes and 

to allow for more effective use of travel time. The pool is also available for use by our 

other executives. 
Executive Life 
The named executives are covered by certain life insurance plans. (See footnotes to the Summary 
Insurance Compensation Table below.) 
Personal Use of 
Company aircraft are intended to be used by employees, directors and authorized guests primarily 
Corporate Aircraft 
for business purposes. Our policy provides that the CEO should make prudent use of the company 

aircraft for security purposes and to make the most efficient use of his time. The HRC Committee 

receives an aircraft usage report on a semi-annual basis. 
Charitable Gifts 
We maintain a matching gift program for gifts to eligible charities. All of our employees are eligible 
Match to participate in the matching gift program, and our named executives are eligible for an additional 

match of up to $30,000. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
45  ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis@ 
Our Pay Practices 
Stakeholder Engagement 
In determining our governance practices, we believe it is important to consider feedback and input from our 
stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, clients and the communities we serve. 
We continued to receive strong support for our executive compensation 
program with 96% shareholder approval of the say-on-pay proposal at 
96% 
our 2015 annual meeting and continued to actively engage with our 
of shareholders 
stakeholders throughout the remainder of the year (including webcasting 
approved our 
our annual meeting to allow broader shareholder participation). 
2015 say-on-pay 
In total, in advance of our 2016 annual meeting, our annual outreach 
proposal 
process resulted in conversations with investors representing about 54% of 

our outstanding shares, as well as with proxy advisory firms and other 

stakeholders on governance and performance matters. We further engaged shareholders and analysts at industry 

conferences, in meetings at our offices or at our shareholders’ offices, through conference calls and at our Investor Day 

conference held on October 28, 2014. We also regularly engage in direct meetings with local leaders and advocacy 

groups in our communities as well as with our employees. 
Changes for 2016 
As illustrated on page 33, our CEO’s target total direct compensation is below peer group median total compensation. 

Our HRC Committee determined that an increase in target incentive pay would position the CEO’s target pay in line with 

that of our peers and established Mr. Hassell’s 2016 target total direct compensation at $15 million. Mr. Hassell’s salary 

remains unchanged for 2016. 
In addition, to simplify our program and more closely tie pay to performance by increasing upside and downside 
program leverage as illustrated below, our HRC Committee determined to move to a “one decision” incentive structure 

starting with our 2016 compensation program. Under the “one decision” structure, total incentive compensation will be 

based on a single compensation award decision based on the balanced scorecard results and then will be delivered in 

the form of cash, RSUs and PSUs, rather than two separate compensation decisions—one for annual incentive, delivered 

in the form of cash and RSUs, and one for long-term incentive, delivered in the form of PSUs. The total incentive 

payment will continue to be subject to reduction or elimination based on a risk assessment. The example below 

illustrates, for a hypothetical NEO (excluding the CEO), the difference between our current 2015 incentive structure and 

the 2016 “one decision” incentive structure, each at target performance. 
46 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
 = 
 = 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis@ 
2015 Structure 
2016 “One Dec
ision” Structure 
$3,000,000 Target Incent
ive Two Award Dec
isions 
70% Annual 
30% LTI Award 
Incentive Award 
(0-150%)* (75%-125%)* $2,100,000 
$900,000 
45% Cash 
55% RSUs 
100% PSUs 
$945,000 
$1,155,000 
$900,000 
Total Incent
ive $3,000,000 
* Payout potential as a percentage of target. $3,000,000 Target Incent
ive One Award Dec
ision 100% of Total Annual 
Incent
ive Award 
(0-150%)* $3,000,000 
30% Cash 
25% RSUs 
45% PSUs 
$900,000 $750,000 $1,350,000 Total Incent
ive $3,000,000 
For our CEO, under our current incentive structure, 70% of total incentive compensation comes from the annual 
incentive award (of which 20% is paid in cash and 80% in RSUs) and 30% comes from the long-term incentive award (of 

which 100% is paid in PSUs). Under the 2016 “one decision” structure, his total incentive compensation will be paid 25% 

in cash, 25% in RSUs and 50% in PSUs. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
47 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
Key Compensation Practices 
To further our commitment to good corporate governance practices and mitigation of inappropriate risk-taking, our 2015 
compensation program for the named executives has the following features: 
Directly link pay to 
performance • Annual incentives based on balanced scorecard results comprise 70% of target total 
incentive compensation and 64% of target total direct compensation 
• Annual incentives deferred in the form of RSUs comprise 80% of annual incentive award for 
the CEO and 55% for other named executives and vest over three years 
• Long-term incentives delivered as PSUs comprise 30% of target total incentive 
compensation and 28% of target total direct compensation 
Balanced approach 
for annual incentives 
• Annual incentives earned based on (1) OEPS and operating leverage, weighted 75% and 
25% respectively, for the corporate component and (2) each named executive’s business 

unit goals, which use quantitative financial measures to establish a payout range, and an 

individual modifier to allow the HRC Committee to recognize and differentiate individual 

contributions Promote long-term 
stock ownership 
• Deferred equity (RSUs and PSUs) as a percentage of target incentives: 86% for our CEO 
and 69% for our other named executives (up from 60% in 2014) 
• Deferred equity as a percentage of earned incentives: 85% for our CEO and 67% for our 
other named executives 
• RSUs vest in equal installments over three years, and earned PSUs cliff vest after the end of a 
three-year performance period 
• Our CEO must acquire and retain company stock equal to six times base salary and other 
named executives must acquire and retain stock equal to four times base salary 
What we don’t do 
• No excessive or single-trigger change-in-control or other severance benefits 
• No tax gross-ups on change-in-control payments 
• No tax gross-ups on perquisites 
• No hedging or short sales of our stock 
• No stock options grants 
HRC Committee Role and Process 
In the first quarter of 2015, for each named executive, the HRC Committee approved base salary levels; established 
target amounts for the 2015 annual incentive and long-term incentive awards to be earned or granted, as applicable, 

in the first quarter of 2016 based on 2015 performance; and granted a long-term incentive award in the form of PSUs 

based on targets established in 2014, following consideration and adjustment based on prior-year risk scorecard results 

and strategic milestones. As described in our 2015 proxy statement, we shifted 2014 pay mix to the long-term incentive 

award granted in the first quarter of 2015 to emphasize long-term, sustainable growth. 
In setting 2015 compensation targets, the HRC Committee, assisted by its independent compensation consultant, 
considered a variety of factors over multiple meetings, including our financial performance and data concerning peer 

companies’ executive compensation programs. Factors were considered holistically, and no one factor had an assigned 

or specific quantifiable impact on the target compensation levels established by the HRC Committee. 
During the year, the HRC Committee received regular updates on performance forecasts versus performance goals, 
regulatory and legislative developments and other relevant matters. In the first quarter of 2016, the HRC Committee 

evaluated 2015 corporate performance, using a combination of financial and qualitative measures as well as each named 

executive’s individual performance. This was used in determining final amounts for the 2015 annual incentive awards and 
48 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
  ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
upfront adjustments to the 2015 long-term incentive awards granted in the form of PSUs (see pages 38-41 and 43, 
respectively). The HRC Committee also provided each named executive with incentive compensation targets for both their 

2016 annual incentive and long-term incentive awards, with the actual award amounts to be determined in the first quarter 

of 2017 based on prior-year performance. 
With respect to our CEO, the HRC Committee reports its preliminary conclusions and compensation decisions, and 
information on the process used by the HRC Committee, to the other independent members of our Board in executive 

session and solicits their input prior to finalizing determinations. With respect to our other named executive officers, the 

HRC Committee also advises and discusses with the other independent directors compensation decisions and the 

process used by the HRC Committee. 
Role of Compensation Consultants 
Since February 2014, the HRC Committee has retained Compensation Advisory Partners LLC, which we refer to as 

“CAP,” as its independent compensation consultant. CAP regularly attends HRC Committee meetings and assists the 

committee in its analysis and evaluation of compensation matters related to our executive officers. For more information 

on CAP, see page 26. 
Peer Group 
BlackRock, Inc. 
The HRC Committee and our management use compensation data from The Charles Schwab 
our peer group to provide a basis for assessing relative company Corporation 
performance, to provide data for the HRC Committee to assesscompetitiveness in determining targeted and actual compensation and Franklin Resources, Inc./ 
to analyze market trends and practices. In evaluating and selecting JPMorgan Chase & Co./ 
companies for inclusion in the peer group, the HRC Committee targetsMorgan Stanley 
complex financial companies with which we typically compete for executive talent and business. In particular, the HRC Committee selected Northern Trust Corporation 
these companies based on: The PNC Financial Services 
Group, Inc. 
•mix of businesses (e.g., asset management, asset servicing and clearing services) and other financial services companies with similar Prudential Financial, Inc. 
business models that operate in a similar regulatory environment; State Street Corporation 
•relative size in terms of revenue, market capitalization and assets U.S. Bancorp 
under management (AUM), as well as total assets and net income; Wells Fargo & Company 
•position as competitors for customers and clients, executive talent and investment capital; and •global presence. The 2015 peer group selected by the HRC Committee was unchanged from 2014. For certain named executive officers, 

data relating to the peer group is supplemented with industry data from surveys conducted by national compensation 

consulting firms and other data to assess the compensation levels and practices in the businesses and markets in which 

we compete for executive talent. All peer group data and other information provided to the HRC Committee by CAP 

was used by the HRC Committee in setting 2015 target compensation levels for our named executives. 
Stock Ownership Guidelines 
Under our stock ownership guidelines, each named executive is required to own a number of shares of our common 

stock with a value equal to a multiple of base salary within five years of becoming a member of our Executive 

Committee. The officer cannot sell or transfer to a third party any shares until he or she achieves the 

ownership guideline. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
49 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis@ 
Stock Ownership Requirement Stock Retention Requirement* CEO Must retain shares of our common stock equal 
50% of net after tax shares must be held until 
to six times base salary 
age 60 
Other NEOs 
Must retain shares of our common stock equal 
50% of net after tax shares must be held for 
to four times base salary 
one year after vesting date 
*Applies to shares received from the vesting of RSUs, PSUs, restricted stock and other long-term equity awards granted after appointment to the Executive Committee and that were unvested as of August 2012. Our CEO is subject to a 6-times base salary and our other named executives are subject to a 4-times base salary 
ownership guideline. All of our named executives meet the stock ownership guidelines. To determine their ownership 

stake we include shares owned directly, shares held in our employee stock purchase and retirement plans and shares 

held in certain trusts. We include 50% of unvested restricted stock and RSUs that do not have performance conditions or 

for which the applicable performance conditions have been met. Unearned performance shares, awards that remain 

subject to performance conditions and stock options are not counted toward compliance with the stock 

ownership guidelines. 
In addition, named executives are subject to a retention requirement relating to shares received from the vesting of 
RSUs, PSUs, restricted stock and other long-term equity awards that were granted after their respective appointment to 

the Executive Committee and that were unvested as of August 2012. For the CEO, 50% of the net after-tax shares from 

these awards must be held until age 60 to allow for orderly diversification; for other named executive officers, 50% of the 

net after-tax shares must be held for one year from the vesting date. 
Anti-Hedging Policies 
Our named executive officers are prohibited from entering into hedging transactions with their company stock, including 

engaging in short sales of our stock, purchasing our stock on margin, and buying or selling any puts, calls or other 

options involving our securities. 
Clawback and Recoupment Policy 
In addition to forfeiture provisions based on risk outcomes during the vesting period, we have a comprehensive 

recoupment policy administered by the HRC Committee that applies to equity awards granted to our executives, 

including the named executive officers. Under the policy, the company may cancel all or any portion of unvested equity 

awards made after the policy was adopted and require repayment of any shares of common stock (or values thereof) or 

amounts that were acquired from the award if: 
•Z the executive directly or indirectly engages in conduct, or it is discovered that the executive engaged in conduct, 
that is materially adverse to the interests of the company, including failure to comply with the company’s rules or 

regulations, fraud or conduct contributing to any financial restatements or irregularities; 
•Z during the course of employment, the executive engages in solicitation and/or diversion of customers or employees 

and/or competition with the company; 
•Z following termination of employment with the company for any reason, the executive violates any post-termination 

obligations or duties owed to the company or any agreement with the company; or 
•Z any compensation otherwise payable or paid to the executive is required to be forfeited and/or repaid to the 

company pursuant to applicable regulatory requirements. 
In addition, we have a cash recoupment policy, which provides that the company may claw back some or all of a cash 

incentive award within three years of the award date if, during the award performance period, the employee (including 

each of the named executives) is found to have engaged in fraud or to have directly or indirectly contributed to a 

financial restatement or other irregularity. The company continues to monitor regulatory requirements as may be 

applicable to its recoupment policies. 
50: BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
Severance Benefits 
Stockholder Approval of Future Senior Officer Severance Arrangements. 
In July 2010, the Board adopted a policy 
regarding stockholder approval of future senior officer severance arrangements. The policy provides that the company 
will not enter into a future severance arrangement with a senior executive that provides for severance benefits (as 

defined in the policy) in an amount exceeding 2.99 times the sum of annual base salary and target bonus for the year of 

termination (or, if greater, for the year before the year of termination), unless such arrangement receives 

stockholder approval. 
Executive Severance Plan. 
In July 2010, we adopted The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Executive Severance 
Plan, which provides the following severance benefits: 
Reason for termination 
Severance payment 
Bonus Benefit continuation Outplacement services By the company without “cause” 
2 times base salary 
Pro-rata annual 
bonus for the year of 
termination Two years 
One year 
By the company without 
“cause” or by the executive for 
“good reason” within two years 
following a “change in control” 
2 times base salary 
and 2 times target 
annual bonus 
Pro-rata target annual 
bonus for the year of 
termination Two years 
One year 
Plan participants are selected by the HRC Committee and include each of our named executives. To receive benefits 
under the plan, the participant must sign a release and waiver of claims in favor of the company and agree not to solicit 

our customers and employees for one year. 
We do not provide any severance-related tax gross-ups. If any payment under the plan would cause a participant to 
become subject to the excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“IRC”), then 

payments and benefits will be reduced to the amount that would not cause the participant to be subject to the excise tax 

if such a reduction would put the participant in a better after-tax position than if the participant were to pay the tax. In 

addition, the amount of payments and benefits payable under the plan will be reduced to the extent necessary to 

comply with our policy regarding stockholder approval of future senior officer severance arrangements 

as described above. 
Separation Benefits for Mr. Arledge 
Mr. Arledge’s employment with the company will terminate effective March 23, 2016. In connection with his departure, 

the company determined that he will be eligible to receive payments under the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 

Executive Severance Plan for a termination by the company without “cause.” In accordance with the plan, Mr. Arledge 

will receive a severance payment of $1,300,000 equal to two times his base salary payable over two years; a 2016 annual 

incentive pro-rated for the portion of the year during which he was employed by us, with such benefit determined by the 

company’s actual performance during such period; benefits continuation for two years; and outplacement services for 

one year. 
Additionally, Mr. Arledge will be eligible to vest in a pro-rated portion of his unvested February 2014, 2015 and 2016 
PSU awards as a result of his departure prior to the completion of the applicable performance period. Accordingly, the 

number of the unvested February 2014, 2015 and 2016 PSU awards in which Mr. Arledge will vest will be based on the 

company’s actual performance as determined by the HRC Committee at the end of the applicable performance period, 

and pro-rated to reflect the portion of each such performance period during which he was employed by us. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
51 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis 
Tax Considerations 
The HRC Committee considers certain tax implications when designing our executive compensation programs and 
certain specific awards. The HRC Committee considered that Section 162(m) of the IRC generally imposes a $1 million 

limit on the amount that a public company may deduct for compensation paid to its CEO and the three other most 

highly compensated officers each year. This limitation does not apply to “qualifying performance-based” compensation 

as defined in the IRC. We generally design our compensation programs so that compensation paid to the named 

executives can qualify for available income tax deductions. Our annual incentive awards are granted under our 

shareholder-approved Executive Incentive Compensation Plan and intended to be “qualifying performance-based” 

compensation. In that regard, annual incentives paid to any individual for the calendar year cannot exceed the sum of $3 

million plus 0.5% of our positive pre-tax income from continuing operations, before the impact of the cumulative effect 

of accounting changes and extraordinary items, as disclosed on our consolidated statement of income for such year 

included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
However, the HRC Committee believes that stockholders’ interests may best be served by offering compensation that 
is not fully deductible, where appropriate, to attract, retain and motivate talented executives. Accordingly, the HRC 

Committee has discretion to authorize compensation that does not qualify for income tax deductibility. 
52 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Compensation Discussion & Analysis@ 
How We Address Risk and Control< 
On a regular basis, our Chief Risk Officer and our HRC Committee review the company’s risk appetite, practices and 
employee compensation plans for alignment with sound risk management. Our Chief Risk Officer also met with the HRC 

Committee to specifically discuss and review our 2015 compensation plans, including the plans in which members of the 

Executive Committee participate. With respect to employees broadly, we also monitor the company’s compensation 

plans through a management-level compensation oversight committee that includes our Chief Risk Officer, Chief Human 

Resources Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Risk Management and Compliance Chief Administrative Officer. The 

committee receives regular reports, meets at least on a quarterly basis and reports to the HRC Committee on risk-related 

compensation issues. 
We identify employees who, individually or as a group, are responsible for activities that may expose us to material 
amounts of risk, using a risk-related performance evaluation program with adjustments determined by a senior 

management committee responsible for control functions, with such adjustments later reviewed by the HRC Committee. 

The incentive compensation of identified employees is directly linked to risk-taking either through a “risk scorecard” or 

through the inclusion of a standard risk goal as part of our performance management process. 
With respect to our named executive officers, a Basel III common equity Tier 1 ratio of at least 8.5% on a fully phased-in 
basis calculated under the Advanced Approach was established as a minimum funding requirement for our annual 

incentive, with such percentage being equal to the regulatory threshold ratio to which we expect to be held on a fully 

phased-in basis, including estimated buffers. Our annual incentives also take into account a risk assessment for both the 

company as a whole and for each individual. Our named executives’ target long-term incentives are set after considering 

potential downward adjustments for prior-year risk scorecard results. In addition, all of their equity awards are subject to 

100% forfeiture during the vesting period and all of their cash incentives are subject to 100% claw back within three years 

following the award date, in each case based on ongoing risk assessments under our comprehensive recoupment policy. 
We are also subject to regulation by various U.S. and international governmental and regulatory agencies with respect to 
executive compensation matters and the consideration of risk in the context of compensation. Our programs have been 

designed to comply with these regulations, and the HRC Committee regularly monitors new and proposed regulations as 

they develop to determine if additional action is required. 
Based on the above, we believe that our compensation plans and practices are well-balanced and do not encourage 
imprudent risk-taking that threatens our company’s value or create risks that are reasonably likely to have a material 

adverse effect on the company. 
Report of the HRC Committee 
The HRC Committee has reviewed and discussed the foregoing Compensation Discussion and Analysis with 

management. On the basis of such review and discussions, the HRC Committee recommended to the Board of Directors 

that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and this 

proxy statement. 
By: The Human Resources and Compensation Committee 

Samuel C. Scott III, Chairman 
John M. Hinshaw 
Richard J. Kogan 
Edward P. Garden 
Edmund F. “Ted” Kelly 
Wesley W. von Schack 
Jeffrey A. Goldstein 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
53 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables@ 
Summary Compensation Table 
The Summary Compensation Table and Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table, on this page 54 and on page 56, are in 
accordance with SEC rules and do not reflect the manner in which our HRC Committee thinks about and determines 

compensation. In particular, the SEC rules require that we report equity-based awards for the year that they are granted, 

even though the equity-based portion of our annual incentives is awarded for services performed the prior year and our 

long-term equity incentives are awarded after adjustment for performance during the prior year. 
Name and 
Principal Position Year Salary Bonus Stock Awards(1)(2) Option Awards(2) Non-Equity Incentive Plan 
Compensation Change in 
Pension Value and 
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Earnings(3) All Other 
Compensation(4) Total Compensation Gerald L. Hassell 
2015 $1,000,000 $0 $9,889,738 $0 $2,419,200 $0 $173,496 $13,482,434 Chairman & Chief Executive Officer 2014 2013 $1,000,000 
$1,000,000 $0 
$0 $7,750,031 
$4,682,101 $0 
$0 $1,244,640 
$3,486,483 $1,509,388 $0 $155,469 
$282,191 $11,659,528 $9,450,775 Thomas P. “Todd” 
Gibbons 2015 $650,000 $0 $3,510,949 $0 $2,426,760 $0 $76,731 $6,664,440 Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer 2014 2013 $650,000 
$650,000 $0 
$0 $2,982,659 
$2,293,760 $0 
$0 $1,808,471 
$2,084,936 $978,123 $0 $78,460 $113,010 $6,497,713 $5,141,706 Curtis Y. Arledge
(5) 2015 $650,000 $0 $8,082,755 $0 $3,364,200 $0 $121,592 $12,218,547 Vice Chairman & CEO of Investment Management 2014 
2013 $650,000 
$625,000 $0 
$0 $7,544,542 
$6,160,496 $0 
$0 $3,647,534 
$5,346,668 $0 
$0 $95,396 $129,321 $11,937,472 $12,261,485 Karen B. Peetz 
2015 $650,000 $0 $3,439,089 $0 $1,647,726 $39,595 $43,000 $5,819,410 President 2014 
2013 $650,000 
$625,000 $0 
$0 $2,907,106 
$2,150,002 $0 
$0 $1,716,826 
$1,978,016 $233,014 $38,682 $26,012 
$43,886 $5,532,958 
$4,853,586 Brian T. Shea
(6) 2015 $575,000 $0 $3,033,843 $0 $2,459,646 $0 $115,616 $6,184,105 Vice Chairman & CEO of Investment Services (1) The amounts disclosed in this column include the grant date fair value of RSUs and PSUs granted in 2015, 2014 and 2013. For 2015, the grant date fair values of PSUs 
were: $4,695,214 for Mr. Hassell; $2,093,278 for Mr. Gibbons; $5,223,434 for Mr. Arledge; $2,093,278 for Ms. Peetz; and $1,741,118 for Mr. Shea. At the maximum level 
of performance, the PSU values would be: $5,869,027 for Mr. Hassell; $2,616,607 for Mr. Gibbons; $6,529,292 for Mr. Arledge; $2,616,607 for Ms. Peetz
; and $2,176,418 
for Mr. Shea. 
(2) The amounts disclosed in these columns are computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 (“ASC 718”) using the valuation methodology for equity awards set forth 

in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 
(3) The amount disclosed in this column represents the increase in the present value of the executive’s accumulated pension benefit. The total amount disclosed for 2015 for 

Messrs. Hassell and Gibbons and Ms. Peetz consists solely of the increase in the present value of the accumulated benefit, as there are no above-market nonqualified 

deferred compensation earnings. Present values are determined in accordance with the assumptions used for purposes of measuring our pension obligations under FASB 

ASC 715 (formerly SFAS No. 87) as of December 31, 2015, including a discount rate of 4.48%, with the exception that benefit payments are assumed to commence at the 
earliest age at which unreduced benefits are payable. 
54 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables 
(4) The items comprising “All Other Compensation” for 2015 are: 
Name Perquisites and Other Personal Benefits(a) Contributions to Defined 
Contribution Plans(b) Insurance Premiums(c) Total Gerald L. Hassell 
$135,596 $23,250 $14,650 $173,496 Thomas P. “Todd” Gibbons 
$46,881 $19,750 $10,100 $76,731 Curtis Y. Arledge 
$95,342 $26,250 $— $121,592 Karen B. Peetz 
$23,250 $19,750 $— $43,000 Brian T. Shea 
$90,866 $24,750 $— $115,616 (a) “Perquisites and Other Personal Benefits” are for Mr. Hassell, use of company car and driver ($47,806), use of company aircraft ($57,790) and enhanced charitable 
gift match ($30,000); for Mr. Gibbons, use of company car and driver ($34,433) and enhanced charitable gift match ($12,448); for Mr. Arledge, use of company car 

and driver ($65,342) and enhanced charitable gift match ($30,000); for Ms. Peetz, enhanced charitable gift match ($23,250); and for Mr. Shea, use of company car 

and driver ($60,866) and enhanced charitable gift match ($30,000). 
The amounts disclosed represent aggregate incremental costs as follows: use of the company car and driver determined by the company’s cost associated with the 
individual’s personal use of the pool of vehicles and drivers; personal use of corporate aircraft determined by the direct hourly operating cost for use of the aircraft 

multiplied by the number of hours of personal use; and the enhanced charitable gift match determined by matching contributions to eligible charities made by the 

company in excess of those provided for other employees under the company’s gift matching programs. We calculated the direct hourly operating cost for use of 
the aircraft by adding the total amount spent by us for fuel, maintenance, landing fees, travel and catering associated with the use of corporate aircraft in 2015 and 
divided this number by the total number of flight hours logged in 2015. 
(b) “Contributions to Defined Contribution Plans” consist of matching contributions under our 401(k) plans and non-discretionary company contributions under The 

Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Defined Contribution IRC Section 401(a)(17) Plan (the “BNY Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration Plan”). See “Nonqualified 
Deferred Compensation” below on page 61 for more details regarding the BNY Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration Plan. In addition, for Messrs. Arledge and Shea, 
the amount includes non-discretionary company contributions totaling 2% of base salary under our 401(k) plan. 
(c) Represent taxable payments made by us for universal life insurance policies. 
(5) Mr. Arledge is no longer serving as Vice Chairman and CEO of Investment Management, and his employment with BNY Mellon is scheduled to terminate on March 23, 
2016. (6) Because Mr. Shea was only a named executive officer in 2015, no disclosure is included as to Mr. Shea for 2013 or 2014. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
55 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables 
Grants of Plan-Based Awards 
Estimated Possible Payouts Under 
Non-Equity Incentive Plan Awards
(1) Estimated Possible Payouts Under 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards
(2) Name Award Type Grant Date Date HRC 
Committee took Action to 
Grant Award Threshold ($) Target ($) Maximum ($) Threshold (#) Target (#) Maximum (#) Grant Date Fair 
Value of 
Stock Awards ($)(3) Gerald L. Hassell 
EICP — — — $8,400,000 $12,600,000 — — — — PSUs 2/20/2015 2/20/2015 — — — — 119,047 148,809 $4,695,214 Thomas P. “Todd” Gibbons 
EICP — — — $3,745,000 $ 5,617,500 
— — — — PSUs 2/20/2015 2/20/2015 — — — — 53,075 66,344 $2,093,278 Curtis Y. Arledge 
EICP — — — $9,345,000 $14,017,500 — — — — PSUs 2/20/2015 2/20/2015 — — — — 132,440 165,550 $5,223,434 Karen B. Peetz 
EICP — — — $3,045,000 $ 4,567,500 
— — — — PSUs 2/20/2015 2/20/2015 — — — — 53,075 66,344 $2,093,278 Brian T. Shea 
EICP — — — $3,780,000 $ 5,670,000 
— — — — PSUs 2/20/2015 2/20/2015 — — — — 44,146 55,183 $1,741,118 (1) Represents annual incentive amounts to be paid for performance during 2015 under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Executive Incentive Compensation Plan 
(the “EICP”). Amounts earned under the Plan in 2016 (for 2015 performance) were made 20% in the form of cash and 80% in the form of RSUs for Mr. Hassell and 45% in 

the form of cash and 55% in the form of RSUs for our other named executive officers. There was no threshold payout under this plan for 2015. 
The table above does not reflect the RSUs that were granted on February 20, 2015 with respect to each named executive officer’s 2014 annual incentive award, which 
was made 20% in the form of cash and 80% in the form of RSUs for Mr. Hassell and 57% in the form of cash and 43% in the form of RSUs for our other named executive 

officers. The RSUs vest in equal installments over three years. In the event that the named executive officer’s risk scorecard rating is lower than acceptable risk tolerance, 

any unvested RSUs will be subject to review and potential forfeiture, as determined by our HRC Committee. The 2014 annual incentive award was previously reported in 

the 2014 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table. 
(2) Represents the named executive officer’s long-term incentive award granted in the form of PSUs under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive 

Plan. The amounts shown under the Maximum column represent the maximum payout level of 125% of target; there is no threshold payout level. Upon vesting, the PSUs 

will be paid out in shares of BNY Mellon common stock. PSUs cannot be sold during the period of restriction. During this period, dividend equivalents on the PSUs will 

be reinvested and paid to the executives at the same time as the underlying shares. These units will be earned between 0-125% based on our 2017 OEPS with a negative 
risk modifier should risk-weighted assets grow at an unacceptable rate. The earned units generally will cliff vest after the end of the performance period if the executive 
remains employed by us. In the event that the named executive officer’s risk scorecard rating is lower than acceptable risk tolerance, any unvested PSUs will be subject to 

review and potential forfeiture, as determined by our HRC Committee. 
(3) The aggregate grant date fair value of awards presented in this column is calculated in accordance with ASC 718. 
56 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables 
Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End 
The market value of unvested or unearned awards is calculated based on $41.22 per share, the closing price of our 
common stock on the NYSE on December 31, 2015. 
Option Awards
(2) Stock Awards
(3) Number of Securities 
Underlying Unexercised 
Options (#) 
Option Exercise Price ($) Option Expiration Date Number of 
Shares or 
Units of 
Stock That 
Have Not 
Vested (#) 
Market Value of 
Shares or Units of 
Stock That 
Have Not 
Vested ($) 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Number of 
Unearned Shares, Units 
or Other 
Rights That 
Have Not 
Vested (#) 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards: 
Market or 
Payout Value 
of Unearned 
Shares, Units 
or Other 
Rights That 
Have Not 
Vested ($) 
Name Year of 
Grant/ Performance Period(1) Exercisable Unexercisable Gerald L. Hassell 
2007 191,042 — $40.4000 3/13/2017 2007 86,180 — $42.8300 4/2/2017 2007 471,700 — $43.9300 6/29/2017 2007 35,896 — $44.5900 7/23/2017 2008 380,916 — $42.3100 3/10/2018 2010 319,803 — $30.2500 3/15/2020 2011 295,119 — $30.1300 2/23/2021 2012 325,809 108,603 $22.0300 2/22/2022 2013 12,567 $518,012 2014 93,464 $3,852,586 2015 131,707 $5,428,963 2013-2015 142,077(4) $5,856,434 2014-2016 57,814(4) $2,383,084 37,540(5) $1,547,419 2015-2017 121,064(5) $4,990,239 Thomas P. “Todd” 
Gibbons 2007 79,022 — $40.4000 3/13/2017 2007 43,161 — $42.8300 4/2/2017 2007 16,320 — $44.5900 7/23/2017 2008 184,380 — $42.3100 3/10/2018 2008 38,152 — $34.6300 7/21/2018 2009 182,328 — $18.0200 3/9/2019 2010 193,726 — $30.2500 3/15/2020 2011 190,124 — $30.1300 2/23/2021 2012 96,324 32,108 $22.0300 2/22/2022 2013 8,119 $334,665 2014 31,549 $1,300,450 2015 35,945 $1,481,653 2013-2015 63,342(4) $2,610,959 2014-2016 25,775(4) $1,062,444 16,737(5) $689,900 2015-2017 53,974(5) $2,224,810 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
57 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables@ 
Option Awards
(2) Stock Awards
(3) Number of Securities 
Underlying Unexercised 
Options (#) 
Option Exercise Price ($) Option Expiration Date Number of 
Shares or 
Units of 
Stock That 
Have Not 
Vested (#) 
Market Value of 
Shares or Units of 
Stock That 
Have Not 
Vested ($) 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards: Number of 
Unearned Shares, Units 
or Other 
Rights That 
Have Not 
Vested (#) 
Equity Incentive Plan Awards: 
Market or 
Payout Value 
of Unearned 
Shares, Units 
or Other 
Rights That 
Have Not 
Vested ($) 
Name Year of 
Grant/ Performance Period(1) Exercisable Unexercisable Curtis Y. Arledge 
2011 607,263 — $30.1300 2/23/2021 2012 192,612 64,202 $22.0300 2/22/2022 2013 25,592 $1,054,902 2014 80,906 $3,334,945 2015 72,498 $2,988,368 2013-2015 158,062(4) $6,515,320 2014-2016 64,317(4) $2,651,139 41,764(5) $1,721,526 2015-2017 134,683(5) $5,551,650 Karen B. Peetz 
2007 52,102 — $40.4000 3/13/2017 2007 24,198 — $42.8300 4/2/2017 2007 8,964 — $44.5900 7/23/2017 2008 109,412 — $42.3100 3/10/2018 2008 17,609 — $34.6300 7/21/2018 2012 — 32,580 $22.0300 2/22/2022 2013 6,365 $262,365 2014 29,931 $1,233,756 2015 34,123 $1,406,550 2013-2015 63,342(4) $2,610,959 2014-2016 25,775(4) $1,062,444 16,737(5) $689,900 2015-2017 53,974(5) $2,224,810 Brian T. Shea 
2011 119,182 — $30.1300 2/23/21 2012 60,372 20,122 $22.0300 2/22/22 2013 6,125 $252,473 2014 26,214 $1,080,541 2015 32,777 $1,351,068 2013-2015 52,687(4) $2,171,758 2014-2016 23,584(4) $972,126 15,312(5) $631,167 2015-2017 44,894(5) $1,850,522 (1) Refers to the year of grant for stock options and RSUs, and to the performance period for PSUs. 
(2) Stock options granted in 2012 vest and become exercisable 1/4 per year over a four-year period; the remaining unexercisable options vested on 2/23/2016. 
(3) RSUs vest in accordance with the following schedule: 
Year of Grant 
2013 1/3 vest per year over a three-year period; the remaining unvested RSUs vested on 2/21/2016 2014 1/3 vest per year over a three-year period; the remaining unvested RSUs vested 1/2 on 2/19/2016 and vest 1/2 on 2/19/2017 2015 1/3 vest per year over a three-year period; the remaining unvested RSUs vested 1/3 on 2/20/2016 and vest 1/3 on 2/20/2017 and 1/3 on 2/20/2018 58 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables 
PSUs are earned and vest in accordance with the following schedule: 
Year of Grant 
2013 1/3 earned per year over the three-year performance period, between 0-125% of target based on our return on risk-weighted assets during each year; earned PSUs cliff vested at the end of the performance period (on 2/21/2016) 2014 1/3 earned per year over the three-year performance period, between 0-125% of target based on our return on risk-weighted assets during each year; earned PSUs cliff vest at the end of the performance period (on 2/19/2017) 2015 Earned, between 0-125% of target, based on our OEPS growth over the three-year performance period with a negative risk modifier should risk-weighted assets grow at an unacceptable rate; earned PSUs cliff vest at the end of the performance period (on 2/20/2018) (4) Includes accrued dividends on the first and second tranches for the PSUs granted in 2014 and all tranches for the PSUs granted in 2013, in each case, which were earned 
based on performance as of December 31, 2015 but remained subject to ongoing time-vesting conditions. 
(5) Includes accrued dividends on the unearned portion of the PSUs granted in 2014 and 2015, assuming target performance. 
Option Exercises and Stock Vested 
Option Awards 
Stock Awards 
Name Number of 
Shares Acquired 
on Exercise (#) 
Value Realized 
on Exercise ($) Number of 
Shares Acquired 
on Vesting (#) 
Value Realized 
on Vesting ($) 
Gerald L. Hassell 
485,254 $7,849,489 153,877 $6,028,419 Thomas P. “Todd” Gibbons 
127,359 $616,902 51,858 $2,032,682 Curtis Y. Arledge 
— $— 121,959 $4,782,021 Karen B. Peetz 221,088 $2,872,678 49,706 $1,947,955 Brian T. Shea 
— $— 36,758 $1,440,809 Pension Benefits< 
Name Plan Name
(1) Number of Years 
Credited Service (#) 
Present Value of 
Accumulated Benefit ($)
(2) Payments During Last 
Fiscal Year 
($) Gerald L. Hassell 
BNY Mellon Tax-Qualified Retirement Plan 
38.75 $ 1,620,700 
$— Legacy BNY Excess Plan 
38.75 $ 4,327,579 
$— Legacy BNY SERP 
38.25 $11,536,241 $— Thomas P. “Todd” Gibbons 
BNY Mellon Tax-Qualified Retirement Plan 
28.08 $ 1,279,742 
$— Legacy BNY Excess Plan 
28.08 $ 2,042,398 
$— Legacy BNY SERP 
27.58 $ 3,284,170 
$— Karen B. Peetz BNY Mellon Tax-Qualified Retirement Plan 
16.25 $ 681,773 
$— Legacy BNY Excess Plan 
16.25 $ 462,998 
$— (1) Benefit accruals under the Legacy BNY SERP were frozen as of December 31, 2014, and benefit accruals under the Legacy BNY Excess Plan and the BNY Mellon Tax-

Qualified Retirement Plan were frozen as of June 30, 2015. 
(2) The present values shown above are based on benefits earned as of December 31, 2015 under the terms of the various plans as summarized below. Present values are 
determined in accordance with the assumptions used for purposes of measuring our pension obligations under FASB ASC 715 (formerly SFAS No. 87) as of 

December 31, 2015, including a discount rate of 4.48%, with the exception that benefit payments are assumed to commence at the earliest age at which unreduced 

benefits are payable. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
59 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables@ 
BNY Mellon Retirement Plans 
The BNY Mellon Tax-Qualified Retirement Plan was 
previously amended effective January 1, 2009, to change 

the benefit formula for participants under age 50 as of 

December 31, 2008 and for new participants to a cash 

balance formula for service earned on and after 

January 1, 2009. Plan participants who were age 50 or 

older as of December 31, 2008 continued to earn 

benefits through June 30, 2015 under the provisions of 

the legacy plan in which they participated as of that date. 

Because each of Messrs. Hassell and Gibbons and 

Ms. Peetz were all over age 50 as of December 31, 2008, 

they continue to earn benefits under the provisions of the 

legacy plans in which they participate. 
Because Messrs. Hassell and Gibbons and Ms. Peetz have 
attained at least age 55, they are each eligible for 

immediate retirement under the BNY Mellon Tax-

Qualified Retirement Plan and the Legacy BNY Excess 

Plan. Unreduced benefits are payable under these plans 

at age 60, or at age 57 with 20 years of service. Messrs. 

Hassell and Gibbons and Ms. Peetz are currently entitled 

to unreduced benefits from these plans. Since Mr. Hassell 

is over age 60, he is also entitled to an unreduced benefit 

from the Legacy BNY SERP. Messrs. Arledge and Shea do 

not participate in any plan that provides for specified 

payments and benefits (other than defined contribution 

plans) and accordingly, are not included in the Pension 

Benefits table above. 
BNY Mellon Tax-Qualified Retirement Plan — Legacy BNY Provisions. The Legacy BNY Tax-Qualified 
Retirement Plan (the “Legacy BNY Plan”) formula is a 
career average pay formula subject to IRC limits on 

eligible pay for determining benefits. Benefits are based 

on eligible base pay (maximum of $265,000 in 2015). 

Employees who participated in the Legacy BNY Plan prior 

to January 1, 2006 may choose between a monthly 

benefit and a lump sum at retirement, while other 

participants will receive monthly benefits at retirement. 
Legacy BNY Excess Plan. This plan is an unfunded 
nonqualified plan designed to provide the same benefit 
to Legacy BNY employees as under the BNY Mellon Tax-
Qualified Retirement Plan to the extent their benefits are 

limited under such plan as a result of IRC limits on 

accrued benefits and eligible base pay. Benefits are paid 

in a lump sum. 
Legacy BNY SERP. The Legacy BNY SERP is an unfunded 
nonqualified plan that provides benefits according to a 
benefit formula similar to that of the BNY Mellon Tax-

Qualified Retirement Plan benefit formula but includes an 

annual bonus (capped at 100% of base salary after 2005) 

for senior executives who were selected to participate in 

this plan by The Bank of New York’s board of directors 

prior to July 8, 2003. Benefits are paid in a lump sum. 

Participants are entitled to benefits in this plan only if 

they terminate service on or after age 60. 
All of these plans are closed to new participants and were 
frozen as of December 31, 2014 for the Legacy BNY SERP 

and as of June 30, 2015 for the BNY Mellon Tax-Qualified 

Retirement Plan and the Legacy BNY Excess Plan. 

Beginning with 2006, all of the plans generally provided 

benefits under a career average pay formula, rather than 

the final average pay formula under which benefits were 

based prior to 2006. From January 1, 2006 through the 

applicable date on which the plan was frozen, benefits 

accrued for all three plans were equal to 1% (increased to 

1.1% effective January 1, 2009 and with respect to the 

BNY Mellon Tax-Qualified Retirement Plan and the 

Legacy BNY Excess Plan, decreased to 0.9%, effective 

January 1, 2011) of eligible pay earned after 2005. 

Benefits accrued before 2006 were based on a final 

average pay formula and service as of December 31, 

2005 using a five-year average period for the BNY Mellon 

Tax-Qualified Retirement Plan and the Legacy BNY 

Excess Plan and a three-year average period for the 

Legacy BNY SERP. Prior to the applicable date on which 

each plan was frozen, the benefit accrued prior to 2006 

was indexed at a rate of 1% per year. Accrued benefits 

under each of the plans were provided solely for service 

at The Bank of New York or with us. 
60 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables 
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation 
The following table provides information with respect to each defined contribution or other plan that provides for 
nonqualified deferred compensation in which the named executive officers participate. 
Name(1) Executive Contributions in Fiscal Year 
2015 Registrant Contributions in Fiscal Year 
2015(1)(2) Aggregate Earnings in Fiscal Year 2015 
Aggregate Withdrawals/ Distributions Aggregate Balance at End 
of Fiscal Year 
2015 Gerald L. Hassell 
$— $10,000 $— $— $10,000 Thomas P. “Todd” Gibbons 
BNY Mellon 401(k) 

Benefits Restoration Plan 
$— $6,500 $— $— $6,500 BNY Mellon Deferred 

Compensation Plan 
$— $— $2,486 $1,275,436 $—(3) Curtis Y. Arledge 
$— $7,700 $700 $— $39,493(4) Brian T. Shea 
$— $6,200 $(100) $— $20,310 Karen B. Peetz 
$— $6,500 $— $— $6,500 (1) Represents company contributions to the BNY Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration Plan for the 2015 fiscal year. 
(2) These amounts are included in the All Other Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table on page 54. 
(3) Mr. Gibbons contributed $1,025,000 to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Employees (the “BNY Mellon Deferred 
Compensation Plan”) in 2011. This amount was previously reported in the Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table. 

Mr. Gibbons received a distribution of his entire balance under the BNY Mellon Deferred Compensation Plan on January 1, 2015. 
(4) In 2013, Mr. Arledge’s account was credited with company contributions of $14,375 for the 2011 and 2012 fiscal years, in 2014, Mr. Arledge’s account was credited with 

a company contribution of $7,400 for the 2013 fiscal year and in 2015, Mr. Arledge’s account was credited with a company contribution of $7,800 for the 2014 fiscal year. 

These amounts were previously reported in the All Other Compensation column of the Summary Compensation Table. 
BNY Mellon Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plans 
BNY Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration Plan. On amount, if any, of non-discretionary company 
December 20, 2012, the company adopted the BNY contributions that would have been credited to each 
Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration Plan, which is a 
eligible employee’s 401(k) Plan account absent those tax 
nonqualified plan designed for the purpose of providing limitations, including for prior years in which the BNY 

deferred compensation on an unfunded basis for eligible Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration Plan was not yet in 

employees. The deferred compensation provided under effect. The amounts credited to the notional accounts 

the BNY Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration Plan is 
generally vest after three years of service, as defined and 
intended to supplement the benefit provided under the calculated under the 401(k) Plan. As of December 31, 

BNY Mellon 401(k) Savings Plan, our 401(k) Plan, for 2015, all of our named executive officers participate in 

employees not accruing benefits in our defined benefit the BNY Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration Plan. Due to 

pension plans where the employee’s retirement 
the freezing of the BNY Mellon Tax-Qualified Retirement 
contributions under the 401(k) Plan are limited due to the Plan and the Legacy BNY Excess Plan in 2015, more of 

maximums imposed on “qualified” plans by section our named executive officers participated in the BNY 

401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”). Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration Plan in 2015 than have 

Pursuant to the BNY Mellon 401(k) Benefits Restoration participated in previous years. 

Plan, we set up a notional account that is credited with an 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
61 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables@ 
BNY Mellon Deferred Compensation Plan. The company 
adopted the BNY Mellon Deferred Compensation Plan 
effective as of April 1, 2008 for deferrals of cash 

compensation earned by eligible employees of the 

company after March 31, 2008. The BNY Mellon Deferred 

Compensation Plan permits executives to defer receipt of 

cash bonus/incentive amounts above the Social Security 

wage base (which was $118,500 in 2015) until a later date 

while employed, upon retirement or after retirement not to 

exceed age 70. Changes are permitted to the payment 

election once annually; however, they must comply with 

the regulations contained in The American Jobs Creation 

Act of 2004. Deferred compensation may be paid in a 

lump sum or annual payments over 2 to 15 years. If an 
executive terminates employment prior to age 55, his 

benefit is paid in a lump sum shortly after termination. 

Investment alternatives, based on a selection of variable 

rate options, must be selected when the executive makes 

a deferral election and may be changed each quarter for 

future deferrals. Previously deferred amounts may 

generally be reallocated among the investment options at 

the beginning of each quarter. The plan is a nonqualified 

unfunded plan. On January 1, 2015, Mr. Gibbons received 

a distribution of his entire balance under the BNY Mellon 

Deferred Compensation Plan. As of December 31, 2015, 

none of our named executive officers participated in the 

plan. Potential Payments upon Termination or Change in Control< 
The following discussion summarizes any arrangements, 

agreements and policies of the company relating to 

potential payments upon termination or change in control. 
Retirement Benefits 
As shown in the 2015 Pension Benefits and the 2015 

Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Tables above, we 

provide qualified and non-qualified pension retirement 

benefits and qualified and non-qualified defined 

contribution retirement benefits (with the specific plans 

varying depending on when participation began). 
In addition, we provide accelerated or continued vesting 
of equity awards for participants who are eligible for 

retirement, with the eligibility dependent on the 

individual’s age and length of service and the terms of the 

applicable plan and award agreements. At December 31, 

2015 and using the same assumptions as used for the 

Table of Other Potential Payments below, Mr. Hassell was 

eligible to receive accelerated or continued vesting of 

$2,084,092 in options and $24,702,947 in stock awards, 
Mr. Gibbons was eligible for $7,579,219 in stock awards, 

Ms. Peetz was eligible for $625,210 in options and 

$9,521,907 in stock awards and Mr. Shea was eligible to 

receive $6,484,123 in stock awards. Mr. Arledge is not 

retirement-eligible. Accelerated or continued vesting is not 

provided on termination by the company for cause. 
Other Potential Payments upon Termination 
or Change in Control 
Change in Control and Severance Arrangements. Since 2010, our Board has implemented a “Policy Regarding 
Stockholder Approval of Future Senior Officer Severance 

Arrangements.” The policy provides that the company will 

not enter into a future severance arrangement with a 

senior executive that provides for severance benefits (as 

defined in the policy) in an amount exceeding 2.99 times 

the sum of the senior executive’s annual base salary and 

target bonus for the year of termination (or, if greater, for 

the year before the year of termination), unless such 

arrangement receives approval of the stockholders of the 

company. 62 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables@ 
Under the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Executive 
Severance Plan, if an eligible participant is terminated by 

the company without “cause” (as defined in the plan), the 

participant is eligible to receive a severance payment 

equal to two times the participant’s base salary for the year 

of termination (or, if greater, for the year before the year of 

termination), a pro-rata annual bonus for the year of 

termination, benefit continuation for two years and 

outplacement services for one year. If a participant’s 

employment is terminated by the company without cause 

or if the participant terminates his or her employment for 

“good reason” (as defined in the plan) within two years 

following a “change in control” (as defined in the plan), 

then instead of receiving the benefits described above, the 

participant is eligible to receive a severance payment 

equal to two times the sum of the participant’s base salary 

and target annual bonus for the year of termination (or, if 

greater, for the year before the year of termination), a pro[

rata target annual bonus for the year of termination, 

benefit continuation for two years and outplacement 

services for one year. The payments and benefits under 

the plan are subject to the participant signing a release 

andwaiverofclaimsinfavor of thecompany andagreeing 

not to solicit our customers and employees for one year. If 

any payment under the plan would cause a participant to 

become subject to the excise tax imposed under section 

4999 of the IRC, then payments and benefits will be 

reduced to the amount that would not cause the 

participant to be subject to the excise tax if such a 

reduction would put the participant in a better after tax 

position than if the participant were to pay the tax. 
Payments and benefits that are payable under the plan 
will be reduced to the extent that the amount of such 

payments or benefits would exceed the amount 

permitted to be paid under the company’s “Policy 

Regarding Stockholder Approval of Future Senior Officer 

Severance Arrangements” and such amounts are not 

approved by the company’s stockholders in accordance 

with the policy. 
Unvested Equity Awards. Equity awards granted to our 
named executive officers through December 31, 2015 
were granted under (1) the 2003 Long-Term Incentive 

Plan of The Bank of New York and (2) The Bank of New 

York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan, as 

applicable. Each award is evidenced by an award 

agreement that sets forth the terms and conditions of the 

award and the effect of any termination event or a 

change in control on unvested equity awards. 

Accordingly, the effect of a termination event or change 

in control on outstanding equity awards varies by 

executive officer and type of award. 
Table of Other Potential Payments. The following table 
is based on the following: 
• The termination event listed in the table is assumed to 
be effective as of December 31, 2015. 
• The value of our common stock of $41.22 per share is 

based on the closing price of our common stock on the 

NYSE on December 31, 2015, the last trading day in 

2015. • The amounts shown in the table include the estimated 

potential payments and benefits that are payable as a 

result of the triggering event and do not include any 

pension, deferred compensation, or option/stock 

award vesting that would be earned on retirement as 

described above. We have only included amounts by 

which a named executive officer’s retirement benefit is 

enhanced by the triggering event, or additional option/ 

stock awards that vest on the triggering event that 

would not vest on retirement alone. See “Retirement 

Benefits” on page 62 above for information on the 

acceleration or continued vesting of equity awards 

upon retirement. 
• The designation of an event as a termination in 

connection with a change of control is dependent upon 

the termination being either an involuntary termination 

by the company without cause or a termination by the 

named executive officer for good reason. 
• “Cash Compensation” includes payments of salary, 

bonus, severance or death benefit amounts payable in 

the applicable scenario. 
The actual amounts that would be payable in these 

circumstances can only be determined at the time of the 

executive’s separation, would include payments or 

benefits already earned or vested and may differ from the 

amounts set forth in the tables below. In some cases a 

release may be required before amounts would be 

payable. Although we may not have any contractual 

obligation to make a cash payment or provide other 

benefits to any named executive officer in the event of his 

or her death or upon the occurrence of any other event, a 

cash payment may be made or other benefit may be 

provided in our discretion. The incremental benefits that 

would be payable upon certain types of termination of 

employment as they pertain to the named executive 

officers are described below. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
63 ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables@ 
Named Executive Officer 
By Company 
without Cause 
Termination in 
Connection with 
Change of Control 
Death Gerald L. Hassell 
Cash Severance
(1) $2,000,000 $18,800,000 $— Pro-rated Bonus(1) $12,096,000 $8,400,000 $— Health and Welfare Benefits 
$11,438 $11,438 $— Additional Retirement Benefits
(2) $— $— $— Additional Option Vesting
(3) $— $— $— Additional Stock Award Vesting
(4) $— $— $— Tax Gross-Up 
$— $— $— TOTAL $14,107,438 $27,211,438 $— Thomas P. “Todd” Gibbons 
Cash Severance
(1) $1,300,000 $8,790,000 $— Pro-rated Bonus(1) $5,392,800 $3,745,000 $— Health and Welfare Benefits 
$582 $582 $— Additional Retirement Benefits
(2) $— $— $3,398,061 Additional Option Vesting
(3) $616,153 $616,153 $616,153 Additional Stock Award Vesting
(4) $2,162,778 $2,162,778 $2,162,778 Tax Gross-Up 
$— $— $— TOTAL $9,472,313 $15,314,513 $6,176,992 Curtis Y. Arledge 
Cash Severance
(1) $1,300,000 $19,990,000 $— Pro-rated Bonus(1) $7,476,000 $9,345,000 $— Health and Welfare Benefits 
$16,490 $16,490 $— Additional Retirement Benefits
(2) $— $— $— Additional Option Vesting
(3) $1,232,036 $1,232,036 $1,232,036 Additional Stock Award Vesting
(4) $18,516,898 $23,913,835 $23,913,835 Tax Gross-Up 
$— $— $— TOTAL $28,541,424 
$54,497,361 $25,145,871 
Karen B. Peetz Cash Severance
(1) $1,300,000 $7,390,000 $— Pro-rated Bonus(1) $ 3,661,613 
$ 3,045,000 
$— Health and Welfare Benefits 
$10,375 $10,375 $— Additional Retirement Benefits
(2) $— $— $— Additional Option Vesting
(3) $— $— $— Additional Stock Award Vesting
(4) $— $— $— Tax Gross-Up 
$— $— $— TOTAL $4,971,988 $10,445,375 $— 64 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 2. ADVISORY VOTE ON COMPENSATION 
> Executive Compensation Tables@ 
Named Executive Officer 
By Company 
without Cause 
Termination in 
Connection with 
Change of Control Death 
Brian T. Shea 
Cash Severance
(1) $1,200,000 $8,760,000 $— Pro-rated Bonus(1) $5,465,880 $3,780,000 $— Health and Welfare Benefits 
$16,855 $16,855 $— Additional Retirement Benefits
(2) $— $— $— Additional Option Vesting
(3) $386,141 $386,141 $386,141 Additional Stock Award Vesting
(4) $1,855,980 $1,855,980 $1,855,980 Tax Gross-Up 
$— $— $— TOTAL $8,924,856 $14,798,976 $2,242,121 (1) Amounts shown assume that no named executive officer received payment from any displacement program, supplemental unemployment plan or other separation 
benefit other than the executive severance plan. Amounts have been calculated in accordance with the terms of the applicable agreements. For terminations by the 

company without cause, amounts will be paid in installments over a two-year period following termination. For terminations in connection with a change of control, 

amounts will be paid in a lump sum. 
(2) Amounts shown include amounts that would be payable automatically in a lump sum distribution upon death. For benefits that would not be payable automatically in a 

lump sum, the amount included is the present value based on the assumptions used for purposes of measuring pension obligations under FASB ASC 715 (formerly SFAS 

No. 87) as of December 31, 2015, including a discount rate of 4.48%. Amounts shown include only the amount by which a named executive officer’s retirement benefit is 

enhanced as a result of termination, pursuant to, where applicable, required notices given after the existence of a right to payment. Information relating to the present 

value, whether the amounts are paid in a lump sum or on an annual basis and the duration of each named executive officer’s accumulated retirement benefit can be 

found in “Pension Benefits” on page 59 above. 
(3) The value of Additional Option Vesting represents the difference between the closing price of our common stock on December 31, 2015 ($41.22) and the exercise price 

of all unvested options that would vest on or after a separation from employment that would not vest on retirement alone. Information relating to the vesting of options 
on retirement can be found in “Retirement Benefits” on page 62 above. 
(4) The value of Additional Stock Award Vesting represents the value at December 31, 2015 of all shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units (along with cash dividends 
accrued on the restricted stock units), and earned PSUs (along with dividend equivalents on the PSUs) that on that date were subject to service-based restrictions, which 

restrictions lapse on or after certain terminations of employment, including following a change of control, to the extent such restrictions would not lapse on retirement 

alone. Information relating to the vesting of stock awards on retirement can be found in “Retirement Benefits” on page 62 above. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
65 ITEM 3. APPROVAL OF THE 2016 EICP 
> Resolution@ 
The Board of 
Directors unanimously 
recommends that you vote 
“FOR” the approval of the 
2016 EICP. 
Proposal We are asking stockholders to approve The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2016 Executive Incentive 
Compensation Plan (the “2016 EICP”). 
Background • The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Executive Incentive 

Compensation Plan (the “EICP”) was originally adopted by 

our Board of Directors, and approved by stockholders, in 

2008 and an amended and restated version was subsequently 

adopted by our Board, and approved by stockholders, in 

2011. • Upon recommendation of the HRC Committee, our Board of 

Directors adopted the 2016 EICP on February 22, 2016, 

subject to stockholder approval. The 2016 EICP is 

substantially the same as the EICP approved by stockholders 

in 2011, but has been updated to reflect recent changes in 

accounting terminology, to incorporate clarifications of listed 

performance goals and to revise certain of the administrative 

provisions. • Section 162(m) of the IRC generally imposes a $1 million limit on the amount that we may deduct for compensation 

paid to our chief executive officer and three other most highly compensated executive officers (other than our chief 

financial officer), subject to certain exceptions. The 2016 EICP is intended to allow us to make awards intended to 

satisfy the “performance-based” compensation exception under Section 162(m). 
• One of the requirements of “performance-based” compensation is that the material terms of the performance goals 

under which compensation may be paid must be disclosed to and approved by stockholders at least once every 5 

years. Stockholder approval of this proposal will constitute approval of the material terms of the 2016 EICP for 

purposes of Section 162(m). 
Voting Adoption of this proposal requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast (including abstentions) on the 

proposal at the Annual Meeting by the holders of our common stock voting in person or by proxy. If the 2016 EICP is not 

approved by our stockholders, no awards may be granted under the EICP following the 2016 Annual Meeting. 
66 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 3. APPROVAL OF THE 2016 EICP 
> Key Terms of the 2016 EICP@ 
The following summary of the key terms of the 2016 EICP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of 
the 2016 EICP, which is attached hereto as Annex B. Capitalized terms used in this proposal that are not otherwise 

defined have the meanings given to them in the 2016 EICP. 
Highlights of the 2016 EICP 
Purpose The Board unanimously recommends a vote “FOR” the 2016 EICP, because it believes that 

the 2016 EICP is in the best interests of the company and our stockholders. The 2016 EICP 

promotes our financial interests, including by 
• attracting and retaining officers and key executives of outstanding competence; 
• motivating officers and key executives by means of performance-related incentives; and 
• providing competitive incentive compensation opportunities. 
The 2016 EICP also allows us to make awards intended to satisfy the “performance-based” 
compensation exception under Section 162(m) of the IRC. 
Eligible Grantees 
Our executive employees who are, or are expected to be, “covered employees” under 

Section 162(m) of the IRC, and other executive employees selected for participation in the 

HRC Committee’s discretion, are eligible to participate in the 2016 EICP. As of March 11, 

2016, 13 employees would have been eligible to participate in the 2016 EICP. 
Annual Limit 
The maximum amount payable in cash to any one participant under the 2016 EICP for any 

calendar year is the sum of (1) 0.5% of the company’s positive pre-tax income from 

continuing operations, before the impact of the cumulative effect of accounting changes and 

unusual or infrequently occurring items, as disclosed on our consolidated statement of 

income for such year included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC 

and (2) $3,000,000. 
For illustration, the maximum amount as calculated for 2015 would have been $25,450,000. 
The maximum is included for the purpose of complying with IRC Section 162(m) and in 

comparison, our actual 2015 incentive awards ranged from $1,008,000 to $12,096,000. 
Section 162(m) of the IRC; Performance Goals 
Section 162(m) of the IRC generally imposes a $1 million limit on the amount that we may deduct for compensation paid 

to our chief executive officer and three other most highly compensated executive officers (other than our chief financial 

officer), subject to certain exceptions. The 2016 EICP is intended to allow us to make awards that satisfy the 

“performance-based” compensation exception under Section 162(m). 
It is expected that there will be one-year performance periods that begin on January 1 of each year under the 2016 EICP, 
consistent with our current practice. Performance periods of different durations may be established, including longer and 

multi-year periods, and shorter performance periods for individuals who are hired or become eligible after the 

commencement of the performance period. A new performance period will generally begin on January 1 of each 

calendar year and end on December 31 of that calendar year. Within 90 days after the beginning of each performance 

period, the HRC Committee will establish specific performance goals for the period. 
The performance goals may be based on one or more of the following objective performance measures and expressed 
in either absolute or relative values or as a percentage of an incentive pool: 
• earnings, earnings per share or operating earnings per share; 
• book value per share; 
• total return to stockholders; 
• return on equity (including return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity), assets, capital or investment; 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
67 ITEM 3. APPROVAL OF THE 2016 EICP 
> Key Terms of the 2016 EICP 
• pre-tax margins; 
• revenues; • expenses; • costs; • stock price; 
• investment performance of funds or accounts or assets under management; 
• market share; 
• charge-offs; • non-performing assets; 
• income;@ • operating, net or pre-tax income;@ 
• business diversification;@ 
• operating ratios (including, without limitation, operating leverage, capital ratios (including Tier 1 common capital ratio) 
or risk-measurement ratios (including return on risk-weighted assets)) or results; and 
• cash flow 
The performance goals may be based on our performance, the performance of any of our affiliates, branches, 
departments, business units or portion thereof. The performance goals may also be based on a comparison of 

performance with that of a peer group, prior performance periods or other measure(s) selected or defined by the HRC 

Committee at the beginning of the performance period. 
At the commencement of each performance period, the HRC Committee will also establish a payment schedule, setting 
forth the amount or percentage of an incentive pool to be paid based on the extent to which the performance goals for 

such period are actually achieved. The payment schedule may be expressed by any measure specified by the HRC 

Committee. Results against the performance goals will be determined and measured by an objective calculation method 

established by the HRC Committee at the time such goals are established, and the HRC Committee may determine, at 

the time such goals are established, that unusual items or certain specified events or occurrences, including changes in 

accounting standards or tax laws and the effects of non-operational or unusual or infrequently occurring items, will be 

excluded from the calculation of the performance goals. 
Payment of any award under the 2016 EICP is contingent upon the attainment of the pre-established performance goals, 
and the amount paid may not exceed the amount established on the payment schedule. The HRC Committee may, 

however, reduce or eliminate any incentive award payable for any reason, including to reflect risk-based adjustments, 

provided that the action will not result in any increase in the amount of any incentive award payable to any other 

participant. Other Key Terms 
Administration The 2016 EICP will be administered by the HRC Committee, consisting of not less than two members of the Board. Each 

member of the HRC Committee must be an “outside director” as defined in IRC Section 162(m), a “non-employee 

director” as defined in Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, an “independent director” under the NYSE listing standards, and 

an independent director under any other applicable regulatory requirements. The HRC Committee has the power to 

select employees to participate in, determine the size of awards under, approve payment of all awards under, and make 

all necessary determinations under the 2016 EICP. 
Payment of Incentive Awards 
Awards under the 2016 EICP will be paid in cash on the dates specified in the participant’s award agreement, which may 

include a deferred payment date, and if no dates are specified the awards will be paid during the two and one-half 

month period following the end of the year in which the performance period ends and after the HRC Committee has 
68 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 3. APPROVAL OF THE 2016 EICP 
> Key Terms of the 2016 EICP 
determined and certified in writing the extent to which the performance goals were attained and the incentive awards 
were earned. The HRC Committee may determine to pay awards in our common stock, from the LTIP, or other 

applicable plan, or any combination of cash and stock. 
As highlighted above, the maximum amount payable in cash to any one participant under the 2016 EICP for any 
calendar year (or any portion thereof in the case of a performance period of less than one calendar year) is the sum of 

(1) 0.5% of the Company’s positive pre-tax income from continuing operations, before the impact of the cumulative 
effect of accounting changes and unusual or infrequently occurring items, as disclosed on our consolidated statement of 

income for such year included within our annual report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC and (2) $3,000,000. The 

amount payable for any one calendar year is measured for the year in which the relevant performance period ends, and 

for which the relevant performance goals are certified or achieved, regardless of the fact that payment may occur in a 

later year. In the case of multi-year performance periods, the amount which is earned for any one calendar year is the 

amount paid for the performance period divided by the number of calendar years in the performance period. In any year 

in which the company has negative pre-tax income, the maximum amount would be $3,000,000. 
Termination of Employment 
Unless the HRC Committee determines otherwise, in the event a participant’s employment is terminated prior to the 

payment date of an incentive award, the participant will forfeit all rights to any award for such performance period. 
Change in Control 
Unless the HRC Committee determines otherwise, in the event a change in control (as defined in the LTIP) occurs, at the 

time of the event, the then-current performance period will end. All performance criteria and other conditions pertaining 

to then-outstanding awards will be deemed to be achieved or fulfilled on a pro rata basis for the number of whole 

months elapsed from the commencement of the performance period over the number of whole months in the original 

performance period, and measured at the actual performance level achieved or, if not determinable, in the manner 

specified by the HRC Committee at the commencement of the performance period. 
Forfeiture of Awards 
An award otherwise payable or paid to current or former executive officers may be forfeited and repaid to us as required 

by regulations, including the “clawback” provisions of Section 954 of the Dodd-Frank Act, and the HRC Committee may 

determine that an award will be forfeited or must be repaid upon terms specified including, without limitation, if the 

participant directly or indirectly engages in competitive conduct or other conduct that is materially adverse to our 

interests, including fraud or conduct contributing to financial restatements or irregularities. 
Amendment or Termination of the 2016 EICP 
We may amend, suspend or terminate the 2016 EICP at any time, subject to any shareholder approval requirements of 

Section 162(m) of the IRC. No awards may be granted under the 2016 EICP subsequent to our annual meeting of 

stockholders in 2021. 
Federal Income Tax Consequences 
A participant will not recognize any taxable income for federal income tax purposes upon establishment of a payment 

schedule. Any cash or stock received pursuant to an incentive award will be treated as compensation income received by 

the participant generally in the year in which the participant receives such cash or stock. We generally will be entitled to 

a deduction for compensation paid in the same amount treated as compensation income to the participant. 
As described above, Section 162(m) of the IRC generally imposes a $1 million limit on the amount that we may deduct for 
compensation paid to our chief executive officer and three other most highly compensated executive officers (other than 

our chief financial officer), subject to certain exceptions. While we expect to make awards under the 2016 EICP that are 

intended to satisfy the “performance-based” compensation exception under Section 162(m), Section 162(m) and the rules 

and regulations issued thereunder are complicated and subject to change from time to time and, accordingly, there can be 

no assurance that any amounts paid under the 2016 EICP will be deductible under all circumstances. In addition, the HRC 

Committee believes that in certain circumstances stockholders’ interests may best be served by offering compensation that 

is not fully deductible, where appropriate, to attract, retain and motivate talented executives. Accordingly, the HRC 

Committee has discretion to authorize compensation that does not qualify for income tax deductibility. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
69 ITEM 3. APPROVAL OF THE 2016 EICP 
> Plan Benefits@ 
New Plan Benefits 
The actual amount of compensation to be paid to participants under the 2016 EICP is not determinable in advance 
because it is substantially uncertain whether the minimum levels of performance necessary to achieve any level of 

incentive award under the 2016 EICP, and what levels of performance, will be realized. In addition, the HRC Committee 

has retained discretion to reduce or eliminate the incentive awards payable to any participant under the 2016 EICP. As a 

result, the benefits that will be awarded or paid under the 2016 EICP are not currently determinable. 
Existing Plan Benefits 
The following table sets forth the amount paid to participants under the current EICP, for the 2015 fiscal year, to each 

named executive officer, all current executive officers as a group and all current non-executive officer participants as a 

group. Non-employee directors are not eligible to participate in the EICP or the 2016 EICP; accordingly, they are 

omitted from the table. The awards paid in 2015 would not have changed had the 2016 EICP been in place instead of 

the current EICP. 
Name and Position 
Actual Amount of Awards for 
the 2015 Fiscal Year 
Gerald L. Hassell, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer 
$12,096,000 Thomas P. “Todd” Gibbons, Vice Chairman & Chief Financial Officer 
$5,392,800 Curtis Y. Arledge, Vice Chairman & CEO of Investment Management* 
$7,476,000 Karen B. Peetz, President 
$3,661,613 Brian T. Shea, Vice Chairman & CEO of Investment Services 
$5,465,880 All current executive officers, as a group (8 persons) 
$38,341,293 All current non-executive officers, as a group (5 persons) 
$14,314,344 * Mr. Arledge is no longer serving as Vice Chairman and CEO of Investment Management, and his employment with BNY Mellon is scheduled to terminate on March 23, 2016. 70 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
  ITEM 4. RATIFICATION OF KPMG LLP 
> Resolution@ 
The Board of Directors  
unanimously recommends  
that you vote 
“FOR” ratiﬁcation of the 
appointment of KPMG LLP
 as our independent registered 
public accountants for the year 
ending December 31, 2016. 
Proposal We are asking stockholders to ratify the Audit Committee’s appointment of KPMG LLP as our independent registered 
public accountants for the year ending December 31, 2016. 
Background KPMG LLP or its predecessors have served as our independent registered public accounting firm since the merger in 

2007 and previously served as the independent registered public accountant of Mellon since 1972. The Audit Committee 

and the Board believe that the continued retention of KPMG LLP to serve as independent registered public accounting 

firm for the 2016 fiscal year is in the best interests of the company and its stockholders. 
Our Audit Committee has direct responsibility: 
• For the appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of 
the work of our independent registered public accountants 

engaged to prepare an audit report or to perform other audit, 

review or attestation services for us. 
• To negotiate and approve the audit engagement fees and terms 

associated with the retention of KPMG LLP. 
• To annually evaluate and, as appropriate, replace KPMG LLP as 

our independent registered public accountant and discuss with 

management the timing and process for implementing the 

mandatory rotation of the lead engagement partner. 
We expect that representatives of KPMG LLP will be present at the 

Annual Meeting to respond to appropriate questions, and they will 

have the opportunity to make a statement if they desire. 
Voting Adoption of this proposal requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast on the proposal at the Annual 

Meeting by the holders of our common stock voting in person or by proxy. Unless contrary instructions are given, shares 

represented by proxies solicited by the Board will be voted “for” the ratification of the selection of KPMG LLP as our 

independent registered public accountants for the year ending December 31, 2016. 
If the selection of KPMG LLP is not ratified by our stockholders, the Audit Committee will reconsider the matter. If 
selection of KPMG LLP is ratified, the Audit Committee in its discretion may still direct the appointment of a different 

independent registered public accountant at any time during the year if it determines that such a change is in our best 

interests. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
71 ITEM 4. RATIFICATION OF KPMG LLP 
> Report of The Audit Committee@ 
On behalf of our Board of Directors, the Audit Committee oversees the operation of a comprehensive system of internal 
controls with respect to the integrity of our financial statements and reports, compliance with laws, regulations and 

corporate policies and the qualifications, performance and independence of our independent registered public 

accounting firm. The committee’s function is one of oversight, since management is responsible for preparing our 

financial statements, and our independent registered public accountants are responsible for auditing those statements. 
Accordingly, the committee has reviewed and discussed with management the audited financial statements for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 and management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 

2015. KPMG LLP issued its unqualified report on our financial statements and the operating effectiveness of our internal 

control over financial reporting. 
The committee has also discussed with KPMG LLP the matters required to be discussed in accordance with Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard, Communications with Audit Committees. The committee has 

also received the written disclosures and the letter from KPMG LLP required by applicable requirements of the Public 

Company Accounting Oversight Board, which we refer to as the “PCAOB,” regarding the independent accountants’ 

communications with the Audit Committee concerning auditor independence, and has conducted a discussion with 

KPMG LLP regarding its independence. The committee has determined that KPMG LLP’s provision of non-audit services 

is compatible with its independence. 
Based on these reviews and discussions, the committee recommended to the Board of Directors that our audited 
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 be included in our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
By: The Audit Committee 
Joseph J. Echevarria, Chair 
Richard J. Kogan 

John A. Luke, Jr. 

Mark A. Nordenberg 

Catherine A. Rein 

William C. Richardson 

Samuel C. Scott III 
72 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 4. RATIFICATION OF KPMG LLP 
> Services Provided by KPMG LLP@ 
Audit Fees, Audit-Related Fees, Tax Fees and All Other Fees 
We have been advised by KPMG LLP that it is an independent public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and 
that it complies with the auditing, quality control and independence standards and rules of the PCAOB and the SEC. The 

appointment of KPMG LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for the 2015 fiscal year was ratified at 

our 2015 Annual Meeting. The following table reflects the fees earned by KPMG LLP for services provided to us for 2015 

and 2014: 
Description of Fees 
Amount of Fees Paid 
to KPMG LLP for 2015 
Amount of Fees Paid 
to KPMG LLP for 2014 
Audit Fees
(1) $17,304,000 $19,751,000 Audit-Related Fees
(2) $15,810,000 $13,094,000 Tax Fees
(3) $1,860,000 $2,390,000 All Other Fees
(4) $643,000 $467,000 Total $35,617,000 $35,702,000 (1) Includes fees for professional services rendered for the audit of our annual financial statements for the fiscal year (including services relating to the audit of internal 
control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) and for reviews of the financial statements included in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and for 
other services that only our independent registered public accountant can reasonably provide. 
(2) Includes fees for services that were reasonably related to performance of the audit of the annual financial statements for the fiscal year, other than Audit Fees, such as 

service organization reports (under Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (or “SSAE”) 16), employee benefit plan audits and internal control reviews. 
(3) Includes fees for tax return preparation and tax planning. 
(4) Includes fees for regulatory and other advisory services. 
Other Services Provided by KPMG LLP 
KPMG LLP also provided services to entities associated with us that were charged directly to those entities and 
accordingly were not included in the amounts disclosed in the table above. These amounts included $13.0 million for 

2015 and $15.7 million for 2014 for the audits and tax compliance services for mutual funds, collective funds and other 

funds advised by us. Also excluded from the amounts disclosed in the table above are fees billed by KPMG LLP to joint 

ventures or equity method investments in which we have an interest of 50% or less. 
Pre-Approval Policy 
Our Audit Committee has established pre-approval policies and procedures applicable to all services provided by our 

independent registered public accountants. In accordance with SEC rules, our pre-approval policy has two different 

approaches to pre-approving audit and permitted non-audit services performed by our independent registered public 

accountants. Proposed services may be pre-approved pursuant to policies and procedures established by the Audit 

Committee that are detailed as to a particular class of service without consideration by the Audit Committee of the 

specific case-by-case services to be performed (“class pre-approval”). If a class of service has not received class pre[

approval, the service will require specific pre-approval by the Audit Committee before it is provided by our independent 

registered public accountants (“specific pre-approval”). A list of services that has received class pre-approval from our 

Audit Committee (or its delegate) is attached to our Audit and Permitted Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy. A copy 

of our Audit and Permitted Non-Audit Services Pre-Approval Policy is available on our website (See “Helpful Resources” 

on page 87). For 2015, all of the fees associated with the independent registered public accounting firm services were 

pre-approved by the Audit Committee. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
73 ITEM 5. STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL REGARDING 
AN INDEPENDENT BOARD CHAIRMAN 
> Stockholder Proposal@ 
Proposal and Background 
John Chevedden, as agent for Kenneth Steiner, 14 Stoner Avenue, Great Neck, NY 11021, the beneficial owner of 500 
shares of our common stock, has given notice that he intends to introduce the following resolution at the Annual 

Meeting. In accordance with the applicable proxy regulations, the text of the proponent’s proposal and supporting 

statement, for which we accept no responsibility, are set forth immediately below and under “Stockholder’s Supporting 

Statement” on this page: 
Proposal 5 – Independent Board Chairman 
Shareholders request our Board of Directors to adopt as policy, and amend our governing documents as necessary, to 

require the Chair of the Board of Directors, whenever possible, to be an independent member of the Board. The Board 

would have the discretion to phase in this policy for the next CEO transition, implemented so it does not violate any 

existing agreement. If the Board determines that a Chair who was independent when selected is no longer independent, 

the Board shall select a new Chair who satisfies the requirements of the policy within a reasonable amount of time. 

Compliance with this policy is waived if no independent director is available and willing to serve as Chair. This proposal 

requests that all the necessary steps be taken to accomplish the above. 
Stockholder’s Supporting Statement 
It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to protect shareholders’ long-term interests by providing independent 

oversight of management. By setting agendas, priorities and procedures, the Chairman is critical in shaping the work of 

the Board. 
A board of directors is less likely to provide rigorous independent oversight of management if the Chairman is the CEO, as 
is the case with our Company. Having a board chairman who is independent of the Company and its management is a 

practice that will promote greater management accountability to shareholders and lead to a more objective evaluation of 

management. According to the Millstein Center for Corporate Governance and Performance (Yale School of Management), “The 
independent chair curbs conflicts of interest, promotes oversight of risk, manages the relationship between the board and 

CEO, serves as a conduit for regular communication with shareowners, and is a logical next step in the development of an 

independent board.” (Chairing the Board: The Case for Independent Leadership in Corporate North America, 2009.) 
An NACD Blue Ribbon Commission on Directors’ Professionalism recommended that an independent director should be 
charged with “organizing the board’s evaluation of the CEO and providing ongoing feedback; chairing executive 

sessions of the board; setting the agenda and leading the board in anticipating and responding to crises.” A blue-ribbon 

report from The Conference Board echoed that position. 
A number of institutional investors said that a strong, objective board leader can best provide the necessary oversight of 
management. Thus, the California Public Employees’ Retirement System’s Global Principles of Accountable Corporate 

Governance recommends that a company’s board should be chaired by an independent director, as does the Council of 

Institutional Investors. 
An independent director serving as chairman can help ensure the functioning of an effective board. Please vote to 
enhance shareholder value: 
Independent Board Chairman – Proposal 5 
74 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ITEM 5. STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL REGARDING 
AN INDEPENDENT BOARD CHAIRMAN 
> Board of Directors’ ResponseVoting Adoption of this proposal requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast on the proposal at the Annual 
Meeting by the holders of our common stock voting in person or by proxy. Unless contrary instructions are given, shares 

represented by proxies solicited by the Board will be voted “against” the stockholder proposal regarding an 

independent chair. 
Board of Directors’ Response 
After careful consideration, we have concluded at this time that the 

adoption of a policy mandating an independent Chairman would 

not be in the best interests of our stockholders. We therefore 

recommend that you vote AGAINST this proposal for the following 

reasons: The Board should retain the flexibility to determine the most effective leadership structure for the company. We believe that 
our stockholders’ interests are best served when the Board has the 
flexibility to choose a leadership structure that can be tailored to 

the needs of our company. This choice should not be mechanical; 

it should be contextual and based on the needs of the company 

as they evolve over time and the nature and qualifications of the 

individuals serving as Chief Executive Officer and as directors. The proponent’s proposal mandates a particular 

leadership structure, limiting the Board’s ability to leverage its particular and extensive knowledge of the company, its 

personnel and market conditions to make a determination that best serves our stockholders’ interests. 
Stockholders are best served by our current leadership structure. As described further in the “Board Leadership 
Structure” section of this proxy statement, we have reviewed our company’s current Board leadership structure and 
determined that, in light of the composition of the Board, our company’s size, the nature of our business, the regulatory 

framework under which we operate, our stockholder base, our peer group and other relevant factors, a combined 

Chairman/Chief Executive Officer position, with a strong independent Lead Director, is currently the most appropriate 

Board leadership structure for our company. A substantial majority of our company’s peer group utilizes a similar board 

structure with a combined Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as well as a lead or presiding director. Furthermore, 

according to the 
Spencer Stuart Board Index 2015, only 21 of S&P 500 companies (4%) have adopted a formal policy 
requiring separation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer roles. 
We believe that the position of a combined Chairman/Chief Executive Officer enables us to act efficiently and effectively. 
More generally, a combined Chairman/Chief Executive Officer is in the best position to be aware of major issues facing 

our company, and to identify and bring key risks and developments facing the company to the Board’s attention (in 

coordination with the Lead Director as part of the agenda-setting process). A combined Chairman/Chief Executive 

Officer is also able to act as the single public “face” of our company in communicating with stockholders, employees, 

regulators, analysts and other constituencies, eliminating uncertainty as to who leads our company. 
The company’s current governance structure provides the independent oversight of management and Board accountability to stockholders sought by the proposal. We understand the importance of, and support, independent 
oversight of management. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines require that the majority of directors be independent, 
and 10 out of our 11 director nominees are independent. Furthermore, independent directors comprise 100% of each of 

the CG&N, HRC, Audit, Finance, Risk, Technology and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees. As a result, 

independent directors oversee such critical matters as the compensation of our Chief Executive Officer, the quality and 

integrity of our financial statements and the nomination of directors. 
We have established a strong Lead Director position that serves as an effective counterbalance to factors commonly 
cited, including by the proposal’s proponent, as reasons to mandate an independent Chairman position. The Lead 

Director has the authority to review and approve meeting agendas, materials and information sent or presented to the 

Board and meeting schedules in coordination with the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, and to add items to the 

agenda (rather than merely discussing these matters with the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer). Our Lead Director is 
The Board of Directors unanimously recommends that you vote “AGAINST” the stockholder proposal. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
75 ITEM 5. STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL REGARDING 
> Board of Directors’ Response AN INDEPENDENT BOARD CHAIRMAN 
selected annually by the independent directors, not by the full Board. The Lead Director’s other duties and powers, as 
described more fully in the “Board Leadership Structure” section of this proxy statement, include acting as a liaison 

between independent directors and our Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, presiding over executive sessions of 

independent directors, which are held at each regular Board meeting, calling special meetings of the independent 

directors at his discretion and, in conjunction with the chairman of the HRC Committee, discussing with the Chairman/ 

Chief Executive Officer the Board’s annual evaluation of his performance as Chief Executive Officer. 
The Board regularly seeks and considers feedback from stockholders. The Board is open to, and regularly seeks and 
considers, feedback from stockholders, including, with respect to governance topics like the company’s leadership 
structure. Any stockholder can communicate with our Lead Director in accordance with the procedures set forth on our 

website at www.bnymellon.com/governance/contact.html. Our Lead Director makes himself available to meet with major 

stockholders and regulators under appropriate circumstances. 
As with other governance matters, we will continue to consider, as appropriate, our company’s leadership structure and 
how the leadership structure can enhance the effectiveness of our corporate governance practices. Given our company’s 

strong independent director presence, the role of the independent Lead Director and other corporate governance 

considerations, we believe that mandating that the Chairman of the Board be an independent director would not be in 

the best interests of the company. 
76 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS 
Page 78 
INFORMATION ON STOCK OWNERSHIP 
Page 79 
Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Holders of 5% or more of Outstanding Stock Page 79Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Directors and Executive Officers Page 79Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance Page 80ANNUAL MEETING Q&A 
Page 81 
OTHER INFORMATION Page 84 
Stockholder Proposals for 2017 Annual Meeting Page 84Corporate Governance Guidelines and Codes of Conduct Page 84Business Relationships and Related Party Transactions Policy Page 84How Our Board Solicits Proxies; Expenses of Solicitation Page 85Householding Page 85Other Business Page 86HELPFUL RESOURCES 
Page 87 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
77 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Equity Compensation Plans@ 
The following table shows information relating to the number of shares authorized for issuance under our equity 
compensation plans as of December 31, 2015. 
Plan Category 
Number of securities 
to be issued upon exercise 
of outstanding options, 
warrants and rights 
Weighted average 
exercise price of 
outstanding options, 
warrants and rights 
Number of securities 
remaining available for 
future issuance under 
equity compensation 
plans (excluding 
securities reflected in 
second column) Equity compensation plans 
Approved by stockholders 
52,744,190(1) $33.73 48,325,440(2) Not approved by stockholders 
140,373(3) $34.52 — Total 52,884,563(4) $33.73(5) 48,325,440 (1) Includes 36,408,419 and 7,806,406 shares of common stock that may be issued pursuant to outstanding options, RSUs, PSUs and escrowed dividends awarded under 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Mellon Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan (2004), respectively; 12,597 shares of common stock 

that may be issued pursuant to outstanding director deferred share units under the Mellon Director Equity Plan (2006); 8,502,697 shares of common stock that may be 

issued pursuant to outstanding stock-based awards under the legacy Bank of New York Long-Term Incentive Plans; and 14,071 shares of common stock that may be 

issued pursuant to outstanding stock options under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares of common stock 
that may be issued pursuant to outstanding unearned PSUs reflects the target payout. At maximum payout, the number of shares would increase by 329,564. For 
additional information about how PSUs are earned, see “Compensation Discussion and Analysis—Compensation of Our Named Executives—Outstanding Long-Term 

Equity Incentives” on page 43 above. 
(2) Includes 6,227,858 shares of common stock that remain available for issuance under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 

42,097,582 shares of common stock that remain available for issuance under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan, 27,453,939 of which 

may be granted as restricted stock or RSUs (or other full value awards), and any full-value awards from the remaining 14,643,643 shares will continue to be counted as 

2.75 shares against such remaining shares. 
(3) Includes 9,000 shares of common stock that may be issued pursuant to options outstanding under the Mellon Stock Option Plan for Affiliate Boards of Directors. The 

Mellon Stock Option Plan for Affiliate Boards of Directors, which we assumed in the merger and refer to as the “Affiliate Board Plan,” provided for grants of stock options 

to the non-employee members of affiliate boards who were not also members of Mellon’s Board of Directors. No grants were available to Mellon employees under these 

plans. The timing, amounts, recipients and other terms of the option grants were determined by the terms of the option plans for Mellon’s Board of Directors and no 

person or committee had discretion over these grants. The exercise price of the options is equal to the fair market value of Mellon’s common stock on the grant date. All 

options have a term of 10 years from the regular date of grant and become exercisable one year from the regular grant date. Directors elected during the service year 

were granted options on a pro rata basis to those granted to the directors at the start of the service year. No further grants are being made under the Affiliate Board 

Plan, although the practice was continued through 2009 by issuing grants under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan. 
Also includes shares of common stock that may be issued pursuant to deferrals under the Bank of New York Directors Plan, which is described in further detail in@ 
“Director Compensation” on page 28 above.@ 
(4) The weighted average term for the expiration of outstanding stock options under our equity compensation plans is 3.4 years. 
(5) This weighted-average exercise price relates only to the options described in footnote 1. Shares underlying RSUs, PSUs and deferred share units are deliverable without 
the payment of any consideration, and therefore these awards have not been taken into account in calculating the weighted-average exercise price. 
78 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Information on Stock Ownership 
Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Holders of 
5% or more of Outstanding Stock 
As of February 12, 2016, we had 1,076,000,279 shares of common stock outstanding. Based on filings made under@ 
Section 13(d) and 13(g) of the Exchange Act reporting ownership of shares and percent of class as of December 31, 2015,@ 

as of February 12, 2016, the only persons known by us to be beneficial owners of more than 5% of our common stock were@ 

as follows:@ 
Name and Address of Beneficial Owner 
Shares of Common Stock 
Beneficially Owned 
Percent of Class 
BlackRock, Inc.
(1) 55 East 52nd Street 
New York, NY 10055 
64,416,216 5.9% The Vanguard Group
(2) 100 Vanguard Blvd. 

Malvern, PA 19355 
60,106,066 5.49% T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc.
(3) 100 E. Pratt Street 

Baltimore, MD 21202 
56,990,243 5.2% (1) Based on a review of the Schedule 13G filed on February 10, 2016 by BlackRock, Inc. The Schedule 13G discloses that BlackRock, Inc. had sole voting power as to 
55,385,286 shares, shared voting power as to 39,348 shares, sole dispositive power as to 64,376,868 shares and shared dispositive power as to 39,348 shares. 
(2) Based on a review of the Schedule 13G filed on February 10, 2016 by The Vanguard Group. The Schedule 13G discloses that The Vanguard Group had sole voting 
power as to 2,038,466 shares, shared voting power as to 111,800 shares, sole dispositive power as to 57,942,823 shares and shared dispositive power as to 2,163,243 
shares. (3) Based on a review of the Schedule 13G filed on February 12, 2016 by T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. The Schedule 13G discloses that T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. had 
sole voting power as to 17,533,444 shares and sole dispositive power as to 56,913,143 shares. 
We and our affiliates engage in ordinary course brokerage, asset management or other transactions or arrangements 
with, and may provide ordinary course financial services, including asset management, asset servicing, clearing, issuer 

services, treasury services, global markets and credit services, to holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common 

stock. These transactions are negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and contain terms and conditions that are substantially 

similar to those offered to other customers under similar circumstances. 
Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Directors 
and Executive Officers 
The table below sets forth the number of shares of our common stock beneficially owned as of the close of business on 

February 12, 2016 by each director, each individual included in the “Summary Compensation Table” on page 54 above 

and our current directors and executive officers as a group, based on information furnished by each person. Except as 

otherwise indicated, sole voting and sole investment power with respect to the shares shown in the table below are held 

either by the individual alone or by the individual together with his or her immediate family. 
Beneficial Owners 
Shares of Common Stock 
Beneficially Owned
(1)(2) Curtis Y. Arledge 
1,490,478 Nicholas M. Donofrio 
60,539 Joseph J. Echevarria 
6,862 Edward P. Garden 
30,935,543(3) Thomas P. “Todd” Gibbons 
1,378,072(4) Jeffrey A. Goldstein 
13,347 Gerald L. Hassell 
3,174,920(5) John M. Hinshaw 
7,502 Edmund F. “Ted” Kelley 
41,932 Richard J. Kogan 
60,523 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
79 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Information
 on Stock OwnershipBeneficial Owners 
Shares of Common Stock 
Beneficially Owned
(1)(2) John A. Luke, Jr. 
60,145 Mark A. Nordenberg 
39,017 Karen B. Peetz 
424,708 Catherine A. Rein 
129,461 William C. Richardson 
61,683 Samuel C. Scott III 
51,767 Brian T. Shea 
461,297 Wesley W. von Schack 
154,860(6) All current directors and executive officers, as a group (24 persons) 
37,239,041 (1) On February 12, 2016, none of the individuals named in the above table beneficially owned more than 1% of our outstanding shares of common stock, other than 
Mr. Garden, who may be deemed to hold approximately 2.9% of our outstanding shares as a result of his affiliation with Trian (see footnote 3 below). Including shares 

held by Trian, all current directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned approximately 3.4% of our outstanding stock on February 12, 2016. 
(2) Includes the following amounts of common stock which the indicated individuals and group have the right to acquire under our equity plans and deferred compensation 

plans within 60 days of February 12, 2016: Mr. Arledge, 1,050,627; Mr. Donofrio, 14,676; Mr. Echevarria, 6,862; Mr. Garden, 3,104; Mr. Gibbons, 1,130,127; 

Mr. Goldstein, 13,347; Mr. Hassell, 2,404,865; Mr. Hinshaw, 310; Mr. Kelly, 37,498; Mr. Kogan, 32,443; Mr. Luke, 32,443; Mr. Nordenberg, 37,498; Ms. Peetz, 316,177; 

Ms. Rein, 29,661; Dr. Richardson, 60,551; Mr. Scott, 47,805; Mr. Shea, 261,947; Mr. von Schack, 44,604; and current directors and executive officers as a group, 

4,552,245. Also includes the following additional number of RSUs, earned PSUs no longer subject to performance conditions, deferred share units and phantom stock: Mr. Arledge, 
116,624; Mr. Donofrio, 45,370; Mr. Gibbons, 50,893; Mr. Hassell, 159,561; Mr. Hinshaw, 7,192; Ms. Peetz, 48,869; Ms. Rein, 63,292 Mr. Shea, 45,166; Mr. von Schack, 

30,814; and current directors and executive officers as a group, 515,760. These individuals do not have voting or investment power with respect to the underlying shares, 

nor the right to acquire the underlying shares within 60 days of February 12, 2016. 
(3) Includes 30,932,439 shares owned by the Trian Entities (as defined below). Trian serves as the management company for Trian Partners, L.P., Trian Partners Master Fund, 

L.P., Trian Partners Master Fund (ERISA), L.P., Trian Partners Parallel Fund I, L.P., Trian Partners Strategic Investment Fund II, L.P., Trian Partners Strategic Investment 

Fund-A, L.P., Trian Partners Strategic Investment Fund-D, L.P., Trian Partners Strategic Investment Fund-N, L.P., Trian Partners Fund (Sub)-G, L.P., Trian Partners Strategic 

Fund-G II, L.P., Trian Partners Strategic Fund-G III, L.P. and Trian SPV (SUB) IX, L.P. (collectively, the “Trian Entities”) and as such determines the investment and voting 

decisions of the Trian Entities with respect to the shares of the company held by them. Of such shares, approximately 27.4 million shares are currently held by brokers in 

margin loan accounts. Mr. Garden is a member of Trian Fund Management GP, LLC, which is the general partner of Trian, and therefore is in a position to determine the 

investment and voting decisions made by Trian on behalf of the Trian Entities. Accordingly, Mr. Garden may be deemed to indirectly beneficially own (as that term is 

defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) the shares beneficially owned by the Trian Entities. Mr. Garden disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares except to 
the extent of his pecuniary interests therein. 
(4) Includes 38,956 shares held by Mr. Gibbons’ children. 
(5) Includes 56,604 shares held by Mr. Hassell’s spouse, as to which Mr. Hassell disclaims beneficial ownership. Also includes 84,280 shares over which Mr. Hassell exercises 
investment discretion held in trusts. 
(6) Includes 20,269 shares held in Mr. von Schack’s Grantor Retained Annuity Trust. 
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance 
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires our directors and executive officers and any beneficial owner of more than 
10% of any class of our equity securities to file with the SEC initial reports of beneficial ownership and reports of changes 

in ownership of any of our securities. These reports are made on documents referred to as Forms 3, 4 and 5. Our 

directors and executive officers must also provide us with copies of these reports. We have reviewed the copies of the 

reports that we have received and written representations from the individuals required to file the reports. Based on this 

review, we believe that during 2015 each of our directors and executive officers timely complied with applicable 

reporting requirements for transactions in our equity securities. 
80 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Annual Meeting Q&A@ 
The Board of Directors is soliciting your proxy for our 2016 Annual Meeting of stockholders and any adjournment of the 
meeting, for the purposes set forth in the Notice of Annual Meeting. 
Q: Who Can Attend The Annual Meeting? How Do I Attend? 
A:Only stockholders as of the record date have a right to attend the Annual Meeting. If you plan to attend the Annual Meeting in person, we ask that you also complete and return the reservation form attached to the end of this proxy statement. In order to be admitted to the annual meeting, you will need to present a government-issued photo identification (such as a driver’s license or passport) and, if you are not a “record holder” on the company’s books, evidence of ownership of our common stock as of the record date (such as a brokerage account statement). If you are representing an entity that is a stockholder, you must also present documentation showing your authority to attend and act on behalf of the entity (such as a power of attorney, written proxy to vote or letter of authorization on the entity’s letterhead). We reserve the right to limit the number of representatives for any entity that may be admitted to the meeting. No cameras, recording equipment, large bags or packages will be permitted in the 
Annual Meeting. The use of cell phones, smart phones, tablets and other personal communication devices for 

any reason during the Annual Meeting is strictly prohibited. 
Q: Who Can Vote At The Annual Meeting? 
A:Only stockholders of record of our common stock at the close of business on February 12, 2016 (the “record date”) may vote at the Annual Meeting. On the record date, we had 1,076,000,279 shares of common stock outstanding. You are entitled to one vote for each share of common stock that you owned on the record date. The shares of common stock held in our treasury will not be voted. Your vote is important. Whether or not you plan to attend the Annual Meeting, we encourage you to vote your shares promptly. Q: What Is A Proxy? 
A:Your proxy gives us authority to vote your shares and tells us how to vote your shares at the Annual Meeting or any adjournment. Three of our employees, who are called “proxies” or “proxy holders” and are named on the proxy card, will vote your shares at the Annual Meeting according to the instructions you give on the proxy card or by telephone or over the Internet. Q: How Do I Vote? What Are The Different Ways I Can Vote My Shares? 
A:If you are a “stockholder of record” (that is, you hold your shares of our common stock in your own name), you may vote your shares by using any of the following methods. Depending on how you hold your shares, you may receive more than one proxy card. In Person at the Annual Meeting 
If you are a registered stockholder or hold a proxy from a registered stockholder (and meet other requirements as described in 

“Who Can Attend the Annual Meeting? How Do I Attend?” on this page 81), you may attend the Annual Meeting and vote in 

person by obtaining and submitting a ballot that will be provided at the meeting. 
By Submitting a Proxy by Mail 
To submit a proxy by mail, complete, sign, date and return the proxy card in the postage-paid envelope provided to you. 
By Submitting a Proxy by Telephone 
To submit a proxy by telephone, call the toll-free telephone number listed on the proxy card. The telephone voting procedures, as 

set forth on the proxy card, are designed to authenticate your identity, to allow you to provide your voting instructions and to 

confirm that your instructions have been properly recorded. If you vote by telephone, you should not return your proxy card. 
By Submitting a Proxy by Internet 
To submit a proxy by internet, use the internet site listed on the proxy card. The internet voting procedures, as set forth on the 

proxy card, are designed to authenticate your identity, to allow you to provide your voting instructions and to confirm that your 

instructions have been properly recorded. If you vote by internet, you should not return your proxy card. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
81 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Annual Meeting Q&A 
Q: What If I Am A “Beneficial Owner?” 
A:If you are a “beneficial owner,” also known as a “street name” holder (that is, you hold your shares of our common stock through a broker, bank or other nominee), you will receive voting instructions (including, if your broker, bank or other nominee elects to do so, instructions on how to vote your shares by telephone or over the Internet) from the record holder, and you must follow those instructions to have your shares voted at the Annual Meeting. Q: If I Vote By Proxy, How Will My Shares Be Voted? What If I Submit A Proxy Without 
Indicating How To Vote My Shares? 
A:If you vote by proxy through mail, telephone or over the Internet, your shares will be voted in accordance with your instructions. If you sign, date and return your proxy card without indicating how you want to vote your shares, the proxy holders will vote your shares in accordance with the following recommendations of the Board of Directors: Proposal 1 
FOR the election of each nominee for director. 
Proposal 2 
FOR the advisory resolution to approve the 2015 compensation of our named executive officers. 
Proposal 3 
FOR the approval of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2016 Executive Incentive 
Compensation Plan. 
Proposal 4 
FOR the ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as our independent registered public 
accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016. 
Proposal 5 
AGAINST the stockholder proposal regarding an independent Board chairman. 
In addition, if other matters are properly presented for voting at the Annual Meeting, the proxy holders are also authorized to vote on such matters as they shall determine in their sole discretion. As of the date of this proxy statement, we have not received notice of any other matters that may be properly presented for voting at the Annual Meeting. Q: What If I Want To Revoke My Proxy? 
A:You may revoke your proxy at any time before it is voted at the Annual Meeting by: • delivering a written notice of revocation to our Corporate Secretary at the address indicated on the first page of 
this proxy statement; 
• submitting another signed proxy card with a later date; 
• submitting another proxy by telephone or over the Internet at a later date; or 
• attending the Annual Meeting and voting in person. 
Q: What Is A Quorum? 
A:A quorum is the minimum number of shares required to conduct business at the Annual Meeting. Under our by=laws, to have a quorum, a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting must be represented in person or by proxy at the meeting. Abstentions and broker non-votes (as defined below) are counted as present for determining the presence of a quorum. Inspectors of election appointed for the Annual Meeting will tabulate all votes cast in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting. In the event a quorum is not present at the Annual Meeting, we expect that the Annual Meeting will be adjourned or postponed to solicit additional proxies. Q: What Vote Is Required For Approval Of A Proposal At The Annual Meeting? 
A:Our by-laws provide for a majority vote standard in an uncontested election of directors, such as this year’s election. Accordingly, each of the 11 nominees for director will be elected if more votes are cast “for” a director’s election than are cast “against” such director’s election, as discussed further under “Majority Voting Standard” on page 15 above. All other matters to be voted on at the Annual Meeting require the favorable vote of a majority of the votes cast on the applicable matter at the meeting, in person or by proxy, for approval. Under NYSE rules, abstentions will be counted as votes cast for proposal 3. In all other cases, abstentions and broker non-votes are not treated as votes cast, will not have the effect of a vote for or against a proposal or for or against a director’s election, and will not be counted in determining the number of votes required for approval or election. 82: BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Annual Meeting Q&A 
Q: What If I Hold My Shares Through A Broker? 
A:If your shares are held through a broker, the broker will ask you how you want your shares to be voted. If you give the broker instructions, your shares will be voted as you direct. If you do not give instructions, one of two things can happen, depending on the type of proposal. For the ratification of the auditor (Proposal 4), the broker may vote your shares in its discretion. For all other proposals, the broker may not vote your shares at all if you do not give instructions (this is referred to as a “broker non-vote”). BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
83 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Other Information@ 
Stockholder Proposals for 2017 Annual Meeting 
Stockholder proposals intended to be included in our proxy statement and voted on at our 2017 Annual Meeting of 
stockholders (other than proxy access nominations ) must be received at our offices at 225 Liberty Street, New York, NY 

10286, Attention: Corporate Secretary, on or before November 11, 2016. Stockholders who wish to submit a proxy 

access nomination for inclusion in our proxy statement in connection with our 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders may 

do so by submitting a nomination in compliance with the procedures and along with the other information required by 

our by-laws to 225 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10286, Attention: Corporate Secretary, no earlier than October 12, 2016 

and no later than November 11, 2016. Applicable SEC rules and regulations and the provisions of our by-laws govern 

the submission, and our consideration, of stockholder proposals or proxy access candidates for inclusion in the 2017 

Annual Meeting proxy statement and form of proxy. 
Pursuant to our by-laws, in order for any business not included in the notice of meeting for the 2017 Annual Meeting to 
be brought before the meeting by a stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting (including nominations of candidates for 

director), the stockholder must give timely written notice of that business to our Corporate Secretary. To be timely, the 

notice must not be received any earlier than November 11, 2016 (at least 120 days prior to March 11, 2017), nor any 

later than December 11, 2016 (90 days prior to March 11, 2017). The notice also must contain the information required 

by our by-laws. The foregoing by-law provisions do not affect a stockholder’s ability to request inclusion of a proposal in 

our proxy statement within the procedures and deadlines set forth in Rule 14a-8 of the SEC’s proxy rules and referred to 

in the paragraph above. A proxy may confer discretionary authority to vote on any matter at a meeting if we do not 

receive notice of the matter within the timeframes described above. A copy of our by-laws is available upon request to: 

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, 225 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10286, Attention: Corporate Secretary. The 

officer presiding at the meeting may exclude matters that are not properly presented in accordance with these 

requirements. Corporate Governance Guidelines and Codes of Conduct 
Our Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines covering, among other things, the duties and 

responsibilities and independence of our directors. The Corporate Governance Guidelines cover a number of other 

matters, including the Board’s role in overseeing executive compensation, compensation and expenses for independent 

directors, communications between stockholders and directors, the role of our Lead Director, and Board committee 

structures and assignments. 
Our Board of Directors also has adopted a Code of Conduct, which applies to all of our employees, to provide a 
framework to maintain the highest standards of professional conduct for the company, and a Code of Conduct for 

directors of the company to provide guidance to our directors to help them recognize and deal with ethical issues, 

provide mechanisms to report possible unethical conduct and foster a culture of honesty and accountability. 
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct and Directors’ Code of Conduct are available on our website 
(See “Helpful Resources” on page 87). We intend to disclose any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Conduct 

or our Directors’ Code of Conduct for executive officers and directors, respectively, by posting such information on our 

website. Business Relationships and Related Party Transactions Policy 
In the ordinary course of business, we periodically have, and expect to continue to have, banking and other transactions 

with “related persons.” A “related person” includes directors, nominees for director, executive officers, greater than 5% 

beneficial owners, members of such persons’ immediate families and any firm, corporation or other entity in which any of 

the foregoing persons is employed as a general partner or principal or in a similar position or in which such person and 

all other related persons has a 10% or greater beneficial interest. 
The Board has adopted a policy on related party transactions (our “related party transactions policy”) which was 
reviewed by the CG&N Committee. Our related party transactions policy provides that the CG&N Committee, or 

another Board committee consisting solely of independent directors, must approve any transaction(s) in which we or any 

of our subsidiaries was, is or will be a participant and where the amount involved exceeds $120,000, and in which any 
84 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Other
 Informationrelated person had, has or will have a direct or indirect material interest, such transactions constituting disclosable 
related party transactions under SEC rules. Consistent with SEC rules, our related party transactions policy provides that 

certain transactions, including employment relationships and ordinary course non-preferential transactions, entered into 

with a related person, are not considered to be related party transactions and are not required to be disclosed or 

approved by the CG&N Committee. In 2015, there were no related party transactions that required CG&N Committee 

approval or disclosure in this proxy statement. 
Our related party transactions policy provides that the CG&N Committee may recommend to our Board from time to 
time adoption of resolutions pre-approving certain types or categories of transactions that the CG&N Committee 

determines in good faith are in, or are not inconsistent with, our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. 

The Board has adopted a resolution pre-approving transactions that involve the sale or other provision of products and 

services (not subject to Regulation O or other specific regulatory requirements) by our company or its subsidiaries to 

directors and members of their immediate family, director-related companies, executive officers and members of their 

immediate family and beneficial owners of more than 5% of our common stock in the ordinary course and on terms 

generally offered in transactions with non-related persons. Transactions subject to Regulation O or other specific 

regulatory requirements are approved as required in such regulations. 
Under the related party transactions policy, in making its determination to approve a disclosable related party 
transaction, the CG&N Committee may take into consideration all relevant facts and circumstances available to it, 

including but not limited to: 
• the related person’s relationship to us and interest in the transaction; 
• the material facts of the transaction, including the amount involved; 
• the benefits to us of the transaction; 
• the availability from other sources of comparable products or services; and 
• an assessment of whether the transaction is on terms that are comparable to the terms available to or from an 
unrelated third party or to employees generally. 
The CG&N Committee also may consider the impact on a director’s independence in the event the related person is a 

director, an immediate family member of a director or a director-related company. 
Under the related party transactions policy, no member of the CG&N Committee may participate in the review, 
consideration, approval or ratification of any disclosable related party transaction with respect to which such member or 

any of his or her immediate family members or director-related company is the related person. The CG&N Committee 

may approve only those disclosable related party transactions that are in, or are not inconsistent with, our best interests 

and the best interests of our stockholders, as the CG&N Committee determines in good faith. 
Under the related party transactions policy, if a disclosable related party transaction is identified after it is already 
ongoing or completed, it must be submitted to the CG&N Committee promptly for ratification, applying the standards 

described above. In this circumstance, the CG&N Committee will evaluate all options available, including ratification, 

amendment, termination or rescission of the transaction. 
Our related party transactions policy does not limit or affect the application of our other policies applicable to our 
directors, executive officers and other related persons, including our Codes of Conduct. 
How Our Board Solicits Proxies; Expenses of Solicitation 
We will pay all costs of soliciting proxies. We have retained Georgeson Inc. to assist with the solicitation of proxies for a fee 

of approximately $17,500, plus reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses. In addition, we have agreed to pay 

Computershare a fee of approximately $45,000 in connection with project management and technical services relating to 

the distribution of this proxy statement and the Annual Report to employees and former employees participating in 

employee benefit and stock option programs. In addition, we may use our officers and employees, at no additional 

compensation, to solicit proxies either personally or by telephone, Internet, letter or facsimile. 
Householding To reduce the expense of delivering duplicate proxy materials to our stockholders, we are relying on SEC rules that 

permit us to deliver only one proxy statement to multiple stockholders who share an address unless we receive contrary 

instructions from any stockholder at that address. This practice, known as “householding,” reduces duplicate mailings, 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
85 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Other
 Informationsaves printing and postage costs as well as natural resources and will not affect dividend check mailings. If you wish to 
receive a separate copy of the Annual Report or proxy statement, or if you wish to receive separate copies of future 

Annual Reports or proxy statements, please contact our transfer agent, Computershare, by phone at 1-800-729-9606 

(U.S.) or 1-201-680-6651 (International) or by mail at Computershare, P.O. Box 30170, College Station, TX 77842. We will 

deliver the requested documents promptly upon your request. 
If you and other stockholders of record with whom you share an address currently receive multiple copies of annual 
reports or proxy statements, or if you hold our stock in more than one account and, in either case, you wish to receive 

only a single copy of the Annual Report or proxy statement, please contact our transfer agent, Computershare, with the 

names in which all accounts are registered and the name of the account for which you wish to receive mailings. 
Other Business 
As of the date of this proxy statement, we do not know of any other matters that may be presented for action at the 

meeting. Should any other business properly come before the meeting, the persons named on the enclosed proxy will, 

as stated therein, have discretionary authority to vote the shares represented by such proxy in accordance with their best 

judgment. March 11, 2016 

By Order of the Board of Directors, 
Craig T. Beazer 
Corporate Secretary 86 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
> Helpful Resources@ 
Annual Meeting< 
2016 Proxy Statement 
http://www.envisionreports.com/bk 2015 Annual Meeting 
Voting Results 
https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/investor-relations/index.jsp#ir/2015-annual[meeting-voting-results Corporate Governance< 
By-laws https://www.bnymellon.com/_global-assets/pdf/corporate-governance/the-bank-of[new-york-mellon-corporation-amended-and-restated-by-laws.pdf Committee Charters 
https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/investor-relations/index.jsp#ir/board-of-directors Corporate Governance 
Guidelines https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/investor-relations/index.jsp#ir/guidelines Contacting the Board 
https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/investor-relations/index.jsp#ir/board-of-directors Code of Conduct 
https://www.bnymellon.com/ethics/codeofconduct.pdf Directors’ Code of Conduct 
https://www.bnymellon.com/governance/directorscodeofconduct.pdf Audit and Permitted Non-

Audit Services Pre-Approval 

Policy https://www.bnymellon.com/governance/auditpolicy.pdf The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation< 
Corporate Website https://www.bnymellon.com 2015 Annual Report 
http://www.envisionreports.com/bk SEC Filings 
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=87345&p=irol-sec Corporate Social 
Responsibility Report 
https://www.bnymellon.com/csr Frequently Asked Questions 
https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/investor-relations/index.jsp#ir/faqs Company Profile https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/who-we-are/index.jsp Our Leadership https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/who-we-are/leadership/index.jsp Earnings Press Releases 
https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/investor-relations/index.jsp#ir/earnings[press-release Credit Ratings 
https://www.bnymellon.com/us/en/investor-relations/index.jsp#ir/credit-ratings BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
87 ANNEX A: NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION 
The following table reconciles our net income and diluted earnings per common share. These measures exclude the 
effects of certain items, as specified in the table. We believe that these measures are useful to investors because they 

permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons, which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit 

expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon’s control. 
Reconciliation of net income and diluted EPS 
Net income Diluted EPS 
(in millions, except per common share amounts) 2015 2014 2015 
2014 Inc 
Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon 
Corporation – GAAP 
$3,053 $2,494 $2.71 $2.15 Less: Gain on the sale of our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank 
N/A 315 N/A 0.27 Gain on the sale of our One Wall Street building 
N/A 204 N/A 0.18 Benefit primarily related to a tax carryback claim 
N/A 150 N/A 0.13 Add: Litigation and restructuring charges 
56 860 0.05 0.74 Impairment charge related to a recent court decision 
106 N/A 0.09 N/A Charge related to investment management funds, net of incentives 
N/A 81 N/A 0.07 Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New 

York Mellon Corporation – Non-GAAP 
$3,215 $2,766 $2.85 $2.39(a) 19% (a) Does not foot due to rounding. The following table presents the reconciliation of our estimated fully phased-in Basel III common equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) 

ratio under the Advanced Approach. We believe that the Basel III CET1 ratio on a fully phased-in basis is a measure of 

capital strength that provides useful information to investors, supplementing the capital ratios which are, or were, 

required by regulatory authorities. 
Estimated transitional and fully phased-in Basel III CET1 ratio 
Dec. 31, 2015 
(dollars in millions) Transitional (GAAP)(a) Fully phased-in (Non-GAAP) Common shareholders’ equity 
$36,067 $35,485 Goodwill and intangible assets 
(17,295) (18,911) Net pension fund assets 
(46) (116) Equity method investments 
(296) (347) Deferred tax assets 
(8) (20) Other (5) (9) Total CETI 
$18,417 $16,082 Risk-weighted assets – Advanced Approach 
$170,384 $168,509 CET1 ratio 
10.8% 9.5% (a) Reflects transitional adjustments to CET1 required in 2015 under the U.S. capital rules. 88 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ANNEX A: NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION 
The following table presents the reconciliation of the pre-tax operating margin ratio. This measure excludes the effects of 
certain items, as specified in the table. We believe that this measure is useful to investors because it permits a focus on 

period-to-period comparisons, which relates to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in 

circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon’s control. 
Reconciliation of income before income taxes – pre-tax operating margin 
(dollars in millions) 2015 2014 Income before income taxes – GAAP 
$ 4,235 
$ 3,563 
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment 
management funds 
68 84 Gain on the sale of our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank 
— 490 Gain on the sale of our One Wall Street building 
— 346 Add: Amortization of intangible assets 
261 298 Merger and integration (“M&I”), litigation and restructuring charges 
85 1,130 Impairment charge related to a recent court decision 
170 — Charge related to investment management funds, net of incentives 
— 104 Income before income taxes, as adjusted – Non-GAAP
(a) $ 4,683 
$ 4,175 
Fee and other revenue – GAAP 
$12,082 $12,649 Income from consolidated investment management funds – GAAP 
86 163 Net interest revenue – GAAP 
3,026 2,880 Total revenue – GAAP 
15,194 15,692 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment 
management funds 
68 84 Gain on the sale of our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank 
— 490 Gain on the sale of our One Wall Street building 
— 346 Total revenue, as adjusted – Non-GAAP
(a) $15,126 $14,772 Pre-tax operating margin
(b) 28%(c) 23% Pre-tax operating margin – Non-GAAP
(a)(b) 31%(c) 28% (a)Non-GAAP excludes net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment management funds, the gains on the sales of our equity
 investment in Wing Hang Bank and our One Wall Street building, amortization of intangible assets, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges, the impairment charge
 related to a recent court decision and the charge related to investment management funds, net of incentives, if applicable. (b)Income before taxes divided by total revenue. (c)Our GAAP earnings include tax-advantaged investments such as low income housing, renewable energy, bank-owned life insurance and tax-exempt securities.
 The benefits of these investments are primarily reflected in tax expense. If reported on a tax-equivalent basis these investments would increase revenue
 and income before taxes by $242 million and would increase our pre-tax operating margin by approximately 1.1% for 2015. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
89 ANNEX A: NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION 
The following table presents the reconciliation of operating leverage, noninterest expense and revenue. These measures 
exclude the effects of certain items, as specified in the table. We believe that these measures are useful to investors 

because they permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons, which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance 

revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon’s control. 
Pre-tax operating leverage, noninterest expense and revenue 
(dollars in millions) 2015 2014 2015 vs. 
2014 Total revenue – GAAP 
$15,194 $15,692 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment 
management funds 
68 84 Gain on the sale of our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank 
— 490 Gain on the sale of the One Wall Street building 
— 346 Total revenue, as adjusted – Non-GAAP 
$15,126 $14,772 2.40% 
Total noninterest expense – GAAP 
$10,799 $12,177 Less: Amortization of intangible assets 
261 298 M&I, litigation and restructuring charges 
85 1,130 Charge related to investment management funds, net of incentives 
— 104 Total noninterest expense, as adjusted – Non-GAAP 
$10,453 $10,645 (1.80)% 
Pre-tax operating leverage, as adjusted – Non-GAAP
(a)(b) 420bps 
(a)Pre-tax operating leverage is the rate of increase (decrease) in total revenue less the rate of increase (decrease) in total noninterest expense. (b)Non-GAAP excludes net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment management funds, the gains on the sales of our equity
 investment in Wing Hang Bank and the One Wall Street building, amortization of intangible assets, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges and the charge related to investment management funds, net of incentives, if applicable. 90 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ANNEX A: NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION< 
The following table presents the reconciliation of the returns on common equity and tangible common equity. The 
tangible common equity ratio includes changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total 

shareholders’ equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed 

to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY 

Mellon in its reconciliation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory 

purposes and the assets of consolidated investment management funds to which BNY Mellon has limited economic 

exposure. Further, we believe that the return on tangible common equity measure is a useful additional measure for 

investors because it presents a measure of those assets that can generate income. 
Return on common equity and tangible common equity 
(dollars in millions) 2015 Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation – GAAP 
$ 3,053 
Add: Amortization of intangible assets, net of tax 
172 Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 
excluding amortization of intangible assets – Non-GAAP 
3,225 Add: M&I, litigation and restructuring charges 
56 Impairment charge related to a recent court decision 
106 Net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as 

adjusted – Non-GAAP
(a)
 $ 3,387 
Average common shareholders’ equity 
$35,564 Less: Average goodwill 
17,731 Average intangible assets 
3,992 Add: Deferred tax liability – tax deductible goodwill
(b) 1,401 Deferred tax liability – intangible assets
(b) 1,148 Average tangible common shareholders’ equity – Non-GAAP 
$16,390 Return on common equity – GAAP 
8.6% Return on common equity – Non-GAAP
(a)
 9.5% Return on tangible common equity – Non-GAAP
(a)
 19.7% 
Return on tangible common equity – Non-GAAP adjusted
(a)
 20.7% 
(a) Non-GAAP excludes amortization of intangible assets, net of tax, M&I, litigation and restructuring charges and the impairment charge related to a recent
 court decision. (b) Deferred tax liabilities are based on fully phased-in Basel III rules. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
91 ANNEX B: 2016 EICP 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 
2016 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan 
February 22, 2016 
1. Purpose. The purpose of the Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated (the “
Plan”) of The 
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the “
Company”) is to promote the financial interests of the Company and its 
subsidiaries, including its growth, by (i) attracting and retaining officers and key executives of outstanding competence; 

(ii) motivating officers and key executives by means of performance-related incentives; and (iii) providing competitive 
incentive compensation opportunities. 
2. Administration. The Plan shall be administered by a committee (the “
Committee”) appointed by the Board of 
Directors of the Company (the “
Board”) and consisting of at least two members of the Board, each of whom at the time 
of appointment to the Committee and at all times during service as a member of the Committee shall be (1) an “outside 

director” as then defined in the regulations under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended 

(the “
Code”), or any successor provision, (2) a “non-employee director” as then defined under Rule 16b-3 under the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “
Exchange Act
”), or any successor rule, (3) an “independent” director 

under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (“
NYSE”), and (4) an “independent” director under any other applicable 

regulatory requirements. A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a majority of the 

members present, or acts approved in writing by a majority of the Committee without a meeting, shall be the acts of the 

Committee. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority to: (i) select the employees who will participate in the Plan (the “
Participants”); (ii) determine the size of the awards to be made under the Plan, subject to Section 4 hereof; and 
(iii) establish from time to time regulations for the administration of the Plan, interpret the Plan, and make all@ 
determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.@ 
3. Participation. Participants in the Plan shall be selected for each calendar year (each “
Plan Year
”) from those executive 
employees of the Company who (i) are, or are expected to be, “covered employees” as defined in Section 162(m) of the 
Code or (ii) are otherwise selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan. No employee shall at any time have a 

right to be selected as a Participant in the Plan for any Plan Year, to be entitled automatically to an award, nor, having 

been selected as a Participant for one Plan Year, to be a Participant in any other Plan Year. 
4. Maximum Incentive Awards. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, the maximum amount payable in cash to 
any one Participant under the Plan for any one calendar year shall be the sum of (i) .5% of the Company’s positive pre-tax 
income from continuing operations, before the impact of the cumulative effect of accounting changes and unusual or 

infrequently occurring items, as disclosed in the Company’s consolidated statement of income for such year included within 

the Company’s report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and (ii) $3,000,000. The amount 

payable for any one calendar year is measured for the year in which the relevant Performance Period ends, and for which 

the relevant Performance Goals are certified as achieved, regardless of the fact that payment may occur in a later year. In 

the case of multi-year Performance Periods, as hereinafter defined, the amount which is earned for any one calendar year is 

the amount paid for the Performance Period divided by the number of calendar years in the Performance Period. The 

limitation in this section shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code. 
5. Incentive Awards, Performance Goals and Performance Periods. Section 5.01. Incentive Awards. 
Incentive awards (“
Incentive Awards
”) may be earned by Participants during a specified 
performance period (a “
Performance Period
”) selected by the Committee in its discretion; provided, however, that (a) no 
Incentive Award may exceed the amount established for the actual level of achievement attained and (b) payment of any 

Incentive Award under the Plan shall be contingent upon the achievement of the relevant performance goals established 

by the Committee (“
Performance Goals
”) during the Performance Period. 
Section 5.02. Performance Goals. 
(a) Performance Goals. Within 90 days after the commencement of the Performance Period or, if less, before 25 
percent of the Performance Period elapses, the Committee shall establish for the relevant Performance Period all 
92 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ANNEX B: 2016 EICP< 
Performance Goals and the amounts, which may be expressed as a percentage of an incentive pool or other 
measure prescribed by the Committee, that may be earned upon their level of achievement. Performance Goals may 

be based upon one or more of the following objective performance measures (the “
Performance Criteria
”) and 

expressed in either, or a combination of, absolute or relative values or a percentage of: earnings (including earnings 

per share and operating earnings per share); book value per share; total return to stockholders; return on equity 

(including return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity), assets, capital or investment; pre-tax margins; 

revenues; expenses; costs; stock price; investment performance of funds or accounts or assets under management; 

market share; charge-offs; non-performing assets; income; operating, net or pre-tax income; business diversification; 

operating ratios (including, operating leverage, capital ratios (including Tier 1 common capital ratio) or risk-

measurement ratios (including return on risk weighted assets)) or results; and cash flow. Performance Goals based on 

such Performance Criteria may be based either on the performance of the Company, an Affiliate, any branch, 

department, business unit or other portion thereof under such measure for the Performance Period and/or upon a 

comparison of such performance with the performance of a peer group of corporations, prior Performance Periods or 

other measure selected or defined by the Committee at the time of establishment. The Committee may in its 

discretion also determine to use other objective performance measures for Performance Goals and/or other terms 

and conditions even if the award would not qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, provided that the Committee 

identifies the award as non-qualifying at the time of award. Performance Goals may include one or more type of 

performance goal. 
(b) Calculation. When the Performance Goals are established, the Committee shall also specify the manner in which 
the level of achievement of such Performance Goals shall be calculated and the weighting assigned to such 
Performance Goals. The Committee may determine that unusual items or certain specified events or occurrences, 

including changes in accounting standards or tax laws and the effects of non-operational items or unusual or 

infrequently occurring items, shall be excluded from the calculation to the extent permitted in Section 162(m) of the 

Code. Performance Goals based directly or indirectly upon the Company’s common stock shall be adjusted 

proportionately in the event of any change in the common stock by reason of a stock split, stock dividend, exchange, 

combination or reclassification of shares, recapitalization, merger, spin-off, split-off, split-up, dividend in partial 

liquidation, dividend in property other than cash, extraordinary distribution, or similar event in a manner compliant 

with Section 162(m) of the Code. 
Section 5.03. Performance Periods. 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, there shall be one year 

Performance Periods under the Plan, and a new Performance Period shall commence on the first day of each Plan Year 

and end on the last day of such Plan Year. The Committee may establish longer Performance Periods, including multi-

year Performance Periods, and the Committee may also establish shorter Performance Periods for individuals who are 

hired or become eligible after the commencement of a Performance Period. Unless otherwise determined by the 

Committee, the first Performance Period under the Plan shall commence on January 1, 2017 and end on December 31, 

2017. Section 5.04. Discretion. 
The Committee shall have no discretion to increase any Incentive Award payable that would 
otherwise be due upon attainment of the Performance Goals, or otherwise modify any Performance Goals associated 
with a Performance Period, but the Committee may in its discretion reduce or eliminate such Incentive Award; provided, 

however, that the exercise of such negative discretion shall not be permitted to result in any increase in the amount of 

any Incentive Award payable to any other Participant. 
Section 5.05. Determination of Incentive Award. 
The amount of a Participant’s Incentive Award for a Plan Year, if any, 
shall be determined by the Committee or its delegate in accordance with the level of achievement of the applicable 
Performance Goals and the other terms of the Plan. Prior to any payment of the Incentive Awards hereunder, the 

Committee shall determine and certify in writing the extent to which the Performance Goals and other material terms of 

the Plan were satisfied. 
6. Termination of Employment. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant whose employment or 
service with the Company and all subsidiaries and affiliates is terminated prior to the date of payment of an Incentive 
Award will forfeit all rights to any award for such Performance Period. 
BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
93 ANNEX B: 2016 EICP< 
7. Payment to Participants. Section 7.01. Timing of Payment. 
An Incentive Award for a Performance Period shall be paid to the Participant on the 
date(s) specified in the Award Agreement, provided that if no date(s) are specified, then an Incentive Award shall be paid 
during the 2 
1/2 month period following the end of the year in which the Performance Period ends, subject to any 
permitted deferral election. 
Section 7.02. Form of Payment. 
Payment of Incentive Awards shall be made in cash; provided, however, that the 
Committee may, in its discretion, determine to pay an Incentive Award in shares of Company common stock from the 
Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan, or other applicable plan, or any combination of cash and stock. In the case of 

payment in stock, the number of shares so awarded shall be determined by dividing the dollar value of the award to be 

paid in stock by the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the NYSE at the NYSE’s official closing time on the 

date the award is paid or, if there are no sales of stock on the NYSE on such date, the closing price of the stock on the 

last previous day on which a sale on the NYSE is reported. 
Section 7.03. Tax Withholding. 
All Incentive Awards shall be subject to Federal income, FICA, and other tax 
withholding as required by applicable law. 

8. Change in Control. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if any Change in Control, as defined in the 
Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan at the time of the event, occurs prior to the end of any Performance Period, the 
then-current Performance Period shall automatically end and all Performance Criteria and other conditions pertaining to 

awards shall be deemed to be achieved or fulfilled on a pro-rata basis for (i) the number of whole months elapsed from 

the commencement of the Performance Period through the Change in Control over (ii) the number of whole months 

included in the original Performance Period, based on the actual performance level achieved or, if not determinable, in 

the manner specified by the Committee at the commencement of the Performance Period, and shall be waived by the 

Company. Such awards shall be payable as provided in Section 7. 
9. Forfeiture. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, any incentive-based compensation otherwise payable or 
paid to current or former executive officers shall be forfeited and/or repaid to the Company as may be required pursuant 
to applicable regulatory requirements and the Committee may determine in its discretion that an award shall be forfeited 

and/or shall be repaid to the Company upon terms specified including, if the Participant directly or indirectly engages in 

(i) competition with the Company or any of its affiliates or (ii) conduct that is materially adverse to the interests of the 
Company, including fraud or conduct contributing to any financial restatements or irregularities. 
10. No Assignments and Transfers. A Participant shall not assign, encumber or transfer his rights and interests under 
the Plan and any attempt to do so shall render those rights and interests null and void. 

11. No Rights to Awards or Employment. No employee of the Company or its affiliates or other person shall have any 
claim or right to be granted an award under this Plan. Neither the Plan nor any action taken thereunder shall be 
construed as giving any employee any right to be retained in the employ of the Company or its affiliates. All grants of 

Incentive Awards and delivery of shares, cash or other property under an Incentive Award granted under the Plan shall 

constitute a special discretionary incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be required to be taken into account 

in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participant for the purpose of determining any contributions 

to or any benefits under any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, life insurance, severance or other benefit plan of 

the Company or under any agreement with the Participant unless specifically provided otherwise in the Incentive Award 

or underlying Plan, arrangement or agreement. Subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the Company 

shall have the right to offset against its obligation to pay or deliver shares pursuant to an Incentive Award to any 

Participant, any outstanding amounts such Participant then owes to the Company and any amounts the Committee 

otherwise deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement. Except as otherwise provided in an 

Incentive Award, neither this Plan nor any Incentive Award or agreement with respect thereto shall confer on any person 

other than the Company or a Participant any rights or remedies hereunder. 
12. Amendment or Termination. The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any 
time, subject to any stockholder approval requirements under Section 162(m) of the Code. 

13. Effective Date. The Plan as amended and restated shall be effective as of April 12, 2016, provided that the Plan is 
approved by stockholders of the Company prior to the payment of any compensation awarded hereunder following the 
date of amendment and restatement. 
94 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
ANNEX B: 2016 EICP< 
14. Term. No awards may be granted under the Plan subsequent to the Company’s annual meeting of stockholders in 
2021. 15. Section 409A. The intent of the parties is that payments under the Plan will comply with Section 409A of the Code 
to the extent subject thereto or be exempt therefrom and, accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted the Plan shall 
be interpreted and administered to be in compliance therewith. Any payments provided under the Plan that are payable 

within the short-term deferral period as defined in Section 409A of the Code shall not be treated as deferred 

compensation unless otherwise required by applicable law. To the extent a Participant would otherwise be entitled to 

any payment under this Plan, or any plan or arrangement of the Corporation or its affiliates, that constitutes “deferred 

compensation” subject to Section 409A payable by reason of separation from service, and that if paid or provided 

during the six months beginning on the date of termination of a Participant’s employment would be subject to the 

Section 409A additional tax because the Participant is a “specified employee” (within the meaning of Section 409A and 

as determined by the Corporation) the payment will be paid (or will commence being paid, if applicable) to the 

Participant on the earlier of the six month anniversary of the Participant’s date of termination or the Participant’s death. 

Each payment made under this Plan shall be deemed to be a separate payment. 
16. Choice of Forum. (a) Unless otherwise specified in the written documents evidencing the Incentive Award (the “
Award Agreement
”), it 
shall be a condition of each Incentive Award that the Corporation and the Participant irrevocably submit to the 
exclusive jurisdiction of any state or federal court located in New York, New York over any suit, action or proceeding 

arising out of or relating to or concerning the Plan or the Incentive Award. By accepting an Incentive Award, the 

Participant acknowledges that the forum designated by this Section 16(a) has a reasonable relation to the Plan, any 

applicable Incentive Award and the Participant’s relationship with the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 

nothing herein shall preclude the Corporation from bringing any suit, action or proceeding in any other court for the 

purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Section 16(a) or otherwise. 
(b) By accepting an Incentive Award, (i) the Participant waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any 
objection which the Participant may have to personal jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or 
proceeding in any court referred to in Section 16(a), (ii) the Participant undertakes not to commence any action 

arising out of or relating to or concerning any Incentive Award in any forum other than a forum described in this 

Section 16 and (iii) the Participant agrees that, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, a final and non[

appealable judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon 

the Participant and the Corporation. 
(c) Unless otherwise specified in the Award Agreement, by accepting an Incentive Award, the Participant irrevocably 
appoints each General Counsel of the Corporation as his or her agent for service of process in connection with any 

suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Plan or any award thereunder, who shall 

promptly advise the Participant of any such service or process. 
(d) Unless otherwise specified in an Award Agreement, by accepting an Incentive Award, the Participant agrees to 
keep confidential the existence of, and any information concerning, a dispute, controversy or claim described in this 
Section 16, except that the Participant may disclose information concerning such dispute, controversy or claim to 

court that is considering such dispute, controversy or claim or to his legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees 

not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of the dispute, 

controversy or claim). 
17. Construction, Headings. Unless the context requires otherwise, (a) words describing the singular number include the 
plural and vice versa, (b) words denoting any gender include all genders and (c) the words “include,” “includes” and 

“including” will be deemed to be followed by the words “without limitation.” The headings in this Plan are for the 

purpose of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof. 

References in this Plan to any specific Plan provision will not be construed as limiting the applicability of any other Plan 

provision. BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
95 Corporate Social Responsibility 
Invested in Market Integrity 
Stable, well-functioning markets help communities around the world grow and thrive. As a major global financial institution, we have a critical role to play in contributing to market integrity. We continually innovate to make our business stronger, more efficient and more responsible. Invested in Our People 
A company is as good as its people. Among our global workforce, over 50,000 strong, are some of the sharpest minds and most innovative professionals in the investment industry. We start with a diverse and inclusive range of individuals and then invest in their talents to their fullest potential. Invested in Our World 
Invested in the world means to be invested in our individual communities all around the world. With our vast global scope and operations in over 100 markets, BNY Mellon is an integral part of many communities. Our commitment to human rights, the environment and overall community well-being is an essential part of who we are and how we do business. Cut here Reservation Form for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
Stockholders who expect to attend the Annual Meeting at 9:00 a.m. on April 12, 2016 at 101 Barclay Street in New York, 
NY should complete this form and return it to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, The Bank of New York Mellon 

Corporation, 225 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10286. Admission cards will be provided at the check-in desk at the 

meeting (please be prepared to show proof of identification). 
Stockholders holding stock in brokerage accounts will 
need to bring a copy of a brokerage statement reflecting The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation stock 

ownership as of the record date, which is February 12, 2016. 
Name: (Please Print) 
Address: (Please Print) 
96 BNY Mellon 
2016 Proxy Statement 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 
225 Liberty Street 

New York, NY 10286 

+1 212 495 1784 
www.bnymellon.com 