2006ANNUALREPORT
JPMORGANCHASE& CO.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(NYSE:JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $1.4 trillion 
and operations in more than 50 countries.The firm is a leader in investment banking,financial services for

consumers,small business and commercial banking,financial transaction processing,asset management 

and private equity.A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average,JPMorgan Chase serves millions 

of consumers in the United States and many of the world™s most prominent corporate,institutional and 

government clients under its JPMorgan and Chase brands.
Information about JPMorgan capabilities can be found at www.jpmorgan.com and about Chase capabilities 
at www.chase.com.Information about the firm is available at www.jpmorganchase.com.
As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share,ratio and headcount data)
20062005Reported basis
(a)Total net revenue 
$61,437
$53,748
Provision for credit losses  3,270 3,483Total noninterest expense 
38,28138,426Income from continuing operations13,6498,254Net income$14,444
$8,483
Per common share:Basic earnings per shareIncome from continuing operations$3.93
$2.36
Net income4.162.43Diluted earnings per shareIncome from continuing operations$3.82
$2.32
Net income4.042.38Cash dividends declared per share1.361.36Book value per share
33.4530.71Return on common equityIncome from continuing operations12%8%Net income138Return on common equity (net of goodwill)Income from continuing operations20%13%Net income2214Tier 1 capital ratio 
8.78.5Total capital ratio           
12.312.0Total assets 
$1,351,520
$1,198,942
Loans                     
483,127419,148Deposits                  
638,788554,991Total stockholders™ equity              
115,790107,211Headcount174,360168,847(a) Results are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS50556065$704540200420052006
$51.8(b)$53.7$61.49%101520%200420052006
10%(b)13%20%1234$5200420052006
$1.75(b)$2.32$3.8248%51015$20200420052006
$6.3(b)$8.3$13.647%Net revenue 
from continuing operations
(in billions)
Income from continuing operations (in billions)
Return on equity (net of goodwill)from continuing operations 
Earnings per share 
from continuing operations (fully diluted)
FINANCIAL TRENDS AT A GLANCE
(a) Excludes Corporate segment
(b)Presented on an unaudited pro forma combined
basis that represents how the financial information
of JPMorgan Chase & Co.and Bank One

Corporation may have appeared on a combined
basis had the two companies been merged for the
full year.
Income by line 
of business(a)(in millions)Commercial Banking$1,010Investment Bank
$3,674Retail Financial 
Services
$3,213Card Services$3,206Asset Management$1,409Treasury & Securities Services
$1,090All information shown on a reported basis on continuing operations.
Growth rates shown as compound annual growthrates (CAGRs).
27%24%24%7%8%10%2JPMorgan Chase made very good progress in 2006. We earned $13.6 billion 
from continuing operations, up significantly from the year before; we grew 

our major businesses Œ and the growth was high quality; and we positioned 

ourselves extremely well for 2007 and beyond.
In this letter, I will review and assess our 2006 performance and describe key 
initiatives and issues we are focusing on this year and in the future to make 

our company even better. I hope, after reading this letter, that you will share 

my enthusiasm about the emerging power and enormous potential of the
JPMorgan Chase franchise. First, let™s look at 2006:
I.OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2006: PROGRESS
ANDRENEWEDFOCUS
At JPMorgan 
Chase, we analyze our performance against
a broad spectrum of measures, including growth, quality,

risk management, marketing, collaboration, operations,

controls and compliance. We continue to make significant

progress on all these fronts. Although our absolute per-

formance is not yet where it should be, the pace and level

of improvement are extremely good and make us more

confident than ever about our future.
Starting with ﬁfinancial performance,ﬂ we believe there
are six key aspects of our overall 2006 performance that

illustrate the progress we have made.  
Strengthened financial performance  Our earnings from continuing operations for the year

were 
$13.6 billion, up from 
$8.3 billionin 2005.Return on equity (excluding goodwill) was 20% versus

13%. Revenue growth Œ almost all organic Œ was 14%.

These results, produced with the support of a still-favor-

able credit environment, are good, but not excellent.

And in some cases, we still trail our major competitors. 
While we™re not yet top-tier in financial performance, we
feel particularly good about a number of major issues. 

We essentially completed a huge, complex merger while

staying focused on business and pursuing growth; we

dramatically cut expenses and waste; and we increased

investment spending. Integration risk Œ the potential to

suffer major setbacks because of merger-related issues Œ

is always a big challenge and source of concern. But

superb execution throughout 2005 and 2006 has

enabled us to put that risk mostly behind us.Increased management discipline and collaboration Ultimately, we will succeed or fail based upon the talent,

dedication and diligence of our management team and
the people who work with them. On this measure, you,

our shareholders, should be extremely pleased. Your

management team regularly reviews all aspects of our

business in an open and honest way, assessing our

strengths and weaknesses, and our opportunities and

risks. The level of collaboration among business units is

higher than ever and still getting better. Our top man-

agers work well together, respect each other and take

pride in each other™s successes. As I have stressed in prior

shareholder letters, getting people to work together

across all business units is critical to our success.
DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDER,3Here are some examples of what we can achieve by
working well together. In all of these cases, the manage-

ment team came together Œ to review facts and critically

analyze and reanalyze issues Œ in order to find the right

answers for our clients and our company. We developed

and executed a game plan without the destructive poli-

tics, silly game-playing and selfish arguments about rev-

enue-sharing that can destroy healthy collaboration and

undermine progress.
Establishing the Corporate Bank
Previously, our investment bankers played the lead role

in managing our firm™s relationships with large clients,

even when a client might require non-investment-bank-

ing products and services, such as cash management,

custody, asset management, certain credit and derivatives

products, and others. The product salespeople outside

our Investment Bank operated somewhat independently

from the investment bankers. As a result, we were not

managing our relationships with many of our largest

clients in an integrated and coordinated way. Too many

people were selling their own products without feeling

accountable for JPMorgan Chase™s overall relationship

with the client.Now, we have addressed this issue with dedicated 
corporate bankers who cover the treasurer™s offices of our

largest, longest-standing and most important clients.

These corporate bankers, in partnership with our invest-

ment bankers, are focused on developing our entire rela-

tionship with our clients Œ orchestrating the coverage

effort with regular account planning, client reviews and

coordinated calling. This effort ultimately should add

hundreds of millions of dollars to revenue and create

happier clients.Building the mortgage business Œ in Home Lending and
the Investment Bank  
Home Lending is one of the largest originators and ser-
vicers of mortgages in the United States. Separately, our

Investment Bank has been working hard to build out its

mortgage capabilities as the mortgage business overall
has been undergoing fundamental change, i.e., mort-
gages are increasingly being packaged and sold to institu-

tional investors rather than being held by the company

that originates them.Historically, our two businesses, Home Lending and 
the Investment Bank, barely worked together. In 2004,

almost no Home Lending mortgages were sold through

our Investment Bank. This past year, however, our

Investment Bank sold 95% of the non-agency mortgages

(approximately $25 billion worth) originated by Home

Lending. As a result, Home Lending materially increased

its product breadth and volume because it could distrib-

ute and price more competitively. This arrangement

obviously helped our sales efforts, and the Investment

Bank was able to build a better business with a clear,

competitive advantage. In 2006, our Investment Bank

moved up several places in the league-table rankings for

mortgages. (Importantly, Home Lending maintained its

high underwriting standards; more on this later.) We

believe that we now have the opportunity to become one

of America™s best mortgage companies.
Growing credit card sales through retail branches 
In 2006, we opened more than one million credit card

accounts through our retail branches, up 74% over

2005. Retail and Card Services teams drove this progress

by working together and analyzing every facet of the

business, including product design, marketing, credit

reporting, systems and staffing. It started slowly, but as

we™ve learned together and innovated, we™ve been able to

add increasingly more profitable new accounts. We have

the ability to provide Œ almost instantaneously Œ preap-

proved credit to customers while they are opening other

banking accounts with us. And, while respecting cus-

tomer privacy, we now can offer better pricing because

we can underwrite using both credit card and retail 

customer information. Over time, this competitive

advantage will enable us to add more value and produce

better results for customers and for JPMorgan Chase.
4Approaching Asia holistically
Our Operating Committee members traveled to Asia
late last year and reviewed how we were doing, country-

by-country. The reviews spanned all lines of business.

This process shed new light on our businesses, sharpened

our focus on ways we could work together to improve

performance and strengthened our resolve to execute

aggressively. This year, the business plans in each country

are not only appropriately more ambitious, but also 

better coordinated and fully supported by the rest of the

company. As this effort is replicated in other parts of the

world, we are confident it will strengthen our operations

and opportunities.
Working better together
There are plenty of other examples where good collabora-

tion has made us better. Our Commercial Banking clients

last year generated over $700 million of investment bank-

ing revenue, up 30% from 2005. The merger made this

possible by bringing top-tier Investment Bank products 

to an extensive Commercial Banking customer base. In

addition, our Treasury & Securities Services group does a

significant amount of business with our Commercial

Banking client base. Our Asset Management group calls

on Commercial Banking and Investment Bank customers,

and works with investment bankers to identify clients who

can benefit from our private banking services. Clients

across all of our businesses use our branches. We can use

this kind of disciplined and collaborative approach across

our businesses to continue to build on the distinctive

strength of our extensive capabilities and relationships. 
Achieved quality growth,driving future growth
It™s easy to grow short-term earnings: just stop invest-

ing in your company™s future and compromise your 

standards on accepting new clients and business. 

We won™t do that.
Virtually all of our businesses achieved real, healthy
growth. You can see this described more fully in the

pages ahead, so I™ll just reflect on a few key items.
Our goal is to accomplish real, sustainable growth, but
not growth at any cost. In the financial services world, 

it is easy to stretch for growth by reducing underwriting

standards or taking on increasingly higher levels of risk.

But such an approach is foolish longer term. For exam-

ple, last year we declined to underwrite negative amorti-

zation mortgage loans and option adjustable-rate mort-

gages. That may have hurt our 2006 earnings a bit, but

we believe it was the right decision for the company.
We™re growing our earnings, but not at the expense of
smart, longer-term investments. We continue to invest

in the areas that drive future growth, such as 125 new

retail branches last year, 900 additional salespeople in

branches, 65 new private bankers to serve our ultra-

high-net-worth clients and stronger trading businesses

in mortgages, energy and other commodities.
Where it made sense, we went outside our company
and acquired great assets and businesses, such as the

swap of our Corporate Trust business for 339 Bank of

New York retail branches and the bank™s commercial

banking business. We also did smaller deals to supple-

ment our student loan, hedge fund processing, asset

management, trading and credit card businesses. 
These investments are not confined to the front office.
We™ve invested hundreds of millions of dollars in 

new and improved systems, which I will discuss next.

While there™s a short-term cost for these investments,

there™s a long-term benefit of increased efficiency and

improved quality.
Materially improved infrastructure and cost structure  We continued a massive investment plan in our systems

and operating infrastructure while simultaneously 

reducing expenses.
We completed major consolidations and mergers of
our platforms: retail (deposit and teller), wholesale 

loan and Internet.
5We have built or are building six new data centers, 
and are upgrading and consolidating the more than 

20 centers that we had three years ago. Through this

effort, we™re significantly enhancing our data networks

storage and information technology risk capabilities. Virtually all of our businesses improved their margins
while investing for the future. The single-most salient

cost reduction came in our Corporate line. You may

recall that in 2004 we said we would maintain at

Corporate all of what we deemed to be ﬁinefficient

costs,ﬂ i.e., costs borne by the businesses without

receiving commensurate benefits and costs that were

dramatically higher than they should have been.

Examples included vacant real estate, outdated data

centers, information technology costs that were some-

times two to three times what they should have been,

or staff support costs that were simply too high. 
We moved these costs to Corporate so we could: 
a) see what the businesses were really earning; b) bring

into sharp relief these Corporate expenses and put

pressure on ourselves to reduce them; and c) hold the

businesses accountable for clearly defined costs that
they could control.
Well, it worked. ﬁUnallocated Corporate Overheadﬂ
was $2.4 billion in 2005, was $750 million in 2006
and is expected to be $200 million to $400 million 
in 2007.Improved risk managementTo be a great company, we must excel at risk manage-

ment across all of our businesses Œ consumer, commer-

cial and wholesale. We understand that some risks, or

correlations of risks, are often unknowable, or when

knowable, unpredictable as to timing. Later, I will talk

about some of these risks we face going forward, but

here I will simply review 2006. We think we did a fairly
good job overall, though there are some areas Œ especial-
ly related to mortgage servicing rights Œ where we are

working to do significantly better.
Both consumer and wholesale credit performed well.
More important, we stuck to certain disciplines that

now are serving us well. We made judgment calls that

reduced revenue and often appeared very conservative.

And where we chose to underwrite subprime mort-

gages, we adhered to strict underwriting standards. 

We sold almost all of our 2006 subprime mortgage

originations, but retained our capacity to hold such

mortgages when we believe that it is more financially

prudent to do so. 
Our Private Equity investments are now about 
$6 billion, a very comfortable 9% of tangible equity,

down from more than 20% in 2003. We think our

teams in this business are doing an outstanding job

and believe we have many good opportunities to 

grow our Private Equity business.
We successfully managed the interest-rate cycle to 
minimize its impact on results. We took action based

upon constant analysis and back-testing of interest-rate

moves in each and every product. More important, we

have tried (and continue to try) to balance our expo-

sures so that extreme rate moves (which didn™t happen

in 2006) don™t hurt us significantly. So while flat or

slightly inverted yield curves may squeeze margins for

us (as they do for our competitors), we are not that

concerned about it. Our big concern is to protect our

company from major rate changes.
We materially improved the quality, consistency and
level of our trading results Œ a major focus in 2006.

And we specifically mean results versus trading volatili-

ty. We want to earn a better average return on capital 

with growing revenue. We will accept more volatility,

but we must be paid for the risk we™re taking through

increased revenue. In 2006 we did a bit of both.

Volatility was down while trading revenue was up 

substantially, by almost $3 billion.
6Our Investment Bank management team accomplished
this improved risk management by: a) successfully 

building out new trading capabilities, such as mortgage 

and energy, which helped diversify trading risk; 

b) regular reporting and reviews, particularly of large

risk positions; c) increasing focus and accountability on 

specific trading risk; and d) more actively managing

overall exposures.
We clearly can do better on Mortgage Servicing Rights
(MSRs) than we did in 2006. MSRs are the present

value of net revenue estimated to be received for servic-

ing mortgages, i.e., billing and collecting. We service

over $525 billion of mortgages, and our MSR is 

valued on our balance sheet at about $7
.5 billion. It is
a volatile, assumption-based asset that can swing in 

value from quarter to quarter, even when fully hedged. 
As we previously reported, our MSR asset and related
hedges posted losses of almost $400 million in 2006,
which is unacceptable. As a result, we™ve spent a lot of

time improving our models to make them far more

sophisticated and drilling down to examine repayment

issues and other factors Œ state-by-state and product-

by-product. We™ve worked closely with our Investment

Bank to incorporate the best from all the models.
It is essential we get this right, and we™ve made good
progress. We think we™re about 80% there. How we

value and manage this asset will be either a competitive

strength or weakness. Our degree of success is a key

economic variable that can help us originate and 

distribute loans more inexpensively. Companies that

manage MSRs incorrectly will give back a lot of 

previously booked profits. But companies that get it

right Œ and we intend to be one of them Œ will have 

a huge competitive advantage in an extremely price-

competitive business. 
Picked up the pace
All in all, we feel that we™ve made about as much progress

as we could have in 2006. As we move toward our final

major merger-related integration Œ the conversion of our

New York wholesale platform later this year Œ we are

declaring the merger of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One

to be essentially complete. So we are Œ in the best sense of

the phrase Œ back to business as usual. And that is where

you want us to be.
Back to business as usual means we are moving beyond
working on major, one-off integration projects, and we are

looking more and more to the future. We™ll continue to

focus on all the basics, like people and systems and com-
pliance and audit, as well as waste-cutting and bureaucra-

cy-busting. But we can also look clearly to the future and

focus on initiatives that will set us apart by accelerating

growth and helping us achieve excellent financial results.

Our confidence is strong in our ability to do this because

the teams that have already accomplished so much are

simply updating their mission.We are striving for sustained financial performance,
including revenue growth, better margins and returns 

on capital that compare favorably with the best of 

our competitors.Finally, back to business as usual means that while we are
running our businesses better and generating good organic

growth, we are also receptive to the mergers and acquisi-

tions that make sense for shareholders. To be viable, these

opportunities must clear three important hurdles: the

price must be right, the business logic must be compelling
and our ability to execute must be strong. It is on this 

last point that many deals fail, and it is on this last point
that we now have confidence, earned by what we have

already accomplished.
The ability to execute a merger is a key strength that we do
not want to squander on a bad transaction. We do not

intend to do anything that is not in our shareholders™

interest. We are patient, our internal opportunities abound

and our prospects are good without any acquisitions.
7II.LOOKING AHEAD: KEY INITIATIVES 
AND ISSUESThere are six important initiatives or issues we are tack-
ling to help us become what we truly want to be Œ a

consistently high-performing, highly respected financial

services company.
Improving quality and serviceNow that our merger work and consolidations are 

mainly done, we are turning more attention to improv-

ing quality and service Œ from front to back. We mean

this in an all-encompassing way, whether it™s a customer™s

experience with a teller, straight-through processing,

improved operations, call center performance, better

automated cross-selling or dozens of other areas. This

applies to anything that affects the customer Œ and 
anything that makes it easier or better for our people
servicing the customer. It includes cutting down on

errors, which cost our company money, slow us down

and annoy the customer.
The outcome, we are convinced, will be happier cus-
tomers and lower attrition, more cross-selling and lower

costs associated with more automation and fewer prob-

lems. The good news is that we have the focus, the will

and the people to do this. They™re the same ones who

already have delivered so much throughout our merger

work and consolidations. 
Raising productivity While over the past few years we have devoted signifi-

cant attention to waste-cutting and cost reduction, we

are now focusing more broadly on productivity overall.

An example would be how we assess the effectiveness of

a sales force. A sales force might have the right number

of salespeople and the right products, but productivity

could still be enhanced in multiple ways: more sales 
per salesperson; more sales from new products or old
products; same sales but higher profitability per sale; or

same sales and same profits, but deeper relationships

with customers. To achieve consistently high margins and returns relative
to the competition, we need to achieve high levels of

productivity everywhere and every step of the way Œ 

at every business unit, in every branch, with every 

sales force, in all of our systems programming units 

and across all our product marketing. Any company, 

including ours, can lose focus or be sloppy in managing 
productivity at these levels. Here are a few examples 

of how we have improved productivity:
Investment Bank: 
We determined that our bankers in
the United States were covering too many clients, and

it is expensive simply to cover a client. While revenue

per banker was adequate, our product penetration per

client was too low. So we reduced the number of

clients each banker covers, and the results should be

very positive: the client should end up getting more

attention, the banker should do more business with the

client, and our revenue should go up. Since we already

had a complete product set for bankers to sell, and

because there are increasingly more companies that

need our services, it was a no-brainer to add bankers. 
The Investment Bank this year is also intensifying 
its focus on reducing middle-office and back-office 

support costs. Our non-compensation expenses are too

high, and as the Investment Bank has developed better

financial management tools, we™re better equipped to

attack these excessive support costs. We believe that

these excess costs could be as much as $500 million.
Credit card marketing: 
Last year we did a good job
reducing our costs of attracting, opening and servicing

new credit card accounts. But to maximize opportuni-

ties, we need to become better at matching products to

customers; differentiating between the profitability of
8new branch-generated accounts versus those generated
across other channels, such as the Internet; determin-

ing what other business we should be doing with the

new card holder; and ensuring that our current card

holders have the right products and rewards programs.

We already have made good strides: Cards with

rewards programs are now 53% of our card outstand-

ings, up from 32% in 2003. And accounts generated

from direct-mail solicitations, which often come with

low introductory rates (and higher attrition rates), are

down to 32% from 55% in 2003. We have much

more work to do to continue this progress.
Commercial Banking sales force management: 
Now
Commercial Banking rigorously tracks results 

and profitability by banker and by client. We have 

our bankers work with their clients to ensure that all

clients are profitable to the firm and that all clients

benefit from their relationship with the firm.
New products in Commercial Banking:
This past year
Commercial Banking continued to expand its product

offering. It added subordinated debt, mezzanine financ-

ing and even equity investing. We already had the clients.

They just were going elsewhere for these products.
Private Bank: 
We™re making it easier for qualified indi-
viduals to do business with us, beginning with how

they open new Private Bank accounts. In the past, they

had to review at least six different documents and sign

multiple times just to start working with us. Now, a

new customer usually fills out only a one-page form

and signs it only once. Everyone™s happier, and we save

some trees.  
Increasing marketing creativity and focus
Our company needs to become better at marketing. 

And by marketing we don™t mean more television ads or

direct mail solicitations. We mean taking a sophisticated

approach to identifying a group of customers, figuring

out what they need and then delivering it to them better

than anyone else. The opportunities are significant. We

have multiple efforts under way, and we want to give

you a few examples of them.
Develop a better offering for affluent clients
We believe we do a very good job serving our ultra-

high-net-worth clients Œ those with more than $25 

million of investable assets. But we can do a lot more 

for the hundreds of thousands of affluent households

that fall below that ultra-high threshold.
Whether through our retail branches, our card business
or our Private Client Services unit, we interact with tens

of thousands of very wealthy individuals every day. But

in many cases, we haven™t identified them as affluent, or

we haven™t focused on providing them with the right set

of products that is tailored to meet their unique needs.

In 2007, we intend to do a comprehensive analysis of

this affluent market, and then develop and begin to exe-

cute a game plan. The likely result will be better identifi-

cation of affluent clients, solutions and rewards pro-

grams that cut across multiple products, more tailored

products, and specialized marketing and servicing.
Use customer knowledge to refine products, upgrade service 
Our customers trust us and give us a lot of information

so we can know them better. While respecting a cus-

tomer™s privacy, we can use this information to make

better-informed decisions about what to offer customers
and how to evaluate them.
We™ve already mentioned how we can instantaneously
offer an approved credit card to customers while they are

opening a checking account. We can also underwrite the
9credit better, i.e., offer more competitive pricing based
upon our proprietary knowledge of the customer. We™re

working on many other similar initiatives where our

knowledge of the customer pre-emptively positions us in

businesses such as home equity, mortgage, auto, credit

card, retail branches and small business.
Coordinate outreach to specific groups
There are many different subsets of customers we serve

who would appreciate and benefit from a coordinated

approach to their specific needs.
One clear example involves universities. Surprisingly, 
we had not coordinated our outreach to this lucrative

market. Retail opened student checking accounts;

Education Finance made student loans; Card Services

issued credit cards to students and alumni; Commercial

Banking financed schools and serviced cash management

needs; and our Asset Management group managed univer-

sity funds. We™re fixing this by working on a synchronized

effort where a specialized sales team can offer a fully coor-

dinated package more effectively and more efficiently.
Expanding to serve consumers outside the United StatesInternational consumer expansion is not without risk. 

So one of our first objectives has been to add senior

individuals to our talent pool who are knowledgeable

and experienced in the international consumer area. In

addition, we are now analyzing and developing country-

specific strategies so that we can focus our efforts on the

most important opportunities. We are fortunate to have

developed strong relationships and partnerships over the

years, so we have people and companies we trust and can

rely upon for advice and access to investment opportuni-

ties around the world. 
There are some essential principles supporting this effort
that we want our shareholders to understand.
Because restrictions on acquisitions Œ and other laws
and regulations Œ differ by country, our approach must

differ by country. In some areas, we may acquire 

partial interests or controlling stakes in companies,

while in others we may start de novo.
We will not stretch excessively to make investments. 
We believe that in many parts of the world, it is not

necessary to feel desperate, as if the opportunities will

exist only for a fleeting moment. We believe that as

JPMorgan Chase grows and strengthens, its opportuni-

ties will increase. We also believe that in five to 10 years,

as some countries develop and change, new and exciting

opportunities will emerge. For example, to the extent

that we would consider a merger or acquisition in

Europe, there are likely to be many more pan-European

banks to choose from in the future. In China or India,

we might be allowed to buy a controlling interest in a

bank. The set of options available to my successor will

be dramatically different from and possibly superior 

to the current set of options. With that in mind, the

best thing I can do for her or him is pass on a strong

JPMorgan Chase.
Managing critical risks The first half of this letter mentions that we were fairly

pleased with how we managed risk in 2006. But manag-

ing risk is a constant challenge.We never stop worrying

about it. Before discussing some specific risk issues, we

believe you should be able to take some comfort from

these key facts: Our profit margins have increased substantially, creat-
ing our best cushion for risk.Our balance sheet is strong and getting stronger. 
Tier I Capital at the end of 2006 was 8
.7%, and even
with stock buybacks, it should stay strong because of

our improving capital generation.
Our loan loss reserves are strong, at 1
.7% for both consumer and wholesale at the end of 2006. 10Here are some specific risk issues:
Challenges in the credit world   
We continuously analyze and measure our risk. In fact,
during budget planning, we ask our management teams

to prepare Œ on all levels Œ for difficult operating envi-

ronments. While the risk comes in many forms, such as

recession, market turmoil and geopolitical turbulence,

one of our largest risks is still the credit cycle. Credit

losses, both consumer and wholesale, have been extreme-

ly low, perhaps among the best we™ll see in our lifetimes.

We must be prepared for a return to the norm in the

credit cycle. 
The chart below shows a rough estimate of what could
happen to credit costs over the business cycle Œ provided

we do a good and disciplined job underwriting credit. 
In a tougher credit environment, credit losses could rise
significantly, by as much as $5 billion over time, which

may require increases in loan loss reserves. Investment

Bank revenue could drop, and the yield curve could

sharply invert. This could have a significant negative

effect on JPMorgan Chase™s earnings. That said, these

events generally do not occur simultaneously, and there

would be normal mitigating factors for our earnings
(e.g., compensation pools likely would go down, some

customer fees and spreads would probably go up, and

funding costs could decrease).
It™s important to share these numbers with you, not to
worry you, but to be as transparent as possible about the

potential impact of these negative scenarios and to let you

know how we are preparing for them. We do not know

exactly what will occur or when, but we do know that bad

things happen. There is no question that our company™s

earnings could go down substantially. But if we are pre-

pared, we can both minimize the damage to our company

and capitalize on opportunities in the marketplace.
Subprime mortgages: the good, the bad and possibly 
the uglyTHEGOOD
We did a lot of things right:
We did not originate option ARMs or other negative
amortization loans.
We applied the same underwriting standards to all 
of our subprime loans, whether originated by us or 

purchased from third parties.
We sold substantially all of our 2006 subprime origina-
tions. (We underwrite all of our subprime loans to be

held; in fact, we prefer to hold and service these mort-

gages, but prices at the time of sale were too good to

pass up.)
We were very careful in certain parts of the United
States and were especially careful to seek accurate 

property appraisals.
Annual potential net charge-off rates by business
ACTUALESTIMATED
2006THROUGH CYCLE
Investment Bank(0.05%)1.00%
Commercial Banking0.05%0.50%
Card Services3.33%5.00%
Retail Financial Services
Home Equity0.18%0.30%
Home Lending0.12%0.42%
Prime Mortgage0.04%0.08%
Subprime Mortgage0.31%1.00%
Auto Finance
0.56%0.75%
Business Banking0.69%1.30%
11THEBAD
Default rates were still higher than we had predicted.
In hindsight, when underwriting subprime, we could
have been even more conservative and less sensitive to

market and competitor practices. We™ve now materially

tightened certain underwriting standards on subprime

mortgages.
We don™t expect that losses on our subprime loans
would go up by more than about $150 million Œ not

so bad, but we prefer it weren™t so.
POSSIBLYTHEUGLY
We do not yet know the ultimate impact of recent indus-

try excesses and mismanagement in the subprime market.

Bad underwriting practices probably extended into many

mortgage categories. As government officials investigate

the market and losses mount, the industry is tightening

underwriting standards by reducing loan-to-value ratios

and using more conservative property values. There will

be more due diligence on incomes and credit quality.

More rigid standards increase foreclosures and make it

more difficult to buy homes. This will lead to a lower

number of sales and a reduction in home values. 
The good news is this is happening in a healthy job envi-
ronment, which is still the most important determinant of

good consumer credit. The subprime business is a great

example of what happens when something good (the abil-
ity to help a lot more people buy homes) is taken to

excess. Even so, we still believe that subprime mortgages

could be a very good business, and that when it all sorts

out, we will be well-positioned.
Enhancing our corporate social responsibility standardsLast year we wrote to you about how our company is a

caring and generous institution. We try to help all of the

communities in which we operate. We do this in multi-

ple ways, ranging from charitable giving and diversity
initiatives to the promotion of economic opportunity
and development. This year, we are working to make

these efforts more meaningful and to become more

socially responsible in a variety of ways, including several

described below:
We strive to be fair and ethical in our business practices
A strong set of principles guides our actions and
informs our decisions. We demand that our executives

behave in accordance with these principles. 
We are dedicated to high-quality, responsibly marketed
products and services.
We continually innovate and work to improve the
quality of life for our clients and communities.We are helping to protect the environment
Last year, we took a number of important steps in this

critical area:
We raised $1
.5 billion of equity for the wind power
market, with approximately $650 million allocated to

our own portfolio. Since its inception in 2003, our

renewable energy portfolio has invested in 26 wind

farms, now totaling approximately $1 billion. 
We published a series of corporate research reports
concerning business and environmental linkages,

including legal and regulatory risks related to climate

change, and issues and opportunities in biofuels and

the ethanol market.
We trained more than 100 bankers globally to better
implement our environmental and social risk policy.
We completed our U.S. greenhouse gas emissions 
baseline, increased our investments in energy-efficient

projects, and purchased renewable energy credits

(green energy).
We began building several green bank branches and 
are seeking Leadership in Energy and Environmental

Design certification for the renovation of our world

headquarters.
12We plan to continue the momentum with the following
steps: We are strengthening our team to better manage the
environmental and social risks within our deal flow.
We are increasing our investments in energy-efficient
projects as part of our commitment to reduce our

greenhouse gas emissions.
We are strengthening our efforts to offer clients prod-
ucts and services that help them reduce their green-

house gas emissions.We are continuing to advance the public policy debate
on the environmental effectiveness and economic 

efficiency of greenhouse gas emission reductions.
We are deepening our community involvement
We intend to work more closely with government 
officials, regulators, communities and responsible 

third parties to improve both public policy and 

our company.
Our philanthropic investment program is strategically
focused on enhancing life in the communities we serve.

In 2006, JPMorgan Chase invested more than $110

million in nearly 500 cities across 33 nations. In addi-

tion, we reinvigorated our strategic focus toward fund-

ing organizations and programs that are addressing the

most pressing needs in our communities. 
In 2007, the JPMorgan Chase Foundation is taking 
a disciplined approach to helping our customers,

employees, shareholders and neighbors in three critical

need areas we call Live, Learn, and Thrive. In ﬁLive,ﬂ 

we focus on basic needs, such as housing, job training,

financial literacy and social inclusion. The area we call

ﬁLearnﬂ focuses on helping young people succeed in the

education process, from birth through higher education,

especially in impoverished areas. To help our communi-

ties ﬁThrive,ﬂ we support vital environmental, arts and 
cultural institutions and initiatives. This year, we are
launching our ﬁCommunity Renaissance Initiativeﬂ in

eight key U.S. markets, dedicating a large percentage of

our philanthropic funding, energy and expertise to sub-

stantially strengthen high-need neighborhoods.
III. A FEW CLOSING COMMENTSCorporate governance:Board of Directors
I believe your Board is functioning extremely well. Its

members are totally engaged in and dedicated to set-

ting Œ and meeting Œ the highest standards of gover-

nance. Discussions about our people, our strategies,

our opportunities, our priorities and our obligations

are open and substantive. The quality and productivity

of these conversations should be even better as we

reduce the size of the Board to about 12 members.
Compensation and ownershipWhile our Proxy Statement describes our philosophy in

detail, I™d like to note here the key underpinnings of our

compensation system: a) we believe a substantial portion

of compensation should be tied to performance
, particu-
larly for senior employees; b) an ownership stake in the

firm best aligns our employees™ and shareholders™ interests
; c) compensation should bemarket-based
; and d) we strive
for long-term orientation
both in the way we assess 
performance and in the way we structure compensation.
In addition, it™s important to note some specifics:

Your senior executive team received 50% of their
incentive compensation in restricted stock units that

vest over time.
Your senior management team must keep 75% of all
the stock they acquire from restricted stock units and

option exercises until they leave the firm. I have held

all of my stock compensation and plan to continue 
doing so.
13We have minimized personal
perquisites, and have been particu-

larly vigilant when it comes to
club dues, car allowances and

financial planning services.
We believe pay should relate to
building a company with sus-
tained good performance. There 

is no magic in a single quarter or

year, and we try to recognize when

a friendly market, rather than 

excellent performance, lifts results. 
We provide senior managers limited pension and
deferred-compensation programs. Also, we do not

match the 401(k) plan contributions of our highest-
paid employees, while we provide that benefit for 

most other U.S. employees. 
To recognize their hard work and to make them 
owners of the company, we made a special contri-

bution worth $400 in stock to the 401(k) accounts 

of eligible lower-paid employees (and a compa-

rable cash grant to similar employees outside the 

United States). This grant created about 12,100 new

401(k) participants and about 17,400 new JPMorgan

Chase shareholders. I hope they will become regular

401(k) contributors and long-term investors. In all,

more than 115,000 of our colleagues are now

JPMorgan Chase shareholders.
A fond farewell to our dedicated directors and Bill HarrisonI would like to thank retiring Board
members John Biggs, Jack Kessler 

and Richard Manoogian for their

long and distinguished service to 

our company.
And finally, I would like to thank Bill
Harrison, my friend and partner, who

retired as Chairman last year. We Œ 
and I Œ were blessed to have such a great, thoughtful leader.  

To Bill and his many great predecessors, we owe thanks for

bequeathing to us this extraordinary opportunity.
One last,optimistic thought
We have an outstanding strategic position, a great brand,

strong character, fantastic employees and a remarkable

future. I am privileged to lead this company. I don™t

think we know yet how good we can be.
James Dimon
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
March 12, 2007
14 PPH
HO
OT
TO
O 
 T
TO
OC
CO
OM
ME
EMAJOR 2006 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
ŁRecord annual revenue,with record performance in IB fees,Fixed Income and Equity Markets.
Reduced trading volatility through disciplined management and increased diversification,while 
achieving a record level of markets-related revenue.
Strong progress on growth initiatives:
Œ Energy and Securitized Products platforms largely built out in the U.S;

Œ Added over 100 distributors,including Fidelity in the United States,for our Retail Structured 
Products business;and,
Œ Strong Emerging Markets performance locally in the Europe,Middle East & Africa region;and in 
Latin America.Continued leverage of the firmwide platform through cross-selling products with Home Lending,
Commercial Banking,Asset Management and Treasury & Securities Services.
Strong expense discipline,with noncompensation expense up 4%,while revenue grew 25%.
JPMorgan is one of the world™s 
leading investment banks,with 

deep client relationships and broad

product capabilities.Our clients are

corporations,financial institutions,

governments and institutional
investors.
We offer our clients a full range of
investment banking products and

services in all major capital markets,

including advising on corporate

strategy and structure,capital raising

in equity and debt markets,sophisti-

cated risk management,market-

making in cash securities and 

derivative instruments,and research.

We have global leadership positions

in all our key products,and our full

platform enables us to develop some
of the most complete and innovative

financial solutions in the industry.

We also commit the firm™s own 

capital to proprietary investing and

trading activities.We continue to

strengthen our platform through

organic growth and selective acquisi-

tions,and by developing new prod-

ucts to meet the evolving needs 
of our clients.
2007 AND BEYOND
Continue build-out of Energy and Securitized Products platforms,particularly in Europe and Asia.
Capitalize on market opportunity in Pension Advisory and Risk Management.
Expand manufacturing and distribution of Structured Products to retail clients.
Build emerging markets presence through organic growth and through the pursuit of joint ventures 
and partnerships in select countries,particularly in Asia.
Selectively expand principal investing capabilities.
Continue to enhance discipline around risk,capital allocation and expenses.
Fund investments in revenue growth through continued productivity savings.
Attract,develop and retain the best talent in the industry.
2006 HIGHLIGHTS#1 in Investment Banking fees
(a).#2 in Global Debt,Equity and Equity-related
(b).#1 in both global loan syndications and global high yield bonds for the second year in a row
(b).#1 provider of financial products to sponsor clients
(a).IFR's ﬁGlobal Interest Rate and Commodities Derivatives House of the Year.ﬂ
Risk™s ﬁEnergy Derivatives House of the Year.ﬂ
Named in BusinessWeek™s Top 10 ﬁBest Places to Launch Your Career.ﬂ
(In millions,except ratios)
20062005Total net revenue
$18,277$14,613Net income3,6743,673Return on equity18%18%INVESTMENT BANK(a)Dealogic 
(b)Thomson Financial
15PPH
HO
OT
TO
O 
 T
TO
OC
CO
OM
ME
E(In millions,except ratios)
20062005Total net revenue
$14,825$14,830Net income3,2133,427Return on equity22%26%RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES
Retail Financial Services helps meetthe financial needs of consumers 

and businesses.We provide conven-

ient consumer banking through 

the nation™s fourth-largest branch 

network and third-largest ATM 

network.We are a top-five mortgage

originator and servicer,the second-

largest home equity originator,the

largest noncaptive originator of auto-

mobile loans and one of the largest

student loan originators.
We serve customers through more
than 3,000 bank branches,8,500 

ATMs and 270 mortgage offices;

and through relationships with more

than 15,000 auto dealerships and

4,300 schools and universities.

More than 11,000 branch salespeople

assist customers with checking and

savings accounts;mortgage,home

equity and business loans;invest-

ments;and insurance across our 

17-state footprint from New York 

to Arizona.More than 1,200 addition-

al mortgage officers provide home

loans throughout the country.
MAJOR 2006 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Expanded our leadership position in the highly attractive New York metropolitan area through the
acquisition of The Bank of New York™s consumer banking business,which added $12 billion in deposits.
Purchased and integrated Collegiate Funding Services to expand the education lending business.
Completed technology conversion in the New York Tri-state area;now serving all Chase-branded
branches on the same state-of-the-art platform.Completed the Chase rebranding of remaining Bank One branches and ATMs.
Expanded originations of alternative mortgage products Œ leveraging distribution capabilities in the
Investment Bank Œ to serve changing consumer needs,while maintaining disciplined underwriting practices.
2007 AND BEYOND
Improve customer cross-selling through continued expansion of the sales force and achieve double-digitgrowth in branch sales of mortgages,investments and credit cards.
Invest in 125 to 150 additional branch locations annually,using disciplined and analytical approach 

to select markets and sites within markets.
Convert The Bank of New York branches to the Chase technology platform in first half of 2007,

refurbish those branches,and upgrade the sales process and customer experience.
Continue to respond to changing residential lending environment;upgrade and consolidate mortgage

origination and servicing technology by year-end 2008 to improve customer experience and increase

operating efficiencies.
2006 HIGHLIGHTSIncreased branch sales force 9%;and increased branch sales production,including credit
cards 74% and investments 34%.
Increased checking accounts 14%,to 10 million,and deposits 12%,to $204 billion.
Increased Business Banking loan originations 22%,to $5.7 billion.
Increased active online customer base 35%;generated 187 million online transactions,

including bill payment and electronic payment,up 35%.
Added 438 net new branches,including 339 acquired from The Bank of New York;and 

1,194 ATMs,including 400 acquired from The Bank of New York and 500 placed in Walgreens

stores throughout Florida,Colorado and Louisiana.
16 (In millions,except ratios)
20062005Total net revenue
$14,745$15,366Net income3,2061,907Return on equity23%16%With more than 154 million cards 
in circulation and $153 billion in

managed loans,Chase Card Services

is one of the nation™s largest credit

card issuers.Customers used Chase

cards for more than $339 billion

worth of transactions in 2006.
We offer a wide variety of general-
purpose cards to satisfy the needs

of individual consumers,small busi-

nesses and partner organizations,

including cards issued with AARP,

Amazon,Continental Airlines,

Marriott,Southwest Airlines,Sony,

United Airlines,Walt Disney Company

and many other well-known brands
and organizations.We also issue 

private-label cards with Circuit City,

Kohl™s,Sears Canada and BP.
Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC,
a joint venture with JPMorgan Chase

and First Data Corporation,is the

largest processor of MasterCard 

and Visa payments in the world,

handling over 18 billion transactions

in 2006.MAJOR 2006 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Added 15.9 million new Visa,MasterCard and private-label accounts.
Launched innovative Chase Freedom
smprogram,the first card to give cardmembers the choice of
earning either cash or points and changing back without leaving any rewards behind.
Continued to build our private-label business through new partnerships with BP,Kohl™s and 

Pier 1 Imports,Inc.
Increased merchant processing volume to $661 billion,up 17% from 2005.
Expanded judgmental lending and instant-credit decision-making capabilities.
Continued to be market leader in contactless technology,with more than 7 million ﬁblinkﬂ

enabled Chase cards issued.Increased sales on the Sears Canada portfolio and launched our first new Canadian Visa product,

the Chase Marriott Rewards Visa Card.
2007 AND BEYOND
Establish Chase as an iconic brand by continually delivering on our brand promise through our employees,advertising and innovative products and services.
Drive superior long-term growth in profits,customers,managed loans and sales by building customer value

and reducing operating cost per account through investments in marketing and technology initiatives.
Expand the markets we serve to reach a broader base of consumers,including the small-business,

student,Hispanic and private-label segments.
More effectively cross-sell credit card and bank products to the firm™s customers,offering superior 

product sets and customer service.
2006 HIGHLIGHTSSecond-largest MasterCard/Visa credit card issuer in the United States
(a).Largest merchant acquirer in the world through Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC
(a).Fourth-largest private-label credit card issuer in the United States
(a).Increased overall profitability and grew managed loans while investing in activities to attract
new customers and further engage current cardmembers.
The Chase Home Improvement,Borders and BP Visa rewards card programs were included on

list of 10 best cards of 2006 by IndexCreditCards.com.
CARD SERVICES
(a)SEC filings and company reports
17 MAJOR 2006 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Significantly increased cross-selling efforts with 30% growth in gross investment banking revenues and 9% growth in Treasury Services revenues.
Completed both a major loan conversion,which impacted more than 14,000 clients with approximately

$25 billion in loan balances,and several treasury services migrations to target platforms.
Enhanced discipline in and accountability for the sales process through improved monthly metrics
reports,business reviews and coaching.
Added approximately 2,000 banking relationships,$2.3 billion in loans and $1.2 billion in liability 

balances from the acquisition of The Bank of New York™s middle-market business.
Created Chase Capital Corporation,which provides our clients with additional financing alternatives

including mezzanine and second-lien loans as well as preferred equity.
Opened five new offices to expand coverage in Des Moines (IA),Charlotte (NC),Orlando (FL),Denver

(CO) and Princeton (NJ).Commercial Banking serves more
than 30,000 clients,including corpo-

rations,municipalities,financial

institutions and not-for-profit 

entities.These clients generally 

have annual revenues ranging 

from $10 million to $2 billion.

Commercial bankers serve clients

nationally throughout the retail

branch footprint and in offices 

located in other major markets.

We are the #1 commercial bank in

our retail branch footprint.
Commercial Banking offers its
clients industry knowledge,experi-

ence,a dedicated service model,

comprehensive solutions and local

expertise.The firm™s broad platform

positions us to deliver extensive
product capabilities Œ including

lending,treasury services,invest-

ment banking and asset manage-
ment Œ to meet our clients™ U.S.

and international financial needs.
2006 HIGHLIGHTS#1 commercial bank in market penetration in Chase™s retail branch footprint,almost 
double that of the next leading competitor(a).#1 in overall customer satisfaction among large bank providers Œ 93% of clients surveyed 

are highly satisfied with our bankers
(b).#2 asset-based lender in the United States(c).Generated record gross investment banking revenues of $716 million.
(In millions,except ratios)
20062005Total net revenue
$3,800$3,488Net income1,010951Return on equity18%28%2007 AND BEYOND
Increase prospect conversion through accelerated calling efforts and targeted marketing initiatives.
Grow U.S.and international revenue by providing clients with more comprehensive solutions leveraging
our Treasury & Securities Services,Asset Management and Investment Bank platforms.
Continue to improve product and service offerings to clients through additional cash management
tools,technology enhancements and alternative capital solutions.
Outperform peers in credit through active portfolio management and superior underwriting standards,

while effectively using capital and resources.
Strengthen our workforce through key talent development,training and diversity initiatives.
Convert our wholesale New York Tri-state customer base to the target deposit system;complete the

migration of customers acquired in The Bank of New York transaction to the firm™s platforms.
COMMERCIAL BANKING(a) SRBI Footprint Study 2005
(b) Barlow Research Middle Market Banking 2006,
Chase Relationship Audit
TM(c) Loan Pricing Corporation,2006
18 (In millions,except ratios)
20062005Total net revenue
$6,109$5,539Net income1,090863Return on equity48%57%Treasury & Securities Services is 
a global leader in transaction,

investment and information services
that support the needs of institu-
tional clients worldwide.We are

one of the world™s largest cash man-

agement providers and a leading

global custodian,operating through

two divisions:Treasury Services provides cash
management products,trade finance

and logistics solutions,wholesale

card products,and short-term liquid-

ity management capabilities to small

and mid-sized companies,multina-

tional corporations,financial institu-

tions and government entities.
Worldwide Securities Services
stores,values,clears and services

securities and alternative invest-
ments for investors and broker-

dealers;and manages depositary

receipts programs globally.
MAJOR 2006 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Completed the purchase of the middle- and back-office operations of Paloma Partners Management
Company,an investment funds management group,and closed the sale of select corporate trust 

businesses to The Bank of New York.
Achieved all 2006 merger goals,including completion of the largest U.S.dollar clearing conversion in

banking history.
Introduced innovative products for automating healthcare claims reimbursement,for simplifying elec-

tronic payments for large corporations and government agencies,and for international check imaging.
Built out the global investment operations outsourcing platform,securing two key deals and completing

two major client conversions.
Enhanced partnerships with businesses across JPMorgan Chase,increasing the number of Investment

Bank referrals 13% and Business Banking transactions 10%.2006 HIGHLIGHTSIncreased assets under custody 30%,to $13.9 trillion;and liability balances 22%,to $190 billion.
Double-digit growth in Automated Clearing House Originations (up 18%),International
Electronic Funds Transfer volume (up 62%) and U.S.Dollar Clearing volume (up 10%).
#1 in Same Day U.S.Dollar Funds Transfers
(a),Automated Clearing House Originations
(b),CHIPS(c)and Fedwire
(d).Industry awards included Best Overall Bank for Cash Management in North America 

(Global Finance),Securities Services Provider of the Year (The Banker) and #1 Global Liquidity

Capabilities (Euromoney).
2007 AND BEYOND
Complete merger- and efficiency-related platform retirements and client migrations,including conver-
sions to target billing,liquidity,sweep and deposit platforms.
Expand alternative investment services,the global investment operations outsourcing platform,

depositary receipts,liquidity management,foreign exchange and securities lending.
Focus on international growth,particularly in Europe,the Middle East,Latin America,China and India.
Leverage the Investment Bank,Commercial Banking and Asset Management to deliver a broad range of

offerings in meeting client needs.
Achieve market differentiation by delivering client service that is superior to that of our competition.
Focus on productivity and expense control to maximize net income and fund investments in the 

business,including investments in technology and people.
TREASURY&SECURITIESSERVICES
(a)Ernst & Young
(b)NACHA

(c)The Clearing House

(d)Federal Reserve
19 MAJOR 2006 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Continued to deliver strong investment performance.Globally,79% of our long-term mutual fund assets
were ranked in first- or second-quartile funds for the five years ended December 31,2006.
Continued significant growth in our European business.Ranked second for net sales of all retail long-

term mutual funds,with 2006 net sales of $19.7 billion
(b).Achieved record performance with 20% revenue growth and 16% earnings growth.Net assets under management inflows were at a record level of $89 billion.Experienced record growth of net new clients in the Private Bank.
Grew alternative assets under management including hedge funds,real estate,private equity and 

currency,by 35%,to $100 billion.Continued to experience strong investor interest in Highbridge funds

with 97% growth in assets under management during 2006.Acquired CCA Strategies,an employee benefits and compensation consulting firm that will extend our

retirement services capabilities to better respond to the needs of our clients.
With assets under supervision of
$1.3 trillion,Asset Management is 

a global leader in investment and
wealth management.Our clients

include institutions,retail investors

and high-net-worth individuals 
in every major market throughout

the world.We offer global investment man-
agement in equities,fixed income,

real estate,hedge funds,private

equity and liquidity,including 

both money market instruments 

and bank deposits.We also provide

trust and estate and banking 
services to high-net-worth clients,

and retirement services for corpora-

tions and individuals.The majority

of our client assets are in actively

managed portfolios.
2007 AND BEYOND
Deliver strong investment performance through rigorous review of investment strategies and diversifi-cation of investment processes,and by attracting and retaining the best investment talent in the world.
Expand third-party distribution of our investment management products and services,capitalizing on

industry shifts toward open architecture and outsourcing of asset management.
Respond to increasing demand for absolute-return investing by expanding our offering of alternative
products globally and staying at the forefront of that move.
Grow our 401(k) business and IRA rollover retail channels,at both the corporate and participant levels,

as we leverage our connectivity with the rest of the firm.Extend our Private Bank and Private Client Services footprint,gain efficiencies and expand Private

Client Services investment offerings.
2006 HIGHLIGHTSAssets under management reached $1.0 trillion,with a total of $1.3 trillion assets under
supervision.Largest global hedge fund manager with assets under management of $34 billion
(a).JPMorgan Prime Money Market Fund became the first money market fund to reach $100 billion.
Reached $100 billion in retirement assets.
Became one of the largest Sino-foreign fund houses in China within two years of launching 
a joint venture with Shanghai International Trust & Investment Corporation (SITICO).
(In millions,except ratios)
20062005Total net revenue
$6,787$5,664Net income1,4091,216Return on equity40%51%ASSETMANAGEMENT
(a)Absolute Returnmagazine,March 2007 issue,
data as of year-end 2006
(b)Source FERI 
JPMorgan Chase is committed to
building vibrant communities,

preserving our environment and 

promoting an inclusive culture 

that benefits our shareholders,

customers,employees,neighbors

and future generations.Corporate

citizenship is fundamental to our
success as a firm.Our investment in programs that
enable people to live,learn and

thrive helps enhance the quality 
of the communities we serve.We 

contribute our leadership guidance,

expertise and financial resources 

to help strengthen neighborhoods

across the globe.
Inside our firm,we are building 
an inclusive culture in which every-

one has the opportunity to con-
tribute,develop and succeed based

upon their talents and skills.In 

an increasingly global economy,

we view the diverse experiences 

and perspectives of our people as 

a critical asset.MAJOR 2006 ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Invested more than $110 million in the communities we serve by supporting in excess of 2,800 not-for-
profit organizations globally.We carefully select partners that promote economic stability,improve

access to quality education and inspire communities through the celebration of arts and culture.Our

investments span the globe,positively impacting communities in nearly 500 cities across 33 countries.
Achieved significant progress toward our 10-year pledge to invest $800 billion in low- and moderate-

income communities in the U.S.Œ the largest commitment by any bank focused on mortgages,

small-business lending and community development.In 2006,we committed $87 billion,with total

investment to date of $241 billion in the third year of the program.Played a leadership role in the creation of The New York Acquisition Fund,along with 15 lenders and 

in conjunction with six foundations and the City of New York.The Fund is a $230 million initiative to

finance the acquisition of land and buildings to be developed and/or preserved for affordable housing.Led the effort to raise $1.5 billion of equity for the wind power market in 2006,with approximately

$650 million allocated to our own portfolio.The firm's renewable energy portfolio now comprises

approximately $1 billion of equity investments in 26 wind farms since its inception in 2003.Trained more than 100 bankers globally to better implement our environmental and social risk policy as

part of our environmental risk management efforts.
Completed our U.S.greenhouse gas emissions baseline,increased our investments in energy efficiency

projects and purchased renewable energy credits (green energy).
Built upon our commitment to supplier diversity,having spent in 2006 in excess of $500 million with

minority- and women-owned business enterprises Œ expenditures that increased even in light of an
overall decrease in provider spending.2007 AND BEYOND
Focus on increasing the social return,reach and impact of each dollar we invest in the community.
Build and leverage employee volunteerism to improve our overall effectiveness and impact across themany neighborhoods we serve.
Continue seeking out partners that are best positioned to help us deliver our mission of building vibrant
communities that enable its members to live,learn and thrive.
Maintain momentum toward our 10-year,$800 billion commitment to invest in communities across the U.S.
Deepen our commitment to environmental awareness and continue developing financial products that

will help our clients reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
Continue our leadership in the area of supplier diversity while expanding our efforts to do business
with other disadvantaged groups.
Continue developing at all levels a global pool of diverse talent to help us serve the unique and diverse
needs of our customer base.
20CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
21JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
21TABLE OF CONTENTS
Financial:22Five-year summary of consolidated financial highlights
22Five-year stock performance
Management™s discussion and analysis:
23Introduction

25Executive overview

28Consolidated results of operations

32Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s
use of non-GAAP financial measures34Business segment results

55Balance sheet analysis

57Capital management

59 OffŒbalance sheet arrangements and 
contractual cash obligations
61Risk management

62 Liquidity risk management

64Credit risk management

77Market risk management

81Private equity risk management

81Operational risk management

82Reputation and fiduciary risk management

83Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm

85Accounting and reporting developments

87Nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts 
at fair value
Audited financial statements:
88Management™s report on internal control 
over financial reporting 89Report of independent registered public accounting firm

90Consolidated financial statements

94Notes to consolidated financial statements
Supplementary information:143Selected quarterly financial data

144Selected annual financial data

145Glossary of terms

147Forward-looking statements
22JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
(unaudited)(in millions,except per share,headcount and ratio data)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only
As of or for the year ended December 31,200620052004
(d)20032002
Selected income statement dataTotal net revenue$61,437
$53,748$42,372$32,803$29,076
Provision for credit losses3,2703,4832,5441,5404,331
Total noninterest expense38,281
38,42633,97221,49022,471
Income from continuing operations before income tax expense19,886
11,8395,8569,7732,274
Income tax expense6,2373,5851,5963,209760
Income from continuing operations 13,649
8,2544,2606,5641,514
Income from discontinued operations
(a)795229206155149
Net income$14,444
$8,483$4,466$6,719$1,663
Per common share
Basic earnings per shareIncome from continuing operations
$3.93
$2.36$1.51$3.24$0.74
Net income4.162.431.593.320.81
Diluted earnings per shareIncome from continuing operations
$3.82
$2.32$1.48$3.17$0.73
Net income4.042.381.553.240.80
Cash dividends declared per share1.361.361.361.361.36
Book value per share
33.4530.7129.6122.1020.66
Common shares outstanding
Average:Basic 
3,4703,4922,7802,0091,984
Diluted 3,5743,5572,8512,0552,009
Common shares at period-end3,4623,4873,5562,0431,999
Share price
(b)High $49.00
$40.56$43.84$38.26$39.68
Low37.8832.9234.6220.1315.26
Close48.3039.6939.0136.7324.00
Market capitalization
167,199138,387138,72775,02547,969
Selected ratios
Return on common equity (ﬁROEﬂ):Income from continuing operations
12%8%6%15%4%
Net income1386164
Return on assets (ﬁROAﬂ):
(c)Income from continuing operations
1.040.700.440.850.21
Net income1.100.720.460.870.23
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.78.58.78.58.2
Total capital ratio
12.312.012.211.812.0
Overhead ratio
6271806677
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)Total assets
$1,351,520
$1,198,942$1,157,248$770,912$758,800
Loans483,127419,148402,114214,766216,364
Deposits638,788554,991521,456326,492304,753
Long-term debt133,421108,35795,42248,01439,751
Total stockholders™ equity
115,790107,211105,65346,15442,306
Headcount174,360
168,847160,96896,36797,124
(a)On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase & Co.completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses for the consumer,business b
anking and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York Company
Inc.The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses are being reported as discontinued operations for each of the
 periods presented.
(b)JPMorgan Chase™s common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of JPMorgan
Chase™s common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
(c)Represents Net income divided by Total average assets.

(d)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
FIVE-YEAR STOCK PERFORMANCE
$50$75$100$125
$150
$175December 31,(in dollars)2001   20022003200420052006
S&P Financial
S&P 500JPMorgan ChaseThe following table and graph compare the five-year cumulative total return for
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂor the ﬁFirmﬂ) common stock with

the cumulative return of the S&P 500 Stock Index and the S&P Financial Index.
The S&P 500 Index is a commonly referenced U.S.equity benchmark consisting

of leading companies from different economic sectors.The S&P Financial Index

is an index of 88 financial companies,all of which are within the S&P 500.The

Firm is a component of both published industry indices.
The following table and graph assume $100 invested on December 31,2001,in
JPMorgan Chase common stock and $100 invested at that same time in each ofthe S&P indices.
The comparison assumes that all dividends are reinvested.
20012002200320042005
2006JPMorgan Chase$100.00$69.29$111.06$122.13$129.15
$162.21
S&P Financial Index100.0085.00111.38123.50131.53
156.82S&P 500100.0078.00100.37111.29116.76
135.20JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
23ness loans,investments and insurance.Over 1,200 additional mortgage offi-
cers provide home loans throughout the country.
Card Services
With more than 154 million cards in circulation and $152.8 billion in managed
loans,Chase Card Services (ﬁCSﬂ) is one of the nation™s largest credit card

issuers.Customers used Chase cards for over $339 billion worth of transac-

tions in 2006.Chase offers a wide variety of general-purpose cards to satisfy the needs of
individual consumers,small businesses and partner organizations,including

cards issued with AARP,Amazon,Continental Airlines,Marriott,Southwest

Airlines,Sony,United Airlines,Walt Disney Company and many other well-

known brands and organizations.Chase also issues private-label cards with

Circuit City,Kohl™s,Sears Canada and BP.
Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC,a joint venture with JPMorgan Chase and
First Data Corporation,is the largest processor of MasterCard and Visa pay-

ments in the world,having handled over 18 billion transactions in 2006.
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking (ﬁCBﬂ) serves more than 30,000 clients,including corpo-
rations,municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities.These

clients generally have annual revenues ranging from $10 million to $2 billion.

Commercial bankers serve clients nationally throughout the RFS footprint and

in offices located in other major markets.
Commercial Banking offers its clients industry knowledge,experience,a dedi-
cated service model,comprehensive solutions and local expertise.The Firm™s

broad platform positions CB to deliver extensive product capabilities Œ
including lending,treasury services,investment banking and asset manage-

ment Œ to meet its clients™ U.S.and international financial needs.
Treasury & Securities Services 
Treasury & Securities Services (ﬁTSSﬂ) is a global leader in providing transac-

tion,investment and information services to support the needs of institutional

clients worldwide.TSS is one of the largest cash management providers in the

world and a leading global custodian.Treasury Services (ﬁTSﬂ) provides a vari-

ety of cash management products,trade finance and logistics solutions,whole-
sale card products,and liquidity management capabilities to small and midsized
companies,multinational corporations,financial institutions and government

entities.TS partners with the Commercial Banking,Retail Financial Services

and Asset Management businesses to serve clients firmwide.As a result,cer-

tain TS revenues are included in other segments™ results.Worldwide Securities

Services (ﬁWSSﬂ) stores,values,clears and services securities and alternative

investments for investors and broker-dealers;and manages Depositary Receipt

programs globally.
INTRODUCTIONJPMorgan Chase & Co.,a financial holding company incorporated under

Delaware law in 1968,is a leading global financial services firm and one of

the largest banking institutions in the United States,with $1.4 trillion in

assets,$115.8 billion in stockholders™ equity and operations worldwide.The

Firm is a leader in investment banking,financial services for consumers and

businesses,financial transaction processing,asset management and private

equity.Under the JPMorgan and Chase brands,the Firm serves millions of cus-

tomers in the United States and many of the world™s most prominent corpo-

rate,institutional and government clients.
JPMorgan Chase™s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank,

National Association (ﬁJPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.ﬂ),a national banking

association with branches in 17 states;and Chase Bank USA,National

Association (ﬁChase Bank USA,N.A.ﬂ),a national bank that is the Firm™s

credit card issuing bank.JPMorgan Chase™s principal nonbank subsidiary is

J.P.Morgan Securities Inc.,the Firm™s U.S.investment banking firm.
JPMorgan Chase™s activities are organized,for management reporting purposes,
into six business segments,as well as Corporate.The Firm™s wholesale busi-

nesses comprise the Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,Treasury &

Securities Services and Asset Management segments.The Firm™s consumer

businesses comprise the Retail Financial Services and Card Services segments.

A description of the Firm™s business segments,and the products and services

they provide to their respective client bases,follows.
Investment BankJPMorgan is one of the world™s leading investment banks,with deep client

relationships and broad product capabilities.The Investment Bank™s clients are

corporations,financial institutions,governments and institutional investors.The

Firm offers a full range of investment banking products and services in all

major capital markets,including advising on corporate strategy and structure,

capital raising in equity and debt markets,sophisticated risk management,

market-making in cash securities and derivative instruments,and research.The

Investment Bank (ﬁIBﬂ) also commits the Firm™s own capital to proprietary

investing and trading activities.
Retail Financial ServicesRetail Financial Services (ﬁRFSﬂ),which includes Regional Banking,Mortgage

Banking and Auto Finance reporting segments,helps meet the financial needs

of consumers and businesses.RFS provides convenient consumer banking

through the nation™s fourth-largest branch network and third-largest ATM net-

work.RFS is a top-five mortgage originator and servicer,the second-largest

home equity originator,the largest noncaptive originator of automobile loans

and one of the largest student loan originators.
RFS serves customers through more than 3,000 bank branches,8,500 ATMs
and 270 mortgage offices,and through relationships with more than 15,000

auto dealerships and 4,300 schools and universities.More than 11,000 branch

salespeople assist customers,across a 17-state footprint from New York to

Arizona,with checking and savings accounts,mortgage,home equity and busi-
This section of the Annual Report provides management™s discussion and analysis(ﬁMD&Aﬂ) of the financial condition and results of operations for JPMorgan Chase.See the Glossary of terms on pages 145Œ146 for definitions of terms used through-out this Annual Report. The MD&A included in this Annual Report contains state-ments that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private SecuritiesLitigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefsand expectations of JPMorgan Chase™s management and are subject to significantrisks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase™sresults to differ materially from those 
set forth insuch forward-looking statements.Certain of such risks and uncertaintiesare described herein (see Forward-lookingstatements on page 147 of this Annual Report) and in the JPMorgan Chase AnnualReport on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 (ﬁ2006 Form 10-Kﬂ),in Part I, Item 1A: Risk factors, to 
which reference is hereby made.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
24JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Asset ManagementWith assets under supervision of $1.3 trillion,Asset Management (ﬁAMﬂ) is a
global leader in investment and wealth management.AM clients include institu-

tions,retail investors and high-net-worth individuals in every major market

throughout the world.AM offers global investment management in equities,

fixed income,real estate,hedge funds,private equity and liquidity,including

both money market instruments and bank deposits.AM also provides trust and

estate and banking services to high-net-worth clients,and retirement services

for corporations and individuals.The majority of AM™s client assets are in actively

managed portfolios.
Merger with Bank One Corporation 
Effective July 1,2004,Bank One Corporation (ﬁBank Oneﬂ) merged with and

into JPMorgan Chase & Co.(the ﬁMergerﬂ).As a result of the Merger,each 

outstanding share of common stock of Bank One was converted in a stock-

for-stock exchange into 1.32 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase &

Co.The Merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.

Accordingly,the Firm™s results of operations for 2004 include six months of

heritage JPMorgan Chase results and six months of the combined Firm™s

results.For additional information regarding the Merger,see Note 2 on pages

95Œ96 of this Annual Report.
2006 Business events Acquisition of the consumer,business banking and middle-market

banking businesses of The Bank of New York in exchange for

selected corporate trust businesses,including trustee,paying

agent,loan agency and document management services

On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of The Bank

of New York Company,Inc.™s (ﬁThe Bank of New Yorkﬂ) consumer,business

banking and middle-market banking businesses in exchange for selected cor-

porate trust businesses plus a cash payment of $150 million.This acquisition
added 339 branches and more than 400 ATMs,and it significantly strengthens
RFS™s distribution network in the New York Tri-state area.The Bank of New

York businesses acquired were valued at a premium of $2.3 billion;the Firm™s

corporate trust businesses that were transferred (i.e.,trustee,paying agent,

loan agency and document management services) were valued at a premium

of $2.2 billion.The Firm also may make a future payment to The Bank of New

York of up to $50 million depending on certain new account openings.This

transaction included the acquisition of approximately $7.7 billion in loans and

$12.9 billion in deposits from The Bank of New York.The Firm also recog-

nized core deposit intangibles of $485 million which will be amortized using
an accelerated method over a 10 year period.JPMorgan Chase recorded an

after-tax gain of $622 million related to this transaction in the fourth quarter

of 2006.JPMorgan Partners management
On August 1,2006,the buyout and growth equity professionals of JPMorgan

Partners (ﬁJPMPﬂ) formed an independent firm,CCMP Capital,LLC (ﬁCCMPﬂ),

and the venture professionals separately formed an independent firm,

Panorama Capital,LLC (ﬁPanoramaﬂ).The investment professionals of CCMP

and Panorama continue to manage the former JPMP investments pursuant to a

management agreement with the Firm.Sale of insurance underwriting business

On July 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the sale of its life insurance and

annuity underwriting businesses to Protective Life Corporation for cash pro-

ceeds of approximately $1.2 billion,consisting of $900 million of cash

received from Protective Life Corporation and approximately $300 million of

preclosing dividends received from the entities sold.The after-tax impact of

this transaction was negligible.The sale included both the heritage Chase

insurance business and the insurance business that Bank One had bought

from Zurich Insurance in 2003.
Acquisition of private-label credit card portfolio from Kohl™s Corporation
On April 21,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of $1.6 billion

of private-label credit card receivables and approximately 21 million accounts

from Kohl™s Corporation (ﬁKohl™sﬂ).JPMorgan Chase and Kohl™s have also

entered into an agreement under which JPMorgan Chase will offer private-

label credit cards to both new and existing Kohl™s customers.
Collegiate Funding ServicesOn March 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase acquired,for approximately $663 mil-

lion,Collegiate Funding Services,a leader in education loan servicing and

consolidation.This acquisition included $6 billion of education loans and will

enable the Firm to create a comprehensive education finance business.
Acquisition of certain operations from Paloma Partners
On March 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase acquired the middle and back office

operations of Paloma Partners Management Company (ﬁPalomaﬂ),which was

part of a privately owned investment fund management group.The parties

also entered into a multiyear contract under which JPMorgan Chase will pro-

vide daily operational services to Paloma.The acquired operations have been

combined with JPMorgan Chase™s current hedge fund administration unit,

JPMorgan Tranaut.
JPMorgan and Fidelity Brokerage Company
On February 28,2006,the Firm announced a strategic alliance with Fidelity

Brokerage to become the exclusive provider of new issue equity securities and

the primary provider of fixed income products to Fidelity™s brokerage clients

and retail customers,effectively expanding the Firm™s existing distribution

platform.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
25Business overview The Firm reported record 2006 net income of $14.4 billion,or $4.04 per
share,compared with net income of $8.5 billion,or $2.38 per share,for

2005.The return on common equity was 13% compared with 8% in 2005.

Reported results include discontinued operations related to the exchange of

selected corporate trust businesses for the consumer,business banking and

middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York.Discontinued

operations produced $795 million of net income in 2006 compared with

$229 million in the prior year.The primary driver of the increase was a one-

time gain of $622 million related to the sale of the corporate trust business

(for further information on discontinued operations see Note 3 on page 97 of

this Annual Report).Income from continuing operations was a record $13.6

billion,or $3.82 per share,compared with $8.3 billion,or $2.32 per share,for

2005.For a detailed discussion of the Firm's consolidated results of opera-

tions,see pages 28Œ31 of this Annual Report.
Effective December 31,2006,William B.Harrison,Jr.retired as Chairman of
the Board and was succeeded as Chairman by Chief Executive Officer James

Dimon.The Firm™s record 2006 results were affected positively by global economic
conditions,investment in each line of business and the successful completion

of milestones in the execution of its Merger integration plan.A key milestone

related to the Merger integration was the New York Tri-state consumer con-

version,which linked the Firm™s more than 2,600 branches in 17 states on a

common systems platform (excluding 339 branches acquired from The Bank

of New York on October 1,2006).The Tri-state conversion,along with many

other merger integration activities,resulted in continued efficiencies.As a

result the Firm made significant progress toward reaching its annual merger-

related savings target of approximately $3.0 billion by the end of 2007.The

Firm realized approximately $675 million of incremental merger savings in

2006,bringing estimated cumulative savings for 2006 to $2.5 billion,and the

annualized run-rate of savings entering 2007 is approximately $2.8 billion.In

order to achieve these savings,the Firm expensed Merger costs of $305 mil-

lion during the year (including a modest amount of costs related to The Bank
of New York transaction),bringing the total cumulative amount expensed since

the Merger announcement to approximately $3.4 billion (including capitalized

costs).Management currently estimates remaining Merger costs of approxi-

mately $400 million,which are expected to be incurred during 2007 and will

include a modest amount of expense related to the acquisition of The Bank of

New York™s consumer,business banking and middle-market banking businesses.
The Firm also continued active management of its portfolio of businesses dur-

ing 2006.Actions included:exchanging selected corporate trust businesses for

the consumer,business banking and middle-market banking businesses of The

Bank of New York;divesting the insurance underwriting business;purchasing

Collegiate Funding Services to develop further the education finance business;
acquiring Kohl™s private-label credit card portfolio;acquiring the middle and

back office operations of Paloma Partners to expand the Firm™s hedge fund

administration capabilities;and announcing a strategic alliance with Fidelity

Brokerage to provide new issue equity and fixed income products.
In 2006,the global economy continued to expand,which supported contin-

ued rapid growth in the emerging market economies.Global gross domestic

product increased by an estimated 5%,with the European economy gaining

momentum,Japan making steady progress and emerging Asian economies

expanding approximately 8%.The U.S.economy rebounded early in the year

from the prior-year hurricane disruptions,but weakened in the second half of

the year as home construction declined,automobile manufacturing weakened

and the benefit of reconstruction from hurricane disruptions dissipated.The

U.S.experienced rising interest rates during the first half of the year,as the

Federal Reserve Board increased the federal funds rate from 4.25% to

5.25%.With an anticipated slowing of economic growth,lower inflation and

stabilizing energy prices,the federal funds rate was held steady during the

second half of the year.The yield curve subsequently inverted as receding

inflation expectations pushed long-term interest rates below the federal funds
rate.Equity markets,both domestic and international,reflected positive perform-

ance,with the S&P 500 up 13% on average and international indices increasing

16% on average during 2006.Global capital markets activity was strong during

2006,with debt and equity underwriting and merger and acquisition activity

surpassing 2005 levels.Demand for wholesale loans in the U.S.was strong with

growth of approximately 14%,while U.S.consumer loans grew an estimated

4% during 2006.U.S.consumer spending grew at a solid pace,supported by

strong equity markets,low unemployment and income growth,and lower ener-

gy prices in the second half of the year.This strength came despite a significant

decline in real estate appreciation.The 2006 economic environment was a contributing factor to the perform-

ance of the Firm and each of its businesses.The overall economic expansion,

strong level of capital markets activity and positive performance in equity

markets helped to drive new business volume and organic growth within

each of the Firm™s businesses while also contributing to the stable credit qual-

ity within the loan portfolio.However,the interest rate environment affected

negatively wholesale loan spread and consumer loan and deposit spreads.

Spreads related to wholesale liabilities widened compared with the prior year,

but this benefit declined over the course of 2006.EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
This overview of management™s discussion and analysis highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to readers of thisAnnual Report. For a more complete understanding of events, trends and uncertainties, as well as the capital, liquidity, credit and market risks, and the Critical
accounting estimates, affecting the Firm and and its various lines of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety. Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
20062005Change 
Selected income statement dataNet revenue$61,437
$53,74814%
Provision for credit losses3,2703,483(6)
Noninterest expense38,281
38,426Š
Income from continuing operations 13,649
8,25465
Income from discontinued operations 
795229247
Net income14,444
8,48370
Diluted earnings per share
Income from continuing operations 
$3.82
$2.3265%
Net income 4.042.3870
Return on common equity (ﬁROEﬂ)
Income from continuing operations 
12%8%Net income138MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
26JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The discussion that follows highlights the performance of each business segment compared with the prior year, and discusses results on a managedbasis unless otherwise noted. For more information about managed basis,See Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financialmeasures on pages 32Œ33 of this Annual Report.
Investment Banknet income was flat compared with the prior year,as
record revenue was offset by higher compensation expense and a provision for
credit losses compared with a benefit in the prior year.Revenue benefited
from investments in key business initiatives,increased market share and higher
global capital markets activity.Record investment banking fees were driven by

record debt and equity underwriting fees and strong advisory fees.Fixed

income markets revenue set a new record with strength in credit markets,

emerging markets and currencies.Equity markets revenue was also at a record

level,reflecting strength in cash equities and equity derivatives.The current-

year Provision for credit losses reflects portfolio activity;credit quality

remained stable.The increase in expense was primarily the result of higher

performance-based compensation including the impact of a higher ratio of

compensation expense to revenue and the adoption of SFAS 123R.
Retail Financial Servicesnet income was down from the prior year as
lower results in Mortgage Banking were offset partially by improved perform-
ance in Regional Banking and Auto Finance.Revenue declined due to lower

revenue in Mortgage Banking,narrower loan and deposit spreads in Regional

Banking and the sale of the insurance business on July 1,2006.Deposit and

loan spreads reflected the current interest rate and competitive environments.

These factors were offset partially by increases in average deposit and loan

balances and higher deposit-related and branch production fees in Regional

Banking,which benefited from the continued investment in the retail banking

distribution network and the overall strength of the U.S.economy.The provi-

sion for credit losses declined from the prior year due to the absence of a spe-
cial provision related to Hurricane Katrina in 2005,partially offset by the

establishment of additional allowance for loan losses related to loans acquired

from The Bank of New York.Expense increased,reflecting the purchase of

Collegiate Funding Services in the first quarter of 2006 and ongoing invest-
ments in the retail banking distribution network,with the net addition during

the year of 438 branch offices (including 339 from The Bank of New York),

1,194 ATMs and over 500 personal bankers.Partially offsetting these increases

were the sale of the insurance business and merger-related and other operat-

ing efficiencies.
Card Services
net income was a record,increasing significantly compared
with the prior year,primarily the result of a lower provision for credit losses.

Net revenue (excluding the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech)

declined slightly from the prior year.Net interest income was flat as the bene-

fit of an increase in average managed loan balances,partially due to portfolio

acquisitions as well as marketing initiatives,was offset by the challenging

interest rate and competitive environments.Noninterest revenue declined as

increased interchange income related to higher charge volume from increased
consumer spending was more than offset by higher volume-driven payments

to partners,including Kohl™s,and increased rewards expense.The managed

provision for credit losses benefited from significantly lower bankruptcy-related
credit losses following the new bankruptcy legislation that became effective in
October 2005.Underlying credit quality remained strong.Expense (excluding

the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech) increased driven by higher

marketing spending and acquisitions,partially offset by merger savings.
Commercial Banking
net income was a record in 2006.Record 
revenuebenefited from higher liability balances,higher loan volumes and increased

investment banking revenue,all of which benefited from increased sales

efforts and U.S.economic growth.Partially offsetting these benefits were loan

spread compression and a shift to narrower-spread liability products.The pro-

vision for credit losses increased compared with the prior year reflecting port-
folio activity and the establishment of additional allowances for loan losses

related to loans acquired from The Bank of New York,partially offset by a

release of the unused portion of the special reserve established in 2005 for
Hurricane Katrina.Credit quality remained stable.Expense increased due to

higher compensation expense related to the adoption of SFAS 123R and

increased expense related to higher client usage of Treasury Services™ products.
Treasury & Securities Services
net income was a record and increased
significantly over the prior year.Revenue was at a record level driven by high-

er average liability balances,business growth,increased product usage by

clients and higher assets under custody,all of which benefited from global

economic growth and capital markets activity.This growth was offset partially

by a shift to narrower-spread liability products.Expense increased due to
higher compensation related to business growth,investments in new products
and the adoption of SFAS 123R.The expense increase was offset partially by

the absence of a prior-year charge to terminate a client contract.
Asset Managementnet income was a record in 2006.Record revenue ben-
efited from increased assets under management driven by net asset inflows
and strength in global equity markets,and higher performance and placement

fees.The Provision for credit losses was a benefit reflecting net loan recover-

ies.Expense increased due primarily to higher performance-based compensa-

tion,incremental expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R,and increased

minority interest expense related to Highbridge Capital Management,LLC

(ﬁHighbridgeﬂ),offset partially by the absence of BrownCo.
Corporate
segment reported significantly improved results (excluding theimpact of discontinued operations,as discussed further,below) driven by

lower expense,improved revenue and the benefit of tax audit resolutions.

Revenue benefited from lower securities losses,improved net interest spread

and a higher level of available-for-sale securities partially offset by the

absence of the gain on the sale of BrownCo and lower Private Equity results.

Expense benefited from the absence of prior-year litigation reserve charges,

higher insurance recoveries relating to certain material litigation,lower merg-

er-related costs and other operating efficiencies.These benefits were offset

partially by incremental expense related to the adoption of SFAS 123R.
On October 1,2006,the Firm completed the exchange of selected corporate
trust businesses,including trustee,paying agent,loan agency and document

management services,for the consumer,business banking and middle-market

banking businesses of The Bank of New York.The corporate trust businesses,

which were previously reported in TSS,were reported as discontinued opera-

tions.The related balance sheet and income statement activity is reflected in

the Corporate segment for all periods presented.During 2006,these busi-

nesses produced $795 million of net income compared with net income of
$229 million in the prior year.Net income from discontinued operations was

significantly higher in 2006 due to a one-time after-tax gain of $622 million

related to the sale of these businesses.A modest amount of costs associated

with the acquisition side of this transaction are included in Merger costs.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
27Credit costs for the Firm were $5.5 billion compared with $7.3 billion in theprior year.The $1.8 billion decrease was due primarily to lower bankruptcy-

related losses in Card Services and the release in the current year of a portion
of the $400 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina that was

taken in 2005.The decline was offset partially by an increase in the wholesale

provision.The wholesale provision was $321 million compared with a benefit

of $811 million in the prior year.The increase was due primarily to portfolio

activity,partly offset by a decrease in nonperforming loans.Credit quality in

the wholesale portfolio was stable.The benefit in 2005 was due to improve-

ment in credit quality,reflected by significant reductions in criticized exposures

and nonperforming loans.Consumer provision for credit losses was $5.2 bil-

lion compared with $8.1 billion in the prior year.The reduction primarily

reflected the impact of significantly lower bankruptcy-related credit losses and
a special provision for credit losses in 2005 related to Hurricane Katrina.The Firm had,at year end,total stockholders™ equity of $115.8 billion,and a

Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.7%.The Firm purchased $3.9 billion,or 91 million

shares of common stock during the year.
2007 Business outlookThe following forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefsand expectations of JPMorgan Chase™s management and are subject to sig-nificant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could causeJPMorgan Chase™s results to differ materially from those set forth in such for-ward-looking statements.JPMorgan Chase™s outlook for 2007 should be viewed against the backdrop of

the global economy,financial markets activity and the geopolitical environment,

all of which are linked integrally.While the Firm considers outcomes for,and has

contingency plans to respond to,stress environments,the basic outlook for

2007 is predicated on the interest rate movements implied in the forward rate

curve for U.S.Treasury securities,the continuation of favorable U.S.and interna-

tional equity markets and continued expansion of the global economy.
The Investment Bank enters 2007 with a strong investment banking fee

pipeline and remains focused on developing new products and capabilities.

Asset Management anticipates growth driven by continued net asset inflows.

Commercial Banking and Treasury & Securities Services expect growth due to

increased business activity and product sales with some competitive and rate

pressures.However,the performance of the Firm™s wholesale businesses will

be affected by overall global economic growth and by financial market move-

ments and activity levels in any given period.Retail Financial Services anticipates benefiting from the continued expansion
of the branch network and sales force,including the addition of The Bank of

New York™s 339 branches,and improved sales productivity and cross-selling in

the branches.Loan and deposit spreads are expected to experience continued

compression due to the interest rate and competitive environments.
Card Services anticipates growth in managed receivables and sales volume,
both of which are expected to benefit from marketing initiatives and new

partnerships.Expenditures on marketing are expected to be lower than the

2006 level.In the Corporate segment,the revenue outlook for the Private Equity business
is directly related to the strength of the equity markets and the performance
of the underlying portfolio investments.If current market conditions persist,

the Firm anticipates continued realization of private equity gains in 2007,but

results can be volatile from quarter to quarter.Management believes that the

net loss in Treasury and Other Corporate,on a combined basis,will be approxi-

mately $50 to $100 million per quarter in 2007,reflecting merger savings and

other expense efficiency initiatives,such as less excess real estate.
The Provision for credit losses in 2007 is anticipated to be higher than in

2006,primarily driven by a trend toward a more normal level of provisioning

for credit losses in both the wholesale and consumer businesses.The con-

sumer Provision for credit losses should reflect a higher level of net charge-
offs as bankruptcy filings continue to increase from the significantly lower
than normal levels experienced in 2006 related to the change in bankruptcy
law in 2005.Firmwide expenses are anticipated to reflect investments in each business,
continued merger savings and other operating efficiencies.Annual Merger

savings are expected to reach approximately $3.0 billion by the end of 2007,

upon the completion of the last significant conversion activity,the wholesale

deposit conversion scheduled for the second half of 2007.Offsetting merger

savings will be continued investment in distribution enhancements and new
product offerings,and expenses related to recent acquisitions including The

Bank of New York transaction.Merger costs of approximately $400 million

are expected to be incurred during 2007 (including a modest amount related
to The Bank of New York transaction).These additions are expected to bring

total cumulative merger costs to $3.8 billion by the end of 2007.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
28JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorganChase™s consolidated results of operations on a reportedbasis 
for thethree-year period ended December 31, 2006. Factors that are related pri-marily to a single business segment are discussed in more detail withinthat business segment than they are in this consolidated section. Total netrevenue, Noninterest expense and Income tax expense have been revisedto reflect the impact of discontinued operations. For a discussion of theCritical accounting estimates used by the Firm that affect the Consolidatedresults of operations, see pages 83Œ85 of this Annual Report.
RevenueYear ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(a)Investment banking fees$5,520
$4,088$3,536
Principal transactions
10,3467,6695,148
Lending & deposit related fees3,4683,3892,672
Asset management,administration 
and commissions11,7259,8917,682
Securities gains (losses)(543)(1,336)338
Mortgage fees and related income5911,054803
Credit card income6,9136,7544,840
Other income2,1752,684826
Noninterest revenue40,195
34,19325,845
Net interest income21,242
19,55516,527
Total net revenue$61,437
$53,748$42,372
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005 
Total net revenue for 2006 was $61.4 billion,up by $7.7 billion,or 14%,from
the prior year.The increase was due to higher Principal transactions,primarily

from strong trading revenue results,record Asset management,administration

and commissions revenue,and record Investment banking fees.Also contribut-

ing to the increase was higher Net interest income and lower securities portfo-

lio losses.These improvements were offset partially by a decline in Other

income partly as a result of the gain recognized in 2005 on the sale of
BrownCo,and lower Mortgage fees and related income.
The increase in Investment banking fees was driven by record debt and equity

underwriting as well as strong advisory fees.For a further discussion of

Investment banking fees,which are recorded primarily in the IB,see the IB

segment results on pages 36Œ37 of this Annual Report.
Principal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized gains and
losses from trading activities,including physical commodities inventories that

are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value,primarily in the IB,and

Private equity gains and losses,primarily in the private equity business of

Corporate.Trading revenue increased compared with 2005 due to record per-

formance in Equity and Fixed income markets.For a further discussion of

Principal transactions revenue,see the IB and Corporate segment results on

pages 36Œ37 and 53Œ54,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Lending & deposit related fees rose slightly in comparison with 2005 as aresult of higher fee income on deposit-related fees and,in part,from The

Bank of New York transaction.For a further discussion of the change in

Lending & deposit related fees,which are recorded in RFS,see the RFS seg-

ment results on pages 38Œ42 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Asset management,administration and commissions revenue
in 2006 was driven by growth in assets under management in AM,which
exceeded $1 trillion at the end of 2006,higher equity-related commissions in
IB and higher performance and placement fees.The growth in assets under

management reflected net asset inflows in the institutional and retail seg-
ments.Also contributing to the increase were higher assets under custody in

TSS driven by market value appreciation and new business;and growth in

depositary receipts,securities lending and global clearing,all of which were

driven by a combination of increased product usage by existing clients and
new business.In addition,commissions in the IB rose as a result of strength

across regions,partly offset by the sale of the insurance business and

BrownCo.For additional information on these fees and commissions,see the

segment discussions for AM on pages 50Œ52,TSS on pages 48Œ49 and RFS

on pages 38Œ42,of this Annual Report.
The favorable variance in Securities gains (losses) was due primarily to lower
Securities losses in Treasury in 2006 from portfolio repositioning activities in

connection with the management of the Firm™s assets and liabilities.For a fur-

ther discussion of Securities gains (losses),which are mostly recorded in the

Firm™s Treasury business,see the Corporate segment discussion on pages

53Œ54 of this Annual Report.
Mortgage fees and related income declined in comparison with 2005 reflect-ing a reduction in net mortgage servicing revenue and higher losses on mort-
gage loans transferred to held-for-sale.These declines were offset partly by

growth in production revenue as a result of higher volume of loans sales and
wider gain on sale margins.Mortgage fees and related income exclude the

impact of NII and AFS securities gains related to mortgage activities.For a

discussion of Mortgage fees and related income,which is recorded primarily

in RFS™s Mortgage Banking business,see the Mortgage Banking discussion on

page 41 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income increased from 2005,primarily from higher customer
charge volume that favorably impacted interchange income and servicing fees

earned in connection with securitization activities,which benefited from lower

credit losses incurred on securitized credit card loans.These increases were

offset partially by increases in volume-driven payments to partners,expenses

related to reward programs,and interest paid to investors in the securitized

loans.Credit card income also was impacted negatively by the deconsolida-

tion of Paymentech in the fourth quarter of 2005.
The decrease in Other income compared with the prior year was due to a $1.3

billion pretax gain recognized in 2005 on the sale of BrownCo and lower gains
from loan workouts.Partially offsetting these two items were higher automo-

bile operating lease revenue;an increase in equity investment income,in partic-

ular,from Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC;and a pretax gain of $103 million

on the sale of MasterCard shares in its initial public offering.Net interest income rose due largely to improvement in Treasury™s net interest

spread and increases in wholesale liability balances,wholesale and consumer

loans,available-for-sale securities,and consumer deposits.Increases in con-

sumer and wholesale loans and deposits included the impact of The Bank of

New York transaction.These increases were offset partially by narrower

spreads on both trading-related assets and loans,a shift to narrower-spread

deposit products,RFS™s sale of the insurance business and the absence of

BrownCo in AM.The Firm™s total average interest-earning assets for 2006

were $995.5 billion,up 11% from the prior year,primarily as a result of an

increase in loans and other liquid earning assets,partially offset by a decline

in interests in purchased receivables as a result of the restructuring and

deconsolidation during the second quarter of 2006 of certain multi-seller con-CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
29volume-driven payments to partners and rewards expense.For a further dis-
cussion of Credit card income,see CS segment results on pages 43Œ45 of

thisAnnual Report.
The increase in Other income primarily reflected a $1.3 billion pretax gain on
the sale of BrownCo;higher gains from loan 
workouts and loan sales;and
higher automobile operating lease income.
Net interest income rose as a result of higher average volume of,and wider
spreads on,liability balances.Also contributing to the increase was higher

average volume of wholesale and consumer loans,in particular,real estate

and credit card loans,which partly reflected a private label portfolio acquisi-

tion by CS.These increases were offset partially by narrower spreads on con-

sumer and wholesale loans and on trading-related assets,as well as the

impact of the repositioning of the Treasury investment portfolio,and the

reversal of revenue related to increased bankruptcies in CS.The Firm™s total

average interest-earn
ing assets in 2005 were $899.1 billion,up 23% from the
prior year.The net interestyield on t
hese assets,on a fully taxable-equivalent
basis,was 2.20%,a decrease of seven basis points from the prior year.
Provision for credit losses 
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(a)Provision for credit losses $3,270
$3,483$2,544
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005 
The Provision for credit losses in 2006 declined $213 million from the prior
year dueto a $1.3 billion decrease in the consumer Provision for credit losses,
partly offset by a $1.1 billion increase in wholesale Provision for credit losses.

The decrease in the consumer provision was driven by CS,reflecting lower

bankruptcy-related losses,partly offset by higher contractual net charge-offs.

The 2005 consumer provision also reflected $350 million of a special provision

related to Hurricane Katrina,a portion of which was released in the current

year.The increase in the wholesale provision was due primarily to portfolio

activity,partly offset by a decrease in nonperforming loans.The benefit in

2005 was due to strong credit quality,reflected in significant reductions in

criticized exposure and nonperforming loans.Credit quality in the wholesale

portfolio was stable.For a more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and

the Allowance for loan losses,refer to Credit risk management on pages

64Œ76 of this Annual Report.
2005 compared with 2004

The Provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion,an increase of $939 million,or

37%,from 2004,reflecting the full-year impact of the Merger.The wholesale

Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $811 million for the year compared

with a benefit of $716 million in the prior year,reflecting continued strength in

credit quality.The 
wholesale loan net recovery rate was 0.06% in 2005,an
improvement from a net charge-off rate of 0.18% in the prior year.The total

consumer Provision for credit losses was $4.3 billion,$1.9 billion higher than

the prior year,primarily due to the Merger,higher bankruptcy-related net

charge-offs in Card Services and a $350 million special provision for Hurricane
Katrina.Also included in 2004 were accounting policy conformity adjustments

as a result of the Merger.Excluding 
these items,the consumer portfolio contin-
ued to show strength in credit quality.
duits that the Firm administered.The net yield on interest-earning assets,on a

fully taxable-equivalent basis,was 2.16%,a decrease of four basis points

from the prior year.For a further discussion of Net interest income,see the

Business Segment Results section on pages 34Œ35 of this Annual Report.
2005 compared with 2004
Total net revenue for 2005 was $53.7 billion,up 27% from 2004,primarily due
to the Merger,which affected every revenue category.The increase from 2004

also was affected by a $1.3 billion gain on the sale of BrownCo;higher Principal

transactions revenue;and higher Asset management,administration and com-

missions,which benefited from several new investments and growth in Assets

under management and Assets under custody.These increases were offset partly

by available-for-sale (ﬁAFSﬂ) securities losses as a result of repositioning of the

Firm™s Treasury investment portfolio.The discussions that follow highlight factors

other than the Merger that affected the 2005 versus 2004 comparison.The increase in Investment banking fees was driven by strong growth in advisory
fees resulting in part from the Cazenove business partnership.For a further dis-
cussion of Investment banking fees,which are primarily recorded in the IB,see

the IB segment results on pages 36Œ37and Note 2 on page 97 of this Annual
Report.Revenue from Principal transactions increased compared with 2004,driven by
stronger,although volatile,trading results across commodities,emerging mar-

kets,rate markets and currencies.Private equity gains were higher due to a con-

tinuation of favorable capital markets conditions.For a further discussion of

Principal transactions revenue,see the IB and Corporate segment results on

pages 36Œ37and 53Œ54,respectively,of this Annual Report.
The higher Lending & deposit related fees were driven by the Merger;absent

the effects of the Merger,the deposit-related fees would have been lower

due to rising interest rates.In a higher interest rate environment,the value of

deposit balances to a customer is greater,resulting in a reduction of deposit-

related fees.For a further discussion of liability balances (including deposits)

see the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 46Œ47 and 48Œ49,respec-

tively,of thisAnnual Report.
The increase in Asset management,administration and commissions revenue

was driven by incremental fees from several new investments,including the

acquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge,the Cazenove business part-

nership and the acquisition of Vastera.Also 
contributing to the higher level of
revenue was an increase in Assets 
under management,reflecting
net assetinflows in equity-related products and global equity market appreciation.In

addition,Assets under custody were up due to market value appreciation and

new business.Commissions rose as a result of a higher volume of brokerage

transactions.For additional information on these fees and commissions,see

the segment discussions for IB on pages 36Œ37,AM on pages 50Œ52 and TSS
on pages 48Œ49 of this Annual Report.
The decline in Securities gains (losses) reflected $1.3 billion of securities loss-

es,as compared with $338 million of gains in 2004.The losses were due to

repositioning of the Firm™s Treasury investment portfolio,to manage exposure

to interest rates.For a 
further discussion of Securities gains (losses),which
are recorded primarily in the Firm™s Treasury business,see the Corporate seg-

ment discussion on pages 53Œ54 of this Annual Report.
Mortgage fees and related income increased due to improved MSR risk-man-

agement results.For a 
discussion of Mortgage fees and related income,which is
recorded primarily in RFS™s Mortgage Banking business,see the segment discus-

sionfor RFS on pages 38Œ42 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income rose as a result of higher interchange income associated
with the increase in charge volume.This increase was offset partially by higher
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
30JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
and 2005,respectively,pertaining to certain material litigation matters.For a fur-
ther discussion of litigation,refer to Note 27 on pages 
130Œ131of this Annual
Report.Also contributing to the decline from the prior year were charges of $93

million in connection with the termination of a client contract in TSS in 2005;

and in RFS,the sale of the insurance business in the third quarter of 2006.These

items were offset partially by higher charges related to other litigation,and the

impact of growth in business volume,acquisitions and investments in the busi-

nesses.
For discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs,refer to Note 16

and Note 9 on pages 121Œ123 and 108,respectively,of this Annual Report.
2005 compared with 2004

Noninterest expense for 2005 was $38.4 billion,up 13% from 2004,primarily

due to the full-year impact of the Merger.Excluding Litigation reserve charges

and Merger costs,Noninterest expense would have been $35.1 billion,up 22%.

In addition to the Merger,expenses increased as a result of higher performance-

based incentives,continued investment spending in the Firm™s businesses and

incremental marketing expenses related to launching the new Chase brand,par-

tially offset by merger-related savings and operating efficiencies throughout the

Firm.Each category of Noninterest expense was affected by the Merger.The dis-

cussions that follow highlight factors other than the Merger that affected the
2005 versus 2004 comparison.Compensation expense rose as a result of higher performance-based incentives;additional headcount due to the insourcing of the Firm™s global technology
infrastructure (effective December 31,2004,
whenJPMorgan Chase terminated
the Firm™s outsourcing agreement with IBM);the impact of several investments,

including Cazenove,Highbridge and Vastera;the accelerated vesting of certain

employee stock options;and business 
growth.The effect 
of the termination of the IBM outsourcing agreement was to shift expenses from Technology

and communications expense to Compensation expense.The increase in

Compensation expense was offset partially by merger-related savings through-

out the Firm.F
or a detailed discussion of employee stock-based incentives,see
Note 8 on pages 105Œ107 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Occupancy expense was due primarily to the Merger,partially
offset by lower charges for excess real estate and a net release of excess
property tax accruals,as compared with $103 million of charges for excess

real estate in 2004.Technology and communications expense was down slightly.This reduction
reflects the offset of six months of the combined Firm™s results for 2004

against the full-year 2005 impact from termination of the JPMorgan Chase
outsourcing agreement with IBM.The reduction in Technology and communi-

cations expense due to the outsourcing agreement termination is offset most-
ly by increases in Compensation expense related to additional headcount and
investments in the Firm™s hardware and software infrastructure.
Professional and outside services were higher compared with the prior year asa result of the insourcing of the Firm™s global technology infrastructure,

upgrades to the Firm™s systems and technology,and business growth.These

expenses were offset partially by operating efficiencies.
Marketing expense was higher compared with the prior year,primarily as a
result of the Merger and the cost of advertising campaigns to launch the new
Chase brand.
Noninterest expense
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(a)Compensation expense$21,191
$18,065$14,291
Occupancy expense2,3352,2692,058
Technology,communications and
equipment expense3,6533,6023,687
Professional & outside services 3,8884,1623,788
Marketing 
2,2091,9171,335
Other expense3,2726,1996,537
Amortization of intangibles1,4281,490911
Merger costs3057221,365
Total noninterest expense$
38,281$38,426$33,972
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005 
Total noninterest expense for 2006 was $38.3 billion,down slightly from the prior
year.The decrease was due to material litigation-related insurance recoveries of

$512 million in 2006 compared with a net charge of $2.6 billion (includes $208
million material litigation-related insurance recoveries) in 2005,primarily associat-

ed with the settlement of the Enron and WorldCom class action litigations and for

certain other material legal proceedings.Also contributing to the decrease were

lower Merger costs,the deconsolidation of Paymentech,the sale of the insurance

business,and merger-related savings and operating efficiencies.These items were

offset mostly by higher performance-based compensation and incremental
expense of $712 million related to SFAS 123R,the impact of acquisitions and

investments in businesses,as well as higher Marketing expenditures.
The increase in Compensation expense from 2005 was primarily a result of

higher performance-based incentives,incremental expense related to SFAS

123R of $712 million for 2006,and additional headcount in connection with

growth in business volume,acquisitions,and investments in the businesses.

These increases were offset partially by merger-related savings and other

expense efficiencies throughout the Firm.For a detailed discussion of the adop-

tion of SFAS 123R and employee stock-based incentives see Note 8 on pages

105Œ107 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Occupancy expense from 2005 was due to ongoing investments
in the retail distribution network,which included the incremental expense from

The Bank of New York branches,partially offset by merger-related savings and

other operating efficiencies.
The slight increase in Technology,communications and equipment expense for

2006 was due primarily to higher depreciation expense on owned automobiles

subject to operating leases and higher technology investments to support busi-

ness growth,partially offset by merger-related savings and operating efficiencies.
Professional & outside services decreased from 2005 due to merger-related

savings and operating efficiencies,lower legal fees associated with several

legal matters settled in 2005 and the Paymentech deconsolidation.The

decrease was offset partly by acquisitions and business growth.
Marketing expense was higher compared with 2005,reflecting the costs of
campaigns for credit cards.
Other expense was lower due to significant litigation-related charges of $2.8 bil-

lion in 2005,associated with the settlement of the Enron and WorldCom class

action litigations and certain other material legal proceedings.In addition,the

Firm recognized insurance recoveries of $512 million and $208 million,in 2006
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
31The decrease in Other expense reflected lower litigation reserve charges for
certain material legal proceedings in 2005:$1.9 billion related to the settle-

ment of the Enron class action litigation and for certain other material legal
proceedings,and $900 million for the settlement of the WorldCom class action

litigation;and in 2004,$3.7 billion to increase litigation reserves.Also con-

tributing to the decrease were a $208 million insurance recovery related to

certain material litigation,lower software impairment write-offs,merger-relat-

ed savings and operating efficiencies.These were offset partially by $93 mil-

lion in charges taken by TSS to terminate a client contract and a $40 million

charge taken by RFS related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture.
For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs,refer to Note

16 and Note 9 on pages 121Œ123 and 108,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Income tax expenseThe Firm™s Income from continuing operations before income tax expense,

Income tax expense and Effective tax rate were as follows for each of the

periods indicated:Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except rate)
200620052004
(a)Income from continuing operations
before income tax expense
$19,886
$11,839$5,856
Income tax expense 6,2373,5851,596
Effective tax rate
31.4%30.3%27.3%
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005 
The increase in the effective tax rate for 2006,as compared with the prior

year,was primarily the result of higher reported pretax income combined with

changes in the proportion of income subject to federal,state and local taxes.

Also contributing to the increase in the effective tax rate were the litigation

charges in 2005 and lower Merger costs,reflecting a tax benefit at a 38%

marginal tax rate,partially offset by benefits related to tax audit resolutions

of $367 million in 2006.2005 compared with 2004
The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily the result of higher

reported pretax income combined with changes in the proportion of income
subject to federal,state and local taxes.Also contributing to the increase

were lower 2005 litigation charges and a gain on the sale of BrownCo,which
were taxed at marginal tax rates of 38% and 40%,respectively.These

increases were offset partially by a tax benefit in 2005 of $55 million record-
ed in connection with the repatriation of foreign earnings.
Income from discontinued operations 
As a result of the transaction with The Bank of New York on October 1,2006,

the results of operations of the selected corporate trust businesses (i.e.,

trustee,paying agent,loan agency and document management services) were

reported as discontinued operations.
The Firm™s Income from discontinued operations (after-tax) were as follows for
each of the periods indicated:Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(a)Income from discontinued operations
$795
$229$206
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The increases from the prior two periods in Income from discontinued opera-
tions were due primarily to a gain of $622 million from exiting the corporate

trust business in the fourth quarter of 2006.(Table continues on next page)
Year ended December 31,
20062005(in millions,except ReportedCreditT
ax-equivalent
ManagedReportedCreditTax-equivalentManaged
per share and ratio data)resultscard
(b)adjustmentsbasisresultscard
(b)adjustmentsbasis
RevenueInvestment banking fees$5,520$Š$Š$5,520
$4,088$Š$Š$4,088
Principal transactions
10,346ŠŠ10,346
7,669ŠŠ7,669
Lending & deposit related fees3,468ŠŠ3,468
3,389ŠŠ3,389
Asset management,administration and
commissions11,725ŠŠ11,725
9,891ŠŠ9,891
Securities gains (losses)(543)ŠŠ(543)
(1,336)ŠŠ(1,336)
Mortgage fees and related income591ŠŠ591
1,054ŠŠ1,054
Credit card income6,913(3,509)Š3,404
6,754(2,718)Š4,036
Other income2,175Š6762,851
2,684Š5713,255
Noninterest revenue40,195(3,509)67637,362
34,193(2,718)57132,046
Net interest income21,2425,71922827,189
19,5556,49426926,318
Total net revenue61,4372,21090464,551
53,7483,77684058,364
Provision for credit losses3,2702,210Š5,480
3,4833,776Š7,259
Noninterest expense38,281ŠŠ38,281
38,426ŠŠ38,426
Income from continuing operations 
before income tax expense
19,886Š90420,790
11,839Š84012,679
Income tax expense6,237Š9047,141
3,585Š8404,425
Income from continuing operations 
13,649ŠŠ13,649
8,254ŠŠ8,254
Income from discontinuedoperations 
795ŠŠ795
229ŠŠ229
Net income$14,444$Š$Š$14,444
$8,483$Š$Š$8,483
Income from continuing operations
Œ diluted earnings per share$3.82$Š$Š$3.82
$2.32$Š$Š$2.32
Returnon commonequity
(a)12%Š%Š%12%
8%Š%Š%8%
Return on common equity less goodwill(a)20ŠŠ20
13ŠŠ13
Return on assets(a)1.04NMNM1.00
0.70NMNM0.67
Overhead ratio
62NMNM59
71NMNM66
LoansŒPeriod-end
$483,127$66,950$Š$550,077
$419,148$
70,527Š$489,675
Total assets Œ average
1,313,79465,266Š1,379,060
1,185,06667,180Š     1,252,246
(a)  Based on Income from continuing operations.
(b)The impact of credit card securitizations affects CS.See pages 43Œ45 of this Annual Report for further information.

(c) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
32JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm™s reported U.S.GAAP results to managed basis:
The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (ﬁU.S.GAAPﬂ);

these financial statements appear on pages 90Œ93of this Annual Report.That

presentation,which is referred to as ﬁreported basis,ﬂprovides the readerwith

an understanding of the Firm™s results that can be tracked consistently from

year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm™s performance with other

companies™ U.S.GAAP financial statements.
Effective January 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase™s presentation of ﬁoperating earn-
ings,ﬂwhich excluded merger costs and material litigation reserve charges

and recoveries from reported results,was eliminated.These items had been

excluded previously from operating results because they were deemed nonre-

curring;they are included now in the Corporate segment™s results.In addition,

trading-related net interest income no longer is reclassified from Net interest

income to Principal transactions.
In addition to analyzing the Firm™s results on a reported basis,management
reviews the Firm™s and the lines™ of business results on a ﬁmanagedﬂbasis,

which is a non-GAAP financial measure.The Firm™s definition of managed

basis starts with the reported U.S.GAAP results and includes certain reclassifi-

cations that assumes credit card loans securitized by CS remain on the bal-
ance sheet and presents revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent (ﬁFTEﬂ) basis.

These adjustments do not have any impact on Net income as reported by the

lines of business or by the Firm as a whole.
The presentation of CS results on a managed basis assumes that credit card
loans that have been securitized and sold in accordance with SFAS 140 still

remain on the balance sheet and that the earnings on the securitized loans
are classified in the same manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded
on the balance sheet.JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of managed basis to

evaluate the 
credit performance and overall financial performance of the entire
EXPLANATIONANDRECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM™S USE OF NON-GAAPFINANCIAL MEASURES
(Table continued from previous page)
2004(c)ReportedCreditTax-equivalentManaged
resultscard
(b)adjustmentsbasis
$3,536$Š$Š$3,536
5,148ŠŠ5,148

2,672ŠŠ2,672
7,682ŠŠ7,682
338ŠŠ338

803ŠŠ803
4,840(2,267)Š2,573
826(86)3171,057
25,845(2,353)31723,809
16,5275,251621,784
42,3722,89832345,593
2,5442,898Š5,442
33,972ŠŠ33,972
5,856Š3236,179
1,596Š3231,919
4,260ŠŠ4,260
206ŠŠ206
$4,466$Š$Š$4,466
$1.48$Š$Š$1.48
6%Š%Š%6%
8ŠŠ8
0.44NMNM0.43
80NMNM75
$402,114$70,795Š$472,909
962,55651,084Š1,013,640
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
33Calculation of Certain GAAP and Non-GAAP MetricsThe table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both the following
GAAP and non-GAAP measures:Return on common equityNet income*/ Average common stockholders™ equity
Return on common equity less goodwill(a)Net income*/ Average common 
stockholders™ equity less goodwillReturn on assetsReportedNet income/ Total average assets

ManagedNet income / Total average managed assets
(b)(including average securitized credit card receivables)
Overhead ratio
Total noninterest expense / Total net revenue
* Represents Net income applicable to common stock(a) The Firm uses Return on common equity less goodwill,a non-GAAP financial measure,
to evaluate the operating performance of the Firm and to facilitate comparisons to 

competitors.
(b)The Firm uses Return on managed assets,a non-GAAP financial measure,to evaluate 
the overall performance of the managed credit card portfolio,including securitized credit

card loans.
managed credit card portfolio.Operations are funded and decisions are made
about allocating resources,such as employees and capital,based upon man-

aged financial information.In addition,the same underwriting standards and

ongoing risk monitoring are used for both loans on the balance sheet and
securitized loans.Although securitizations result in the sale of credit card

receivables to a trust,JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoing customer relation-

ships,as the customers may continue to use their credit cards;accordingly,the

customer™s credit performance will affect both the securitized loans and the

loans retained on the balance sheet.JPMorgan Chase believes managed basis

information is useful to investors,enabling them to understand both the credit

risks associated with the loans reported on the balance sheet and the Firm™s

retained interests in securitized loans.For a reconciliation of reported to man-

aged basis of CS results,see Card Services segment results on pages 
43Œ45of this Annual Report.For information regarding the securitization process,

and loans and residual interests sold and securitized,see Note 14 on pages

114Œ118 of this Annual Report.
Total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is present-

ed on an FTE basis.Accordingly,revenue from tax-exempt securities and

investments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a
basis comparable to taxable securities and investments.This non-GAAP finan-

cial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenues aris-

ing from both taxable and tax-exempt sources.The corresponding income tax

impact related to these items is recorded within Income tax expense.
Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the segmentlevel because it believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide informa-
tion to investors about the underlying operational performance and trends of

the particular business segment and therefore facilitate a comparison of the
business segment with the performance of its competitors.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
34JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis.The business segment finan-
cial results presented reflect the current organization of JPMorgan Chase.

There are six major reportable business segments:the Investment Bank,Retail

Financial Services,Card Services,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities

Services and Asset Management,as well as a Corporate segment.The seg-
ments are based upon the products and services provided,or the type of cus-
tomer served,and they reflect the manner in which financial information is

currently evaluated by management.Results of these lines of business are pre-

sented on a managed basis.Segment results for 2004 include six months of

the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
AssetManagementBusinesses:Treasury Services
Worldwide
Securities ServicesJPMorgan Chase
Businesses:Middle Market
BankingMid-Corporate
BankingReal Estate
BankingChase 
BusinessCreditChase 
EquipmentLeasingCommercial
BankingBusinesses:Investment Banking:
- Advisory- Debt and equityunderwritingMarket-Making
and Trading:
- Fixed income 
- EquitiesCorporate Lending

Principal Investing
Investment BankRetail FinancialServicesCard
ServicesBusinesses:Investment
Management:- Institutional
- RetailPrivate Banking

Private Client
ServicesBusinesses:Credit Card
Merchant Acquiring
Businesses:Regional Banking:
- Consumer and
Business Banking- Home equity lending

- Education lending
Mortgage
BankingAuto Finance
Treasury &
Securities ServicesDescription of business segment reporting methodology
Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if itwere essentially a stand-alone business.During 2006,JPMorgan Chase modified

certain of its segment disclosures to reflect more closely the manner in which
the Firm™s business segments are managed and to provide improved compara-

bility with competitors.These financial disclosure modifications are reflected in

this Annual Report and,except as indicated,the financial information for prior

periods has been revised to reflect the changes as if they had been in effect
throughout all periods reported.A summary of the changes follows:
The presentation of operating earnings in 2005 and 2004 that excluded
from reported results merger costs and material litigation reserve charges

and recoveries was eliminated effective January 1,2006.These items had

been excluded previously from operating results because they were deemed

nonrecurring;they are included now in the Corporate business segment™s

results.
Trading-related net interest income is no longer reclassified from Net inter-
est income to Principal transactions.
Various wholesale banking clients,together with the related balance sheet
and income statement items,were transferred among CB,the IB and TSS.

The primary client transfer was corporate mortgage finance from CB to the

IB and TSS.
TSS firmwide disclosures have been adjusted to reflect a refined set of TSS
products as well as a revised allocation of liability balances and lending-
related revenue related to certain client transfers.
As a result of the transaction with The Bank of New York,selected corpo-
rate trust businesses have been transferred from TSS to the Corporate seg-

ment and reported in discontinued operations for all periods reported.
The management reporting process that derives business segment results
allocates income and expense using market-based methodologies.The Firm

continues to assess the assumptions,methodologies and reporting classifica-

tions used for segment reporting,and further refinements may be implement-

ed in future periods.Segment reporting methodologies used by the Firm are

discussed below.
Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the
Firm™s clients,the participating business segments agree to share revenues

from those transactions.The segment results reflect these revenue-sharing

agreements.
Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing (ﬁFTPﬂ) is used to allocate interest income and

expense to each business and transfer the primary interest rate risk exposures

to the Corporate business segment.The allocation process is unique to each

business segment and considers the interest rate risk,liquidity risk and regu-

latory requirements of that segment™s stand-alone peers.This process is over-

seen by the Firm™s Asset-Liability Committee (ﬁALCOﬂ).Business segments

may retain certain interest rate exposures,subject to management approval,

that would be expected in the normal operation of a similar peer business.
Year ended December 31,
Net income (loss)Return on equity 
(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
(c)200620052004
(c)Investment Bank$3,674
$3,673$2,956
18%18%17%
Retail Financial Services3,2133,4272,199
222624
Card Services3,2061,9071,274
231617
Commercial Banking1,010951561
182827
Treasury & Securities Services
1,090863277
485714
Asset Management1,4091,216681
405117
Corporate
(b)842(3,554)(3,482)
NMNMNM
Total $14,444
$8,483$4,466
13%8%6%
(a)Represents reported results on a tax-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.
(b)Net income includes Income from discontinued operations (after-tax) of $795 million,$229 million and $206 million for 2006,2
005 and 2004,respectively.
(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
35Capital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-
alone peer comparisons,economic risk measures and regulatory capital

requirements.The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to

as equity.Effective January 1,2006,the Firm refined its methodology for allo-

cating capital to the business segments.As prior periods have not been

revised to reflect the new capital allocations,certain business metrics,such as

ROE,are not comparable to the current presentations.For a further discussion

of this change,see Capital managementŒLine of business equity on page 57

of this Annual Report.
Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by support units within the
Firm,the costs of those support units are allocated to the business segments.

Those expenses are allocated based upon their actual cost or the lower of

actual cost or market,as well as upon usage of the services provided.In con-

trast,certain other expenses related to certain corporate functions,or to cer-
tain technology and operations,are not allocated to the business segments
and are retained in Corporate.These retained expenses include:parent com-

pany costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone busi-
nesses;adjustments to align certain corporate staff,technology and opera-

tions allocations with market prices;and other one-time items not aligned

with the business segments.
During 2005,the Firm refined cost allocation methodologies related to certain

corporate,technology and operations expenses in order to improve transparen-

cy,consistency and accountability with regard to costs allocated across business

segments.Prior periods were not revised to reflect this methodology change.
Credit reimbursementTSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures managed by the IB on
behalf of clients that the segments share.At the time of the Merger,the reim-

bursement methodology was revised to be based upon pretax earnings,net of

the cost of capital related to those exposures.
Segment results Œ Managed basis
(a)The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated:
Year ended December 31,
Total net revenueNoninterest expense
(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
(c)200620052004
(c)Investment Bank$18,277
$14,613$12,633
$12,304
$9,749$8,709
Retail Financial Services14,82514,83010,791
8,9278,5856,825
Card Services14,74515,36610,745
5,0864,9993,883
Commercial Banking3,8003,4882,278
1,9791,8561,326
Treasury & Securities Services
6,1095,5394,198
4,2664,0503,726
Asset Management6,7875,6644,179
4,5783,8603,133
Corporate
(b)8(1,136)769
1,1415,3276,370
Total$64,551
$58,364$45,593
$38,281
$38,426$33,972
INVESTMENT BANKJPMorgan is one of the world™s leading investment banks,
with deep client relationships and broad product capabilities.

The Investment Bank™s clients are corporations,financial institu-

tions,governments and institutional investors.The Firm offers a

full range of investment banking products and services in all

major capital markets,including advising on corporate strategy

and structure,capital raising in equity and debt markets,sophis-

ticated risk management,market-making in cash securities and

derivative instruments,and research.The IB also commits the

Firm™s own capital to proprietary investing and trading activities.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
(e)RevenueInvestment banking fees$5,537
$4,096$3,572
Principal transactions
9,0866,0593,548
Lending & deposit related fees517594539
Asset management,administration 
and commissions2,1101,7271,401
All other income528534277
Noninterest revenue17,778
13,0109,337
Net interest income
(a)4991,6033,296
Total net revenue
(b)18,27714,61312,633
Provision for credit losses191(838)(640)
Credit reimbursement from TSS
(c)12115490
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense8,1905,7924,896
Noncompensation expense4,1143,9573,813
Total noninterest expense12,304
9,7498,709
Income before income tax expense5,903
5,8564,654
Income tax expense 
2,2292,1831,698
Net income$3,674
$3,673$2,956
Financial ratios
ROE18%18%17%
ROA0.570.610.62
Overhead ratio
676769
Compensation expense as% of total net revenue
(d)434039
(a)The decline in net interest income for the periods shown is largely driven by a decline in trad-
ing-related net interest income caused by a higher proportion of noninterest-bearing net trad-

ing assets to total net trading assets,higher funding costs compared with prior-year periods,

and spread compression due to the inverted yield curve in place for most of the current year.
(b)Total Net revenue includes tax-equivalent adjustments,primarily due to tax-exempt income
from municipal bond investments and income tax credits related to affordable housing invest-
ments,of $802 million,$752 million and $274 million for 2006,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(c)TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the 
IB credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.For a further discussion,see Credit

reimbursement on page 35 of this Annual Report.
(d)Beginning in 2006,the Compensation expense to Total net revenue ratio is adjusted to
present this ratio as if SFAS 123R had always been in effect.IB management believes that

adjusting the Compensation expense to Total net revenue ratio for the incremental impact

of adopting SFAS 123R provides a more meaningful measure of IB™s Compensation expense

to Total net revenue ratio.
(e)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005
Net income of $3.7 billion was flat,as record revenue of $18.3 billion was 
offsetlargely by higher compensation expense,including the impact of SFAS 123R,
and a provision for credit losses compared with a benefit in the prior year.Total net revenue of $18.3 billion was up $3.7 billion,or 25%,from the prior

year.Investment banking fees of $5.5 billion were a record,up 35% from the

prior year,driven by record debt and equity underwriting as well as strong

advisory fees,which were the highest since 2000.Advisory fees of $1.7 billion
The following table provides the IB™s total Net revenue by business segment:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(d)Revenue by businessInvestment banking fees:Advisory$1,659
$1,263$938
Equity underwriting1,178864781
Debt underwriting2,7001,9691,853
Total investment banking fees
5,5374,0963,572
Fixed income markets
(a)8,3697,2776,342
Equity markets
(b)3,2641,7991,491
Credit portfolio(c)1,1071,4411,228
Total net revenue$18,277
$14,613$12,633
(a)Fixed income markets includes client and portfolio management revenue related to both
market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets,including

foreign exchange,interest rate,credit and commodities markets.
(b)  Equities markets includes client and portfolio management revenue related to market-
making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity products,including cash instru-

ments,derivatives and convertibles.
(c)  Credit portfolio revenue includes Net interest income,fees and loan sale activity,as well 
as gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring,for 
the IB™s credit
portfolio.Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to

the Firm™s lending and derivative activities,and changes in the credit valuation adjustment

(ﬁCVAﬂ),which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit

quality of the counterparty.See pages 70Œ72of the Credit risk management section of

this Annual Report for further discussion.
(d)  2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
36JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
were up 31% over the prior year driven primarily by strong performance in theAmericas.Debt underwriting fees of $2.7 billion were up 37% from the prior

year driven by record performance in both loan syndications and bond under-
writing.Equity underwriting fees of $1.2 billion were up 36% from the prior

year driven by global equity markets.Fixed Income Markets revenue of $8.4

billion was also a record,up 15% from the prior year driven by strength in

credit markets,emerging markets and currencies.Record Equity Markets rev-

enue of $3.3 billion increased 81%,and was driven by strength in cash equi-

ties and equity derivatives.Credit Portfolio revenue of $1.1 billion was down

23%,primarily reflecting lower gains from loan workouts.
Provision for credit losses was $191 million compared with a benefit of $838

million in the prior year.The current-year provision reflects portfolio activity;
cred-it quality remained stable.The prior-year benefit reflected strong credit quality,
adecline in criticized and nonperforming loans,and a higher level of recoveries.
Total noninterest expense of $12.3 billion was up by $2.6 billion,or 26%,

from the prior year.This increase was due primarily to higher performance-

based compensation,including the impact of an increase in the ratio of com-

pensation expense to total net revenue,as well as the incremental expense

related to SFAS 123R.
Return on equity was 18% on $20.8 billion of allocated capital compared with
18% on $20.0 billion in 2005.2005 compared with 2004

Net income of $3.7 billion was up 24%,or $717 million,from the prior year.The

increase was driven by the Merger,higher revenues and an increased benefit

from the Provision for credit losses.These factors were offset partially by higher

compensation expense.Return on equity was 18%.
Total net revenue of $14.6 billion was up $2.0 billion,or 16%,over the prior
year,driven by strong Fixed Income and Equity Markets and Investment banking

fees.Investment banking fees of $4.1 billion increased 15% from the prior year

driven by strong growth in advisory fees resulting in part from the Cazenove
business partnership.Advisory revenues of $1.3 billion were up 35% from the

prior year,reflecting higher m
arket volumes.Debt underwriting revenues of 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(a)Loans retained include Credit Portfolio,conduit loans,leveraged leases,bridge loans for
underwriting and other accrual loans.
(b)Loans held-for-sale,which include loan syndications,and warehouse loans held as part of
the IB™s mortgage-backed,asset-backed and other securitization businesses,are excluded

from Total loans for the allowance coverage ratio and net charge-off rate.
(c)Adjusted assets,a non-GAAP financial measure,equals total average assets minus (1)
securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed less securities sold,

not yet purchased;(2) assets of variable interest entities (VIEs) consolidated under FIN 46R;

(3) cash and securities segregated and on deposit for regulatory and other purposes;and

(4) goodwill and intangibles.The amount of adjusted assets is presented to assist the read-

er in comparing the IB™s asset and capital levels to other investment banks in the securities

industry.Asset-to-equity leverage ratios are commonly used as one measure to assess a

company™s capital adequacy.The IB believes an adjusted asset amount that excludes 

the assets discussed above,which are considered to have a low risk profile,provides a

more meaningful measure of balance sheet leverage in the securities industry.
(d)Nonperforming loans include loans held-for-sale of $3 million,$109 million and 
$2 million as of December 31,2006,2005 and 2004,respectively,which are excluded

from the allowance coverage ratios.Nonperforming loans exclude distressed HFS loans pur-

chased as part of IB™s proprietary activities.
(e)For a more complete description of VAR,see page 77 of this Annual Report.

(f)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Total average loans of $80.6 billion increased by $24.0 billion,or 42%,from
the prior year.Average loans retained of $58.8 billion increased by $14.0 bil-

lion,or 31%,from the prior year driven by higher levels of capital markets

activity.Average loans held-for-sale of $21.7 billion were up by $10.0 billion,

or 85%,from the prior year driven primarily by growth in the IB securitization

businesses.
IB™s average Total trading and credit portfolio VAR was $88 million for both
2006 and 2005.The Commodities and other VAR category has increased from

$21 million on average for 2005 to $45 million on average for 2006,reflect-

ing the build-out of the IB energy business,which has also increased the effect

of portfolio diversification such that Total IB Trading VAR was down slightly 

compared with the prior year.
According to Thomson Financial,in 2006,the Firm maintained its #2 position
in Global Debt,Equity and Equity-related,its #1 position in Global Syndicated

Loans,and its #6 position in Global Equity & Equity-related transactions.The

Firm improved its position in Global Long-term Debt to #3 from #4.According to Dealogic,the Firm was ranked #1 in Investment Banking fees
generated during 2006,based upon revenue.
Market shares and rankings
(a)200620052004
Market MarketMarket
December 31,ShareRankingsShareRankingsShare
RankingsGlobal debt,equity and 
equity-related7%#2
7%#27%#3
Global syndicated loans141
151191
Global long-term debt636472
Global equity and equity-related767666
Global announced M&A234
233223
U.S.debt,equity and 
equity-related928385
U.S.syndicated loans
261
281321
U.S.long-term debt
122
112122
U.S.equity and equity-related
(b)869694
U.S.announced M&A
273
263282
(a) Source:Thomson Financial Securities data.Global announced M&A is based upon rank
value;all other rankings are based upon proceeds,with full credit to each book 

manager/equal if joint.Because of joint assignments,market share of all participants will

add up to more than 100%.The market share and rankings for December 31,2004 are

presented on a combined basis,as if the merger of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One had

been in effect for the entire period.(b) References U.S domiciled equity and equity-related transactions,per Thomson Financial.
$2.0 billion increased by 6% driven by strong loan syndication fees.Equity
underwriting fees of $864 millionwere up 
11% from the prior year driven byimproved market share.Fixed Income Markets revenue of $7.3 billion increased

15%,or $935 million,driven by stronger,although volatile,trading results across

commodities,emerging markets,rate markets and currencies.Equity Markets rev-

enues increased 21% to $1.8 billion,primarily due to increased commissions,

which were offset partially by lower trading results,which also experienced a

high level of volatility.Credit Portfolio revenues were $1.4 billion,up $213 mil-

lion from the prior year due to higher gains from loan workouts and sales as

well as higher trading revenue from credit risk management activities.
The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $838 million compared with a
benefit of $640 million in 2004.The increased benefit was due primarily to the
improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio and reflected net recoveries.
Nonperforming assets of $645 million decreased by 46% since the end of 2004.Total noninterest expense increased 12% to $9.7 billion,largely reflecting higher
performance-based incentive compensation related to growth in revenue.

Noncompensation expense was up 4% from the prior year primarily due to the

impact of the Cazenove business partnership,while the overhead ratio declined

to 67% for 2005,from 69% in 2004.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount and ratio data)
200620052004
(f)Revenue by region
Americas$9,227
$8,258$6,898
Europe/Middle East/Africa7,3204,6274,082
Asia/Pacific
1,7301,7281,653
Total net revenue$18,277
$14,613$12,633
Selected average balances
Total assets
$647,569
$599,761$474,436
Trading assetsŒdebt and 
equity instruments275,077231,303190,119
Trading assetsŒderivative receivables
54,54155,23958,735
Loans:Loans retained(a)58,84644,81337,804
Loans held-for-sale
(b)21,74511,7556,124
Total loans80,591
56,56843,928
Adjusted assets(c)527,753456,920394,961
Equity20,75320,00017,290
Headcount23,729
19,80217,501
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs (recoveries)$(31)
$(126)$47
Nonperforming assets:Nonperforming loans(d)231594954
Other nonperforming assets3851242
Allowance for loan losses
1,0529071,547
Allowance for lending related commitments
305226305
Net charge-off (recovery) rate
(b)(0.05)%(0.28)%  0.12%
Allowance for loan losses to average loans
(b)1.792.024.09
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans(d)461187163
Nonperforming loans to average loans
0.291.052.17
Market riskŒaverage trading and
credit portfolioVAR
(e)Trading activities:
Fixed income$56
$67$74
Foreign exchange
222317
Equities313428
Commodities and other45219
Less:portfolio diversification
(70)(59)(43)
Total trading VAR84
8685
Credit portfolio VAR
151414
Less:portfolio diversification
(11)(12)(9)
Total trading and credit portfolio VAR
$88
$88$90
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
37RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES
Retail Financial Services,which includes Regional Banking,
Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance reporting segments,helps

meet the financial needs of consumers and businesses.RFS pro-

vides convenient consumer banking through the nation™s fourth-

largest branch network and third-largest ATM network.RFS is a

top-five mortgage originator and servicer,the second-largest

home equity originator,the largest noncaptive originator of auto-

mobile loans and one of the largest student loan originators.
RFS serves customers through more than 3,000 bank branches,

8,500 ATMs and 270 mortgage offices,and through relation-

ships with more than 15,000 auto dealerships and 4,300

schools and universities.More than 11,000 branch salespeople

assist customers,across a 17-state footprint from New York to

Arizona,with checking and savings accounts,mortgage,home

equity and business loans,investments and insurance.Over

1,200 additional mortgage officers provide home loans

throughout the country.
During the first quarter of 2006,RFS completed the purchase of Collegiate
Funding Services,which contributed an education loan servicing capability and

provided an entry into the Federal Family Education Loan Program consolida-

tion market.On July 1,2006,RFS sold its life insurance and annuity underwrit-

ing businesses to Protective Life Corporation.On October 1,2006,JPMorgan
Chase completed The Bank of New York transaction,significantly strengthening
RFS™s distribution network in the New York Tri-state area.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
(b)RevenueLending & deposit related fees$1,597
$1,452$1,013
Asset management,administration 
and commissions1,4221,4981,020
Securities gains (losses)(57)9(83)
Mortgage fees and related income6181,104866
Credit card income523426230
Other income55713631
Noninterest revenue4,660
4,6253,077
Net interest income10,165
10,2057,714
Total net revenue14,825
14,83010,791
Provision for credit losses561724449
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense3,6573,3372,621
Noncompensation expense4,8064,7483,937
Amortization of intangibles464500267
Total noninterest expense8,927
8,5856,825
Income before income tax expense5,337
5,5213,517
Income tax expense 
2,1242,0941,318
Net income$3,213
$3,427$2,199
Financial ratios
ROE22%26%24%
ROA1.391.511.18
Overhead ratio
605863
Overhead ratio excluding core 
deposit intangibles(a)575561
(a)Retail Financial Services uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization of core deposit
intangibles (ﬁCDIﬂ)),a non-GAAP financial measure,to evaluate the underlying expense

trends of the business.Including CDI amortization expense in the overhead ratio calculation
results in a higher overhead ratio in the earlier years and a lower overhead ratio in later
years;this method would result in an improving overhead ratio over time,all things remain-

ing equal.This non-GAAP ratio excludes Regional Banking™s core deposit intangible amorti-

zation expense related to The Bank of New York transaction and the Bank One merger of

$458 million,$496 million and $264 million for the years ended December 31,2006,2005

and 2004,respectively.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005
Net income of $3.2 billion was down by $214 million,or 6%,from the prior
year.A decline in Mortgage Banking was offset partially by improved results in

Regional Banking and Auto Finance.
Total net revenue of $14.8 billion was flat compared with the prior year.Net

interest income of $10.2 billion was down slightly due to narrower spreads on

loans and deposits in Regional Banking,lower auto loan and lease balances

and the sale of the insurance business.These declines were offset by the benefit

of higher deposit and loan balances in Regional Banking,wider loan spreads in

Auto Finance and The Bank of New York transaction.Noninterest revenue of

$4.7 billion was up $35 million,or 1%,from the prior year.Results benefited

from increases in deposit-related and branch production fees,higher automobile

operating lease revenue and The Bank of New York transaction.This benefit was

offset by lower net mortgage servicing revenue,the sale of the insurance busi-

ness and losses related to loans transferred to held-for-sale.In 2006,losses of

$233 million,compared with losses of $120 million in 2005,were recognized in

Regional Banking related to mortgage loans transferred to held-for-sale;and

losses of $50 million,compared with losses of $136 million in the prior year,

were recognized in Auto Finance related to automobile loans transferred to

held-for-sale.
The provision for credit losses of $561 million was down by $163 million from

the prior-year provision due to the absence of a $250 million special provision

for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina in the prior year,partially offset

by the establishment of additional allowance for loan losses related to loans

acquired from The Bank of New York.
Noninterest expense of $8.9 billion was up by $342 million,or 4%,primarily
due to The Bank of New York transaction,the acquisition of Collegiate

Funding Services,investments in the retail distribution network and higher

depreciation expense on owned automobiles subject to operating leases.These

increases were offset partially by the sale of the insurance business and merg-

er-related and other operating efficiencies and the absence of a $40 million

prior-year charge related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture.
2005 compared with 2004

Net income was $3.4 billion,up $1.2 billion from the prior year.The increase

was due largely to the Merger but also reflected increased deposit balances

and wider spreads,higher home equity and subprime mortgage balances,and

expense savings in all businesses.These benefits were offset partially by nar-

rower spreads on retained loan portfolios,the special provision for Hurricane

Katrina and net losses associated with portfolio loan sales in Regional
Banking and Auto Finance.
Total net revenue increased to $14.8 billion,up $4.0 billion,or 37%,due pri-
marily to the Merger.Net interest income of $10.2 billion increased by $2.5

billion as a result of the Merger,increased deposit balances and wider

spreads,and growth in retained consumer real estate loans.These benefits

were offset partially by narrower spreads on loan balances and the absence
of loan portfolios sold in late 2004 and early 2005.Noninterest revenue of

$4.6 billion increased by $1.5 billion due to the Merger,improved MSR risk
management results,higher automobile operating lease income and increased
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
38JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
39Regional BankingSelected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
(b)Noninterest revenue$3,204
$3,138$1,975
Net interest income8,7688,5315,949
Total net revenue11,972
11,6697,924
Provision for credit losses354512239
Noninterest expense6,8256,6754,978
Income before income tax expense4,793
4,4822,707
Net income$2,884
$2,780$1,697
ROE27%31%34%
ROA1.791.841.53
Overhead ratio
575763
Overhead ratio excluding core 
deposit intangibles(a)535359
(a)Regional Banking uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization of core deposit intan-
gibles (ﬁCDIﬂ)),a non-GAAP financial measure,to evaluate the underlying expense trends of

the business.Including CDI amortization expense in the overhead ratio calculation results in

a higher overhead ratio in the earlier years and a lower overhead ratio in later years;this

inclusion would result in an improving overhead ratio over time,all things remaining equal.

This non-GAAP ratio excludes Regional Banking™s core deposit intangible amortization

expense related to The Bank of New York transaction and the Bank One merger of $458 mil-

lion,$496 million and $264 million for the years ended December 31,2006,2005 and

2004,respectively.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005
Regional BankingNet income of $2.9 billion was up by $104 million from the
prior year.Total net revenue of $12.0 billion was up by $303 million,or 3%,

including the impact of a $233 million current-year loss resulting from $13.3 bil-
lion of mortgage loans transferred to held-for-sale and a prior-year loss of $120

million resulting from $3.3 billion of mortgage loans transferred to held-for-sale.

Results benefited from The Bank of New York transaction;the acquisition of

Collegiate Funding Services;growth in deposits and home equity loans;and

increases in deposit-related fees and credit card sales.These benefits were offset

partially by the sale of the insurance business,narrower spreads on loans,and a

shift to narrower-spread deposit products.The Provision for credit losses

decreased by $158 million,primarily the result of a $230 million special provision

in the prior year related to Hurricane Katrina,which was offset partially by addi-

tional Allowance for loan losses related to the acquisition of loans from The Bank

of New York and increased net charge-offs due to portfolio seasoning and deteri-

oration in subprime mortgages.Noninterest expense of $6.8 billion was up by

$150 million,or 2%,from the prior year.The increase was due to investments in

the retail distribution network,The Bank of New York transaction and the acquisi-

tion of Collegiate Funding Services,partially offset by the sale of the insurance

business,merger savings and operating efficiencies,and the absence of a $40

million prior-year charge related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture.
2005 compared with 2004

Regional Banking Net income of $2.8 billion was up by $1.1 billion from the

prior year,including the impact of the Merger,and a current-year loss of $120

million resulting from $3.3 billion of mortgage loans transferred to held-for-

sale compared with a prior-year loss of $52 million resulting from $5.2 billion

of mortgage loans transferred to held-for-sale.Growth related to the Merger

was offset partially by the impact of a $230 million special provision for credit

losses related to Hurricane Katrina.Total net revenue of $11.7 billion was up

by $3.7 billion,benefiting from the Merger,wider spreads on increased

deposit balances,higher deposit-related fees and increased loan balances.
These benefits were offset partially by 
mortgage loan spread compression duedeposit-related fees.These benefits were offset in part by losses on portfolio

loan sales in Regional Banking and Auto Finance.
The Provision for credit losses totaled $724 million,up $275 million,or 61%,
from 2004.Results included a special provision in 2005 for Hurricane Katrina

of $250 million and a release in 2004 of $87 million in the Allowance for

loan losses related to the sale of the manufactured home loan portfolio.

Excluding these items,the Provision for credit losses would have been down

$62 million,or 12%.The decline reflected reductions in the Allowance for

loan losses due to improved credit trends in most consumer lending portfolios
and the benefit of certain portfolios in run-off.These reductions were offset

partially by the Merger and higher provision expense related to subprime
mortgage loans retained on the balance sheet.Total noninterest expense rose to $8.6 billion,an increase of $1.8 billion from
the prior year,due primarily to the Merger.The increase also reflected contin-

ued investment in retail banking distribution and sales,increased depreciation

expense on owned automobiles subject to operating leases and a $40 million

charge related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture.Expense 

savings across all businesses provided a favorable offset.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount and ratios)
200620052004
(e)Selected ending balancesAssets$237,887
$224,801$226,560
Loans(a)213,504197,299202,473
Deposits214,081191,415182,372
Selected average balances
Assets$231,566
$226,368$185,928
Loans(b)203,882198,153162,768
Deposits201,127186,811137,404
Equity14,62913,3839,092
Headcount65,570
60,99859,632
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs(c)$576
$572$990
Nonperforming loans(d)1,6771,3381,161
Nonperforming assets1,9021,5181,385
Allowance for loan losses
1,3921,3631,228
Net charge-off rate
(b)0.31%0.31%0.67%
Allowance for loan losses to ending loans
(a)0.770.750.67
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans(d)89104107
Nonperforming loans to total loans0.790.680.57
(a)Includes loans held-for-sale of $32,744 million,$16,598 million and $18,022 million at
December 31,2006,2005 and 2004,respectively.These amounts are not included in the

allowance coverage ratios.
(b)Average loans include loans held-for-sale of $16,129 million,$15,675 million and $14,736
million for 2006,2005 and 2004,respectively.These amounts are not included in the net

charge-off rate.
(c)Includes $406 million of charge-offs related to the manufactured home loan portfolio in 2004.

(d )Nonperforming loans include loans held-for-sale of $116 million,$27 million and $13 mil-
lion at December 31,2006,2005 and 2004,respectively.These amounts are not included in

the allowance coverage ratios.
(e)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
40JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
to rising short-term interest rates and a flat yield curve,which contributed to
accelerated home equity loan payoffs.The Provision for credit losses increased

by $273 million,primarily the result of the $230 million special provision relat-

ed to Hurricane Katrina,a prior-year $87 million benefit associated with the

Firm™s exit of the manufactured home loan business and the Merger.These

increases were offset partially by the impact of lower net charge-offs and
improved credit trends.Noninterest expense of $6.7 billion was up by $1.7 bil-

lion as a result of the Merger,the continued investment in branch distribution

and sales,and a $40 million charge related to the dissolution of a student loan

joint venture,partially offset by merger savings and operating efficiencies.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios and 
where otherwise noted)200620052004
(h)Business metrics (in billions)Selected ending balances
Home equity origination volume$51.9
$54.1$41.8
End-of-period loans ownedHome equity85.773.967.6
Mortgage30.144.641.4
Business banking14.112.812.5
Education10.33.03.8
Other loans(a)2.72.63.6
Total end of period loans 142.9
136.9128.9
End-of-period depositsChecking 68.764.960.8
Savings 92.487.786.9
Time and other 
43.329.724.2
Total end-of-period deposits 204.4
182.3171.9
Average loans owned
Home equity78.369.942.9
Mortgage45.145.440.6
Business banking13.212.67.3
Education8.32.82.1
Other loans(a)2.63.16.5
Total average loans
(b)147.5133.899.4
Average deposits
Checking 62.861.743.7
Savings 89.987.566.5
Time and other 
37.526.116.6
Total average deposits190.2
175.3126.8
Average assets
160.8150.8110.9
Average equity
10.59.15.0
Credit data and quality statistics
30+ day delinquency rate
(c)(d)2.02%1.68%1.47%
Net charge-offsHome equity $143
$141$79
Mortgage 562519
Business banking 9110177
Other loans4828552
Total net charge-offs338
295727
Net charge-off rate
Home equity 0.18%0.20%0.18%
Mortgage0.120.060.05
Business banking0.690.801.05
Other loans0.590.938.49
Total net charge-off rate
(b)0.230.230.75
Nonperforming assets(e)(f)(g)$1,725
$1,282$1,145
(a) Includes commercial loans derived from community development activities and,prior to 
July 1,2006,insurance policy loans.
(b) Average loans include loans held-for-sale of $2.8 billion,$2.9 billion and $3.1 billion for
the years ended December 31,2006,2005 and 2004,respectively.These amounts are not

included in the net charge-off rate.
(c) Excludes delinquencies related to loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased
from Governmental National Mortgage Association (ﬁGNMAﬂ) pools that are insured by

government agencies of $1.0 billion,$0.9 billion,and $0.9 billion at December 31,2006,

2005 and 2004,respectively.These amounts are excluded as reimbursement is proceeding

normally.
(d) Excludes loans that are 30 days past due and still accruing,which are insured by govern-
ment agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $0.5 billion at

December 31,2006.The education loans past due 30 days were insignificant at December

31,2005 and 2004.These amounts are excluded as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(e) Excludes nonperforming assets related to loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans
repurchased from GNMA pools that are insured by government agencies of $1.2 billion,
$1.1 billion,and $1.5 billion at December 31,2006,2005,and 2004,respectively.These

amounts are excluded as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(f) Excludes loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing,which are insured by govern-
ment agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $0.2 billion at

December 31,2006.The Education loans past due 90 days were insignificant at December

31,2005 and 2004.These amounts are excluded as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(g)Includes nonperforming loans held-for-sale related to mortgage banking activities of $11
million,$27 million,and $13 million at December 31,2006,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(h) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Retail branch business metrics
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except 
where otherwise noted)200620052004
(c)Investment sales volume$14,882
$11,144$7,324
Number of:Branches
3,0792,6412,508
ATMs
8,5067,3126,650
Personal bankers
(a)7,5737,0675,750
Sales specialists(a)3,6143,2142,638
Active online customers (in thousands)(b)5,7154,2313,359
Checking accounts (in thousands)9,9958,7938,124
(a)Excludes employees acquired as part of The Bank of New York transaction.Mapping of the
existing Bank of New York acquired base is expected to be completed over the next year.
(b) Includes Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance online customers.

(c) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The following is a brief description of selected terms used by
Regional Banking.
ersonal bankers Œ 
Retail branch office personnel who acquire,
retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assess-
ing customer needs and recommending and selling appropriate bank-
ing products and services.
Retail branch product-specific experts who are
licensed or specifically trained to assist in the sale of investments,

mortgages,home equity lines and loans,and products tailored to 

small businesses.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
41Mortgage Banking Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,(in millions,
except ratios and where otherwise noted)
200620052004
(a)Production revenue$833
$744$     916
Net mortgage servicing revenue:Servicing revenue2,3002,1152,070
Changes in MSR asset fair value:
Due to inputs or assumptions inmodel165770(248)
Other changes in fair value
(1,440)(1,295)(1,309)
Derivative valuation adjustments 
and other(544)(494)361
Total net mortgage servicing revenue481
1,096874
Total net revenue1,314
1,8401,790
Noninterest expense1,3411,2391,364
Income (loss) before income tax expense
(27)601426
Net income (loss)$(17)
$379$269
ROENM24%17%
ROANM1.691.10
Business metrics(in billions)Third-party mortgage loans serviced
(ending)$526.7
$467.5$430.9
MSR net carrying value (ending)
7.56.55.1
Average mortgage loans held-for-sale
12.812.111.4
Average assets 
25.822.424.4
Average equity
1.71.61.6
Mortgage origination volume bychannel(in billions)Retail $40.4
$46.3$47.9
Wholesale32.834.233.5
Correspondent (including negotiatedtransactions)
45.948.564.2
Total 
$119.1
$129.0$145.6
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005
Mortgage Banking Net loss was $17 million compared with net income of

$379 million in the prior year.Total net revenue of $1.3 billion was down by

$526 million from the prior year due to a decline in net mortgage servicing
revenue offset partially by an increase in production revenue.Production rev-

enue was $833 million,up by $89 million,reflecting increased loan sales

and wider gain on sale margins that benefited from a shift in the sales mix.
Net mortgage servicing revenue,which includes loan servicing revenue,MSR

risk management results and other changes in fair value,was $481 million

compared with $1.1 billion in the prior year.Loan servicing revenue of $2.3

billion increased by $185 million on a 13% increase in third-party loans
serviced.MSR risk management revenue of negative $379 million was down

by $655 million from the prior year,including the impact of a $235 million

negative valuation adjustment to the MSR asset in the third quarter of 2006

due to changes and refinements to assumptions used in the MSR valuation

model.This result also reflected a fully hedged position in the current year.

Other changes in fair value of the MSR asset,representing runoff of the

asset against the realization of servicing cash flows,were negative $1.4 bil-

lion.Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion,up by $102 million,or 8%,due

primarily to higher compensation expense related to an increase in the num-
ber of loan officers.
Mortgage Banking origination channels comprise the following:RetailŒ Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home work directlywith a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office,the

Internet or by phone.Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage

banker by real estate brokers,home builders or other third parties.
Wholesale
Œ A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to 
a mortgage banker at the Firm.Brokers are independent loan originators

that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide
funding for loans.
Correspondent
Œ Banks,thrifts,other mortgage banks and other 
financial institutions sell closed loans to the Firm.Correspondent negotiated transactions (ﬁCNTﬂ)
Œ Mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders,banks and bank-owned mortgage companies 

sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis.These transactions

supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportu-

nities in the servicing portfolio in stable and rising rate periods.
2005 compared with 2004
Mortgage Banking Net income was $379 million compared with $269 million

in the prior year.Net revenue of $1.8 billion was up by $50 million from the

prior year.Revenue comprises production revenue and net mortgage servicing

revenue.Production revenue was $744 million,down by $172 million,due to

an 11% decrease in mortgage originations.Net mortgage servicing revenue,

which includes loan servicing revenue,MSR risk management results and other

changes in fair value,was $1.1 billion compared with $874 million in the prior

year.Loan servicing revenue of $2.1 billion increased by $45 million on an 8%

increase in third-party loans serviced.MSR risk management revenue of $276

million was up by $163 million from the prior year,reflecting positive risk man-

agement results.Other changes in fair value of the MSR asset,representing

runoff of the asset against the realization of servicing cash flows,were nega-

tive $1.3 billion.Noninterest expense of $1.2 billion was down by $125 mil-

lion,or 9%,reflecting lower production volume and operating efficiencies.
Net Mortgage servicing revenue components:
Production income 
Œ Includes net gain or loss on sales of mortgageloans,and other production related fees.
Servicing revenue
Œ Represents all revenues earned from servicingmortgage loans for third parties,including stated service fees,excess serv-

ice fees,late fees,and other ancillary fees.
Changes in MSR asset fair value due to inputs or assumptionsin model Œ Represents MSR asset fair value adjustments due to changes
in market-based inputs,such as interest rates and volatility,as well as

updates to valuation assumptions used in the valuation model.
Changes in MSR asset fair value due to other changesŒ Includeschanges in the MSR value due to servicing portfolio runoff (or time

decay).Effective January 1,2006,the Firm implemented SFAS 156,

adopting fair value for the MSR asset.For the years ended December 31,

2005 and 2004,this amount represents MSR asset amortization expense

calculated in accordance with SFAS 140.
Derivative valuation adjustments and otherŒ Changes in the fairvalue of derivative instruments used to offset the impact of changes in

market-based inputs to the MSR valuation model.
MSR risk management results
Œ Includes ﬁChanges in MSR asset fair
value due to inputs or assumptions in modelﬂand ﬁDerivative valuation

adjustments and other.ﬂ
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
42JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Auto FinanceSelected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios and
where otherwise noted)200620052004
(b)Noninterest revenue $368
$86$68
Net interest income1,1711,2351,009
Total net revenue1,539
1,3211,077
Provision for credit losses207212210
Noninterest expense761671483
Income before income tax expense571
438384
Net income$346
$268$233
ROE14%10%9%
ROA0.770.500.46
Business metrics (in billions)Auto originations volume$19.3
$18.1$23.5
End-of-period loans and lease related assetsLoans outstanding$39.3
$41.7$50.9
Lease financing receivables
1.74.38.0
Operating lease assets
1.60.9Š
Total end-of-period loans and
lease related assets42.6
46.958.9
Average loans and lease related assets
Loans outstanding(a)$39.8
$45.5$42.3
Lease financing receivables
2.96.29.0
Operating lease assets
1.30.4Š
Total average loans and lease
related assets44.0
52.151.3
Average assets
44.953.252.0
Average equity
2.42.72.5
Credit quality statistics
30+ day delinquency rate
1.72%1.66%1.64%
Net charge-offsLoans$231
$257$219
Lease financing receivables
72044
Total net charge-offs238
277263
Net charge-off rate
Loans(a)0.59%0.57%0.52%
Lease financing receivables
0.240.320.49
Total net charge-off rate
(a)0.560.540.51
Nonperforming assets$177
$236$240
(a)Average loans include loans held-for-sale of $0.5 billion,$0.7 billion and $0.2 billion for 2006,
2005 and 2004,respectively.These amounts are not included in the net charge-off rate.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005
Total net income of $346 million was up by $78 million from the prior year,

including the impact of a $50 million current-year loss and a $136 million
prior-year loss related to loans transferred to held-for-sale.Total net revenue

of $1.5 billion was up by $218 million,or 17%,reflecting higher automobile

operating lease revenue and wider loan spreads on lower loan and direct

finance lease balances.The provision for credit losses of $207 million

decreased by $5 million from the prior year.Noninterest expense of $761

million increased by $90 million,or 13%,driven by increased depreciation

expense on owned automobiles subject to operating leases,partially offset

by operating efficiencies.
2005 compared with 2004
Total net income of $268 million was up by $35 million from the prior year,

including the impact of a $136 million current-year loss related to loans
transferred to held-for-sale.Total net revenue of $1.3 billion was up by $244

million,or 23%,reflecting higher automobile operating lease revenue and a

benefit of $34 million from the sale of the $2 billion recreational vehicle
loan portfolio.These increases were offset partially by narrower spreads.

Noninterest expense of $671 million increased by $188,or 39%,driven by

increased depreciation expense on owned automobiles subject to operating

leases,offset partially by operating efficiencies.
CARD SERVICES
With more than 154 million cards in circulation and $153 billion
in managed loans,Chase Card Services is one of the nation™s

largest credit card issuers.Customers used Chase cards for over

$339 billion worth of transactions in 2006.
Chase offers a wide variety of general-purpose cards to satisfy
the needs of individual consumers,small businesses and partner

organizations,including cards issued with AARP,Amazon,

Continental Airlines,Marriott,Southwest Airlines,Sony,United

Airlines,Walt Disney Company and many other well-known

brands and organizations.Chase also issues private-label cards

with Circuit City,Kohl™s,Sears Canada and BP.
Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC,a joint venture with JPMorgan
Chase and First Data Corporation,is the largest processor of

MasterCard and Visa payments in the world,having handled

over 18 billion transactions in 2006.
JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of ﬁmanaged receivablesﬂto evaluate the
credit performance of its credit card loans,both loans on the balance sheet

and loans that have been securitized.For further information,see Explanation

and reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measures on pages

32Œ33 of this Annual Report.Managed results exclude the impact of credit

card securitizations on Total net revenue,the Provision for credit losses,net

charge-offs and loan receivables.Securitization does not change reported Net

income;however,it does affect the classification of items on the Consolidated

statements of income and Consolidated balance sheets.
Selected income statement data Œ managed basisYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
(c)RevenueCredit card income$2,587
$3,351$2,179
All other income357212192
Noninterest revenue2,944
3,5632,371
Net interest income11,801
11,8038,374
Total net revenue
(a)14,74515,36610,745
Provision for credit losses(b)4,5987,3464,851
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense1,0031,081893
Noncompensation expense3,3443,1702,485
Amortization of intangibles739748505
Total noninterest expense
(a)5,0864,9993,883
Income before income tax expense
(a)5,0613,0212,011
Income tax expense1,8551,114737
Net income$3,206
$1,907$1,274
Memo:Net securitization gains/
(amortization)$82
$56$(8)
Financial metrics
ROE23%16%17%
Overhead ratio
343336
(a)As a result of the integration of Chase Merchant Services and Paymentech merchant 
processing businesses into a joint venture,beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005,Total

net revenue,Total noninterest expense and Income before income tax expense have been

reduced to reflect the deconsolidation of Paymentech.There was no impact to Net income.
(b)2005 includes a $100 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina;the remaining
unused portion was released in 2006.
(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
43To illustrate underlying business trends, the following discussion of CS™ per-formance assumes that the deconsolidation of Paymentech had occurred as ofthe beginning of 2004. The effect of the deconsolidation would have reducedTotal net revenue, primarily in Noninterest revenue, and Total noninterest
expense, but would not have had any impact on Net income for each period.The following table presents a reconciliation of CS™ managed basis to anadjusted basis to disclose the effect of the deconsolidation of Paymentech onCS™ results for the periods presented.Reconciliation of Card Services™ managed results to an adjusted

basis to disclose the effect of the Paymentech deconsolidation
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(a)Noninterest revenue
Managed for the period$2,944
$3,563$2,371
Adjustment for Paymentech
Š(422)(276)
Adjusted Noninterest revenue$2,944
$3,141$2,095
Total net revenue
Managed for the period$14,745$15,366$10,745
Adjustment for Paymentech
Š(435)(283)
Adjusted Total net revenue$14,745
$14,931$10,462
Total noninterest expense
Managed for the period$5,086
$4,999$3,883
Adjustment for Paymentech
Š(389)(252)
Adjusted Total noninterest expense$
5,086$4,610$3,631
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005 
Net income of $3.2 billion was up by $1.3 billion,or 68%,from the prior

year.Results were driven by a lower provision for credit losses due to signifi-

cantly lower bankruptcy filings.
End-of-period managed loans of $152.8 billion increased by $10.6 billion,or
7%,from the prior year.Average managed loans of $141.1 billion increased

by $4.7 billion,or 3%,from the prior year.Compared with the prior year,

both average managed and end-of-period managed loans continued to be

affected negatively by higher customer payment rates.Management believes

that contributing to the higher payment rates are the new minimum payment

rules and a higher proportion of customers in rewards-based programs.
The current year benefited from organic growth and reflected acquisitions of
two loan portfolios.The first portfolio was the Sears Canada credit card busi-

ness,which closed in the fourth quarter of 2005.The Sears Canada portfolio™s

average managed loan balances were $2.1 billion in the current year and

$291 million in the prior year.The second purchase was the Kohl™s private

label portfolio,which closed in the second quarter of 2006.The Kohl™s portfo-

lio average and period-end managed loan balances for 2006 were $1.2 bil-

lion and $2.5 billion,respectively.
Total net managed revenue of $14.7 billion was down by $186 million,or 1%

from the prior year.Net interest income of $11.8 billion was flat to the prior

year.Net interest income benefited from an increase in average managed loan

balances and lower revenue reversals associated with lower charge-offs.These

increases were offset by attrition of mature,higher spread balances as a result

of higher payment rates and high
er cost of funds on balance growth in promo-tional,introductory and transactor loan balances,which increased due to con-

tinued investment in marketing.Noninterest revenue of $2.9 billion was down
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
44JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
by $197 million,or 6%.Interchange income increased,benefiting from 12%
higher charge volume,but was more than offset by higher volume-driven pay-

ments to partners,including Kohl™s,and increased rewards expense (both of

which are netted against interchange income).The managed provision for credit losses was $4.6 billion,down by $2.7 billion,

or 37%,from the prior year.This benefit was due to a significant decrease in

net charge-offs of $2.4 billion,reflecting the continued low level of bankruptcy

losses,partially offset by an increase in contractual net charge-offs.The provi-

sion also benefited from a release in the Allowance for loan losses in the cur-

rent year of unused reserves related to Hurricane Katrina,compared with an

increase in the Allowance for loan losses in the prior year.The managed net

charge-off rate decreased to 3.33%,down from 5.21% in the prior year.The

30-day managed delinquency rate was 3.13%,up from 2.79% in the prior year.
Noninterest expense of $5.1 billion was up $476 million,or 10%,from the

prior year due largely to higher marketing spending and acquisitions offset

partially by merger savings.
2005 compared with 2004
Net income of $1.9 billion was up $633 million,or 50%,from the prior year due
to the Merger.In addition,lower expenses driven by merger savings,stronger

underlying credit quality and higher revenue from increased loan balances and
charge volume were offset partially by the impact of increased bankruptcies.
Net managed revenue was $14.9 billion,up $4.5 billion,or 43%.Net interest

income was $11.8 billion,up $3.4 billion,or 41%,primarily due to the Merger,

and the acquisition of a private label portfolio.In addition,higher loan bal-

ances were offset partially by narrower loan spreads and the reversal of rev-
enue related to increased bankruptcy losses.Noninterest revenue of $3.1 bil-

lion was up $1.0 billion,or 50%,due to the Merger and higher interchange

income from higher charge volume,partially offset by higher volume-driven

payments to partners and higher expense related to rewards programs.
The Provision for credit losses was $7.3 billion,up $2.5 billion,or 51%,
primarily due to the Merger,and included the acquisition of a private label

portfolio.The provision also increased due to record bankruptcy-related net

charge-offs resulting from bankruptcy legislation which became effective on
October 17,2005.Finally,the Allowance for loan losses was increased in part

by the special Provision for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina.These fac-
tors were offset partially by lower contractual net 
charge-offs.Des
pite a record
level of bankruptcy losses,the net charge-off rate improved.The managed net

charge-off rate was 5.21%,down from 5.27% in the prior year.The 30-day

managed delinquency rate was 2.79%,down from 3.70% in the prior year,

driven primarily by accelerated loss 
recognition of delinquent accounts as aresult of the bankruptcy reform legislation and strong underlyingcredit quality.
Noninterest expense of $4.6 billion increased by $1.0 billion,or 27%,primarily
due to the Merger,which included the acquisition of a private label portfolio.

Merger savings,including lower processing and compensation costs were off-

set partially by higher spending on marketing.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount,ratios
and where otherwise noted)200620052004
(d)% of average managed outstandings:
Net interest income8.36%8.65%9.16%
Provision for credit losses3.265.395.31
Noninterest revenue2.092.612.59
Risk adjusted margin(a)7.195.886.45
Noninterest expense3.603.674.25
Pretax income (ROO)3.592.212.20
Net income2.271.401.39
Business metrics
Charge volume (in billions)$339.6
$301.9$193.6
Net accounts opened (in thousands)(b)45,86921,0567,523
Credit cards issued (in thousands)154,424110,43994,285
Number of registered Internet customers 22.514.613.6
Merchant acquiring business(c)Bank card volume (in billions)$660.6
$563.1$396.2
Total transactions 
18,17115,4999,049
Selected ending balancesLoans:Loans on balance sheets
$85,881
$71,738$64,575
Securitized loans 66,95070,52770,795
Managed loans$152,831
$142,265$135,370
Selected average balances
Managed assets$148,153$141,933$94,741
Loans:Loans on balance sheets
$73,740
$67,334$38,842
Securitized loans67,36769,05552,590
Managed loans$141,107
$136,389$91,432
Equity$14,100
$11,800$7,608
Headcount18,639
18,62919,598
Managed credit quality statistics 
Net charge-offs $4,698
$7,100$4,821
Net charge-off rate
3.33%5.21%5.27%
Managed delinquency ratios 
30+ days3.13%2.79%3.70%
90+ days1.501.271.72
Allowance for loan losses
$3,176
$3,274$2,994
Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans3.70%4.56%4.64%
(a)Represents Total net revenue less Provision for credit losses.
(b)2006 includes approximately 21 million accounts from the acquisition of the Kohl™s private

label portfolio in the second quarter of 2006 and approximately 9 million accounts from the

acquisition of the BP and Pier 1 Imports,Inc.p
rivate label portfolios in the fourth quarter of
2006.Fourth quarter of 2005 includes approximately 10 million accounts from the acquisi-

tion of the Sears Canada portfolio.
(c)Represents 100% of the merchant acquiring business.

(d)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Card Services.
 Charge volume
Œ Represents the dollar amount of cardmember purchases,balance transfers and cash advance activity.
 Net accounts opened
Œ Includes originations,purchases and sales.
 Merchant acquiring business
Œ Represents an entity that processes payments for merchants.JPMorgan Chase is a partner in Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC.
- Bank card volume
Œ Represents the dollar amount of 
transactions
processed for merchants.
- Total transactions
Œ Represents the number of transactions and authorizations processed for merchants.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
45The financial information presented below reconciles reported basis and managed basis to disclose the effect of securitizations
.Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(c)Income statement data(a)Credit card incomeReported basis for the period$6,096
$6,069$4,446
Securitization adjustments(3,509)(2,718)(2,267)
Managed credit card income$2,587
$3,351$2,179
All other incomeReported basis for the period$357
$212$278
Securitization adjustmentsŠŠ(86)
Managed All other income$357
$212$192
Net interest incomeReported basis for the period$6,082
$5,309$3,123
Securitization adjustments5,7196,4945,251
Managed net interest income$11,801
$11,803$8,374
Total net revenue
Reported basis for the period$12,535
$11,590$7,847
Securitization adjustments2,2103,7762,898
Managed Total net revenue$14,745
$15,366$10,745
Provision for credit lossesReported data for the period(b)$2,388
$3,570$1,953
Securitization adjustments2,2103,7762,898
Managed Provision for credit losses
(b)$4,598
$7,346$4,851
Balance sheet Œ average balances
(a)Total average assets
Reported data for the period$82,887
$74,753$43,657
Securitization adjustments65,26667,18051,084
Managed average assets$148,153
$141,933$94,741
Credit quality statistics
(a)Net charge-offsReported net charge-offs data for the period
$2,488
$3,324$1,923
Securitization adjustments2,2103,7762,898
Managed net charge-offs$4,698
$7,100$4,821
(a)For a discussion of managed basis,see the non-GAAP financial measures discussion on pages 32Œ33 of this Annual Report.
(b)2005 includes a $100 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina,which was released in 2006.

(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
COMMERCIAL BANKINGCommercial Banking serves more than 30,000 clients,including
corporations,municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-

profit entities.These clients generally have annual revenues

ranging from $10 million to $2 billion.Commercial bankers serve
clients nationally throughout the RFS footprint and in offices

located in other major markets
.Commercial Banking offers its clients industry 
knowledge,experi-
ence,a dedicated service model,comprehensive
solutions and localexpertise.The Firm™s broad platform positions CB to deliver

extensive product capabilities Œ including lending,treasury serv-

ices,investment banking and asset management Œ to meet its

clients™ U.S.and international financial needs.
On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of The Bank of
New York™s consumer,business banking and middle-market banking businesses,

adding approximately $2.3 billion in loans and $1.2 billion in deposits.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
(c)RevenueLending & deposit related fees$589
$572$438
Asset management,administration 
and commissions675730
All other income(a)417357217
Noninterest revenue1,073
986685
Net interest income2,727
2,5021,593
Total net revenue3,800
3,4882,278
Provision for credit losses(b)1607341
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense740654461
Noncompensation expense1,1791,137831
Amortization of intangibles606534
Total noninterest expense1,979
1,8561,326
Income before income tax expense1,661
1,559911
Income tax expense 
651608350
Net income$1,010
$951$561
Financial ratios
ROE18%28%27%
ROA1.751.821.72
Overhead ratio
525358
(a)IB-related and commercial card revenues are included in All other income.
(b)2005 includes a $35 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.

(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Commercial Banking operates in 14 of the top 15 U.S.metropolitan areas and
is divided into three businesses:Middle Market Banking,Mid-Corporate

Banking and Real Estate Banking.General coverage for corporate clients is pro-

vided by Middle Market Banking,which covers clients with annual revenues

generally ranging between $10 million and $500 million.Mid-Corporate

Banking covers clients with annual revenues generally ranging between $500

million and $2 billion and focuses on clients that have broader investment-
banking needs.The third segment,Real Estate Banking,serves large regional

and national real estate customers across the United States.In addition to

these three customer segments,CB offers several products to the Firm™s entire

customer base:MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
46JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Asset-based financing,syndications and collateral analysis through Chase
Business Credit.A variety of equipment finance and leasing products,with specialties in
aircraft finance,public sector,healthcare and information technology

through Chase Equipment Leasing.Alternative capital strategies that provide a broader range of financing
options,such as mezzanine and second lien loans and preferred equity,

through Chase Capital Corporation.
With a large customer base across these segments and products,manage-
ment believes the CB loan portfolio is highly diversified across a broad range

of industries and geographic locations.
2006 compared with 2005 
Net income of $1.0 billion increased by $59 million,or 6%,from the prior

year due to higher revenue,partially offset by higher expense and provision

for credit losses.
Record net revenue of $3.8 billion increased 9%,or $312 million.Net inter-
est income increased to $2.7 billion,primarily driven by higher liability bal-

ances and loan volumes,partially offset by loan spread compression and a

shift to narrower-spread liability products.Noninterest revenue was $1.1 bil-

lion,up $87 million,or 9%,due to record IB-related revenue and higher com-

mercial card revenue.
Revenue grew for each CB business compared with the prior year,driven 
by increased treasury services,investment banking and lending revenue.

Compared with the prior year,Middle Market Banking revenue of $2.5 billion

increased by $177 million,or 8%.Mid-Corporate Banking revenue of $656

million increased by $105 million,or 19%,and Real Estate Banking revenue

of $458 million increased by $24 million,or 6%.
Provision for credit losses was $160 million,up from $73 million in the prior

year,reflecting portfolio activity and the establishment of additional allowance

for loan losses related to loans acquired from The Bank of New York,partially

offset by a release of the unused portion of the special reserve established in
2005 for Hurricane Katrina.Net charge-offs were flat compared with the prior

year.Nonperforming loans declined 56%,to $121 million.
Total noninterest expense of $2.0 billion increased by $123 million,or 7%,

from last year,primarily related to incremental Compensation expense related

to SFAS 123R and increased expense resulting from higher client usage of

Treasury Services™ products.
2005 compared with 2004
Net income of $951 million was up $390 million,or 70%,from the prior

year,primarily due to the Merger.
Total net revenue of $3.5 billion increased by $1.2 billion,or 53%,primarily
as a result of the Merger.In addition to the overall increase from the Merger,

Net interest income of $2.5 billion was positively affected by wider spreads

on higher volume related to liability balances and increased loan volumes,

partially offset by narrower loan spreads.Noninterest revenue of $986 million

was positively impacted by the Merger and higher IB revenue,partially offset

by lower deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates.
Each business within CB demonstrated revenue growth over the prior year,
primarily due to the Merger.Middle Market Banking revenue was $2.4 billion,

an increase of $861 million,or 58%,over the prior year;Mid-Corporate

Banking revenue was $551 million,an increase of $183 million,or 50%;and
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
47Real Estate Banking revenue was $434 million,up $162 million,or 60%.In
addition to the Merger,revenue was higher for each business due to wider

spreads and higher volume related to liability balances and increased invest-
ment banking revenue,partially offset by narrower loan spreads.
Provision for credit losses of $73 million increased by $32 million,primarily
due to a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina,increased loan bal-

ances and refinements in the data used to estimate the allowance for credit

losses.The credit quality of the portfolio was strong with net charge-offs of

$26 million,down $35 million from the prior year,and nonperforming loans

of $272 million were down $255 million,or 48%.
Total noninterest expense of $1.9 billion increased by $530 million,or 40%,
primarily due to the Merger and to an increase in allocated unit costs for
Treasury Services™ products.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount and ratios)
200620052004
(d)Revenue by product:
Lending$1,344
$1,215$805
Treasury services
2,2432,0621,335
Investment banking253206118
Other(40)520
Total Commercial Banking revenue$3,800
$3,488$2,278
IB revenue,gross
(a)716552NA
Revenue by business:Middle Market Banking
$2,535
$2,358$1,497
Mid-Corporate Banking
656551368
Real Estate Banking458434272
Other151145141
Total Commercial Banking revenue$3,800
$3,488$2,278
Selected average balances
Total assets
$57,754
$52,358$32,547
Loans and leases(b)53,59648,11728,914
Liability balances(c)73,61366,05547,646
Equity5,7023,4002,093
Average loans by business:
Middle Market Banking
$33,225
$31,193$17,500
Mid-Corporate Banking
8,6326,3884,354
Real Estate Banking7,5666,9094,047
Other4,1733,6273,013
Total Commercial Banking loans$53,596
$48,117$28,914
Headcount4,459
4,4184,527
Credit data and quality statistics:
Net charge-offs $27
$26$61
Nonperforming loans121272527
Allowance for loan losses
1,5191,3921,322
Allowance for lending-related commitments
187154169
Net charge-off rate
(b)0.05%0.05%0.21%
Allowance for loan losses to average loans
(b)2.862.914.57
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans1,255512251
Nonperforming loans to average loans
0.230.571.82
(a)Represents the total revenue related to investment banking products sold to CB clients.
(b)Average loans include loans held-for-sale of $442 million and $283 million for 2006 and
2005,respectively.T
his information is not available for 2004.Loans held-for-sale amounts are
not included in the net charge-off rate or allowance coverage ratios.
(c)Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to onŒbalance sheet liabilities.

(d)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Commercial Banking revenues comprise the following:
Lendingincludes a variety of financing alternatives,which are often 
provided on a basis secured by receivables,inventory,equipment,real

estate or other assets.Products include:
erm loans



structures


Treasury services
includes a broad range of products and services
enabling clients to transfer,invest and manage the receipt and 

disbursement of funds,while providing the related information reporting.

These products and services include:
.S.dollar and multi-currency clearing
CH

x




Trade finance and logistics solutions


,sweeps and money market mutual funds

Investment bankingprovides clients with sophisticated capital-raising
alternatives,as well as balance sheet and risk management tools,

through:


ade debt

ed securities

ate placements


atives

oreign exchange hedges

TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES
Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in providing
transaction,investment and information services to support the

needs of institutional clients worldwide.TSS is one of the largest

cash management providers in the world and a leading global

custodian.Treasury Services provides a variety of cash manage-

ment products,trade finance and logistics solutions,wholesale

card products,and short-term liquidity management capabilities

to small and mid-sized companies,multinational corporations,

financial institutions and government entities.TS partners with

the Commercial Banking,Retail Financial Services and Asset

Management businesses to serve clients firmwide.As a result,

certain TS revenues are included in other segments™ results.

Worldwide Securities Services stores,values,clears and services

securities and alternative investments for investors and broker-

dealers;and manages Depositary Receipt programs globally.
As a result of the transaction with The Bank of New York on October 1,2006,
selected corporate trust businesses were transferred from TSS to the Corporate

segment and are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
Selected income statement data Year ending December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
(c)RevenueLending & deposit related fees$735
$731$649
Asset management,administration 
and commissions2,6922,4091,963
All other income612519361
Noninterest revenue4,039
3,6592,973
Net interest income2,070
1,8801,225
Total net revenue6,109
5,5394,198
Provision for credit losses(1)Š7Credit reimbursement to IB(a)(121)(154)(90)
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense2,1981,8741,414
Noncompensation expense1,9952,0952,254
Amortization of intangibles738158
Total noninterest expense4,266
4,0503,726
Income before income tax expense1,723
1,335375
Income tax expense 
63347298
Net income$1,090
$863$277
Financial ratios
ROE48%57%14%
Overhead ratio
707389
Pretax margin ratio
(b)28249
(a)TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the IB
credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.For a further discussion,see Credit

reimbursement on page 35 of this Annual Report.
(b)Pretax margin represents Income before income tax expense divided by Total net revenue,
which is a measure of pretax performance and another basis by which management evalu-

ates its performance and that of its competitors.
(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
48JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
2006 compared with 2005
Net income was $1.1 billion,an increase of $227 million,or 26%,from the

prior year.Earnings benefited from increased revenue,and was offset by high-

er compensation expense and the absence of prior-year charges of $58 mil-

lion (after-tax) related to the termination of a client contract.
Total net revenue was $6.1 billion,an increase of $570 million,or 10%.
Noninterest revenue was $4.0 billion,up by $380 million,or 10%.The

improvement was due primarily to an increase in assets under custody to

$13.9 trillion,which was driven by market value appreciation and new busi-

ness.Also contributing to the improvement was growth in depositary receipts,

securities lending,and global clearing,all of which were driven by a combina-

tion of increased product usage by existing clients and new business.Net

interest income was $2.1 billion,an increase of $190 million,or 10%,bene-

fiting from a 22% increase in average liability balances,partially offset by the

impact of growth in narrower-spread liability products.
Treasury Services Total net revenue of $2.8 billion was up 4%.Worldwide
Securities Services Total net revenue of $3.3 billion grew by $473 million,or

17%.TSS firmwide Total net revenue,which includes Treasury Services Total

net revenue recorded in other lines of business,grew to $8.6 billion,up by

$778 million,or 10%.Treasury Services firmwide Total net revenue grew to

$5.2 billion,an increase of $305 million,or 6%.
Total noninterest expense was $4.3 billion,up $216 million,or 5%.The
increase was due to higher compensation expense related to increased client

activity,business growth,investment in new product platforms and incremen-

tal expense related to SFAS 123R,partially offset by the absence of prior-year

charges of $93 million related to the termination of a client contract.
2005 compared with 2004
Net income was $863 million,an increase of $586 million,or 212%.
Primarilydriving the improvement in revenue were the Merger,business growth,and

widening spreads on and growth in average liability balances.
Noninterestexpense increased primarily due to the Merger and higher compensation
expense.
Results for 2005 also included charges of $58 million (after-tax) 
to terminate a client contract.Results for 2004 also included software-

impairment charges of $97 million (after-tax) and a gain of $10 million 

(after-tax) on the sale of a business.
Total net revenue of $5.5 billion increased $1.3 billion,or 32%.Net interest
income grew to $1.9 billion,up $655 million,due to wider spreads on liability

balances,a change in the corporate deposit pricing methodology in 2004 and

growth in average liability balances.Noninterest revenue of $3.7 billion

increased by $686 million,or 23%,due to product growth across TSS,the

Merger and the acquisition of Vastera.Leading the product revenue growth

was an increase in assets under custody to $10.7 trillion,primarily driven by

market value appreciation and new business,along with growth in wholesale

card,securities lending,foreign exchange,trade,clearing and ACH revenues.

Partially offsetting this growth in noninterest revenue was a decline in deposit-

related fees due to higher interest rates and the absence,in the current period,

of a gain on the sale of a business.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
49TS Total net revenue of $2.7 billion grew by $635 million,and WSS Total net
revenue of $2.8 billion grew by $706 million.TSS firmwide Total net revenue,

which includes TS Total net revenue recorded in other lines of business,grew

to $7.8 billion,up $2.1 billion,or 38%.Treasury Services firmwide Total net

revenue grew to $4.9 billion,up $1.4 billion,or 41%.
Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was $154 million,an increase
of $64 million,primarily as a result of the Merger.TSS is charged a credit

reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the Investment
Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.
Total noninterest expense of $4.1 billion was up $324 million,or 9%,due to
the Merger,increased compensation expense resulting from new business

growth and the Vastera acquisition,and charges of $93 million to terminate a

client contract.Partially offsetting these increases were higher product unit costs
chargedto 
other lines of business,primarily Commercial Banking,lower allo-
cations of Corporate segment expenses,merger savings and business efficien-

cies.The prior year included software-impairment charges of $155 million.
Treasury & Securities Services
firmwide metrics include certain TSS
product revenues and liability balances reported in other lines of business
for customers who are also customers of those lines of business.

Management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances,revenues
and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS as such

firmwide metrics capture the firmwide impact of TS™ and TSS™ products

and services.Management believes such firmwide metrics are necessary

in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.
Selected metrics Year ending December 31,
(in millions,except headcount,ratio data 
and where otherwise noted)200620052004
(g)Revenue by businessTreasury Services
$2,792
$2,695$2,060
Worldwide Securities Services
3,3172,8442,138
Total net revenue$6,109
$5,539$4,198
Business metricsAssets under custody (in billions)$13,903
$10,662$9,300
Number of:US$ ACH transactions originated (in millions)
3,5032,9661,994
Total US$ clearing volume (in thousands)
104,84695,71381,162
International electronic funds transfer 
volume (in thousands)(a)145,32589,53745,654
Wholesale check volume (in millions)3,4093,735NA
Wholesale cards issued (in thousands)(b)17,22813,20611,787
Selected balance sheets (average)

Total assets
$31,760
$28,206$24,815
Loans15,56412,3499,840
Liability balances(c)189,540154,731115,514
Equity2,2851,5251,989
Headcount25,423
22,20720,467
TSS firmwide metricsTreasury Services firmwide revenue
(d)$5,242
$4,937$3,508
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide revenue(d)8,5597,7815,646
Treasury Services firmwide overhead ratio
(e)56%58%65%
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide overhead ratio
(e)626578
Treasury Services firmwide liability 
balances (average)
(f)$162,020$139,579$102,785
Treasury & Securities Services firmwide 
liability balances(f)262,678220,781163,169
(a)International electronic funds transfer includes non-US$ ACH and clearing volume.
(b)Wholesale cards issued include domestic commercial card,stored value card,prepaid card,
and government electronic benefit card products.
(c)Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to on-balance sheet liabilities.

(d) Firmwide revenue includes TS revenue recorded in the CB,Regional Banking and AM lines of

business (see below) and excludes FX revenues recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity.
(in millions)200620052004
(g)Treasury Services revenue reported in CB
$2,243
$2,062$1,335
Treasury Services revenue reported in
other lines of business
207180113
TSS firmwide FX revenue,
which includes FX revenue recorded in TSS and FX revenue associ-
ated with TSS customers who are FX customers of the IB,was $445 million,$382 million

and $320 million for the years ended December 31,2006,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(e)Overhead ratios have been calculated based upon firmwide revenues and TSS and TS expens-
es,respectively,including those allocated to certain other lines of business.FX revenues and

expenses recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity are not included in this ratio.
(f) Firmwide liability balances include TS™ liability balances recorded in certain other lines of
business.Liability balances associated with TS customers who are also customers of the CB

line of business are not included in TS liability balances.
(g)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
ASSET MANAGEMENT With assets under supervision of $1.3 trillion,AM is a global
leader in investment and wealth management.AM clients include

institutions,retail investors and high-net-worth individuals in

every major market throughout the world.AM offers global

investment management in equities,fixed income,real estate,

hedge funds,private equity and liquidity,including both money-

market instruments and bank deposits.AM also provides trust

and estate and banking services to high-net-worth clients,and

retirement services for corporations and individuals.The majority

of AM™s client assets are in actively managed portfolios.
Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
(b)RevenueAsset management,administration 
and commissions$5,295
$4,189$3,140
All other income521394243
Noninterest revenue5,816
4,5833,383
Net interest income971
1,081796
Total net revenue6,787
5,6644,179
Provision for credit losses(28)(56)(14)
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense2,7772,1791,579
Noncompensation expense1,7131,5821,502
Amortization of intangibles889952
Total noninterest expense4,578
3,8603,133
Income before income tax expense2,237
1,8601,060
Income tax expense 
828644379
Net income$1,409
$1,216$681
Financial ratios
ROE40%51%17%
Overhead ratio
676875
Pretax margin ratio
(a)333325
(a)Pretax margin represents Income before income tax expense divided by Total net revenue,
which is a measure of pretax performance and another basis by which management evaluates

its performance and that of its competitors.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005 
Net income was a record $1.4 billion,up by $193 million,or 16%,from the
prior year.Improved results were driven by increased revenue offset partially

by higher performance-based compensation expense,incremental expense

from the adoption of SFAS 123R and the absence of a tax credit recognized in

the prior year.
Total net revenue was a record $6.8 billion,up by $1.1 billion,or 20%,from
the prior year.Noninterest revenue,principally fees and commissions,of $5.8

billion was up by $1.2 billion,or 27%.This increase was due largely to

increased assets under management and higher performance and placement

fees.Net interest income was $971 million,down by $110 million,or 10%,

from the prior year.The decline was due primarily to narrower spreads on

deposit products and the absence of BrownCo,partially offset by higher

deposit and loan balances.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
50JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Institutional revenue grew 41%,to $2.0 billion,due to net asset inflows and
higher performance fees.Private Bank revenue grew 13%,to $1.9 billion,due

to increased placement activity,higher asset management fees and higher

deposit balances,partially offset by narrower average spreads on deposits.

Retail revenue grew 22%,to $1.9 billion,primarily due to net asset inflows,

partially offset by the sale of BrownCo.Private Client Services revenue

decreased 1%,to $1.0 billion,as higher deposit and loan balances were more

than offset by narrower average deposit and loan spreads.
Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $28 million compared with a bene-
fit of $56 million in the prior year.The current-year benefit reflects a high level

of recoveries and stable credit quality.
Total noninterest expense of $4.6 billion was up by $718 million,or 19%,
from the prior year.The increase was due to higher performance-based com-

pensation,incremental expense related to SFAS 123R,increased salaries and

benefits related to business growth,and higher minority interest expense

related to Highbridge,partially offset by the absence of BrownCo.
2005 compared with 2004

Net income of $1.2 billion was up $535 million from the prior year due to

the Merger and increased revenue,partially offset by higher compensation

expense.
Total net revenue was $5.7 billion,up $1.5 billion,or 36%.Noninterest rev-
enue,primarily fees and commissions,of $4.6 billion was up $1.2 billion,

principally due to the Merger,the acquisition of a majority interest in

Highbridge in 2004,net asset inflows and global equity market appreciation.
Net interest income of $1.1 billion was up $285 million,primarily due to the

Merger,higher deposit and loan balances,partially offset by narrower deposit

spreads.
Private Bank revenue grew 9%,to $1.7 billion.Retail revenue grew 30%,to

$1.5 billion.Institutional revenue grew 57%,to $1.4 billion,due to the acquisi-

tion of a majority interest in Highbridge.Private Client Services revenue grew

88%,to $1.0 billion.
Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $56 million,compared with a 

benefit of $14 million in the prior year,due to lower net charge-offs and

refinements in the data used to estimate the allowance for credit losses.
Total noninterest expense of $3.9 billion increased by $727 million,or 23%,
reflecting the Merger,the acquisition of Highbridge and increased compensa-

tion expense related primarily to higher performance-based incentives.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
51Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount,ranking 
data,and where otherwise noted)
200620052004
(e)Revenue by client segment
Institutional $1,972
$1,395$891
Retail1,8851,5441,184
Private Bank
1,9071,6891,554
Private Client Services
1,0231,036550
Total net revenue$6,787
$5,664$4,179
Business metricsNumber of:Client advisors1,5061,4841,377
Retirement planning services participants1,362,0001,299,000918,000
% of customer assets in 4 & 5 Star Funds(a)58%46%48%
% of AUM in 1
stand 2ndquartiles:(b)1 year836966
3 years776871
5 years797468
Selected average balance sheets data
Total assets
$43,635
$41,599$37,751
Loans(c)26,50726,61021,545
Deposits(c)(d)
50,60742,12332,431
Equity3,5002,4003,902
Headcount13,298
12,12712,287
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs (recoveries)$(19)
$23$72
Nonperforming loans3910479
Allowance for loan losses
121132216
Allowance for lending-related commitments
645Net charge-off (recovery) rate
(0.07)%0.09%0.33%
Allowance for loan losses to average loans
0.460.501.00
Allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans
310127273
Nonperforming loans to average loans
0.150.390.37
(a)Derived from Morningstar for the United States;Micropal for the United Kingdom,
Luxembourg,Hong Kong and Taiwan;and Nomura for Japan.
(b)Quartile rankings sourced from Lipper for the United States and Taiwan;Micropal for the
United Kingdom,Luxembourg,Hong Kong and Taiwan;and Nomura for Japan.
(c)The sale of BrownCo,which closed on November 30,2005,included $3.0 billion in both
loans and deposits.
(d)Reflects the transfer in 2005 of certain consumer deposits from RFS to AM.

(e)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
AM™s client segments comprise the following:
Institutionalbrings comprehensive global investment services Œ includingasset management,pension analytics,asset-liability management and

active risk budgeting strategies Œ to corporate and public institutions,

endowments,foundations,not-for-profit organizations and governments

worldwide.
Retailprovides worldwide investment management services and retire-ment planning and administration through third-party and direct distribu-

tion of a full range of investment vehicles.
The 
Private Bank addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-
high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide,including investment

management,capital markets and risk management,tax and estate plan-

ning,banking,capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services.
Private Client Services offers high-net-worth individuals,families and
business owners in the United States comprehensive wealth management
solutions,including investment management,capital markets and risk man-

agement,tax and estate planning,banking,and specialty-wealth advisory

services.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
52JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Assets under supervision(a) (in billions)As of or for the year ended December 31,200620052004
Assets by asset classLiquidity(b)$311
$238$232
Fixed income 175165171
Equities & balanced
427370326
Alternatives1007462
Total Assets under management1,013
847791
Custody/brokerage/administration/deposits
334302315
Total Assets under supervision $1,347
$1,149$1,106
Assets by client segment Institutional(c)$538
$481$466
Retail(c)259169133
Private Bank 
159145139
Private Client Services 
575253
Total Assets under management $1,013
$847$791
Institutional(c)$539
$484$487
Retail(c)343245221
Private Bank 
357318304
Private Client Services 
10810294
Total Assets under supervision $1,347
$1,149$1,106
Assets by geographic region
U.S./Canada 
$630
$562$554
International383285237
Total Assets under management$1,013
$847$791
U.S./Canada 
$889
$805$815
International458344291
Total Assets under supervision$1,347
$1,149$1,106
Mutual fund assets by asset classLiquidity$255
$182$183
Fixed income464541
Equities206150104
Total mutual fund assets$507
$377$328
Assets under management rollforward
(d)Beginning balance,January 1
$847
$791$561
Flows:Liquidity4483Fixed income11Š(8)
Equities,balanced and alternative
342414
Acquisitions/divestitures(e)ŠŠ183
Market/performance/other impacts
772438
Ending balance,December 31$1,013
$847$791
Assets under supervision rollforward
(d)Beginning balance,January 1
$1,149
$1,106$764
Net asset flows1024942
Acquisitions/divestitures
(f)Š(33)221
Market/performance/other impacts
962779
Ending balance,December 31$1,347
$1,149$1,106
(a)Excludes Assets under management of American Century Companies,Inc.
(b)2006 data reflects the reclassification of $19 billion of assets under management into liq-
uidity from other asset classes.Prior period data were not restated.
(c)In 2006,assets under management of $22 billion from Retirement planning services has
been reclassified from the Institutional client segment to the Retail client segment in order
to be consistent with the revenue by client segment reporting.(d)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(e)Reflects the Merger with Bank One ($176 billion) and the acquisition of a majority interest
in Highbridge ($7 billion) in 2004.(f)Reflects the sale of BrownCo ($33 billion) in 2005,and the Merger with Bank One 
($214 billion) and the acquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge ($7 billion) in 2004.Assets under supervision2006 compared with 2005
Assets under supervision (ﬁAUSﬂ) were $1.3 trillion,up 17%,or $198 billion,

from the prior year.Assets under management (ﬁAUMﬂ) were $1.0 trillion,up

20%,or $166 billion,from the prior year.The increase was the result of net

asset inflows in the Retail segment,primarily in equity-related products,

Institutional segment flows,primarily in liquidity products,and market appre-

ciation.Custody,brokerage,administration and deposit balances were $334

billion,up by $32 billion.The Firm also has a 43% interest in American

Century Companies,Inc.,whose AUM totaled $103 billion and $101 billion at

December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
2005 compared with 2004
AUS at December 31,2005,were $1.1 trillion,up 4%,or $43 billion,from

the prior year despite a $33 billion reduction due to the sale of BrownCo.

AUM were $847 billion,up 7%.The increase was primarily the result of net

asset inflows in equity-related products and global equity market apprecia-

tion.Custody,brokerage,administration,and deposits were $302 billion,

down $13 billion due to a $33 billion reduction from the sale of BrownCo.

The Firm also has a 43% interest in American Century Companies,Inc.,

whose AUM totaled $101 billion and $98 billion at December 31,2005 and

2004,respectively.
CORPORATE
The Corporate sector comprises Private Equity,Treasury,corpo-
rate staff units and expenses that are centrally managed.

Private Equity includes the JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity

Partners businesses.Treasury manages the structural interest

rate risk and investment portfolio for the Firm.The corporate

staff units include Central Technology and Operations,Internal

Audit,Executive Office,Finance,Human Resources,Marketing

& Communications,Office of the General Counsel,Corporate

Real Estate and General Services,Risk Management,and

Strategy and Development.Other centrally managed expenses

include the Firm™s occupancy and pension-related expenses,net

of allocations to the business.
On August 1,2006,the buyout and growth equity professionals of JPMorgan
Partners (ﬁJPMPﬂ) formed an independent firm,CCMP Capital,LLC (ﬁCCMPﬂ),

and the venture professionals separately formed an independent firm,

Panorama Capital,LLC (ﬁPanoramaﬂ).The investment professionals of CCMP

and Panorama continue to manage the former JPMP investments pursuant to a

management agreement with the Firm.On October 1,2006,the Firm completed the exchange of selected corporate trust

businesses,including trustee,paying agent,loan agency and document manage-

ment services,for the consumer,business banking and middle-market banking

businesses of The Bank of New York.These corporate trust businesses,which were

previously reported in TSS,are now reported as discontinued operations for all

periods presented within Corporate.The related balance sheet and income state-

ment activity were transferred to the Corporate segment commencing with the

second quarter of 2006.Periods prior to the second quarter of 2006 have been

revised to reflect this transfer.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(f)RevenuePrincipal transactions
$1,175
$1,524$1,542
Securities gains (losses)(608)(1,487)332
All other income(a)4851,583109
Noninterest revenue1,052
1,6201,983
Net interest income(1,044)
(2,756)(1,214)
Total net revenue8
(1,136)769
Provision for credit losses(b)(1)10748
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense2,6263,1482,426
Noncompensation expense(c)2,3515,9627,418
Merger costs3057221,365
Subtotal5,2829,83211,209
Net expenses allocated to other businesses
(4,141)(4,505)(4,839)
Total noninterest expense1,141
5,3276,370
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before income tax expense(1,132)
(6,473)(6,349)
Income tax expense (benefit)
(d)(1,179)(2,690)(2,661)
Income (loss) from continuing operations
47(3,783)(3,688)
Income from discontinuedoperations
(e)795229206
Net income (loss)$842
$(3,554)$(3,482)
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
53(a)Includes a gain of $103 million in 2006 related to the initial public offering of Mastercard,
and a gain of $1.3 billion on the sale of BrownCo in 2005.(b)2004 includes $858 million related to accounting policy conformity adjustments in connec-
tion with the Merger.
(c)Includes insurance recoveries related to material legal proceedings of $512 million and
$208 million in 2006 and 2005,respectively.Includes litigation reserve charges of $2.8 bil-

lion and $3.7 billion in 2005 and 2004,respectively.
(d)Includes tax benefits recognized upon resolution of tax audits.
(e) Includes a $622 million gain from exiting the corporate trust business in the fourth quarter
of 2006.(f) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
2006 compared with 2005
Net income was $842 million compared with a net loss of $3.6 billion in the

prior year.In comparison with the prior year,Private Equity earnings was $627

million,down from $821 million;Treasury net loss was $560 million compared

with a net loss of $2.0 billion;the net loss in Other Corporate (including

Merger costs) was $20 million compared with a net loss of $2.6 billion;and

the Net income from discontinued operations was $795 million compared with

$229 million.Total net revenue was $8 million,as compared with a negative $1.1 billion in
the prior year.Net interest income was a negative $1.0 billion compared with

negative $2.8 billion in the prior year.Treasury was the primary driver of the

improvement,with Net interest income of negative $140 million compared

with negative $1.7 billion in the prior year,benefiting primarily from an

improvement in Treasury™s net interest spread and an increase in available-for-

sale securities.Noninterest revenue was $1.1 billion compared with $1.6 bil-

lion,reflecting the absence of the $1.3 billion gain on the sale of BrownCo

last year and lower Private Equity gains of $1.3 billion compared with gains of

$1.7 billion in the prior year.These declines were offset by $619 million in

securities losses in Treasury compared with securities losses of $1.5 billion in

the prior year and a gain of $103 million related to the sale of Mastercard
shares in its initial public offering in the current year.
Total noninterest expense was $1.1 billion,down by $4.2 billion from $5.3 billion

in the prior year.Insurance recoveries relating to certain material litigation were

$512 million in the current year,while the prior-year results included a material lit-

igation charge of $2.8 billion,and related insurance recoveries of $208 million.

Prior-year expense included a $145 million cost due to the accelerated vesting of

stock options.Merger costs were $305 million compared with $722 million in the

prior year.
Discontinued operations include the results of operations of selected corporate

trust businesses sold to The Bank of New York on October 1,2006.Prior to the

sale,the selected corporate trust businesses produced $173 million of Net

income in the current year compared with Net income of $229 million in the
prior year.Net income from discontinued operations for 2006 also included a

one-time gain of $622 million related to the sale of these businesses.
2005 compared with 2004
Total net revenue was a negative $1.1 billion compared with Total net revenue

of $769 millionin the prior year.Noninterest revenue of $1.6 billion decreased

by $363 million and included securities losses of $1.5 billion due to the fol-lowing:repositioning of the Treasury investment portfolio to manage exposure

to interest rates;the gain on the sale of BrownCo of $1.3 billion;and the

increase in private equity gains of $262 million.For further discussion on the

sale of BrownCo,see Note 2 on page 97 of this Annual Report.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
54JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Private equity portfolio2006 compared with 2005 
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio declined by $95 million to
$6.1 billion as of December 31,2006.This decline was due primarily to sales

offset partially by new investment activity.The portfolio represented 8.6% of

the Firm™s stockholders™ equity less goodwill at December 31,2006,down

from 9.7% at December 31,2005.
2005 compared with 2004

The carrying value of the private equity portfolio declined by $1.3 billion to

$6.2 billion as of December 31,2005.This decline was primarily the result of

sales and recapitalizations of direct investments.The portfolio represented

9.7% and 12% of JPMorgan Chase™s stockholders™ equity less goodwill at

December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
Selected income statement and balance sheet data Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(d)Treasury
Securities gains (losses)(a)$(619)
$(1,486)$339
Investment portfolio (average)
63,36146,52057,776
Investment portfolio (ending)82,09130,74164,949
Private equity gains (losses)Realized gains$1,223
$1,969$1,423
Write-ups / (write-downs)(73)(72)(192)
Mark-to-market gains (losses)
72(338)164
Total direct investments1,222
1,5591,395
Third-party fund investments 
7713234
Total private equity gains (losses)
(b)1,2991,6911,429
Private equity portfolio information(c)Direct investments
Public securities
Carrying value
$587
$479$1,170
Cost451403744
Quoted public value
8316831,758
Private direct securities
Carrying value
4,6925,0285,686
Cost5,7956,4637,178
Third-party fund investments
Carrying value
802669641
Cost1,0801,0031,042
Total private equity portfolio
Carrying value
$6,081
$6,176$7,497
Cost$7,326
$7,869$8,964
(a)Gains/losses reflect repositioning of the Treasury investment securities portfolio.Excludes
gains/losses on securities used to manage risk associated with MSRs.
(b)Included in Principal transactions.

(c)For further information on the Firm™s policies regarding the valuation of the private equity
portfolio,see Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm on pages 84Œ85and Note 4 on

pages 98Œ99 of this Annual Report,respectively.
(d)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Net interest income was a loss of $2.8 billion compared with a loss of 
$1.2 billion in the prior year.Actions and policies adopted in conjunction 

with the Merger and the repositioning of the Treasury investment portfolio

were the main drivers of the increased loss.
Total noninterest expense was $5.3 billion,down $1.1 billion from $6.4 billion
in the prior year.Material litigation charges were $2.8 billion compared with

$3.7 billion in the prior year.Merger costs were $722 million compared with

$1.4 billion in the prior year.These decreases were offset primarily by the cost

of accelerated vesting of certain employee stock options.
On September 15,2004,JPMorgan Chase and IBM announced the Firm™s plans
to reintegrate the portions of its technology infrastructure Œ including data

centers,help desks,distributed computing,data networks and voice networks

Œ that were previously outsourced to IBM.In January 2005,approximately

3,100 employees and 800 contract employees were transferred to the Firm.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount)
200620052004
(e)Total net revenue
Private equity 
$1,142
$1,521$1,211
Treasury
(797)(3,278)81
Corporate other
(a)(337)621(523)
Total net revenue$8
$(1,136)$769
Net income (loss)Private equity 
$627
$821$602
Treasury
(560)(2,028)(106)
Corporate other
(a)(b)(c)169(2,128)(3,337)
Merger costs(189)(448)(847)
Income (loss) from continuing operations47
(3,783)(3,688)
Income from discontinued operations 
(after-tax)
(d)795229206
Total net income (loss)$842
$(3,554)$(3,482)
Headcount23,24230,66626,956
(a)Includes a gain of $64 million ($103 million pretax) in 2006 related to the initial public
offering of Mastercard,and a gain of $752 million ($1.3 billion pretax) on the sale of

BrownCo in 2005.(b)Includes insurance recoveries (after-tax) related to material legal proceedings of $317 mil-
lion and $129 million in 2006 and 2005,respectively.Includes litigation reserve charges

(after-tax) of $1.7 billion and $2.3 billion in 2005 and 2004,respectively.
(c)Includes tax benefits recognized upon resolution of tax audits.
(d) Includes a $622 million gain from exiting the corporate trust business in the fourth quarter of
2006.(e) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
55BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS
Selected balance sheet dataDecember 31,(in millions)
20062005AssetsCash and due from banks$40,412
$36,670
Deposits with banks 13,54721,661Federal funds sold and securities purchased 
under resale agreements140,524133,981Securities borrowed73,68874,604Trading assets:
Debt and equity instruments310,137248,590Derivative receivables
55,60149,787Securities:Available-for-sale
91,91747,523Held-to-maturity5877Interests in purchased receivables
Œ29,740Loans,net of Allowance for loan losses
475,848412,058Other receivables  
27,58527,643Goodwill  45,18643,621Other intangible assets14,85214,559All other assets 62,16558,428Total assets$1,351,520
$1,198,942
LiabilitiesDeposits$638,788
$554,991
Federal funds purchased and securities sold 
under repurchase agreements162,173125,925Commercial paper and other borrowed funds36,90224,342Trading liabilities:
Debt and equity instruments90,48894,157Derivative payables
57,46951,773Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities145,630119,886Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
16,18442,197All other liabilities88,09678,460Total liabilities1,235,730
1,091,731Stockholders™ equity115,790
107,211Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity$1,351,520
$1,198,942
Balance sheet overview At December 31,2006,the Firm™s total assets were $1.4 trillion,an increase 
of $152.6 billion,or 13%,from December 31,2005.Total liabilities were 

$1.2 trillion,an increase of $144.0 billion,or 13%,from December 31,2005.

Stockholders™ equity was $115.8 billion,an increase of $8.6 billion,or 8% from

December 31,2005.The following is a discussion of the significant changes in

balance sheet items during 2006.Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements;
Securities borrowed;Federal funds purchased and securities sold

under repurchase agreements;and Commercial paper and Other bor-

rowed funds
The Firm utilizes Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agree-
ments,Securities borrowed,Federal funds purchased and securities sold under

repurchase agreements and Commercial paper and other borrowed funds as
part of its liquidity management activities,in order to manage the Firm™s cash

positions,risk-based capital requirements,and to maximize liquidity access and

minimize funding costs.In 2006,Federal funds sold increased in connection

with higher levels of funds that were available for short-term investments.
Securities sold under repurchase agreements and Commercial paper and otherborrowed funds increased primarily due to short-term requirements to fund
trading positions and AFS securities inventory levels,as well as the result of

growth in volume related to sweeps and other cash management products.For

additional information on the Firm™s Liquidity risk management,see pages

62Œ63 of this Annual Report.
Trading assets and liabilities Œ debt and equity instruments
The Firm uses debt and equity trading instruments for both market-making and

proprietary risk-taking activities.These instruments consist primarily of fixed

income securities (including government and corporate debt),equity securities

and convertible cash instruments,as well as physical commodities.The increase

in trading assets over December 31,2005,was due primarily to the more favor-

able capital markets environment,with growth in client-driven market-making

activities across both products (such as interest rate,credit and equity markets)

and regions.For additional information,refer to Note 4 on page 98 of this

Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities Œ derivative receivables and payables
The Firm utilizes various interest rate,foreign exchange,equity,credit and com-

modity derivatives for market-making,proprietary risk-taking and risk-manage-

ment purposes.The increases in derivative receivables and payables from

December 31,2005,primarily stemmed from an increase in credit derivatives

and equity contracts.For additional information,refer to Derivative contracts

and Note 4 on pages 69Œ72 and 98,respectively,of this Annual Report.
SecuritiesThe Firm™s securities portfolio,almost all of which is classified as AFS,is used

primarily to manage the Firm™s exposure to interest rate movements.The AFS

portfolio increased by $44.4 billion from the 2005 year end,primarily due to net

purchases in the Treasury investment securities portfolio,in connection with

repositioning the Firm™s portfolio to manage exposure to interest rates.For addi-

tional information related to securities,refer to the Corporate segment discus-

sion and to Note 10 on pages 53Œ54 and 108Œ111,respectively,of this Annual

Report.Interests in purchased receivables and Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEsInterests in purchased receivables and Beneficial interests issued by consolidat-

ed VIEs declined from December 2005,as a result of the restructuring during

the second quarter of 2006 of Firm-administered multi-seller conduits.The

restructuring resulted in the deconsolidation of $29 billion of Interests in pur-
chased receivables,$3 billion of Loans and $1 billion of AFS securities,as well

as a corresponding decrease in Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs.

For additional information related to multi-seller conduits,refer to OffŒbalance

sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations on pages 59Œ60 and

Note 15 on pages 118Œ120 of this Annual Report.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
56JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
LoansThe Firm provides loans to customers of all sizes,from large corporate clients to
individual consumers.The Firm manages the risk/reward relationship of each

portfolio and discourages the retention of loan assets that do not generate a

positive return above the cost of risk-adjusted capital.The $63.8 billion increase

in loans,net of the Allowance for loan losses,from December 31,2005,was due

primarily to an increase of $33.6 billion in the wholesale portfolio,mainly in the

IB,reflecting an increase in capital markets activity,including financings associat-

ed with client acquisitions,securitizations and loan syndications.CB loans also

increased as a result of organic growth and The Bank of New York transaction.

The $30.3 billion increase in consumer loans was due largely to increases in CS

(reflecting strong organic growth,a reduction in credit card securitization activity,

and the acquisitions of private-label credit card portfolios),increases in education

loans resulting from the 2006 first-quarter acquisition of Collegiate Funding
Services,and as a result of The Bank of New York transaction.These increases

were offset partially by a decline in auto loans and leases.The Allowance for

loan losses increased $189 million,or 3%,from December 31,2005.For a more

detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the Allowance for loan losses,refer

to Credit risk management on pages 64Œ76 of this Annual Report.
Goodwill
Goodwill arises from business combinations and represents the excess of the
cost of an acquired entity over the net fair value amounts assigned to assets

acquired and liabilities assumed.The $1.6 billion increase in Goodwill primarily

resulted from the addition of $1.8 billion of goodwill from The Bank of New

York transaction in the 2006 fourth quarter and from the 2006 first-quarter

acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services.Partially offsetting the increase in

Goodwill were reductions of $402 million resulting from the sale of selected
corporate trust businesses to The Bank of New York;purchase accounting

adjustments associated with the 2005 fourth-quarter acquisition of the Sears
Canada credit card business;the 2006 second quarter sale of the insurance

business;and a reduction related to reclassifying net assets of a subsidiary as

held-for-sale.For additional information,see Notes 3 and 16 on pages 97 and

121Œ123 of this Annual Report.
Other intangible assetsThe Firm™s other intangible assets consist of mortgage servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ),
purchased credit card relationships,other credit card
Œrelated intangibles,core
deposit intangibles,and all other intangibles.The $293 million increase in Other

intangible assets primarily reflects higher MSRs due to growth in the servicing
portfolio,the addition of core deposit intangibles from The Bank of New York

transaction and purchase accounting adjustments related to the Sears Canada

credit card business.Partially offsetting these increases were the amortization of

intangibles and a $436 million reduction in Other intangible assets as a result of
the sale of selected corporate trust businesses to The Bank of New York.For addi-

tional information on MSRs and other intangible assets,see Notes 3 and 16 on

pages 97 and 121Œ123 of this Annual Report.
Deposits
The Firm™s deposits represent a liability to customers,both retail and wholesale,

for funds held on their behalf.Deposits are generally classified by location (U.S.

and non-U.S.),whether they are interest- or noninterest-bearing,and by type

(demand,money market deposit accounts (ﬁMMDAsﬂ),savings,time,negotiable

order of withdrawal (ﬁNOWﬂ) accounts),and help provide a stable and consis-

tent source of funding to the Firm.Deposits increased by 15% from December

31,2005.Growth in retail deposits reflected The Bank of New York transaction,

new account acquisitions,and the ongoing expansion of the retail branch distri-

bution network.Wholesale deposits increased driven by growth in business vol-

umes.Partially offsetting the growth in wholesale deposits was a $24.0 billion

decline as a result of the sale of selected corporate trust businesses to The Bank

of New York.For more information on deposits,refer to the RFS segment discus-

sion and the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 38Œ42 and 62Œ63,
respectively,of this Annual Report.For more information on wholesale liability

balances,including deposits,refer to the CB and TSS segment discussions on

pages 46Œ47 and 48Œ49,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities
The Firm utilizes Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities as

part of its liquidity and capital management activities.Long-term debt and trust

preferred capital debt securities increased by $25.7 billion,or 21%,from

December 31,2005,primarily due to net new issuances.Continued strong for-

eign investor participation in the global corporate markets allowed JPMorgan

Chase to identify attractive opportunities globally to further diversify its funding

and capital sources.During 2006,JPMorgan Chase issued approximately $56.7

billion of long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities.These

issuances were offset partially by $34.3 billion of long-term debt and trust pre-
ferred capital debt securities that matured or were redeemed.For additional

information on the Firm™s long-term debt activities,see the Liquidity risk man-

agement discussion on pages 62Œ63 and Note 19 on pages 124Œ125 of this
Annual Report.Stockholders™ equity
Total stockholders™ equity increased by $8.6 billion,or 8%,from year-end 2005

to $115.8 billion at December 31,2006.The increase was primarily the result of

Net income for 2006 and net shares issued under the Firm™s employee stock-

based compensation plans,offset partially by the declaration of cash dividends,

stock repurchases,a charge of $1.1 billion to Accumulated other comprehensive

income (loss) related to the prospective adoption,as required on December 31,

2006,of SFAS 158 for the Firm™s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans,and

the redemption of preferred stock.For a further discussion of capital,see the

Capital management section that follows.For a further discussion of SFAS 158,

see Note 7 on pages 100Œ105 of this Annual Report.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
57CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Firm™s capital management framework is intended to ensure that there is
capital sufficient to support the underlying risks of the Firm™s business activi-

ties,as measured by economic risk capital,and to maintain ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ

status under regulatory requirements.In addition,the Firm holds capital above

these requirements in amounts deemed appropriate to achieve management™s

regulatory and debt rating objectives.The process of assigning equity to the

lines of business is integrated into the Firm™s capital framework and is over-

seen by ALCO.
Line of business equityThe Firm™s framework for allocating capital is based upon the following objectives:

integrate firmwide capital management activities with capital management
activities within each of the lines of business;and

ability with peer firms for each of the lines of business.
Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes the busi-
ness would require if it were operating independently,incorporating sufficient

capital to address economic risk measures,regulatory capital requirements and

capital levels for similarly rated peers.Return on equity is measured and internal

targets for expected returns are established as a key measure of a business seg-

ment™s performance.
Effective January 1,2006,the Firm refined its methodology for allocating capital

to the lines of business.As a result of this refinement,RFS,CS,CB,TSS and AM

had higher amounts of capital allocated to them commencing in the first quarter
of 2006.The revised methodology considers for each line of business,among

other things,goodwill associated with such line of business™ acquisitions since the

Merger.In management™s view,the revised methodology assigns responsibility to

the lines of business to generate returns on the amount of capital supporting

acquisition-related goodwill.As part of this refinement in the capital allocation

methodology,the Firm assigned to the Corporate segment an amount of equity

capital equal to the then-current book value of goodwill from and prior to the

Merger.As prior periods have not been revised to reflect the new capital alloca-

tions,capital allocated to the respective lines of business for 2006 is not compara-

ble to prior periods;and certain business metrics,such as ROE,are not compara-

ble to the current presentation.The Firm may revise its equity capital-allocation

methodology again in the future.
In accordance with SFAS 142,the lines of business perform the required goodwill
impairment testing.For a further discussion of goodwill and impairment testing,

see Critical accounting estimates and Note 16 on pages 83Œ85 and 121Œ123,
respectively,of this Annual Report.
Line of business equityYearly Average
(in billions)20062005Investment Bank$20.8
$20.0
Retail Financial Services14.613.4Card Services14.111.8Commercial Banking5.73.4Treasury & Securities Services
2.31.5Asset Management3.52.4Corporate
(a)49.753.0Total common stockholders™ equity$110.7
$105.5
(a)2006 and 2005 include $41.7 billion and $43.1 billion,respectively,of equity to offset
goodwill and $8.0 billion and $9.9 billion,respectively,of equity,primarily related to

Treasury,Private Equity and the Corporate Pension Plan.
Economic risk capitalJPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the risks underlyingthe Firm™s business activities,utilizing internal risk-assessment methodologies.

The Firm assigns economic capital primarily based upon four risk factors:

credit risk,market risk,operational risk and private equity risk,principally for

the Firm™s private equity business.
Economic risk capitalYearly Average
(in billions)20062005Credit risk$22.1
$22.6
Market risk
9.99.8Operational risk
5.75.5Private equity risk
3.43.8Economic risk capital41.1
41.7Goodwill43.943.1Other(a)25.720.7(b)Total common stockholders™ equity$110.7
$105.5
(a)Reflects additional capital required,in management™s view,to meet its regulatory and debt
rating objectives.
(b)Includes $2.1 billion of capital previously reported as business risk capital.
Credit risk capital
Credit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses (IB,

CB,TSS and AM) and consumer businesses (RFS and CS).
Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined in terms
of unexpected credit losses,both from defaults and declines in market value

due to credit deterioration,measured over a one-year period at a confidence

level consistent with the level of capitalization necessary to achieve a targeted
‚AA™ solvency standard.Unexpected losses are in excess of those for which

provisions for credit losses are maintained.In addition to maturity and corre-

lations,capital allocation is based upon several principal drivers of credit risk:

exposure at default (or loan-equivalent amount),likelihood of default,loss

severity and market credit spread.
Loan-equivalent amount for counterparty exposure in an over-the-counter
derivative transaction is represented by the expected positive exposure based

upon potential movements of underlying market rates.The loan-equivalent

amount for unused revolving credit facilities represents the portion of the
unused commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected,based

upon average portfolio historical experience,to become outstanding in the

event of a default by an obligor.
Default likelihood is based upon current market conditions for all
Investment Bank clients by referencing equity and credit derivatives mar-

kets,as well as certain other publicly traded entities that are not IB clients.

This methodology facilitates,in the Firm™s view,more active risk manage-

ment by utilizing a dynamic,forward-looking measure of credit.This meas-

ure changes with the credit cycle over time,impacting the level of credit

risk capital.For privately held firms and individuals in the Commercial Bank

and Asset Management,default likelihood is based upon longer-term aver-

ages through the credit cycles.
Loss severity of exposure is based upon the Firm™s average historical 
experience during workouts,with adjustments to account for collateral 

or subordination.Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is based upon product and other rel-evant risk segmentation.Actual segment level default and severity experience are

used to estimate unexpected losses for a one-year horizon at a confidence level
equivalent to the ‚AA™ solvency 
standard.Statistical results for 
certain segments orMANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
58JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
portfolios are adjusted to ensure that capital is consistentwith 
external bench-marks,such as subordination levels on market transactions or capital held at rep-

resentative monoline competitors,where appropriate.
Market risk capital
The Firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that capital
should reflect the risk of loss in the value of portfolios and financial instruments

caused by adverse movements in market variables,such as interest and foreign

exchange rates,credit spreads,securities prices and commodities prices.Daily

Value-at-Risk (ﬁVARﬂ),monthly stress-test results and other factors are used to

determine appropriate capital levels.The Firm allocates market risk capital to

each business segment according to a formula that weights that segment™s VAR

and stress-test exposures.See Market risk management on pages 77Œ80of this

Annual Report for more information about these market risk measures.
Operational risk capital

Capital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using a risk-based

capital allocation methodology which estimates operational risk on a bottom-up

basis.The operational risk capital model is based upon actual losses and potential

scenario-based stress losses,with adjustments to the capital calculation to reflect

changes in the quality of the control environment or the use of risk-transfer prod-

ucts.The Firm believes the model is 
consistentwith the new Basel II Framework
and expects to propose it eventually for qualification under the advanced meas-

urement approach for operational risk.
Private equity risk capital
Capital is allocated to privately- and publicly-held securities,third-party fund
investments and commitments in the Private Equity portfolio to cover the potential

loss associated with a decline in equity markets and related asset devaluations.
Regulatory capital The Firm™s federal banking regulator,the Federal Reserve Board,establishes capi-

tal requirements,including well-capitalized standards for the consolidated finan-

cial holding company.The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (ﬁOCCﬂ)

establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Firm™s national

banks,including JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.and Chase Bank USA,N.A.
On December 14,2006,the federal banking regulatory agencies announced

an interim decision that SFAS 158 will not impact regulatory capital.Until fur-

ther guidance is issued,any amounts included in Accumulated other compre-

hensive income (loss) within Stockholders™ equity related to the adoption of
SFAS 158 will be excluded from regulatory capital.For further discussion of

SFAS 158,refer to Note 7 on pages 
100Œ105of this Annual Report.
In the first quarter of 2006,the federal banking regulatory agencies issued a
final rule that provides regulatory capital relief for certain cash-collateralized,

securities-borrowed transactions.The final rule,which became effective

February 22,2006,also broadens the types of transactions qualifying for reg-

ulatory capital relief under the interim rule.Adoption of the rule did not have

a material effect on the Firm™s capital ratios.
On March 1,2005,the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule,which
became effective April 11,2005,that continues the inclusion of trust pre-

ferred capital debt securities in Tier 1 capital,subject to stricter quantitative

limits and revised qualitative standards,and broadens the definition of

restricted core capital elements.The rule provides for a five-year transition

period.As an internationally active bank holding company,JPMorgan Chase

is subject to the rule™s limitation on restricted core capital elements,including

trust preferred capital debt securities,to 15% of total core capital elements,

net of goodwill less any associated deferred tax liability.At December 31,
2006,JPMorgan Chase™s
restricted core capital elements were 15.1% of totalcore capital elements.
The following tables show that JPMorgan Chase maintained a well-capitalized
position based upon Tier1and Total capital ratios at December 31,2006 and 2005.
Capital ratios
Well-capitalized
December 31,20062005ratios
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.7%8.5%6.0%
Total capital ratio
12.312.010.0
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.26.3NA
Total stockholders™ equity to assets
8.68.9NA
Risk-based capital components and assetsDecember 31,(in millions)
20062005Total Tier 1 capital
$81,055
$72,474
Total Tier 2 capital
34,21029,963Total capital$115,265
$102,437
Risk-weighted assets$935,909
$850,643
Total adjusted average assets
1,308,6991,152,546Tier 1 capital was $81.1 billion at December 31,2006,compared with $72.5
billion at December 31,2005,an increase of $8.6 billion.The increase was

due primarily to net income of $14.4 billion,net issuances of common stock

under the Firm™s employee stock based compensation plans of $3.8 billion and

$873 million of additional qualifying trust preferred capital debt securities.

Partially offsetting these increases were changes in stockholders™ equity net of

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) due to dividends declared of
$4.9 billion,common share repurchases of $3.9 billion,the redemption of pre-

ferred stock of $139 million,a $1.2 billion increase in the deduction for good-

will and other nonqualifying intangibles and a $563 million reduction in quali-
fying minority interests.Additional information regarding the Firm™s capital

ratios and the federal regulatory capital standards to which it is subject is pre-

sented in Note 26 on pages 129Œ130 of this Annual Report.
Basel II The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published the new Basel II

Framework in 2004 in an effort to update the original international bank capital

accord (ﬁBasel Iﬂ),which has been in effect since 1988.The goal of the Basel II

Framework is to make regulatory capital more risk-sensitive,and promote

enhanced risk management practices among large,internationally active bank-

ing organizations.
U.S.banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II Framework
into the existing risk-based capital requirements.JPMorgan Chase will be

required to implement advanced measurement techniques in the U.S.,commenc-

ing in 2009,by employing internal estimates of certain key risk drivers to derive

capital requirements.Prior to its implementation of the new Basel II Framework,

JPMorgan Chase will be required to demonstrate to its U.S.bank supervisors that

its internal criteria meet the relevant supervisory standards.JPMorgan Chase

expects to be in compliance within the established timelines with all relevant

Basel II rules.During 2007 and 2008,the Firm will adopt Basel II rules in certain

non-U.S.jurisdictions,as required.
DividendsThe Firm™s common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan Chase™s earnings out-

look,desired dividend payout ratios,need to maintain an adequate capital level

and alternative investment opportunities.In 2006,JPMorgan Chase declared
quarterly cash dividends on its common stock of $0.34 per share.The Firm con-

tinues to target a dividend payout ratio of 30-40% of net income over time.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
59The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based upon
reported Net income:Common dividend payout ratio
Year ended December 31,
200620052004
Common dividend payout ratio
34%57%88%
For information regarding restrictions on JPMorgan Chase™s ability to pay divi-
dends,see Note 25 on page 129 of this Annual Report.
Stock repurchases
On March 21,2006,the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase pro-
gram that authorizes the repurchase of up to $8 billion of the Firm™s common
shares,which supercedes a $6 billion stock repurchase program approved in

2004.The $8 billion authorization includes shares to be repurchased to offset
issuances under the Firm™s employee stock-based plans.The actual number of
shares repurchased is subject to various factors,including:market conditions;

legal considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity;the

Firm™s capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles);internal

capital generation;and alternative potential investment opportunities.The
repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables;may

be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transac-

tions,or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs;and may be suspended at any time.
For the year ended December 31,2006,under the respective stock repurchase
programs then in effect,the Firm repurchased a total of 91 million shares for $3.9

billion at an average price per share of $43.41.Under the original $6 billion stock

repurchase program,during 2005,the Firm repurchased 94 million shares for $3.4

billion at an average price per share of $36.46.
As of December 31,2006,$5.2 billion of authorized repurchase capacity remained

under the current stock repurchase program.
The Firm has determined that it may,from time to time,enter into written trading

plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate

the repurchase of common stock in accordance with the repurchase program.

A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan would allow the Firm to repurchase shares
during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common stock Œ
for example,during internal trading ﬁblack-out periods.ﬂAll purchases under a

Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan that is estab-
lished when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic information.
For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm™s equity securi-
ties,see Part II,Item 5,Market for registrant™s common equity,related stock-

holder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities,on page 11 of

JPMorgan Chase™s 2006 Form 10-K.
OFFŒBALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS
Special-purpose entitiesJPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of offŒbalance sheet arrange-

ments,including special purpose entities (ﬁSPEsﬂ),lines of credit and loan

commitments.The principal uses of SPEs are to obtain sources of liquidity for

JPMorgan Chase and its clients by securitizing financial assets,and to create

other investment products for clients.These arrangements are an important

part of the financial markets,providing market liquidity by facilitating

investors™ access to specific portfolios of assets and risks.For example,SPEs

are integral to the markets for mortgage-backed securities,commercial paper

and other asset-backed securities.
The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE.The SPE
funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors.To insulate

investors from creditors of other entities,including the seller of assets,SPEs

are generally structured to be bankruptcy-remote.
JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories:loan securitizations,
multi-seller conduits and client intermediation.Capital is held,as deemed appropri-
ate,against all SPE-related transactions and related exposures,such as derivative

transactions and lending-related commitments.For further discussion of SPEs and

the Firm™s accounting for these types of exposures,see Note 1 on page 94,Note

14 on pages 114Œ118and Note 15 on pages 118Œ120of this Annual Report.
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE trans-

action,and its policies require that transactions with SPEs be conducted at

arm™s length and reflect market pricing.Consistent with this policy,no JPMorgan

Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with which the Firm is involved
where such investment would violate the Firm™s Code of Conduct.These rules

prohibit employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf of the Firm in trans-

actions with which they or their family have any significant financial interest.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs,the Firm could be required to 

provide funding if the short-term credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.

were downgraded below specific levels,primarily P-1,A-1 and F1 for Moody™s,

Standard & Poor™s and Fitch,respectively.The amount of these liquidity commit-

ments was $74.4 billion and $71.3 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,

respectively.Alternatively,if JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.were downgraded,the

Firm could be replaced by another liquidity provider in lieu of providing fundingunder the liquidity commitment,or,in certain circumstances,could facilitate the
sale or refinancing of the assets in the SPE in order to provide liquidity.
Of the $74.4 billion in liquidity commitments to SPEs at December 31,2006,

$74.0 billion was included in the Firm™s other unfunded commitments to extend

credit and asset purchase agreements,as shown in the table on the following

page.Of the $71.3 billion of liquidity commitments to SPEs at December 31,

2005,$38.9 billion was included in the Firm™s other unfunded commitments to

extend credit and asset purchase agreements.Of these commitments,$356 mil-

lion and $32.4 billion have been excluded from the table at December 31,2006

and 2005,respectively,as the underlying assets of the SPEs have been included

on the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets due to the consolidation of certain

multi-seller conduits as required under FIN 46R.The decrease from the 2005

year end is due to the deconsolidation during the 2006 second quarter of sever-
al multi-seller conduits administrated by the Firm.For further information,refer

to Note 15 on pages 118Œ120 of this Annual Report.
The Firm also has exposure to certain SPEs arising from derivative transactions;

these transactions are recorded at fair value on the Firm™s Consolidated balance

sheets with changes in fair value (i.e.,mark-to-market (ﬁMTMﬂ) gains and losses)

recorded in Principal transactions.Such MTM gains and losses are not included in

the revenue amounts reported in the following table.
The following table summarizes certain revenue information related to consoli-

dated and nonconsolidated variable interest entities (ﬁVIEsﬂ) with which the

Firm has significant involvement,and qualifying SPEs (ﬁQSPEsﬂ).The revenue

reported in the table below primarily represents servicing and credit fee income.

For further discussion of VIEs and QSPEs,see Note 1,Note 14 and Note 15,on

pages 94,114Œ118and 118Œ120,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Revenue from VIEs and QSPEs
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)VIEs
(c)QSPEsTotal
2006$ 209$ 3,183$ 3,392
2005(a)2222,9403,162
2004(a)(b)1542,7322,886
(a)Prior-period results have been restated to reflect current methodology.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(c)Includes VIE-related revenue (i.e.,revenue associated with consolidated and significant 
nonconsolidated VIEs).60JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial
instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g.,commitments
and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers.The contractual

amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit

risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment or the Firm be

required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee,and the counterparty

subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the contract.Most of

these commitments and guarantees expire without a default occurring or

without being drawn.As a result,the total contractual amount of these

instruments is not,in the Firm™s view,representative of its actual future credit

exposure or funding requirements.Further,certain commitments,primarily

related to consumer financings,are cancelable,upon notice,at the option of

the Firm.For further discussion of lending-related commitments and guaran-

tees and the Firm™s accounting for them,see Credit risk management on

pages 64Œ76and Note 29 on pages 132Œ134of this Annual Report.
Contractual cash obligations
In the normal course of business,the Firm enters into various contractual 

obligations that may require future cash payments.Commitments for future cash

expenditures primarily include contracts to purchase future services and capital

expenditures related to real estateŒrelated obligations and equipment.The accompanying table summarizes,by remaining maturity,JPMorgan Chase™s
offŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and significant 
contractual cash obligations at December 31,2006.Contractual purchases

and capital expenditures in the table below reflect the minimum contractual

obligation under legally enforceable contracts 
with terms that are both fixedand determinable.Excluded from the following table are a number of obliga-

tions to be settled in cash,primarily in under one year.These obligationsare

reflected on the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets and include Federal 

funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements;Other 

borrowed funds;purchases of Debt and equity instruments;Derivative payables;

and certain purchases of instruments that resulted in settlement failures.For

discussion regarding Long-term debt and trust preferred capital securities,see

Note 19 on pages 124Œ125of this Annual Report.For discussion regarding

operating leases,see Note 27 on page 130 of this Annual Report.
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
2006By remaining maturity at December 31,Under1Œ<33Œ5Over2005
(in millions)1 yearyearsyears5 years
Total
Total
Lending-related
Consumer(a)$677,784$3,807$3,604$62,340$747,535
$655,596
Wholesale:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(b)(c)(d)92,82952,46567,25016,660229,204
208,469Asset purchase agreements(e)20,84738,0717,1861,42567,529
31,095Standby letters of credit and guarantees
(c)(f)(g)23,26421,28638,8125,77089,132
77,199Other letters of credit(c)4,62882310175,559
4,346Total wholesale141,568112,645113,34923,862391,424
321,109Total lending-related $819,352$116,452$116,953$86,202$1,138,959
$976,705
Other guarantees
Securities lending guarantees
(h)$318,095$Š$Š$Š$318,095
$244,316
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
(i)13,54210,65624,41422,91971,531
61,759Contractual cash obligations
Time deposits 
$195,187$5,314$2,329$1,519$204,349
$147,381
Long-term debt28,27241,01528,18935,945133,421
108,357Trust preferred capital debt securities
ŠŠŠ12,20912,209
11,529FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests(j)70634137,7908,336
2,354Operating leases
(k)1,0581,9951,6566,32011,029
9,734Contractual purchases and capital expenditures
7705241541361,584
2,324Obligations under affinity and co-brand programs
1,2622,0501,9068976,115
6,877Other liabilities(l)6387187693,1775,302
11,646Total $227,257$51,679$35,416$67,993$382,345
$300,202
(a)Includes Credit card lending-related commitments of $657 billion and $579 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,
that represent the total available credit to the Firm™s cardholders.
The Firm has not experienced,and does not anticipate,that all of its cardholders will utilize their entire available lines of c
redit at the same time.The Firm can reduce or cancel a credit card commit-
ment by providing the cardholder prior notice or,in some cases,without notice as permitted by law.
(b)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $39.0 billion and $28.3 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,w
hich are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with the Federal
Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(c)Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $32.8 billion and $29.3 billion at December 31,2006 and 20
05,respectively.
(d) Excludes unfunded commitments to private third-party equity funds of $589 million and $242 million at December 31,2006 and 
2005,respectively.
(e)The maturity is based upon the weighted-average life of the underlying assets in the SPE,which are primarily multi-seller as
set-backed commercial paper conduits.Represents asset purchase agree-
ments with the Firm™s administered multi-seller asset-backed commercial paper conduits,which excludes $356 million and $32.4 bi
llion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,related to con-
duits that were consolidated in accordance with FIN 46R,as the underlying assets of the conduits are reported in the Firm™s Con
solidated balance sheets.It also includes $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion
of asset purchase agreements to other third-party entities at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.Certain of the Firm™s admi
nistered multi-seller conduits were deconsolidated as of June2006;the assets deconsolidated were approximately $33 billion.
(f)JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $13.5 billion and $9.0 billion of these arrangements at December 31,2006 and 2005
,respectively.
(g)Includes unused commitments to issue standby letters of credit of $45.7 billion and $37.5 billion at December 31,2006 and 20
05,respectively.
(h)Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $317.9 billion and $245.0 billio
n at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(i)Represents notional amounts of derivatives qualifying as guarantees.For further discussion of guarantees,see Note 29 on page
s 132Œ134 of this Annual Report.
(j)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs.

(k)Excludes benefit of noncancelable sublease rentals of $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectivel
y.(l)Includes deferred annuity contracts.Excludes contributions for pension and other postretirement benefits plans,if any,as the
se contributions are not reasonably estimatable at this time.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
61RISK MANAGEMENTRisk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase™s business activities.The Firm™s
risk management framework and governance structure are intended to pro-

vide comprehensive controls and ongoing management of the major risks
inherent in its business activities.The Firm™s ability to properly identify,meas-

ure,monitor and report risk is critical to both its soundness and profitability.
Risk identification:The Firm™s exposure to risk through its daily business
dealings,including lending,trading and capital markets activities,is identi-

fied and aggregated through the Firm™s risk management infrastructure.
Risk measurement:
The Firm measures risk using a variety of method-
ologies,including calculating probable loss,unexpected loss and value-at-

risk,and by conducting stress tests and making comparisons to external

benchmarks.Measurement models and related assumptions are routinely

reviewed with the goal of ensuring that the Firm™s risk estimates are rea-

sonable and reflect underlying positions.
Risk monitoring/control:
The Firm™s risk management policies and pro-
cedures incorporate risk mitigation strategies and include approval limits

by customer,product,industry,country and business.These limits are moni-

tored on a daily,weekly and monthly basis,as appropriate.
Risk reporting:
Risk reporting is executed on a line of business and con-solidated basis.This information is reported to management on a daily,

weekly and monthly basis,as appropriate.
There are eight major risk types identified in the business activities of the
Firm:liquidity risk,credit risk,market risk,interest rate risk,private equity risk,

operational risk,legal and reputation risk,and fiduciary risk.
Risk governanceThe Firm™s risk governance structure starts with each line of business being

responsible for managing its own risk.Each line of business works closely

with Risk Management of the Firm,through its own risk committee and,in

most cases,its own chief risk officer.Each risk committee is responsible for

decisions regarding the business™ risk strategy,policies and controls.
Overlaying the line of business risk management are five corporate functions
with risk managementŒrelated responsibilities,including the Asset-Liability

Committee,Treasury,Chief Investment Office,Office of the General Counsel

and Risk Management.The Asset-Liability Committee is responsible for approving the Firm™s liquidity
policy,including contingency funding planning and exposure to SPEs (and any

required liquidity support by the Firm of such SPEs).The committee also over-

sees the Firm™s capital management and funds transfer pricing policy (through

which lines of business ﬁtransferﬂinterest and foreign exchange risk to

Treasury in the Corporate segment).The Committee is composed of the Firm™s

Chief Financial Officer,Chief Risk Officer,Chief Investment Officer,Corporate

Treasurer and the Chief Financial Officers of each line of business.
Treasury and the Chief Investment Office are responsible for measuring,moni-
toring,reporting and managing the Firm™s liquidity,interest rate and foreign

exchange risk.The Office of the General Counsel has oversight for legal and reputation and
fiduciary risks.
Risk Management is responsible for providing a firmwide function of risk man-
agement and controls.Within Risk Management are units responsible for credit

risk,market risk,operational risk and private equity risk,as well as Risk

Management Services and Risk Technology and Operations.Risk Management

Services is responsible for risk policy and methodology,risk reporting and risk

education;and Risk Technology and Operations is responsible for building the

information technology infrastructure used to monitor and manage risk.Risk

Management is headed by the Firm™s Chief Risk Officer,who is a member of the

Operating Committee and reports to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board

of Directors,primarily through the Board™s Risk Policy Committee and Audit

Committee.The person who filled the position of Chief Risk Officer during 2006

retired at the end of the year.Until his replacement is named,the Firm™s Chief

Executive Officer is acting as the interim Chief Risk Officer.
In addition to the risk committees of the lines of business and the above-ref-
erenced corporate functions,the Firm also has an Investment Committee,

which oversees global merger and acquisition activities undertaken by

JPMorgan Chase for its own investment account,that fall outside the scope

of the Firm™s private equity and other principal finance activities.
Investment CommitteeOperating Committee
Asset-Liability CommitteeTreasury and Chief Investment Office (Liquidity Risk and Nontrading Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk) 
Risk Management (Credit Risk,Market Risk,Private Equity Risk,Operational Risk,Risk Technology & Operations,
Risk Management Services)Office of the General Counsel (Legal and Reputation Risk,and Fiduciary Risk)
CommercialBankingRisk CommitteeInvestment Bank Risk Committee Retail FinancialServices RiskCommitteeCard ServicesRisk CommitteeTreasury & 
Securities ServicesRisk CommitteeAsset ManagementRisk CommitteeMANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
62JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of the Firm™s activities and
in the management of its assets and liabilities.JPMorgan Chase™s liquidity

management framework is intended to maximize liquidity access and mini-

mize funding costs.Through active liquidity management the Firm seeks to

preserve stable,reliable and cost-effective sources of funding.This access

enables the Firm to replace maturing obligations when due and fund assets
at appropriate maturities and rates.To accomplish this,management uses a

variety of measures to mitigate liquidity and related risks,taking into consid-

eration market conditions,prevailing interest rates,liquidity needs and the

desired maturity profile of liabilities,among other factors.
The three primary measures of the Firm™s liquidity position include the following:
Holding company short-term position:Holding company short-termposition measures the parent holding company™s ability to repay all obliga-

tions with a maturity of less than one year at a time when the ability of the
Firm™s subsidiaries to pay dividends to the parent company is constrained.
Cash capital position:Cash capital position is a measure intended toensure the illiquid portion of the balance sheet can be funded by equity,

long-term debt,trust preferred capital debt securities and deposits the Firm

believes to be core.
Basic surplus:Basic surplus measures the Bank™s ability to sustain a 90-
day stress event that is specific to the Firm where no new funding can be
raised to meet obligations as they come due.
Liquidity is managed so that,based upon the measures described above,
management believes there is sufficient surplus liquidity.
An extension of liquidity management is the Firm™s contingency funding plan.
The goal of the plan is to ensure appropriate liquidity during normal and

stress periods.The plan considers numerous temporary and long-term stress

scenarios where access to unsecured funding is severely limited or nonexist-
ent,taking into account both onŒ and offŒbalance sheet exposures,separate-

ly evaluating access to funds by the parent holding company,JPMorgan

Chase Bank,N.A.and Chase Bank USA,N.A.
Part of the Firm™s contingency funding plan is its ratings downgrade analysis.
For this analysis,the impact of numerous rating agency downgrade scenarios

are considered.
The various analytics used to manage the Firm™s liquidity and related risks rely
on management™s judgment regarding JPMorgan Chase™s ability to liquidate

assets or use assets as collateral for borrowings and take into account histori-

cal data on the funding of loan commitments (for example,commercial paper

back-up facilities),liquidity commitments to SPEs,commitments with rating

triggers and collateral posting requirements.
GovernanceThe Firm™s Asset-Liability Committee approves the Firm™s liquidity policy and
oversees the policy™s execution.Treasury is responsible for measuring,monitor-

ing,reporting and managing the Firm™s liquidity risk profile.Treasury formulates

the Firm™s liquidity targets and strategies;monitors the Firm™s onŒ and offŒbal-

ance sheet liquidity obligations;maintains contingency planning,including rat-

ings downgrade stress testing;and identifies and measures internal and exter-

nal liquidity warning signals to permit early detection of liquidity issues.
Funding Sources of funds

Consistent with its liquidity management policy,the Firm has raised funds at

the parent holding company sufficient to cover its obligations and those of 
its nonbank subsidiaries that mature over the next 12 months.
As of December 31,2006,the Firm™s liquidity position remained strong based
upon its liquidity metrics.JPMorgan Chase™s long-dated funding,including

core liabilities,exceeded illiquid assets,and the Firm believes its obligations 

can be met even if access to funding is impaired.The diversity of the Firm™s funding sources enhances financial flexibility and

limits dependence on any one source,thereby minimizing the cost of funds.

The deposits held by the RFS,CB,TSS and AM lines of business are generally a

stable and consistent source of funding for JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.As of

December 31,2006,total deposits for the Firm were $639 billion.A significant

portion of the Firm™s deposits are retail deposits,which are less sensitive to

interest rate changes and therefore are considered more stable than market-

based (i.e.,wholesale) deposits.In addition to these deposits,the Firm benefits
from substantial liability balances originated by RFS,CB,TSS and AM through

the normal course of business.These franchise-generated liability balances are

also a stable and consistent source of funding due to the nature of the busi-
nesses from which they are generated.For a further discussion of deposit and

liability balance trends,see Business Segment Results and Balance Sheet

Analysis on pages 36Œ52 and 55Œ56,respectively,of thisAnnual Report.
Additional sources of funds include a variety of both short- and long-term

instruments,including federal funds purchased,commercial paper,bank notes,

long-term debt,and trust preferred capital debt securities.This funding is

managed centrally,using regional expertise and local market access,to ensure

active participation by the Firm in the global financial markets while main-

taining consistent global pricing.These markets serve as a cost-effective and

diversified source of funds and are a critical component of the Firm™s 

liquidity management.Decisions concerning the timing and tenor of accessing

these markets are based upon relative costs,general market conditions,

prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
Finally,funding flexibility is provided by the Firm™s ability to access the repur-
chase and asset securitization markets.These markets are evaluated on an

ongoing basis to achieve an appropriate balance of secured and unsecured
funding.The 
ability to securitize loans,and the associated gains on those secu-
ritizations,are principally dependent upon the credit quality and yields of the

assets securitized and are generally not dependent upon the credit ratings of
the issuing entity.Transactions between the Firm and its securitization struc-

tures are reflected in JPMorgan Chase™s consolidated financial statements and

notes to the consolidated financial statements;these 
relationships include
retained interests in securitization 
trusts,liquidity
 facilities
and derivative
transactions.For further details,see 
OffŒbalance sheet arrangements and
contractual cash obligations and Notes 14 and 29 on pages 59Œ60,114Œ118

and 132Œ134,respectively,of this Annual Report.
The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of risk management,principally
through the Board™s Risk Policy Committee and Audit Committee.The Risk

Policy Committee oversees senior management risk-related responsibilities,

including reviewing management policies and performance against these poli-
cies and related benchmarks.The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight
of guidelines and policies that govern the process by which risk assessmentand management is undertaken.In addition,the Audit Committee reviews

with management the system of internal controls and financial reporting that
is relied upon to provide reasonable assurance of compliance with the Firm™s

operational risk management processes.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
63Credit ratings
The credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase™s parent holding company and each of its significant banking subsidiaries,as of December 3
1,2006,were as follows:
Short-term debtSenior long-term debt
Moody™sS&PFitchMoody™sS&PFitch
JPMorgan Chase & Co.P-1A-1F1Aa3A+A+
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.P-1
A-1+F1+Aa2AA-A+
Chase Bank USA,N.A.P-1A-1+F1+Aa2AA-A+
IssuanceContinued strong foreign investor participation in the global corporate 

markets allowed JPMorgan Chase to identify attractive opportunities globally to

further diversify its funding and capital sources.During 
2006,JPMorgan
Chase issued approximately $56.7 billion of 
long-termdebt 
and trust pre-ferred capital debt securities.These issuances were offset partially by $34.3

billion of long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities that
matured or were redeemed,and by the Firm™s redemption of $139 million of

preferred stock.In addition,in 2006 the Firm securitized approximately $16.8

billion of residential mortgage loans and $9.7 billion of credit card loans,

resulting in pretax gains on securitizations of $85 million and $67 million,
respectively.In addition,the Firm securitized approximately $2.4 billion of

automobile loans resulting in an insignificant gain.For a further discussion of

loan securitizations,see Note 14 on pages 114Œ118 of this Annual Report.
In connection with the issuance of certain of its trust preferred capital debtsecurities,the Firm has entered into Replacement Capital Covenants (ﬁRCCsﬂ)
granting certain rights to the holder of ﬁcovered debt,ﬂas defined in the

RCCs,that prohibit the repayment,redemption or purchase of the trust pre-

ferred capital debt securities except,with limited exceptions,to the extent that

JPMorgan Chase has received specified amounts of proceeds from the sale of
certain qualifying securities.Currently the Firm™s covered debt is its 5.875%

Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures,Series O,due 2035.
For
more information regarding these covenants,see the Forms 8-K filed by the

Firm on August 17,2006,September 28,2006 and February 2,2007.
Cash FlowsCash Flows from Operating ActivitiesFor the years ended December 31,2006 and 2005,net cash used in operating
activities was $49.6 billion and $30.2 billion,respectively.Net cash was used

to support the Firm™s lending and capital markets activities,as well as to sup-

port loans originated or purchased with an initial intent to sell.JPMorgan

Chase™s operating assets and liabilities vary significantly in the normal course of

business due to the amount and timing of cash flows.Management believes

cash flows from operations,available cash balances and short- and long-term

borrowings will be sufficient to fund the Firm™s operating liquidity needs.
Cash Flows from Investing ActivitiesThe Firm™s investing activities primarily include originating loans to be held to

maturity,other receivables,and the available-for-sale investment portfolio.For

the year ended December 31,2006,net cash of $99.6 billion was used in

investing activities,primarily due to increased loans in the wholesale portfolio,

mainly in the IB,reflecting an increase in capital markets activity,as well as

organic growth in CB.On the consumer side,increases in CS loans reflected

strong organic growth,the acquisitions of private-label credit card portfolios

and the 2006 first-quarter acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services,offset

partially by credit card securitization activity and a decline in auto loans and
leases.Cash also was used to fund the increase in the Treasury investment

securities portfolio,primarily in connection with repositioning of the Firm™s

portfolio to manage exposure to interest rates.
For the year ended December 31,2005,net cash of $12.9 billion was used in
investing activities,primarily attributable to growth in consumer loans,prima-

rily home equity and in CS,reflecting growth in new account originations and

the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business,offset partially by

securitization activity and a decline in auto loans reflecting a difficult auto
lending market.Net cash was generated by the Treasury investment securities

portfolio primarily from maturities of securities,as purchases and sales of

securities essentially offset each other.
Cash Flows from Financing ActivitiesThe Firm™s financing activities primarily include the issuance of debt and

receipt of customer deposits.JPMorgan Chase pays quarterly dividends on its

common stock and has an ongoing stock repurchase program.In 2006,net

cash provided by financing activities was $152.7 billion due to growth in

deposits,reflecting the ongoing expansion of the retail branch distribution

network and higher wholesale business volumes;and net new issuances of

Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities,offset partially by

the payment of cash dividends and stock repurchases.
In 2005,net cash provided by financing activities was $45.1 billion due to
growth in deposits,reflecting,on the retail side,new account acquisitions and

the ongoing expansion of the branch distribution network,and higher whole-

sale business volumes;and net new issuances of Long-term debt and trust

preferred capital debt securities,offset partially by the payment of cash divi-

dends and stock repurchases.
On February 14,2007,S&P raised the senior long-term debt ratings on
JPMorgan Chase & Co.and the operating bank subsidiaries to AA- and AA,

respectively.Additionally,S&P raised the short-term debt rating of JPMorgan

Chase & Co.to A-1+.Similarly,on February 16,2007,Fitch raised the senior

long-term debt rating on JPMorgan Chase & Co.and operating bank sub-

sidiaries to AA-.Fitch also raised the short-term debt rating of JPMorgan Chase

& Co.to F1+.The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by

credit ratings.A reduction in these ratings could have an adverse affect on the

Firm™s access to liquidity sources,increase the cost of funds,trigger additional

collateral requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterpar-

ties willing to lend.Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a
stable and diverse earnings stream,strong capital ratios,strong credit quality

and risk management controls,diverse funding sources and disciplined liquidity
monitoring procedures.
If the Firm™s ratings were downgraded by one notch,the Firm estimates the

incremental cost of funds and the potential loss of funding to be negligible.

Additionally,the Firm estimates the additional funding requirements for 

VIEs and other third-party commitments would not be material.In the 

current environment,the Firm believes a downgrade is unlikely.For additional

information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding

requirements for VIEs,and on derivatives and collateral agreements,see

Special-purpose entities on page 59 and Ratings profile of derivative receiv-

ables mark-to-market (ﬁMTMﬂ) on page 71,of this Annual Report.
64JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default.The Firm
provides credit (for example,through loans,lending-related commitments and

derivatives) to customers of all sizes,from large corporate clients to the indi-

vidual consumer.The Firm manages the risk/reward relationship of each 
creditand discourages the retention of assets that do not generatea 
positive returnabove the cost of risk-adjusted capital.The majority of the Firm™s wholesale

syndicated loan originations (primarily to IB clients) continues to be distributed
into the marketplace,with residual holds by the Firm averaging less than

10%.Wholesale loans generated by CB and AM are generally retained on the

balance sheet.With regard to the consumer credit market,the Firm focuses on

creating a portfolio that is diversified from both a product and a geographic
perspective.Within the mortgage business,originated loans are retained on the

balance sheet as well as securitized and sold selectively to U.S.government
agencies and U.S.government-sponsored enterprises;the latter category of

loans is routinely classified as held-for-sale.
Credit risk organization
Credit risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer.The Firm™s credit

risk management governance consists of the following primary functions:establishing a comprehensive credit risk policy framework

calculating the allowance for credit losses and ensuring appropriate credit 
risk-based capital managementassigning and managing credit authorities in connection with the approval 
of all credit exposuremonitoring and managing credit risk across all portfolio segments

managing criticized exposures
Risk identificationThe Firm is exposed to credit risk through lending and capital markets activi-
ties.Credit risk management works in partnership with the business segments
in identifying and aggregating exposures across all lines of business.
Risk measurement
To measure credit risk,the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating

the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default.Losses generated by consumer

loans are more predictable than wholesale losses,but are subject to cyclical

and seasonal factors.Although the frequency of loss is higher on consumer

loans than on wholesale loans,the severity of loss is typically lower and more

manageable on a portfolio basis.As a result of these differences,methodolo-

gies vary depending on certain factors,including type of asset (e.g.,consumer

installment versus wholesale loan),risk measurement parameters (e.g.,delin-

quency status and credit bureau score versus wholesale risk rating) and risk

management and collection processes (e.g.,retail collection center versus

centrally managed workout groups).Credit risk measurement is based upon

the amount of exposure should the obligor or the counterparty default,the

probability of default and the loss severity given a default event.Based upon

these factors and related market-based inputs,the Firm estimates both prob-

able and unexpected losses for the wholesale and consumer portfolios.
Probable losses,
reflected in the Provision for credit losses,primarily are based
upon statistical estimates of credit losses over time,anticipated as a result of

obligor or counterparty default.However,probable losses are not the sole

indicators of risk.If losses were entirely predictable,the probable loss rate

could be factored into pricing and covered as a normal and recurring cost of
doing business.Unexpected losses,reflected in the allocation of credit risk

capital,represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the proba-

ble level of losses.(Refer to Capital management on pages 57Œ59 of this

Annual Report for a further discussion of the credit risk capital methodology.)

Risk measurement for the wholesale portfolio is assessed primarily on a risk-rated basis;for the consumer portfolio,it is assessed primarily on a credit-
scored basis.
Risk-rated exposure For portfolios that are risk-rated,probable and unexpected loss calculations

are based upon estimates of probability of default and loss given default.
Probability of default is the expected default calculated on an obligor basis.

Loss given default is an estimate of losses that are based upon collateral and

structural support for each credit facility.Calculations and assumptions are

based upon management information systems and methodologies which are
under continual review.Risk ratings are assigned and reviewed on an ongoing

basis by Credit Risk Management and revised,if needed,to reflect the borrowers™

current risk profiles and the related collateral and structural positions.
Credit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS and CS),probable loss is

based upon a statistical analysis of inherent losses over discrete periods of
time.Probable losses are estimated using sophisticated portfolio modeling,

credit scoring and decision-support tools to project credit risks and establish
underwriting standards.In addition,common measures of credit quality derived

from historical loss experience are used to predict consumer losses.Other risk

characteristics evaluated include recent loss 
experience in the portfolios,
changesin origination sources,portfolio seasoning,
loss severity and underlyingcredit
practices,including charge-off policies.These analyses are applied to the

Firm™s current portfolios in order to forecast delinquencies and severity of

losses,which determine the amount of probable losses.These factors and

analyses are updated on a quarterly basis.
Risk monitoringThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve

the independence and integrity of decision-making and ensure credit risks are
assessed accurately,approved properly,monitored regularly and managed

actively at both the transaction and portfolio levels.The policy framework

establishes credit approval authorities,concentration limits,risk-rating

methodologies,portfolio-review parameters and guidelines for management

of distressed exposure.Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly on both

an aggregate portfolio level and on an individual customer basis.For con-

sumer credit risk,the key 
focus items are trends and concentrations at the
portfolio level,where potential
problems can be remedied through changes inunderwriting policies and portfolio guidelines.Consumer Credit Risk

Management monitors trends against business expectations and industry
benchmarks.In order to meet credit risk management objectives,the Firm

seeks to maintain a risk profile that is diverse in terms of borrower,product

type,industry and geographic 
concentration.Additional management of the
Firm™s exposure is accomplished through loan syndication and participations,

loan sales,securitizations,credit 
derivatives,use of master netting agreements
and collateral and other risk-reduction techniques.
Risk reporting
To enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making,aggregate credit

exposure,credit metric forecasts,hold-limit exceptions and risk profile

changes are reported regularly to senior credit risk management.Detailed

portfolio reporting of industry,customer and geographic concentrations

occurs monthly,and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is

reviewed by senior management at least on a quarterly basis.Through the

risk reporting and governance structure,credit risk trends and limit exceptions

are provided regularly to,and discussed with,the Operating Committee.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
CREDIT PORTFOLIO
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
652006 Credit risk overview
The wholesale portfolio exhibited credit stability during 2006.There was 
substantial growth in wholesale lending as a result of increased capital mar-
kets
Œrelated activity,offset by decreases in nonperforming loans and criticized
exposure of $601 million and $591 million,respectively
.In 2006,the Firm
also made significant strides in its multiyear initiative to reengineer its whole-
sale credit risk systems infrastructure.Several enhancements were incorporated

into the Firm™s operating infrastructure in 2006.Overall,the initiative has

enhanced management of credit risk;timeliness and accuracy of reporting;

support of client relationships;allocation of economic capital;and compliance

with Basel II initiatives.The Firm is on target to substantially complete the ini-

tiative by year-end 2007.
Consumer credit performance generally was stable in 2006.CS adopted the

FFIEC higher minimum payment requirements,which initially resulted in high-

er payment rates than historically experienced,albeit with losses less severe

than initially anticipated.Loans impacted by Hurricane 
Katrina generally have
performed better than initially projected,but have experienced longer resolu-

tion timeframes,especially where real estate and business banking assets are
involved.The Allowance for loan losses related to Hurricane Katrina was
reduced by $121 million in 2006 as a result of the better than anticipated per-
formance.Bankruptcy reform legislation became effective on October 17,2005.

This legislation prompted a ﬁrush to fileﬂeffect that resulted in a spike in

bankruptcy filings and increased 2005 credit losses,predominantly in CS.As

expected,following this spike in filings the Firm experienced lower credit card

net charge-offs in 2006,as the record levels of bankruptcy filings in the fourth

quarter of 2005 are believed to have included bankruptcy filings that would
have occurred in 2006.In 2006,management of the consumer segment continued to focus on portfolios

providing the most appropriate risk/reward relationship while keeping within the

Firm™s desired risk tolerance.During the past year,the majority of the new sub-

prime mortgage production was sold or classified as held-for-sale.In addition,a

portion of the subprime mortgage portfolio was transferred into the held-for-sale

account.The Firm also continued a de-emphasis of vehicle finance leasing.The

Firm experienced growth in many core consumer lending products including
home equity,credit cards,education,and business banking reflecting a focus on

the prime credit quality segment of the market.
Total credit portfolio
Nonperforming Average annual
As of or for the year ended December 31,Credit exposureassets
(i)Net charge-offsnet charge-off rate
(in millions,except ratios)
20062005200620052006200520062005Total credit portfolio
Loans Œ reported(a)$483,127
$419,148
$2,077
(j)$2,343
(j)$3,042
$3,819
0.73%1.00%Loans Œ securitized(b)66,95070,527ŠŠ2,2103,7763.285.47Total managed loans
(c)550,077489,6752,0772,3435,2527,5951.091.68Derivative receivables
55,60149,7873650NANANANAInterests in purchased receivables
(d)Š29,740ŠŠNANANANATotal managed credit-related assets605,678
569,2022,1132,3935,2527,5951.091.68Lending-related commitments(d)(e)1,138,959976,705NANANANANANAAssets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA228197NANANANATotal credit portfolio$1,744,637
$1,545,907$2,341
$2,590
$5,252
$7,595
1.09%1.68%Net credit derivative hedges notional
(f)$(50,733)
$(29,882)
$(16)
$(17)
NANANANACollateral held against derivatives
(g)(6,591)(6,000)NANANANANANAHeld-for-sale
Total average HFS loans
$38,316
$27,713
$87
$95
NANANANANonperforming Œ purchased(h)251341NANANANANANA(a)Loans are presented net of unearned income and net deferred loan fees of $2.3 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31,2006 a
nd 2005,respectively.
(b)Represents securitized credit card receivables.For further discussion of credit card securitizations,see Card Services on pa
ges 43Œ45 of this Annual Report.
(c)Past-due 90 days and over and accruing includes credit card receivables of $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion,and related credit 
card securitizations of $962 million and $730 million at December 31,2006 and
2005,respectively.
(d)As a result of restructuring certain multi-seller conduits the Firm administers,JPMorgan Chase deconsolidated $29 billion of
 Interests in purchased receivables,$3 billion of Loans and $1 billion of Securities,
and recorded a related increase of $33 billion of lending-related commitments during the second quarter of 2006.(e)Includes wholesale unused advised lines of credit totaling $39.0 billion and $28.3 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,resp
ectively,which are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with the Federal
Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.Credit card lending-related commitments of $657 billion and $579 billion 
at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,represent the total available
credit to its cardholders.The Firm has not experienced,and does not anticipate,that all of its cardholders will utilize their e
ntire available lines of credit at the same time.The Firm can reduce or cancel a
credit card commitment by providing the cardholder prior notice or,in some cases,without notice as permitted by law.
(f)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to 
manage the credit exposures;these derivatives do not qualify for hedge account-
ing under SFAS 133.
(g) Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.

(h)Represents distressed HFS wholesale loans purchased as part of IB™s proprietary activities,which are excluded from nonperfor
ming assets.
(i)Includes nonperforming HFS loans of $120 million and $136 million as of December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.

(j)Excludes nonperforming assets related to (1) loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA pools that
 are insured by U.S.government agencies and U.S.government sponsored
enterprises of $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,and (2) education loans that are 90 days
 past due and still accruing,which are insured by government agencies
under the Federal Family Education Loan Program,of $0.2 billion at December 31,2006.These amounts for GNMA and education loans 
are excluded,as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
The following table presents JPMorgan Chase™s credit portfolio as of
December 31,2006 and 2005.Total credit exposure at December 31,2006,

increased by $198.7 billion from December 31,2005,reflecting an increase

of $80.0 billion in the wholesale credit portfolio and $118.7 billion in the
consumer credit portfolio as further described in the following pages.
In the table below,reported loans include all HFS loans,which are carried at

the lower of cost or fair value with changes in value recorded in Noninterest

revenue.However,these HFS loans are excluded from the average loan 

balances used for the net charge-off rate calculations.
WHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO
As of December 31,2006,wholesale exposure (IB,CB,TSS and AM) increased
by $80.0 billion from December 31,2005,due to increases in lending-related

commitments of $70.3 billion,Loans of $33.6 billion,and Derivative receiv-

ables of $5.8 billion,partially offset by a decrease of $29.7 billion in Interests

in purchased receivables.During the second quarter of 2006,certain multi-

seller conduits that the Firm administers were deconsolidated,resulting in a
Wholesale
As of or for the year ended December 31,Credit exposureNonperforming assets
(f)(in millions)2006200520062005Loans Œ reported(a)$183,742
$150,111
$391
$992
Derivative receivables
55,60149,7873650Interests in purchased receivables
Š29,740ŠŠTotal wholesale credit-related assets239,343
229,6384271,042Lending-related commitments(b)391,424321,109NANAAssets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA317Total wholesale credit exposure$630,767
$550,747
$430
$1,059
Net credit derivative hedges notional
(c)$(50,733)
$(29,882)
$(16)
$(17)
Collateral held against derivatives
(d)(6,591)(6,000)NANAHeld-for-sale
Total average HFS loans
$22,187
$12,038
$58
$74
Nonperforming Œ purchased(e)251341NANA(a)Includes loans greater or equal to 90 days past due that continue to accrue interest.The principal balance of these loans to
taled $29 million and $50 million at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
Also see Note 12 on pages 112Œ113of this Annual Report.
(b)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $39.0 billion and $28.3 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,w
hich are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve
Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(c)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to 
manage the credit risk of credit exposures;these derivatives do not qualify for
hedge accounting under SFAS 133.Also see Credit derivative positions on page 71 of this Annual Report.
(d) Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.

(e)Represents distressed HFS loans purchased as part of IB™s proprietary activities,which are excluded from nonperforming asset
s.(f)Includes nonperforming HFS loans of $4 million and $109 million as of December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
66JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
decrease of $29 billion in Interests in purchased receivables,offset by a relat-
ed increase of $33 billion in lending-related commitments.For a more detailed
discussion of the deconsolidation,refer to Note 15 on pages 118Œ120 of this

Annual Report.The remainder of the increase in Loans and lending-related

commitments was primarily in the IB,reflecting an increase in capital mar-

ketsŒrelated activity,including financings associated with client acquisitions,

securitizations and loan syndications.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
67Net charge-offs/recoveries 
Wholesale
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
20062005Loans Œ reported
Net recoveries$22
$77
Average annual net recovery rate
(a)0.01%0.06%(a)Excludes average loans HFS of $22 billion and $12 billion for the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005,respectively.
During both 2006 and 2005,there were no net charge-offs for Derivative receiv-
ables,Interests in purchased receivables or lending-related commitments.
Net recoveries do not include gains from sales of nonperforming loans that weresold from the credit portfolio (as shown in the following table).Gains from these

sales during 2006 and 2005 were $72 million and $67 million,respectively,and

are reflected in Noninterest revenue.
The following table presents summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale portfolio as of December 31,2006 a
nd 2005.The ratings scale is based upon
the Firm™s internal risk ratings and is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis.
Wholesale exposure
Maturity profile(d)Ratings profileDecember 31,2006Under1Œ5Over
Investment-grade (ﬁIGﬂ)Noninvestment-grade
Total %
(in billions,except ratios) 1 yearyears5 yearsTotalAAA to BBB-BB+ & belowTotalof IG
Loans44%41%15%100%$104$57$16165%
Derivative receivables
1634501004975688
Interests in purchased receivables
(a)ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Lending-related commitments(a)365861003385339186
Total excluding HFS37%51%12%100%$491$11760881%
Loans held-for-sale
(b)23Total exposure
$631
Net credit derivative hedges notional
(c)16%75%9%100%$(45)$(6)$(51)88%
Maturity profile(d)Ratings profileDecember 31,2005Under1Œ5Over
Investment-grade (ﬁIGﬂ)Noninvestment-grade
Total %
(in billions,except ratios) 1 yearyears5 yearsTotalAAA to BBB-BB+ & belowTotalof IG
Loans43%44%13%100%$87$45$13266%
Derivative receivables242561004285084

Interests in purchased receivables4157210030Š30100
Lending-related commitments365771002734832185
Total excluding HFS
35%52%13%100%$432$10153381%
Loans held-for-sale
(b)18Total exposure
$551
Net credit derivative hedges notional
(c)15%74%11%100%$(27)$(3)$(30)90%
(a)As a result of restructuring certain multi-seller conduits the Firm administers,JPMorgan Chase deconsolidated $29 billion of
 Interests in purchased receivables,$3 billion of Loans and $1 billion of
Securities,and recorded 
a related increase of $33 billion of lending-related commitments during the second quarter of 2006.(b)HFS loans relate primarily to securitization and syndication activities.

(c)Ratings are based upon the underlying referenced assets.

(d)The maturity profile of Loans and lending-related commitments is based upon the remaining contractual maturity.The maturity 
profile of Derivative receivables is based upon the maturity profile of
Average exposure.See page 70 of this Annual Report for a further discussion of Average exposure.
Nonperforming loan activityWholesale
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)20062005Beginning balance$992
$1,574
Additions480581Reductions:Paydowns and other
(578)(520)Charge-offs(186)(255)Returned to performing(133)(204)Sales(184)(184)Total reductions(1,081)
(1,163)Net additions (reductions)(601)
(582)Ending balance$391
$992
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
68JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Wholesale credit exposure Œ selected industry concentration
The Firm focuses on the management and the diversification of its industry
concentrations.At December 31,2006,the top 10 industries 
remainedunchanged from December 31,2005.The increase in Banks and finance compa-
Wholesale credit exposure Œ selected industry concentration
Collateral
Noninvestment-gradeheld against
December 31,2006CreditInvestmentNet charge-offs/Creditderivative
(in millions,except ratios)exposure
(c)gradeNoncriticizedCriticized(recoveries)derivative hedges
(d)receivables
(e)Top 10 industries
(a)Banks and finance companies$61,79284%$9,733$74$(12)$(7,847)$(1,452)
Real estate32,1025713,7022439(2,223)(26)
Healthcare28,998834,618284(1)(3,021)(5)
State and municipal governments27,4859866223Š(801)(12)
Consumer products27,114727,32738322(3,308)(14)
Utilities24,938882,929183(6)(4,123)(2)
Asset managers24,570882,95631ŠŠ(750)
Securities firms and exchanges23,127931,5275Š(784)(1,207)
Retail and consumer services22,122706,268278(3)(2,069)(226)
Oil and gas18,544764,35638Š(2,564)Š
All other317,4688058,9713,484(31)(23,993)(2,897)
Total excluding HFS$608,26081%$113,049$5,026$(22)$(50,733)$(6,591)
Held-for-sale
(b)22,507Total exposure$630,767
Collateral
Noninvestment-gradeheld against
December 31,2005CreditInvestmentNet charge-offs/Creditderivative
(in millions,except ratios)exposure
(c)gradeNoncriticizedCriticized(recoveries)derivative hedges
(d)receivables
(e)Top 10 industries
(a)Banks and finance companies$50,92487%$6,462$232$(16)$(9,490)$(1,482)

Real estate29,9745513,226276Š(560)(2)

Healthcare25,435794,97724312(581)(7)

State and municipal governments25,3289840940Š(597)(1)

Consumer products25,678716,7915902(927)(28)

Utilities20,482901,841295(4)(1,624)Š

Asset managers17,358822,949103(1)(25)(954)

Securities firms and exchanges17,094891,83315Š(2,009)(1,525)

Retail and consumer services19,920754,65428812(989)(5)

Oil and gas18,200774,2679Š(1,007)Š
All other282,8028247,9663,081(82)(12,073)(1,996)
Total excluding HFS
$533,19581%$95,375$5,172$(77)$(29,882)$(6,000)
Held-for-sale
(b)17,552Total exposure
$550,747
(a)Rankings are based upon exposure at December 31,2006.
(b)HFS loans primarily relate to securitization and syndication activities.

(c)Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivative hedges and collateral held again
st Derivative receivables or Loans.
(d)Represents notional amounts only;these credit derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.

(e)Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
nies,Utilities,Asset managers,and Securities firms and exchanges reflects the
overall growth in wholesale exposure.Below are summaries of the top 10

industry concentrations as of December 31,2006 and 2005.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
69Automotive:Automotive Original Equipment Manufacturers and suppliers
based in North America continued to be impacted negatively by a chal-

lenging operating environment in 2006.As a result,criticized exposures

grew in 2006,primarily as a result of downgrades to select names within

the portfolio.Though larger in the aggregate,most of the criticized expo-

sure remained undrawn,was performing and substantially secured.
Media:Media no longer represents the largest percentage of criticized
exposure since its criticized exposures decreased significantly in 2006.
This decrease was due primarily to the maturation of short-term financing

arrangements,repayments,and the planned sale to reduce select exposures.
All other:All other in the wholesale credit exposure concentration table
on page 68 of this Annual Report at December 31,2006,excluding HFS,

included $317.5 billion of credit exposure to 22 industry segments.

Exposures related to SPEs and high-net-worth individuals were 31% and
13%,respectively,of this category.SPEs provide secured financing (gen-

erally backed by receivables,loans or bonds on a bankruptcy-remote,non-

recourse or limited-recourse basis) originated by a diverse group of com-
panies in industries that are not highly correlated.The remaining All other

exposure is well-diversified across industries other than those related to
SPEs and high-net-worth individuals;none comprise more than 3% of

total exposure.
Derivative contracts
In the normal course of business,the Firm uses derivative instruments to

meet the needs of customers;to generate revenues through trading activities;

to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates,currencies and other

markets;and to manage the Firm™s credit exposure.For further discussion of

derivative contracts,see Note 28 on pages 131Œ132of this Annual Report.
Wholesale criticized exposure

Exposures deemed criticized generally represent a ratings profile similar to a

rating of CCC+/Caa1 and lower,as defined by Standard & Poor™s/Moody™s.

The criticized component of the portfolio decreased to $5.7 billion at

December 31,2006,from $6.2 billion at year-end 2005.The decline resulted

from upgrades,repayments and reductions in wholesale nonperforming loans

as shown on page 67 of this Annual Report.
At December 31,2006,Healthcare,Agriculture/paper manufacturing,Business
services,and Chemicals/plastics moved into the top 10 of wholesale criticized

exposure,replacing Telecom services,Airlines,Machinery and equipment manu-

facturing,and Building materials/construction.
Wholesale criticized exposure Œ industry concentrations
20062005December 31,Credit% ofCredit% of
(in millions,except ratios)exposureportfolioexposureportfolio
Automotive$1,44229%
$64312%
Media3928
68413
Consumer products3837
59011
Healthcare2846
2435
Retail and consumer services2785
2886
Real estate2435
2765
Agriculture/paper manufacturing2395
1783
Business services2224
2505
Utilities1834
2956
Chemicals/plastics1593
1884
All other1,20124
1,53730
Total excluding HFS$5,026100%
$5,172100%
Held-for-sale
(a)6241,069Total$5,650
$6,241
(a) HFS loans primarily relate to securitization and syndication activities;excludes purchased
nonperforming HFS loans.
Wholesale selected industry discussion
Presented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm has

significant exposure,as well as industries the Firm continues to monitor

because of actual or potential credit concerns.For additional information,

refer to the tables above and on the preceding page.
Banks and finance companies:This industry group,primarily consisting of
exposure to commercial banks,is the largest segment of the Firm™s

wholesale credit portfolio.Credit quality is high,as 84% of the exposure

in this category is rated investment-grade.
Real estate:This industry,as the second largest segment of the Firm™s
wholesale credit portfolio,continued to grow in 2006,primarily due to

improving market fundamentals and increased capital demand for the

asset class supported by the relatively low interest rate environment.Real

estate exposure is well-diversified by client,transaction type,geography,

and property type.Approximately half of this exposure is to large public

and rated real estate companies and institutions (e.g.,REITS),as well as

real estate loans originated for sale into the commercial mortgage-
backed securities market.The remaining exposure is primarily to profes-

sional real estate developers,owners,or service providers and generally

involves real estate leased to third-party tenants.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
70JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts and the net derivative receivables MTM for the periods presented.
Notional amounts and derivative receivables marked to market (ﬁMTMﬂ)
Notional amounts(b)Derivative receivables MTM
(c)December 31,(in billions)2006200520062005Interest rate 
$50,201
$38,493
$29
$28
Foreign exchange 
2,5202,13643Equity80945866Credit derivatives
4,6192,24163Commodity 5072651110Total,net of cash collateral
(a)$58,656
$43,593
5650Liquid securities collateral held against derivative receivables
NANA(7)(6)Total,net of all collateralNA
NA$49
$44
(a) Collateral is only applicable to Derivative receivables MTM amounts.
(b) Represents the sum of gross long and gross short third-party notional derivative contracts,excluding written options and fo
reign exchange spot contracts.
(c) 2005 has been adjusted to reflect more appropriate product classification of certain balances.
01020
30
40506070Exposure profile of derivatives measures
December 31, 2006
(in billions)MDPAVGDRE
1 year2 years5 years10 years
The amount of Derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated balance
sheets of $56 billion and $50 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,

respectively,is the amount of the mark-to-market (ﬁMTMﬂ) or fair value of

the derivative contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master net-

ting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm and represents the cost

to the Firm to replace the contracts at current market rates should the coun-

terparty default.However,in Management™s view,the appropriate measure of

current credit risk should also reflect additional liquid securities held as collat-
eral by the Firm of $7 billion and $6 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,

respectively,resulting in total exposure,net of all collateral,of $49 billion and

$44 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
The Firm also holds additional collateral delivered by clients at the initiation
of transactions,but this collateral does not reduce the credit risk of the deriv-

ative receivables in the table above.This additional collateral secures potential

exposure that could arise in the derivatives portfolio should the MTM of the

client™s transactions move in the Firm™s favor.As of December 31,2006 and

2005,the Firm held $12 billion and $10 billion,respectively,of this additional

collateral.The derivative receivables MTM,net of all collateral,also does not

include other credit enhancements in the forms of letters of credit and surety
receivables.
While useful as a current view of credit exposure,the net MTM value of the
derivative receivables does not capture the potential future variability of that

credit exposure.To capture the potential future variability of credit exposure,

the Firm calculates,on a client-by-client basis,three measures of potential

derivatives-related credit loss:Peak,Derivative Risk Equivalent (ﬁDREﬂ) and

Average exposure (ﬁAVGﬂ).These measures all incorporate netting and collateral

benefits,where applicable.
Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure calculated
at a 97.5% confidence level.However,the total potential future credit risk

embedded in the Firm™s derivatives portfolio is not the simple sum of all Peak

client credit risks.This is because,at the portfolio level,credit risk is reduced

by the fact that when offsetting transactions are done with separate counter-

parties,only one of the two trades can generate a credit loss,even if both

counterparties were to default simultaneously.The Firm refers to this effect 

as market diversification,and the Market-Diversified Peak (ﬁMDPﬂ) measure

is a portfolio aggregation of counterparty Peak measures,representing the

maximum losses at the 97.5% confidence level that would occur if all coun-
terparties defaulted under any one given market scenario and time frame.
Derivative Risk Equivalent exposure is a measure that expresses the riskiness
of derivative exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the riskiness of

loan exposures.The measurement is done by equating the unexpected loss in

a derivative counterparty exposure (which takes into consideration both the

loss volatility and the credit rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected

loss in a loan exposure (which takes into consideration only the credit rating

of the counterparty).DRE is a less extreme measure of potential credit loss

than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit approval of

derivative transactions.
Finally,AVG is a measure of the expected MTM value of the
Firm™s derivative
receivables at future time periods,
including the benefit of collateral.AVG
exposure over the total life of the derivative contract is used as the primary

metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculate credit capitaland the

Credit Valuation Adjustment (ﬁCVAﬂ),as further described below.Average

exposure was $36 billion at both December 31,2006 and 2005,compared

with derivative receivables MTM,net of all collateral,of $49 billion and $44

billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
The graph below shows exposure profiles to derivatives over the next 10 years
as calculated by the MDP,DRE and AVG metrics.All three measures generally

show declining exposure after the first year,if no new trades were added to

the portfolio.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
71The Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to mitigate
counterparty credit risk in derivatives.The percentage of the Firm™s derivatives

transactions subject to collateral agreements decreased slightly,to 80% as 

of December 31,2006,from 81% at December 31,2005.
The Firm posted $27 billion of collateral as of both December 31,2006 and

2005.Certain derivative and collateral agreements include provisions that

require the counterparty and/or the Firm,upon specified downgrades in their

respective credit ratings,to post collateral for the benefit of the other party.

As of December 31,2006,the impact of a single-notch ratings downgrade to

JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.,from its rating of AA- to A+ at December 31,

2006,would have required $1.1 billion of additional collateral to be posted by

the Firm;the impact of a six-notch ratings downgrade (from AA- to BBB-)

would have required $3.1 billion of additional collateral.Certain derivative con-

tracts also provide for termination of the contract,generally upon a downgrade

of either the Firm or the counterparty,at the then-existing MTM value of the

derivative contracts.
Credit derivatives 
The following table presents the Firm™s notional amounts of credit derivatives

protection purchased and sold by the respective businesses as of December 31,
2006 and 2005:Credit derivatives positions
Notional amountCredit portfolioDealer/client
December 31,ProtectionProtectionProtectionProtection
(in billions)purchasedsoldpurchasedsold
Total
2006$52
(a)$1$2,277$2,289$4,619
20053111,0961,1132,241
(a) Includes $23 billion which represents the notional amount for structured portfolio protection;
the Firm retains the first risk of loss on this portfolio.
In managing wholesale credit exposure,the Firm purchases single-name and
portfolio credit derivatives;this activity does not reduce the reported level 

of assets on the balance sheet or the level of reported offŒbalance sheet 
commitments.The Firm also diversifies exposures by providing (i.e.,selling)

credit protection,which increases exposure to industries or clients where the

Firm has little or no client-related exposure.This activity is not material to the

Firm™s overall credit exposure.
The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm™s Derivative receivables MTM,net of other liquid securities coll
ateral,for the dates indicated:
Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM
Rating equivalent2006
2005December 31,Exposure net of% of exposure netExposure net of% of exposure net 
(in millions,except ratios)all collateralof all collateralall collateralof all collateral
AAA to AA-
(a)$28,15058%
$20,73548%
A+ to A-
7,58815
8,07418
BBB+ to BBB-8,04416
8,24319
BB+ to B-5,15011
6,58015
CCC+ and below78Š
155Š
Total$49,010100%
$43,787100%
(a) The increase in AAA to AA- was due primarily to exchange-traded commodity activities.
The MTM value of the Firm™s derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment,
the CVA,to reflect the credit quality of counterparties.The CVA is based 

upon the Firm™s AVG to a counterparty and the counterparty™s credit spread in

the credit derivatives market.The primary components of changes in CVA are

credit spreads,new deal activity or unwinds
,and changes in the underlying
market environment.The 
Firm believes that active risk management is essen-tial to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio.The Firm

risk manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit derivative

transactions,as well as interest rate,foreign exchange,equity and commodity

derivative transactions.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
72JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase has limited counterparty exposure as a result of credit derivatives transactions.Of the $55.6 billion of total Derivative receivables

MTM at December 31,2006,approximately $5.7 billion,or 10%,was associ-

ated with credit derivatives,before the benefit of liquid securities collateral.
Dealer/clientAt December 31,2006,the total notional amount of protection purchased and

sold in the dealer/client business increased $2.4 trillion from year-end 2005 as

a result of increased trade volume in the market.This business has a mismatch

between the total notional amounts of protection purchased and sold.However,

in the Firm™s view,the risk positions are largely matched when securities used

to risk-manage certain derivative positions are taken into consideration and

the notional amounts are adjusted to a duration-based equivalent basis or to

reflect different degrees of subordination in tranched structures.
Credit portfolio management activities
Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives
December 31,Notional amount of protection purchased
(in millions)20062005Credit derivatives used to manage:
Loans and lending-related commitments$40,755
$18,926
Derivative receivables
11,22912,088Total$51,984
(a)$31,014
(a) Includes $23 billion which represents the notional amount for structured portfolio protection;
the Firm retains the first loss on this portfolio.
The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for credit portfolio manage-
ment activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133,and

therefore,effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 is not performed.These deriv-

atives are reported at fair value,with gains and losses recognized in Principal

transactions.The MTM value incorporates both the cost of credit derivative

premiums and changes in value due to movement in spreads and credit

events;in contrast,the loans 
and lending-related commitments being risk-managed are accountedfor on 
an accrual basis.Loan interest and fees are
generally recognized in Net interest income,and impairment is recognized in

the Provision for credit losses.This asymmetry in accounting treatment,

between loans and lending-related commitments and the credit derivatives uti-
lized in portfolio management activities,causes earnings volatility that is not
representative,in the Firm™
s view,of the true changes in value of the Firm™s
overall credit exposure.The MTM related to the Firm™s credit derivatives used for

managing credit exposure,
as well as the MTM related to the CVA,which
reflects the credit quality of derivatives counterparty exposure,are included in

the table below.These results can vary from year to year due to market condi-

tions that impact specific positions in the portfolio.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(c)Hedges of lending-related commitments(a)$(246)
$24$(234)
CVA and hedges of CVA
(a)13384188
Net gains (losses)(b)$(113)
$108$(46)
(a) These hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
(b) Excludes gains of $56 million,$8 million and $52 million for the years ended December 31,
2006,2005 and 2004,respectively,of other Principal transactions revenues that are not

associated with hedging activities.
(c) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The Firm also actively manages wholesale credit exposure through loan 
and commitment sales.During 2006,2005 and 2004,the Firm sold $3.1 bil-

lion,$4.0 billion and $5.9 billion of loans and commitments,respectively,rec-

ognizing gains (losses) of $73 million,$76 million and ($8) million in 2006,

2005 and 2004,respectively.The gains include gains on sales of nonperform-

ing loans as discussed on page 67 of this Annual Report.These activities are

not related to the Firm™s securitization activities,which are undertaken for liq-

uidity and balance sheet management purposes.For a further discussion of

securitization activity,see Liquidity Risk Management and Note 14 on pages

62Œ63and 114Œ118,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Lending-related commitments 
The contractual amount of wholesale lending-related commitments was

$391.4 billion at December 31,2006,compared with $321.1 billion at 

December 31,2005.See page 66 of this Annual Report for an explanation of

the increase in exposure.In the Firm™s view,the total contractual amount of

these instruments is not representative of the Firm™s actual credit risk expo-

sure or funding requirements.In determining the amount of credit risk expo-

sure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments,which is used

as the basis for allocating credit risk capital to these instruments,the Firm has

established a ﬁloan-equivalentﬂamount for each commitment;this amount

represents the portion of the unused commitment or other contingent expo-
sure that is expected,based upon average portfolio historical experience,to

become outstanding in the event of a default by an obligor.The loan-equivalent

amount of the Firm™s lending-related commitments was $212 billion and

$178 billion as of December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
Emerging markets country exposure 
The Firm has a comprehensive internal process for measuring and managing

exposures and risk in emerging markets countries Œ defined as those countries

potentially vulnerable to sovereign events.As of December 31,2006,based

upon its internal methodology,the Firm™s exposure to any individual emerging-

markets country was not significant,in that total exposure to any such country

did not exceed 0.75% of the Firm™s total assets.In evaluating and managing

its exposures to emerging markets countries,the Firm takes into consideration

all credit-related lending,trading,and investment activities,whether cross-bor-

der or locally funded.Exposure amounts are then adjusted for credit enhance-

ments (e.g.,guarantees and letters of credit) provided by third parties located

outside the country,if the enhancements fully cover the country risk as well as

the credit risk.For information regarding the Firm™s cross-border exposure,

based upon guidelines of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination

Council (ﬁFFIECﬂ),see Part 1,Item 1,ﬁLoan portfolio,Cross-border outstand-

ings,ﬂon page 155,of the Firm™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

ended December 31,2006.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
73CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO 
JPMorgan Chase™s consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential mortgages,
home equity loans,credit cards,auto loans and leases,education loans and busi-

ness banking loans and reflects the benefit of diversification from both a product
and a geographic perspective.The primary focus is serving the prime consumer

credit market.There are no products in the real estate portfolios that result in
negative amortization.However,RFS offers Home Equity lines of credit and
Mortgage loans with interest-only payment options to predominantly prime bor-
rowers.The Firm actively manages its consumer credit operation.Ongoing efforts

include continual review and enhancement of credit underwriting criteria and
refinement of pricing and risk management models.
The following table presents managed consumer creditŒrelated information for the dates indicated:
Consumer portfolio CreditNonperformingAverage annual
As of or for the year ended December 31,exposureassets
(e)Net charge-offsnet charge-off rate
(g)(in millions,except ratios)
20062005200620052006200520062005Retail Financial ServicesHome equity $85,730
$73,866
$454
$422
$143
$141
0.18%0.20%Mortgage59,66858,95976944256250.120.06Auto loans and leases(a)41,00946,0811321932382770.560.54All other loans27,09718,3933222811391290.650.83Card Services Œ reported(b)85,88171,7389132,4883,3243.374.94Total consumer loans Œ reported299,385
269,0371,686(f)1,351(f)3,0643,8961.171.56Card Services Œ securitizations(b)(c)66,95070,527ŠŠ2,2103,7763.285.47Total consumer loans Œ managed
(b)366,335339,5641,6861,3515,2747,6721.602.41Assets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA225180NANANANATotal consumer related assets Œ managed366,335
339,5641,9111,5315,2747,6721.602.41Consumer lendingŒrelated commitments:
Home equity69,55958,281NANANANANANAMortgage6,6185,944NANANANANANAAuto loans and leases
7,8745,665NANANANANANAAll other loans6,3756,385NANANANANANACard Services(d)657,109579,321NANANANANANATotal lending-related commitments
747,535655,596NANANANANANATotal consumer credit portfolio$1,
113,870$995,160
$1,911
$1,531
$5,274
$7,672
1.60%2.41%Total average HFS loans
$16,129
$15,675
$29
$21
NANANANAMemo:Credit card Œ managed
152,831142,265913$4,698
$7,100
3.33%5.21%(a)Excludes operating leaseŒrelated assets of $1.6 billion and $858 million at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(b)Past-due loans 90 days and over and accruing includes credit card receivables of $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion at December 3
1,2006 and 2005,and related credit card securitizations of $962 million
and $730 million at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(c)Represents securitized credit card receivables.For a further discussion of credit card securitizations,see Card Services on 
pages 43Œ45 of this Annual Report.
(d)The credit card lendingŒrelated commitments represent the total available credit to the Firm™s cardholders.The Firm has not 
experienced,and does not anticipate,that all of its cardholders will utilize
their entire available lines of credit at the same time.The Firm can reduce or cancel a credit card commitment by providing the
 cardholder prior notice or,in some cases,without notice as permitted
by law.
(e)Includes nonperforming HFS loans of $116 million and $27 million at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(f)Excludes nonperforming assets related to (1) loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA pools that are insured by U.S.government agencies and U.S.government-spon
soredenterprises of $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion for December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,and (2) education loans that are 90 day
s past due and still accruing,which are insured by U.S.government
agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $0.2 billion at December 31,2006.These amounts for GNMA and educati
on loans are excluded,as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(g)Net charge-off rates exclude average loans HFS of $16 billion for the years ended December 31,2006 and 2005.
Total managed consumer loans as of December 31,2006,were $366.3 bil-
lion,up from $339.6 billion at year-end 2005 reflecting growth in most con-

sumer portfolios.Consumer lending-related commitments increased by 14%,

to $747.5 billion at December 31,2006,primarily reflecting growth in credit

cards and home equity lines of credit.The following discussion relates to the
specificloan and lending-related categories within the consumer portfolio.
Retail Financial Services:Average RFS loan balances for 2006 were $203.9 billion.The net charge-off

rate for retail loans in 2006 was 0.31%,which was flat compared with the

prior year,reflecting stable credit trends in most consumer lending portfolios.

New loans originated in 2006 primarily reflect high credit quality consistentwith management™s focus on prime and near-prime credit market segmenta-
tion.The Firm regularly evaluates market conditions and the overall economic

returns of new originations and makes an initial determination of whether to

classify specific new originations as held-for-investment or held-for-sale.The

Firm also periodically evaluates the overall economic returns of its held-for-

investment loan portfolio under prevailing market conditions to determine

whether to retain or sell loans in the portfolio.When it is determined that a

loan that was previously classified as held-for-investment will be sold it is

transferred into a held-for-sale account.Held-for-sale loans are accounted for

at the lower of cost or fair value,with changes in value recorded in

Noninterest revenue.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
74JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Home equity:Home equity loans at December 31,2006,were $85.7 billion,
an increase of $11.9 billion from year-end 2005.Growth in the portfolio

reflected organic growth,as well as The Bank of New York transaction.The

geographic distribution is well-diversified as shown in the table below.
Mortgage:Mortgage loans at December 31,2006,were $59.7 billion.
Mortgage receivables as of December 31,2006,reflected an increase of 

$709 million from the prior year.Although the Firm provides mortgage loans
to the full spectrum of credit borrowers,more than 75% of RFS™ mortgage

loans on the balance sheet are to prime borrowers.In addition,the Firm 

sells or securitizes virtually all fixed-rate mortgage originations,as well as a

portion of its adjustable rate originations.As a result,the portfolio of resi-

dential mortgage loans held-for-investment consists primarily of adjustable

rate products.The geographic distribution is well-diversified as shown in the

table below.
Auto loans and leases:As of December 31,2006,Auto loans and leases
decreased to $41.0 billion from $46.1 billion at year-end 2005.The decrease

in outstanding loans was caused primarily by the de-emphasis of vehicle

finance leasing,which comprised $2 billion of outstanding loans as of

December 31,2006,down from $4 billion in the prior year.The Auto loan

portfolio reflects a high concentration of prime and near-prime quality credits.
All other loans:All other loans primarily include business banking loans(which are highly collateralized loans,often with personal loan guarantees),

Education loans and community development loans.As of December 31,

2006,Other loans increased to $27.1 billion compared with $18.4 billion at

year-end 2005.This increase is due primarily to an increase in education

loans as a result of the acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services.Loan bal-

ances also increased in Business banking primarily as a result of The Bank of

New York transaction.
Card Services
JPMorgan Chase analyzes its credit card portfolio on a managed basis,which

includes credit card receivables on the consolidated balance sheet and those

receivables sold to investors through securitization.Managed credit card

receivables were $152.8 billion at December 31,2006,an increase of $10.6

billion from year-end 2005,reflecting organic growth and acquisitions,par-

tially offset by higher customer payment rates.
The managed credit card net charge-off rate decreased to 3.33% for 2006,
from 5.21% in 2005.This decrease was due primarily to lower bankruptcy-

related net charge-offs.The 30-day delinquency rates increased to 3.13% at

December 31,2006,from 2.79% at December 31,2005,primarily driven by

accelerated loss recognition of delinquent accounts in 2005,as a result of the

2005 bankruptcy reform legislation.The managed credit card portfolio contin-

ues to reflect a well-seasoned portfolio that has good U.S.geographic diversi-

fication.Year ended December 31,
Mortgage (in billions,except ratios)
20062005 California $14.524%
$13.823%
New York
8.915
9.216
Florida7.112
6.812
New Jersey2.64
2.64
Illinois2.44
2.24
Texas
2.14
2.34
Virginia
1.53
1.73
Michigan1.53
1.53
Arizona1.53
1.22
Maryland1.42
1.53
All other16.226
16.226
Total$59.7100%
$59.0100%
Consumer real estate loans by geographic location
Year ended December 31,
Home equity(in billions,except ratios)
20062005 California$12.915%
$10.514%
New York
12.214
10.214
Illinois6.27
5.57
Texas
5.87
5.37
Arizona 5.46
4.56
Ohio5.36
5.27
Florida4.45
3.55
Michigan3.84
3.75
New Jersey3.54
2.64
Indiana2.63
2.64
All other23.629
20.327
Total$85.7100%
$73.9100%
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
75Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses
Year ended December 31,
20062005(in millions)WholesaleConsumerTotalWholesaleConsumerTotal
Loans:Beginning balance at January 1,
$2,453$4,637$7,090
$3,098$4,222$7,320
Gross charge-offs(186)(3,698)(3,884)
(255)(4,614)(4,869)
Gross recoveries208634842
3327181,050
Net (charge-offs) recoveries22(3,064)(3,042)
77(3,896)(3,819)
Provision for loan losses(a)2132,9403,153
(716)4,2913,575
Other235578
(d)(6)2014
Ending balance at December 31$2,711
(b)$4,568
(c)$7,279
$2,453
(b)$4,637
(c)$7,090
Components:Asset specific$51$Š$51
$203$Š$203
Statistical component1,7573,3985,155
1,6293,4225,051
Adjustment to statistical component9031,1702,073
6211,2151,836
Total Allowance for loan losses$2,711$4,568$7,279
$2,453$4,637$7,090
Lending-related commitments:
Beginning balance at January 1,
$385$15$400
$480$12$492
Provision for lending-related commitments1089117
(95)3(92)
Other617
(d)ŠŠŠ
Ending balance at December 31$499$25$524
$385$15$400
Components:Asset specific$33$Š$33
$60$Š$60
Statistical component46625491
32515340
Total allowance for 
lending-related commitments$499$25$524
$385$15$400
(a)2006 includes a $157 million release of Allowance for loan losses related to Hurricane Katrina.2005 includes $400 million of
 allowance related to Hurricane Katrina.
(b)The ratio of the wholesale allowance for loan losses to total wholesale loans was 1.68% and 1.85%,excluding wholesale HFS lo
ans of $22.5 billion and $17.6 billion at December 31,2006 and
2005,respectively.
(c)The ratio of the consumer allowance for loan losses to total consumer loans was 1.71% and 1.84%,excluding consumer HFS loans
 of $32.7 billion and $16.6 billion at December 31,2006 and
2005,respectively.
(d)Primarily relates to loans acquired in The Bank of New York transaction in the fourth quarter of 2006.
ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES 
JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for credit losses is intended to cover probable
credit losses,including losses where the asset is not specifically identified or

the size of the loss has not been fully determined.At least quarterly,the

allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer,the Chief

Financial Officer and the Controller of the Firm,and discussed with the Risk

Policy and Audit Committees of the Board of Directors of the Firm.The

allowance is reviewed relative to the risk profile of the Firm™s credit portfolio

and current economic conditions and is adjusted if,in management™s judg-

ment,changes are warranted.The allowance includes an asset-specific com-
ponent and a formula-based component,the latter of which consists of a
statistical calculation and adjustments to the statistical calculation.For fur-

ther discussion of the components of the allowance for credit losses,see

Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm on page 83 and Note 13 on
pages 113Œ114of this Annual Report.At December 31,2006,management

deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e.,sufficient to

absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio,including losses that are not

specifically identified or for which the size of the loss has not yet been fully
determined).MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
76JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The Allowance for credit losses increased by $313 million from December 31,
2005,primarily due to activity in the wholesale portfolio.New lending activity

in IB and CB was offset partially by lower wholesale nonperforming loans.

Additionally,there was a release of $157 million of Allowance for loan losses

related to Hurricane Katrina in the consumer and wholesale portfolios.
Excluding held-for-sale loans,the Allowance for loan losses represented
1.70% of loans at December 31,2006,compared with 1.84% at December

31,2005.The wholesale component of the allowance increased to $2.7 bil-

lion as of December 31,2006,from $2.5 billion at year-end 2005,due to

loan growth in the IB and CB,including the acquisition of The Bank of New

York loan portfolio.The consumer allowance decreased $69 million,which

included a release of $98 million in CS,partially offset by a $29 million build

in RFS.The Allowance release by CS was primarily the result of releasing the

remaining Allowance for loan loss related to Hurricane Katrina established in
2005.Excluding the allowance release for Hurricane Katrina,CS™ Allowance
for loan losses remained constant as improved credit quality offset the
increase of $14.1 billion in loan receivables subject to the Allowance.The RFS

build was primarily the result of loans acquired in The Bank of New York

transaction.
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the Firm™s process of extending
credit,management also computes an asset-specific component and a formu-

la-based component for wholesale lending-related commitments.These com-

ponents are computed using a methodology similar to that used for the
wholesale loan portfolio,modified for expected maturities and probabilities of

drawdown.This allowance,which is reported in Other liabilities,was $524

million and $400 million at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.The

increase reflected increased lending-related commitments and updates to
inputs used in the calculation.Provision for credit losses
For a discussion of the reported Provision for credit losses,see page 29 of this Annual Report.The managed provision for credit
 losses includes credit card securiti-
zations.For the year ended December 31,2006,securitized credit card losses were lower compared with the prior-year periods,prim
arily as a result of lower bank-ruptcy-related charge-offs.At December 31,2006,securitized credit card outstandings were $3.6 billion lower compared with the p
rior year end.Provision forYear ended December 31,Provision for loan losseslending-related commitmentsTotal provision for credit losses
(c)(in millions)200620052004
(b)200620052004
(b)2006(a)2005(a)2004(b)Investment Bank$112
$(757)$(525)
$79
$(81)$(115)
$191
$(838)$(640)
Commercial Banking1338735
27(14)6
1607341
Treasury & Securities Services
(1)(1)7
Š1Š(1)Š7Asset Management(30)(55)(12)
2(1)(2)
(28)(56)(14)
Corporate
(1)10975
ŠŠ(227)
(1)10748
Total Wholesale213
(716)480
108(95)(338)
321(811)142
Retail Financial Services552721450
93(1)
561724449
Card Services2,3883,5701,953
Š ŠŠ2,3883,5701,953
Total Consumer2,940
4,2912,403
93(1)
2,9494,2942,402
Total provision for credit losses3,153
(a)3,575(a)2,883117(92)(339)
3,2703,4832,544
Credit card securitization2,2103,7762,898
ŠŠŠ2,2103,7762,898
Total managed provision for credit losses$5,363
$7,351$5,781
$117
$(92)$(339)
$5,480$7,259$5,442
(a)2006 includes a $157 million release of Allowance for loan losses related to Hurricane Katrina.2005 includes $400 million of
 allowance related to Hurricane Katrina.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
(c)The 2004 provision for loan losses includes an increase of approximately $1.4 billion as a result of the decertification of 
heritage Bank One seller™s interest in credit card securitizations,
partially offset by a reduction of $357 million to conform provision methodologies.The 2004 provision for lending-related commi
tments reflects a reduction of $227 million to conform provisionmethodologies in the wholesale portfolio.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
77MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT Market risk is the exposure to an adverse change in the market value of port-
folios and financial instruments caused by a change in market prices or rates.
Market risk management 
Market risk is identified,measured,monitored,and controlled by an independent

corporate risk governance function.Market risk management seeks to facilitate

efficient risk/return decisions,reduce volatility in operating performance and make

the Firm™s market risk profile transparent to senior management,the Board of

Directors and regulators.Market risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk

Officer and performs the following primary functions:et risk policy framework
Independent measurement,monitoring and control 
of business segment market risk
approval and monitoring of limits

erformance of stress testing and qualitative risk assessments
The Firm™s business segments also have valuation teams whose functions are to

provide independent oversight of the accuracy of the valuations of positions that

expose the Firm to market risk.These valuation functions reside within the market

risk management area and have a reporting line into Finance.
Risk identification and classificationThe market risk management group works in partnership with the business

segments to identify market risks throughout the Firm and to refine and mon-

itor market risk policies and procedures.All business segments are responsible

for comprehensive identification and verification of market risks within their

units.Risk-taking businesses have functions that act independently from trad-

ing personnel and are responsible for verifying risk exposures that the busi-
ness takes.In addition to providing independent oversight for market risk

arising from the business segments,Market risk management also is responsi-

ble for identifying exposures which may not be large within individual busi-
ness segments,but which may be large for the Firm in aggregate.Regular

meetings are held between Market risk management and the heads of risk-

taking businesses to discuss and decide on risk exposures in the context of
the market environment and client flows.
Positions that expose the Firm to market risk can be classified into two cate-
gories:trading and nontrading risk.Trading risk includes positions that are held

by the Firm as part of a business segment or unit whose main business strategy

is to trade or make markets.Unrealized gains and losses in these positions are

generally reported in Principal transactions revenue.Nontrading risk includes

securities and other assets held for longer-term investment,mortgage servic-

ing rights,and securities and 
derivatives used to manage the Firm™s asset/liabil-
ity exposures.Unrealized gains 
and losses in these positions are generally not
reported in Principal transactions revenue.
Trading risk
Fixed income risk (which includes interest rate risk and credit spread risk),

foreign exchange,equities and commodities and other trading risks involve

the potential decline in Net income or financial condition due to adverse
changes in market rates,whether arising from client activities or proprietary

positions taken by the Firm.
Nontrading risk
Nontrading risk arises from execution of the Firm™s core business strategies,

the delivery of products and services to its customers,and the discretionary

positions the Firm undertakes to risk-manage exposures.
These exposures can result from a variety of factors,including differences 
in the timing among the maturity or repricing of assets,liabilities and 

offŒbalance sheet instruments.Changes in the level and shape of market

interest rate curves also may create interest rate risk,since the repricing 

characteristics of the Firm™s assets do not necessarily match those of its 

liabilities.The Firm also is exposed to basis risk,which is the difference in 

repricing characteristics of two floating-rate indices,such as the prime rate

and 3-month LIBOR.In addition,some of the Firm™s products have embedded

optionality that impact pricing and balances.
The Firm™s mortgage banking activities also give rise to complex interest rate

risks.The interest rate exposure from the Firm™s mortgage banking activities 

is a result of changes in the level of interest rates,as well as option and basis

risk.Option risk arises primarily from prepayment options embedded in mort-

gages and changes in the probability of newly originated mortgage commit-
ments actually closing.Basis risk results from different relative movements

between mortgage rates and other interest rates.
Risk measurement
Tools used to measure risk

Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk,the Firm

uses various metrics,both statistical and nonstatistical,including:
Nonstatistical risk measures
Value-at-risk (ﬁVARﬂ)



Economic value stress testing



Risk identification for large exposures (ﬁRIFLEﬂ)
Nonstatistical risk measures
Nonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net open positions,

basis point values,option sensitivities,market values,position concentrations

and position turnover.These measures provide granular information on the

Firm™s market risk exposure.They are aggregated by line of business and by risk

type,and are used for monitoring limits,one-off approvals and tactical control.
Value-at-risk 
JPMorgan Chase™s primary statistical risk measure,VAR,estimates the potential

loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment and 

provides a consistent cross-business measure of risk profiles and levels of
diversification.VAR is used for comparing risks across businesses,monitoring

limits,one-off approvals,and as an input to economic capital calculations.

VAR provides risk transparency in a normal trading environment.Each busi-

ness day the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VAR calculation that includes

both its trading and its nontrading risks.VAR for nontrading 
risk measures theamount of potential change in the fair values of the exposures
related to theserisks;however,for such risks,VAR is not a measure of reported revenue since

nontrading activities are generally not marked to market through earnings.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
78JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
To calculate VAR,the Firm uses historical simulation,which measures risk
across instruments and portfolios in a consistent and comparable way.This

approach assumes that historical changes in market values are representative

of future changes.The simulation is based upon data for the previous twelve
months.The Firm calculates VAR using a one-day time horizon and an expected
tail-loss methodology,which approximates a 99% confidence level.This means
the Firm would expect to incur losses greater than that predicted by VAR esti-

mates only once in every 100 trading days,or about two to three times a 
year.
IB Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR
IB trading VAR by risk type and credit portfolio VAR
20062005As of or for the year ended AverageMinimum  MaximumAverageMinimumMaximumAt December 31,
December 31,(in millions)VARVARVARVARVARVAR
20062005By risk type:Fixed income$56$35$94
$67$37$110
$44
$89
Foreign exchange
221442
231632
2719Equities311850
341565
4924Commodities and other4522128
21750
4134Less:portfolio diversification
(70)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(59)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(62)(c)(63)(c)Trading VAR
(a)8455137
8653130
99103Credit portfolio VAR
(b)151219
141117
1515Less:portfolio diversification
(11)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(12)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(10)(c)(10)(c)Total trading and credit
portfolio VAR$88$61$138
$88$57$130
$104
$108
(a)Trading VAR does not include VAR related to the MSR portfolio or VAR related to other corporate functions,such as Treasury a
nd Private Equity.For a discussion of MSRs and the corporate functions,
see pages 53Œ54 and Note 16 on pages 121Œ122 of this Annual Report,respectively.Trading VAR includes substantially all trading 
activities in IB;however,particular risk parameters of certain prod-
ucts are not fully captured,for example,correlation risk.
(b)Includes VAR on derivative credit valuation adjustments,hedges of the credit valuation adjustment and mark-to-market hedges 
of the accrual loan portfolio,which are all reported in Principal transac-
tions revenue.This VAR does not include the accrual loan portfolio,which is not marked to market.
(c)Average and period-end VARs are less than the sum of the VARs of its market risk components,which is due to risk offsets res
ulting from portfolio diversification.The diversification effect reflects 
the fact that the risks are not perfectly correlated.The risk of a portfolio of positions is therefore usually less than the su
m of the risks of the positions themselves.
(d)Designated as not meaningful (ﬁNMﬂ) because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk component
s,and hence it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio 
diversification effect.Investment Bank™s average Total Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR was $88 mil-
lion for both 2006 and 2005.Commodities and other VAR increased due to

continued expansion of the energy trading business,while Fixed income VAR

decreased due to reduced risk positions,as well as to lower market volatility

compared with 2005.These changes also led to an increase in portfolio diver-

sification,as Average Trading VAR diversification increased to $70 million,or

45% of the sum of the components,during 2006;from $59 million,or 41% of

the sum of the components,during 2005.In general,over the course of the

year,VAR exposures can vary significantly as positions change,market volatility

fluctuates and diversification benefits change.
VAR back-testing

To evaluate the soundness of its VAR model,the Firm conducts daily back-testing

of VAR against daily IB market risk-related revenue,which is defined as the

change in value of Principal transactions revenue less Private Equity gains/losses

plus any trading-related net interest income,brokerage commissions,underwrit-

ing fees or other revenue.The following histogram illustrates the daily market

risk-related gains and losses for IB trading businesses for the year ended

December 31,2006.The chart shows that IB posted market risk-related gains on

227 out of 260 days in this period,with 29 days exceeding $100 million.The

inset graph looks at those days on which IB experienced losses and depicts the

amount by which VAR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days.Losses

were sustained on 33 days,with no loss greater than $100 million,and with no

loss exceeding the VAR measure.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
79< (40)10 > < 200 > < 1020 > < 3030 > < 4040 > < 5050 > < 6060 > < 7070 > < 8080 > < 9090 > < 100100 > < 110 > 140(10) > < 0(20) > < (10)Daily IB market risk-related gains and losses
                  Year ended December 31, 2006
  Number of trading days
Average daily 
revenue: $48 million
  05101520253035$ in millions510
15 < 00 > < 2020 > < 4040 > < 6060 > < 80 > 100$ in millionsNumber of trading days 
Daily IB VAR less market risk-related losses
80 > < 100110 > < 120(40) > < (30)(30) > < (20)130 > < 140120 > < 130Loss advisoriesLoss advisories are tools used to highlight to senior management trading

losses above certain levels and are used to initiate discussion of remedies.
Economic value stress testing
While VAR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in normal markets,
stress testing captures the Firm™s exposure to unlikely but plausible events in

abnormal markets.The Firm conducts economic-value stress tests for both its

trading and its nontrading activities at least once a month using multiple sce-

narios that assume credit spreads widen significantly,equity prices decline and

interest rates rise in the major currencies.Additional scenarios focus on the

risks predominant in individual business segments and include scenarios that
focus on the potential for adverse moves in complex portfolios.Periodically,

scenarios are reviewed and updated to reflect changes in the Firm™s risk profile

and economic events.Along with VAR,stress testing is important in measuring

and controlling risk.Stress testing enhances the understanding of the Firm™s

risk profile and loss potential,and stress losses are monitored against limits.

Stress testing is also utilized in one-off approvals and cross-business risk

measurement,as well as an input to economic capital allocation.Stress-test

results,trends and explanations are provided each month to the Firm™s senior

management and to the lines of business to help them better measure and
manage risks and to understand event risk-sensitive positions.
Earnings-at-risk stress testing
The VAR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total economic

sensitivity of the Firm™s balance sheet to changes in market variables.The

effect of interest rate exposure on reported Net income also is critical.Interest

rate risk exposure in the Firm™s core nontrading business activities (i.e.,

asset/liability management positions) results from onŒ and offŒbalance sheet
positions.The Firm conducts simulations of changes in NII from its nontrading

activities under a variety of interest rate scenarios.Earnings-at-risk tests

measure the potential change in the Firm™s Net interest income over the next

12 months and highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors,such as

the rates themselves (e.g.,the prime lending rate),pricing strategies on

deposits,optionality and changes in product mix.The tests include forecasted

balance sheet changes,such as asset sales and securitizations,as well as 

prepayment and reinvestment behavior.
Earnings-at-risk also can result from changes in the slope of the yield curve,
because the Firm has the ability to lend at fixed rates and borrow at variable

or short-term fixed rates.Based upon these scenarios,the Firm™s earnings

would be affected negatively by a sudden and unanticipated increase in
short-term rates without a corresponding increase in long-term rates.Conversely,

higher long-term rates generally are beneficial to earnings,particularly when

the increase is not accompanied by rising short-term rates.
80JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk,and so a
number of alternative scenarios also are reviewed.These scenarios include the
implied forward curve,nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rate shocks

on selected key rates.These scenarios are intended to provide a comprehensive

view of JPMorgan Chase™s earnings-at-risk over a wide range of outcomes.
JPMorgan Chase™s 12-month pretax earnings sensitivity profile as of

December 31,2006 and 2005,were as follows:
Immediate change in rates
(in millions)+200bp+100bp-100bp-200bp
December 31,2006
$(101)$28$(21)$(182)
December 31,2005265172(162)(559)
The primary change in earnings-at-risk from December 31,2005,reflects a
higher level of AFS securities and other repositioning.The Firm is exposed to

both rising and falling rates.The Firm™s risk to rising rates is largely the result

of increased funding costs.In contrast,the exposure to falling rates is the

result of higher anticipated levels of loan and securities prepayments.
Risk identification for large exposures (ﬁRIFLEﬂ)

Individuals who manage risk positions,particularly those that are complex,

are responsible for identifying potential losses that could arise from specific,
unusual events,such as a potential tax change,and estimating the probabilities

of losses arising from such events.This information is entered into the Firm™s

RIFLE database.Trading management has access to RIFLE,thereby permitting

the Firm to monitor further earnings vulnerability not adequately covered by

standard risk measures.
Risk monitoring and control
LimitsMarket risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits.Limits reflect the

Firm™s risk appetite in the context of the market environment and business

strategy.In setting limits,the Firm takes into consideration factors such as mar-

ket volatility,product liquidity,business trends and management experience.
Market risk management regularly reviews and updates risk limits.Senior

management,including the Firm™s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Risk

Officer,is responsible for reviewing and approving risk limits at least once a

year.Market risk management further controls the Firm™s exposure by specifi-

cally designating approved financial instruments and tenors,known as instru-

ment authorities,for each business segment.
The Firm maintains different levels of limits.Corporate-level limits include VAR
and stress.Similarly,line-of-business limits include VAR and stress limits and

may be supplemented by loss advisories,nonstatistical measurements and

instrument authorities.Businesses are responsible for adhering to established

limits,against which exposures are monitored and reported.Limit breaches

are reported in a timely manner to senior management,and the affected

business segment is required either to reduce trading positions or consult with
senior management on the appropriate action.Qualitative review

The market risk management group also performs periodic reviews as neces-

sary of both businesses and products with exposure to market risk in order to

assess the ability of the businesses to control their market risk.Strategies,

market conditions,product details and risk controls are reviewed,and specific

recommendations for improvements are made to management.Model review
Some of the Firm™s financial instruments cannot be valued based upon quoted

market prices but are instead valued using pricing models.Such models are

used for management of risk positions,such as reporting against limits,as well

as for valuation.The Model Risk Group,independent of the businesses and

market risk management,
reviews the models the Firm uses and assessesmodel appropriatenessand 
consistency.The model reviews consider a number
of factors about the model™s suitability for valuation and risk management of

a particular product,including whether it accurately reflects the characteristics

of the transaction and its 
significant risks,the suitability and convergence
properties of numericalalgorithms,reliability of data sources,consistency of

the treatment with modelsfor 
similar products,and sensitivity to input param-
eters and assumptions that cannot be priced from the market.
Reviews are conducted of new or changed models,as well as previously
accepted models,to assess whether there have been any changes in the

product or market that may impact the model™s validity and whether there 

are theoretical or competitive developments that may require reassessment 

of the model™s adequacy.For a summary of valuations based upon models,

see Critical Accounting Estimates used by the Firm on pages 83Œ85 of this

Annual Report.Risk reporting
Nonstatistical exposures,value-at-risk,loss advisories and limit excesses are

reported daily for each trading and nontrading business.Market risk exposure

trends,value-at-risk trends,profit and loss changes,and portfolio concentra-

tions are reported weekly.Stress-test results are reported monthly to business

and senior management.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
81OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes
or systems,human factors or external events.
OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm™s businesses and support

activities.Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways,including errors,

fraudulent acts,business interruptions,inappropriate behavior of employees

or vendors that do not perform in accordance with outsourcing arrangements.
These events could result in financial losses and other damage to the Firm,

includingreputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk,the Firm maintains a system of com-
prehensive policies and a control framework designed to provide a sound and

well-controlled operational environment.The goal is to keep operational risk at

appropriate levels,in light of the Firm™s financial strength,the characteristics

of its businesses,the markets in which it operates,and the competitive and

regulatory environment to which it is subject.Notwithstanding these 

control measures,the Firm incurs operational losses.
The Firm™s approach to operational risk management is intended to mitigate such
losses by supplementing traditional control-based approaches to operational

risk with risk measures,tools and disciplines that are risk-specific,consistently

applied and utilized firmwide.Key themes are transparency of information,

escalation of key issues and accountability for issue resolution.
The Firm™s operational risk framework is supported by Phoenix,an internally
designed operational risk software tool.Phoenix integrates the individual

components of the operational risk management framework into a unified,

web-based tool.Phoenix enhances the capture,reporting and analysis of

operational risk data by enabling risk identification,measurement,monitor-

ing,reporting and analysis to be done in an integrated manner,thereby

enabling efficiencies in the Firm™s monitoring and management of its opera-

tional risk.For purposes of identification,monitoring,reporting and analysis,the Firm
categorizes operational risk events as follows:

actices

raud,theft and malice

delivery and process management





Technology and infrastructure failures
Risk identification and measurement
Risk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that 

management believes may give rise to operational losses.
All businesses utilize the Firm™s newly redesigned firmwide self-assessment
process and supporting architecture as a dynamic risk management tool.The

goal of the self-assessment process is for each business to identify the key

operational risks specific to its environment and assess the degree to which it

maintains appropriate controls.Action plans are developed for control issues

identified,and businesses are held accountable for tracking and resolving

these issues on a timely basis.
Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data,permitting

analysis of errors and losses as well as trends.Such analysis,performed both

at a line-of-business level and by risk-event type,enables identification of the

causes associated with risk events faced by the businesses.Where available,

the internal data can be supplemented with external data for comparative

analysis with industry patterns.The data reported enables the Firm to back-

test against self-assessment results.The Firm is a founding member of the

Operational Risk Data Exchange,a not-for-profit industry association formed

for the purpose of collecting operational loss data and sharing data in an

anonymous form and benchmarking results back to members.Such informa-

tion supplements the Firm™s ongoing operational risk analysis.
Risk reporting and analysis
Operational risk management reports provide timely and accurate information,

including information about actual operational loss levels and self-assessment

results,to the lines of business and senior management.The purpose of these

reports is to enable management to maintain operational risk at appropriate

levels within each line of business,to escalate issues and to provide consistent

data aggregation across the Firm™s businesses and support areas.
Audit alignment Internal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to provide an

independent assessment of the design and effectiveness of key controls over

the Firm™s operations,regulatory compliance and reporting.Audit partners

with business management and members of the control community in providing
guidance on the operational risk framework and reviewing the effectiveness

and accuracy of the business self-assessment process as part of its business

unit audits.
PRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk management
The Firm makes direct principal investments in private equity.The illiquid nature

and long-term holding period associated with these investments differentiates
private equity risk from the risk of positions held in the trading portfolios.

The Firm™s approach to managing private equity risk is consistent with the

Firm™s general risk governance structure.Controls are in place establishing

target levels for total and annual investment in order to control the overall

size of the portfolio.Industry and geographic concentration limits are in place

and intended to ensure diversification of the portfolio;and periodic reviews
are performed on the portfolio to substantiate the valuations of the invest-

ments.The valuation function within Market risk management that reports

into Finance is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of

private equity investments 
held by Private Equity.At December 31,2006,the
carrying value of the priv
ateequity businesses was $6.1 billion,of which $587
million represented positions traded in the public market.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
82JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
A firm™s success depends not only on its prudent management of the liquidity,
credit,market and operational risks that are part of its business risks,but

equally on the maintenance among many constituents Œ clients,investors,

regulators,as well as the general public Œ of a reputation for business practices

of the highest quality.Attention to reputation always has been a key aspect

of the Firm™s practices,and maintenance of reputation is the responsibility of

everyone at the Firm.JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individual responsibility 

in many ways,including through the Firm™s Code of Conduct,training,main-

taining adherence to policies and procedures,and oversight functions that

approve transactions.These oversight functions include a Conflicts Office,

which examines wholesale transactions with the potential to create conflicts

of interest for the Firm,and a Policy Review Office that reviews certain trans-

actions with clients,especially complex derivatives and structured finance

transactions that have the potential to affect adversely the Firm™s reputation.
Policy Review Office
The Policy Review Office is the most senior approval level for client transactions
involving reputation risk issues.The mandate of the Policy Review Office is to

opine on specific transactions brought by the Regional Reputation Risk Review

Committees and consider changes in policies or practices relating to reputation

risk.The head of the Policy Review Office consults with the Firm™s most senior

executives on specific topics and provides regular updates.The Policy Review

Office reinforces the Firm™s procedures for examining transactions in terms of

appropriateness,ethical issues and reputation risk.It focuses on the purpose

and effect of its transactions from the client™s point of view,with the goal that

these transactions are not used to mislead investors or others.
Primary responsibility for adherence to the policies and procedures designed
to address reputation risk lies with the business units conducting the transac-

tions in question.The Firm™s transaction approval process requires review

from,among others,internal legal/compliance,conflicts,tax and accounting

groups.Transactions involving an SPE established by the Firm receive particu-

lar scrutiny intended to ensure that every such entity is properly approved,
documented,monitored and controlled.
Business units also are required to submit to regional Reputation Risk ReviewCommittees proposed transactions that may give rise to heightened reputa-

tion risk.The committees may approve,reject or require further clarification

on or changes to the transactions.The members of these committees are sen-

ior representatives of the business and support units in the region.The com-

mittees may escalate transaction review to the Policy Review Office.
Fiduciary risk managementThe risk management committees within each line of business include in 

their mandate the oversight of the legal,reputational and,where appropriate,

fiduciary risks in their businesses that may produce significant losses or 
reputational damage.The Fiduciary Risk Management function works with the

relevant line-of-business risk committees with the goal of ensuring that busi-

nesses providinginvestment or risk management products or services thatgive rise to fiduciary duties to clients perform at the appropriate standard rel-
ative to their fiduciary relationship with a client.Of particular focus are the

policies and practices that address a business™ responsibilities to a client,

including client suitability determination,disclosure obligations and communi-

cations,and performance expectations with respect to risk management

products or services being provided by the Firm,that give rise to such fiduciary
duties.In this way,the relevant line-of-business 
risk committees,together with
the Fiduciary Risk Management function,provide oversight of the Firm™s

efforts to monitor,measure and control the risks that may arise in the delivery

of the products or services to clients that give rise to such duties,as well as

those stemming from any of the Firm™s fiduciary responsibilities to employees

under the Firm™s various employee benefit plans.
REPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
83JPMorgan Chase™s accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to
understanding its reported results.The Firm™s most complex accounting 

estimates require management™s judgment to ascertain the valuation of

assets and liabilities.The Firm has established detailed policies and control

procedures intended to ensure that valuation methods,including any judgments

made as part of such methods,are well-controlled,independently reviewed

and applied consistently from period to period.In addition,the policies and

procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies
occurs in an appropriate manner.The Firm believes its estimates for determin-

ing the valuation of its assets and liabilities are appropriate.The following is a

brief description of the Firm™s critical accounting estimates involving signifi-

cant valuation judgments.
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for credit losses covers the wholesale and 

consumer loan portfolios as well as the Firm™s portfolio of wholesale lending-

related commitments.The Allowance for credit losses is intended to adjust the

value of the Firm™s loan assets for probable credit losses as of the balance

sheet date.For further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing

the Firm™s Allowance for credit losses,see Note 13 on pages 113Œ114of this

Annual Report.Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating both the Allowance for loan losses and the

Allowance for lending-related commitments involves significant judgment.

First and foremost,it involves the early identification of credits that are deteri-

orating.Second,it involves judgment in establishing the inputs used to esti-

mate the allowances.Third,it involves management judgment to evaluate cer-

tain macroeconomic factors,underwriting standards,and other relevant inter-

nal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio
and to refine loss factors to better reflect these conditions.
The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine the credit quality of its whole-
sale loans.Wholesale loans are reviewed for information affecting the oblig-

or™s ability to fulfill its obligations.In assessing the risk rating of a particular

loan,among the factors considered are the obligor™s debt capacity and finan-

cial flexibility,the level of the obligor™s earnings,the amount and sources for

repayment,the level and nature of contingencies,management strength,and

the industry and geography in which the obligor operates.These factors are

based upon an evaluation of historical and current information,and involve

subjective assessment and interpretation.Emphasizing one factor over anoth-

er or considering additional factors could impact the risk rating assigned by

the Firm to that loan.The Firm applies its judgment to establish loss factors used in calculating the
allowances.Wherever possible,the Firm uses independent,verifiable data or

the Firm™s own historical loss experience in its models for estimating the

allowances.Many factors can affect estimates of loss,including volatility of

loss given default,probability of default and rating migrations.Consideration

is given as to whether the loss estimates should be calculated as an average

over the entire credit cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle,as well

as to which external data should be used and when they should be used.
Choosing data that are not reflective of the Firm™s specific loan portfolio char-

acteristics could also affect loss estimates.The application of different inputs

would change the amount of the allowance for credit losses determined

appropriate by the Firm.Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors derived,tak-
ing into consideration model imprecision,external factors and economic events

that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors.The resultant

adjustments to the statistical calculation on the performing portfolio are deter-
mined by creating estimated ranges using historical experience of both loss

given default and probability of default.Factors related to concentrated and

deteriorating industries also are incorporated where relevant.The estimated

ranges and the determination of the appropriate point within the range are

based upon management™s view of uncertainties that relate to current macro-

economic and political conditions,quality of underwriting standards and other

relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the current

portfolio.The adjustment to the statistical calculation for the wholesale loan

portfolio for the period ended December 31,2006,was $903 million based

upon management™s assessment of current economic conditions.
Consumer loans
For scored loans in the consumer lines of business,loss is determined primarily

by applying statistical loss factors and other risk indicators to pools of loans by
asset type.These loss estimates are sensitive to changes in delinquency status,

credit bureau scores,the realizable value of collateral and other risk factors.
Adjustments to the statistical calculation are accomplished in part by analyzingthe historical loss experience for each major product segment.Management

analyzes the range of credit loss experienced for each major portfolio segment,

taking into account economic cycles,portfolio seasoning and underwriting 

criteria,and then formulates a range that incorporates relevant risk factors that

impact overall credit performance.The recorded adjustment to the statistical

calculation for the period ended December 31,2006,was $1.2 billion based

upon management™s assessment of current economic conditions.
Fair value of financial instruments,MSRs and commodities inventory 
A portion of JPMorgan Chase™s assets and liabilities are carried at fair value,

including trading assets and liabilities,AFS securities,private equity investments

and mortgage servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ).Held-for-sale loans and physical com-

modities are carried at the lower of fair value or cost.At December 31,2006,

approximately $526.8 billion of the Firm™s assets were recorded at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the
instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing 

parties,other than in a forced or liquidation sale.The majority of the Firm™s assets

reported at fair value are based upon quoted market prices or upon internally 

developed models that utilize independently sourced market parameters,

including interest rate yield curves,option volatilities and currency rates.
The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value
of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted market

prices or observable market parameters.For financial instruments that are

traded actively and have quoted market prices or parameters readily available,

there is little-to-no subjectivity in determining fair value.When observable

market prices and parameters do 
not exist,management judgment 
is necessaryto estimate fair value.The valuation process takes into consideration 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
84JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
factors such as liquidity and concentration concerns and,for the derivatives
portfolio,counterparty credit risk (For a discussion of CVA,see Derivative con-

tracts on pages 69Œ72 of this Annual Report).For example,there is often lim-

ited market data to rely on when estimating the fair value of a large or aged

position.Similarly,judgment must be applied in estimating prices for less

readily observable external parameters.Finally,other factors such as model

assumptions,market dislocations and unexpected correlations can affect esti-

mates of fair value.Imprecision in estimating these factors can impact the

amount of revenue or loss recorded for a particular position.Trading and available-for-sale portfoliosThe majority of the Firm™s securities held for trading and investment 

purposes (ﬁlongﬂpositions) and securities that the Firm has sold to other 

parties but does not own (ﬁshortﬂpositions) are valued based upon quoted

market prices.However,certain securities are traded less actively and,therefore,

are not always able to be valued based upon quoted market prices.The 

determination of their fair value requires management judgment,as this

determination may require benchmarking to similar instruments or analyzing
default and recovery rates.Examples include certain collateralized mortgage

and debt obligations and high-yield debt securities.
As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange,the majority of the
Firm™s derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that

use as their basis readily observable market parameters Œ that is,parameters

that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources,including

industry-pricing services.Certain derivatives,however,are valued based upon

models with significant unobservable market parameters Œ that is,parameters

that must be estimated and are,therefore,subject to management judgment

to substantiate the model valuation.These instruments are normally either

traded less actively or trade activity is one way.Examples include long-dated

interest rate or currency swaps,where swap rates may be unobservable for

longer maturities,and certain credit products,where correlation and recovery

rates are unobservable.Due to the lack of observable market data,the Firm

defers the initial trading profit for these financial 
instruments.The def
erred profitis recognized in Principal transactions revenue on a systematic basis (typically

straight-line amortization over the life of the instruments) when observablemar-

ket data becomes available.Management™s judgment includes recording fair

value adjustments (i.e.,reductions) 
to model valuations to 
account for param-
eter uncertainty when valuing complex or less 
actively traded
derivative trans-
actions.The following table summarizes the Firm™s trading and available-for-

sale portfolios by valuation methodology at December 31,2006:
Trading assetsTrading liabilities
SecuritiesSecuritiesAFS
December 31,2006purchased
(a)Derivatives
(b)sold(a)Derivatives
(b)securitiesFair value based upon:
Quoted market prices
83%3%97%3%97%
Internal models with significant
observable market parameters
13963953
Internal models with significantunobservable market parameters
41Š2Š
Total 100%100%100%100%100%
(a)Reflected as debt and equity instruments on the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets.
(b)Based upon gross mark-to-market valuations of the Firm™s derivatives portfolio prior to netting positions pursuant to FIN 39
,as cross-product netting is not relevant to an analysis based upon valua-
tion methodologies.
To ensure that the valuations are appropriate,the Firm has various controls in
place.These include:an independent review and approval of valuation models;

detailed review and explanation for profit and loss analyzed daily and over
time;decomposing the model valuations for certain structured derivative

instruments into their components and benchmarking valuations,where possible,

to similar products;and validating valuation estimates through actual cash

settlement.As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain 

derivative products becomes more transparent,the Firm continues to refine its

valuation methodologies.
For further discussion of market risk management,including the model review
process,see Market risk management on pages 77Œ80of this Annual Report.

For further details regarding the Firm™s valuation methodologies,see Note 31

on pages 135Œ137of this Annual Report.
Loans held-for-saleThe fair value of loans in the held-for-sale portfolio generally is based upon

observable market prices of similar instruments,including bonds,credit 

derivatives and loans with similar characteristics.If market prices are not

available,fair value is based upon the estimated cash flows adjusted for credit

risk that is discounted using an interest rate appropriate for the maturity of

the applicable loans.
Commodities inventoryThe majority of commodities inventory includes bullion and base metals

where fair value is determined by reference to prices in highly active and 

liquid markets.The fair value of other commodities inventory is determined

primarily using prices and data derived from the markets
on which the underly-ing commodities are traded.Market prices used may be adjusted for liquidity.
Private equity investmentsValuation of private investments held primarily by the Private Equity business

within Corporate requires significant management judgment due to the

absence of quoted market prices,inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term

nature of such assets.Private equity investments are valued initially based

upon cost.The carrying values of private 
equity investments are adjusted fromcost to reflect both positive and negative changes evidenced by financing
events with third-party capital providers.In addition,these investments are

subject to ongoing impairment reviews by Private Equity™s senior investment
professionals.A variety
of factors are reviewed and monitored to assessimpairment including,but not 
limited to,operating performance and future
expectations of the particularpo
rtfolio investment,industry valuations of com-
parable public companies,changes in market outlook and the third-party

financing environment over time.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
85For a discussion of the accounting for Private equity investments,see Note 4
on pages 98Œ99of this Annual Report.
MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizationsMSRs and certain other retained interests from securitization activities do not
trade in an active,open market with readily observable prices.For example,

sales of MSRs do occur,but the precise terms and conditions typically are not

readily available.Accordingly,the Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs and

certain other retained interests in securitizations using discounted future cash
flow (DCF) models.
For MSRs,the Firm uses an option adjusted spread (ﬁOASﬂ) valuation model
in conjunction with the Firm™s proprietary prepayment model to project MSR

cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios,which are then discounted at

risk-adjusted rates to estimate an expected fair value of the MSRs.The OAS

model considers portfolio characteristics,contractually specified servicing fees,

prepayment assumptions,delinquency rates,late charges,other ancillary rev-

enues,costs to service and other economic factors.
For certain other retained interests in securitizations (such as interest-only
strips),a single interest rate path DCF model is used and generally includes

assumptions based upon projected finance charges related to the securitized
assets,estimated net credit losses,prepayment assumptions,and contractual

interest paid to third-party investors.Changes in the assumptions used may

have a significant impact on the Firm™s valuation of retained interests.
For both MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizations,the Firm
compares its fair value estimates and assumptions to observable market data

where available and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience.
For further discussion of the most significant assumptions used to value

retained interests in securitizations and MSRs,as well as the applicable stress

tests for those assumptions,see Notes 14 and 16 on pages 114Œ118 and

121Œ122,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Goodwill impairmentUnder SFAS 142,goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for

impairment.The Firm tests goodwill for impairment at least annually,and more

frequently if events or circumstances,such as adverse changes in the business

climate,indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test.

Impairment testing is performed at the reporting-unit level (which is generally

one level below the six major business segments identified in Note 33 on 
pages 139Œ141of this Annual Report,plus Private Equity which is included in

Corporate).The first part of the test is a comparison,at the reporting unit level,

of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount,including good-

will.If the fair value is less than the carrying value,then the second part of the

test is needed to measure the amount of potential goodwill impairment.The

implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is calculated and compared

with the carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the Firm™s financial records.

If the carrying value of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of

that goodwill,then the Firm would recognize an impairment loss in the amount

of the difference,which would be recorded as a charge against Net income.
The fair values of the reporting units are determined using discounted cash
flow models based upon each reporting unit™s internal forecasts.In addition,

analysis using market-based trading and transaction multiples,where available,

are used to assess the reasonableness of the valuations derived from the 

discounted cash flow models.
Accounting for share-based payments
Effective January 1,2006,the Firm adopted SFAS 123R and all related inter-

pretations using the modified prospective transition method.SFAS 123R

requires all share-based payments to employees,including employee stock

options and stock-settled stock appreciation right (ﬁSARsﬂ),to be measured

at their grant date fair values.For additional information related to SFAS

123R,see Note 8 on pages 105Œ107 of this Annual Report.
Accounting for certain hybrid financial instruments Œ an amend-
ment of FASB Statements No.133 and 140

In February 2006,the FASB issued SFAS 155,which applies to certain

ﬁhybrid financial instrumentsﬂwhich are defined as financial instruments

that contain embedded derivatives.The new standard establishes a require-

ment to evaluate beneficial interests in securitized financial assets to deter-

mine if the interests represent freestanding derivatives or are hybrid finan-

cial instruments containing embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation.It
also permits an irrevocable election for fair value remeasurement of any
hybrid financial instrument containing an embedded derivative that other-

wise would require bifurcation under SFAS 133.The Firm adopted this stan-

dard effective January 1,2006.For additional information related to SFAS

155,see Note 1 on page 95 of this Annual Report.
Accounting for servicing of financial assetsIn March 2006,the FASB issued SFAS 156,which is effective as of the begin-

ning of the first fiscal year beginning after September 15,2006,with early

adoption permitted.JPMorgan Chase elected to adopt the standard effective

January 1,2006.The standard permits an entity a one-time irrevocable elec-

tion to adopt fair value accounting for a class of servicing assets.The Firm

has defined MSRs as one class of servicing assets for this election.For addi-

tional information related to the Firm™s adoption of SFAS 156 with respect to

MSRs,see Note 16 on pages 
121Œ122 of this Annual Report.
ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
86JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Postretirement benefit plans
In September 2006,the FASB issued SFAS 158,which requires recognitionin

the Consolidated balance sheets of the overfunded or underfunded status of
defined benefit postretirement plans,measured as the difference between

the fair value of plan assets and the amount of the benefit obligation.The

Firm adopted SFAS 158 on a prospective basis on December 31,2006.SFAS

158 has no impact either on the measurement of the Firm™s plan assets or

benefit obligations,or on how the Firm determines its net periodic benefit

costs.For additional information related to SFAS 158,see Note 7 on pages
100Œ105of this Annual Report.
Accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and changes in timingof cash flows related to income taxes generated by a leveraged

lease
In July 2006,the FASB issued two pronouncements:FIN 48,which clarifies

the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized under SFAS 109,

and the related FSP FAS 13-2.FIN 48 addresses the recognition and meas-

urement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken,and also provides

guidance on derecognition,classification,interest and penalties,accounting

in interim periods,and disclosure.FSP FAS 13-2 requires the recalculation of

returns on leveraged leases if there is a change or projected change in the

timing of cash flows relating to income taxes generated by a leveraged

lease.The Firm will apply FIN 48 to all of its income tax positions at the

required effective date of January 1,2007 under the transition provisions of

the Interpretation.JPMorgan Chase currently estimates that the cumulative

effect adjustment to implement FIN 48 will increase the January 1,2007

balance of Retained earnings by approximately $400 million.However,the

standard continues to be interpreted and the FASB is expected to issue

additional guidance on FIN 48,which could affect this estimate.Accordingly,

JPMorgan Chase will continue its assessment of the impact of FIN 48 on its
financial condition and results of operations.The guidance in FSP FAS 13-2

will also be effective for the Firm on January 1,2007.Implementation of

FSP FAS 13-2 is expected to result in immaterial adjustments.
Fair value measurements
In September 2006,the FASB issued SFAS 157,which is effective for fiscal

years beginning after November 15,2007,with early adoption permitted.

SFAS 157 defines fair value,establishes a framework for measuring fair

value,and expands disclosures about assets and liabilities measured at fair

value.The new standard provides a consistent definition of fair value which

focuses on exit price and prioritizes,within a measurement of fair value,the

use of market-based inputs over entity-specific inputs.The standard also

establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based on the

transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the

measurement date.SFAS 157 nullifies the guidance in EITF 02-3 which

required the deferral of profit at inception of a transaction involving a deriv-

ative financial instrument in the absence of observable data supporting the

valuation technique.The standard also eliminates large position discounts

for financial instruments quoted in active markets and requires considera-

tion of nonperformance risk when valuing liabilities.Currently,the fair value

of the Firm™s derivative payables does not incorporate a valuation adjust-

ment to reflect JPMorgan Chase™s credit quality.
The Firm intends to early adopt SFAS 157 effective January 1,2007,and
expects to record a cumulative effect after-tax increase to retained earnings

of approximately $250 million related to the release of profit previously

deferred in accordance with EITF 02-3.In order to determine the amount of

this transition adjustment and to confirm that the Firm™s valuation policies

are consistent with exit price as prescribed by SFAS 157,the Firm reviewed

its derivative valuations in consideration of all available evidence including

recent transactions in the marketplace,indicative pricing services and the

results of back-testing similar transaction types.In addition,the Firm expects

to record adjustments to earnings related to the incorporation of the Firm™s

nonperformance risk in the valuation of liabilities recorded at fair value and

for private equity investments where there is significant market evidence to

support an increase in value but there has been no third-party market trans-

action related to the capital structure of the investment.The application of

SFAS 157 involves judgement and interpretation.The Firm continues to

monitor and evaluate the developing interpretations.
Fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities
In February 2007,the FASB issued SFAS 159,which is effective for fiscal

years beginning after November 15,2007,with early adoption permitted.

SFAS 159 provides an option for companies to elect fair value as an alterna-

tive measurement for selected financial assets,financial liabilities,unrecog-

nized firm commitments,and written loan commitments.Under SFAS 159,

fair value would be used for both the initial and subsequent measurement

of the designated assets,liabilities and commitments,with the changes in

value recognized in earnings.The Firm is reviewing the recently released

standard and assessing what elections it may make as part of an early

adoption effective January 1,2007.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
87In the normal course of business,JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-traded
commodity derivative contracts.To determine the fair value of these contracts,

the Firm uses various fair value estimation techniques,which are primarily

based upon internal models with significant observable market parameters.

The Firm™s nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts are primarily

energy-related contracts.The following table summarizes the changes in fair

value for nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts for the year

ended December 31,2006:
For the year ended 
December 31,2006 (in millions)Asset positionLiability position
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at January 1,2006
$6,951$5,324
Effect of legally enforceable master netting agreements10,01410,078
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at January 1,2006
16,96515,402
Contracts realized or otherwise settled 
during the period(12,417)(12,206)
Fair value of new contracts
21,55421,007
Changes in fair values attributable to 
changes in valuation techniques 

and assumptionsŠŠOther changes in fair value
(601)(317)
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2006
25,50123,886
Effect of legally enforceable master netting agreements(19,671)(19,980)
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2006$
5,830$3,906
The following table indicates the schedule of maturities of nonexchange-
traded commodity derivative contracts at December 31,2006:
December 31,2006 (in millions)Asset positionLiability position
Maturity less than 1 year$10,897$11,039
Maturity 1Œ3 years10,7849,666
Maturity 4Œ5 years2,6301,838
Maturity in excess of 5 years1,1901,343
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2006
25,50123,886
Effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements(19,671)(19,980)
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2006$
5,830$3,906
NONEXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AT FAIR VALUE
88JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Management of JPMorgan Chase & Co.is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.Internal control

over financial reporting is a process designed by,or under the supervision 

of,the Firm™s principal executive and principal financial officers,or persons

performing similar functions,and effected by JPMorgan Chase™s Board of

Directors,management and other personnel,to provide reasonable assurance

regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial

statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.
JPMorgan Chase™s internal control over financial reporting includes those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records,that,in

reasonable detail,accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions

of the Firm™s assets;(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are

recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accor-

dance with generally accepted accounting principles,and that receipts and

expenditures of the Firm are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of JPMorgan Chase™s management and directors;and (3) provide reasonable

assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,

use or disposition of the Firm™s assets that could have a material effect on the

financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations,internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.Also,projections of any evaluation

of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions,or that the degree 

of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
MANAGEMENT™S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Management has completed an assessment of the effectiveness of the Firm™s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,2006.In making

the assessment,management used the framework in ﬁInternal Control Œ

Integrated Frameworkﬂpromulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring

Organizations of the Treadway Commission,commonly referred to as the

ﬁCOSOﬂcriteria.
Based upon the assessment performed,management concluded that as of
December 31,2006,JPMorgan Chase™s internal control over financial reporting

was effective based upon the COSO criteria.Additionally,based upon manage-

ment™s assessment,the Firm 
determined that there were no material weak-nessesin 
its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,2006.
Management™s assessment of the effectiveness of the Firm™s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31,2006,has been audited by

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,JPMorgan Chase™s independent registered public

accounting firm,who also audited the Firm™s financial statements as of and

for the year ended December 31,2006,as stated in their report which is

included herein.James Dimon
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerMichael J.Cavanagh
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 21,2007
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
89Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of JPMorgan Chase & Co.:
We have completed integrated audits of JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s consolidat-
ed financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31,2006,in accordance with the standards of the Public

Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).Our opinions,based on

our audits,are presented below.
Consolidated financial statementsIn our opinion,the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the relat-

ed consolidated statements of income,changes in stockholders' equity and

comprehensive income,and cash flows present fairly,in all material respects,

the financial position of JPMorgan Chase & Co.and its subsidiaries (the

"Company") at December 31,2006 and 2005,and the results of their opera-

tions and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31,2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accept-

ed in the United States of America.These financial statements are the respon-

sibility of the Company™s management.Our responsibility is to express an

opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.We conducted our

audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).Those standards

require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance

about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.An

audit of financial statements includes examining,on a test basis,evidence

supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,assessing

the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by manage-
ment,and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.We believe

that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.Internal control over financial reporting
Also,in our opinion,management™s assessment,included in the accompany-

ing "Management's report on internal control over financial reporting",that

the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31,2006 based on criteria established in Internal Control -

Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations

of the Treadway Commission (COSO),is fairly stated,in all material respects,

based on those criteria.Furthermore,in our opinion,the Company main-

tained,in all material respects,effective internal control over financial report-

ing as of December 31,2006,based on criteria established in Internal Control

- Integrated Framework issued by the COSO.The Company™s management is

responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting.Our responsibility is to express opinions on management™s assess-

ment and on the effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over finan-

cial reporting based on our audit.We conducted our audit of internal control

over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the PublicPRICEWATERHOUSE
COOPERSLLP
ADISONAVENUEEWYORK,NY 10017
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance

about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was main-

tained in all material respects.An audit of internal control over financial

reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over finan-
cial reporting,evaluating management™s assessment,testing and evaluating

the design and operating effectiveness of internal control,and performing

such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances.We

believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to

provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting

and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accor-

dance with generally accepted accounting principles.A company™s internal

control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that,in reasonable detail,accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary

to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles,and that receipts and expenditures of the

company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of manage-
ment and directors of the company;and (iii) provide reasonable assurance

regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,use,or

disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material effect on the

financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations,internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.Also,projections of any evaluation

of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions,or that the degree of

compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
February 21,2007
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
90JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200620052004
(a)RevenueInvestment banking fees$5,520
$4,088$3,536
Principal transactions
10,3467,6695,148
Lending & deposit related fees3,4683,3892,672
Asset management,administration and commissions
11,7259,8917,682
Securities gains (losses)(543)(1,336)338
Mortgage fees and related income5911,054803
Credit card income6,9136,7544,840
Other income2,1752,684826
Noninterest revenue 40,195
34,19325,845
Interest income59,10745,07530,460
Interest expense37,86525,52013,933
Net interest income21,242
19,55516,527
Total net revenue61,437
53,74842,372
Provision for credit losses3,2703,4832,544
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense21,19118,06514,291
Occupancy expense2,3352,2692,058
Technology,communications and equipment expense
3,6533,6023,687
Professional & outside services3,8884,1623,788
Marketing
2,2091,9171,335
Other expense3,2726,1996,537
Amortization of intangibles1,4281,490911
Merger costs3057221,365
Total noninterest expense38,281
38,42633,972
Income from continuing operations before income tax expense19,886
11,8395,856
Income tax expense6,2373,5851,596
Income from continuing operations 
13,6498,2544,260
Income from discontinued operations 
795229206
Net income$14,444
$8,483$4,466
Net income applicable to common stock$14,440
$8,470$4,414
Per common share data
Basic earnings per share

Income from continuing operations
$3.93
$2.36$1.51
Net income4.162.431.59
Diluted earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
3.822.321.48
Net income4.042.381.55
Average basic shares 
3,4703,4922,780
Average diluted shares
3,5743,5572,851
Cash dividends per common share$1.36
$1.36$1.36
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
91CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
December 31,(in millions,except share data)
20062005AssetsCash and due from banks$40,412
$36,670
Deposits with banks13,54721,661Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
140,524133,981Securities borrowed73,68874,604Trading assets (including assets pledged of $82,474 at December 31,2006,and $79,657 at December 31,2005)
365,738298,377Securities:Available-for-sale (including assets pledged of $39,571 at December 31,2006,and $17,614 at December 31,2005)
91,91747,523Held-to-maturity (fair value:$60 at December 31,2006,and $80 at December 31,2005)
5877Interests in purchased receivables
Š29,740Loans 483,127419,148Allowance for loan losses 
(7,279)(7,090)Loans,net of Allowance for loan losses
475,848412,058Private equity investments
6,3596,374Accrued interest and accounts receivable
22,89122,421Premises and equipment8,7359,081Goodwill45,18643,621Other intangible assets:Mortgage servicing rights
7,5466,452Purchased credit card relationships2,9353,275All other intangibles4,3714,832Other assets51,76548,195Total assets
$1,351,520
$1,198,942
LiabilitiesDeposits:
U.S.offices:
Noninterest-bearing$132,781
$135,599
Interest-bearing337,812287,774Non-U.S.offices:
Noninterest-bearing7,6627,476Interest-bearing160,533124,142Total deposits
638,788554,991Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
162,173125,925Commercial paper18,84913,863Other borrowed funds18,05310,479Trading liabilities
147,957145,930Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities (including the Allowance for lending-related
commitments of $524 at December 31,2006,and $400 at December 31,2005)
88,09678,460Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities
16,18442,197Long-term debt (including structured notes accounted for at fair value of $25,370 at December 31,2006)
133,421108,357Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities
12,20911,529Total liabilities
1,235,7301,091,731Commitments and contingencies (see Note 27 on pages 130Œ131 of this Annual Report)
Stockholders™ equity
Preferred stock ($1 par value;authorized 200,000,000 shares at December 31,2006 and 2005;
issued 0 shares and 280,433 shares at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively)
Š139Common stock ($1 par value;authorized 9,000,000,000 shares at December 31,2006 and 2005;
issued 3,657,786,282 shares and 3,618,189,597 shares at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively)
3,6583,618Capital surplus77,80774,994Retained earnings43,60033,848Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)(1,557)(626)Treasury stock,at cost (196,102,381 shares and 131,500,350 shares at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively)
(7,718)(4,762)Total stockholders™ equity
115,790107,211Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity$1,351,520
$1,198,942
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
92JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS™ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200620052004
(a)Preferred stock
Balance at beginning of year$139
$339$1,009
Redemption of preferred stock(139)(200)(670)
Balance at end of yearŠ
139339
Common stockBalance at beginning of year3,6183,5852,044
Issuance of common stock403372
Issuance of common stock for purchase accounting acquisitionsŠŠ1,469
Balance at end of year3,658
3,6183,585
Capital surplusBalance at beginning of year74,99472,80113,512
Issuance of common stock and options for purchase accounting acquisitionsŠŠ55,867
Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock for employee stock-based compensation awards and related tax effects
2,8132,1933,422
Balance at end of year77,807
74,99472,801
Retained earningsBalance at beginning of year33,84830,20929,681
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles172ŠŠBalance at beginning of year,adjusted34,020
30,20929,681
Net income14,4448,4834,466
Cash dividends declared:Preferred stock (4)(13)(52)
Common stock ($1.36 per share each year)(4,860)(4,831)(3,886)
Balance at end of year43,600
33,84830,209
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Balance at beginning of year(626)(208)(30)
Other comprehensive income (loss)171(418)(178)
Adjustment to initially apply SFAS 158
(1,102)ŠŠBalance at end of year(1,557)
(626)(208)
Treasury stock,at cost
Balance at beginning of year(4,762)(1,073)(62)
Purchase of treasury stock(3,938)(3,412)(738)
Reissuance from treasury stock1,334ŠŠShare repurchases related to employee stock-based compensation awards
(352)(277)(273)
Balance at end of year (7,718)
(4,762)(1,073)
Total stockholders™ equity$115,790
$107,211$105,653
Comprehensive income
Net income$14,444
$8,483$4,466
Other comprehensive income (loss)171(418)(178)
Comprehensive income$14,615
$8,065$4,288
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
93CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(a)Operating activities
Net income$14,444
$8,483$4,466
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:
Provision for credit losses3,2703,4832,544
Depreciation and amortization2,1492,8282,924
Amortization of intangibles1,4281,490911
Deferred tax benefit(1,810)(1,791)(827)
Investment securities (gains) losses5431,336(338)
Private equity unrealized (gains) losses
(404)55(766)
Gains on disposition of businesses(1,136)(1,254)(17)
Stock based compensation2,3681,5631,296
Originations and purchases of loans held-for-sale
(178,355)(108,611)(89,315)
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans held-for-sale
170,874102,60295,973
Net change in:Trading assets
(61,664)(3,845)(48,703)
Securities borrowed916(27,290)(4,816)
Accrued interest and accounts receivable
(1,170)(1,934)(2,391)
Other assets(7,208)(9)(17,588)
Trading liabilities
(4,521)(12,578)29,764
Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities
7,8155,53213,277
Other operating adjustments
2,882(296)(1,541)
Net cash used in operating activities(49,579)
(30,236)(15,147)
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banks8,168104(4,196)
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
(6,939)(32,469)(13,101)
Held-to-maturity securities:Proceeds 193366
Available-for-sale securities:
Proceeds from maturities24,90931,05345,197
Proceeds from sales123,75082,902134,534
Purchases (201,530)(81,749)(173,745)
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans held-for-investment
20,80923,86112,854
Originations and other changes in loans,net
(70,837)(40,436)(47,726)
Net cash received (used) in business dispositions or acquisitions 185(1,039)13,864
All other investing activities,net
1,8394,7962,519
Net cash used in investing activities(99,627)
(12,944)(29,734)
Financing activitiesNet change in:Deposits82,10531,41552,082
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
36,248(1,862)7,065
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds
12,6572,618(4,343)
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and capital debt securities56,72143,72125,344
Repayments of long-term debt and capital debt securities
(34,267)(26,883)(16,039)
Net proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
1,659682848
Excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation302ŠŠRedemption of preferred stock(139)(200)(670)
Treasury stock purchased
(3,938)(3,412)(738)
Cash dividends paid(4,846)(4,878)(3,927)
All other financing activities,net
6,2473,868(26)
Net cash provided by financing activities152,749
45,06959,596
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks
199(387)185
Net increase in cash and due from banks
3,7421,50214,900
Cash and due from banks at the beginning of the year36,67035,16820,268
Cash and due from banks at the end of the year$40,412
$36,670$35,168
Cash interest paid$36,415
$24,583$13,384
Cash income taxes paid $5,563
$4,758$1,477
Note:In 2006,the Firm exchanged selected corporate trust businesses for The Bank of New York™s consumer,business banking and mi
ddle-market banking businesses.The fair values of the noncash assets
exchanged was $2.15 billion.In 2004,the fair values of noncash assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the merger with Bank 
One were $320.9 billion and $277.0 billion,respectively,and
approximately 1,469 million shares of common stock,valued at approximately $57.3 billion,were issued in connection with the mer
ger with Bank One.
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
94JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
When the SPE does not meet the QSPE criteria,consolidation is assessed pur-
suant to FIN 46R.Under FIN 46R,a VIE is defined as an entity that:(1) lacks

enough equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities
without additional subordinated financial support from other parties;(2) has

equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the

entity™s operations;and/or (3) has equity owners that do not have an obligation

to absorb the entity™s losses or the right to receive the entity™s returns.
FIN 46R requires a variable interest holder (i.e.,a counterparty to a VIE) to
consolidate the VIE if that party will absorb a majority of the expected losses

of the VIE,receive the majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE,or

both.This party is considered the primary beneficiary.In making this determi-

nation,the Firm thoroughly evaluates the VIE™s design,capital structure and

relationships among variable interest holders.When the primary beneficiary

cannot be identified through a qualitative analysis,the Firm performs a quan-

titative analysis,which computes and allocates expected losses or residual

returns to variable interest holders.The allocation of expected cash flows in

this analysis is based upon the relative contractual rights and preferences 

of each interest holder in the VIE™s capital structure.For further details,see

Note 15 on pages 118Œ120 of this Annual Report.
Investments in companies that are considered to be voting-interest entitiesunder FIN 46R in which the Firm has significant influence over operating 

and financing decisions are accounted for in accordance with the equity
method of accounting.These investments are generally included in Other

assets,and the Firm™s share of income or loss is included in Other income.
All retained interests and significant transactions between the Firm,QSPEs
and nonconsolidated VIEs are reflected on JPMorgan Chase™s Consolidated

balance sheets or in the Notes to consolidated financial statements.
For a discussion of the accounting for private equity investments,see Note 4
on pages 98Œ99 of this Annual Report.
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by the Firm are not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included in the Consolidated 
balance sheets.
Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management 

to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of

assets and liabilities,of revenue and expenses,and of disclosures of contin-

gent assets and liabilities.Actual results could be different from these esti-

mates.For discussion of critical accounting estimates used by the Firm,see

pages 83Œ85 of this Annual Report.
Foreign currency translation
JPMorgan Chase revalues assets,liabilities,revenues and expenses denomi-

nated in foreign (i.e.,non-U.S.) currencies into U.S.dollars using applicable

exchange rates.
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency financial statements
for U.S.reporting are included in Other comprehensive income (loss) within

Stockholders™ equity.Gains and losses relating to nonfunctional currency

transactions,including non-U.S.operations where the functional currency is

the U.S.dollar,are reported 
in the Consolidated statements of income.
Statements of cash flowsFor JPMorgan Chase™s Consolidated statements of cash flows,cash is d
efinedas those amounts included in Cash and due from banks.
Note 1ŒBasis of presentation 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂor the ﬁFirmﬂ),a financial holding

company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968,is a leading global 

financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the
United States,with operations worldwide.The Firm is a leader in investment

banking,financial services for consumers and businesses,financial transaction

processing,asset management and private equity.For a discussion of the

Firm™s business segment information,see Note 33 on pages 139Œ141 of this

Annual Report.The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase and its
subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the 

United States of America (ﬁU.S.GAAPﬂ).Additionally,where applicable,the

policies conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by
bank regulatory authorities.
Certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to thecurrent presentation.Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of JPMorgan

Chase and other entities in which the Firm has a controlling financial interest.
All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The most usual condition for a controlling financial interest is the ownership of
a majority of the voting interests of the entity.However,a controlling financial

interest also may be deemed to exist with respect to entities,such as special

purpose entities (ﬁSPEsﬂ),through arrangements that do not involve controlling

voting interests.
SPEs are an important part of the financial markets,providing market liquidity
by facilitating investors™ access to specific portfolios of assets and risks.For

example,they are critical to the functioning of the mortgage- and asset-

backed securities and commercial paper markets.SPEs may be organized 

as trusts,partnerships or corporations and are typically set up for a single,

discrete purpose.SPEs are not typically operating entities and usually have a

limited life and no employees.The basic SPE structure involves a company

selling assets to the SPE.The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issu-

ing securities to investors.The legal documents that govern the transaction

describe how the cash earned on the assets must be allocated to the SPE™s

investors and other parties that have rights to those cash flows.SPEs can be

structured to be bankruptcy-remote,thereby insulating investors from the

impact of the creditors of other entities,including the seller of the assets.
There are two different accounting frameworks applicable to SPEs:the quali-
fying SPE (ﬁQSPEﬂ) framework under SFAS 140;and the variable interest

entity (ﬁVIEﬂ) framework under FIN 46R.The applicable framework depends

on the nature of the entity and the Firm™s relation to that entity.The QSPE

framework is applicable when an entity transfers (sells) financial assets to an

SPE meeting certain criteria defined in SFAS 140.These criteria are designed

to ensure that the activities of the entity are essentially predetermined at the
inception of the vehicle and that the transferor of the financial assets cannot

exercise control over the entity and the assets therein.Entities meeting these

criteria are not consolidated by the transferor or other counterparties,as long

as they do not have the unilateral ability to liquidate or to cause the entity 

no longer to meet the QSPE criteria.The Firm primarily follows the QSPE

model for securitizations of its residential and commercial mortgages,credit

card loans and automobile loans.For further details,see Note 14 on pages

114Œ118 of this Annual Report.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
95Accounting for certain hybrid financial instrumentsSFAS 155 applies to certain ﬁhybrid financial instrumentsﬂwhich are financial

instruments that contain embedded derivatives.The standard establishes a

requirement to evaluate beneficial interests in securitized financial assets to

determine if the interests represent freestanding derivatives or are hybrid finan-

cial instruments containing embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation.SFAS 155

also permits an irrevocable election for fair value measurement of any hybrid

financial instrument containing an embedded derivative that otherwise would

require bifurcation under SFAS 133.The fair value election can be applied to

existing instruments on an instrument-by-instrument basis at the date of adop-
tion and can be applied to new instruments on a prospective basis.
The Firm adopted SFAS 155 effective January 1,2006.The Firm has elected to fair
value all instruments issued,acquired or modified after December 31,2005,that

are required to be bifurcated under SFAS 133,as amended by SFAS 138,SFAS

149 and SFAS 155.In addition,the Firm elected to fair value certain structured

notes existing as of December 31,2005,resulting in a $22 million cumulative

effect increase to Retained earnings.The cumulative effect adjustment includes

gross unrealized gains of $29 million and gross unrealized losses of $7 million.The substantial majority of the structured notes to which the fair-value election
has been applied are classified in Long-term debt on the Consolidated balance
sheets.The change in fair value associated with structured notes is classified

within Principal transactions revenue on the Consolidated statements of income.

For a discussion of Principal transactions and Long-term debt,see Notes 4 and

19 on pages 98Œ99and 124Œ125,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Significant accounting policiesThe following table identifies JPMorgan Chase™s other significant accounting 

policies and the Note and page where a detailed description of each policycan be found:Business changes and developmentsNote 2Page95
Principal transactions activitiesNote 4Page98

Other noninterest revenueNote 5Page99

Pension and other postretirement employee
benefit plansNote 7Page100
Employee stock-based incentivesNote 8Page105

Noninterest expenseNote 9Page108

Securities Note 10Page108

Securities financing activitiesNote 11Page111

LoansNote 12Page112

Allowance for credit lossesNote 13Page113

Loan securitizationsNote 14Page114

Variable interest entitiesNote 15Page118

Goodwill and other intangible assetsNote 16Page121

Premises and equipmentNote 17Page123

Income taxesNote 24Page128

Accounting for derivative instruments
and hedging activitiesNote 28Page131
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guaranteesNote 29Page132
Fair value of financial instrumentsNote 31Page135
Note 2Œ Business changes and developments
Merger with Bank One Corporation 
Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase (the

ﬁMergerﬂ) on July 1,2004.As a result of the Merger,each outstanding share
of common stock of Bank One was converted in a stock-for-stock exchange

into 1.32 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase.JPMorgan Chase

stockholders kept their shares,which remained outstanding and unchanged

as shares of JPMorgan Chase following the Merger.Key objectives of the

Merger were to provide the Firm with a more balanced business mix and
greater geographic diversification.The Merger was accounted for using the

purchase method of accounting,which requires that the assets and liabilities

of Bank One be fair valued as of July 1,2004.The purchase price to complete

the Merger was $58.5 billion.
As part of the Merger,certain accounting policies and practices were conformed,
which resulted in $976 million of charges in 2004.The significant components

of the conformity charges were a $1.4 billion charge related to the decertifica-
tion of the seller™s interest in credit card securitizations,and the benefit of 

a $584 million reduction in the allowance for credit losses as a result of 

conforming the wholesale and consumer credit provision methodologies.
96JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The final purchase price of the Merger was allocated to the assets acquired
and liabilities assumed using their fair values as of the Merger date.The com-

putation of the purchase price and the allocation of the purchase price to the
net assets of Bank One Œ based upon their respective fair values as of July 1,

2004 Œ and the resulting goodwill are presented below.
(in millions,except per share amounts)July 1,2004
Purchase price
Bank One common stock exchanged 1,113
Exchange ratio1.32

JPMorgan Chase common stock issued 1,469

Average purchase price per 
JPMorgan Chase common share(a)$39.02
$57,336
Fair value of employee stock awards and 
direct acquisition costs1,210Total purchase price58,546
Net assets acquired:
Bank One stockholders™ equity$24,156
Bank One goodwill and other intangible assets(2,754)

Subtotal21,402
Adjustments to reflect assets 
acquired at fair value:
Loans and leases (2,261)

Private equity investments(72)

Identified intangible assets 8,665

Pension plan assets(778)

Premises and equipment(417)

Other assets (267)
Amounts to reflect liabilities 
assumed at fair value:Deposits (373)
Deferred income taxes 932

Other postretirement benefit plan liabilities(49)

Other liabilities(1,162)
Long-term debt(1,234)
24,386Goodwill resulting from Merger(b)$34,160
(a)The value of the Firm™s common stock exchanged with Bank One shareholders was based
upon the average closing prices of the Firm™s common stock for the two days prior to,and

the two days following,the announcement of the Merger on January 14,2004.
(b)Goodwill resulting from the Merger reflects adjustments of the allocation of the purchase
price to the net assets acquired through June 30,2005.
Condensed statement of net assets acquired
The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the fair
value of Bank One net assets as of July 1,2004.
(in millions)July 1,2004
AssetsCash and cash equivalents$14,669

Securities70,512

Interests in purchased receivables30,184

Loans,net of allowance for loan losses129,650

Goodwill and other intangible assets42,825
All other assets47,739
Total assets
$335,579
LiabilitiesDeposits$164,848

Short-term borrowings9,811

All other liabilities61,494
Long-term debt40,880
Total liabilities
277,033Net assets acquired
$58,546
Acquired,identified intangible assets
Components of the fair value of acquired,identified intangible assets as of
July 1,2004,were as follows:
Fair valueWeighted-averageUseful life
(in millions)life (in years)(in years)
Core deposit intangibles$3,6505.1Up to 10
Purchased credit card relationships3,3404.6Up to 10

Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles2954.6Up to 10
Other customer relationship intangibles8704.6Œ10.5Up to 20
Subtotal8,1555.1Up to 20
Indefinite-lived asset management intangibles510NANA
Total
$8,665
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information
presents the results of operations of the Firm had the Merger taken place at

January 1,2004.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)2004
Noninterest revenue
$30,684
Net interest income
21,132Total net revenue
51,816Provision for credit losses2,727
Noninterest expense
40,117Income from continuing operations
before income tax expense
8,972Income from continuing operations 6,338
Income from discontinued operations 206
Net income$6,544
Net income per common share:Basic
Income from continuing operations$1.79

Net income1.85
DilutedIncome from continuing operations1.75

Net income1.81
Average common shares outstanding:
Basic3,510
Diluted 3,593Other business eventsAcquisition of the consumer,business banking and middle-market
banking businesses of The Bank of New York in exchange for

selected corporate trust businesses,including trustee,paying

agent,loan agency and document management services

On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of The Bank

of New York Company,Inc.™s (ﬁThe Bank of New Yorkﬂ) consumer,business

banking and middle-market banking businesses in exchange for selected cor-

porate trust businesses plus a cash payment of $150 million.This acquisition

added 339 branches and more than 400 ATMs,and it significantly strength-

ens Retail Financial Services distribution network in the New York Tri-state

area.The Bank of New York businesses acquired were valued at a premium of

$2.3 billion;the Firm™s corporate trust businesses that were transferred (i.e.,

trustee,paying agent,loan agency and document management services) were

valued at a premium of $2.2 billion.The Firm also may make a future pay-

ment to The Bank of New York of up to $50 million depending on certain

new account openings.This transaction included the acquisition of approxi-

mately $7.7 billion in loans net of Allowance for loan losses and $12.9 billion

in deposits from The Bank of New York.The Firm also recognized core deposit
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
97intangibles of $485 million which will be amortized using an accelerated
method over a 10 year period.JPMorgan Chase recorded an after-tax gain of

$622 million related to this transaction in the fourth quarter of 2006.
JPMorgan Partners management
On August 1,2006,the buyout and growth equity professionals of JPMorgan

Partners (ﬁJPMPﬂ) formed an independent firm,CCMP Capital,LLC (ﬁCCMPﬂ),

and the venture professionals separately formed an independent firm,

Panorama Capital,LLC (ﬁPanoramaﬂ).The investment professionals of CCMP

and Panorama continue to manage the former JPMP investments pursuant to a

management agreement with the Firm.Sale of insurance underwriting business
On July 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the sale of its life insurance and

annuity underwriting businesses to Protective Life Corporation for cash pro-

ceeds of approximately $1.2 billion,consisting of $900 million of cash

received from Protective Life Corporation and approximately $300 million of

preclosing dividends received from the entities sold.The after-tax impact of

this transaction was negligible.The sale included both the heritage Chase

insurance business and the insurance business that Bank One had bought

from Zurich Insurance in 2003.
Acquisition of private-label credit card portfolio from Kohl™s
Corporation

On April 21,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of $1.6 billion

of private-label credit card receivables and approximately 21 million accounts

from Kohl™s Corporation (ﬁKohl™sﬂ).JPMorgan Chase and Kohl™s have also

entered into an agreement under which JPMorgan Chase will offer private-

label credit cards to both new and existing Kohl™s customers.
Collegiate Funding ServicesOn March 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase acquired,for approximately $663 mil-

lion,Collegiate Funding Services,a leader in education loan servicing and

consolidation.This acquisition included $6 billion of education loans and will

enable the Firm to create a comprehensive education finance business.
BrownCo 
On November 30,2005,JPMorgan Chase sold BrownCo,an on-line deep-

discount brokerage business,to E*TRADE Financial for a cash purchase price

of $1.6 billion.JPMorgan Chase recognized an 
after-tax gain 
of $752 millionon the sale.
BrownCo™s results of operations were reported in the Asset
Management business segment;however,the gain on the sale,which was
recorded in Other income in the Consolidated statements of income,was

reported in the Corporate business segment.
Sears Canada credit card business 
On November 15,2005,JPMorgan Chase purchased Sears Canada Inc.™s 

credit card operation,including both private-label card accounts and co-brand-

ed Sears MasterCard®accounts,aggregating approximately 10 million
accounts with $2.2 billion (CAD$2.5 billion) in managed loans.Sears Canada

and JPMorgan Chase entered into an ongoing arrangement under which

JPMorgan Chase will offer private-label and co-branded credit cards to both

new and existing customers of Sears Canada.Chase Merchant Services,Paymentech integration
On October 5,2005,JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corp.completed the 

integrationof the companies™ jointly 
owned Chase Merchant Services andPaymentech merchant businesses,to be operated under the name Chase

Paymentech Solutions,LLC.The joint venture is the largest financial transaction

processor in the U.S.for businesses accepting credit card payments via traditional

point of sale,Internet,catalog and recurring billing.As a result of the integration
into a joint venture,Paymentech has been deconsolidated and JPMorgan Chase™s
ownership interest in this joint venture is accounted for in accordance with the
equity method of accounting.CazenoveOn February 28,2005,JPMorgan Chase and Cazenove Group plc (ﬁCazenoveﬂ)

formed a business partnership which combined Cazenove™s investment banking

business and JPMorgan Chase™s U.K.-based investment banking business in

order to provide investment banking services in the United Kingdom and
Ireland.The new company is called JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings.
Other acquisitionsDuring 2004,JPMorgan Chase purchased the Electronic Financial Services

(ﬁEFSﬂ) business from Citigroup and acquired a majority interest in hedge
fund manager Highbridge Capital Management,LLC (ﬁHighbridgeﬂ).
Note 3 Œ Discontinued operations 
The transfer of selected corporate trust businesses to The Bank of New York

(see Note 2 above) includes the trustee,paying agent,loan agency and docu-

ment management services businesses.JPMorgan Chase recognized an after-

tax gain of $622 million on this transaction.The results of operations of these

corporate trust businesses were transferred from the Treasury & Securities

Services (ﬁTSSﬂ) segment to the Corporate segment effective with the second

quarter of 2006,and reported as discontinued operations.Condensed finan-

cial information of the corporate trust business follows:
Selected income statements dataYear ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(a)Other noninterest revenue
$407
$509$491
Net interest income264
276234
Gain on sale of discontinued operations
1,081ŠŠTotal net revenue1,752
785725
Noninterest expense385
409387
Income from discontinued operations
before income taxes1,367
376338
Income tax expense572147132
Income from discontinued 
operations
$795
$229$206
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities associated with the
selected corporate trust businesses related to The Bank of New York transac-

tion that closed on October 1,2006.
Selected balance sheet data(in millions)October 1,2006
Goodwill and other intangibles$838
Other assets 547
Total assets
$1,385
Deposits $24,011
Other liabilities547
Total liabilities
$24,558
JPMorgan Chase will provide certain transitional services to The Bank of New
York for a defined period of time after the closing date.The Bank of New York

will compensate JPMorgan Chase for these transitional services.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
98JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 4 ŒPrincipal transactions
Principal transactions is a new caption,effective January 1,2006,in the
Consolidated statements of income.Principal transactions revenue consists of:

realized and unrealized gains and losses from trading activities (including

physical commodities inventories that are accounted for at the lower of cost
or fair value);changes in fair value associated with structured notes to which
the SFAS 155 fair value election has been applied,and Private equity gains and
losses.The prior-period presentation of Trading revenue and Private equity

gains (losses) has been reclassified to this new caption.The following table

presents Principal transactions revenue:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(a)Trading revenue
$8,986
$5,860$3,612
Private equity gains
1,3601,8091,536
Principal transactions$10,346
$7,669$5,148
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Trading assets and liabilities
Trading assets include debt and equity securities held for trading purposes
that JPMorgan Chase owns (ﬁlongﬂpositions).Trading liabilities include debt

and equity securities that the Firm has sold to other parties but does not own
(ﬁshortﬂpositions).The Firm is obligated to purchase securities at a future

date to cover the short positions.Included in Trading assets and Trading liabil-

ities are the reported receivables (unrealized gains) and payables (unrealized

losses) related to derivatives.Loans are classified as trading where positions

are bought and sold to make profits from short-term movements in price.

Trading positions are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets.
The following table presents the fair value of Trading assets and Trading 
liabilities for the dates indicated:December 31,(in millions)
20062005Trading assets
Debt and equity instruments:
U.S.government and federal agency 
obligations $17,358
$16,283
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise 
obligations 28,54424,172Obligations of state and political subdivisions
9,5699,887Certificates of deposit,bankers™ acceptances
and commercial paper8,2045,652Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
58,38748,671Corporate securities and other
188,075143,925Total debt and equity instruments310,137
248,590Derivative receivables:
(a)(b)Interest rate 
28,93228,113Foreign exchange 
4,2602,855Equity6,2465,575Credit derivatives
5,7323,464Commodity10,4319,780Total derivative receivables55,601
49,787Total trading assets$365,738
$298,377
December 31,(in millions)
20062005Trading liabilities
Debt and equity instruments(c)$90,488
$94,157
Derivative payables:
(a)(b)Interest rate 
22,73826,930Foreign exchange 
4,8203,453Equity16,57911,539Credit derivatives
6,0032,445Commodity7,3297,406Total derivative payables57,469
51,773Total trading liabilities$147,957
$145,930
(a)2005 has been adjusted to reflect more appropriate product classifications of certain bal-ances.
(b)Included in Trading assets and Trading liabilities are the reported receivables (unrealized
gains) and payables (unrealized losses) related to derivatives.These amounts are reported

net of cash received and paid of $23.0 billion and $18.8 billion,respectively,at December

31,2006,and $26.7 billion and $18.9 billion,respectively,at December 31,2005,under

legally enforceable master netting agreements.
(c)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Average Trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods indicated:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(b)Trading assets Œ debt and 
equity instruments$280,079
$237,073$200,389
Trading assets Œ derivative receivables
57,36857,36559,522
Trading liabilities Œ debt and 
equity instruments(a)$102,794
$93,102$82,204
Trading liabilities Œ derivative payables
57,93855,72352,761
(a)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Private equityThe following table presents the carrying value and cost of the Private equity

investment portfolio for the dates indicated:December 31,20062005(in millions)Carrying valueCostCarrying valueCost
Total private equity
investments$6,359$7,560
$6,374$8,036
Private equity investments are held primarily by the Private equity business within
Corporate (which includes investments made by JPMorgan Partners and ONE

Equity Partners).The Private Equity business invests in buyouts,growth equity and

venture opportunities.These investments are accounted for under investment

company guidelines.Accordingly,these investments,irrespective of the percentage
of equity ownership interest held by Private equity,are carried on the Consolidated
balance sheets at fair value.Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from
changes in value are reported in Principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated
statements of income in the period that the gains or losses occur.
Privately held investments are initially valued based upon cost.The carrying val-

ues of privately held investments are adjusted from cost to reflect both positive

and negative changes evidenced by financing events with third-party capital
providers.In addition,these investments are subject to ongoing impairment

reviews by Private equity senior investment professionals.A variety of factors are

reviewed and monitored to assess impairment including,but not limited to,

operating performance of,and future expectations regarding,the particular port-

folio investment;industry valuations of comparable public companies;changes

in market outlook;and the third-party financing environment over time.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
99Private equity also holds publicly held equity investments,generally obtained
through the initial public offering of privately held equity investments.Publicly 

held investments are marked-to-market at the quoted public value.To deter-

minethe 
carrying values of these investments,Private equity incorporates the
use of discounts to take into account the fact that it cannot immediately real-

ize the quoted public values as a result of regulatory and/or contractual sales

restrictions imposed on these holdings.
Note 5 ŒOther noninterest revenue 
Investment banking feesThis revenue category includes advisory and equity and debt underwriting fees.

Advisory fees are recognized as revenue when the related services have been per-
formed.Underwriting fees are recognized as revenue when the Firm has rendered

all services to the issuer and is entitled to collect the fee from the issuer,as long

as there are no other contingencies associated with the fee (e.g.,the fee is not

contingent upon the customer obtaining financing).Underwriting fees are net of

syndicate expenses.The Firm recognizes credit arrangement and syndication fees

as revenue after satisfying certain retention,timing and yield criteria.
The following table presents the components of Investment banking fees:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(a)Underwriting:Equity$1,179
$864$780
Debt2,7031,9691,858
Total Underwriting3,882
2,8332,638
Advisory1,6381,255898
Total$5,520
$4,088$3,536
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Lending & deposit related fees 
This revenue category includes fees from loan commitments,standby letters of

credit,financial guarantees,deposit-related fees in lieu of compensating bal-

ances,cash management-related activities or transactions,deposit accounts,

and other loan servicing activities.These fees are recognized over the period

in which the related service is provided.Asset management,administration and commissions 
This revenue category includes fees from investment management and related
services,custody,brokerage services,insurance premiums and commissions and

other products.These fees are recognized over the period in which the related

service is provided.Performance-based fees,which are earned based upon

exceeding certain benchmarks or other performance targets,are accrued and

recognized at the end of the performance period in which the target is met.Mortgage fees and related income 
This revenue category includes fees and income derived from mortgage origina-

tion,sales and servicing,and includes the effect of risk management activities

associated with the mortgage pipeline,warehouse and the mortgage servicing

rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ) asset (excluding gains and losses on the sale of Available-for-

sale (ﬁAFSﬂ) securities).Origination fees and gains or losses on loan sales are

recognized in income upon sale.Mortgage servicing fees are recognized over 
the period the related service is provided.Valuation changes in the mortgage

pipeline,warehouse,MSR asset and corresponding risk management instruments
are recognized in earnings as these changes occur.Net interest income and secu-

rities gains and losses on AFS securities used in mortgage-related risk manage-

ment activities are not included in Mortgage fees and related income.For a fur-

ther discussion of MSRs,see Note 16 on pages 121Œ122 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income

This revenue category includes interchange income from credit and debit cards

and servicing fees earned in connection with securitization activities.Volume-

related payments to partners and expenses for rewards programs are netted

against interchange income.Expenses related to rewards programs are recorded

when the rewards are earned by the customer.Other Fee revenues are recog-

nized as earned,except for annual fees,which are deferred with direct loan

origination costs and recognized on a straight-line basis over the 12-month

period to which they pertain.Credit card revenue sharing agreementsThe Firm has contractual agreements with numerous affinity organizations and

co-brand partners,which grant to the Firm exclusive rights to market to their

members or customers.These organizations and partners endorse the credit card

programs and provide their mailing lists to the Firm,and they may also conduct

marketing activities and provide awards under the various credit card programs.

The terms of these agreements generally range from 3 to 10 years.The economic

incentives the Firm pays to the endorsing organizations and partners typically
include payments based upon new account originations,charge volumes,and the

cost of the endorsing organizations™ or partners™ marketing activities and awards.
The Firm recognizes the payments made to the affinity organizations and co-

brand partners based upon new account originations as direct loan origination

costs.Payments based upon charge volumes are considered by the Firm as rev-

enue sharing with the affinity organizations and co-brand partners,which are

deducted from Credit card income as the related revenue is earned.Payments

based upon marketing efforts undertaken by the endorsing organization or

partner are expensed by the Firm as incurred.These costs are recorded within

Noninterest expense.
Note 6 ŒInterest income and Interest expense
Details of Interest income and Interest expense were as follows:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20062005(b)2004(b)(c)Interest income
Loans$33,121
$26,056$16,768
Securities4,1473,1293,377
Trading assets
10,9429,1177,527
Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements5,5783,5621,380
Securities borrowed3,4021,618578
Deposits with banks1,265660539
Interests in purchased receivables
(a)652933291
Total interest income59,107
45,07530,460
Interest expense
Interest-bearing deposits17,0429,9864,515
Short-term and other liabilities14,08610,0026,474
Long-term debt5,5034,1602,466
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs1,2341,372478
Total interest expense37,865
25,52013,933
Net interest income21,242
19,55516,527
Provision for credit losses3,2703,4832,544
Net interest income after Provision 
forcredit losses$17,972
$16,072$13,983
(a)  As a result of restructuring certain multi-seller conduits the Firm administers,JPMorgan 
Chase deconsolidated $29 billion of Interests in purchased receivables,$3 billion of Loans 

and $1 billion of Securities,and recorded $33 billion of lending-related commitments during

the second quarter of 2006.(b)Prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the reclassification of certain amounts to 
more appropriate Interest income and Interest expense lines.
(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of 
heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
100JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 7 ŒPension and other postretirement
employee benefit plansThe Firm™s defined benefit pension plans are accounted for in accordance with
SFAS 87 and SFAS 88,and its other postretirement employee benefit (ﬁOPEBﬂ)

plans are accounted for in accordance with SFAS 106.In September 2006,

the FASB issued SFAS 158,which requires companies to recognize on their

Consolidated balance sheets the overfunded or underfunded status of their
defined benefit postretirement plans,measured as the difference between the

fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation.SFAS 158 requires unrecog-

nized amounts (e.g.,net actuarial loss and prior service costs) to be recognized

in Accumulated other comprehensive income (ﬁAOCIﬂ) and that these amounts

be adjusted as they are subsequently recognized as components of net periodic
benefit cost based upon the current amortization and recognition requirements
of SFAS 87 and SFAS 106.The Firm prospectively adopted SFAS 158 as required

on December 31,2006,which resulted in a charge to AOCI of $1.1 billion.
SFAS 158 also eliminates the provisions of SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 that allow

plan assets and obligations to be measured as of a date not more than three
months prior to the reporting entity™s balance sheet date.The Firm uses a

measurement date of December 31 for its defined benefit pension and OPEB
plans;therefore,this provision of SFAS 158 will have no effect on the Firm™s

financial statements.
For the Firm™s defined benefit pension plans,fair value is used to determine the
expected return on plan assets.For the Firm™s OPEB plans,a calculated value

that recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year period is used to deter-

mine the expected return on plan assets.Amortization of net actuarial gains

and losses is included in annual net periodic benefit cost if,as of the beginning

of the year,the net actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10 percent of the greater of

the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of the plan assets.Any excess,

as well as prior service costs,are amortized over the average future service

period of defined benefit pension plan participants,which for the U.S.defined

benefit pension plan is currently 10 years.For OPEB plans,any excess net actu-

arial gains and losses also are amortized over the average future service peri-

od,which is currently seven years;however,prior service costs are amortized

over the average years of service remaining to full eligibility age,which is cur-

rently five years.
Defined benefit pension plans 

The Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S.defined benefit pension plan

that provides benefits to substantially all U.S.employees.The U.S.plan

employs a cash balance formula,in the form of pay and interest credits,to

determine the benefits to be provided at retirement,based upon eligible com-

pensation and years of service.Employees begin to accrue plan benefits after

completing one year of service,and benefits generally vest after five years of

service.The Firm also offers benefits through defined benefit pension plans to

qualifying employees in certain non-U.S.locations based upon factors such as

eligible compensation,age and/or years of service.
It is the Firm™s policy to fund the pension plans in amounts sufficient to meet
the requirements under applicable employee benefit and local tax laws.As a

result of the enactment of the Pension Protection Act in August 2006,which

increased the maximum amount allowable for tax deduction,the Firm is

reviewing 2007 U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension plan contribution

alternatives.The amount of potential 2007 contributions,if any,is not reason-

ably estimable at this time.
JPMorgan Chase has a number of other defined benefit pension plans (i.e.,U.S.

plans not subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act).

The most significant of these plans is the Excess Retirement Plan,pursuant 

to which certain employees earn pay and interest credits on compensation
amounts above the maximum stipulated by law under a qualified plan.The

Excess Retirement Plan is a nonqualified,noncontributory U.S.pension plan
with an unfunded projected benefit obligation at December 31,2006 and 2005,
in the amount of $301 million and $273 million,respectively.In the current

year,this plan has been incorporated into certain of this Note™s tables for which

it had not been included in prior years.
Defined contribution plansJPMorgan Chase offers several defined contribution plans in the U.S.and in

certain non-U.S.locations,all of which are administered in accordance with

applicable local laws and regulations.The most significant of these plans is The

JPMorgan Chase 401(k) Savings Plan (the ﬁ401(k) Savings Planﬂ),which cov-

ers substantially all U.S.employees.The 401(k) Savings Plan allows employees

to make pretax contributions to tax-deferred investment portfolios.The

JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Fund,which is an investment option under

the 401(k) Savings Plan,is a nonleveraged employee stock ownership plan.

The Firm matches eligible employee contributions up to a certain percentage of

benefits-eligible compensation per pay period,subject to plan and legal limits.

Employees begin to receive matching contributions after completing a one-year
service requirement and are immediately vested in the Firm™s contributions

when made.Employees with total annual cash compensation of $250,000 or

more are not eligible for matching contributions.The 401(k) Savings Plan also

permits discretionary profit-sharing contributions by participating companies
for certain employees,subject to a specified vesting schedule.
OPEB plans
JPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to

certain retirees and qualifying U.S.employees.These benefits vary with length

of service and date of hire and provide for limits on the Firm™s share of cov-

ered medical benefits.The medical benefits are contributory,while the life

insurance benefits are noncontributory.As of August 1,2005,the eligibility

requirements for U.S.employees to qualify for subsidized retiree medical cov-

erage were revised,and life insurance coverage was eliminated for active

employees retiring after 2005.Postretirement medical benefits also are

offered to qualifying U.K.employees.
JPMorgan Chase™s U.S.OPEB obligation is funded with corporate-owned life
insurance (ﬁCOLIﬂ) purchased on the lives of eligible employees and retirees.

While the Firm owns the COLI policies,COLI proceeds (death benefits,with-

drawals and other distributions) may be used only to reimburse the Firm for

its net postretirement benefit claim payments and related administrative

expenses.The U.K.OPEB plan is unfunded.
The following tables present the funded status,changes in the benefit obliga-
tions and plan assets,accumulated benefit obligations,and AOCI amounts

reported on the Consolidated balance sheets for the Firm™s U.S.and non-U.S.

defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
101Defined benefit pension plansAs of or for the year ended December 31,U.S.Non-U.S.
OPEB plans(g)(in millions)20062005(e)2006200520062005(h)Change in benefit obligationBenefit obligation,beginning of year 
$(8,054)
$(7,980)
$(2,378)
$(1,969)
$(1,395)
$(1,577)
Cazenove business partnershipŠŠŠ(291)ŠŠBenefits earned during the year(281)(293)(37)(25)(9)(13)Interest cost on benefit obligations(452)(453)(120)(104)(78)(81)Plan amendmentsŠŠ2ŠŠ117Liabilities of newly material plans(a)ŠŠ(154)ŠŠŠEmployee contributionsNANA(2)Š(50)(44)Actuarial gain (loss)(200)(123)(23)(310)(55)21Benefits paid8567666866177187Expected Medicare Part D subsidy receipts
NANANANA(13)NACurtailments33292Š(12)(9)SettlementsŠŠ37ŠŠŠ
Special termination benefitsŠŠ(1)Š(2)(1)Foreign exchange impact and other
ŠŠ(311)255(6)5Benefit obligation,end of year$(8,098)
$(8,054)
$(2,917)
$(2,378)
$(1,443)
$(1,395)
Change in plan assetsFair value of plan assets,beginning of year
$9,617
$9,637 
$2,223
$1,889
$1,329
$1,302
Cazenove business partnershipŠŠŠ252ŠŠActual return on plan assets1,1517039430812043Firm contributions43432417823Employee contributionsŠŠ2ŠŠŠAssets of newly material plans(a)ŠŠ67ŠŠŠBenefits paid(856)(766)(68)(66)(100)(19)SettlementsŠŠ(37)ŠŠŠForeign exchange impact and other
ŠŠ291(238)ŠŠFair value of plan assets,end of year$9,955
(c)$9,617
(c)$2,813
$2,223
$1,351
$1,329
Funded (unfunded) status$1,857
$1,563
$(104)
$(155)
$(92)
$(66)
Unrecognized amounts:Net actuarial lossNA(d)1,087NA(d)599NA(d)335Prior service cost (credit)NA(d)43NA(d)3NA(d)(105)Net amount recognized in the 
Consolidated balance sheets(b)
$1,857
$2,693
$(104)
$447
(f)$(92)
$164
Accumulated benefit obligation,end of year$(7,679)
$(7,647)
$(2,849)
$(2,303)
NANA(a)Reflects adjustments related to pension plans in Germany and Switzerland,which have defined benefit pension obligations that
 were not previously measured under SFAS 87 due to immateriality.
(b)Net amount recognized is recorded in Other assets for prepaid pension costs or in Accounts payable,accrued expenses and othe
r liabilities for accrued pension costs.
(c)At December 31,2006 and 2005,approximately $282 million and $405 million,respectively,of U.S.plan assets related to particip
ation rights under participating annuity contracts.
(d)Under SFAS 158,and as noted in the following table,amounts that were previously reported as part of prepaid or accrued pensi
on costs are now reported within AOCI.
(e)Revised primarily to incorporate amounts related to the U.S.defined benefit pension plans not subject to Title IV of the Employ
ee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (e.g.,Excess Retirement Plan).
(f)At December 31,2005,Accrued pension costs related to non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans that JPMorgan Chase elected not t
o prefund fully totaled $164 million.(g)Includes accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of $52 million and $44 million and postretirement benefit liability (
included in Accrued expenses) of $52 million and $50 million,at December
31,2006 and 2005,respectively,for the U.K.plan,which is unfunded.
(h)The U.S.OPEB plan was remeasured as of August 1,2005,to reflect a midyear plan amendment and the final Medicare Part D regul
ations that were issued on January 21,2005;as a result,the ben-
efit obligation was reduced by $116 million.
Amounts recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income
Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.
OPEB plansBeforeTaxAfterBeforeTaxAfterBeforeTaxAfter
December 31,2006 (in millions)taxeffecttaxtaxeffecttaxtaxeffecttax
Net actuarial loss(a)$783$311$472$669$266$403$335$84$251
Prior service cost (credit)361422ŠŠŠ(77)(31)(46)
Total recognized in Accumulated other 
comprehensive income$819$325$494$669$266$403$258$53$205
(a) For defined benefit pension plans,the net actuarial loss is primarily the result of declines in discount rates in recent ye
ars,partially offset by asset gains.Other factors that contribute to this net actu-
arial loss include demographic experience,which differs from expectations,and changes in other actuarial assumptions.For OPEB p
lans,the primary drivers of the cumulative actuarial loss were the
decline in the discount rate in recent years and in the medical cost trend rate,which was higher than expected.These losses hav
e been offset partially by the recognition of future savings attributableto Medicare Part D subsidy receipts.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
102JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The following tables present 
the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated statements of income for the Firm™s U.S.and non-U.S.
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.
OPEB plans(e)Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20062005(b)2004(b)(c)(d)200620052004
(c)(d)200620052004
(c)(d)Components of net periodic benefit costBenefits earned during the period
$281
$293$271
$37
$25$17
$9$13$15
Interest cost on benefit obligations452453368
12010487
788181
Expected return on plan assets(692)(694)(556)
(122)(109)(90)
(93)(90)(86)
Amortization:Net actuarial loss12424
453844
2912Š
Prior service cost (credit)5514
Š11(19)(10)Š
Curtailment (gain) loss2381ŠŠ2(17)8
Settlement (gain) lossŠŠŠ4Š(1)
ŠŠŠSpecial termination benefitsŠŠŠ1Š11
212Subtotal 6064129
865969
8(10)20
Other defined benefit pension plans(a)231363924
NANANA
Total defined benefit plans 
6267130
1229893
NANANA
Total defined contribution plans 
254237187
199155130
NANANA
Total pension and OPEB cost included in
Compensation expense$316
$304$317
$321
$253$223
$8$(10)$20
(a)Includes immaterial non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans.
(b) Revised primarily to incorporate amounts related to the U.S.defined benefit pension plans not subject to Title IV of the Em
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (e.g.,Excess Retirement Plan).
(c) Effective July 1,2004,the Firm assumed the obligations of heritage Bank One's pension and OPEB plans.These plans were simil
ar to those of heritage JPMorgan Chase.The heritage Bank One plans
were merged into the JPMorgan Chase plans effective December 31,2004.
(d)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of the heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

(e)The Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 resulted in a reduction of $32 million,$15 million 
and $5 million in 2006,2005 and 2004,respectively,in net periodic
benefit cost.The impact on 2006 and 2005 costs were higher as a result of the final Medicare Part D regulations issued on Janua
ry 21,2005,which were reflected beginning as of August 1,2005,
the next measurement date for the plan.The following table presents the incremental effect of applying SFAS 158 on individual line items on the Consolidated balance s
heets:Before application SFAS 158After application 
December 31,2006 (in millions)of SFAS 158adjustments of SFAS 158
Line itemOther assets$53,328$(1,563)$51,765
(a)Total assets1,353,083(1,563)1,351,520
Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities88,557(461)88,096
(b)Total liabilities1,236,191(461)1,235,730
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)(455)(1,102)(1,557)
Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity1,353,083(1,563)1,351,520
(a)Includes overfunded defined benefit pension and OPEB plans of $2.3 billion.
(b)Includes underfunded defined benefit pension and OPEB plans of $596 million.
The estimated amounts that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost,before tax,in 2007 are as follows:
Defined benefit pension plansOPEB plans
Year ended December 31,2007 (in millions)
U.S.Non-U.S.U.S.Non-U.S.
Net actuarial loss$Š$52$34$Š
Prior service cost (credit)
5Š(16)Š
Total
$5$52$18$Š
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
103U.S.Non-U.S.
December 31,2006200520062005Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations
Discount rate:
Defined benefit pension plans5.95%5.70%2.25-5.10%2.00-4.70%OPEB plans5.905.655.104.70Rate of compensation increase4.004.003.00-4.003.00-3.75Health care cost trend rate:
Assumed for next year10.0010.006.637.50Ultimate5.005.004.004.00Year when rate will reach ultimate
2014201320102010Plan assumptionsJPMorgan Chase™s expected long-term rate of return for U.S.defined benefit

pension and OPEB plan assets is a blended average of the investment advi-

sor™s projected long-term (10 years or more) returns for the various asset

classes,weighted by the portfolio allocation.Returns on asset classes are

developed using a forward-looking building-block approach and are not

strictly based upon historical returns.Equity returns are generally developed

as the sum of inflation,expected real earnings growth and expected long-

term dividend yield.Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of infla-

tion,real bond yield and risk spread (as appropriate),adjusted for the expect-

ed effect on returns from changing yields.Other asset-class returns are

derived from their relationship to the equity and bond markets.
For the U.K.defined benefit pension plan,which represents the most signifi-
cant of the non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans,procedures similar to

those in the U.S.are used to develop the expected long-term rate of return on

defined benefit pension plan assets,taking into consideration local market

conditions and the specific allocation of plan assets.The expected long-term

rate of return on U.K.plan assets is an average of projected long-term returns

for each asset class,selected by reference to the yield on long-term U.K.gov-

ernment bonds and AA-rated long-term corporate bonds,plus an equity risk

premium above the risk-free rate.
In 2006 and 2005,the discount rate used in determining the benefit obliga-
tion under the U.S.
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans was selected by
reference to the yield on a portfolio of bonds with redemption dates and
coupons that closely match each of the plan™s projected cash flows;such

portfolio is derived from a broad-based universe of high-quality corporate

bonds as of the measurement date.In years in which this hypothetical bond

portfolio generates excess cash,such excess is assumed to be reinvested at

the one-year forward rates implied by the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve

published as of the measurement date.Prior to 2005,discount rates were

selected by reference to the year-end Moody™s corporate AA rate,as well as

other high-quality indices with a duration that was similar to that of the

respective plan's benefit obligations.The discount rates for the U.K.defined

benefit pension and OPEB plans represent rates from the yield curve of the

year-end iBoxx £ corporate AA 15-year-plus bond index with durations corre-

sponding to those of the underlying benefit obligations.
The following tables present the weighted-average annualized actuarial
assumptions for the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and the
components of net periodic benefit costs for the Firm™s U.S.and non-U.S.

defined benefit pension and OPEB plans,as of and for the periods indicated:
U.S.Non-U.S.
Year ended December 31,
200620052004
200620052004
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs
Discount rate:
Defined benefit pension plans5.70%5.75%6.00%
2.00-4.70%2.00-5.30%2.00-5.75%
OPEB plans5.655.25-5.75(a)6.004.705.305.40
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets:
Defined benefit pension plans7.507.507.50-7.75
3.25-5.503.25-5.753.00-6.50
OPEB plans6.846.80(b)4.75-7.00NANANA
Rate of compensation increase4.004.004.25-4.50
3.00-3.751.75-3.751.75-3.75
Health care cost trend rate:
Assumed for next year10.0010.0010.00
7.507.506.50
Ultimate5.005.005.00
4.004.004.00
Year when rate will reach ultimate
201320122011
201020102009
(a)The OPEB plan was remeasured as of August 1,2005,and a rate of 5.25% was used from the period of August 1,2005,through Decem
ber 31,2005.
(b)In 2005 the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for the Firm™s OPEB plan was revised to show the aggregate expe
cted return for the heritage Bank One and JPMorgan Chase plans.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
104JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The following table presents the effect of a one-percentage-point change in
the assumed health care cost trend rate on JPMorgan Chase™s total service

and interest cost and accumulated postretirement benefit obligation:For the year ended December 31,20061-Percentage- 1-Percentage- 
(in millions)point increase 
point decrease Effect on total service and interest costs$4$(3)
Effect on postretirement obligation63(54)
At December 31,2006,the Firm increased the discount rates used to deter-
mine its benefit obligations for the U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB

plans based upon current market interest rates,which will result in a decrease

in expense of approximately $23 million for 2007.The 2007 expected long-

term rate of return on U.S.pension plan assets remained at 7.50%.The 2007

expected long-term rate of return on the Firm™s U.S.OPEB plan assets

increased from 6.84% to 7.00%.The Firm maintained the health care benefit

obligation trend assumption at 10% for 2007,declining to an ultimate rate

of 5% in 2014.The interest crediting rate assumption at December 31,2006,

used to determine pension benefits changed primarily due to changes in mar-
ket interest rates,which will result in additional expense of $10 million for

2007.The assumed rate of compensation increase remained at 4.00% as of

December 31,2006.The most significant change to the assumptions used to

determine net periodic benefit costs in 2006 from the prior year were lower
discount rates for the Firm™s non-U.S.plans,both defined benefit pension and

OPEB,due to lower market interest rates,resulting in $23 million higher com-

pensation expense in 2006 compared with 2005.JPMorgan Chase™s U.S.
defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expenses aremost sensitive to the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.With all

other assumptions held constant,a 25Œbasis point decline in the expected

long-term rate of return on U.S.plan assets would result in an increase of

approximately $27 million in 2007 U.S.
defined benefit pension and OPEB planexpenses.A 25Œbasis point decline in the discount rate for the U.S.plans would

result in an increase in 2007 U.S.
defined benefit pension and OPEB planexpenses of approximately $3 million and an increase in the related projected

benefit obligations of approximately $217 million.A 25
Œbasis point decline inthe discount rates for the non-U.S.plans would result in an increase in the
2007 non-U.S.
defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expenses of approxi-
mately$19 million.A 25Œbasis point increase in the interest crediting rate for
the U.S.defined benefit pension plan would result in an increase in 2007 U.S.

defined benefit pension expense of approximately $10 million and an increase

in the related projected benefit obligations of approximately $82 million.
Investment strategy and asset allocation 
The investment policy for the Firm™s postretirement employee benefit plan

assets is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate to the respec-
tive plan's needs and goals,using a global portfolio of various asset classes

diversified by market segment,economic sector,and issuer.Specifically,the

goal is to optimize the asset mix for future benefit obligations,while manag-

ing various risk factors and each plan™s investment return objectives.For

example,long-duration fixed income securities are included in the U.S.quali-

fied pension plan™s asset allocation,in recognition of its long-duration obliga-

tions.Plan assets are managed by a combination of internal and external

investment managers and are rebalanced to within approved ranges,to the

extent economically practical.
The Firm™s U.S.defined benefit pension plan assets are held in various trusts
and are invested in a well-diversified portfolio of equities (including U.S.large

and small capitalization and international equities),fixed income (including

corporate and government bonds),Treasury inflation-indexed and high-yield

securities,real estate,cash equivalents,and alternative investments.Non-U.S.

defined benefit pension plan assets are held in various trusts and are similarly

invested in well-diversified portfolios of equity,fixed income and other securi-

ties.Assets of the Firm™s COLI policies,which are used to fund partially the

U.S.OPEB plan,are held in separate accounts with an insurance company

and are invested in equity and fixed income index funds.In addition,tax-

exempt municipal debt securities,held in a trust,were used to fund the U.S.

OPEB plan in prior periods;as of December 31,2006,there are no remaining

assets in the trust.As of December 31,2006,the assets used to fund the

Firm™s U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB plans do not

include JPMorgan Chase common stock,except in connection with invest-

ments in third-party stock-index funds.
The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation at December 31 for the years indicated,and the respective ap
proved range/target allocation by
asset category,for the Firm™s U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:
Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.
(a)OPEB plans(b)Target% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assets
December 31,Allocation
20062005Allocation
20062005Allocation
20062005Asset categoryDebt securities10-30%
31%33%73%
70%75%50%
50%54%Equity securities25-60
555726
262450
5046Real estate5-20
86Š11ŠŠŠAlternatives15-50
6413ŠŠŠŠTotal
100%100%100%100%
100%100%100%
100%100%(a)Represents the U.K.defined benefit pension plan only,as plans outside the U.K.are not significant.
(b)Represents the U.S.OPEB plan only,as the U.K.OPEB plan is unfunded.
Employee stock-based awards
The Firm has granted restricted stock,restricted stock units (ﬁRSUsﬂ),stock options,
and stock-settled SARs to certain of its employees.
In 2006,JPMorgan Chase granted long-term stock-based awards under the
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the ﬁ2005 Planﬂ).In 2005,JPMorgan Chase
granted long-term stock-based awards under the 1996 Long-Term Incentive

Plan as amended (the ﬁ1996 planﬂ) until May 2005 and under the 2005 Plan
thereafter to certain key employees.These two plans,plus prior Firm plans and

plans assumed as the result of acquisitions,constitute the Firm™s stock-based

compensation plans (ﬁLTI Plansﬂ).The 2005 Plan became effective on May 17,

2005,after approval by shareholders at the 2005 annual meeting.The 2005

Plan replaced three existing stock-based compensation plans Œ the 1996 Plan
and two nonshareholder-approved plans Œ all of which expired in May 2005.

Under the terms of the 2005 Plan,275 million shares of common stock are
available for issuance during its five-year term.The 2005 Plan is the only active

plan under which the Firm is currently granting stock-based incentive awards.
Restricted stock and RSUs are granted by JPMorgan Chase at no cost to the

recipient.These awards are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have

lapsed,including continued employment for a specified period.The recipient of a

share of restricted stock is entitled to voting rights and dividends on the common
stock.An RSU entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock after the

applicable restrictions lapse;the recipient is entitled to receive cash payments

equivalent to any dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the peri-

od the RSU is outstanding.Effective January 2005,the equity portion of the Firm™s

annual incentive awards were granted primarily in the form of RSUs.The Firm also

periodically grants discretionary share-based payment awards,primarily in the

form of both employee stock options and SARs.
Under the LTI Plans,stock options and SARs have been granted with an exer-

cise price equal to JPMorgan Chase™s common stock price on the grant date.

Generally,options and SARs cannot be exercised until at least one year after

the grant date and become exercisable over various periods as determined at

the time of the grant.These awards generally expire 10 years after the grant

date.
The Firm™s share-based compensation awards generally vest in multiple
tranches.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
105Estimated future benefit payments 
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid,which include the effect of expected future service,for the y
ears indicated.The OPEB medical
and life insurance payments are net of expected retiree contributions:
U.S.Non-U.S.
Year ended December 31,defined benefit defined benefit OPEB beforeMedicare
(in millions)pension planspension plansMedicare Part D subsidyPart D subsidy
2007$561$83$130$15
20085638113216

20095838813318

20106029313519

20116239713720
Years 2012Œ20163,417533657121
The following table presents JPMorgan Chase™s actual rate of return on plan assets for the U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pens
ion and OPEB plans:U.S.Non-U.S.
December 31,200620052004
200620052004
Actual rate of return:
Defined benefit pension plans13.40%7.50%12.50%
2.80-7.30%2.70-15.90%2.30-10.50%
OPEB plans9.303.307.10
NANANA
Note 8 Œ Employee stock-based incentivesEffective January 1,2006,the Firm adopted SFAS 123R and all related inter-
pretations using the modified prospective transition method.SFAS 123R

requires all share-based payments to employees,including employee stock

options and stock appreciation rights (ﬁSARsﬂ),to be measured at their grant
date fair values.Results for prior periods have not been restated.The Firm

also adopted the transition election provided by FSP FAS 123(R)-3.
JPMorgan Chase had previously adopted SFAS 123,effective January 1,2003,

using the prospective transition method.Under SFAS 123,the Firm accounted

for its stock-based compensation awards at fair value,similar to the SFAS

123R requirements.However,under the prospective transition method,

JPMorgan Chase continued to account for unmodified stock options that were
outstanding as of December 31,2002,using the APB 25 intrinsic value

method.Under this method,no expense was recognized for stock options

granted at an exercise price equal to the stock price on the grant date,since

such options have no intrinsic value.
Upon adopting SFAS 123R,the Firm began to recognize in the Consolidated
statements of income compensation expense for unvested stock options previ-
ously accounted for under APB 25.Additionally,JPMorgan Chase recognized

as compensation expense an immaterial cumulative effect adjustment resulting

from the SFAS 123R requirement to estimate forfeitures at the grant date

instead of recognizing them as incurred.Finally,the Firm revised its accounting

policies for share-based payments granted to retirement-eligible employees

under SFAS 123R.Prior to adopting SFAS 123R,the Firm™s accounting policy

for share-based payment awards granted to retirement-eligible employees was

to recognize compensation cost over the award™s stated service period.For

awards granted to retirement-eligible employees in 2006,JPMorgan Chase

recognized compensation expense on the grant date without giving considera-

tion to the impact of post employment restrictions.In the first quarter of 2006,

the Firm also began to accrue the estimated cost of stock awards granted to

retirement-eligible employees in January 2007.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
106JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Employee stock option and SARs activityCompensation expense,which is measured at the grant date as the fair value of employee stock options and SARs,is recognized in 
Net income as described above.The fol-
lowing table summarizes JPMorgan Chase™s employee stock option and SARs activity for the year ended December 31,2006,including 
awards granted to key employees
and awards granted in prior years under broad-based plans:
Year ended December 31,2006
(in thousands,exceptNumber ofWeighted-averageWeighted-averageAggregate
weighted-average data)options/SARsexercise priceremaining contractual life (in years)intrinsic value
Outstanding,January 1
444,157$38.61
Granted
15,22945.85
Exercised(70,446)29.93
Forfeited
(3,365)36.14
Canceled(9,348)47.88
Outstanding,December 31376,227$40.31
4.3$3,384,553
Exercisable,December 31
317,17440.63
3.82,794,461
The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense for each tranche of each
award as if it were a separate award with its own vesting date.For each

tranche granted (other than grants to employees who are retirement eligible at

the grant date),compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis

from the grant date until the vesting date of the respective tranche,provided

that the employees will not become retirement eligible during the vesting peri-
od.For each tranche granted to employees who will become retirement eligible

during the vesting period,compensation expense is recognized on a straight-

line basis from the grant date until the earlier of the employee's retirement eli-

gibility date or the vesting date of the respective tranche.
The Firm™s policy for issuing shares upon settlement of employee share-based
payment awards is to issue either new shares of common stock or treasury

shares.During 2006,the Firm issued new shares of common stock from

January 1 through May 31,2006,and treasury shares from June 1 through

December 31,2006.
On March 21,2006,the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase pro-

gram that authorizes the repurchase of up to $8 billion of the Firm™s common

shares,which supersedes a $6 billion stock repurchase program approved in

2004.The $8 billion authorization includes shares to be repurchased to offset

issuances under the Firm™s employee stock-based plans.The actual number of

shares repurchased is subject to various factors,including:market conditions;

legal considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity;the

Firm™s capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles);internal

capital generation;and alternative potential investment opportunities.The

repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables;may

be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transac-

tions,or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs;and may be suspended at any time.
In December 2005,the Firm accelerated the vesting of approximately 41 mil-
lion unvested,out-of-the-money employee stock options granted in 2001

under the Growth and Performance Incentive Program (ﬁGPIPﬂ),which were

scheduled to vest in January 2007.These options were not modified other

than to accelerate vesting.The related expense was approximately $145 mil-

lion,and was recognized as compensation expense in the fourth quarter of

2005.The Firm believed that at the time the options were accelerated they

had limited economic value since the exercise price of the accelerated options
was $51.22 and the closing price of the Firm™s common stock on the effective
date of the acceleration was $39.69.
Restricted stock and RSU activityCompensation expense for restricted stock and RSUs is measured based upon
the number of shares granted multiplied by the stock price at the grant date,

and is recognized in Net income as previously described.The following table

summarizes JPMorgan Chase™s restricted stock and RSU activity for 2006:
Restricted stock and RSU activityYear ended December 31,2006

(in thousands,except weighted 
Number ofWeighted-average
average data)
Sharesgrant date fair value
Outstanding,January 1
84,604$35.22
Granted
44,55339.43
Lapsed(a)(33,327)31.00
Forfeited
(7,374)40.28
Restricted stock/RSUs outstanding December 3188,456$38.50
(a)Lapsed awards represent awards granted in prior years for which,in the case of restricted
stock,restrictions have lapsed;and,in the case of RSUs,the awards have been converted

into common stock.The total fair value of shares that vested during the years ended December 31,
2006,2005 and 2004,was $1.3 billion,$1.1 billion and $1.7 billion,respectively.
The vesting of certain restricted stock and RSU awards issued prior to 2002
was conditioned upon certain service requirements being met and JPMorgan

Chase™s common stock reaching and sustaining target prices within a five-

year performance period.During 2002,it was determined that it was no

longer probable that the target stock prices related to forfeitable awards

granted in 1999,2000,and 2001 would be achieved within their respective

performance periods,and accordingly,previously accrued expenses were

reversed.The target stock prices for these awards ranged from $73.33 to

$85.00.These awards were forfeited as follows:1.2 million shares granted in

1999 were forfeited in January 2004;1.2 million shares granted in 2000

were forfeited in January 2005;and 1.2 million shares granted in 2001 were

forfeited in January 2006.
The weighted-average grant date per share fair value of stock options and SARs granted during the years ended December 31,2006,
2005 and 2004,was $10.99,
$10.44 and $13.77,respectively.The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31,2006,2005 and 
2004 was $994 million,$364
million and $520 million,respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
107Impact of adoption of SFAS 123R 
During 2006,the incremental expense related to the Firm™s adoption of SFAS
123R was $712 million.This amount represents an accelerated noncash recog-

nition of costs that would otherwise have been incurred in future periods.Also

as a result of adopting SFAS 123R,the Firm™s Income from continuing opera-

tions (pretax) for the year ended December 31,2006,was lower by $712 mil-

lion,and Income from continuing operations (after-tax),as well as Net income,

for the year ended December 31,2006,was lower by $442 million,than if the

Firm had continued to account for share-based compensation under APB 25

and SFAS 123.Basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing opera-

tions,as well as basic and diluted Net income per share,for the year ended

December 31,2006 were $0.13 and $0.12 lower,respectively,than if the Firm

had not adopted SFAS 123R.
The Firm recognized noncash compensation expense related to its various
employee stock-based incentive awards of $2.4 billion (including the $712 mil-

lion incremental impact of adopting SFAS 123R),$1.6 billion and $1.3 billion

for the years ended December 31,2006,2005 and 2004,respectively,in its

Consolidated statements of income.
At December 31,2006,approximately $1.0
billion (pretax) of compensation cost relatedto unvested awards has not yet
been charged to Net income.That cost is expected to be amortized into com-

pensation expense over a weighted-average period of 1.2 years.The Firm does

not capitalize any compensation cost related to share-based compensation
awards to employees.
Cash flows and tax benefits 
The total income tax benefit related to stock-based compensation arrange-

ments recognized in the Firm™s Consolidated statements of income for the

years ended December 31,2006,2005 and 2004,was $947 million,$625

million and $519 million,respectively.
Prior to adopting SFAS 123R,the Firm presented all tax benefits of deduc-
tions resulting from share-based compensation awards as operating cash

flows in its Consolidated statements of cash flows.SFAS 123R requires the

cash flows resulting from the tax benefits of tax deductions in excess of the
compensation expense recognized for those share-based compensation
awards (i.e.,excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows.The

$302 million of excess tax benefits classified as a financing cash inflow dur-
ing 2006 would have been classified as an operating cash inflow if the Firm

had not adopted SFAS 123R.
The following table sets forth the cash received from the exercise of stock
options under all share-based compensation arrangements and the actual tax

benefit realized related to the tax deduction from the exercise of stock
options.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
Cash received for options exercised$1,924
$635$764
Tax benefit realized
21165204
Comparison of the fair and intrinsic value measurement methods
The following table presents Net income and basic and diluted earnings per

share as reported,and as if all 2005 and 2004 share-based payment awards

were accounted for at fair value.All 2006 awards were accounted for at fair

value.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except per share data)20052004
(a)Net income as reported$8,483$4,466
Add:Employee stock-based compensation
expense included in reported Net income,

net of related tax effects938778
Deduct:Employee stock-based compensation
expense determined under the fair 
value method for all awards,net of related
tax effects(1,015)(960)
Pro forma Net income
$8,406$4,284
Earnings per share:
Basic:As reported$2.43$1.59
Pro forma2.401.52
Diluted:As reported$2.38$1.55
Pro forma2.361.48
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The following table presents the assumptions used to value employee stock
options and SARs granted during the period under the Black-Scholes valuation

model:Year ended December 31,
200620052004
Weighted-average annualized
valuation assumptionsRisk-free interest rate
5.11%4.25%3.44%
Expected dividend yield2.893.793.59
Expected common stock price volatility
233741
Expected life (in years)6.86.86.7
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R,the Firm used the historical volatility of its
common stock price as the expected volatility assumption in valuing options.

The Firm completed a review of its expected volatility assumption in 2006.

Effective October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase began to value its employee stock

options granted or modified after that date using an expected volatility assump-

tion derived from the implied volatility of its publicly traded stock options.
The expected life assumption is an estimate of the length of time that an

employee might hold an option or SAR before it is exercised or cancelled.The

expected life assumption was developed using historic experience.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
108JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 10 ŒSecurities 
Securities are classified as AFS,Held-to-maturity (ﬁHTMﬂ) or Trading.Trading
securities are discussed in Note 4 on page 98 of this Annual Report.Securities

are classified primarily as AFS when purchased as part of the Firm™s manage-

ment of its structural interest rate risk.AFS securities are carried at fair value

on the Consolidated balance sheets.Unrealized gains and losses after SFAS

133 valuation adjustments are reported as net increases or decreases to

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).The specific identification

method is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS securities,

which are included in Securities gains(losses) on the Consolidated statements

of income.Securities that the Firm has the positive intent and ability to hold

to maturity are classified as HTM and are carried at amortized cost on the
Consolidated balance sheets.The Firm has not classified new purchases of

securities as HTM for the past several years.
The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS securities:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
(b)Realized gains$399
$302$576
Realized losses(942)(1,638)(238)
Net realized Securities gains (losses)
(a)$(543)
$(1,336)$338
(a)Proceeds from securities sold were generally within 2% of amortized cost.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Note 9 Œ Noninterest expense
Merger costs
Costs associated with the Merger and The Bank of New York transaction are

reflected in the Merger costs caption of the Consolidated statements of
income.A summary of such costs,by expense category,is shown in the fol-

lowing table for 2006,2005 and 2004.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(c)Expense categoryCompensation$26
$238$467
Occupancy25(77)448
Technology and communications and other
239561450
Bank of New York transaction
(a)15ŠŠTotal
(b)$305
$722$1,365
(a)Represents Compensation and Technology and communications and other.
(b)With the exception of occupancy-related write-offs,all of the costs in the table require the
expenditure of cash.(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The table below shows the change in the liability balance related to the costs
associated with the Merger.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20062005(b)2004(c)Liability balance,beginning of period
$311
$952$Š
Recorded as merger costs2907221,365
Recorded as goodwillŠ(460)1,028
Liability utilized (446)(903)(1,441)
Liability balance,end of period$155
(a)$311$952
(a)Excludes $21 million related to The Bank of New York transaction.
(b)2005 has been revised to reflect the current presentation.

(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
109The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and HTM securities were as follows for the dates indicated:
20062005GrossGrossGrossGross
AmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFairAmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFair
December 31,(in millions)costgainslossesvaluecostgainslossesvalue
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
U.S.treasuries
$2,398$Š$23$2,375
$4,245$24$2$4,267
Mortgage-backed securities
322133
803Š83
Agency obligations
788Š86
16516Š181
Collateralized mortgage obligations
ŠŠŠŠ
4ŠŠ4
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations
75,43433446075,308
22,604959622,017
Obligations of state and political subdivisions637174650
712217726
Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
6,1507526,105
5,51212185,506
Corporate debt securities
61113609
5,75439745,719
Equity securities3,68912513,813
3,17911073,282
Other,primarily asset-backed securities
(a)2,8905022,938
5,73823235,738
Total available-for-sale securities$91,919$544$546$91,917
$47,993$257$727$47,523
Held-to-maturity securities(b)Total held-to-maturity securities 
$58$2$Š$60
$77$3$Š$80
(a)Includes collateralized mortgage obligations of private issuers.
(b)Consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S.government-sponsored entities.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
110JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Securities with gross unrealized lossesLess than 12 months 12 months or more    
Total
GrossGrossTotalGross
FairunrealizedFairunrealizedFairunrealized
2005 (in millions) valuelossesvaluelossesvaluelosses
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
U.S.treasuries$3,789$1$85$1$3,874$2

Mortgage-backed securitiesŠŠ47Š47Š
Agency obligations7Š13Š20Š
Collateralized mortgage obligations15Š30Š45Š
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations10,60724211,00735421,614596

Obligations of state and political subdivisions237310743447

Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments2,380177112,45118

Corporate debt securities3,07652678223,75474

Equity securities1,83872Š1,8407
Other,primarily asset-backed securities7781437091,14823
Total securities with 
gross 
unrealized losses
$22,727$336$12,410$391$35,137$727
Impairment of AFS securities is evaluated considering numerous factors,and
their relative significance varies case-by-case.Factors considered include the

length of time and extent to which the market value has been less than cost;

the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer of a security;

and the Firm™s intent and ability to retain the security in order to allow for an

anticipated recovery in fair value.If,based upon an analysis of each of the

above factors,it is determined that the impairment is other-than-temporary,

the carrying value of the security is written down to fair value,and a loss is

recognized through earnings.
Included in the $546 million of gross unrealized losses on AFS securities at

December 31,2006,was $242 million of unrealized losses that have existed for

a period greater than 12 months.These securities are predominately rated AAA

and the unrealized losses primarily are due to overall increases in market inter-

est rates and not concerns regarding the underlying credit of the issuers.The

majority of the securities with unrealized losses aged greater than 12 months
are obligations of U.S.government-sponsored enterprises and have a fair value

at December 31,2006,that is within 3% of their amortized cost basis.
The following table presents the fair value and gross unrealized losses for AFS securities by aging category at December 31:
Securities with gross unrealized lossesLess than 12 months 12 months or more    
Total
GrossGrossTotalGross
FairunrealizedFairunrealizedFairunrealized
2006 (in millions) valuelossesvaluelossesvaluelosses
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
U.S.treasuries
$2,268$23$Š$Š$2,268$23
Mortgage-backed securities
81ŠŠ81
Agency obligations
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Collateralized mortgage obligations
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations
17,8772626,94619824,823460
Obligations of state and political subdivisionsŠŠ18041804
Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
3,141132,354395,49552
Corporate debt securities
3873ŠŠ3873
Equity securities171ŠŠ171
Other,primarily asset-backed securities
1,55618211,6382
Total securities with 
gross 
unrealized losses$25,254$304$9,562$242$34,816$546
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
111The following table presents the amortized cost,estimated fair value and average yield at December 31,2006,of JPMorgan Chase™s 
AFS and HTM securities bycontractual maturity:
Available-for-sale securitiesHeld-to-maturity securities
By remaining maturity at December 31,2006AmortizedFairAverageAmortizedFairAverage
(in millions,except rates)costvalueyield
(b)costvalueyield
(b)Due in one year or less$7,067$7,0632.81%$Š$ŠŠ%
Due after one year through five years
4,0074,0073.95ŠŠŠ
Due after five years through 10 years1,2241,2114.7344466.91
Due after 10 years(a)79,62179,6365.5814146.61
Total securities$91,919$91,9175.28%$58$606.84%
(a)Includes securities with no stated maturity.Substantially all of the Firm™s MBSs and CMOs are due in 10 years or more based 
upon contractual maturity.The estimated duration,which reflects antici-
pated future prepayments based upon a consensus of dealers in the market,is approximately four years for MBSs and CMOs.
(b)The average yield is based upon amortized cost balances at year end.Yields are derived by dividing interest income by total 
amortized cost.Taxable-equivalent yields are used where applicable.
Note 11 ŒSecurities financing activities
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements,repurchase agreements,
securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned transactions,primarily

to finance the Firm™s inventory positions,acquire securities to cover short

positions and settle other securities obligations.The Firm also enters into

these transactions to accommodate customers™ needs.
Securities purchased under resale agreements (ﬁresale agreementsﬂ) and
securities sold under repurchase agreements (ﬁrepurchase agreementsﬂ) are

generally treated as collateralized financing transactions and are carried on

the Consolidated balance sheets at the amounts the securities will be subse-
quently sold or repurchased,plus accrued interest.Where appropriate,resale

and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net
basis in accordance with FIN 41.JPMorgan Chase takes possession of securi
tiespurchased under resale agreements.On 
a daily basis,
JPMorgan Chase monitorsthe market value of the underlying collateral,primarily U.S.and non-U.S.gov-

ernment and agency securities that it has received from its counterparties,

and requests additional collateral when necessary.
Transactions similar to financing activities that do not meet the SFAS 140 
definition of a repurchase agreement are accounted for as ﬁbuysﬂand ﬁsellsﬂ

rather than financing transactions.These transactions are accounted for as a

purchase (sale) of the underlying securities with a forward obligation to sell

(purchase) the securities.The forward purchase (sale) obligation,a derivative,

is recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets at its fair value,with changes

in fair value recorded in Principal transactions revenue.
Securities borrowed and securities lent are recorded at the amount of cash
collateral advanced or received.Securities borrowed consist primarily of 

government and equity securities.JPMorgan Chase monitors the market value

of the securities borrowed and lent on a daily basis and calls for additional
collateral when appropriate.Fees received or paid are recorded in Interest

income or Interest expense.
December 31,(in millions)
20062005Securities purchased under resale agreements$122,479
$129,570
Securities borrowed73,68874,604Securities sold under repurchase agreements
$143,253
$103,052
Securities loaned8,63714,072JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments it owns to collateralize
repurchase agreements and other securities financings.Pledged securities that

can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as financial instru-
ments owned (pledged to various parties) on the Consolidated balance sheets.
At December 31,2006,the Firm had received securities as collateral that

could be repledged,delivered or otherwise used with a fair value of approxi-

mately $317 billion.This collateral was generally obtained under resale or

securities-borrowing agreements.Of these securities,approximately $291 bil-

lion were repledged,delivered or otherwise used,generally as collateral under
repurchase agreements,securities lending agreements or to cover short sales.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
112JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 12 ŒLoans
Loans that are originated or purchased by the Firm and that management hasthe intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future are reported at the
principal amount outstanding,net of the Allowance for loan losses,unearned

income and any net deferred loan fees.Loans that are either originated or pur-

chased by the Firm and that management intends to sell or to securitize are
classified as held-for-sale and are carried at the lower of cost or fair value,

with valuation changes recorded in Noninterest revenue.Gains or losses on

held-for-sale loans are also recorded in Noninterest revenue.Interest income is

recognized using the interest method,or on a basis approximating a level rate

of return over the term of the loan.Loans are transferred from the retained portfolio to the held-for-sale portfolio

when management decides to sell the loan.Transfers to held-for-sale are

recorded at the lower of cost or fair value on the date of transfer;losses attrib-

uted to credit losses are charged off to the Allowance for loan losses and losses

due to interest rates,or exchange rates,are recognized in Noninterest revenue.
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest is discontinued.
Loans (other than certain consumer loans discussed below) are placed on
nonaccrual status immediately if,in the opinion of management,full payment

of principal or interest is in doubt,or when principal or interest is 90 days or

more past due and collateral,if any,is insufficient to cover principal and inter-

est.Interest accrued but not collected at the date a loan is placed on nonac-

crual status is reversed against Interest income.In addition,the amortization

of net deferred loan fees is suspended.Interest income on nonaccrual loans is

recognized only to the extent it is received in cash.However,where there is

doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of loan principal,all cash thereafter

received is applied to reduce the carrying value of such loans.Loans are

restored to accrual status only when interest and principal payments are
brought current and future payments are reasonably assured.Loans are

charged off to the Allowance for loan losses when it is highly certain that a

loss has been realized.Consumer loans are generally charged to the Allowance for loan losses upon
reaching specified stages of delinquency,in accordance with the Federal

Financial Institutions Examination Council (ﬁFFIECﬂ) policy.For example,credit

card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account
becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of
the filing of bankruptcy,whichever is earlier.Residential mortgage products

are generally charged off to net realizable value at 180 days past due.Other

consumer products,if collateralized,are generally charged off to net realizable

value at 120 days past due.
Accrued interest on residential mortgage prod-ucts,automobile financings,education financings and certain other consumer

loans are accounted for in accordance with the nonaccrual loan policy discussedin the preceding paragraph.Interest and fees related to credit card loans con-

tinue to accrue until the loan is charged off or paid in full.Accrued interest

on all other consumer loans is generally reversed against Interest income

when the loan is charged off.A collateralized loan is considered an in-sub-

stance foreclosure and is reclassified to assets acquired in loan satisfactions,

within Other assets,only when JPMorgan Chase has taken physical possession

of the collateral,regardless of whether formal foreclosure proceedings have

taken place.
The composition of the loan portfolio at each of the dates indicated was

as follows:December 31,(in millions)
20062005U.S.wholesale loans:
Commercial and industrial$77,788
$70,233
Real estate14,23713,612Financial institutions14,10311,100Lease financing receivables
2,6082,621Other9,95014,499Total U.S.wholesale loans118,686
112,065Non-U.S.wholesale loans:
Commercial and industrial43,42827,452Real estate1,1461,475Financial institutions19,1637,975Lease financing receivables
1,1741,144Other145ŠTotal non-U.S.wholesale loans65,056
38,046Total wholesale loans:
(a)Commercial and industrial121,21697,685Real estate(b)15,38315,087Financial institutions33,26619,075Lease financing receivables
3,7823,765Other10,09514,499Total wholesale loans183,742
150,111Total consumer loans:
(c)Home equity 85,73073,866Mortgage59,66858,959Auto loans and leases41,00946,081All other loans 27,09718,393Credit card receivables
(d)85,88171,738Total consumer loans299,385
269,037Total loans
(e)(f)$483,127
$419,148
(a)Includes Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset
Management.(b)Represents credits extended for real estateŒrelated purposes to borrowers who are primarily
in the real estate development or investment businesses and for which the primary repayment
is from the sale,lease,management,operations or refinancing of the property.
(c)Includes Retail Financial Services and Card Services.

(d)Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.

(e)Loans are presented net of unearned income and net deferred loan fees of $2.3 billion and
$3.0 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(f)Includes loans held-for-sale (primarily related to securitization and syndication activities) of
$55.2 billion and $34.2 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
The following table reflects information about the Firm™s loan sales:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20062005(a)2004(a)(b)Net gains on sales of loans (includinglower of cost or fair value adjustments)
$568
$365$459
(a)Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
113Impaired loans
JPMorgan Chase accounts for and discloses nonaccrual loans as impaired loans
and recognizes their interest income as discussed previously for nonaccrual
loans.The following are excluded from impaired loans:small-balance,homo-

geneous consumer loans;loans carried at fair value or the lower of cost or

fair value;debt securities;and leases.
The table below sets forth information about JPMorgan Chase™s impaired
loans.The Firm primarily uses the discounted cash flow method for valuing

impaired loans:December 31,(in millions)
20062005Impaired loans with an allowance
$623
$1,095
Impaired loans without an allowance
(a)6680Total impaired loans$689
$1,175
Allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114
(b)153257(a)When the discounted cash flows,collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the 
carrying value of the loan,then the loan does not require an allowance under SFAS 114.
(b)The allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114 is included in JPMorgan Chase™s
Allowance for loan losses.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200620052004
Average balance of impaired 
loans during the year$990
$1,478$1,883
Interest income recognized on impaired loans during the year258Note 13 ŒAllowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase™s Allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale (risk-rated)
and consumer (scored) loan portfolios and represents management™s estimate

of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm™s loan portfolio as of December

31,2006,2005 and 2004.Management also computes an allowance for

wholesale lending-related commitments using a methodology similar to that
used for the wholesale loans.
The table below summarizes the Firm™s reporting of its allowance for credit losses:
Reported in:Allowance for 
credit losses on:Balance sheetIncome statement
LoansAllowance for loan lossesProvision for credit losses
Lending-related commitmentsOther liabilitiesProvision for credit losses
The Allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific component and a 
formula-based component.Within the formula-based component is a statistical

calculation and an adjustment to the statistical calculation.The asset-specific component relates to provisions 
for losses on loans consideredimpaired and measured pursuant 
to SFAS 114.An 
allowance 
is establishedwhen the discounted cash flows (or collateral value or observable market

price) of the loan is lower than the carrying value of that loan.To compute

the asset-specific component of the allowance,larger impaired loans are

evaluated individually,and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool

using historical loss experience for the respective class of assets.
The formula-based component covers performing wholesale and consumer
loans and is the product of a statistical calculation,as well as adjustments to

such calculation.These adjustments take into consideration model imprecision,

external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet
reflected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation.The statistical calculation is the product of probability of default and loss given
default.For risk-rated loans (generally loans originated by the wholesale lines of
business),these factors are differentiated by risk rating and maturity.For scored
loans (generally loans originated by the consumer lines of business),loss is pri-

marily determined by applying statistical loss factors and other risk indicators to
pools of loans by asset type.Adjustments to the statistical calculation for the

risk-rated portfolios are determined by creating estimated ranges using histori-

cal experience of both probability of default and loss given default.Factors

related to concentrated and deteriorating industries are also incorporated into

the calculation where relevant.Adjustments to the statistical calculation for the

scored loan portfolios are accomplished in part by analyzing the historical loss
experience for each major product segment.The estimated ranges and the

determination of the appropriate point within the range are based upon man-

agement™s view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and polit-

ical conditions,quality of underwriting standards,and other relevant internal

and external factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio.
The Allowance for lending-related commitments represents management™s 
estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm™s process of extending

credit as of December 31,2006,2005 and 2004.Mana
gement establishes anasset-specific allowance for lending-relatedcomm
itments that are considered
impaired and computes a formula-based allowance for performing wholesale

lending-related commitments.These are computed using a methodology simi-

lar to that used for the wholesale loan portfolio,modified for expected matu-

rities and probabilities of drawdown.
At least quarterly,the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk
Officer,the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the Firm,and discussed
with the Risk Policy and Audit Committees of the Board of Directors of the
Firm.As of December 31,2006,JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for

credit losses to be appropriate (i.e.,sufficient to absorb losses that are inher-

ent in the portfolio,including those not yet identifiable).
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for loan losses:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(d)Allowance for loan losses at 
January 1
$7,090
$ 7,320$4,523
Addition resulting from the Merger,
July 1,2004
ŠŠ3,123
Gross charge-offs(3,884)(4,869)(3,805)
(e)Gross recoveries8421,050706
Net charge-offs(3,042)
(3,819)(3,099)
Provision for loan losses:Provision excluding accountingpolicy conformity3,1533,5751,798
Accounting policy conformityŠŠ1,085
Total Provision for loan losses3,153
3,5752,883
Other78(a)14(110)
(f)Allowance for loan losses at 
December 31$7,279
(b)$ 7,090(c)$7,320
(g)(a)Primarily relates to loans acquired in The Bank of New York transaction in the fourth quarter
of 2006.(b) Includes $51 million of asset-specific and $7.2 billion of formula-based allowance.Included
within the formula-based allowance was $5.1 billion related to a statistical calculation and an

adjustment to the statistical calculation of $2.1 billion.(c)Includes $203 million of asset-specific and $6.9 billion of formula-based allowance
.Included with-
in the formula-based allowance was $5.1 
billion related to a statistical calculation(including $400million related to Hurricane Katrina),and an adjustment to a statistical calculation of $1.8 billion.
(d)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(e)Includes $406 million related to the Manufactured Home Loan portfolio in the fourth quar-
ter of 2004.(f)Primarily represents the transfer of the allowance for accrued interest and fees on reported
and securitized credit card loans.
(g)Includes $469 million of asset-specific and $6.8 billion of formula-based allowance.
Included within the formula-based allowance was $4.8 billion related to a statistical calcu-

lation and an adjustment to the statistical calculation of $2.0 billion.NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
114JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for lending-related
commitments:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(c)Allowance for lending-related 
commitments at January 1
$400
$ 492$324
Addition resulting from the Merger,
July 1,2004 
ŠŠ508
Provision for lending-related commitments:Provision excluding accountingpolicy conformity117(92)(112)
Accounting policy conformityŠŠ(227)
(d)Total Provision for lending-related 
commitments117
(92)(339)
Other(a)7Š(1)
Allowance for lending-related 
commitments at December 31(b)$524
$ 400$492
(a) 2006 amount relates to The Bank of New York transaction.
(b) 2006 includes $33 million of asset-specific and $491 million of formula-based allowance.2005
includes $60 million of asset-specific and $340 million of formula-based allowance.2004

includes $130 million of asset-specific and $362 million of formula-based allowance.The 

formula-based allowance for lending-related commitments is based upon a statistical calculation.

There is no adjustment to the statistical calculation for lending-related commitments.
(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(d) Represents a reduction of $227 million to conform provision methodologies in the whole-
sale portfolio.
Note 14 ŒLoan securitizations 
JPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety of its consumer and wholesale
loans.Consumer activities include securitizations of residential real estate,credit

card and automobile loans that are originated or purchased by Retail Financial
Services (ﬁRFSﬂ),and Card Services (ﬁCSﬂ).Wholesale activities include securiti-

zations of purchased residential real estate loans and commercial loans (prima-
rily real estateŒrelated) originated by the Investment Bank (ﬁIBﬂ).JPMorgan ChaseŒsponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as part of the securiti-
zation process.These SPEs are structured to meet the definition of a QSPE (as

discussed in Note 1 on page 94 of this Annual Report);accordingly,the

assets and liabilities of securitization-related QSPEs are not reflected in the
Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets (except for retained interests,as described

below) but are included on the balance sheet of the QSPE purchasing the
assets.Assets held by securitization-related QSPEs as of December 31,2006

and 2005,were as follows:
December 31,(in billions)
20062005Consumer activitiesCredit card receivables 
$86.4
$96.0
Automobile loans4.95.5Residential mortgage receivables
40.729.8Wholesale activities
Residential mortgages43.811.1Commercial and other(a)(b)87.161.8Total$262.9
$204.2
(a)Cosponsored securitizations include non-JPMorgan originated assets
(b)Commercial and other consists of commercial loans (primarily real estate) and 
non-mortgage consumer receivables purchased from third parties.
The Firm records a loan securitization as a sale when the accounting criteria
for a sale are met.Those criteria are:(1) the transferred assets are legally iso-

lated from the Firm™s creditors;(2) the entity can pledge or exchange the

financial assets or,if the entity is a QSPE,its investors can pledge or exchange

their interests;and (3) the Firm does not maintain effective control via an

agreement to repurchase the transferred assets before their maturity or have

the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return the transferred assets.
For loan securitizations that meet the accounting sales criteria,the gains or

losses recorded depend,in part,on the carrying amount of the loans sold and

are allocated between the loans sold and the retained interests,based upon

their relative fair values at the date of sale.Gains on securitizations are

reported in Noninterest revenue.When quoted market prices for the retained

interests are not available,the Firm estimates the fair value for these retained

interests by determining the present value of future expected cash flows

using modeling techniques.Such models incorporate management™s best esti-

mates of key variables,such as expected credit losses,prepayment speeds and

the discount rates appropriate for the risks involved.
Interests in the securitized loans may be retained by the Firm in the form ofsenior or subordinated interest-only strips,senior and subordinated tranches,

and escrow accounts.The classification of retained interests is dependent

upon several factors,including the type of interest (e.g.,whether the retained

interest is represented by a security certificate) and when it was retained,due

to the adoption of SFAS 155.The Firm has elected to fair value all interests in

securitized loans retained after December 31,2005,that have an embedded

derivative required to be bifurcated under SFAS 155;these retained interests

are classified primarily as Trading assets.Retained interests from wholesale

activities are classified as Trading assets.For consumer activities,senior and

subordinated retained interests represented by a security certificate are classi-

fied as AFS.Retained interests not represented by a security certificate are

classified in Other assets.For those retained interests that are subject to pre-

payment risk (such that JPMorgan Chase may not recover substantially all of
its investment) but are not required to be bifurcated under SFAS 155,the

retained interests are recorded at fair value;subsequent adjustments are

reflected in earnings or in Other comprehensive income (loss).Retained inter-

ests classified as AFS are subject to the impairment provisions of EITF 99-20.
Credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum undi-vided interest in the trusts,representing the Firm™s interests in the receivables

transferred to the trust that have not been securitized.These seller™s interests

are not represented by security certificates.The Firm™s undivided interests are

carried at historical cost and are classified in Loans.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
115Consumer activitiesWholesale activities
Year ended December 31,2006
ResidentialResidentialCommercial 
(in millions,except rates and where otherwise noted)Credit cardAutomobilemortgagemortgageand other
Principal securitized $9,735$2,405$16,803$30,810$13,858
Pretax gains (losses)67Š85161129
Cash flow information:
Proceeds from securitizations$9,735$1,745$16,754$31,048$14,248
Servicing fees collected88318Š1
Other cash flows received
401ŠŠ3595 
Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizations151,186ŠŠŠŠ
Key assumptions (rates per annum):
Prepayment rate
(a)20.0Œ22.2% 1.4-1.5%18.2Œ24.6%10.0Œ45.0%0.0Œ36.2%
PPRABSCPRCPRCPR
Weighted-average life (in years)
0.41.4Œ1.93.0Œ3.61.5Œ4.01.5Œ6.1
Expected credit losses(b)3.3Œ4.2%0.3Œ0.7%Š%0.1Œ3.3%0.0Œ0.9%
Discount rate
12.0%7.6Œ7.8%8.4Œ12.7%15.1Œ26.2%3.8Œ14.0%
Consumer activitiesWholesale activities
Year ended December 31,2005ResidentialResidentialCommercial 
(in millions,except rates and where otherwise noted)Credit cardAutomobilemortgagemortgageand other
Principal securitized $15,145$3,762$18,125$11,399$11,292
Pretax gains (losses)1019
(c)21(3)134
Cash flow information:
Proceeds from securitizations$14,844$2,622$18,093$11,494$11,398

Servicing fees collected94417ŠŠ

Other cash flows received298ŠŠŠ3 

Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizations129,696ŠŠŠŠ
Key assumptions (rates per annum):
Prepayment rate
(a)16.7Œ20.0% 1.5%9.1Œ12.1%22.0Œ43.0%0.0Œ50.0%
PPRABSCPRCPRCPR
Weighted-average life (in years)0.4Œ0.51.4Œ1.55.6Œ6.71.4Œ2.61.0Œ4.4
Expected credit losses(b)4.7Œ5.7%0.6Œ0.7%Š%0.6Œ2.0%Š%
Discount rate12.0%6.3Œ7.3%13.0Œ13.3%16.0Œ18.5%0.6Œ0.9%
Consumer activitiesYear ended December 31,2004
(d)Residential(in millions,except rates and where otherwise noted)Credit cardAutomobilemortgageWholesale activities
(e)Principal securitized $8,850$1,600$6,529$8,756
Pretax gains (losses)52(3)47135

Cash flow information:
Proceeds from securitizations$8,850$1,597$6,608$8,430

Servicing fees collected691123

Other cash flows received225Š2516 

Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizations110,697ŠŠŠ
Key assumptions (rates per annum):
Prepayment rate
(a)15.5Œ16.7% 1.5%23.8Œ37.6%17.0Œ50.0%
PPRABSCPRCPR
Weighted-average life (in years)0.5Œ0.61.81.9Œ3.02.0Œ4.0
Expected credit losses(b)5.5Œ5.8%0.6%1.0Œ2.3%0.0Œ3.0%
Discount rate12.0%4.1%15.0Œ30.0%0.6Œ5.0%
(a) CPR:constant prepayment rate;PPR:principal payment rate;ABS:absolute prepayment speed.
(b)Expected credit losses for prime residential mortgage and certain wholesale securitizations are minimal and are incorporated
 into other assumptions.
(c)The auto securitization gain of $9 million does not include the write-down of loans transferred to held-for-sale in 2005 and
 risk management activities intended to protect the economic value of the
loans while held-for-sale.
(d)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

(e)Delineation between Residential mortgage and Commercial and other is not available for 2004.
2006,2005 and 2004 Securitization activity
The following table summarizes new securitization transactions that were

completed during 2006,2005 and 2004;the resulting gains arising from
such securitizations;certain cash flows received from such securitizations;and

the key economic assumptions used in measuring the retained interests,as of

the dates of such sales:Consumer activitiesWholesale activities
December 31,2006
ResidentialResidentialCommercial 
(in millions,except rates and where otherwise noted)Credit card Automobilemortgagemortgageand other
Weighted-average life (in years)
0.4Œ0.51.10.2-3.41.9Œ2.5 0.2Œ5.9
Prepayment rate
17.5Œ20.4% 1.4%19.3-41.8%10.0Œ42.9%0.0Œ50.0%
(c)PPRABSCPRCPRCPR
Impact of 10% adverse change$(52)$(1)$(4)$(44)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(104)(3)(7)(62)(2)
Loss assumption3.5Œ4.1%0.7%0.0-5.1%
(a)0.1Œ2.2%0.0Œ1.3%
Impact of 10% adverse change$(87)$(4)$(4)$(45)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(175)(7)(8)(89)(1)
Discount rate
12.0%7.6%8.4Œ30.0%
(b)16.0-20.0%0.5Œ14.0%
Impact of 10% adverse change$(2)$(1)$(3)$(25)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(3)(2)(7)(48)(2)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
116JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
At both December 31,2006 and 2005,the Firm had,with respect to its
credit card master trusts,$19.3 billion and $24.8 billion,respectively,relat-

ed to undivided interests,and $2.5 billion and $2.2 billion,respectively,

related to subordinated interests in accrued interest and fees on the securi-

tized receivables,net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.Credit card

securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided

interest of 4% to 12% of the principal receivables in the trusts.The Firm

maintained an average undivided interest in principal receivables in the

trusts of approximately 21% for 2006 and 23% for 2005.
The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits for
some credit card and automobile securitizations,to cover the unlikely event

of deficiencies in cash flows owed to investors.The amounts available in

such escrow accounts are recorded in Other assets and,as of December 31,

2006,amounted to $153 million and $56 million for credit card and auto-

mobile securitizations,respectively;as of December 31,2005,these

amounts were $754 million and $76 million for credit card and automobile
securitizations,respectively.
JPMorgan Chase retains servicing responsibilities for all originated and forcertain purchased residential mortgage,credit card and automobile loan

securitizations and for certain commercial activity securitizations it sponsors,

and receives servicing fees based upon the securitized loan balance plus cer-
tain ancillary fees.The Firm also retains the right to service the residential

mortgage loans it sells in connection with mortgage-backed securities trans-

actions with the Government National Mortgage Association (ﬁGNMAﬂ),

Federal National Mortgage Association (ﬁFNMAﬂ) and Federal Home Loan

Mortgage Corporation (ﬁFreddie Macﬂ).For a discussion of mortgage servic-

ing rights,see Note 16 on pages 121Œ122 of this Annual report.
In addition to the amounts reported for securitization activity on the previ-ous page,the Firm sold residential mortgage loans totaling $53.7 billion,

$52.5 billion and $65.7 billion during 2006,2005 and 2004,respectively,

primarily as GNMA,FNMA and Freddie Mac mortgage-backed securities;

these sales resulted in pretax gains of $251 million,$293 million and $58

million,respectively.
The table below summarizes other retained securitization interests,which
are primarily subordinated or residual interests,and are carried at fair value

on the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets:
December 31,(in millions)
20062005Consumer activitiesCredit card(a)(b)$833
$808
Automobile(a)(c)168150Residential mortgage(a)155182Wholesale activities(d)Residential mortgages1,032245Commercial and other11720Total$2,305
$1,405
(a)Pretax unrealized gains recorded in Stockholders™ equity that relate to retained securitizationinterests on consumer activities totaled $3 million and $6 million for credit card;$4 million
and $5 million for automobile and $51 million and $60 million for residential mortgage at
December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(b)The credit card retained interest amount noted above includes subordinated securities
retained by the Firm totaling $301 million and $357 million at December 31,2006 and

2005,respectively,that are classified as AFS securities.The securities are valued using 
quoted market prices and therefore are not included in the key economic assumptions and

sensitivities table that follows.
(c)In addition to the automobile retained interest amounts noted above,the Firm also retained
senior securities totaling $188 million and $490 million at December 31,2006 and 2005,

respectively,that are classified as AFS securities.These securities are valued using quoted

market prices and therefore are not included in the key economic assumption and sensitivi-

ties table that follows.
(d)In addition to the wholesale retained interest amounts noted above,the Firm also retained
subordinated securities totaling $23 million and $51 million at December 31,2006 and

2005,respectively,predominately from resecuritizations activities that are classified as 

Trading assets.These securities are valued using quoted market prices and therefore are 

not included in the key assumptions and sensitivities table that follows.
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine
the fair value of the Firm™s retained interests in its securitizations at December

31,2006 and 2005,respectively;and it outlines the sensitivities of those fair

values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions:
Expected static-pool net credit losses include actual incurred losses plus projected net credit losses,divided by the original 
balance of the outstandings comprising thesecuritization pool.The table below displays the expected static-pool net credit losses for 2006,2005 and 2004,based upon secur
itizations occurring in that year:Loans securitized in:(a)200620052004
(c)Residential mortgage(b)AutomobileResidential mortgage
(b)AutomobileResidential mortgageAutomobile
December 31,2006
4.4%0.6%
3.5%0.7%0.0Œ3.1%0.7%
December 31,2005
NANA
3.30.90.0Œ2.40.8
December 31,2004
NANA
NANA0.0Œ3.31.1
(a)Static-pool losses are not applicable to credit card securitizations due to their revolving nature.
(b)Primarily includes subprime residential mortgages securitized in 2006 and 2005 as part of wholesale activities.Expected loss
es for prime residential mortgage securitizations are minimal for con-
sumer activities.
(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
117The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical.Changes in fair
value based upon a 10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot

be extrapolated easily because the relationship of the change in the assump-

tions to the change in fair value may not be linear.Also,in the table,the
effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is

calculated without changing any other assumption.In reality,changes in one

factor may result in changes in another,which might counteract or magnify

the sensitivities.
Consumer activitiesWholesale activities
December 31,2005ResidentialResidentialCommercial 
(in millions,except rates and where otherwise noted)Credit card AutomobileMortgagemortgageand other
Weighted-average life (in years)0.4Œ0.71.2
0.5-3.52.6
0.2Œ4.1Prepayment rate11.9Œ20.8% 
1.5% 20.1-43.7%22.0Œ46.6%0.0Œ50.0%
(c)PPRABSCPRCPRCPR
Impact of 10% adverse change$(44)$Š$(3)$(4)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(88)(2)(5)(4)(2)
Loss assumption3.2Œ8.1%0.7%0.0Œ5.2%
(a)0.6Œ2.0%0.0%
Impact of 10% adverse change$ (77)$(4)$(10)$(6)$Š

Impact of 20% adverse change(153)(9)(19)(11)Š
Discount rate6.9Œ12.0%7.2%12.7-30.0%
(b)16.0Œ18.5%0.2Œ4.7%
Impact of 10% adverse change$(2)$(1)$(4)$(6)$Š
Impact of 20% adverse change(4)(3)(8)(12)Š
(a)  Expected credit losses for prime residential mortgage are minimal and are incorporated into other assumptions.
(b)  The Firm sold certain residual interests from subprime mortgage securitizations via Net Interest Margin (ﬁNIMﬂ) securitiza
tions and retains residual interests in these NIM transactions,which are val-
ued using a 30% discount rate.
(c)  Prepayment risk on certain wholesale retained interests for commercial and other are minimal and are incorporated into oth
er assumptions.
The table below presents information about delinquencies,net charge-offs (recoveries) and components of reported and securitize
d financial assets at December 31,2006
and 2005:Nonaccrual and 90 days orNet loan charge-offs
Total Loansmore past due
(d)(recoveries) Year ended
December 31,(in millions)
200620052006200520062005Home Equity$85,730
$73,866
$454
$422
$143
$141
Mortgage59,66858,9597694425625Auto loans and leases41,00946,081132193238277All other loans27,09718,393322281139129Credit card receivables
85,88171,7381,3441,0912,4883,324Total consumer loans299,385
269,0373,021(e)2,429(e)3,0643,896Total wholesale loans
183,742150,1114201,042(22)(77)Total loans reported 483,127
419,1483,4413,4713,0423,819Securitized consumer loans:Residential mortgage(a)7,9958,06119137057105Automobile 4,8785,43910111515Credit card66,95070,5279627302,2103,776Total consumer loans securitized79,823
84,0271,1631,1112,2823,896Securitized wholesale activitiesResidential mortgage(a)27,2754,787544413ŠCommercial and other13,7564,2626Š3ŠTotal securitized wholesale activities41,031
9,049550416ŠTotal loans securitized
(b)120,85493,0761,7131,1152,2983,896Total loans reported and securitized
(c)$603,981
$512,224
$5,154
$4,586
$5,340
$7,715
(a)Includes $18.6 billion and $11.9 billion of outstanding principal balances on securitized subprime 1Œ4 family residential mo
rtgage loans as of December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(b)Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs were $262.9 billion and $204.2 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respect
ively.The $120.9 billion and $93.1 billion of loans securitized at
December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,excludes:$122.5 billion and $85.6 billion of securitized loans,in which the Firm™s only 
continuing involvement is the servicing of the assets;$19.3 billion
and $24.8 billion of seller™s interests in credit card master trusts;and $0.2 billion and $0.7 billion of escrow accounts and o
ther assets,respectively.
(c)Represents both loans on the Consolidated balance sheets and loans that have been securitized,but excludes loans for which t
he Firm™s only continuing involvement is servicing of the assets.
(d)Includes nonperforming HFS loans of $120 million and $136 million at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.

(e)Excludes nonperforming assets related to (i) loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA pools that
 are insured by U.S.government agencies and U.S.government-sponsored
enterprises of $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion for December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,and (ii) education loans that are 90 da
ys past due and still accruing,which are insured by U.S.government
agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $0.2 billion at December 31,2006.These amounts for GNMA and educati
on loans are excluded,as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
118JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 15 ŒVariable interest entities
Refer to Note 1 on page 94 of this Annual Report for a further description of
JPMorgan Chase™s policies regarding consolidation of variable interest entities.
JPMorgan Chase™s principal involvement with VIEs occurs in the following

business segments:Investment Bank:Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in accessing the financial
markets in a cost-efficient manner by providing flexibility relating to price,

yield and desired risk.There are two broad categories of transactions

involving VIEs in the IB:(1) multi-seller conduits and (2) client intermedia-

tion;both are discussed below.The IB also securitizes loans through

QSPEs,to create asset-backed securities,as further discussed in Note 14

on pages 114Œ118 of this Annual Report.
Asset Management (ﬁAMﬂ):Provides investment management services to
a limited number of the Firm™s mutual funds deemed VIEs.AM earns a

fixed fee based upon assets managed;the fee varies with each fund™s

investment objective and is competitively priced.For the limited number of

funds that qualify as VIEs,AM™s relationships with such funds are not con-

sidered significant variable interests under FIN 46R.
Treasury & Securities Services:Provides services to a number of VIEs.These
services are similar to those provided to non-VIEs.TSS earns market-based
fees for services provided.Such relationships are not considered significant
variable interests under FIN 46R.
Commercial Banking:Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in accessing the financial
markets in a cost-efficient manner.This is often accomplished through the

use of products similar to those offered in the Investment Bank.
Commercial Banking may assist in the structuring and/or on-going admin-
istration of these VIEs and may provide liquidity,letters of credit and/or

derivative instruments in support of the VIE.Such relationships are not

considered significant variable interests under FIN 46R.
The Private Equity business,included in Corporate,may be involved with
entities that could be deemed VIEs.Private equity activities are accounted

for in accordance with the Investment Company Audit Guide (ﬁAudit

Guideﬂ).The FASB deferred adoption of FIN 46R for nonregistered invest-

mentcompanies that apply the Audit Guide until the proposed Statement

of Position on the clarification of the scope of the Audit Guide is finalized.

The Firm continues to apply this deferral provision;had FIN 46R been

applied to VIEs subject to this deferral,the impact would have had an

insignificant impact on the Firm™s Consolidated financial statements as of

December 31,2006.
As noted above,there are two broad categories of transactions involving VIEs
with which the IB is involved:multi-seller conduits and client intermediation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
119The Firm also provides vehicles with program-wide liquidity,in the form of
revolving and short-term lending commitments,in the event of short-term dis-

ruptions in the commercial paper market.
Deal-specific credit enhancement that supports the commercial paper issuedby the conduits is generally structured to cover a multiple of historical losses

expected on the pool of assets and is provided primarily by customers (i.e.,

sellers) or other third parties.The deal-specific credit enhancement is typically

in the form of overcollateralization provided by the seller but also may include

any combination of the following:recourse to the seller or originator,cash

collateral accounts,letters of credit,excess spread,retention of subordinated

interests or third-party guarantees.In certain instances,the Firm 

provides limited credit enhancement in the form of standby letters of credit.In June 2006,the Firm restructured four multi-seller conduits that it adminis-
ters:each conduit issued a capital note that was acquired by an independent

third-party investor who absorbs the majority of the expected losses of the
respective conduit whose note it had purchased.In determining the primary

beneficiary of the conduits,the Firm used a Monte CarloŒbased model to size

the expected losses and considered the relative rights and obligations of each
of the variable interest holders.As a result of the restructuring,the Firm

deconsolidated approximately $33 billion of assets and liabilities as of June

30,2006.The following 
table summarizes the Firm™s involvement with Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits:Multi-seller conduits The Firm is an active participant in the asset-backed securities business,helping

meet customers™ financing needs by providing access to the commercial paper
markets through VIEs known as multi-seller conduits.These companies are sep-

aratebankruptcy-remote companies in the business of purchasing interests in,

and making loans secured by,receivable pools and other financial assets pur-

suant to agreements with customers.The companies fund their purchases and

loans through the issuance of highly rated commercial paper.The primary

source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flow from the pools
of assets.
JPMorgan Chase serves as the administrator and provides contingent liquidity
support and limited credit enhancement for several multi-seller conduits.The

commercial paper issued by the conduits is backed by collateral,credit enhance-

ments and commitments to provide liquidity sufficient to enable the conduit
to receive a liquidity rating of at least A-1,P-1 and,in certain cases,F1.
As a means of ensuring timely repayment of the commercial paper,each asset
pool financed by the conduits has a minimum 100% deal-specific liquidity
facility associated with it.The liquidity facilities are typically in the form of

asset purchase agreements and are generally structured such that the liquidity

is provided by the Firm purchasing,or lending against,a pool of nondefaulted,

performing assets.Deal-specific liquidity facilities are the primary source of

liquidity support for the conduits.
ConsolidatedNonconsolidated
Total
December 31,(in billions)
200620052006200520062005Total commercial paper issued by conduits$3.4
$35.2
$44.1
$8.9
$47.5
$44.1
Commitments
Asset-purchase agreements$0.5
$47.9
$66.0
$14.3
$66.5
$62.2
Program-wide liquidity commitments
1.05.04.01.05.06.0Program-wide limited credit enhancements
Š1.31.61.01.62.3Maximum exposure to loss
(a)1.048.467.014.868.063.2(a) The Firm™s maximum exposure to loss is limited to the amount of drawn commitments (i.e.,sellers™ assets held by the multi-s
eller conduits for which the Firm provides liquidity support) of $43.9 billion and $41.6 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,plus contractual but undrawn commitments of $24.1 billion a
nd $21.6 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
Certain of the Firm™s administered multi-seller conduits were deconsolidated as of June 30,2006;the assets deconsolidated were 
approximately $33 billion.Since the Firm provides credit enhance-
ment and liquidity to Firm administered multi-seller conduits,the maximum exposure is not adjusted to exclude exposure that wou
ld be absorbed by third-party liquidity providers.
The Firm views its credit exposure to multi-seller conduit transactions as 
limited.This is because,for the most part,the Firm is not required to fund

under the liquidity facilities if the assets in the VIE are in default.Additionally,

the Firm™s obligations under the letters of credit are secondary to the risk of

first loss provided by the customer or other third parties Œ for example,by the

overcollateralization of the VIE with the assets sold to it or notes subordinat-

ed to the Firm™s liquidity facilities.
Client intermediation
As a financial intermediary,the Firm is involved in structuring VIE transactions

to meet investor and client needs.The Firm intermediates various types of

risks (including fixed income,equity and credit),typically using derivative

instruments as further discussed below.In certain circumstances,the Firm 

also provides liquidity and other support to the VIEs to facilitate the transaction.

The Firm™s current exposure to nonconsolidated VIEs is reflected in its

Consolidated balance sheets or in the Notes to consolidated financial state-
ments.The risks inherent in derivative instruments or liquidity commitments

are managed similarly to other credit,market and liquidity risks to which the

Firm is exposed.The Firm intermediates principally with the following types of

VIEs:credit-linked note vehicles and municipal bond vehicles.
120JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The Firm structures credit-linked notes in which the VIE purchases highly rated
assets (such as asset-backed securities) and enters into a credit derivativecon-

tract with the Firm to obtain exposure to a referenced credit not held by the

VIE.Credit-linked notes are issued by the VIE to transfer the risk of the refer-

enced credit to the investors in the VIE.Clients and investors often prefer a

VIE structure,since the credit-linked notes generally carry a higher credit rat-

ing than they would if issued directly by JPMorgan Chase.
The Firm is involved with municipal bond vehicles for the purpose of creating
a series of secondary market trusts that allow tax-exempt investors to finance

their investments at short-term tax-exempt rates.The VIE purchases fixed-rate,

longer-term highly rated municipal bonds by issuing puttable floating-rate

certificates and inverse floating-rate certificates;the investors that purchase

the inverse floating-rate certificates are exposed to the residual losses of the

VIE (the ﬁresidual interestsﬂ).For vehicles 
in which the Firm owns the residualinterests,the 
Firm consolidates the VIE.In vehicles in which third-party
investors own the residual interests,the Firm™s exposure is limited because of

the high credit quality of the underlying municipal bonds,the unwind triggers

based upon the market value of the underlying collateral and the residual

interests held by third parties.The Firm often serves as remarketing agent for

the VIE and provides liquidity to support the remarketing.
Assets held by credit-linked and municipal bond vehicles at December 31,
2006 and 2005,were as follows:
December 31,(in billions)
20062005Credit-linked note vehicles
(a)$20.2
$13.5
Municipal bond vehicles(b)16.913.7(a)Assets of $1.8 billion reported in the table above were recorded on the Firm™s Consolidated
balance sheets at December 31,2006 and 2005,due to contractual relationships held by

the Firm that relate to collateral held by the VIE.
(b)Total amounts consolidated due to the Firm owning residual interests were $4.7 billion and
$4.9 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,and are reported in the table.

Total liquidity commitments were $10.2 billion and $5.8 billion at December 31,2006 and

2005,respectively.The Firm™s maximum credit exposure to all municipal bond vehicles was

$14.9 billion and $10.7 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
The Firm may enter into transactions with VIEs structured by other 
parties.These transactions can include,for example,acting as a derivative

counterparty,liquidity provider,investor,underwriter,placement agent,trustee

or custodian.These transactions are conducted at arm™s length,and individual

credit decisions are based upon the analysis of the specific VIE,taking into con-

sideration the quality of the underlying assets.Where these activities do not

cause JPMorgan Chase to absorb a majority of the expected losses of the VIEs

or to receive a majority of the residual returns of the VIE,JPMorgan Chase

records and reports these positions similarly to any other third-party transac-

tion.These transactions are not considered significant for disclosure purposes.
Consolidated VIE assets

The following table summarizes the Firm™s total consolidated VIE assets,by

classification,on the Consolidated balance sheets,as of December 31,2006

and 2005:December 31,(in billions)
2006(d)2005Consolidated VIE assets
(a)Securities purchased under resale agreements(b)$8.0
$2.6
Trading assets
(c)9.89.3Investment securities 0.21.9Interests in purchased receivables
Š29.6Loans(b)15.98.1Other assets2.90.4Total consolidated assets$36.8
$51.9
(a) The Firm also holds $3.5 billion and $3.9 billion of assets,at December 31,2006 and
2005,respectively,primarily as a seller™s interest,in certain consumer securitizations in a

segregated entity,as part of a two-step securitization transaction.This interest is included

in the securitization activities disclosed in Note 14 on pages 114Œ118 of this Annual

Report.(b)Includes activity conducted by the Firm in a principal capacity,primarily in the IB.

(c)Includes the fair value of securities and derivative receivables.

(d) Certain multi-seller conduits administered by the Firm were deconsolidated as of June 30,
2006;the assets deconsolidated consisted of $29 billion of Interests in purchased receiv-

ables,$3 billion of Loans and $1 billion of investment securities.
Interests in purchased receivables included interests in receivables purchased
by Firm-administered conduits,which had been consolidated in accordance

with FIN 46R.Interests in purchased receivables were carried at cost and

reviewed to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment existed.
The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs
are classified in the line item titled,ﬁBeneficial interests issued by consolidated

variable interest entitiesﬂon the Consolidated balance sheets.The holders 

of these beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of

JPMorgan Chase.See Note 19 on page 124 of this Annual Report for the

maturity profile of FIN 46 long-term beneficial interests.
FIN 46(R)-6 Transition
In April 2006,the FASB issued FSP FIN 46(R)-6,which requires an analysis of

the design of a VIE in determining the variability to be considered in the

application of FIN 46(R).The Firm adopted the guidance in FSP FIN 46(R)-6

prospectively on July 1,2006.The adoption of FSP FIN 46(R)-6 did not signifi-

cantly change the way in which the Firm evaluated its interests in VIEs under

FIN 46(R);thus,it had an immaterial impact on the Firm™s consolidated finan-

cial statements.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
121Note 16 ŒGoodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill is not amortized.It is instead tested for impairment in accordance with
SFAS 142 at the reporting-unit segment,which is generally one level below the

six major reportable business segments (as described in Note 33 on pages
139Œ141 of this Annual Report);plus Private Equity (which is included in

Corporate).Goodwill is tested annually (during the fourth quarter) or more often

if events or circumstances,such as adverse changes in the business climate,

indicate there may be impairment.Intangible 
assets determined to have indefi-nite lives are not amortized but instead are tested for impairmentat least annu-
ally,or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the

asset might be impaired.The impairment test compares the fair value of the

indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount.Other acquired intangi-

ble assets determined to have 
finite lives,such as 
core deposits and credit cardrelationships,are amortized over their estimated 
usefullives in a manner thatbest reflects the economic benefits of the intangible asset.In addition,impair-

ment testing is performed periodically on these amortizing intangible assets.
Goodwill and other intangible assets consist of the following:December 31,(in millions)
20062005Goodwill$45,186
$43,621
Mortgage servicing rights7,5466,452Purchased credit card relationships2,9353,275All other intangibles:Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles
$302
$124
Core deposit intangibles2,6232,705Other intangibles1,4462,003Total All other intangible assets$4,371
$4,832
GoodwillAs of December 31,2006,Goodwill increased by $1.6 billion compared with

December 31,2005.The increase is due principally to the $1.8 billion of

goodwill resulting from the acquisition of the consumer,business banking and

middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York,as well as $510

million of goodwill resulting from the acquisition of Collegiate Funding
Services.The increase from acquisitions was offset partially by a reduction to

Goodwill:of $402 million due to the sale of selected corporate trust business-

es to The Bank of New York;resulting from purchase accounting adjustments

related to the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business;of $111

million due to the sale of the insurance business;and of $70 million related

to reclassifying net assets of a subsidiary as held-for-sale.
Goodwill attributed to the business segments was as follows:
December 31,(in millions)
20062005Investment Bank$3,526
$3,531
Retail Financial Services16,95514,991Card Services12,71212,984Commercial Banking2,9012,651Treasury & Securities Services
1,6052,062Asset Management7,1107,025Corporate (Private Equity)
377377Total Goodwill$45,186
$43,621
Mortgage servicing rights JPMorgan Chase recognizes as intangible assets mortgage servicing rights,
which represent the right to perform specified residential mortgage servicing
activities for others.MSRs are either purchased from third parties or retained

upon sale or securitization of mortgage loans.Servicing activities include col-

lecting principal,interest,and escrow payments from borrowers;making tax

and insurance payments on behalf of the borrowers;monitoring delinquencies

and executing foreclosure proceedings;and accounting for and remitting prin-

cipal and interest payments to the investors of the mortgage-backed securities.
The amount initially capitalized as MSRs represents the amount paid to third
parties to acquire MSRs or is the estimate of fair value,if retained upon the

sale or securitization of mortgage loans.The Firm estimates the fair value of

MSRs for initial capitalization and ongoing valuation using an option-adjusted

spread (ﬁOASﬂ) model,which projects MSR cash flows over multiple interest

rate scenarios in conjunction with the Firm™s proprietary prepayment model,

and then discounts these cash flows at risk-adjusted rates.The model consid-

ers portfolio characteristics,contractually specified servicing fees,prepayment

assumptions,delinquency rates,late charges,other ancillary revenues,and

costs to service,and other economic factors.The Firm compares fair value esti-

mates and assumptions to observable market data where available and to

recent market activity and actual portfolio experience.
The fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates,including their
effect on prepayment speeds.JPMorgan Chase uses or has used combinations

of derivatives,AFS securities and trading instruments to manage changes in

the fair value of MSRs.The intent is to offset any changes in the fair value of

MSRs with changes in the fair value of the related risk management instru-

ments.MSRs decrease in value when interest rates decline.Conversely,securi-

ties (such as mortgage-backed securities),principal-only certificates and cer-

tain derivatives (when the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments) increase

in value when interest rates decline.
In March 2006,the FASB issued SFAS 156,which permits an entity a one-

time irrevocable election to adopt fair value accounting for a class of servicing

assets.JPMorgan Chase elected to adopt the standard effective January 1,

2006,and defined MSRs as one class of servicing assets for this election.

At the transition date,the fair value of the MSRs exceeded their carrying

amount,net of any related valuation allowance,by $150 million net of taxes.

This amount was recorded as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained

earnings as of January 1,2006.MSRs are recognized in the Consolidated 

balance sheet at fair value,and changes in their fair value are recorded in

current-period earnings.During 2006,as in prior years,revenue amounts

related to MSRs and the financial instruments used to manage the risk of
MSRs are recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
For the years ended December 31,2005 and 2004,MSRs were accounted for

under SFAS 140,using a lower of cost or fair value approach.Under this

approach,MSRs were amortized as a reduction of the actual servicing income

received in proportion to,and over the period of,the estimated future net

servicing income stream of the underlying mortgage loans.For purposes of

evaluating and measuring impairment of MSRs,the Firm stratified the portfolio

on the basis of the predominant risk characteristics,which are loan type and

interest rate.Any indicated impairment was recognized as a reduction in rev-

enue through a valuation allowance,which represented the extent to which

the carrying value of an individual stratum exceeded its estimated fair value.

Any gross carrying value and related valuation allowance amounts which were

not expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future,based upon the inter-

est rate scenario,were considered to be other-than-temporary.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
122JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 156,the Firm designated certain derivatives
used to risk manage MSRs (e.g.,a combination of swaps,swaptions and

floors) as SFAS 133 fair value hedges of benchmark interest rate risk.SFAS

133 hedge accounting allowed the carrying value of the hedged MSRs to be

adjusted through earnings in the same period that the change in value of the

hedging derivatives was recognized through earnings.The designated hedge

period was daily.In designating the benchmark interest rate,the Firm consid-

ered the impact that the change in the benchmark rate had on the prepay-

ment speed estimates in determining the fair value of the MSRs.Hedge effec-

tiveness was assessed using a regression analysis of the change in fair value

of the MSRs as a result of changes in benchmark interest rates and of the

change in the fair value of the designated derivatives.The valuation adjust-

ments to both the MSRs and SFAS 133 derivatives were recorded in Mortgage

fees and related income.With the election to apply fair value accounting to

the MSRs under SFAS 156,SFAS 133 hedge accounting is no longer necessary.

For a further discussion on derivative instruments and hedging activities,see

Note 28 on pages 131Œ132 of this Annual Report.
The following table summarizes MSR activity,certain key assumptions,and the
sensitivity of the fair value of MSRs to adverse changes in those key assump-

tions for the year ended December 31,2006,during which MSRs were

accounted for under SFAS 156.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except rates and where otherwise noted)
2006Balance at beginning of period after valuation allowance
$6,452
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle230Fair value at beginning of period6,682
Originations of MSRs1,512Purchase of MSRs627Total additions2,139
SalesŠChange in valuation due to inputs and assumptions
(a)165Other changes in fair value
(b)(1,440)Fair value at December 31$7,546
Weighted-average prepayment speed assumption (CPR)
17.02%Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change
$(381)
Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change
(726)Weighted-average discount rate 
9.32%Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change
$(254)
Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change
(491)Contractual service fees,late fees and other ancillary fees
included in Mortgage fees and related income
$2,038
Third-party Mortgage loans serviced at December 31 (in billions)
$527
CPR:Constant prepayment rate.
(a)Represents MSR asset fair value adjustments due to changes in inputs,such as interest
rates and volatility,as well as updates to assumptions used in the valuation model.
(b)Includes changes in the MSR value due to servicing portfolio runoff (or time decay).
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and should be
used with caution.Changes in fair value based upon a 10% and 20% varia-

tion in assumptions generally cannot be easily extrapolated because the rela-

tionship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not

be linear.Also,in this table,the effect that a change in a particular assump-

tion may have on the fair value is calculated without changing any other

assumption.In reality,changes in one factor may result in changes in another,

which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
The following table summarizes MSR activity for the years ended December
31,2005 and 2004,during which MSRs were accounted for under SFAS 140.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except rates and where otherwise noted)2005
(c)2004(d)Balance at January 1$6,111$6,159
Originations of MSRs1,3011,089
Purchase of MSRs596668
Total additions
1,8971,757
Bank One mergerNA90
SalesŠ(3)

Other-than-temporary impairment(1)(149)

Amortization(1,295)(1,297)
SFAS 133 hedge valuation adjustments90(446)
Balance at December 316,8026,111
Less:valuation allowance
(a)3501,031
Balance at December 31,after valuation allowance
$6,452$5,080
Estimated fair value at December 31$6,682$5,124
Weighted-average prepayment speed assumption (CPR)17.56%17.29%
Weighted-average discount rate9.68%7.93%
Valuation allowance at January 1$1,031$1,378
Other-than-temporary impairment
(b)(1)(149)
SFAS 140 impairment (recovery) adjustment(680)(198)
Valuation allowance at December 31
$350$1,031
Contractual service fees,late fees and other ancillary 
fees included in Mortgage fees and related income$1,769$1,721
Third-party Mortgage loans serviced 
at December 31 (in billions)$468$431
(a)The valuation allowance in the preceding table at December 31,2005 and 2004,represent-
ed the extent to which the carrying value of MSRs exceeded the estimated fair value for its

applicable SFAS 140 strata.Changes in the valuation allowance were the result of the

recognition of impairment or the recovery of previously recognized impairment charges due
to changes in market conditions during the period.
(b)The Firm recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of its MSRs of $1 million and $149
million in 2005 and 2004,respectively,which permanently reduced the gross carrying value

of the MSRs and the related valuation allowance.The permanent reduction precluded sub-

sequent reversals.This write-down had no impact on the results of operations or financial

condition of the Firm.(c)During the fourth quarter of 2005,the Firm began valuing MSRs using an option-adjusted
spread (ﬁOASﬂ) valuation model.Prior to the fourth quarter of 2005,MSRs were valued

using cash flows and discount rates determined by a ﬁstaticﬂor single interest rate path

valuation model.
(d)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
CPR:Constant prepayment rate
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
123Note 17 ŒPremises and equipment
Premises and equipment,including leasehold improvements,are carried at cost
less accumulated depreciation and amortization.JPMorgan Chase computes

depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of an

asset.For leasehold improvements,the Firm uses the straight-line method

computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or 10
years.JPMorgan Chase has recorded immaterial asset retirement obligations

related to asbestos remediation under SFAS 143 and FIN 47 in those cases

where it has sufficient information to estimate the obligations™ fair value.
The components of credit card relationships,core deposits and other intangible assets were as follows:
20062005NetNet
GrossAccumulatedcarryingGrossAccumulatedcarrying
December 31,(in millions)amountamortizationvalueamountamortizationvalue
Purchased credit card relationships$5,716$2,781$2,935
$5,325$2,050$3,275
All other intangibles:Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles
36765302
18359124
Core deposit intangibles4,2831,6602,623
3,7971,0922,705
Other intangibles(a)1,961515
(b)1,4462,582579
(b)2,003(a)Amounts at December 31,2006,exclude,and amounts at December 31,2005,include,other intangibles and related accumulated amorti
zation of selected corporate trust businesses related to the
transaction with The Bank of New York.
(b)Includes $11 million and $14 million of amortization expense related to servicing assets on securitized automobile loans for
 the years ended December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
Amortization expenseThe following table presents amortization expense related to credit card relationships,core deposits and All other intangible a
ssets.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(b)Purchased credit card relationships$731
$703$476
All other intangibles:Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles
63623
Core deposit intangibles568623330
Other intangibles(a)12312882
Total amortization expense$1,428
$1,490$911
(a)  Amortization expense related to the aforementioned selected corporate trust businesses were reported in Income from discon
tinued operations for all periods presented.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
Future amortization expense
The following table presents estimated future amortization expense related to credit card relationships,core deposits and All o
ther intangible assets at December 31,2006:Other credit 
Purchased creditcard-relatedCore depositAll other
Year ended December 31,(in millions)card relationshipsintangiblesintangiblesintangible assets
Total
2007$700$10$555$109$1,374
2008580174791001,176

20094282339792940

20103583033681805
20112893529373690
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisition ordevelopment of internal-use software under SOP 98-1.Once the software is

ready for its intended use,these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis

over the software™s expected useful life,and reviewed for impairment on an

ongoing basis.
Purchased credit card relationships and All other intangible assets

During 2006,Purchased credit card relationship intangibles decreased by

$340 million as a result of $731 million in amortization expense,partially

offset by increases from various acquisitions of private-label portfolios and

purchase accounting adjustments related to the November 2005 acquisition
of the Sears Canada credit card business.During 2006,all other intangible

assets declined $461 million,primarily as a result of amortization expense

and a reduction of $436 million related to the transfer of selected corporate

trust businesses to The Bank of New York,partially offset by an increase in
core deposit intangibles of $485 million resulting from the acquisition of The

Bank of New York's consumer,business banking and middle-market banking

businesses,and further purchase accounting adjustments related to the

acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business.Except for $513 million

of indefinite-lived intangibles related to asset management advisory con-
tracts that are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least

annually,the remainder of the Firm™s other acquired intangible assets are

subject to amortization.NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
124JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 19 ŒLong-term debt
JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies,although predominantly U.S.dollars,with both fixed and v
ariable interest rates.
The following table is a summary of long-term debt carrying values (including unamortized original issue discount,SFAS 133 valu
ation adjustments and fair value
adjustments,where applicable) by contractual maturity for the current year.
2006By remaining maturity at December 31,2006 UnderAfter2005
(in millions,except rates)1 year1Œ5 years5 years
Total
Total
Parent company
Senior debt:(a)Fixed rate
$5,468$12,162$2,686$20,316
$24,920
Variable rate
3,29922,5062,45928,264
16,914Interest rates
(b)4.13Œ5.50%0.75Œ12.48%1.25Œ10.37%0.75Œ12.48%
0.22Œ8.85%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
$1,858$9,145$15,009$26,012
$24,817
Variable rate
Š241,9651,989
1,823Interest rates
(b)6.70Œ7.60%1.60Œ10.00%1.92Œ9.88%1.60Œ10.00%
1.92Œ10.00%Subtotal$10,625$43,837$22,119$76,581
$68,474
SubsidiariesSenior debt:(a)Fixed rate
$2,159$4,080$4,210$10,449
$6,744
Variable rate
15,48820,4595,26941,216
32,009Interest rates
(b)3.59Œ5.57%2.43Œ17.00%1.76Œ9.00%1.76Œ17.00%
1.71Œ17.00%
Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
$Š$828$3,197$4,025
$1,130
Variable rate
ŠŠ1,1501,150
ŠInterest rates
(b)Š%6.13Œ6.70%4.38Œ8.25%4.38Œ8.25%
6.13Œ8.25%Subtotal$17,647$25,367$13,826$56,840
$39,883
Total long-term debt$28,272$69,204$35,945$133,421
(d)(e)(f)(g)$108,357
FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests:
(c)Fixed rate
$7$347$423$777
$465
Variable rate
631297,3677,559
1,889Interest rates
(b)5.85Œ7.12%1.73Œ8.75%3.26Œ12.79%1.73Œ12.79%
0.51Œ12.79%
Total FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests$70$476$7,790$8,336
$2,354
(a)Included are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments.Embedded derivatives separated from hybrid securities in acc
ordance with SFAS 133 are reported at fair value and shown net 
with the host contract on the Consolidated balance sheets.Changes in fair value of separated derivatives are recorded in Princi
pal transactions revenue.Hybrid securities which the Firm has elected
to measure at fair value in accordance with SFAS 155 are classified in the line item of the host contract on the Consolidated b
alance sheets;changes in fair values are recorded in Principal transac-
tions revenue in the Consolidated statements of income.
(b)The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year end,including non-U.S.dollar-fixed- and variab
le-rate issuances,which excludes the effects of the associated derivative 
instruments used in SFAS 133 hedge accounting relationships if applicable.The use of these derivative instruments modifies the 
Firm™s exposure to the contractual interest rates disclosed in the table
above.Including the effects of the SFAS 133 hedge accounting derivatives,the range of modified rates in effect at December 31,2
006,for total long-term debt was 0.11% to 17.00%,versus the
contractual range of 0.75% to 17.00% presented in the table above.
(c)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.

(d)At December 31,2006,long-term debt aggregating $27.3 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase,in whole or in p
art,prior to maturity,based upon the terms specified 
in the respective notes.
(e)The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2006 is $28.3 billion in 2007,$22.9
 billion in 2008,$18.1 billion in 2009,$10.6 billion in 2010 and $17.6 billion in 2011.
(f) Includes $3.0 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31,2006.The aggregate principal amount of these notes at
 their respective maturities was $6.8 billion.
(g) Includes $25.4 billion of outstanding structured notes accounted for at fair value under SFAS 155.
Note 18 Œ Deposits At December 31,2006 and 2005,time deposits in denominations of
$100,000 or more were as follows:December 31,(in millions)
20062005U.S.
$ 110,812$ 80,861Non-U.S.
51,13834,912Total $ 161,950
$ 115,773At December 31,2006,the maturities of time deposits were as follows:
December 31,2006 (in 
millions)U.S.Non-U.S.
Total
2007$132,313$62,874$195,187
20082,6927693,461

20091,2006531,853

20106176051,222

20116214861,107
After 5 years7357841,519
Total 
$138,178$66,171$204,349
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
125Note 20 ŒPreferred stock
JPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 200 million shares of preferredstock,in one or more series,with a par value of $1 per share.There was no

outstanding preferred stock at December 31,2006.Outstanding preferred
stock at December 31,2005,was 280,433 shares.On March 31,2006,
JPMorgan Chase redeemed all 280,433 shares of its 6.63% Series H cumu-
lative preferred stock.Dividends on shares of the Series H preferred stockwere payable quarterly.
The weighted-average contractual interest rate for total Long-term debt was
4.89% and 4.62% as of December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.In order

to modify exposure to interest rate and currency exchange rate movements,

JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instruments,primarily interest rate and

cross-currency interest rate swaps,in conjunction with some of its debt issues.

The use of these instruments modifies the Firm™s interest expense on the asso-
ciated debt.The modified weighted-average interest rate for total long-term

debt,including the effects of related derivative instruments,was 4.99% and

4.65% as of December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(Parent Company) has guaranteed certain debt of its 
subsidiaries,including both long-term debt and structured notes sold as part of the
Firm™s trading activities.These guarantees rank on a parity with all of the Firm™s
other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.Guaranteed liabilities totaled
$30 million and $170 million at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts

that issued guaranteed capital debt securities 

At December 31,2006,the Firm had established 22 wholly owned Delaware

statutory business trusts (ﬁissuer trustsﬂ) that had issued guaranteed capital

debt securities.
The junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the Firm to
the issuer trusts,totaling $12.2 billion and $11.5 billion at December 31,

2006 and 2005,respectively,were reflected in the Firm™s Consolidated bal-

ance sheets in the Liabilities section under the caption ﬁJunior subordinated

deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital

debt securitiesﬂ(i.e.,trust preferred capital debt securities).The Firm also

records the common capital securities issued by the issuer trusts in Other
assets in its Consolidated balance sheets at December 31,2006 and 2005.
The debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the Firm,less the common capital securities of the issuer trusts,qualify as Tier 
1 capital.The following is a summary of the
outstandingcapital debt securities,including unamortized original issue discount,issued by each trust and the junior subordinat
ed deferrable interest debenture issued
by JPMorgan Chase to each trust as of December 31,2006:
Amount ofPrincipalStated maturity
capital debtamount ofof capital
securitiesdebenturesecuritiesEarliestInterest rate ofInterest
issuedissuedIssueandredemptioncapital securitiespayment/
December 31,2006 (in millions)by trust
(a)to trust(b)datedebenturesdateand debenturesdistribution dates
Bank One Capital III$474$62320002030Any time8.75%Semiannually
Bank One Capital VI52555520012031Any time7.20%Quarterly

Chase Capital II495511199720272007LIBOR + 0.50%Quarterly

Chase Capital III297306199720272007LIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly

Chase Capital VI24925619982028Any timeLIBOR + 0.625%Quarterly

First Chicago NBD Capital I248256199720272007LIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly

First Chicago NBD Institutional Capital A49954919962026Any time7.95%Semiannually

First Chicago NBD Institutional Capital B25027319962026Any time7.75%Semiannually

First USA Capital Trust I331996202720079.33%Semiannually

JPM Capital Trust I7507731996202720077.54%Semiannually

JPM Capital Trust II4004121997202720077.95%Semiannually

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital X1,0001,0122002203220077.00%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital XI1,0759822003203320085.88%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital XII4003862003203320086.25%
QuarterlyJPMorgan Chase Capital XIII472487200420342014LIBOR + 0.95%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XIV6005792004203420096.20%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XV99498320052035Any time5.88%Semiannually

JPMorgan Chase Capital XVI5004882005203520106.35%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XVII49646720052035Any time5.85%Semiannually

JPMorgan Chase Capital XVIII74874920062036Any time6.95%Semiannually

JPMorgan Chase Capital XIX5625632006203620116.63%Quarterly
JPMorgan Chase Capital XX99599620062036Any time6.55%Semiannually
Total
$12,032$12,209
(a)Represents the amount of capital securities issued to the public by each trust,including unamortized original issue discount
.(b)Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures issued to each trust,including unamortized original issue disco
unt.The principal amount of debentures issued to the trusts includes the
impact of hedging and purchase accounting fair value adjustments that were recorded on the Firm™s Consolidated financial statem
ents.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
126JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 21 ŒCommon stock
At December 31,2006,JPMorgan Chase was authorized to issue 9.0 billion
shares of common stock with a $1 par va
lue per share.Common shares issued
(newly issued or distributed from treasury) by JPMorgan Chase during 2006,
2005 and 2004 were as follows:December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(b)Issued Œ balance at January 1
3,618.23,584.82,044.4
Newly issued:Employee benefits and compensation plans39.334.069.0
Employee stock purchase plans0.61.43.1
Purchase accounting acquisitions and otherŠŠ1,469.4
Total newly issued39.9
35.41,541.5
Cancelled shares(0.3)(2.0)(1.1)
Total issued Œ balance at December 31
3,657.83,618.23,584.8
Treasury Œ balance at January 1
(131.5)(28.6)(1.8)
Purchase of treasury stock(90.7)(93.5)(19.3)
Share repurchases related to employeestock-based awards
(a)(8.8)(9.4)(7.5)
Issued from treasury:Employee benefits and compensation plans34.4ŠŠEmployee stock purchase plans0.5ŠŠTotal issued from treasury34.9
ŠŠTotal treasury Œ balance at December 31
(196.1)(131.5)(28.6)
Outstanding 3,461.73,486.73,556.2
(a)Participants in the Firm™s stock-based incentive plans may have shares withheld to cover
income taxes.The shares withheld amounted to 8.1 million,8.2 million and 5.7 million for

2006,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
During 2006,2005 and 2004,the Firm repurchased 91 million shares,94 mil-
lion shares and 19 million shares,respectively,of common stock under stock

repurchase programs approved by the Board of Directors.
As of December 31,2006,approximately 464 million unissued shares of 
common stock were reserved for issuance under various employee or director

incentive,compensation,option and stock purchase plans.
Note 22 ŒEarnings per share
SFAS 128 requires the presentation of basic and diluted earnings per share

(ﬁEPSﬂ) in the Consolidated statement of income.Basic EPS is computed by

dividing net income applicable to common stock by the weighted-average

number of common shares outstanding for the period.Diluted EPS is comput-
ed using the same method as basic EPS but,in the denominator,the number

of commonshares reflect,in 
addition to outstanding shares,the potential
dilution that could occur if convertible securities or other contracts to issue

common stock were converted or exercised into common stock.Net income

available for common stock is the same for basic EPS and diluted EPS,as

JPMorgan Chase had no convertible securities,and therefore,no adjustments

to Net income available for common stock were necessary.The following

table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for 2006,2005 and

2004:Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except per share amounts)
200620052004
(b)Basic earnings per share
Income from continuing operations 
$13,649
$8,254$4,260
Discontinued operations 
795229206
Net income14,4448,4834,466
Less:preferred stock dividends
41352
Net income applicable to common stock$
14,440$8,470$4,414
Weighted-average basic 
shares outstanding3,470.13,491.72,779.9
Income from continuing operations
per share$3.93
$2.36$1.51
Discontinued operations per share
0.230.070.08
Net income per share$
4.16$2.43$1.59
Diluted earnings per share
Net income applicable to 
common stock$14,440
$8,470$4,414
Weighted-average basic 
shares outstanding3,470.13,491.72,779.9
Add:Employee 
restricted stock,RSUs,stock options and SARs
103.865.670.7
Weighted-average diluted 
shares outstanding
(a)3,573.93,557.32,850.6
Income from continuing operations
per share$3.82
$2.32$1.48
Discontinued operations per share
0.220.060.07
Net income per share$
4.04$2.38$1.55
(a) Options issued under employee stock-based incentive plans to purchase 150 million,280
million and 300 million shares of common stock were outstanding for the years ended
2006,2005 and 2004,respectively,but were not included in the computation of diluted

EPS because the options were antidilutive.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The following is a summary of JPMorgan Chase™s preferred stock outstanding as of December 31:
Stated value and
Rate in effect at(in millions,exceptredemption
SharesOutstanding at December 31,
EarliestDecember 31,
per share amounts and rates)price per share
(b)2006200520062005redemption date
20066.63% Series H cumulative(a)$500.00
Š0.28$Š$139NA
NATotal preferred stock
Š0.28$Š$139
(a)Represented by depositary shares.
(b)Redemption price includes amount shown in the table plus any accrued but unpaid dividends.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
127Note 23 ŒAccumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) includes the after-tax change in unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities,fo
reign currency translation adjust-
ments (including the impact of related derivatives),cash flow hedging activities and the net actuarial loss and prior service c
ost related to the Firm™s defined benefit
pension and OPEB plans.
Net actuarial loss andprior service (credit)Accumulated
Translationof defined benefitother
Unrealized gains (losses)adjustments,Cashpension andcomprehensive
(in millions)on AFS securities
(b)net of hedgesflow hedgesOPEB plans
(f)income (loss)Balance at December 31,2003
(a)$19$(6)$(43)$Š$(30)
Net change(a)(80)(c)(2)(96)Š(178)
Balance at December 31,2004
(61)(8)(139)Š(208)
Net change (163)
(d)Š(255)Š(418)
Balance at December 31,2005
(224)(8)(394)Š(626)
Net change 253
(e)13(95)Š171
Adjustment to initially applySFAS 158,net of taxesŠŠŠ(1,102)(1,102)
Balance at December 31,2006$29$5$
(489)$(1,102)$(1,557)
(a)Balance at December 31,2003 reflects heritage JPMorgan Chase only.2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s res
ults and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of the AFS securities portfolio and retained i
nterests in securitizations recorded in Other assets.
(c) The net change during 2004 was due primarily to higher interest rates and recognition of unrealized gains from securities s
ales.
(d)The net change during 2005 was due primarily to higher interest rates,partially offset by the reversal of unrealized losses 
from securities sales.
(e) The net change during 2006 was due primarily to the reversal of unrealized losses from securities sales.

(f) For further discussion of SFAS 158,see Note 7 on pages 100Œ105 of this Annual Report.
The following table presents the after-tax changes in net unrealized holdings gains (losses),reclassification adjustments for r
ealized gains and losses on AFS securities
and cash flow hedges,and changes resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of related deriv
atives).The table also reflects the
adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) resulting from the initial application of SFAS 158 to the Firm™s de
fined benefit pension and OPEB plans.
Reclassification adjustments include amounts recognized in Net income during the current year that had been recorded previously in Other comprehensive income (loss).
200620052004
(b)BeforeTaxAfterBeforeTaxAfterBeforeTaxAfter
Year ended December 31,(in millions)taxeffecttaxtaxeffecttaxtaxeffecttax
Unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities:
Net unrealized holdings gains (losses) arising during 
the period$(403)$144$(259)
$(1,706)$648$(1,058)$68$(27)$41
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains) losses included in Net income797(285)512
1,443(548)895(200)79(121)
Net change394(141)253
(263)100(163)(132)52(80)
Translation adjustments:
Translation
590(236)354
(584)233(351)474(194)280
Hedges(563)222(341)
584(233)351(478)196(282)
Net change27(14)13
ŠŠŠ(4)2(2)
Cash flow hedges:Net unrealized holdings gains (losses) arising during 
the period(250)98(152)
(470)187(283)57(23)34
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains) losses  included in Net income93(36)57
46(18)28(216)86(130)
Net change(157)62(95)
(424)169(255)(159)63(96)
Total Other comprehensive income$264$(93)$171
$(687)$269$(418)$(295)$117$(178)
Net actuarial loss and prior service cost (credit) 
of defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:Adjustments to initially apply SFAS 158
(a)$(1,746)$644$(1,102)
NANANANANANA
(a)For further discussion of SFAS 158,see Note 7 on pages 100Œ105of this Annual Report.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
128JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 24 Œ Income taxesJPMorgan Chase and eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S.federal
income tax return.JPMorgan Chase uses the asset-and-liability method

required by SFAS 109 to provide income taxes on all transactions recorded in

the Consolidated financial statements.This method requires that income taxes

reflect the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences

between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for book and tax purposes.

Accordingly,a deferred tax liability or asset for each temporary difference is

determined based upon the tax rates that the Firm expects to be in effect

when the underlying items of income and expense are realized.JPMorgan

Chase™s expense for income taxes includes the current and deferred portions

of that expense.A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax

assets to the amount the Firm expects to realize.
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of the Firm™s busi-
nesses,and from conducting business and being taxed in a substantial number

of jurisdictions,significant judgments and estimates are required to be made.

Agreement of tax liabilities between JPMorgan Chase and the many tax 
jurisdictions in which the Firm files tax returns may not be finalized for 
several years.Thus,the Firm™s final tax-related assets and liabilities may 

ultimately be different than those currently reported.Deferred income tax expense (benefit) results from differences between assetsand liabilities measured for financial reporting and for income-tax return 
purposes.The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are

reflected in the following table:December 31,(in millions)
20062005Deferred tax assets
Employee benefits$5,175
$3,381
Allowance for other than loan losses
3,5333,554Allowance for loan losses
2,9102,745Non-U.S.operations
566807Fair value adjustments
427531Gross deferred tax assets$12,611
$11,018
Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation and amortization$3,668
$3,683
Leasing transactions
2,6753,158Non-U.S.operations
1,4351,297Fee income
1,2161,396Other,net
78149Gross deferred tax liabilities$9,072
$9,683
Valuation allowance
$210
$110
Net deferred tax asset$3,329
$1,225
A valuation allowance has been recorded in accordance with SFAS 109,
primarily relating to capital losses associated with certain portfolio investments.
The components of income tax expense included in the Consolidated statements

of income were as follows:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(a)Current income tax expense U.S.federal
$5,512
$4,178$1,613
Non-U.S.
1,656887653
U.S.state and local
879311157
Total current income tax expense 8,047
5,3762,423
Deferred income tax (benefit) expense U.S.federal
(1,628)(2,063)(382)
Non-U.S.
194316(322)
U.S.state and local
(376)(44)(123)
Total deferred income tax 
(benefit) expense(1,810)(1,791)(827)
Total income tax expense
from continuing operations6,237
3,5851,596
Total income tax expense
from discontinued operations
572147132
Total income tax expense$6,809
$3,732$1,728
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Total income tax expense includes $367 million of tax benefits recorded in
2006 as a result of tax audit resolutions.
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effects of SFAS 52 foreign currency
translation adjustments,SFAS 115 unrealized gains and losses on AFS securi-
ties,SFAS 133 hedge transactions and certain tax benefits associated with the

Firm™s employee stock-based compensation plans.Also not reflected are the

cumulative tax effects of implementing in 2006,SFAS 155,which applies to

certain hybrid financial instruments;SFAS 156,which accounts for servicing

financial assets;and SFAS 158,which applies to defined benefit pension and
OPEB plans.The tax effect of all items recorded directly in Stockholders™ equity
was an increase of $885 million,$425 million and $431 million in 2006,

2005 and 2004,respectively.
U.S.federal income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earn-
ings of certain non-U.S.subsidiaries,to the extent that such earnings have

been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time.For 2006,such earn-

ings approximated $423 million on a pretax basis.At December 31,2006,the

cumulative amount of undistributed pretax earnings in these subsidiaries
approximated $1.9 billion.It is not practicable at this time to determine the

income tax liability that would result upon repatriation of these earnings.
On October 22,2004,the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the ﬁActﬂ)

was signed into law.The Act created a temporary incentive for U.S.compa-

nies to repatriate accumulated foreign earnings at a substantially reduced
U.S.effective tax rate by providing a dividends received deduction on the

repatriation of certain foreign earnings to the U.S.taxpayer (the ﬁrepatriation

provisionﬂ).The deduction was subject to a number of limitations and

requirements.
In the fourth quarter of 2005,the Firm applied the repatriation
provision to $1.9 billion of cash from foreign earnings,resulting in a net tax

benefit of $55 million.The $1.9 billion of cash was invested in accordance

with the Firm™s domestic reinvestment plan pursuant to the guidelines set

forth in the Act.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
129The tax expense (benefit) applicable to securities gains and losses for the years
2006,2005 and 2004 was $(219) million,$(536) million and $126 million,

respectively.
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S.income tax rate to the 
effective tax rate for continuing operations for the past three years is shown in

the following table:Year ended December 31,
200620052004
(a)Statutory U.S.federal tax rate
35.0%35.0%35.0%
Increase (decrease) in tax rate resulting from:

U.S.state and local income taxes,net of
federal income tax benefit
2.11.40.2
Tax-exempt income
(2.2)(3.1)(4.2)
Non-U.S.subsidiary earnings
(0.5)(1.4)(1.4)
Business tax credits(2.5)(3.7)(4.3)
Other,net
(0.5)2.12.0
Effective tax rate31.4%
30.3%27.3%
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The following table presents the U.S.and non-U.S.components of Income from
continuing operations before income tax expense:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(b)U.S.
$12,934
$8,683$3,566
Non-U.S.
(a)6,9523,1562,290
Income from continuing operations 
before income tax expense$19,886
$11,839$5,856
(a) For purposes of this table,non-U.S.income is defined as income generated from operations
located outside the United States of America.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Note 25 ŒRestrictions on cash and 
intercompany funds transfers
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.™s business is subject to examination and regula-
tion by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (ﬁOCCﬂ).The Bank is a

member of the U.S.Federal Reserve System and its deposits are insured by the

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (ﬁFDICﬂ).
The Federal Reserve Board requires depository institutions to maintain cash
reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank.The average amount of reserve balances

deposited by the Firm™s bank subsidiaries with various Federal Reserve Banks

was approximately $2.2 billion in 2006 and $2.7 billion in 2005.
Restrictions imposed by U.S.federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase and certain
of its affiliates from borrowing from banking subsidiaries unless the loans are
secured in specified amounts.Such secured loans to the Firm or to other 

affiliates are generally limited to 10% of the banking subsidiary™s total capital,

as determined by the risk-based capital guidelines;the aggregate amount of

all such loans is limited to 20% of the banking subsidiary™s total capital.
The principal sources of JPMorgan Chase™s income (on a parent companyŒonly
basis) are dividends and interest from JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.and the

other banking and nonbanking subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase.In addition to

dividend restrictions set forth in statutes and regulations,the Federal Reserve

Board,the OCC and the FDIC have authority under the Financial Institutions

Supervisory Act to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the bank-

ing organizations they supervise,including JPMorgan Chase and its sub-

sidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies,if,in the banking reg
ula-tor™s opinion,payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound
practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.
At January 1,2007 and 2006,JPMorgan Chase™s banking subsidiaries could
pay,in the aggregate,$14.3 billion and $7.4 billion,respectively,in dividends

to their respective bank holding companies without prior approval of their rele-

vantbanking regulators.The capacity to pay dividends in 2007 will be supple-

mented by the banking subsidiaries™ earnings during the year.
In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S.and non-U.S.
regulators,as of December 31,2006 and 2005,cash in the amount of 

$8.6 billion and $6.4 billion,respectively,and securities with a fair value of

$2.1 billion and $2.1 billion,respectively,were segregated in special bank

accounts for the benefit of securities and futures brokerage customers.
Note 26 ŒCapital
There are two categories of risk-based capital:Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital.

Tier 1 capital includes common stockholders™ equity,qualifying preferred stock

and minority interest less goodwill and other adjustments.Tier 2 capital con-

sists of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1,subordinated long-term debt

and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2,and the aggregate allowance for

credit losses up to a certain percentage of risk-weighted assets.Total regulato-

ry capital is subject to deductions for investments in certain subsidiaries.Under

the risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board,JPMorgan

Chase is required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and Total (Tier 1 plus

Tier 2) capital to risk weighted assets,as well as minimum leverage ratios

(which are defined as Tier 1 capital to average adjusted onŒbalance sheet

assets).Failure to meet these minimum requirements could cause the Federal

Reserve Board to take action.Banking subsidiaries also are subject to these

capital requirements by their respective primary regulators.As of December 31,

2006 and 2005,JPMorgan Chase and all of its banking subsidiaries were well-

capitalized and met all capital requirements to which each was subject.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
130JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries at Decem
ber 31,2006,and December 31,2005:
Tier 1TotalRisk-weightedAdjustedTier 1TotalTier 1
(in millions,except ratios)capital capitalassets
(c)average assets
(d)capital ratiocapital ratioleverage ratio
December 31,2006
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(a)$81,055$115,265$935,909$1,308,6998.7%12.3%6.2%
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.
68,72696,103840,0571,157,4498.211.45.9
Chase Bank USA,N.A.
9,24211,50677,63866,20211.914.814.0
December 31,2005
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(a)$72,474$102,437$850,643$1,152,5468.5%12.0%6.3%
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.61,05084,227750,397995,0958.111.26.1

Chase Bank USA,N.A.8,60810,94172,22959,88211.915.214.4
Well-capitalized ratios
(b)6.0%10.0%5.0%
(e)Minimum capital ratios
(b)4.08.03.0
(f)(a) Asset and capital amounts for JPMorgan Chase™s banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany transactions,whereas the respectiv
e amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions.
(b)As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve Board,OCC and FDIC.

(c) Includes offŒbalance sheet risk-weighted assets in the amounts of $305.3 billion,$290.1 billion and $12.7 billion,respectiv
ely,at December 31,2006,and $279.2 billion,$260.0 billion and 
$15.5 billion,respectively,at December 31,2005,for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries.
(d) Average adjusted assets for purposes of calculating the leverage ratio include total average assets adjusted for unrealized
 gains/losses on securities,less deductions for disallowed goodwill and 
other intangible assets,investments in subsidiaries and the total adjusted carrying value of nonfinancial equity investments th
at are subject to deductions from Tier 1 capital.
(e) Represents requirements for banking subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora
tion Improvement Act.There is no Tier 1 leverage component in 
the definition of a well-capitalized bank holding company.
(f) The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio for bank holding companies and banks is 3% or 4% depending on factors specified in regula
tions issued by the Federal Reserve Board and OCC.
The following table shows the components of the Firm™s Tier 1 and Total capital:
December 31,(in millions)
20062005Tier 1 capitalTotal stockholders™ equity
$115,790
$107,211
Effect of certain items in Accumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss) excluded from Tier 1 capital
(a)1,562618Adjusted stockholders™ equity117,352
107,829Minority interest
(b)12,97012,660Less:Goodwill
45,18643,621Investments in certain subsidiaries420401Nonqualifying intangible assets3,6613,993Tier 1 capital$81,055
$72,474
Tier 2 capitalLong-term debt and other instrumentsqualifying as Tier 2
$26,613
$ 22,733Qualifying allowance for credit losses
7,8037,490Less:Investments in certain subsidiaries 
and other206260Tier 2 capital$34,210
$29,963
Total qualifying capital$115,265
$102,437
(a) Includes the effect of net unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities,cash flow hedging
activities and,at December 31,2006,unrecognized amounts related to the Firm™s pension

and OPEB plans.
(b)Primarily includes trust preferred securities of certain business trusts.
Note 27 ŒCommitments and contingencies
At December 31,2006,JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were obligated
under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment

used primarily for banking purposes.Certain leases contain renewal options

or escalation clauses providing for increased rental payments based upon
maintenance,utility and tax increases or require the Firm to perform restoration

work on leased premises.No lease agreement imposes restrictions on the

Firm™s ability to pay dividends,engage in debt or equity financing transactions

or enter into further lease agreements.
The following table presents required future minimum rental payments under
operating leases with noncancelable lease terms that expire after December 31,

2006:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
2007$1,058
20081,033

2009962

2010865

2011791
After 20116,320
Total minimum payments required
(a)11,029Less:Sublease rentals under noncancelable subleases(1,177)
Net minimum payment required
$9,852
(a)Lease restoration obligations are accrued in accordance with SFAS 13,and are not reported
as a required minimum lease payment.
Total rental expense was as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(a)Gross rental expense$1,266
$1,239$1,161
Sublease rental income(194)(192)(158)
Net rental expense$1,072
$1,047$1,003
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
At December 31,2006,assets were pledged to secure public deposits and for
other purposes.The significant components of the assets pledged were as follows:
December 31,(in billions)
20062005Reverse repurchase/securities borrowing agreements
$291
$320
Securities4024Loans11774Trading assets and other
10899Total assets pledged$556
$517
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
131Litigation reserve
The Firm maintains litigation reserves for certain of its outstanding litigation.

In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 5,JPMorgan Chase accrues for a

litigation-related liability when it is probable that such a liability has been
incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.While the

outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain,management believes,in light of

all information known to it at December 31,2006,the Firm™s litigation

reserves were adequate at such date.Management reviews litigation reserves

periodically,and the reserves may be increased or decreased in the future to

reflect further litigation developments.The Firm believes it has meritorious

defenses to claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding litigation
and,with respect to such litigation,intends to continue to defend itself vigor-

ously,litigating or settling cases according to management™s judgment as to

what is in the best interests of stockholders.
Insurance recoveries related to certain material legal proceedings were $512

million and $208 million in 2006 and 2005,respectively.Charges related to

certain material legal proceedings were $2.8 billion and $3.7 billion in 2005
and 2004,respectively.There were no charges in 2006 related to material legal

proceedings.
Note 28 ŒAccounting for derivative 
instruments and hedging activitiesDerivative instruments enable end users to increase,reduce or alter exposure
to credit or market risks.The value of a derivative is derived from its reference

to an underlying variable or combination of variables such as equity,foreign

exchange,credit,commodity or interest rate prices or indices.JPMorgan

Chase makes markets in derivatives for customers and also is an end-user of

derivatives in order to hedge market 
exposures,modify the interest rate char-
acteristics of related balance sheet instruments or meet longer-term invest-

ment objectives.The majority of the Firm™s derivatives are entered into for trad-

ing purposes.Both trading and end-user derivatives are recorded at fair value

in Trading assets and Trading liabilities as set forth in Note 4 on pages 98Œ99

of this Annual Report.
SFAS 133,as amended by SFAS 138,SFAS 149,and SFAS 155,establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,including those

used for trading and hedging activities,and derivative instruments embedded

in other contracts.All free-standing derivatives,whether designated for hedg-

ing relationships or not,are required to be recorded on the Consolidated bal-

ance sheets at fair value.The accounting for changes in value of a derivative

depends on whether the contract is for trading purposes or has been designat-

ed and qualifies for hedge accounting.In order to qualify for hedge accounting,a derivative must be considered highly

effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being hedged.In order

for a derivative to be designated as a hedge,there must be documentation of the

risk management objective and strategy,including identification of the hedging

instrument,the hedged item and the risk exposure,and how effectiveness is to be

assessed prospectively and retrospectively.To assess effectiveness,the Firm uses

statistical methods such as regression analysis,as well as nonstatistical methods

including dollar value comparisons of the change in the fair value of the derivative

to the change in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item.The extent to

which a hedging instrument has been and is expected to continue to be effective
at achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows must be assessed and

documented at least quarterly.Any ineffectiveness must be reported in current-

period earnings.If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective at hedg-

ing the designated exposure,hedge accounting is discontinued.
For qualifying fair value hedges,all changes in the fair value of the derivative

and in the fair value of the hedged item for the risk being hedged are recog-
nized in earnings.If the hedge relationship is terminated,then the fair value

adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of
the item and continues to be amortized to earnings as a yield adjustment.For

qualifying cash flow hedges,the effective portion of the change in the fair value

of the derivative is recorded in Other comprehensive income and recognized in

the Consolidated statement of income when the hedged cash flows affect earn-

ings.The ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are immediately recognized in

earnings.If the hedge relationship is terminated,then the change in fair value

of the derivative recorded in Other comprehensive income is recognized when

the cash flows that were hedged occur,consistent with the original hedge strat-

egy.For hedge relationships discontinued because the forecasted transaction is

not expected to occur according to the original strategy,any related derivative

amounts recorded in Other comprehensive income are immediately recognized

in earnings.For qualifying net investment hedges,changes in the fair value of

the derivative or the revaluation of the foreign currencyŒdenominated debt

instrument are recorded in the translation adjustments account within Other

comprehensive income.
JPMorgan Chase™s fair value hedges primarily include hedges of fixed-rate

long-term debt,loans,AFS securities and MSRs.Interest rate swaps are the

most common type of derivative contract used to modify exposure to interest

rate risk,converting fixed-rate assets and liabilities to a floating rate.Prior to

the adoption of SFAS 156,interest rate options,swaptions and forwards were

also used in combination with interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value of

the Firm™s MSRs in SFAS 133 hedge relationships.For a further discussion of

MSR risk management activities,see Note 16 on pages 121Œ122 of this

Annual Report.All amounts have been included in earnings consistent with

the classification of the hedged item,primarily Net interest income,Mortgage

fees and related income,and Other income.The Firm did not recognize any

gains or losses during 2006,2005 or 2004 on firm commitments that no

longer qualify as fair value hedges.
JPMorgan Chase also enters into derivative contracts to hedge exposure to
variability in cash flows from floating-rate financial instruments and forecast-

ed transactions,primarily the rollover of short-term assets and liabilities,and

foreign currencyŒdenominated revenues and expenses.Interest rate swaps,

futures and forward contracts are the most common instruments used to

reduce the impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate changes on

future earnings.All amounts affecting earnings have been recognized consis-

tent with the classification of the hedged item,primarily Net interest income.
The Firm uses forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign
currencyŒdenominated debt instruments to protect the value of net invest-

ments in subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S.dollar.The por-

tion of the hedging instruments excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness (forward points) is recorded in Net interest income.
The following table presents derivative instrument hedging-related activities
for the periods indicated:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(b)Fair value hedge ineffective net gains/(losses)
(a)$51
$(58)$199
Cash flow hedge ineffective net gains/(losses)(a)2(2)Š
Cash flow hedging gains/(losses) on forecasted transactions that failed to occur
ŠŠ1(a)Includes ineffectiveness and the components of hedging instruments that have been 
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
132JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Over the next 12 months,it is expected that $67 million (after-tax) of net
losses recorded in Other comprehensive income at December 31,2006,will

be recognized in earnings.The maximum length of time over which forecasted

transactions are hedged is 10 years,and such transactions primarily relate to

core lending and borrowing activities.
JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of the Firm™s
economic hedges.For example,the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to

standard credit derivatives used to manage the credit risk of loans and com-

mitments because of the difficulties in qualifying such contracts as hedges

under SFAS 133.Similarly,the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to cer-

tain interest rate derivatives used as economic hedges.
Note 29 ŒOff
Œbalance sheet lending-related
financial instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g.,commitments
and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers.The contractual

amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit

risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment or the Firm fulfill its

obligation under the guarantee,and the counterparty subsequently fail to per-

form according to the terms of the contract.Most of these commitments and

guarantees expire without a default occurring or without being drawn.As a

result,the total contractual amount of these instruments is not,in the Firm™s

view,representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding require-

ments.Further,certain commitments,primarily related to consumer financings,

are cancelable,upon notice,at the option of the Firm.
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in wholesale-related contracts,an
allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments is maintained.

See Note 13 on pages 113Œ114 of this Annual Report for further discussion of

the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments.
The following table summarizes the contractual amounts of offŒbalance 
sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees and the related

allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments at December 31,

2006 and 2005:OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments 
and guarantees 
Allowance for
Contractuallending-related 
amountcommitments
December 31,(in millions)
2006200520062005Lending-related
Consumer(a)$747,535
$655,596
$25
$15
Wholesale:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(b)(c)(d)229,204208,469305208Asset purchase agreements(e)67,52931,09563Standby letters of credit and guarantees
(c)(f)(g)89,13277,199187173Other letters of credit(c)5,5594,34611Total wholesale391,424
321,109499385Total lending-related$1,138,959
$976,705
$524
$400
Other guarantees
Securities lending guarantees
(h)$318,095
$244,316
NANADerivatives qualifying as
guarantees
71,53161,759NANA(a)Includes Credit card lending-related commitments of $657 billion at December 31,2006,
and $579 billion at December 31,2005,which represent the total available credit to the

Firm™s cardholders.The Firm has not experienced,and does not anticipate,that all of its

cardholders will utilize their entire available lines of credit at the same time.The Firm can

reduce or cancel a credit card commitment by providing the cardholder prior notice or,in

some cases,without notice as permitted by law.
(b)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $39.0 billion and $28.3 billion at December
31,2006 and 2005,respectively,which are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with the

Federal Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(c)Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $32.8 billion and $29.3
billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(d) Excludes unfunded commitments to private third-party equity funds of $589 million and
$242 million at December 31,2006,and December 31,2005,respectively.
(e)Represents asset purchase agreements with the Firm™s administered multi-seller asset-
backed commercial paper conduits,which excludes $356 million and $32.4 billion at

December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively,related to conduits that were consolidated in

accordance with FIN 46R,as the underlying assets of the conduits are reported in the Firm™s

Consolidated balance sheets.It also includes $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion of asset purchase

agreements to other third-party entities at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.

Certain of the Firm™s administered multi-seller conduits were deconsolidated as of June

2006;the assets deconsolidated were approximately $33 billion.
(f)JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $13.5 billion and $9.0 billion of these arrange-
ments at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(g)Includes unused commitments to issue standby letters of credit of $45.7 billion and $37.5
billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(h) Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was
$317.9 billion and $245.0 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit
Unfunded commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend only when a
customer has complied with predetermined conditions,and they generally

expire on fixed dates.
FIN 45 establishes accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees,

requiring that a guarantor recognize,at the inception of a guarantee,a liability

in an amount equal to the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing

the guarantee.FIN 45 defines a guarantee as a contract that contingently

requires the guarantor to pay a guaranteed party,based upon:(a) changes in

an underlying asset,liability or equity security of the guaranteed party;or (b) a

third party™s failure to perform under a specified agreement.The Firm considers

the following offŒbalance sheet lending arrangements to be guarantees under

FIN 45:certain asset purchase agreements,
standby letters of credit and financialguarantees,securities lending i
ndemnifications,
certain indemnification agree-ments included within third-party contractual arrangements and certain deriva-

tive contracts.These guarantees are described in further detail below.
The fair value at inception of the obligation undertaken when issuing the

guarantees and commitments that qualify under FIN 45 is typically equal to

the net present value of the future amount of premium receivable under the

contract.The Firm has recorded this amount in Other Liabilities with an off-

setting entry recorded in Other Assets.As cash is received under the contract,

it is applied to the premium receivable recorded in Other Assets,and the 

fair value of the liability recorded at inception is amortized into income as

Lending & deposit related fees over the life of the guarantee contract.The

amount of the liability related to FIN 45guarantees recorded at December 31,

2006 and 2005,excluding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related

commitments and derivative contracts discussed below,was approximately

$297 million and $313 million,respectively.
Asset purchase agreements
The majority of the Firm™s unfunded commitments are not guarantees as

defined in FIN 45,except for certain asset purchase agreements that are prin-

cipally used as a mechanism to provide liquidity to SPEs,primarily multi-seller

conduits,as described in Note 15 on pages 118Œ120 of this Annual Report.

Some of these asset purchase agreements can be exercised at any time by
the SPE™s administrator,while others require a triggering event to occur.

Triggering events include,but are not limited to,a need for liquidity,a decline
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
133in market value of the assets or a downgrade in the rating of JPMorgan
Chase Bank,N.A.These agreements may cause the Firm to purchase an asset

from the SPE at an amount above the asset™s fair value,in effect providing a

guarantee of the initial value of the reference asset as of the date of the

agreement.In most instances,third-party credit enhancements of the SPE mit-

igate the Firm™s potential losses on these agreements.
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees are conditional lending

commitments issued by JPMorgan Chase to guarantee the performance of 

a customer to a third party under certain arrangements,such as commercial

paper facilities,bond financings,acquisition financings,trade and similar

transactions.Approximately 50% of these arrangements mature within 

three years.The Firm typically has recourse to recover from the customer any

amounts paid under these guarantees;in addition,the Firm may hold cash 

or other highly liquid collateral to support these guarantees.
Securities lending indemnification Through the Firm™s securities lending program,customers™ securities,via cus-

todial and non-custodial arrangements,may be lent to third parties.As part of

this program,the Firm issues securities lending indemnification agreements to

the lender which protects it principally against the failure of the third-party
borrower to return the lent securities.To support these indemnification agree-

ments,the Firm obtains cash or other highly liquid collateral with a market
value exceeding 100% of the value of the securities on loan from the borrower
.Collateral is marked to market daily to help assure that collateralization is

adequate.Additional collateral is called from the borrower if a shortfall exists

or released to the borrower in the event of overcollateralization.If an indem-

nifiable default by a borrower occurs,the Firm would expect to use the collat-

eral held to purchase replacement securities in the market or to credit the

lending customer with the cash equivalent thereof.
Also,as part of this program,the Firm invests cash collateral received from
the borrower in accordance with approved guidelines.On an exceptional

basis the Firm may indemnify the lender against this investment risk when
certain types of investments are made.
Based upon historical experience,management believes that these risks of
loss are remote.
Indemnification agreements Œ general
In connection with issuing securities to investors,the Firm may enter into con-

tractual arrangements with third parties that may require the Firm to make a

payment to them in the event of a change in tax law or an adverse interpreta-
tion of tax law.In certain cases,the contract also may include a termination

clause,which would allow the Firm to settle the contract at its fair value;thus,

such a clause would not require the Firm to make a payment under the indemni-

fication agreement.Even without the termination clause,management does not

expect such indemnification agreements to have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition of JPMorgan Chase.The Firm may also enter

into indemnification clauses when it sells a business or assets to a third party,

pursuant to which it indemnifies that third party for losses it may incur due to
actions taken by the Firm prior to the sale.See below for more information

regarding the Firm™s loan securitization activities.It is difficult to estimate the

Firm™s maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements,since

this would require an assessment of future changes in tax law and future claims
that may be made against the Firm that have not yet occurred.However,based

upon historical experience,management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
Securitization-related indemnifications

As part of the Firm™s loan securitization activities,as described in Note 14 on

pages 114Œ118of this Annual Report,the Firm provides representations and

warranties that certain securitized loans meet specific requirements.The Firm

may be required to repurchase the loans and/or indemnify the purchaser of the
loans against losses due to any breaches of such representations or warranties.

Generally,the maximum amount of future payments the Firm would be

required to make under such repurchase and/or indemnification provisions

would be equal to the current amount of assets held by such securitization-
related SPEs as of December 31,2006,plus,in certain circumstances,accrued

and unpaid interest on such loans and certain expenses.The potential loss due

to such repurchase and/or indemnity is mitigated by the due diligence the Firm
performs before the sale to ensure that the assets comply with the requirements
set forth in the representations and warranties.Historically,losses incurred on

such repurchases and/or indemnifications have been insignificant,and therefore

management expects the risk of material loss to be remote.
Credit card charge-backs 
The Firm is a partner with one of the leading companies in electronic payment

services in a joint venture operating under the name of Chase Paymentech

Solutions,LLC (the ﬁjoint ventureﬂ).The joint venture was formed in October

2005,as a result of an agreement by the Firm and First Data Corporation,its

joint venture partner,to integrate the companies™ jointly owned Chase

Merchant Services (ﬁCMSﬂ) and Paymentech merchant businesses.The joint

venture provides merchant processing services in the United States and Canada.Under the rules of Visa USA,Inc.and Mastercard International,JPMorgan Chase

Bank,N.A.,is liable primarily for the amount of each processed credit card sales

transaction that is the subject of a dispute between a cardmember and a mer-

chant.The joint ventureis contr
actually liable to JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.
for these disputed transactions.If a dispute is resolved in the cardmember™s

favor,the joint venture will (through the cardmember™s issuing bank) credit or

refund the amount to the cardmember and will charge back the transaction

to the merchant.If the joint venture is unable to collect the amount from the

merchant,the joint venture will bear the loss for the amount credited or

refunded to the cardmember.The joint venture mitigates this risk by withhold-

ing future settlements,retaining cash reserve accounts or by obtaining other

security.However,in the unlikely event that:(1) a merchant ceases operations

and is unable to deliver products,services or a refund;(2) the joint venture

does not have sufficient collateral from the merchant to provide customer

refunds;and (3) 
the joint venture does not have sufficient financial resourcesto providecustomer refunds,JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.would be liable for
the amount of the transaction,although it would have a contractual right to

recover from its joint venture partner an amount proportionate to such part-
ner™s equity interest in the joint 
venture.For the year ended December 31,
2006,the joint venture incurred aggregate credit losses of $9 million on $661

billion of aggregate volume processed.At December 31,2006,the joint ven-

ture held $893 million of collateral.For the year ended December 31,2005,

the CMS and Paymentech ventures incurred aggregate credit losses of $11

million on $563 billion of aggregate volume processed.At December 31,

2005,the joint venture held $909 million of collateral.The Firm believes that,

based upon historical experience and the collateral held by the joint venture,

the fair value of the Firm™s chargeback-related obligations would not be differ-

ent materially from the credit loss allowance recorded by the joint venture;

therefore,the Firm has not recorded any allowance for losses in excess of the

allowance recorded by the joint venture.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
134JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Exchange and clearinghouse guarantees
The Firm is a member of several securities and futures exchanges and clearing-
houses,both in the United States and other countries.Membership in some of

these organizations requires the Firm to pay a pro rata share of the losses

incurred by the organization as a result of the default of another member.Such

obligations vary with different organizations.These obligations may be limited

to members who dealt with the defaulting member or to the amount (or a
multiple of the amount) of the Firm™s contribution to a members™ guaranty

fund,or,in a few cases,it may be unlimited.It is difficult to estimate the Firm™s

maximum exposure under these membership agreements,since this would

require an assessment of future claims that may be made against the Firm that
have not yet occurred.However,based upon historical experience,manage-

ment expects the risk of loss to be remote.
Derivative guarantees

In addition to the contracts described above,there are certain derivative 

contracts to which the Firm is a counterparty that meet the characteristics of a

guarantee under FIN 45.These derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated bal-

ance sheets at fair value.These contracts include written put options that require

the Firm to purchase assets from the option holder at a specified price by a spec-
ified date in the future,as well as derivatives that effectively guarantee the

return on a counterparty™s reference portfolio of assets.The total notional value

of the derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees was $72 billion and $62

billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.The Firm reduces exposures

to these contracts by entering into offsetting transactions or by entering into

contracts that hedge the market risk related to these contracts.The fair value

related to these contracts was a derivative receivable of $230 million and $198

million,and a derivative payable of $987 million and $767 million at December

31,2006 and 2005,respectively.Finally,certain written put options and credit

derivatives permit cash settlement and do not require the option holder or the

buyer of credit protection to own the reference asset.The Firm does not consider

these contracts to be guarantees under FIN 45.
Note 30 ŒCredit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers are engaged in

similar business activities or activities in the same geographic region,or when they

have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual

obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of the credit risk portfolio
to assess potential concentration risks and to obtain collateral when deemed

necessary.In the Firm™s wholesale portfolio,risk concentrations are evaluated

primarily by industry and by geographic region.In the consumer portfolio,

concentrations are evaluated primarily by product and by U.S.geographic region.
The Firm does not believe exposure to any one loan product with varying terms

(e.g.,interest-only payments for an 
introductory period) or exposure to loanswith high loan-to-value ratios would result 
in a significant concentrationof credit
risk.Terms of loan products and collateral coverage are included in the Firm™s

assessment when extending credit and establishing its Allowance for loan losses.
For further information regarding onŒbalance sheet credit concentrations 

by major product and geography,see Note 12 on pages 112Œ113 of this

Annual Report.For information regarding concentrations of offŒbalance sheet 

lending-related financial instruments by major product,see Note 29 on 

page 132 of this Annual Report.More information about concentrations can
be found in the following tables or discussion in the MD&A:Credit risk management Œ risk monitoringPage 64
Wholesale exposurePage 67

Wholesale selected industry concentrationsPage 68

Emerging markets country exposurePage 72
Consumer real estate loan portfolio by geographic locationPage 74
The table below presents both on
Œbalance sheet and offŒbalance sheet wholesale- and consumer-related credit exposure as of December 31,2006 and 2005:
20062005CreditOn-balanceOff-balanceCreditOn-balanceOff-balance
December 31,(in billions)exposure
(b)sheet(b)(c)sheet(d)exposure(b)sheet(b)(c)sheet(d)Wholesale-related:Banks and finance companies
$63.6$28.1$35.5
$51.1$20.3$30.8
Real estate35.921.614.3
32.519.013.5
Healthcare 30.16.124.0
25.54.720.8
State and municipal governments27.56.920.6
25.36.119.2
Consumer products27.19.118.0
26.710.016.7
All other wholesale446.6167.6279.0
389.6169.5220.1
Total wholesale-related630.8239.4391.4
550.7229.6321.1
Consumer-related:
Home equity155.285.769.5
132.273.958.3
Mortgage 66.359.76.6
64.858.95.9
Auto loans and leases 48.941.07.9
51.846.15.7
All other loans33.527.16.4
24.818.46.4
Card Services-reported(a)743.085.9657.1
651.071.7579.3
Total consumer
Œrelated1,046.9299.4747.5
924.6269.0655.6
Total exposure$1,677.7$538.8$1,138.9
$1,475.3$498.6$976.7
(a)Excludes $67.0 billion and $70.5 billion of securitized credit card receivables at December 31,2006 and 2005,respectively.
(b)Includes HFS loans.

(c)Represents loans,derivative receivables and interests in purchased receivables.

(d)Represents lending-related financial instruments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
135Note 31 ŒFair value of financial instruments
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument
could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties,other

than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The accounting for an asset or liability may differ based upon the type of
instrument and/or its use in a trading or investing strategy.Generally,the

measurement framework in the consolidated financial statements is one of

the following:at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets,with changes in fair value
recorded each period in the Consolidated statements of income;at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets,with changes in fair value
recorded each period in the Accumulated other comprehensive income

component of Stockholders™ equity and as part of Other comprehensive
income;at cost (less other-than-temporary impairments),with changes in fair value
not recorded in the consolidated financial statements but disclosed in the
notes thereto;or
at the lower of cost or fair value.

Determination of fair value The Firm has an established and well-documented process for determining

fair values.Fair value is based upon quoted market prices,where available.

If listed prices or quotes are not available,fair value is based upon internally

developed models that primarily use market-based or independent information

as inputs to the valuation model.Valuation adjustments may be necessary to

ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.These adjustments

include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality,liquidity and 

concentration concerns and are based upon defined methodologies that 

are applied consistently over time.

Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market price (or
parameter) is not indicative of the credit quality of the counterparty.As 

few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange,the majority of derivative

positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their

basis observable market parameters.Market practice is to quote parameters

equivalent to a AA credit rating;thus,all counterparties are assumed to

have the same credit quality.An adjustment is therefore necessary to

reflect the credit quality of each derivative counterparty and to arrive at

fair value.
Liquidity adjustments are necessary when the Firm may not be able to
observe a recent market price for a financial instrument that trades in inactive

(or less active) markets.Thus,valuation adjustments for the risk of loss due

to a lack of liquidity are applied to those positions to arrive at fair value.

The Firm tries to ascertain the amount of uncertainty in the initial valuation

based upon the degree of liquidity or illiquidity,as the case may be,of the

market in which the instrument trades and makes liquidity adjustments to

the financialinstruments.The Firm measures the liquidity adjustment based
upon the following factors:(1) the amount of time since the last relevant

pricing point;(2) whether there was an actual trade or relevant external

quote;and (3) the volatility of the principal component of the financial

instrument.Concentration valuation adjustments are necessary to reflect the cost of
unwinding larger-than-normal market-size risk positions.The cost is deter-

mined based upon the size of the adverse market move that is likely to
occur during the extended period required to bring a position down to anonconcentrated level.An estimate of the period needed to reduce,without

market disruption,a position to a nonconcentrated level is generally based

upon the relationship of the position to the average daily trading volume of

that position.Without these adjustments,larger positions would be valued

at a price greater than the price at which the Firm could exit the positions.
Valuation adjustments are determined based upon established policies and are
controlled by a price verification group,which is independent of the risk-taking

function.Economic substantiation of models,prices,market inputs and revenue

through price/input testing,as well as back-testing,is done to validate the appro-
priatenessof the valuation methodology.Any changes to the valuation method-
ology are reviewed by management to ensure the changes are justified.The methods described above may produce a fair value calculation that may
not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values.

Furthermore,the use of different methodologies to determine the fair value 

of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair
value at the reporting date.
Certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are excludedfrom the scope of SFAS 107.Accordingly,the fair value disclosures required

by SFAS 107 provide only a partial estimate of the fair value of JPMorgan

Chase.For example,the Firm has developed long-term relationships with its

customers through its deposit base and credit card accounts,commonly

referred to as core deposit intangibles and credit card relationships.In the

opinion of management,these items,in the aggregate,add significant value

to JPMorgan Chase,but their fair value is not disclosed in this Note.
The following items describe the methodologies and assumptions used,by
financial instrument,to determine fair value.
Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value

The Firm considers fair values of certain financial assets carried at cost Œ including

cash and due from banks,deposits with banks,securities borrowed,short-term

receivables and accrued interest receivable Œ to approximate their respective car-

rying values,due to their short-term nature and generally negligible credit risk.
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements are 

typically short-term in nature and,as such,for a significant majority of the

Firm™s transactions,cost approximates carrying value.This balance sheet item

also includes structured resale agreements and similar products with long-
dated maturities.To estimate the fair value of these instruments,cash flows

are discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity.
Trading debt and equity instruments
The Firm™s debt and equity trading instruments are carried at their 
estimatedfair value.Quoted market prices,when available,are used to determine
the fairvalue of trading instruments.
If quoted market prices are 
not available,then
fair values are estimated by using pricing models,quoted prices of instruments

with similar characteristics,or discounted cash flows.
SecuritiesFair values of actively traded securities are determined by quoted external

dealer prices,while the fair values for nonactively traded securities are based

upon independent broker quotations.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
136JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
DerivativesFair value for derivatives is determined based upon the following:
position valuation,principally based upon liquid market pricing as evidenced
by exchange-traded prices,broker-dealer quotations or related input 

parameters,which assume all counterparties have the same credit rating;
credit valuation adjustments to the resulting portfolio valuation,to reflect
the credit quality of individual counterparties;and
  other fair value adjustments to take into consideration liquidity,concentration
and other factors.
For those derivatives valued based upon models with significant unobservable
market parameters,the Firm defers the initial trading profit for these financial

instruments.The deferred profit is recognized in Trading revenue on a systematic

basis (typically straight-line amortization over the life of the instruments) and

when observable market data becomes available.
The fair value of derivative payables does not incorporate a valuation adjustment
to reflect JPMorgan Chase™s credit quality.
Interests in purchased receivables
The fair value of variable-rate interests in purchased receivables approximate

their respective carrying amounts due to their variable interest terms and 

negligible credit risk.The estimated fair values for fixed-rate interests in 

purchased receivables are determined using a discounted cash flow analysis

using appropriate market rates for similar instruments.
LoansFair value for loans is determined using methodologies suitable for each type

of loan:Fair value for the wholesale loan portfolio is estimated,primarily using the
cost of credit derivatives,which is adjusted to account for the differences

in recovery rates between bonds,upon which the cost of credit derivatives

is based,and loans.
Fair values for consumer installment loans (including automobile financings)
and consumer real estate,for which market rates for comparable loans 

are readily available,are based upon discounted cash flows adjusted for

prepayments.The discount rates used for consumer installment loans are

current rates offered by commercial banks.For consumer real estate,

secondary market yields for comparable mortgage-backed securities,

adjusted for risk,are used.
Fair value for credit card receivables is based upon discounted expected
cash flows.The discount rates used for credit card receivables incorporate

only the effects of interest rate changes,since the expected cash flows

already reflect an adjustment for credit risk.  The fair value of loans in the held-for-sale and trading portfolios is generally
based upon observable market prices and upon prices of similar instruments,

including bonds,credit derivatives and loans with similar characteristics.If

market prices are not available,the fair value is based upon the estimated cash

flows adjusted for credit risk;that risk is discounted,using a rate appropriate

for each maturity.
Other Commodities inventory is carried at the lower of cost or fair value.For the

majority of commodities inventory,fair value is determined by reference to

prices in highly active and liquid markets.The fair value for other commodities

inventory is determined primarily using pricing and data derived from the
markets on which the underlying commodities are traded.Market prices used

may be adjusted for liquidity.This caption also includes Private equity invest-

ments and MSRs.For discussion of the fair value methodology for Private

equity investments,see Note 4 on pages 98Œ99 of this Annual Report.
For discussion of the fair value methodology for retained interests related to

securitizations,see Note 14 on pages 114Œ118 of this Annual Report.
For discussion of the fair value methodology for MSRs,see Note 16 on pages
121Œ122 of this Annual Report.
Financial liabilitiesLiabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value 

SFAS 107 requires that the fair value for deposit liabilities with no stated

maturity (i.e.,demand,savings and certain money market deposits) be equal

to their carrying value.SFAS 107 does not allow for the recognition of the

inherent funding value of these instruments.
Fair value of commercial paper,other borrowed funds,accounts payable and
accrued liabilities is considered to approximate their respective carrying values

due to their short-term nature.
Interest-bearing deposits
Fair values of interest-bearing deposits are estimated by discounting cash

flows using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity.
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase
agreements

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements 

are typically short-term in nature;as such,for a significant majority of these

transactions,cost approximates carrying value.This balance sheet item also

includes structured repurchase agreements and similar products with long-dated
maturities.To estimate the fair value of these instruments,the cash flows are

discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity.
Trading liabilities
For a discussion of the fair value methodology for trading debt and equity

instruments and derivatives,see the related discussions in the Financial assets

section of this Note.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs (ﬁbeneficial interestsﬂ) are

generally short-term in nature and,as such,for a significant majority of the

Firm™s transactions,cost approximates carrying value.The Consolidated 

balance sheets also include beneficial interests with long-dated maturities.

The fair value of these instruments is based upon current market rates.
Long-term debt-related instruments
Fair value for long-term debt,including the junior subordinated deferrable interest

debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities,is based

upon current market rates and is adjusted for JPMorgan Chase™s credit quality.
Lending-related commitments
Although there is no liquid secondary market for wholesale commitments,the

Firm estimates the fair value of its wholesale lending-related commitments

primarily using the cost of credit derivatives (which is adjusted to account 

for the difference in recovery rates between bonds,upon which the cost of

credit derivatives is based,and loans) and loan equivalents (which represent

the portion of an unused commitment expected,based upon the Firm™s 

average portfolio historical experience,to become outstanding in the event an

obligor defaults).The Firm estimates the fair value of its consumer commitments

to extend credit based upon the primary market prices to originate new 

commitments.It is the change in current primary market prices that provides

the estimate of the fair value of these commitments.On this basis,at

December 31,2006,the estimated fair value of the Firm™s lending-related

commitments was a liability of $0.2 billion,compared with $0.5 billion at

December 31,2005.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
137The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of financial assets and liabilities valued under SFAS 
107;accordingly,certain assets and lia-
bilities that are not considered financial instruments are excluded from the table.
20062005Carrying EstimatedAppreciation/Carrying EstimatedAppreciation/
December 31,(in billions)valuefair value(depreciation)valuefair value(depreciation)
Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value
$150.5$150.5$Š
$155.4$155.4$Š
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
140.5140.5Š
134.0134.30.3
Trading assets
365.7365.7Š
298.4298.4Š
Securities 92.092.0Š
47.647.6Š
Loans:Wholesale,net of Allowance for loan losses
181.0184.63.6
147.7150.22.5
Consumer,net of Allowance for loan losses
294.8294.8Š
264.4262.7(1.7)
Interests in purchased receivables
ŠŠŠ
29.729.7Š
Other 61.862.40.6
53.454.71.3
Total financial assets$1,286.3$1,290.5$4.2
$1,130.6$1,133.0$2.4
Financial liabilitiesLiabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value
$259.9$259.9$Š
$241.0$241.0$Š
Interest-bearing deposits498.3498.4(0.1)
411.9411.70.2
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
162.2162.2Š
125.9125.9Š
Trading liabilities
148.0148.0Š
145.9145.9Š
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
16.216.2Š
42.242.10.1
Long-term debt-related instruments145.6147.1(1.5)
119.9120.6(0.7)
Total financial liabilities$1,230.2$1,231.8$(1.6)
$1,086.8$1,087.2$(0.4)
Net appreciation
$2.6
$2.0
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
138JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 32 Œ International operations 
The following table presents income statement information of JPMorgan
Chase by major geographic area.The Firm defines international activities as

business transactions that involve customers residing outside of the U.S.,and

the information presented below is based primarily upon the domicile of the
customer or the location from which the customer relationship is managed.
However,many of the Firm™s U.S.operations serve international businesses.
Income from continuing  operations before 
Year ended December 31,(in millions)Revenue
(b)Expense(c)income taxesNet income
2006Europe/Middle East and Africa
$11,238$7,367$3,871$2,774
Asia and Pacific
3,1442,566578400
Latin America and the Caribbean
1,328806522333
Other38124014190
Total international16,09110,9795,1123,597
Total U.S.
45,34630,57214,77410,847
Total$61,437$41,551$19,886$14,444
2005Europe/Middle East and Africa$7,549$5,379$2,170$1,547

Asia and Pacific2,8062,024782509

Latin America and the Caribbean960493467285
Other165897644
Total international
11,4807,9853,4952,385
Total U.S.42,26833,9248,3446,098
Total 
$53,748$41,909$11,839$8,483
2004(a)Europe/Middle East and Africa$6,439$4,587$1,852$1,305
Asia and Pacific2,5971,742855547

Latin America and the Caribbean812405407255
Other112773525
Total international
9,9606,8113,1492,132
Total U.S.32,41229,7052,7072,334
Total 
$42,372$36,516$5,856$4,466
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)Revenue is composed of Net interest income and Noninterest revenue.

(c)Expense is composed of Noninterest expense and Provision for credit losses.
As the Firm™s operations are highly integrated,estimates and subjective
assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and expense between
U.S.and international operations.These estimates and assumptions are 

consistent with the allocations used for the Firm™s segment reporting as set

forth in Note 33 on pages 139Œ141 of this Annual Report.
The Firm™s long-lived assets for the periods presented are not considered by
management to be significant in relation to total assets.The majority of the

Firm™s long-lived assets are located in the U.S.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
139Note 33 Œ Business segments JPMorgan Chase is organized into six major reportable business segments ŠInvestment Bank,Retail Financial Services,Card Services,Commercial Banking

(ﬁCBﬂ),Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management,as well as a

Corporate segment.The segments are based upon the products and services

provided or the type of customer served,and they reflect the manner in which

financial information is currently evaluated by management.Results of these

lines of business are presented on a managed basis.For a definition of man-

aged basis,see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP

financial measures,on pages 32Œ33 of this Annual Report.For a further discus-

sion concerning JPMorgan Chase™s business segments,see Business segment

results on pages 34Œ35 of this Annual Report.
Business segment financial disclosures
Effective January 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase modified certain of its financial dis-

closures to reflect more closely the manner in which the Firm™s business seg-

ments are managed and to provide improved comparability with competitors.

These financial disclosure revisions are reflected in this Annual Report,and the

financial information for prior periods has been revised to reflect the disclosure
changes as if they had been in effect throughout all periods reported.A sum-

mary of the changes are described below.
Reported versus Operating Basis ChangesThe presentation of operating earnings that excluded merger costs and materi-

al litigation reserve charges and recoveries from reported results has been

eliminated.These items had been excluded previously from operating results

because they were deemed nonrecurring;they are now included in the

Corporate business segment™s results.In addition,trading-related net interest

income is no longer reclassified from Net interest income to trading revenue.

As a result of these changes,effective January 1,2006,management has dis-

continued reporting on an ﬁoperatingﬂbasis.
Business Segment DisclosuresVarious wholesale banking clients,together with the related balance sheet 

and income statement items,were transferred among CB,IB and TSS.

The primary client transfer was corporate mortgage finance from CB to 

IB and TSS.
Capital allocation changesEffective January 1,2006,the Firm refined its methodology for allocating cap-

ital (i.e.,equity) to the business segments.As a result of this refinement,RFS,
CS,CB,TSS and AM have higher amounts of capital allocated to them,com-

mencing in the first quarter of 2006.The revised methodology considers for

each line of business,among other things,goodwill associated with such busi-

ness segment™s acquisitions since the Merger.In management™s view,the revised

methodology assigns responsibility to the lines of business to generate returns

on the amount of capital supporting acquisition-related goodwill.As part of this

refinement in the capital allocation methodology,the Firm assigned to the

Corporate segment an amount of equity capital equal to the then-current book

value of goodwill from and prior to the Merger.As prior periods have not been

revised to reflect the new capital allocations,capital allocated to the respective

lines of business for 2006 is not comparable to prior periods and certain busi-

ness metrics,such as ROE,are not comparable to the current presentation.The

Firm may revise its equity capital allocation methodology again in the future.
Discontinued operations

As a result of the transaction with The Bank of New York,selected corporate

trust businesses have been transferred from TSS to the Corporate segment

and reported in discontinued operations for all periods reported.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
140JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Segment results and reconciliation
(a)(table continued on next page)Year ended December 31,
(b)Investment BankRetail Financial Services
(e)Card Services(f)Commercial Banking(in millions,except ratios)
200620052004
200620052004
200620052004
200620052004
Noninterest revenue$17,778
$13,010$9,337
$4,660
$4,625$3,077
$2,944
$3,563$2,371
$1,073
$986$685
Netinterest income499
1,6033,296
10,16510,2057,714
11,80111,8038,374
2,7272,5021,593
Total net revenue18,277
14,61312,633
14,82514,83010,791
14,74515,36610,745
3,8003,4882,278
Provision for credit losses191(838)(640)
561724449
4,5987,3464,851
1607341
Credit reimbursement(to)/from TSS(c)12115490
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠNoninterest expense(d)12,3049,7498,709
8,9278,5856,825
5,0864,9993,883
1,9791,8561,326
Income (loss) from
continuing operations

before income tax expense
5,9035,8564,654
5,3375,5213,517
5,0613,0212,011
1,6611,559911
Income tax expense(benefit)
2,2292,1831,698
2,1242,0941,318
1,8551,114737
651608350
Income (loss) from
continuing operations3,674
3,6732,956
3,2133,4272,199
3,2061,9071,274
1,010951561
Income (loss) from discontinued operations ŠŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠNet income (loss)$3,674
$3,673$2,956
$3,213
$3,427$2,199
$3,206
$1,907$1,274
$1,010
$951$561
Average equity
$20,753
$20,000$17,290
$14,629
$13,383$9,092
$14,100
$11,800$7,608
$5,702
$3,400$2,093
Average assets
647,569599,761474,436
231,566226,368185,928
148,153141,93394,741
57,75452,35832,547
Return on average equity
18%18%17%
22%26%24%
23%16%17%
18%28%27%
Overhead ratio
676769
605863
343336
525358
(a)In addition to analyzing the Firm™s results on a reported basis,management reviews the Firm™s lines™ of business results on 
a ﬁmanaged basis,ﬂwhich is a non-GAAP financial measure.The Firm™s defi-
nition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S.GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that do not have any i
mpact on Net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firmas a whole.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

(c)TSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures the IB manages on behalf of clients the segments share.At the time of t
he Merger,the reimbursement methodology was revised to be based upon pretax
earnings,net of the cost of capital related to those exposures.Prior to the Merger,the credit reimbursement was based upon pret
ax earnings,plus the allocated capital associated with the shared clients.
(d)Includes Merger costs which are reported in the Corporate segment.Merger costs attributed to the business segments for 2006,
2005 and 2004 were as follows:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(b)Investment Bank$2$32$74
Retail Financial Services24133201
Card Services2922279
Commercial Banking1323
Treasury & Securities Services
1179568
Asset Management236031
Corporate
109177889
(e)Effective January 1,2006,RFS was reorganized into three businesses:Regional Banking,Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance.
(f)Managed results for CS exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on Total net revenue,Provision for credit losses an
d Average assets,as JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they
were still on the balance sheet in evaluating credit performance and the overall performance of CS™ entire managed credit card 
portfolio as operations are funded,and decisions are made about allo-
cating resources such as employees and capital,based upon managed information.These adjustments are eliminated in Reconciling i
tems to arrive at the Firm™s reported U.S.GAAP results.The related
securitization adjustments were as follows:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(b)Noninterest revenue$(3,509)
$(2,718)$(2,353)
Net interest income5,7196,4945,251
Provision for credit losses2,2103,7762,898
Average assets
65,26667,18051,084
Segment results
The following table provides a summary of the Firm™s segment results for

2006,2005 and 2004 on a managed basis.The impact of credit card securiti-

zations and tax-equivalent adjustments have been included in Reconciling

items so that the total Firm results are on a reported basis.The first six
months of 2004 reflect heritage JPMorgan ChaseŒonly results and have beenrestated to reflect the current business segment organization and reporting
classifications.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
141(table continued from previous page)Treasury &AssetReconciling
Securities ServicesManagementCorporateitems
(f)(h)Total
200620052004
200620052004
200620052004
200620052004
200620052004
$4,039
$3,659$2,973
$5,816
$4,583$3,383
$1,052
$1,620$1,983
$2,833
$2,147$2,036
$40,195
$34,193$25,845
2,0701,8801,225
9711,081796
(1,044)(2,756)(1,214)
(5,947)(6,763)(5,257)
21,24219,55516,527
6,1095,5394,198
6,7875,6644,179
8(1,136)769
(3,114)(4,616)(3,221)
61,43753,74842,372
(1)Š7(28)(56)(14)
(1)10748
(g)(2,210)(3,776)(2,898)
3,2703,4832,544
(121)(154)(90)
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ4,2664,0503,726
4,5783,8603,133
1,1415,3276,370
ŠŠŠ38,28138,42633,972
1,7231,335375
2,2371,8601,060
(1,132)(6,473)(6,349)
(904)(840)(323)
19,88611,8395,856
63347298
828644379
(1,179)(2,690)(2,661)
(904)(840)(323)
6,2373,5851,596
1,090863277
1,4091,216681
47(3,783)(3,688)
ŠŠŠ13,6498,2544,260
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ795229206
ŠŠŠ795229206
$1,090
$863$277
$1,409
$1,216$681
$842
$(3,554)$(3,482)
$Š$Š$Š
$14,444
$8,483$4,466
$2,285
$1,525$1,989
$3,500
$2,400$3,902
$49,728
$52,999$33,667
$Š$Š$Š
$110,697
$105,507$75,641
31,76028,20624,815
43,63541,59937,751
218,623162,021163,422
(65,266)(67,180)(51,084)
1,313,7941,185,066962,55648%57%14%
40%51%17%
NMNMNM
NMNMNM
13%8%6%
707389
676875
NMNMNM
NMNMNM
627180
(g)Includes $858 million of accounting policy conformity adjustments consisting of approximately $1.4 billion related to the de
certification of the seller™s retained interest in credit card securitizations,
partially offset by a benefit of $584 million related to conforming wholesale and consumer provision methodologies for the combined Firm.(h)Segment managed results reflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis with the corresponding income tax impact recorded within 
Income tax expense.These adjustments are eliminated in Reconciling
items to arrive at the Firm™s reported U.S.GAAP results.Tax-equivalent adjustments were as follows for the years ended December
 31,2006,2005 and 2004:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(b)Noninterest income$676
$571$317
Net interest income2282696
Income tax expense904840323
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
142JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Note 34 Œ Parent company
Parent company Œ statements of income
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(c)IncomeDividends from bank and bankholding company subsidiaries$2,935
$2,361$1,208
Dividends from nonbank subsidiaries(a)1,999791773
Interest income from subsidiaries3,6122,3691,370
Other interest income273209137
Other income from subsidiaries,primarily fees:
Bank and bank holding company220246833
Nonbank 739462499
Other income(206)13204
Total income9,572
6,4515,024
ExpenseInterest expense to subsidiaries(a)1,025846603
Other interest expense4,5363,0761,834
Compensation expense519369353
Other noninterest expense2954961,105
Total expense6,375
4,7873,895
Income before income tax benefit and 
undistributed net income of subsidiaries3,1971,6641,129
Income tax benefit982852556
Equity in undistributed net income (loss) of subsidiaries10,2655,9672,781
Net income$14,444
$8,483$4,466
Parent company Œ balance sheets
December 31,(in millions)
20062005AssetsCash and due from banks,primarily with  
bank subsidiaries$756
$461
Deposits with banking subsidiaries
18,7599,452Securities purchased under resale agreements,
primarily with nonbank subsidiaries
Š24Trading assets
7,9757,548Available-for-sale securities 
257285Loans971338Advances to,and receivables from,subsidiaries:
Bank and bank holding company22,76522,673Nonbank34,28231,342Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries:Bank and bank holding company119,017110,745Nonbank(a)22,55221,367Goodwill and other intangibles853804Other assets11,98310,553Total assets$240,170
$215,592
Liabilities and stockholders™ equity
Borrowings from,and payables to,subsidiaries
(a)$19,183
$16,511
Other borrowed funds,primarily commercial paper
21,01115,675Other liabilities7,6057,721Long-term debt(b)76,58168,474Total liabilities124,380
108,381Stockholders™ equity115,790
107,211Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity$240,170
$215,592
Parent company Œ statements of cash flows
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200620052004
(c)Operating activities
Net income$14,444$8,483$4,466
Less:Net income of subsidiaries
15,1999,1194,762
Parent company net loss(755)
(636)(296)
Add:Cash dividends from subsidiaries
(a)4,9342,8911,964
Other,net
(185)(130)(81)
Net cash provided by operating activities
3,9942,1251,587
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banking subsidiaries(9,307)1,2511,851
Securities purchased under resale agreements,
primarily with nonbank subsidiaries
24(24)355
Loans(633)(176)407
Advances to subsidiaries
(3,032)(483)(5,772)
Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries579(2,949)(4,015)
Other,net
(1)3411
Available-for-sale securities:
PurchasesŠ(215)(392)
Proceeds from sales and maturities 29124114
Cash received in business acquisitionsŠŠ4,608
Net cash used in investing activities(12,341)
(2,438)(2,833)
Financing activitiesNet change in borrowings from subsidiaries(a)2,6722,316941
Net change in other borrowed funds5,336625(1,510)
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt18,15315,99212,816
Repayments of long-term debt(10,557)(10,864)(6,149)
Net proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
1,659682848
Excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation 302ŠŠRedemption of preferred stock (139)(200)(670)
Treasury stock purchased
(3,938)(3,412)(738)
Cash dividends paid
(4,846)(4,878)(3,927)
Net cash provided by financing 
activities8,642
2611,611
Net increase (decrease) in cash and due from banks295(52)365
Cash and due from banks
at the beginning of the year,primarily
with bank subsidiaries461513148
Cash and due from banks at the end ofthe
year,primarily with bank subsidiaries$756
$461$513
Cash interest paid$5,485
$3,838$2,383
Cash income taxes paid
$3,599
$3,426$701
(a)Subsidiaries include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (ﬁissuer trustsﬂ).
As a result of FIN 46R,the Parent deconsolidated these trusts in 2003.The Parent received

dividends of $23 million,$21 million and $15 million from the issuer trusts in 2006,2005 and

2004,respectively.For further discussion on these issuer trusts,see Note 19 on page 125 of

this Annual Report.
(b)At December 31,2006,debt that contractually matures in 2007 through 2011 totaled $10.6
billion,$12.4 billion,$13.7 billion,$4.3 billion and $13.5 billion,respectively.
(c)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.For further discussion of the Merger,see Note 2 on pages 95Œ96 of

this Annual Report.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
143SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)(in millions,except per share,ratio and headcount data)
20062005As of or for the period ended 4th3rd2nd1st4th3rd2nd1st
Selected income statement dataNoninterest revenue$10,362$10,021$9,762$10,050
$8,804$9,482$7,616$8,291
Net interest income5,6925,3795,1784,993
4,6784,7834,9325,162
Total net revenue
16,05415,40014,94015,043
13,48214,26512,54813,453
Provision for credit losses1,134812493831
1,2241,245587427
Total noninterest expense
9,7469,6519,2369,648
8,4309,35910,7989,839
Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 
5,1744,9375,2114,564
3,8283,6611,1633,187
Income tax expense 1,2681,7051,7271,537
1,1861,192226981
Income from continuing operations (after-tax)
3,9063,2323,4843,027
2,6422,4699372,206
Income from discontinued operations (after-tax)
(a)620655654
56585758
Net income $4,526$3,297$3,540$3,081
$2,698$2,527$994$2,264
Per common share
Basic earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
$1.13$0.93$1.00$0.87
$0.76$0.71$0.27$0.63
Net income1.310.95 1.020.89
0.780.72 0.280.64
Diluted earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
1.090.90 0.980.85
0.740.700.260.62
Net income1.260.92 0.990.86
0.760.71 0.280.63
Cash dividends declared per share0.340.34 0.340.34
0.340.34 0.340.34
Book value per share
33.4532.75 31.8931.19
30.7130.26 29.9529.78
Common shares outstanding

Average:Basic
3,4653,469 3,4743,473
3,4723,4853,4933,518
Diluted 3,5793,574 3,5723,571
3,5643,5483,5483,570
Common shares at period end3,4623,468 3,4713,473
3,4873,503 3,514 3,525
Selected ratios

Return on common equity (ﬁROEﬂ)Income from continuing operations
14%11%13%11%
10%9%4%8%
Net income16121312
10949
Return on assets (ﬁROAﬂ)
Income from continuing operations
1.140.981.050.98
0.870.820.320.77
Net income1.321.00 1.061.00
0.890.840.340.79
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.78.6 8.58.5
8.58.28.28.6
Total capital ratio
12.312.1 12.012.1
12.011.311.311.9
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.26.3 5.86.1
6.36.26.26.3
Overhead ratio
6163 6264
63668673
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)
Total assets
$1,351,520$
1,338,029$1,328,001$1,273,282
$1,198,942$1,203,033$
1,171,283$1,178,305
Securities91,97586,54878,02267,126
47,60068,69758,57375,251
Loans483,127463,544455,104432,081
419,148420504416,025402,669
Deposits638,788582,115593,716584,465
554,991535,123534,640531,379
Long-term debt133,421126,619125,280112,133
108,357101,853101,18299,329
Total stockholders™ equity
115,790113,561110,684108,337
107,211106,135105,385105,340
Credit quality metrics

Allowance for credit losses
$7,803$
7,524$7,500$7,659
$7,490$
7,615$7,233$7,423
Nonperforming assets(b)2,3412,3002,3842,348
2,5902,8392,8322,949
Allowance for loan losses to total loans
(c)1.70%1.65%1.69%1.83%
1.84%1.86%1.76%1.82%
Net charge-offs$930$790$654$668
$1,360$870$773$816
Net charge-off rate
(c)0.84%0.74%0.64%0.69%
1.39%0.89%0.82%0.88%
Wholesale net charge-off (recovery) rate
(c)0.07(0.03)(0.05)(0.06)
0.07(0.12)(0.16)(0.03)
Managed Card net charge-off rate
3.453.583.282.99
6.394.704.874.83
Headcount174,360
171,589172,423170,787
168,847168,955168,708164,381
Share price
(d)High$49.00$
47.49$46.80$42.43
$40.56$
35.95$36.50$39.69
Low45.5140.4039.3337.88
32.9233.3133.3534.32
Close48.3046.9642.0041.64
39.6933.9335.3234.60
Market capitalization
167,199162,835145,764144,614
138,387118,871124,112121,975
(a)On October 1,2006,the Firm completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses including trustee,paying agent,loan
 agency and document management services for the consumer,business banking
and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York.The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses are 
being reported as discontinued operations for each of the periods presented.
(b)Excludes wholesale held-for-sale (ﬁHFSﬂ) loans purchased as part of the Investment Bank™s proprietary activities.

(c)Excluded from the allowance coverage ratios were end-of-period loans held-for-sale;and excluded from the net charge-off rate
s were average loans held-for-sale.
(d)JPMorgan Chase™s common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of JPMorgan Chase™s
common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
144JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
Selected annual financial data (unaudited)(in millions,except per share,headcount and ratio data)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only
As of or for the year ended December 31,200620052004
(e)20032002
Selected income statement dataNoninterest revenue$40,195
$34,193$25,845$19,996$17,064
Net interest income21,24219,55516,52712,80712,012
Total net revenue
61,43753,74842,37232,80329,076
Provision for credit losses3,2703,4832,5441,5404,331
Total noninterest expense
38,28138,42633,97221,49022,471
Income from continuing operations before income tax expense
19,88611,8395,8569,7732,274
Income tax expense6,2373,5851,5963,209760
Income from continuing operations 
13,6498,2544,2606,5641,514
Income from discontinued operations
(a)795229206155149
Net income $14,444
$8,483$4,466$6,719$1,663
Per common share
Basic earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
$3.93
$2.36$1.51$3.24$0.74
Net income4.162.431.593.320.81
Diluted earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
$3.82
$2.32$1.48$3.17$0.73
Net income4.042.381.553.240.80
Cash dividends declared per share1.361.361.361.361.36
Book value per share
33.4530.7129.6122.1020.66
Common shares outstanding
Average:Basic 
3,4703,4922,7802,0091,984
Diluted 3,5743,5572,8512,0552,009
Common shares at period-end3,4623,4873,5562,0431,999
Selected ratios
Return on common equity (ﬁROEﬂ):Income from continuing operations
12%8%6%15%4%
Net income1386164
Return on assets (ﬁROAﬂ):
Income from continuing operations
1.040.700.440.850.21
Net income1.100.720.460.870.23
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.78.58.78.58.2
Total capital ratio
12.312.012.211.812.0
Overhead ratio
6271806677
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)Total assets
$1,351,520
$1,198,942$1,157,248$770,912$758,800
Securities91,97547,60094,51260,24484,463
Loans483,127419,148402,114214,766216,364
Deposits638,788554,991521,456326,492304,753
Long-term debt133,421108,35795,42248,01439,751
Common stockholders™ equity115,790107,072105,31445,14541,297
Total stockholders™ equity
115,790107,211105,65346,15442,306
Credit quality metrics
Allowance for credit losses
$7,803
$7,490$7,812$4,847$5,713
Nonperforming assets(b)2,3412,5903,2313,1614,821
Allowance for loan losses to total loans
(c)1.70%1.84%1.94%2.33%2.80%
Net charge-offs$3,042
$3,819$3,099$2,272$3,676
Net charge-off rate
(c)0.73%1.00%1.08%1.19%1.90%
Wholesale net charge-off (recovery) rate
(c)(0.01)(0.06)0.180.97NA
Managed Card net charge-off rate
3.335.215.275.905.90
Headcount174,360
168,847160,96896,36797,124
Share price
(d)High $49.00
$40.56$43.84$38.26$39.68
Low37.8832.9234.6220.1315.26
Close48.3039.6939.0136.7324.00
Market capitalization
167,199138,387138,72775,02547,969
(a)On October 1,2006,the Firm completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses including trustee,paying agent,loan
 agency and document management services for the consumer,business banking
and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York.The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses are 
being reported as discontinued operations for each of the periods presented.
(b)Excludes wholesale held-for-sale (ﬁHFSﬂ) loans purchased as part of the Investment Bank™s proprietary activities.

(c)Excluded from the allowance coverage ratios were end-of-period loans held-for-sale;and excluded from the net charge-off rate
s were average loans held-for-sale.
(d)JPMorgan Chase™s common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of JPMorgan Chase™s
common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
(e)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

NA Œ Data for 2002 is not available on a comparable basis.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
145GLOSSARY OF TERMS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
ACH:
Automated Clearing House.
APB 25:Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.25.ﬁAccounting for Stock
Issued to Employees.ﬂ
Assets under management:Represent assets actively managed byAsset Management on behalf of institutional,private banking,private client

services and retail clients.Excludes assets managed by American Century

Companies,Inc.,in which the Firm has a 43% ownership interest.
Assets under supervision:Represent assets under management as well ascustody,brokerage,administration and deposit accounts.
Average managed assets:
Refers to total assets on the Firm™s balance
sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs:
Represents the interestof third-party holders of debt/equity securities,or other obligations,issued by

VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates under FIN 46R.The underlying obliga-

tions of the VIEs consist of short-term borrowings,commercial paper and

long-term debt.The related assets consist of trading assets,available-for-sale

securities,loans and other assets.
Benefit obligation:Refers to the projected benefit obligation for pensionplans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for OPEB plans.
Contractual credit card charge-off:
In accordance with the Federal
Financial Institutions Examination Council policy,credit card loans are

charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days
past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bank-
ruptcy,whichever is earlier.
Credit derivatives:
Contractual agreements that provide protection against
a credit event of one or more referenced credits.The nature of a credit event

is established by the protection buyer and protection seller at the inception 
of a transaction,and such events include bankruptcy,insolvency or failure to

meet payment obligations when due.The buyer of the credit derivative pays 

a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the 
occurrence,if any,of a credit event.
Credit cycle:
A period of time over which credit quality improves,deteriorates
and then improves again.The duration of a credit cycle can vary from a cou-

ple of years to several years.
Discontinued operations:
A component of an entity that is classified asheld-for-sale or that has been disposed of from ongoing operations in its

entirety or piecemeal,and for which the entity will not have any significant,

continuing involvement.A discontinued operation may be a separate major

business segment,a component of a major business segment or a geographi-

cal area of operations of the entity that can be separately distinguished oper-

ationally and for financial reporting purposes.
EITF:Emerging Issues Task Force.
EITF Issue 02-3:ﬁIssues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts
Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk

Management Activities.ﬂ
EITF Issue 99-20:ﬁRecognition of Interest Income and Impairment onPurchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets.ﬂ
FASB:
Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FIN 39:FASB Interpretation No.39,ﬁOffsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Contracts Œ an interpretation of APBOpinion No.10 and FASB

Statement No.105.ﬂ
FIN 41:FASB Interpretation No.41,ﬁOffsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements Œ an interpretation

of APBOpinion No.10 and a Modification of FASB Interpretation No.39.ﬂ
FIN 45:FASB Interpretation No.45,ﬁGuarantor™s Accounting and 
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees,including Indirect Guarantees of

Indebtedness of Others Œ an interpretation of FASB Statements No.5,57 and

107 and a rescission of FASB Interpretation No.34.ﬂ
FIN 46R:FASB Interpretation No.46 (revised December 2003),ﬁConsolidation
of Variable Interest Entities Œ an interpretation of ARB No.51.ﬂ
FIN 47:FASB Interpretation No.47,ﬁAccounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations Œ an interpretation of FASB Statement No.143.ﬂ
FIN 48:FASB Interpretation No.48,ﬁAccounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes Œ an interpretation of FASB Statement No.109.ﬂ
Forward points:
Represents the interest rate differential between two cur-
rencies,which is either added to or subtracted from the current exchange rate

(i.e.,ﬁspot rateﬂ) to determine the forward exchange rate.
FSP:FASB Staff Position.
FSP FIN 46(R)-6:ﬁDetermining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying
FASB Interpretation No.46(R).ﬂ
FSP FAS 123(R)-3:
ﬁTransition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax
Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards.ﬂ
FSP FAS 13-2:
ﬁAccounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing
of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease

Transaction.ﬂ
Interchange income:
A fee that is paid to a credit card issuer in the clear-ing and settlement of a sales or cash advance transaction.
Interests in purchased receivables:
Represent an ownership interest in cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables transferred by a third-party

seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity,generally a trust.
Investment-grade:
An indication of credit quality based upon JPMorganChase™s internal risk assessment system.ﬁInvestment-gradeﬂgenerally 

represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a BBB-/Baa3 or better,as

defined by independent rating agencies.
Managed basis:A non-GAAP presentation of financial results that includesreclassifications related to credit card securitizations and taxable equivalents.

Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure at the segment level
because it believes this provides information to investors in understanding the
underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business seg-

ment and facilitates a comparison of the business segment with the perform-
ance of competitors.
Managed credit card receivables:
Refers to credit card receivables on the
Firm™s balance sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Mark-to-market exposure:
A measure,at a point in time,of the value 
of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market.When the 

mark-to-market value is positive,it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan

Chase and,therefore,creates a repayment risk for the Firm.When the mark-

to-market value is negative,JPMorgan Chase owes the counterparty.In this

situation,the Firm does not have repayment risk.
Master netting agreement:
An agreement between two counterpartiesthat have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the

net settlement of all contracts through a single payment,in a single currency,

in the event of default on or termination of any one contract.See FIN 39.
146JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
MSR risk management revenue:
Includes changes in MSR asset fair value
due to inputs or assumptions in model and derivative valuation adjustments.
Material legal proceedings:
Refers to certain specific litigation originallydiscussed in the section ﬁLegal Proceedingsﬂin the Firm™s Annual Report on

Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,2002.Of such legal proceedings,

some lawsuits related to Enron,WorldCom and the IPO allocation allegations

remain outstanding as of the date of this Annual Report,as discussed in Part I,

Item 3,Legal proceedings in the Firm™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the

year ended December 31,2006,to which reference is hereby made;other such

legal proceedings have been resolved.NA:Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
The average rate for interest-
earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
NM:Not meaningful.OPEB:Other postretirement employee benefits.
Overhead ratio:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of Total net revenue.
Principal transactions:
Represents Trading revenue (which includes physical
commodities carried at the lower of cost or fair value),primarily in the IB,plus

Private equity gains (losses),primarily in the Private Equity business of

Corporate.
Reported basis:Financial statements prepared under accounting principlesgenerally accepted in the United States of America (ﬁU.S.GAAPﬂ).The report-

ed basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations,but excludes the

impact of taxable-equivalent adjustments.
Return on common equity less goodwill:Represents net income appli-cable to common stock divided by total average common equity (net of good-

will).The Firm uses return on equity less goodwill,a non-GAAP financial

measure,to evaluate the operating performance of the Firm.The Firm also

utilizes this measure to facilitate operating comparisons to other competitors.
SFAS:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS 5:
ﬁAccounting for Contingencies.ﬂ
SFAS 13:
ﬁAccounting for Leases.ﬂ
SFAS 52:
ﬁForeign Currency Translation.ﬂ
SFAS 87:
ﬁEmployers™ Accounting for Pensions.ﬂ
SFAS 88:
ﬁEmployers™ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of
Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits.ﬂ
SFAS 106:
ﬁEmployers™ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits 
Other Than Pensions.ﬂ
SFAS 107:
ﬁDisclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments.ﬂ
SFAS 109:
ﬁAccounting for Income Taxes.ﬂ
SFAS 114:
ﬁAccounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan Œ an amend-
ment of FASB Statements No.5 and 15.ﬂ
SFAS 115:
ﬁAccounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.ﬂ
SFAS 123:
ﬁAccounting for Stock-Based Compensation.ﬂ
SFAS 123R:
ﬁShare-Based Payment.ﬂ
SFAS 128:
ﬁEarnings per Share.ﬂ
SFAS 133:
ﬁAccounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.ﬂ
SFAS 138:
ﬁAccounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain
Hedging Activities Œ an amendment of FASB Statement No.133.ﬂ
SFAS 140:
ﬁAccounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities Œ a replacement of FASB Statement No.125.ﬂ
SFAS 142:
ﬁGoodwill and Other Intangible Assets.ﬂ
SFAS 143:
ﬁAccounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.ﬂ
SFAS 149:
ﬁAmendment of Statement No.133 on Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities.ﬂ
SFAS 155:
ﬁAccounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments Œ an amend-
mentof FASB Statements No.133 and 140.ﬂ
SFAS 156:
ﬁAccounting for Servicing of Financial Assets Œ an amendment of
FASB Statement No.140.ﬂ
SFAS 157:
ﬁFair Value Measurements.ﬂ
SFAS 158:
ﬁEmployers™ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans Œ an amendment of FASB Statements No.87,88,106,

and 132(R).ﬂ
SFAS 159:
ﬁThe Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities Œ Including an amendment of FASB Statement No.115.ﬂ
Staff Accounting Bulletin (ﬁSABﬂ) 107:
ﬁApplication of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No.123 (revised 2004),Share-Based Payment.ﬂ
Statement of Position (ﬁSOPﬂ) 98-1:
ﬁAccounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.ﬂ
Stress testing:
A scenario that measures market risk under unlikely but
plausible events in abnormal markets.
Transactor loan:
Loan in which the outstanding balance is paid in full bypayment due date.
Unaudited:The financial statements and information included throughout
this document,which are labeled unaudited,have not been subjected to

auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent certified public
accountant to express an opinion thereon.U.S.GAAP:
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States 
of America.U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
Obligations of theU.S.government or an instrumentality of the U.S.government whose obligations

are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and

interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S.government.
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations:
Obligations ofagencies originally established or chartered by the U.S.government to serve

public purposes as specified by the U.S.Congress;these obligations are not

explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the

full faith and credit of the U.S.government.
Value-at-risk (ﬁVARﬂ):
A measure of the dollar amount of potential lossfrom adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
147From time to time,the Firm has made and will make forward-looking state-
ments.These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate

strictly to historical or current facts.Forward-looking statements often use

words such as ﬁanticipate,ﬂﬁtarget,ﬂﬁexpect,ﬂﬁestimate,ﬂﬁintend,ﬂﬁplan,ﬂ

ﬁgoal,ﬂﬁbelieve,ﬂor other words of 
similar meaning.Forw
ard-looking state-ments provide JPMorgan Chase™s current 
expectations or forecastsof futureevents,circumstances,results or aspirations.JPMorgan Chase™s disclosures in

this report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the

Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.The Firm also may make 

forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or furnished with the

Securities and Exchange Commission (ﬁSECﬂ).In addition,the Firm™s senior

management may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts,

investors,representatives of the media and others.
All forward-looking statements are,by their nature,subject to risks and
uncertainties.JPMorgan Chase™s actual future results may differ materially

from those set forth in its forward-looking statements.Factors that could

cause this difference Œ many of which are beyond the Firm™s control Œ include

the following:local,regional and international business,political or economic

conditions;changes in trade,monetary and fiscal policies and laws;techno-

logical changes instituted by the Firm and by other entities which may affect
the Firm™s business;mergers and acquisitions,including the Firm™s ability to

integrate acquisitions;ability of the Firm to develop new products and services;
acceptance of new products and services and the ability of the Firm to
increase market share;the ability of the Firm to control expenses;competitive

pressures;changes in laws and regulatory requirements;changes in applicable

accounting policies;costs,outcomes and effects of litigation and regulatory

investigations;changes in the credit quality of the Firm™s customers;and 

adequacy of the Firm™s risk management framework.
Additional factors that may cause future results to differ materially from forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I,Item 1A:Risk Factors 

in the Firm™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,

2006,to which reference is hereby made.There is no assurance that any list

of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm speak only
as of the date they are made and JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to

update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or

events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made.The

reader should,however,consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking

nature the Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K,

Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,or Current Reports on Form 8-K.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
148JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
ÇJPMORGAN CHASE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL
Hon. George P. Shultz
Chairman of the CouncilDistinguished FellowHoover Institution 
Stanford University
Stanford, California
Riley P. Bechtel
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Bechtel Group, Inc.

San Francisco, California
Jean-Louis Beffa
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Compagnie de Saint-Gobain
Paris-La Défense, FranceHon. Bill BradleyFormer U.S. Senator
Allen & Company, LLC 

New York, New York
Michael A. ChaneyChairman
National Australia Bank Limited
Perth, Western Australia
André DesmaraisPresident and 

Co-Chief Executive Officer

Power Corporation of Canada
Montreal, Canada
Martin FeldsteinPresident and Chief Executive Officer

National Bureau of 

Economic Research, Inc.

Cambridge, MassachusettsArminio Fraga NetoFounding Partner
Gavea Investimentos, Ltd.
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Xiqing GaoVice Chairman

National Council for Social
Security Fund
Beijing, The People™s Republic 

of ChinaWilliam B. Harrison, Jr.
Former Chairman
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Carla A. HillsChairman and Chief Executive Officer

Hills & Company
Washington, D.C.
Franz B. HumerChairman and Chief Executive Officer

Roche Holding Ltd.
Basel, SwitzerlandAbdallah S. Jum™ahPresident and Chief Executive Officer

Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Dhahran, Saudi ArabiaHon. Henry A. KissingerChairman
Kissinger Associates, Inc.
New York, New York
Mustafa V. Koç
Chairman of the Board of Directors

Koç Holding A.S.
Istanbul, Turkey
Hon. Lee Kuan Yew
Minister Mentor
Republic of Singapore

Singapore 
Minoru MakiharaSenior Corporate Advisor and 
Former Chairman
Mitsubishi Corporation
Tokyo, Japan
The Rt. Hon. Brian Mulroney
Senior Partner
Ogilvy Renault
Montreal, Canada
David J. O™ReillyChairman and Chief Executive Officer

Chevron Corporation

San Ramon, California
Kai-Uwe RickeFormerChairman of the Board 

of Management 
Deutsche Telekom AG

Bonn, GermanySir John Rose
Chief Executive
Rolls-Royce plc
London, United KingdomTokyo Sexwale
Executive Chairman
Mvelaphanda Holdings Limited
Johannesburg, South AfricaJess SøderbergPartner and Chief Executive Officer

A.P. Møller-Maersk Group

Copenhagen, DenmarkRatan Naval Tata
Chairman
Tata Sons Limited

Mumbai, IndiaMarco Tronchetti Provera
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

Pirelli & C. SpA

Milan, ItalyCees J.A. van LedeFormer Chairman, 
Board of Management

Akzo Nobel
Arnhem, The Netherlands
Douglas A. Warner III
Former Chairman of the Board

J.P.Morgan Chase & Co.

New York, New York 
Ernesto Zedillo
Director

Yale Center for the Study 

of Globalization
New Haven, ConnecticutJaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala
President

Ayala Corporation

Makati City, Philippines
Ex-Officio Members
James Dimon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Andrew Crockett 
President 

JPMorgan Chase International

New York, New York
William M. DaleyChairman of the Midwest Region
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chicago, IllinoisWalter A. Gubert
Vice Chairman 

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chairman 
JPMorgan Chase EMEA
London, United KingdomJPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
149NATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD
Richard I. Beattie
ChairmanSimpson Thacher & Bartlett LLPLeon D. BlackFounding Partner
Apollo Management, L.P.
David BondermanFounding Partner
Texas Pacific Group
David A. BrandonChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Domino's Pizza, Inc.Richard J. Bressler
Managing Director and Head 

of the Strategic Resources Group

Thomas H. Lee Partners, LPEdgar Bronfman, Jr.
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Warner Music Group
Frank A. D'AmelioChief Operating Officer

Lucent Technologies
Nancy J. De LisiSenior Vice President 

of Mergers and Acquisitions
Altria Group, Inc.
David F. DeVoe
Chief Financial Officer

News CorporationWilliam T. Dillard II
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Dillard's, Inc.
Paul J. FribourgChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

ContiGroup Companies, Inc.
John B. HessChairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

Hess CorporationGlenn H. HutchinsFounding Partner
Silver Lake PartnersThomas H. LeeChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Thomas H. Lee Capital LLCDavid C. McCourtChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Granahan McCourt CapitalDarla D. Moore
Vice President

Rainwater, Inc.
Patrick J. Moore
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Smurfit-Stone Container
CorporationMichael G. MorrisChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

American Electric PowerLewis RanieriChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Ranieri & CompanyJoseph L. Rice IIIChairman
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc.David M. RubensteinManaging Director

The Carlyle Group
Stephen A. SchwarzmanChairman, Chief Executive Officer

and Co-Founder
The Blackstone Group
David L. ShedlarzVice Chairman

Pfizer Inc.Henry R. SilvermanChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Realogy CorporationBarry S. Sternlicht
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Starwood Capital Group
Doreen A. Toben
Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer

Verizon Communications
Samuel ZellChairman of the Board

Equity Group Investments, L.L.C.
Mortimer B. ZuckermanChairman
Boston Properties, Inc.
James B. Lee, Jr. 
Chairman 
National Advisory Board 
Philip C. AckermanChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

National Fuel Gas CompanyRichard A. Bernstein
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

R.A.B. Holdings, Inc.Rod BraymanPresident

Windmill Distributing Company L.P.
Robert B. CatellChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

KeySpanChristopher B. CombeChairman and President

Combe IncorporatedEugene R. CorasantiChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

CONMED CorporationEmil DudaSenior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Lifetime Healthcare

Company/Excellus Health Plan Inc.James Fernandez
Executive Vice President and CFO

Tiffany & Company
Lewis GolubChairman of the Board

The Golub CorporationWallace A. Graham
Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

SI Group, Inc.
Tod Johnson
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

The NPD Group, Inc.
Peter J. KalletChairman, President 

and Chief Executive Officer

Oneida Ltd.Charles A. KrasnePresident and 

Chief Executive Officer

Krasdale Foods, Inc.Richard W. Kunes
Executive Vice President, 

Chief Financial Officer

The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.Richard S. LeFrak
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

LeFrak OrganizationRichard B. Leventhal
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Fedway Associates, Inc.Leo LiebowitzChief Executive Officer

Getty Realty Corp.William L. MackFounder and Senior Partner
Apollo Real Estate Advisors L.P.
Peter MarksonChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Paris Accessories, Inc.John MorphySenior Vice President, 

Chief Financial Officer 

and Secretary

Paychex, Inc.Michael C. NahlExecutive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Albany International Corp.
James L. NederlanderPresident

Nederlander Producing Company 

of America, Inc.Samuel I. Newhouse IIIGeneral Manager
Advance Publications Inc.William C. RudinPresident

Rudin Management Company, Inc.
Joel SeligmanPresident

University of RochesterJohn ShalamChairman
Audiovox CorporationArthur T. Shorin
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

The Topps Company, Inc.
Marie Toulantis
Chief Executive Officer

Barnes & Noble.com
Kenneth L. Wallach
Chairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Central National-Gottesman Inc.Fred Wilpon
Chairman
Sterling Equities, Inc.Frank Lourenso 
Chairman 
Regional Advisory Board
REGIONAL ADVISORY BOARD
COMMUNITY ADVISORY BOARD
Sharon Alexander-Holt
Chief Executive Officer
The Urban League 
of Metropolitan Denver, Inc.

Denver, CO
Lauren Anderson
Executive Director

Neighborhood Housing 
Services of New Orleans
New Orleans, LAPolly BacaCEO/Executive Director

Latin American Research and

Service Agency
Denver, CO
Dionne BagsbyRetired Commissioner

Tarrant County

Fort Worth, TX
Salvador BalcortaChief Executive Officer

Centro de Salud Familiar La Fe, Inc.

El Pasco, TXFrank Ballesteros
Chief Administrative Officer

PPEP Microbusiness & Housing

Development Corp.
Tucson, AZ
Eli BarbosaDirector of Neighborhood

Reinvestment
Latin United Community Housing
Association
Chicago, ILRev. Henry Barlow
Christ Tabernacle Baptist Church

Chicago, ILJanie Barrera
President/CEO

ACCION Texas

San Antonio, TXShaun BellePresident/CEO

The Mt. Hope Housing Company
Bronx, NY
Pascual BlancoExecutive Director

La Fuerza Unida de Glen Cove
Glen Cove, NYSylvia Brooks
President/CEO

Houston Area Urban League

Houston, TXDonnie Brown
Executive Director

Genesis Housing Development Corp.
Chicago, ILJames BuckleyExecutive Director

University Neighborhood Housing
Program

Bronx, NY
Joseph CarbonePresident/CEO

The WorkPlace, Inc.

Bridgeport, CTDavid ChenExecutive Director

Chinese American Planning Council
New York, NY
William ClarkPresident/CEO

Urban League of Rochester
Rochester, NY
Ricardo Diaz
Executive Director

United Community Center
Milwaukee, WIPeter ElkowitzPresident

Long Island Housing Partnership
Hauppauge, NYIgnacio EstebanExecutive Director

Florida Community Loan Fund
Orlando, FLRon Fafoglia Executive Director

TSP Hope, Inc
Springfield, ILMelissa Flournoy
President/CEO

The Louisiana Association of
Nonprofit Organizations

Baton Rouge, LAWilliam Frey
Vice President/Director

Enterprise Foundation NYC Office

New York, NY
Reuben GantExecutive Director

Greenwood Community

Development Corp.
Tulsa, OK
Reginald GatesPresident/CEO

Dallas Black Chamber of Commerce

Dallas, TXSarah Gerecke
Chief Executive Officer

Neighborhood Housing 
Services of NYC
New York, NY
Christie GillespieExecutive Director

Indiana Assoc. for Community
Economic Development
Indianapolis, INDina GonzalezFormer President

West Michigan Hispanic Chamber

of Commerce

Muskegon, MIErnest Gonzalez
Corporate Committee Chair
Long Island Hispanic Chamber 
of Commerce

West Islip, NY
Bruce GottschallExecutive Director

Neighborhood Housing 
Services of Chicago, Inc.
Chicago, ILColvin GrannumPresident/CEO

Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration

Corp.
Brooklyn, NY
Meg HallerChief Executive Officer

Gary Citywide Development Corp.
Gary, IN
Roy HastickPresident/CEO

Caribbean American Chamber 
of Commerce & Industry

Brooklyn, NY
Norman HenryExecutive Director

Builders of Hope Community
Development Corp.
Dallas, TXRalph Hollmon President/CEO 

Milwaukee Urban League, Inc.
Milwaukee, WIKevin Jackson Executive Director 

Chicago Rehab Network 
Chicago, ILKim Jacobs Executive Director 

Community Capital Resources 

Hawthorne, NY
Rev. Manson Johnson
Holman Street Baptist Church

Houston, TXErma Johnson-Hadley Vice Chancellor for Administration

Tarrant County College District 

Fort Worth, TX
Amy Klaben President/CEO 

Columbus Housing Partnership, Inc.
Columbus, OHJames Klein Executive Director 

Ohio Community Development
Finance Fund 
Columbus, OHChristopher Kui Executive Director 

Asian Americans for Equality 
New York, NY
Rhonda Lewis  President/CEO 

Bridge Street Development Corp.

Brooklyn, NY
Msgr. William Linder 
Founder 
New Community Corporation 
Newark, NJRev. Fred Lucas 
President/CEO 

Faith Center for Community
Development 
New York, NY
Norm Lyons 
Community Development Corp.
Chair 
One Hundred Black Men 

of Greater Dallas 

Arlington, TXRichard Manson 
Vice President 

Local Initiatives Support Corporation
New York, NY
Maria Matos Executive Director 

Latin American Community Center
Wilmington, DE
Christie McCravy Director of Homeownership

Programs

The Housing Partnership, Inc.
Louisville, KYLuis Miranda Chairman 
Audubon Partnership for Economic
Development 
New York, NY
Marlon Mitchell Executive Director 

Houston Business Development, Inc.
Houston, TXAndrew J. Mooney 
Senior Program Director 

Local Initiatives Support Corporation
Chicago, ILRandy Moore 
Executive Director 

Community Works in 

West Virginia, Inc. 

Charleston, WVGilbert Moreno 
President 

Association for the Advancement
of Mexican Americans
Houston, TXVincent Murray 
Executive Director 

Bagley Housing Association, Inc. 
Detroit, MI
150JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
151Joe Myer Executive Director 
NCALL Research 

Dover, DE
Jeremy Nowak 
President/CEO 

The Reinvestment Fund 
Philadelphia, PA
Claudia O'Grady Executive Director 

Multi-Ethnic Development Corp. 
Salt Lake City, UT
David Pagan Executive Director 

Southside United Housing
Development Fund Corp. 
Brooklyn, NY
James Paley Executive Director 

Neighborhood Housing Services 
of New Haven 
New Haven, CTJohn Parvensky President 

Colorado Coalition for 
the Homeless 
Denver, CO
John Pritscher President 

Community Investment Corp. 
Chicago, ILKerry Quaglia Executive Director 

Home Headquarters, Inc.
Syracuse, NYEdwin Reed Chief Financial Officer 

Greater Allen Cathedral of NY  

Jamaica, NYKathy Ricci Executive Director 

Utah Micro-Enterprise Loan Fund 

Salt Lake City, UT
Gwen Robinson President/CEO 

Hamilton County Community
Action Agency
Cincinnati, OHMarcos Ronquillo
Managing Partner/President

Godwin Pappas Langley Ronquillo,
LLP
Dallas, TXClifford Rosenthal 
Executive Director 

National Federation of Community
Development Credit Unions 

New York, NY
Winston Ross Executive Director 

Westchester Community

Opportunity Program 

Elmsford, NY
David Scheck Executive Director 

NJ Community Capital Corp. 
Trenton, NJ
Doris Schnider President 

Delaware Community 

Investment Corp. 
Wilmington, DE
Shirley Stancato President/CEO 

New Detroit, Inc. 

Detroit, MI
Thomas Stone Executive Director 

Mt. Pleasant Development Now 
Cleveland, OHRev. Benjamin Thomas, Sr.  
Tanner AME 

Phoenix, AZValerie Thompson 
President/CEO 

Urban League of Greater 

Oklahoma City 
Oklahoma City, OK
Carlisle Towery 
President 

Greater Jamaica Development

Corp. 
Jamaica, NYMargaret Trahan 
President/CEO 

United Way of Acadiana 

Lafayette, LARev. Terry Troia 
Executive Director 

Project Hospitality 

Staten Island, NYRev. Reginald Tuggle
Memorial Presbyterian Church

Roosevelt, NYMark VanBrunt 
Executive Director

Raza Development Fund
Phoenix, AZDonna Wertenbach 
President/CEO 

Community Economic 
Development Fund 
West Hartford, CT
Lloyd Williams President/CEO 

Greater Harlem Chamber of

Commerce 

New York, NY
Ravi Yalamanchi 
Chief Executive Officer 

Metro Housing Partnership 

Flint, MIDiana Yazzie-Devine 
President 

Native American Connections 
Phoenix, AZCOMMUNITY ADVISORY BOARD
(continued)152JPMorgan Chase & Co./2006 Annual Report
John H. Biggs1,3Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Teachers Insurance 

and Annuity Association-
College Retirement

Equities Fund (TIAA-CREF) 
(Pension fund)Crandall C. Bowles1,4Co-Chairman and 
Co-Chief Executive Officer 

Springs Global US, Inc. and 
Springs Global Participacoes S.A.
and Chairman
Springs Industries, Inc.
(Home furnishing)
Stephen B. Burke2,3President

Comcast Cable 
Communications, Inc.
(Cable television)James S. Crown
4,5President

Henry Crown and Company 

(Diversified investments)James Dimon Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

JPMorgan Chase & Co.Ellen V. Futter
4,5President and Trustee

American Museum of 
Natural History 
(Museum)William H. Gray, III
2,4Chairman
Amani Group

(Consulting and advisory)Laban P. Jackson, Jr.
1,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Clear Creek Properties, Inc.

(Real estate development)John W. Kessler
2,4Owner
John W. Kessler Company 

and Chairman
The New Albany Company
(Real estate development)Robert I. Lipp4,5Senior Advisor
JPMorgan Chase & Co.Richard A. Manoogian
1,4Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Masco Corporation
(Diversified manufacturer)
David C. Novak2,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Yum! Brands, Inc.

(Franchised restaurants)
Lee R. Raymond2,3Retired Chairman and 

Chief Executive Officer

Exxon Mobil Corporation 
(Oil and gas)William C. Weldon
2,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer 

Johnson & Johnson
(Health care products)
James Dimon*Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Gaby A.Abdelnour
Asia PacificPaul T. Bateman
Asset ManagementAnthony J. Best
Investment BankFrank J. Bisignano
*Chief Administrative Officer
Steven D.Black
*Investment Bank Philip F. Bleser
Commercial Banking
John F. Bradley
*Human Resources
Douglas L. BraunsteinInvestment BankClive S. Brown
Asset ManagementRichard M. Cashin
One Equity PartnersMichael J. Cavanagh
*Finance Michael K. ClarkWorldwide Securities Services
Andrew D.Crockett
JPMorgan Chase International
Stephen M. Cutler
*Legal & ComplianceWilliam M. Daley
Midwest RegionKimberly B. Davis
Philanthropy
Klaus DiederichsInvestment BankIna R. Drew
*Chief Investment Officer 
Patrik L. EdsparrInvestment BankMary E. Erdoes
Private Bank Joseph M. Evangelisti
Corporate CommunicationsMartha J. Gallo
AuditWalter A.Gubert
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Evelyn E. Guernsey
Asset ManagementCarlos M. Hernandez
Investment BankLorraine E. Hricik
Treasury Services
Rick LazioGovernment Affairs & Public Policy
James B. Lee,Jr.
Investment BankDave LowmanHome LendingSteve MacLellanPrivate Client ServicesSamuel Todd Maclin
*Commercial Banking
Achilles O. Macris
Chief Investment Office
Jay Mandelbaum*Strategy  Blythe S.Masters
Investment BankDonald H.McCree, III
Investment BankHeidi Miller*Treasury & Securities Services 
Melissa J. Moore
Treasury Services
Stephanie B. Mudick
Retail Financial ServicesNicholas P. O'Donohoe
Investment BankDaniel E. Pinto
Investment BankScott E. Powell
Consumer BankingCharles W. Scharf
*Retail Financial ServicesMarc Sheinbaum
Auto & Education FinanceRichard J. Srednicki
*Card Services
James E. Staley
*Asset ManagementWilliam S. Wallace
Card Services
Kevin P. Watters
Business BankingWilliam T. Winters
*Investment BankMember of:
1.Audit Committee2.Compensation & Management Development Committee3.Corporate Governance & 
Nominating Committee4.Public Responsibility Committee5.Risk Policy CommitteeBOARDOF DIRECTORSEXECUTIVE COMMITTEE(*denotes member of Operating Committee)
Anthony J. Horan
Secretary
Mark I. Kleinman
Treasurer
Louis RauchenbergerController  
OTHER CORPORATE OFFICERS
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.Corporate headquarters
270 Park Avenue
New York,New York 10017-2070

Telephone:212-270-6000

http://www.jpmorganchase.com
Principal subsidiariesJPMorgan Chase Bank,National AssociationChase Bank USA,National AssociationJ.P.Morgan Securities Inc.
Annual report on Form 10-K
The Annual Report on Form 10-K of 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.as filed with the

Securities and Exchange Commission 
will be made available upon request to:
Office of the SecretaryJPMorgan Chase & Co.

270 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10017-2070
Stock listingNew York Stock Exchange,Inc.
London Stock Exchange Limited
Tokyo Stock Exchange
The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
ticker symbol for the Common Stock 

of JPMorgan Chase & Co.is JPM.
Certifications by the Chairman and ChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial Officer

of JPMorgan Chase & Co.pursuant to Section

302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,have

been filed as exhibits to the Firm's 2006

Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The NYSE requires that the Chief Executive
Officer of a listed company certify annually
that he or she was not aware of any violation

by the company of the NYSE's 
CorporateGovernance listing standards.Such 
certificationwas made on June 14,2006.
Financial information about JPMorgan Chase
& Co.can be accessed by visiting the Investor

Relations site of www.jpmorganchase.com.

Additional questions should be addressed to:Investor RelationsJPMorgan Chase & Co.

270 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10017-2070

Telephone:212-270-6000
Direct deposit of dividends
For information about direct deposit of 
dividends,please contact Mellon Investor

Services LLC.Stockholder inquiriesContact Mellon Investor Services LLCBy telephone:  Within the United States,Canada and 
Puerto Rico:1-800-758-4651 

(toll-free)From all other locations:
1-201-680-6645 (collect) TDD service for the hearing impaired within the United States,Canada and 

Puerto Rico:1-800-231-5469 (toll-free) 
All other locations:1-201-680-6645 (collect)By mail:Mellon Investor Services LLC
480 Washington Blvd.

Jersey City,New Jersey 07310-1900
Duplicate mailingsIf you receive duplicate mailings because you have more than one 
account listing and you wish to 
consolidate your accounts,please 
write to Mellon Investor Services LLC 
at the address above.
Independent registered public
accounting firmPricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
300 Madison Avenue

New York,New York 10017
Directors
To contact any of the Board members or
committee chairs,the Presiding Director,or

the non-management directors as a group,

please mail correspondence to:JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Attention (Board member(s))

Office of the Secretary
270 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10017-2070
The Corporate Governance Principles 
of the Board,the charters of the principal 

Board committees,the Code of Conduct 

and the Code of Ethics for Finance

Professionals and other governance 
information can be accessed by visiting
www.jpmorganchase.com and clicking on

ﬁGovernance.ﬂStockholders may request 

a copy of such materials by writing to the
Office of the Secretary at the above address.
Transfer agent and registrar
Mellon Investor Services LLC480 Washington Blvd.

Jersey City,New Jersey 07310-1900

Telephone:1-800-758-4651

https://vault.melloninvestor.com/isd
Investor Services Program 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s 
Investor ServicesProgram offers a variety of convenient,low-

cost services to make it easier to reinvest 

dividends and buy and sell shares of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.common stock.A
brochure and enrollment materialsmay be

obtained by contacting the Program
Administrator,Mellon Investor Services LLC,

by calling 1-800-758-4651,by writing them

at the address indicated above or by visiting
their Web site at www.melloninvestor.com.
This annual report is printed on paper made from 
well-managed forests and other controlled sources.

The paper is independently certified by SmartWood,

a program of the Rainforest Alliance,to the Forest

Stewardship Council (FSC) standards.The paper contains

20% post-consumer waste (PCW) recycled fibers.
FSC is an independent nonprofit organization devoted to encouraging responsible management of the world™s

forests.FSC sets high standards to ensure forestry is 

practiced in an environmentally responsible,socially 

beneficial and economically viable way.
©2007 JPMorgan Chase & Co.All rights reserved.

Printed in the U.S.A.
20%
Cert no.  SW-COC-1576
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(NYSE:JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $1.4 trillion 
and operations in more than 50 countries.The firm is a leader in investment banking,financial services for

consumers,small business and commercial banking,financial transaction processing,asset management 

and private equity.A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average,JPMorgan Chase serves millions 

of consumers in the United States and many of the world™s most prominent corporate,institutional and 

government clients under its JPMorgan and Chase brands.
Information about JPMorgan capabilities can be found at www.jpmorgan.com and about Chase capabilities 
at www.chase.com.Information about the firm is available at www.jpmorganchase.com.
As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share,ratio and headcount data)
20062005Reported basis(a)Total net revenue 
$61,437
$53,748
Provision for credit losses  3,270 3,483Total noninterest expense 
38,28138,426Income from continuing operations13,6498,254Net income$14,444
$8,483
Per common share:Basic earnings per shareIncome from continuing operations$3.93
$2.36
Net income4.162.43Diluted earnings per shareIncome from continuing operations$3.82
$2.32
Net income4.042.38Cash dividends declared per share1.361.36Book value per share
33.4530.71Return on common equityIncome from continuing operations12%8%Net income138Return on common equity (net of goodwill)Income from continuing operations20%13%Net income2214Tier 1 capital ratio 
8.78.5Total capital ratio           
12.312.0Total assets 
$1,351,520
$1,198,942
Loans                     
483,127419,148Deposits                  
638,788554,991Total stockholders™ equity              
115,790107,211Headcount174,360168,847(a) Results are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTSJPMC_cvr_030807.qxp  3/19/2007  2:25 PM  Page 2JPMORGAN CHASE& CO.
www.jpmorganchase.com
