leadership2001 Annual Report
Our proposition is simple and powerful: J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 
has unparalleled client reach, global scope and leadership across a wide

range of product capabilities. This will enable us to participate in the 

long-term growth of the global financial markets in a way few firms can.

Our goal is to create sustainable growth in earnings and shareholder

value from this unique market position. We intend to do this by 

deploying the knowledge and skills of our people, harnessing the power

of technology, leveraging the strength of our brands, and remaining 

disciplined financial and risk managers.1Financial highlights2To our shareholders
6Directors and officers
7Leadership22Financial table of contents24 ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
65Consolidated financial statements69Notes to consolidated financial statements102Advisory boards
107International locations
108Corporate data at a glance >>In millions (except ratios)
20012000Operating revenue
$14,899$15,963Cash operating earnings
2,9453,486Cash overhead ratio
60%63%Investment BankBusiness focusJPMorgan is one of the worldÕs premier investment
banks as measured by client franchise,product

breadth,geographic reach and size.At the center of

its business model are its extensive client relation-
ships with corporations,financial institutions,

governments and institutional investors.
The firm provides clients with a full range of
investment banking and commercial banking 
products:offering advice on corporate strategy and

structure,raising and placing capital,making markets

in financial instruments and offering sophisticated
risk management services.
The Investment Bank is global in scope withoffices in more than 60 countries and derives approx-

imately 45% of its revenues from outside the U.S.

Such breadth enables the firm to offer clients truly
individualized solutions synthesizing industry knowl-
edge,product proficiency and geographic expertise.
Leadership positions¥Awarded ÒBank of the Year.Ó
¥Named ÒLoan House of the Year.Ó
¥Named ÒEmerging Market Bond House of the Year.Ó
¥No.1 in global syndicated loans.
¥Named ÒEuropean Equity-Linked House of the Year.Ó
¥No.1 in Latin American debt.
¥No.1 in European cross-border M&A,No.2 European
M&A,No.2 Germany M&A and No.1 Spain M&A 

(completed advisory).¥No.2 in global bonds,global investment grade bonds,
U.S.domestic bonds and Yankee bonds.
¥Awarded ÒWorld's Best Debt House.Ó
¥Awarded ÒDerivatives House of the Year.Ó
¥Named ÒBest overall foreign currency provider.Ó
¥Top foreign exchange bank (market share pro forma).
¥No.5 in global M&A (announced advisory).¥No.2 Asia/Pacific advisory (announced and completed).
¥15 Institutional Investor-ranked ÒAll AmericaÓ
equity research analysts.
¥No.3 in European convertible securities.
The merger of The Chase ManhattanCorporation and J.P. Morgan & Co.

Incorporated was completed in
December 2000, combining one of 
the world's largest commercial banks

with one of the most respected and

influential investment banking institu-
tions. Additionally, the merger united

two powerful financial institutions
with remarkable histories reaching

back over 200 years. Both firms have
played formative roles in the develop-

ment of New York City, the growth of

the modern American economy and

global finance. Our mission today 
is to create exceptional value for our

clients, shareholders and employees

by delivering our deep, broad and

integrated global capabilities. In millions (except ratios)
20012000Operating revenue
$3,632$3,564Cash operating earnings
693693Cash overhead ratio
71%70%Treasury & Securities ServicesJPMorgan Treasury & Securities Services is a global
leader in delivering financial information and trans-

action processing services to corporations,financial

institutions and government entities around the
world.JPMorgan has top rankings in all major prod-

ucts:cash management,treasury,custody,investor

and institutional trust services.
Clients are served through three businesses.
JPMorgan Institutional Trust Services is the number

one trustee for all U.S.debt issues.The business pro-

vides a range of fiduciary services to debt and equity

issuers and various intermediaries in the global capi-

tal markets.JPMorgan Investor Services is one of the

Òbig threeÓcustodians globally,with $6.5 trillion in

assets under custody.The business also offers a full

range of related services for institutional investors,
such as securities lending and investment analytics
and reporting.JPMorgan Treasury Services is the

largest provider of U.S.dollar payments globally,

processing nearly $1.9 trillion in funds transfers daily.

The business offers products to meet the cash management,payments processing,liquidity and

trade finance needs of its global client base.
¥No.1 in U.S.dollar clearing and commercial payments.
¥No.1 trustee for all U.S.debt issues.
¥No.1 custodian in the world in Euromoneyannual survey.
¥No.1 in transaction services in North America in
Euromoneyannual survey.
¥No.1 in CHIPS,Fedwire,ACH origination and U.S.dollar
book transfer volume.
¥No.1 in orders of merit from Global Investorclient satisfaction survey.
¥No.1 in issuing and paying agent services for U.S.
commercial paper.
¥No.1 trustee for securitized debt products globally.¥No.1 U.S.provider of euro clearing and commercial 
payments.
¥Leadership franchise serving 60% of the 
Fortune1000and 100% of the top 50 global banks.
In millions (except ratios)
20012000Operating revenue
$3,085$3,362Cash operating earnings
467567Cash overhead ratio
81%75%In millions (except ratios)
20012000Operating revenue
$(1,457)$789Cash operating earnings
(1,148)258Cash overhead ratio
NM51%NM Ð Not meaningfulIn millions (except ratios)
20012000Operating revenue
$10,915$10,176Cash operating earnings
1,6881,785Cash overhead ratio
50%52%JPMorgan Fleming is a global asset manager provid-ing financial expertise to governments,corporations,

endowments,foundations and individuals in Europe,

the Middle East,Japan,Asia and the Americas.

We offer our clients a full range of solutions in cash
management,currency,equity and fixed income,

and alternative investments such as private equity,

hedge funds and real estate.Recognized as one of

the worldÕs most trusted and highly regarded asset 

managers,we deliver excellence in investment 

performance,global solutions and client service.
JPMorgan Private Bank is a global leader providing
advice,customized solutions,and unparalleled client

service to wealthy individuals and families around the
world.Uniting all of the capabilities of a commercial

bank,a trust company,an asset manager,a broker

dealer and an investment bank onto one platform,
we can meet virtually every clientÕs unique situation

utilizing a broad array of wealth management 

solutions.For over 150 years,our comprehensive 

and integrated approach,commitment to innovation

and integrity,and client focus have made us the 

pre-eminent global private bank.
¥No.1 private bank in the U.S.
¥No.1 fund management group in Asia over three and 
five years.
¥No.1 ranked fund management research in Japan.
¥No.2 most widely recognized fund brand name in
Europe.
¥No.2 largest private bank in the world.
¥No.4 largest asset manager in the U.S.
¥One of the top five asset managers worldwide.
¥Relationships with nearly 60% of the individuals listedin the Forbes400 U.S.list.
¥Relationships with nearly 40% of the individuals listed on the Forbesbillionaires global list.¥Morgan OnLine,the Private BankÕs proprietary Internet
tool,selected as Best of the Web FAVORITE 

(Forbes).Investment Management & Private BankingRetail & Middle Market Financial ServicesJPMorgan Partners (JPMP) is the firmÕs principal 
vehicle for private equity investing.The business 

provides equity and mezzanine capital financing to
companies around the world throughout their entire
life cycle.With $31 billion in total capital under 

management,JPMorgan Partners invests in a broad

range of industries,including life sciences/healthcare
infrastructure,industrial,telecommunications,media

and technology,and financial services.JPMorgan

PartnersÕ global integrated network,composed of its
nine offices,industry practice groups,portfolio 

companies and JPMorgan Chase industry specialists,

provides a number of competitive advantages.

Through this network,JPMP is well-positioned to adapt
to changes and opportunities in the marketplace.
During its 18-year history,JPMorgan Partners has
consistently produced a record of superior financial
returns,over multiple business cycles and widely 

varying conditions in the capital markets,and 
is recognized as one of the most successful private

equity organizations in the world.Retail & Middle Market Financial Services focuses 
on consumers,small businesses and middle market

customers.Serving more than 30 million customers in

the U.S.,the business offers a wide range of banking,

credit,investment,and financing products and services

through multiple distribution channels,including

branches,ATMs,telephone and Internet banking.
Nationwide,these businesses are a leading
provider of mortgages,credit cards and auto loans.

JPMorgan Chase is a leading full-service bank for
consumers in our four-state footprint,which encom-

passes New York,New Jersey,Connecticut and Texas.

We also maintain a strong competitive advantage 
in serving middle market companies and small 

businesses in the New York tri-state area and Texas.
The firm continues to strengthen the communitiesit serves by expanding access to capital and by 
leveraging the many resources of the company.
¥The largest private equity group in the world.
¥Innovative approach to private equity investing through
its global integrated network.
¥Industry specialists in telecommunications,media &
technology;life sciences & healthcare;industrial;con-

sumer retail & services;financial services & real estate.
¥Global presence with nine offices worldwide;investments in over 30 countries.
¥Strong linkages to the global network and capabilitiesof JPMorgan Chase.
¥More than 1,800 direct equity and mezzanine transactions closed since inception.
¥Seats on the board of directors in over 550 diversifiedportfolio companies enabling JPMorgan Chase to act as
a strategic partner,not only as an investor.
¥No.1 primary relationship bank (based on deposits) in the New York tri-state region.
¥No.1 full-service bank for small businesses in the New York tri-state area.
¥Fifth largest domestic credit card issuer.
¥No.1 credit card merchant processor through joint venture with First Data Corp.
¥No.2 originator of residential mortgage loans in theU.S.,with more than $184 billion originated in 2001.¥No.3 mortgage servicer in the U.S.
¥No.1 non-captive national provider of auto loans andleases,with $20 billion originated in 2001.
¥No.1 in lead share for middle market companies in the
New York tri-state area.
¥Middle market relationship managers rated best in the
business (McKinsey & Company benchmarking study).¥Brown & Company,JPMorgan ChaseÕs deep discount
broker for experienced investors,ranked No.2 in overall 

customer satisfaction and No.1 in the Affluent Investor

segment in the 2001 J.D.Power and Associates Online

Investing Survey.
JPMorgan Partnersfinancial highlightsAs of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
200120001999
Reported basisRevenue $29,050$32,934$30,930
Noninterest expense (excluding restructuring costs)20,77621,39317,972
Merger and restructuring costs
2,5231,43123
Provision for loan losses3,1851,3771,446
Net income1,6945,7277,501
Net income per share:Basic0.832.993.87
Diluted0.802.863.69
Cash dividends declared per share
1.361.281.08
Total assets693,575715,348667,003
Total stockholdersÕ equity
41,09942,33835,056
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.3%8.5%8.5%
Total capital ratio
11.912.012.3
Tier 1 leverage
5.25.45.9
Operating basis
(a)Revenue $30,098$32,793$31,695
Earnings3,4095,9277,433
Earnings per share Ñ diluted 1.652.963.65
Cash operating basis
(b)Earnings$4,138$6,455$7,762
Cash earnings per share Ñ diluted 2.013.233.82
Cash return on average common equity
9.81%17.58%23.25%
Shareholder value added
$(911)$2,018$3,704
(a) Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations,merger and restructuring costs,special items 
and the net effect of a change in accounting principle.
(b) In addition to (a) above,it excludes the impact of the amortization of intangibles.
2JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
to our shareholders
ÒEven though we are going
through one of the most

difficult environments 

in recent times, I have

never been more confident

in the future of the firm.Ó
It was a challenging year for most companies, including ourown. The economy, already weak at the outset of the year, fell

into a full-fledged recession in the spring. Then came the tragedy

of September 11. This tested the strength and resilience of the

international financial system. While financial institutions, 

including our firm, passed the test with flying colors, subsequent
events, including the collapse of Enron, undermined confidence

in financial markets and raised serious questions about the
integrity of accounting practices.Despite these challenges, over the course of 2001, we continued to build and enhance the competitiveness of the newly
created JPMorgan Chase. I am pleased to report that:
¥ We moved with great speed and purpose in executing a
massive and complex merger, melding two great organiza-

tions into one. Our employee polls show a tremendous level

of internal support for the new firm.
¥ In the midst of a massive merger integration effort, we
gained share in most of our client and product activities,

including global mergers and acquisitions, the origination of
bond issues, loan syndications and derivatives. In doing so,
we demonstrated the value of our expanded franchise to
clients in the face of difficult and volatile market conditions.
¥ We aggressively reduced expenses and increased our goal
for merger-related cost savings from $2.0 billion to 

$3.8 billion. By the end of 2001, we had captured more

than three-quarters of our expected savings.
Nevertheless, our 2001 results were disappointing. Combined
with declining stock markets and a sharp reduction in the volume

of mergers and acquisitions and initial public offerings, the 

recession made for a weak revenue environment for our invest-
ment banking, asset management and custody businesses. 
In addition, we had substantial losses in JPMorgan Partners, our 
private equity business. Lastly, there was an overall decline in

credit quality in 2001, affecting both commercial and consumer

credit. All of these factors weighed heavily on our results in 2001

and will most likely extend into 2002. We are dealing with all the issues in front of us, and we 
are doing so from a position of considerable strength. Our cash

operating return on equity in 2001 was 10% Ñ well below our

target. Excluding the losses in JPMorgan Partners, historically a
very profitable business, our cash operating return on equity was

a more respectable 15%. Our Tier 1 capital ratio at year-end was

8.3% Ñ well above the Federal ReserveÕs standard for a Òwell-

capitalizedÓ institution. Finally, the credit performance of our

loan portfolio, both commercial and consumer, held up 

better than industry averages. At year-end, nonperforming assets

represented about 10% of equity, better than most of our peers.
By contrast, the comparable ratio for certain of our predecessor
IJPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
3institutions in the early 1990s, the last recession in the U.S., 
was more than 100%. In addition, commercial loan charge-offs

against loans outstanding were 87 basis points in 2001, 

compared with 101 basis points for our peer group.
As we move beyond the current difficult credit cycle, there 
is much opportunity for improvement. Continuing progress in

reducing costs and increasing productivity will result in a higher
proportion of revenues flowing to the bottom line. We expect

our private equity business, which historically has generated 
outstanding returns, to return to profitability. We have realigned

this business to reduce and diversify our risk by creating new 

private equity funds that enable us to invest our capital alongside
our clients.Our firm brings together an extraordinary breadth of 
capabilities Ñ in investment banking, operating services, privatedelivery. We also believe that our diversified business model, 
combining wholesale and consumer financial services, will give us
more growth opportunity and earnings stability over time.
Let me begin with our global investment banking business,which accounts for nearly half of our total revenues, because the

strategic landscape in this area could not be any clearer. The

number of full-service firms in this field has been declining, and
those that remain are becoming more and more capable. 

A handful of major global firms are emerging as the leaders in

this sector, and we are among them. 
The Òmust-havesÓ to be a leader in the wholesale space are
clear. Scale in terms of capital, clients and products is the first

must-have. JPMorgan Chase has all of those attributes. We are

one of the largest banks in the world in terms of revenues, total

assets, income and market capitalization. banking, asset management, private equity, and retail and 
middle market financial services. There is no question we have a

tremendous strategic platform. It is combined with a strong 

commitment to financial discipline and rigorous risk management

across all of our businesses.
Even though we are going through one of the most difficult
environments in recent times, I have never been more confident

in the future of the firm.
Vision and strategyBy delivering our broad, deep and integrated global 
capabilities in a timely, efficient and creative manner, we expect

to create exceptional value for our shareholders, clients and

employees. We see three strategic requirements to succeed:

scale, leadership positions, and integrated talent and product
In addition, nearly half of our revenues and income in whole-
sale banking comes from our activities outside the U.S. With a

strong presence in Europe, Asia and Latin America, we have the

size and the reach to act as an integrated, full-service provider to

corporations, governments and other institutions on a global basis.  
But size alone is not enough. The second must-have is lead-ership positions across a wide range of products and services,

from syndicating loans, to underwriting bond and equity issues,

to trading securities and advising clients on mergers and acquisi-
tions and other complex business transactions. Our model
enables us to provide creative and integrated solutions to globally

oriented clients. As a result of our many leadership positions and

our deep relations with clients, we are able to act on their behalf

in taking advantage of windows of opportunity that may open 
in one area just as they are slamming shut in another. That hap-

pened in 2001 in a sudden shift from equities to bonds as the
4JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
preferred method of raising capital for many companies. We
have essentially all of the pieces. Now we must prove that we

can provide seamless and superb execution. 
The ideal firm Ñ the firm we have visualized in our mindÕs
eye as the new model for success Ñ combines the breadth and

clout of a big firm with the creativity and agility of a high-quality

niche player. From a full gamut of leadership positions, with the

insight that comes from a close working relationship with the

client and as a result of the ability to act truly as Òone team,Ó

our people should be able to propose and deliver the exact right

combination of products and services in any market, in any 

economic conditions, anywhere in the world. That is the essence

of the third must-have: integrated talent and product delivery.
As part of this integrated delivery, the capability to use 
our balance sheet intelligently to help our clients will, I believe,
become an increasingly important differentiation in gaining 

market share against our competitors that do not have this 

capability.
During 2001, we completed a number of complex transac-tions for clients that illustrate the power and potential of such 
a model. To cite one example, we were the lead arranger on a 

$1 billion-plus financing package that enabled a major Japanese
automobile company to build a new assembly plant in the U.S.
By combining investor coverage between JPMorgan teams in
New York and Tokyo, our firm was able to provide 24-hour 

support and close an extremely complex transaction with several

interlocking components (a syndicated loan, sale/leaseback and
commercial paper) within a very tight time frame. At the same

time, this was a transaction that depended from the start upon a

close, top-level and long-established relationship between our

firm and the client. There are abundant opportunities for synergy across many
of our businesses and multiple avenues for creating additional

value for existing and new clients. Our clients can benefit from

our unique capabilities in investment banking, investment man-
agement and private banking, treasury and securities services, 

and private equity investing. And our global client base of corpo-
rations, governments and high net worth individuals is second 

to none. But that is not all there is to JPMorgan Chase. We also have
a powerful and multi-faceted retail financial services franchise.

While our wholesale businesses are known globally as JPMorgan,

our retail businesses market themselves under the Chase name.

Like our wholesale businesses, our retail businesses maintain

leadership positions in key products and activities, have broad

scale and demonstrate a real commitment to delivering the

greatest value to the customer. In retail, as in wholesale, we are

known for technological excellence Ñ both in the quality of
back-office infrastructure and in the knowledge and expertise of

our people.Chase ranks among the leaders in the U.S. marketplace incredit cards, mortgage lending and auto finance. We have more
than 27 million credit card accounts across the U.S., are the 
number one originator of auto loans (excluding the finance 
operations of the auto companies themselves) and are one of the

leading originators of mortgages. Chase is a broad-scale and

extremely efficient provider of these important personal financial

services. At a regional level, we have strong branch networks in the
tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut as well 

as in Texas. In the tri-state area, we are number one in deposit

share and number one in middle market and small business 

lending and finance.Finally, through Brown & Company, we have a profitable
online brokerage operation geared to high net worth individuals.

Though small, Brown & Company operates on a national level

and represents a vehicle for potential future growth.
While the market for financial services is far more fragmented
on the retail side than it is in wholesale, certain fundamentals

apply in both worlds. One is the importance of flawless execu-
tion. That is why we are using the Six Sigma approach to drive

improvements in quality and efficiency throughout JPMorgan

Chase. Whether the product is a $50,000 mortgage or a multi-

billion-dollar underwriting, we aim to get everything right the
first time. Similarly, in all of our businesses, we have invested

heavily Ñ not just in systems but in the education of our people
Ñ in making the best and most creative use of technology. 
In wholesale and retail financial services alike, our simple
goal is to provide best-in-class products and integrated solutions

that meet the complete financial needs of all of our clients and
customers. Certainly, that is the way all of us at JPMorgan Chase

felt in the days and weeks following September 11. The response

of our people throughout the firm in tending to clients of every

description was nothing short of extraordinary. They did every-

thing from opening a business recovery center, to speeding the

refinancing of a major airline, to working double shifts in Londonand Tokyo to keep the worldÕs foreign exchange and payments

system working. One firm Ñ one team
Formally concluded on the last day of 2000, the merger ofJ.P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan brought together two of the

greatest names in banking Ñ with a combined history spanning

hundreds of years. 
Not only was ours one of the most complex mergers in thehistory of financial services, but it also has been the most swiftly
and fully executed of mergers. We did not wait to break down

boundaries and build new teams and organizations from the

ground up: We entered into this merger with a mindset of equal-

ity and inclusiveness. It helps, I believe, that we had a decadeÕs

worth of prior experience in putting together large mergers and
acquisitions. Our attitude is simply this: Pick the best people. Pick
the best systems. Pick the best strategy. And do not wait to make
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
5the tough decisions that have to be made to cut costs and capitalize on opportunities for top-line growth.
We also have put a huge emphasis on communications Ñ on creating a common culture and aligning all our people

around the vision and strategy. People want to be part of a 

team, and they especially want to be part of a winning team. At
JPMorgan Chase, the vast majority of our employees responding

to internal polls have signaled strong satisfaction with and com-

mitment to the new firm. Clearly, most can see we are building a

winning platform, and they are excited to be part of it.
We have launched a broad range of leadership initiatives
across the firm, including LeadershipMorganChase, our own 

version of a leadership and cultural learning center. Jack Welch,

former chairman of General Electric Ñ who is both a great

leader and a great teacher Ñ is acting as an advisor to us in 

this and other endeavors involving leadership development.
LeadershipMorganChase will be an important tool in creating a

strong common culture that capitalizes on opportunities for 

synergy across our firm and enables us to achieve true leadership

in global financial services.In conclusion
This past year also witnessed significant change in our senior management, as Sandy Warner retired as Chairman of the

Board. His leadership and dedication helped create a smooth

transition as two firms became one. I want to thank him for his
invaluable partnership and for helping to create a foundation

upon which our team will build. In addition, Marina Whitman,
professor of business administration and public policy at the

University of Michigan, will retire from our Board of Directors on

the eve of the 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. I deeply
appreciate the counsel and guidance she has provided for the

past 29 years.JPMorgan Chase is entering a new era. No longer are we
consumed with the task of putting together the different pieces

needed to achieve our vision of a richly diversified firm that will
be one of the true leaders in global banking. We essentially have

all of those capabilities in-house. We have built a tremendous

platform. So now our task is to deliver Ñ to perform. I am veryconfident of our ability to do just that. William B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

March 1, 2002
ÒWe have built a 
tremendous platform 

Ñ now our task is 
to deliver Ñ to perform. 
I am very confident of our
ability to do just that.Ó6JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
Hans W. Becherer
Retired Chairman 

and Chief Executive Officer

Deere & Company
Riley P. Bechtel
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Bechtel Group, Inc.
Frank A. Bennack, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer

The Hearst CorporationLawrence A. Bossidy
Chairman of the Board

Honeywell International Inc.
M. Anthony Burns
Chairman
Ryder System, Inc.H. Laurance FullerRetired Co-Chairman

BP Amoco p.l.c.Ellen V. Futter
President and Trustee

American Museum of Natural HistoryWilliam H. Gray, III
President and Chief Executive Officer

The College Fund/UNCFWilliam B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer
Helene L. KaplanOf Counsel
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher 
& Flom LLPLee R. Raymond
Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Officer

Exxon Mobil CorporationJohn R. Stafford
Chairman of the Board

WyethLloyd D. Ward
Chief Executive Officer

United States Olympic CommitteeMarina v.N. Whitman
Professor of Business Administration 

and Public Policy
University of Michiganboard of directors
William B. Harrison, Jr.

Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer 
Steven D. Black
Investment BankGeoffrey T. Boisi
Investment BankDavid A. Coulter
Retail & Middle Market Financial Services
Investment Management 
& Private BankingDina DublonFinanceJohn J. Farrell
Human Resources
Walter A. GubertInvestment BankThomas B. KetchumTechnology Council Donald H. Layton
Investment Bank James B. Lee, Jr. 
Investment BankMarc J. Shapiro
Finance, Risk Management 
and Administration James E. StaleyInvestment Management 
& Private BankingJeffrey C. Walker
JPMorgan PartnersDon M. Wilson IIIInvestment BankBill WintersInvestment Bankexecutive committeeother corporate officers
David B. EdelsonTreasurySuzanne HammettCredit
Frederick W. Hill
Marketing and CommunicationsAnthony J. Horan
Secretary
William H. McDavid 
LegalWilliam J. MoranAuditJoseph L. SclafaniController
Lesley Daniels Webster 
Market Risk ManagementOur philosophy is that leadership positions
drive growth and shareholder value.

Leadership positions enable us to serve clients
better, attract partners and intellectual capital,

and lead to meaningful economies of scale
that benefit all stakeholders. leadership8JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
ÒA goal- and team-oriented group of 
individuals is leading JPMorgan to the

next level of success. Our core values

and global expertise underpin all that
we do on behalf of our clients. The 
culture that has been built at JPMorgan

encourages excellence and the creation

of a new standard in our dealings 

with clients.ÓJennifer MeyersAssociate
Mergers & Acquisitions
New York
y any measure, JPMorgan ranks as one of the worldÕs 
premier investment banks. With cash operating earnings of 

nearly $3 billion in 2001, we are one of the most profitable

investment banking franchises in the world.Meeting the critical financial needs of corporations, financialinstitutions, governments and institutional investors around the

world, JPMorgan advises on corporate strategy and structure,

raises capital, makes markets in financial instruments and offers

sophisticated risk management services. We take great pride in our deep and carefully nurtured rela-
tionships with corporate and institutional clients. Through the

merger of two great institutions, we have created a platform that

includes a full range of leadership positions in investment bank-
ing products and services. This is combined with a strong

commitment within the firm to act truly as Òone teamÓ in serving
the clients. We aim to deliver the exact right combination of
Investment BankProviding a 360¡relationship 

for our clientsPEC Solutions$85 million follow-on equity offering
JPMorgan acted as lead manager in afollow-on equity offering for PEC

Solutions, a technology solutions
provider. This offering was the second

best performing follow-on of 2001. 
PEC Solutions was among a small num-
ber of technology companies that
executed both an IPO in 2000 and a suc-
cessful follow-on in 2001. JPMorganÕs

lead manager role in this transaction

demonstrates our client commitment
after acting as co-manager in PECÕs 

original IPO. Groupe Danone 
1 billion convertible bondJPMorganÕs proprietary convertible
financing structure, ÒPLYERSÓ (Puttable

Low Yielding Equity-linked Redeemable

Securities), allowed Groupe Danone 

to secure a low coupon and high 

conversion premium. With its strong

investment banking relationship,

JPMorgan acted as joint bookrunner
and lead manager after demonstrating
to the company the merits of convert-
ible financing and this innovative
structure. It represented the first time

JPMorgan acted as bookrunner on a
large convertible issue in France and led
to our No. 1 ranking for underwriter of
convertible securities in Europe.
Republic of Colombia 
US$500 million benchmark bond issue The Republic of Colombia re-entered
the U.S. dollar market through this 

10-year issue of global bonds, which

allowed Colombia to prefinance the

majority of its external funding needs

for 2002. JPMorgan acted as joint-lead
manager and strengthened the firmÕs

leading position as an underwriter for
Latin American sovereign issuers. This

transaction was one of a number of
deals that JPMorgan successfully led for
the Republic of Colombia during 2001. BÒWeÕve structured our equity platform to
deliver the right solution to our clients
across the spectrum of equity products.

The expected growth in European capital

markets activity represents a unique

opportunity to leverage our market 
and deal experience and expand our
business. WeÕre well-positioned to 

capture market share and expect to 

continue the momentum we have been
able to establish.Ó 
Bobby BanksManaging Director

European Equity Capital Markets

Londonmeasures: commitment to 360¼ client relationships, global 
product leadership, a passionate, values-driven culture and 

flawless delivery. 
Addressing client challenges and opportunities from every
angle in a fully integrated, seamless fashion is the cornerstone 

of the investment bankÕs strategy. Captured by the Ò360¼ rela-

tionshipÓ concept, this approach offers our clients a competitive
advantage. As stated by Walter Gubert, Chairman of the Investment
Bank, ÒThere is no other firm that has developed this model as

fully as we have. That was the idea behind the merger. Our 

competitive advantage must come not just from being global,

not just from being as good as we are, but from being fully inte-

grated. WeÕre not sellers of product; we deliver the firm.Ó
JPMorgan leverages its global presence and integrated
approach for the benefit of its clients. Client executives can 
products and services to meet the clientÕs requirements in any
market, in any economic conditions, anywhere in the world. 

Our mission is twofold: to deliver exceptional value to clients and
to achieve pre-eminence in this field Ñ becoming the worldÕs most

capable, most influential and most profitable investment bank.
In 2001, our platform was well-received in the marketplace,
and our first year culminated with the distinction of being named
ÒBank of the YearÓ by 
International Financing Review.
This accolade was supported by an additional 18 numberone awards from 
IFR, and these have been complemented byseveral best-in-class awards from 
Riskmagazine. IFRalso recog-
nized that we have been Òresolutely focusedÓ on performance in a

merger integration year, which is Ònothing short of astounding.Ó
As we move into 2002, the focus shifts from integration to
transformation and the continuing drive for pre-eminence. 

Our model continues to be based on four distinct, but interlockedComcast/AT&T
The $72 billion Comcast/AT&T merger
was the largest merger announced in
2001. The combination will create one

of the leading and most powerful com-
munications, media and entertainment
companies in the world and the worldÕs

pre-eminent broadband services 

company. JPMorgan acted as a financial

advisor to Comcast on the acquisition
strategy and advised the company on
its debt raising capacity in the bank and
bond markets. JPMorgan was chosen as
a result of its long-standing relationship

with Comcast.  ÒThe depth of our research coverage is
extensive Ñ over 3,000 companies
worldwide. Also, having strong 

leadership positions allows the firm to

attract the best and brightest talent 
Ñ a very important attribute that our
clients expect and demand.ÓShinji Kuroda
Vice President 
Equity Research

Tokyoprivate, debt or equity Ñ by combining its origination strength,
structuring expertise and distribution capability. The uniqueness

of JPMorgan is best illustrated in the debt arena where the firmÕs

strength in loan syndications and fixed income origination makes

it the worldÕs largest debt house.
Risk management:As a premier market maker and the
largest provider of derivative solutions in the world, JPMorgan

offers a combination of talent, experience, structuring know-how

and financial backbone to help issuers and investors protect their

financial exposure against volatility. 
The delivery of JPMorganÕs range of investment banking
products to its global client base is rooted in a corporate culture

that fosters an atmosphere of trust, partnership and excellence.

Core values Ñ integrity, drive, partnership, excellence, insight

and reliability Ñ permeate everything JPMorgan does. These 

values enable JPMorgan to develop long-term, trusting relation-
harness the firmÕs resources and talent around each clientÕs 
issues and maximize the knowledge and experience of product

experts, industry professionals, regional specialists and other 

professionals throughout the firm to meet the clientÕs strategic

and tactical needs.In addition, JPMorgan offers a multitude of products and
services to assist clients throughout a companyÕs life cycle. 

The end-to-end product capability, which reflects JPMorganÕs

strengths as both a commercial bank and an investment bank,

includes the following services:Strategic advisory:
JPMorgan adheres to a disciplined
approach for its clients in the screening, evaluation and execu-

tion of strategic transactions Ñ acquisitions, divestitures and

reorganizations.Capital raising:JPMorgan can rapidly and efficiently accom-
modate its clientsÕ capital raising needs Ñ whether public or UPM-Kymmene OYJ 2.5 billion credit facility
UPM-Kymmene OYJ is one of the leading global paper producers. This

principally acquisition-related financing

represented one of the largest 
international financings for any Nordic

company to date. Acting as the 
coordinator and sole bookrunner on 

the facility, JPMorgan executed a large

financing during challenging market
conditions and solidified its lead posi-
tion and expertise in capital raising for
the global pulp and paper industry. 
ÒOur clients look to JPMorgan as a newinstitution with excellence, power and
leadership. We have earned the trust 

of our clients through our proven ability 

to solve their most complex financial
challenges. They know that our commit-
ment to them goes well beyond any
single transaction Ñ we build long-term
partnerships with our clients.ÓSusana de la PuenteManaging Director

Client Management
Lima, Peruships with its clients, both issuers and investors, based on respect
and confidence.At all levels Ñ individual, product unit, division and firm 
Ñ JPMorgan constantly strives for performance excellence that
surpasses expectation. Demanding the utmost of itself is a key
ingredient of the culture, defining how JPMorgan interacts with

clients.The Investment BankÕs strategic imperatives include main-
taining market-leading positions in syndicated lending, debt
capital raising, derivatives and foreign exchange; building market

share in mergers and acquisitions and equities; deepening 

and broadening our expense discipline; and utilizing Six Sigma

and comparable efficiency-enhancing approaches to evaluate and

improve our business methods.
At the onset of 2002, Riskstated that: Ò[JPMorgan] man-ages to top the polls via that most important commodity Ñclient satisfaction.Ó Such recognized client orientation, 
in conjunction with global scale, product proficiency and cross-

divisional synergy to deliver customized solutions, is the base of
our business model and positions JPMorgan to advance even 
further from an already solid foundation. 
The opportunity to create value with and for our clients is
tremendous. Clients want reliable, full-service, global providers of

financial services to be their long-term partners. They also want a
partner that has the capacity and expertise to commit capital to
that long-term relationship when circumstances require, a clear

competitive advantage we hold Ñ by being the best of a 
commercial bank and the best of an investment bank.
BHP/BillitonThe $35 billion BHP/Billiton merger, 
the largest M&A transaction ever
announced in Australia, created the

world's largest diversified mining 
company. JPMorgan acted as financial

advisor and corporate broker to Billiton.

This transaction demonstrates the
importance of strong, long-term 

relationships. In 1997, Flemings acted asfinancial advisor to Billiton during its

initial public offering. Since that time,

JPMorgan has advised Billiton on 
several acquisitions and held lead 
management positions in its debt and
equity financings. 
s a world leader in financial transaction processing and
information services, JPMorgan Treasury & Securities Services

(T&SS) delivers a complete range of cash and treasury manage-

ment, institutional trust, custody and other investor services
globally. These top-quality products are integral to JPMorganÕs

portfolio of services for corporations, financial institutions and
government entities worldwide.
To maintain leadership, the three T&SS businesses have
strategies designed to respond to their different market dynamics.

The strategies have in common a commitment to maintaining
financial discipline and rigorous expense management, as well 

as delivering excellent client service, developing innovative 
products, making targeted acquisitions and expanding into new

markets.JPMorgan Institutional Trust Services is the number one
trustee for all U.S. debt issues and for fiduciary services for securi-ÒSolid and clear leadership has empowered employees to grow and

take ownership of initiatives Ñ to step
out and face new challenges. It actually
goes beyond teamwork. WeÕre building

a community at JPMorgan.ÓJose CruzVice President
Institutional Trust Services

Brooklyn, New York
Treasury & Securities ServicesMarket-tested leader 
Ñ strategic advisor and 
trusted partner Bayerische LandesbankFacing stiff competition, JPMorgan
Institutional Trust Services was awarded

with the securities clearance business of
Bayerische Landesbank Girozentrale,

the sixth largest bank in Germany. As

part of the selection process, the client

subjected Institutional Trust to rigorous

testing; JPMorgan was able to demon-
strate its technological sophistication
and its ability to offer the client a single

point of contact. JPMorgan will support
BayerischeÕs securities lending, trading

and sales, repo and proprietary trading

groups. The deal demonstrates the

growing strength of this business 

in Europe.
New Zealand Government 

Superannuation Fund Authority (GSFA) 
JPMorgan Investor Services was awarded global custody of more than

NZ$3.4 billion in the Government

Superannuation Fund. The GSFA was

charged with improving the FundÕs

investment income and reducing the

New Zealand governmentÕs annual cost

of financing the FundÕs benefits while

not incurring undue risk. The mandate
reinforces JPMorganÕs commitment to
the New Zealand market and came at a
time when other global fund managers
and service providers were closing their

New Zealand operations.A12JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
Sony Global Treasury Services
Global size and recognized expertise 
Ñ these were the top reasons why

Sony Global Treasury Services (SGTS)

selected JPMorgan Treasury Services as

its core global U.S. dollar bank.

JPMorgan established a U.S. dollar
account structure to facilitate SGTSÕs

cross-border and in-country sweep

activities, to centralize payment initia-
tion and to streamline information

management. SGTS now is served by a
single communications pipeline, deliv-
ering ease of technology management,
global economies of scale in treasury

and technology activities, and a cen-
tralized, global function to facilitate
funding and other treasury activities.
ChevronTexaco
After a strategic review, JPMorgan
Investor Services was chosen as master
trustee of the new companyÕs U.S. 

pension program and as master 

custodian of ChevronÕs larger non-U.S.

pension schemes for a combined 
$5 billion in pension assets. JPMorgan

was selected for its high level of profes-

sional knowledge and insight and its

robust Web-based electronic informa-
tion system for obtaining current asset 

values and performance data. As master
trustee and custodian, JPMorgan 
also will supply accounting and global 

consolidated reporting, performance

and analytics, and securities lending
services.ÒGreat leadership is about setting benchmarks and surpassing them. By
setting higher standards and exceeding

those standards, we are able to demon-

strate to clients our commitment to the
payments processing business and our

superiority in U.S. dollar processing.Ó
Sethumadhavan NatarajanSenior Vice President

Treasury ServicesHong Kongtized debt products globally. The fastest growing T&SS business,
Institutional Trust Services has a strategy focused on business

expansion. The business aggressively manages its existing prod-

ucts by Web-enabling them to improve efficiency and service and

by delivering them increasingly to markets outside the U.S.

Institutional Trust Services also has a successful track record of

acquisitions that have extended the businessÕs product capabilities,

expanded its geographic reach and improved economies of scale.
JPMorgan Investor Services is one of the three largest firms
in custody services globally, with $6.5 trillion in assets under 

custody. Growth in the business, beyond overall market growth,

is driven by providing products of value to institutional investors

and by marketing to the firmÕs broad client base. 
The business plans to spur future growth with targeted
acquisitions. Investor Services was restructured in 2001 into prod-

uct companies to support an increased emphasis on efficiency
and to align new product development with client needs and
changing industry requirements.
JPMorgan Treasury Services, the worldÕs largest U.S. dollar
clearer and a market leader in cash and treasury management

services, has delivered solid profits and consistent growth in 

a mature market. To gain market share, Treasury Services has

focused on expanding into new client segments with existing
products, developing new products for existing clients and, 

more recently, making selected acquisitions to extend its product

offering. The business also is focused on expense management

and efficiency.
oth JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management and JPMorganPrivate Bank are leading trusted 
advisors, and each has a distinctstrategy for growth in market 
share and 
assets. Both maintainstrong r
eputations for excellence in client relationships.
JPMorgan Fleming Asset ManagementJPMorgan Fleming is a leading asset manager delivering global
investment capabilities ranging from cash management to equity

and fixed income investments to alternative asset classes such 

as private equity, hedge funds and real estate. The business has

relationships with more than 30% of the 1,000 largest U.S. 
pension plans and 30% of the 50 largest U.K. pension plans.
Additionally, it is the second largest Pan-European mutual fund

provider, the leading asset manager in Asia and the second

largest active foreign asset manager in Japan. 
Strong investment performance and outstanding client 
ÒClients of JPMorgan Private Bank recognize the combined power of ourÔglobal reachÕ and Ôlocal presence.Õ Our

firm can follow high net worth clients
locally in Europe and around the world, 

accessing the capabilities of our 
investment group in London, our hedge

fund advisory team in Geneva and our
private equity group in New York.

Clients like the fact that we can provide

experience and solutions across a broad

range of needs in multiple geographies.Ó
Herv” de MontlivaultManaging Director 

JPMorgan Private Bank
ParisInvestment Management& Private Banking
World class, worldwideInstitutional plan under new managementIn July 2001, Procter & Gamble (P&G), 
one of the worldÕs largest and oldest con-

sumer products manufacturers, awarded

the management of its $11.8 billion 
profit-sharing plan and employee-stock

ownership plan to J.P. Morgan/American

Century Retirement Plan Services. The

plan, composed of approximately 43,000

participants, offers a variety of JPMorgan

Fleming commingled funds, including
money market, fixed income, and domes-
tic and international large and small cap

investments. P&G had been its own
recordkeeper since the planÕs inception in
1887. J.P. Morgan/American Century now 

provides recordkeeping, communications

and individual investment education 
services for P&G employees. BÒJPMorgan FlemingÕs management has
created an atmosphere where individu-

als are challenged to think creatively

and are empowered to deliver our best

thinking and excellence in execution 
for our clients. As we looked at the
challenging investing environment 

facing our clients this year, our creativity

culminated in an alternative investment

seminar for institutional clients 
seeking education and advice on 
opportunities in real estate and hedge

fund investments.ÓSusan OhVice President
JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management
Chicagoservice are key to its strategy. Recognized for delivering solid
long-term performance in many equity products, including the

Active Core, Active Value and Analyst Portfolios, we are working

to build outstanding performance across all investment strate-

gies. We are also sharply focused on expanding our business in

the U.S. defined contribution and global mutual fund market-
places. JPMorgan FlemingÕs 45% interest in American Century is 

important to this expansion in the U.S., while brand awareness

of the Fleming and JPMorgan names is a critical advantage in
Europe and Asia. 
JPMorgan Private BankJPMorgan Private Bank is the pre-eminent global private bank. 

We have relationships with nearly 60% of the individuals on 
the Forbes400 U.S. list and 40% of the individuals on the Forbesbillionaires global list. Our strategy combines the best of 
commercial, trust and investment banking capabilities into a 
single integrated platform dedicated to serving the complex chal-
lenges faced by our wealthy clients. The range of capabilities at
JPMorgan Private Bank is among the most comprehensive in the

industry and leverages the leadership positions of the entire firm

for the benefit of our clients. JPMorgan Private Bank provides clients with a wide range of
investment solutions, including portfolio management, securities
trading and alternative investments along with risk management,

tax and estate planning, capital raising and specialty wealth 
advisory services. Using a 360¼ approach, we deliver integrated

and customized advice and solutions to meet each clientÕs unique

needs. Growth in money markets   
During 2001, institutional and retail
clients worldwide invested over $45
billion in money markets, increasing

our share of this rapidly growing mar-

ket to over 22% across Europe, Asia

and Japan and 5% in the Americas. This
record growth is largely the result of
strong partnerships with other lines of

business within JPMorgan Chase, most
notably the Investment Bank, Retail
and Middle Market Financial Services,
and Treasury and Securities Services.
Focus on alternatives
In 2001, our private clients around the
world invested over $2.5 billion in alter-
native investments. Due to its strategic
and opportunistic nature, this asset

class is particularly appropriate for 

qualified clients in uncertain investing
environments. By leveraging the firmÕs

global capabilities, we offered clients

proprietary and third-party solutions 

in private equity, hedge funds, real

estate and distressed investing. Notable 

examples include funds that allowed
private clients opportunities to 
co-invest with the firm and our large
institutional clients.The power of partnershipIn the summer of 2001, JPMorganFleming united its U.S. mutual fund
families under the name ÒJPMorgan
Funds,Ó which offers investors an

expanded range of investment styles
and strategies. JPMorgan Funds part-
nered with the firmÕs retail brokerage

unit, Chase Investment Services, to tap
the firmÕs extensive retail customer

base. This partnership helped make
JPMorgan Funds the number one selling
fund family to individual and small
business customers, achieving a 21%
market share, compared with 4.3% 

in 2000.JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
1516JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
JPMorgan Partners
Unparalleled knowledge, 
experience and resources 
Chromalox
JPMorgan Partners purchased
Chromalox, Inc., a leading worldwide

manufacturer of heating elements, 

sensors and controls, from Emerson

Electric for $165 million. Chromalox

manufactures more than 5,000 prod-

ucts, the industryÕs most diverse

selection of heating products, and has a

customer base of over 30,000 end users
and OEMs. We believe as a stand-alone

company, Chromalox, in partnership

with JPMorgan Partners, can achieve
significant growth and increased 

profitability through its initiatives and

acquisitions and by shifting production 

to lower-cost regions. 
Triton PCSTriton PCS is a leading provider 
of digital wir
elessservices 
in theSoutheast, licensedto 
operate in a contiguous area covering more than 

13 million people in Virginia, North

Carolina, South Carolina, northern

Georgia, northeastern Tennessee and

southeastern Kentucky. The company

markets its services under the brand
SunCom, a member of the AT&T

Wireless Network. JPMP provided seed

financing for Triton in 1997. 
Axis Specialty InsuranceJPMorgan Partners was a lead investorin Axis Specialty, a Bermuda-based

global insurance and reinsurance busi-

ness with a specific focus on many of
the specialty insurance and reinsurance

lines most affected by the World Trade

Center disaster. The company has 

an initial capital base of more than 

$1.6 billion and is funded by Marsh 

& McLennan and JPMorgan Partners.n the markets it serves, JPMorgan Partners (JPMP) is the principal vehicle for the private equity investing of JPMorgan
Chase. During its 18-year history, JPMP has operated over 

multiple business cycles and widely varying conditions in the 
debt and equity markets and has become an established leader
in this asset class.Managing Partner Jeffrey Walker sees JPMPÕs globally inte-
grated network as Òthe next-generation private equity model.Ó
The globally integrated network consists of four elements: nine
worldwide offices, five industry practice groups, relationships

with more than 600 current and former portfolio companies, and

relationships with JPMorganÕs worldwide industry specialists in
equity research and investment banking. The globally integrated 

network plays a critical role across all stages of private equity

investing: from deal sourcing to due diligence to the creation of

value and the exit phase.ÒWhat distinguishes JPMorgan Partnersin the private equity world is our 
globally integrated network which
operates as a seamless team, regardless

of specialty. As a result, we are able to

build significant value for our investors
in partnership with our portfolio 
companies, our limited partners and co-
investors. Combined with our linkage
with the JPMorgan Chase franchise,
JPMP is able to serve as a true partner
to our portfolio companies in meeting
their capital needs.ÓFaith RosenfeldPartner
New York 
IÒWe have a tremendous opportunity 
to leverage the teamwork that we are

developing between JPMorgan Partners
and the strong leadership platforms

throughout all of JPMorgan. As part of

this integrated platform, JPMorgan
Partners has a unique advantage to
strengthen and enhance our global 

private equity business.ÓDamion Wicker, M.D. 
Partner
New York
RiboTargets
In one of the largest European biotech-
nology private equity deals in 2001,
JPMorgan Partners led a £32 million
financing round in RiboTargets Ltd, 

a biopharmaceuticals company with
novel therapeutic interests in the large,

medical need areas of antibiotics,

antivirals and oncology. RiboTargets

focuses on structure-based drug design

and applies its proprietary computation-

al screening technology, RiboDock
TM, to fast-track drug candidate screening

and lead compound identification.
RiboDock is the only computational
screening platform capable of handling

both protein and RNA drug targets. 
The competitive advantages resulting from this network are
far-reaching. High-quality deal flow is generated from each of

the four elements, along with access to experienced deal execu-
tion capabilities. In addition, the network provides market

intelligence that allows us to anticipate change, identify new
opportunities and execute successfully on those opportunities
ahead of the competition. JPMP will continue to leverage this network while ensuringindustry and geographic diversification in our portfolio. JPMP has
long believed that middle market buyout opportunities are our

strength, and we will continue to focus on rebalancing the over-

all portfolio to bring those types of deals up to historical levels in
terms of percentage of the overall portfolio. 
Through the globally integrated network, JPMP has devel-
oped the capacity to invest, under appropriate economic and

market conditions, substantially more capital in direct private
equity than the amounts JPMorgan Chase desires to invest 
annually in such transactions. During 2001, JPMorgan Chase
slowed the pace of proprietary investments while, at the same

time, JPMP continued to raise third-party money for additional

funds for future investment. To date, we have raised $1.5 billion

in outside capital. JPMP remains a source of long-term value creation for
JPMorgan Chase with multiple synergies across the firm. Though

2001 saw weak economic and market conditions resulting in less

favorable financial results than in previous years from JPMP,

JPMorgan Chase continues to believe JPMPÕs unique approach 

to investing across industries, types of investments and regions,

coupled with rigorous risk management, will lead to positive

shareholder value added.
ÒAs financial solutions representatives,
we are the customerÕs first point of 

contact and are responsible for 

upholding the promise of great 

customer service. Our interaction with
customers sets the standard for 

their experience and for their continuing
patronage.Ó
Nancy LewisFinancial Services Representative

Hillside Branch
Hillside, New JerseySubaru Motors FinanceChase Auto Finance launched its firstprivate-label business with Subaru
Motors Finance, which provides a cus-

tomized program tailored to meet the

needs of SubaruÕs customers and deal-

ers. This innovative program positions

Chase to deliver a full range of lease
and retail financing to SubaruÕs cus-

tomers as well as wholesale/floor plan
financing to dealers. The program also

exemplifies Chase AutoÕs strategy to

grow and diversify the business through

enhanced relationships with automo-

tive manufacturers and dealers groups.

Subaru was attracted to Chase for the
types of service, products and pricing 

a Six Sigma-driven company could offer.
Retail & Middle Market Financial Services
Superior product breadth 

and leadershiplready one of the foremost retail banks in the U.S.,
Chase is aggressively leveraging its brand, scale, leadership 

positions and broad capabilities to be a long-term winner in the

financial services market. This dynamic business offers world-class

credit, payment, savings, investments and insurance services

through a wide array of distribution channels. As an industry

leader, Chase is creating a new standard for financial services

delivery that is focused on consistent, superior execution that
exceeds customersÕ expectations. Chase has established a number of key objectives to drivesuccess in this effort. The first is to apply broadly a Six Sigma

approach to quality improvement that enables Chase to provide

exceptional customer service and value. Launched in early 2001,
Six Sigma is enabling Chase to reduce flaws in its customer-

facing processes, such as account opening, payment handling

and checkbook reordering, thereby increasing customer satisfac-
AÒWe are committed to being the 
outstanding service provider. Our

growth strategy is all about providing

best-in-class service to customers at
every point of contact.Ó Jim PeymanExecutive Vice President 

Chase Cardmember Services 

Tempe, Arizona Office Depot co-branded credit card
JPMorgan Chase and Office Depot, 
the largest office products retailer in

the world, launched a co-branded credit

card which offers businesses the oppor-

tunity to fund office supplies, business

services and travel expenditures while

earning reward points for card pur-

chases. Points can be redeemed for free

or discounted products and services,

including Office Depot merchandise and

gift certificates, hotel accommodations,
car rentals and airline tickets. For added

convenience, businesses will receive

one consolidated statement that
streamlines expense reconciliation 

and online statements, helping small
businesses manage spending and tax
preparation. 
tion and improving overall efficiency. This is coupled with 
delivering best-in-class products and expert financial advice and

guidance that enable customers to protect and grow their

wealth. Specifically, we will provide integrated banking, invest-

ments, insurance and credit offerings that meet customersÕ needs

all in one place.Across its wide range of market-leading businesses, Chase
believes in developing deep, long-term relationships with 

customers, whether they are individuals, small business owners

or middle market companies. This conviction is backed by a 
dedication to tapping the diverse capabilities of the firm. It also
involves delivering responsive, high-quality service at every cus-

tomer touch point.
ChaseÕs responsiveness to customers was never more 
evident than in the aftermath of the September 11 tragedy,

when it implemented customer care policies and initiatives 
across all of its retail businesses and established a business 
recovery center to provide small business customers with a broad
range of specialized services during this difficult time.
Another of ChaseÕs objectives is to leverage information 
technology to improve operating efficiencies and business effec-

tiveness. Technology also helps to provide insight and the ability

to deliver in response to customersÕ preferences and behaviors

and to provide customers with anytime, anywhere access to 

their accounts and information via multiple channels, including
branches, ATMs, the Internet and telephone. 
Chase strongly believes its strategic approach to executing
effectively and consistently enhancing the customer experience

will produce revenue growth and strong returns over the long

term, resulting in increased value for shareholders. 
ÒThe heritage institutions of JPMorganChase had a long and consistent track
record of giving back to the community,
and itÕs rewarding to see that, after 

the merger, the Philanthropic and

Community Development budget of the
new firm now surpasses the combined
budgets of the individual firms. As a
Public Finance banker financing tax-
exempt entities, including not-for-profit

organizations, it is extremely gratifying

to assist in giving back to the organiza-
tions that give so much to their local
communities.ÓGarth SalisburyManaging Director

Public Finance Investment Banking
San FranciscoCommunity, culture 
& philanthropy

Reaching out in many waysince the founding of its earliest predecessor firm in 1799,
JPMorgan Chase has vigorously supported the development and

prosperity of the communities it serves. Our involvement touches

peopleÕs lives through an innovative array of activities worldwide,

sponsored by the corporation and its subsidiaries, The J.P. Morgan

Chase Foundation, and thousands of employees and their 
families who give their time, money and creativity generously to

make a difference. The success of our efforts inspires us to stay

involved through a multitude of activities, including corporate

and philanthropic giving, United Way, United Negro College

Fund, blood drives, volunteerism, mentoring, community devel-
opment, and sports and cultural events. In 2001, JPMorgan
Chase contributed nearly $100 million to various philanthropic

endeavors worldwide.Through innovative corporate sponsorships of the arts, family
entertainment and sporting events, JPMorgan Chase continues September 11 Ñ World Trade Center
Within hours, JPMorgan Chase began tohelp victims. Numerous employees

donated blood while Small Business
Financial Services opened two Òrecov-

ery centers.Ó We offered free child care

for families who used WTC facilities and
sponsored ÒComfort for Kids,Ó an inten-

sive effort to help children manage fear,

anger and grief. The firm donated
banking services to support the national
WTC Telethon and several relief funds

and provided $12.7 million to support

relief efforts. The firm matched 
$2.7 million contributed by employees
and committed $10 million to address

gaps in three areas: economic redevel-

opment, victims not supported by
major relief efforts and tolerance.
SGlobal Days of ServiceThe spirit of volunteerism among ouremployees is exemplary. In October,

JPMorgan Chase volunteers set a new
level of excellence with the Global Days
of Service program. In more than 175

cities worldwide, over 17,000 JPMorgan
Chase volunteers took part in more

than 600 team projects Ñ helping the

homeless, cleaning up schools, cooking

and serving at soup kitchens, planting
bulbs in parks and organizing events
for children in need. A number of the

firmÕs volunteers also served at World

Trade Center respite centers, supporting
recovery workers by preparing and
serving food and providing other 

much-needed comforts. ÒWeÕre fortunate to be part of an 
organization that has been consistently
recognized for its corporate values andcommunity support. Being a leader in
this area comes along with many

responsibilities, and our commitment tothese issues and values is just as 
important as the way we conduct our
business with our clients. At all levels,
our firm and employees care.Ó
Joseph ScharfenbergerExecutive Vice President

Small Business Financial Services
New York
its investment in the quality of lives globally by creating leisure
opportunities for individuals and their families to enjoy new expe-
riences that otherwise might not have been available to them.
From creating ÒJPMorgan Chase Tennis Camp for GirlsÓ as part

of our corporate sponsorship of the U.S. Tennis Open to the

JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge which runs internationally,

the firm is continuously involved with building relationships and

deepening its commitment to the communities it serves.Our commitment to art is widely recognized. With over
20,000 pieces, the well-respected JPMorgan Chase art collection

is known for its commitment to supporting contemporary artists
who are shaping the future through their innovative and creative

vision. Our involvement with art includes multiple endeavors
where we find ourselves in the role of curator, educator, corpo-

rate sponsor or exhibition host. The Community Development Group (CDG) strengthens the
communities in which JPMorgan Chase does business by expand-ing access to capital, leading by example and leveraging the
many resources of JPMorgan Chase. Central to this mission, 

the CDG serves low- and moderate-income communities, small
businesses, and low-to-moderate-income individuals and families
through services such as credit, banking, affordable housing,

mortgages and technical assistance, as well as the Supplier
Diversity Program, advisory services to community groups and

nonprofit institutions that serve these communities.  
Our culture, our people and the way we conduct ourselves
also are respected as we continue to be widely recognized as 

one of the best workplaces for employees. Included among the
numerous awards we received in 2001 was the prestigious

Catalyst Award for our innovative programs that advance the

careers of women. 
22JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
financial table of contentsThis section of the Annual Report provides managementÕs 
discussion and analysis (ÒMD&AÓ) of the financial condition
and results of operations for JPMorgan Chase. See Glossary 

of terms on pages 100 and 101 for a definition of terms used
throughout this Annual Report.
Certain forward-looking statements
The MD&A contains certain forward-looking statements. 
Those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and

uncertainties, and JPMorgan ChaseÕs actual results may differ

from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. 

See JPMorgan ChaseÕs reports filed with the Securities and

Exchange Commission for a discussion of factors that could
cause JPMorgan ChaseÕs actual results to differ materially from

those described in the forward-looking statements. 
Financial highlights:23Five-year summary of financial highlightsManagementÕs discussion and analysis:
24Overview27Reconciliation of reported financials to operating
results28Segment results
41Critical accounting policies used by the Firm42Results of operations45Risk management46Capital management47Credit risk management
55Market risk management58Operational risk management60Liquidity risk management62Private equity risk management62Accounting and reporting developments
63Comparison between 2000 and 1999Audited financial statements:64ManagementÕs report on responsibility for 
financial reporting
64Report of independent accountants65Consolidated financial statements69Notes to consolidated financial statementsSupplementary information:99Selected quarterly financial data100Glossary of termsJPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
23five-year summary of financial highlightsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
(unaudited)As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
20012000199919981997
REPORTED BASIS
Revenue $29,050$32,934$30,930$25,753$24,028
Noninterest expense (excluding restructuring costs)
20,77621,39317,97216,06614,968
Merger and restructuring costs2,5231,43123887192
Provision for loan losses3,1851,3771,4461,453804
Net income$1,694$5,727$7,501$4,745$5,173
Net income per share:Basic0.832.993.872.37
2.53Diluted0.802.863.692.272.41
Return on average common equity
3.92%15.56%22.46%14.35%16.80%
Cash dividends declared per share$1.36$1.28$1.08$0.96$0.83
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.29%8.46%8.54%8.23%7.93%
Total capital ratio
11.8812.0312.3411.9411.73
Tier 1 leverage
5.175.435.855.345.35
Book value per share
$20.32$21.17$18.07$17.39$16.04
Total assets693,575715,348667,003626,942627,680
Long-term debt
43,62247,23845,54047,13239,266
Total stockholdersÕ equity41,09942,33835,05635,09933,146
OPERATING BASIS
(a)IncludingJPMP
(b)Revenue $30,098$32,793$31,695$
26,523$24,919
Noninterest expense 20,77621,39317,87216,02914,833
Credit costs(c)4,2332,3672,4392,6011,797
Earnings $3,409$5,927$7,433$5,081$5,314
Earnings per share Ð diluted 1.652.963.652.432.48
Return on average common equity
8.05%16.12%22.25%15.39%17.28%
Common dividend payout ratio
8240293934
Cash operating basis(d)Cash earni
ngs $4,138$6,455$7,762$5,374$5,486
Cash earnings per share Ð diluted 2.013.233.822.582.56
Shareholder value added
(911)2,0183,7041,3841,730
Cash return on average common equity
9.81%17.58%23.25%16.31%17.87%
Cash overhead ratio
6764555959
OPERATING BASIS
(a)Excluding JPMP(b)
Revenue $31,555$32,004$28,616$
25,263$23,778
Earnings $4,578$5,683$5,653$4,389$4,659
Earnings per share Ð diluted 2.232.852.772.102.17
Return on average common equity
12.87%19.56%20.05%15.26%16.13%
Overhead ratio
6566616362
Cash operating basis(d)Cash earni
ngs $5,286$6,197$5,981$4,682$4,831
Cash earnings per share Ð diluted 2.583.112.942.242.25
Cash return on average common equity
14.88%21.36%21.23%16.31%16.75%
Cash overhead ratio
6264606261
(a)Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations,merger and restructuring costs,special items and the net effect of a chan
ge in accounting principle.For a list of special items,
see Glossary of terms on page 101.(b) JPMP represents JPMorgan Partners,JPMorgan ChaseÕs private equity investment business.

(c) Includes provision for loan losses and credit costs related to the securitized credit card portfolio.

(d) Excludes the impact of the amortization of intangibles.
24JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co
.managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
In 2001, JPMorgan ChaseÕs reported net
income, which includes merger and
restructuring costs, was $1,694 million, or $0.80 per share. This compares with

$5,727 million, or $2.86 per share, in

2000. Operating income was $3,409 
million in 2001, compared with $5,927

million last year. Operating earnings per

share were $1.65, compared with $2.96 

in 2000.  These results reflect a challenging 
economic environment that, in varying

degrees, negatively affected activity,
spreads and values in each of the FirmÕs
major business segments. During 2001,
the global economy was moving into a
recession, as evidenced by significantreductions in asset values globally, lower
liquidity in equity and equity-related

markets, sharply reduced mergers and

acquisitions (ÒM&AÓ) activity and related

declines in overall capital markets activity.

These factors also contributed to cyclical
credit pressures on both con
sumer andcommercial financing markets.
While these economic and market pres-
sures negatively affected 2001 operating
performance, the pace of merger inte-gration was on or ahead of plan, and
this progress was enhanced by the fran-

chise- and brand-power of the newly
merged company. Market share gains 

in investment banking were realized as

clients embraced the JPMorgan Chase
business model as one that contributes
to their success and financial flexibility.

The investment management and pri-
vate banking business successfully com-
pleted its merger integration and
expense initiatives in 2001. Operating
services and consumer businesses con-
tinued to produce solid returns and to

execute on efficiency plans. JPMorgan

Chase is well-positioned to produce

higher returns when the economy

recovers. Summary results by segment
Though revenue and cash operating
earnings in the 
Investment Bank(ÒIBÓ) were lower in 2001 than in 2000,

expenses were significantly reduced. 

The IBÕs overhead ratio in 2001 reached

its target of 60% for the year. 
Leader-
ship positions across product categories
OverviewJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (ÒJPMorgan ChaseÓ or Òthe FirmÓ) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of
nearly $700 billion and operations in more than 50 countries. JPMorgan Chase has relationships with over 99% of

the Fortune 1000 companies and serves more than 30 million consumers. The Firm is comprised of five business

segments: Investment Bank, Treasury & Securities Services, Investment Management & Private Banking,

JPMorgan Partners, and Retail & Middle Market Financial Services.   
Key events for full-year 2001
¥Deteriorating credit conditions and continued losses at JPMorgan Partnershad
a negative impact on earnings
¥Significant expense reductions were achieved  
¥The Investment Bank generated a cash ROCE of 15%; consumer and operatingservices businesses achieved cash ROCEs of 20% and 24%, respectively 
¥Business leadership positions were solidified through merger integration and
client focus¥The flagship banks successfully merged on November 10, 2001Financial performance of JPMorgan ChaseReportedOperating
(a)Including JPMPExcluding JPMP
(c)Year ended December 31,Over/(under)Over/(under) Over/(under)
(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
200120002001200020012000Revenue$29,050(12)%$30,098(8)%$31,555(1)%Net income1,694(70)3,409(42)4,578(19)Earnings per share (ÒEPSÓ) Ð diluted0.80(72)1.65(44)2.23(22)Return on average 
common equity(ÒROCEÓ)3.9%(1,170)bp
8.1%(800)bp
12.9%(670)bp
Cash earnings(b)$4,138(36)%$5,286(15)%Cash EPSÐ diluted
(b)2.01(38)2.58(17)Cash ROCE9.8%(780)bp
14.9%(650)bp
(a)Operating basis excludes the impact of credit card securitizations,merger and restructuring costs,special items and the net 
effect of a change in accounting principle.For a reconciliation of
reported to operating results,see page 27.
(b)Cash operating basis also excludes the impact of the amortization of intangibles.

(c)Represents JPMorgan ChaseÕs results excluding JPMorgan Partners,the FirmÕs private equity investment business.For a further 
description,see Segment results on page 28.
bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
25were improved or maintained, and equities,
a strategic priority, made important strides

towards reaching its goals. Higher credit

costs, including additions to the loan loss
allowance, more than offset these 
positivesand contributed to lower earnings.
Three businesses make up the 
Treasury & Securities Services(ÒT&SSÓ) seg-ment. Two of these, Treasury Services

and Institutional Trust Services, posted

revenue and earnings growth from
2000. Revenues and income in Investor
Services, the largest of the three,

decreased due to declining market

transaction volumes and values. Treasury

& Securities Services provides an impor-

tant diversification benefit to the Firm
and had a 24% ROCE for the year. 
The Investment Management &Private Banking(ÒIMPBÓ) segmentwas hard hit by declines in asset values

and shifts in asset mix from equities to

fixed income and money market prod-

ucts. In addition, the disappearance of
the domestic technology initial public
offering (ÒIPOÓ) market and the down-

turn in the Japanese equity markets

negatively impacted IMPBÕs results. With

assets under management of $605 bil-
lion, JPMorgan Chase is one of the topfive active asset managers in the world.The private bank continued to win new
clients and an increased share of existing

clientsÕ assets. Expense discipline was
strong in both businesses; however, with

lower revenues, the unit saw its margin

decline from last year.
Retail & Middle Market FinancialServices(ÒRMMFSÓ) posted revenue
growth of 7%, driven by strong produc-

tion, with record originations in

Cardmember Services, Home Finance

and Auto Finance. Cardmember Services

realized double-digit revenue and earn-
ings growth despite higher credit costs.

The deposit businesses were hurt by

declining interest rates despite growth 

in the deposit base. Expenses grew at 

a lower rate than revenues. A 35%

increase in RMMFSÕs credit costs, 

including an addition to the loan loss
allowance, resulted in cash operating

earnings declining 5%.
JPMorgan PartnersÕpublic and privateportfolios were negatively affected by the

market conditions in 2001. Unrealized

losses of $1,857 million more than off-

set realized gains of $675 million for the

year. Many of the losses were attributa-

ble to write-downs in the values of thetelecommunications companies in theportfolio. At the same time, sluggish M&A
and IPO market activity negatively affect-

ed JPMPÕs ability to exit investments, sig-

nificantly slowing the pace of realized
gains. However, JPMorgan Chase continues

to believe that JPMPÕs unique approach

to investing across industries, types of

investments and regions will lead to 

positive shareholder value added (ÒSVAÓ)

and improved returns in the future.
Expense managementThe Firm aggressively reduced expenses

in 2001 through both merger-related and

right-sizing initiatives. Cash operating
expenses in 2001 were reduced $1.9 bil-

lion from a pro forma 2000 base which

assumes that the purchase of Robert

Fleming Holdings Limited (ÒFlemingsÓ)
occurred at the beginning of 2000.

Expense reductions exceeded the original

management target to hold expenses
flat. Expense reductions occurred in busi-

nesses that were merging and which also

had to align their costs with lower rev-

enues. Businesses of the Firm not directly

affected by the merger also focused on

efficiency gains through the use of tools

like Six Sigma. EarningsROCEEPS
(a)Year ended December 31,Over/(under)Over/(under)Over/(under)
(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
200120002001200020012000Investment Bank$2,945(16)%15.1%(320)bp
Treasury & Securities Services693Ñ23.6(40)Investment Management & Private Banking 
467(18)7.5(550)Retail & Middle Market Financial Services
1,688(5)19.5(110)Support Units/Corporate
(507)(52)NMNMCash operating earnings(excluding JPMP)
5,286(15)14.9(650) $2.58(17)%JPMP(1,148)NMNMNM(0.57)NMCash operating earnings4,138
(36)9.8(780)2.01(38)Amortization of intangibles(729)38NMNM(0.36)33Operating earnings3,409
(42)8.1(800)1.65(44)Restructuring/merger costs
and special items(1,715)NMNMNM(0.85)NMNet income$1,694
(70)%3.9%(1,170)bp
$0.80(72)%(a)Presented on a diluted basis.
bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.

NM-Not meaningful.
26JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co
.managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Risk management The Firm focuses on risk distribution andon diversification, with a significant
weighting of its credit portfolios toward

investment-grade companies. The FirmÕs

ability to assist its clients in risk manage-
ment was affirmed this year by various

industry publicationsÕ awards. 
The Firm is operating in a recessionary
environment. For the first time in many

years, the loan loss provision exceeded

loan charge-offs, leading to a higher loan

loss allowance. Nonperforming assets rose

substantially in 2001. The FirmÕs focus is

on distribution of credit and on continu-

ing the reduction of its commercial credit

exposure, both on- and off-balance sheet.

The capacity and willingness to extend

JPMorgan ChaseÕs balance sheet to clients

is an important competitive advantage.The Firm enters 2002 with the momen-tum of declining expenses. The 2001
fourth quarter operating expense run
rate of $19.6 billion (which is the annu-
alized amount of fourth quarter expens-
es adjusted for full-year incentives) is
almost $3 billion lower than the run rate
in the fourth quarter of 2000. This
reduction was driven by merger savingsand other cost reductions as well as

lower incentives resulting from the

decline in revenues. In 2001, manage-

ment increased the original target of

merger expense savings and cost reduc-

tions related to right-sizing efforts from

$2.0 billion to $3.8 billion; 100% of
these savings are anticipated to be real-

ized by the end of 2002. The merger
and restructuring costs related to achiev-

ing these additional savings also increased.

For a more detailed discussion, refer to

page 44 and Note 6 on page 73.Capital managementThe Firm is committed to maintaining
strong capital ratios, including a Tier 1

capital ratio in the range of 8% to
8.25%. At the end of 2001, the ratio
was 8.3%.SVA discipline is applied to all invest-
ments and remains a critical performance

metric for evaluating transactions and
segment results. In July 2001, the Board

of Directors authorized the repurchase 

of up to $6 billion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs

common stock, net of issuance for
employee benefit plans. For a further 
discussion of the FirmÕs repurchase pro-

gram, refer to the Capital management

section on page 46.0100999897010002000
30004000
50005000Cash operating margin excluding JPMP $11,413$11,840$11,551$9,705(in millions)Despite a decline in revenue in 2001, 
management continues to execute its financial 
discipline of balancing expense growth with 
that of revenue É$9,249$2,500$4,500$6,500$8,500$10,500$12,500$(1,000)$0$1,000$2,0000100999897JPMP cash earnings (loss)
$1,781$(1,148)$692$655(in millions)É however, the Firm's 2001 results were unfavorably affected by the weak markets and general 
slowdown in the economy as reflected by losses at JPMorgan Partners and higher credit costs.
010002000
30004000
500050000100999897JPMorgan Chase credit costs
(a) (in millions)$258(a) Includes provision for loan losses and credit costs  related to the securitized credit card portfolio.
$0$1,000$2,000$3,000$4,000$5,000$2,439$4,233$2,367$2,601$1,797JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
27The Firm prepares its financial statements
using generally accepted accounting princi-
ples (ÒGAAPÓ) in the United States of
America. The primary financial statements

prepared in accordance with GAAP appear

on pages 65-68 of this Annual Report. 

This presentation, which is referred to as

Òreported basis,Ó
provides the reader
with an understanding of the FirmÕs results

that can be consistently tracked from year

to year and enables a comparison of the

FirmÕs performance with other companiesÕ

GAAP financial statements.In addition to analyzing the FirmÕs results
on a reported basis, management utilizes

Òoperating basisÓto assess each of its
businesses and to measure overall Firm

results against targeted goals. The defini-tion of operating basis starts with the
reported GAAP results and then excludes
the impact of merger and restructuring

costs and special items, which usually are

significant nonrecurring gains or losses.

Management generally defines Òspecial
itemsÓ as nonrecurring revenue or expense

events of $50 million or more. Both
restructuring charges and special items are
viewed by management as transactions

that are not part of the FirmÕs normal daily

business operations or are unusual in

nature and are therefore not indicative 

of trends.
Operating results also exclude the impact
of credit card securitizations. JPMorgan

Chase periodically securitizes a portion of
its credit card portfolio by selling a pool of

credit card receivables to a trust, which

issues securities to investors. When credit

card receivables are securitized, the Firm

ceases to accrue interest and credit costs

on the receivables and, instead, receives

net fee revenue for continuing to service

those receivables. As a result, securitization

does not affect JPMorgan ChaseÕs reported

or operating net income; however, it does

affect the classification of items in the

Consolidated statement of income.Management also utilizes the term Ócashoperating earnings,Ó
defined as operat-ing earnings excluding the impact of

amortization of intangibles.Reconciliation of reported financials to operating results
20012000Year ended December 31,Reported CreditSpecial Operating Reported CreditSpecial Operating
(in millions,except per share data)basis
(a)card(b)items(c)basisbasis
(a)card(b)items(c)basisIncome statementRevenue$29,050$1,048$Ñ$30,098
$32,934$990$(1,131)$32,793
Noninterest expense:Cash expense(d)20,047ÑÑ20,047
20,865ÑÑ20,865
Amortization of intangibles729ÑÑ729
528ÑÑ528
Merger and restructuring costs2,523Ñ(2,523)Ñ
1,431Ñ(1,431)Ñ
Noninterest expense23,299Ñ(2,523)20,776
22,824Ñ(1,431)21,393
Credit costs(e)3,1851,048Ñ4,233
1,377990Ñ2,367
Income before income tax expenseand effect of accounting change2,566Ñ2,5235,089
8,733Ñ3009,033
Income tax expense 847Ñ8331,680
3,006Ñ1003,106
Income before accounting change
1,719Ñ1,6903,409
5,727Ñ2005,927
Net effectof 
accounting change(25)Ñ25Ñ
ÑÑÑÑ
Net income $1,694$Ñ$1,715$3,409
$5,727$Ñ$200$5,927
Add back:amortization of intangibles
729ÑÑ729
528ÑÑ528
Cash earnings $2,423$Ñ$1,715$4,138
$6,255$Ñ$200$6,455
Net income per share Ð diluted
$0.80$1.65
$2.86$2.96
Cash earnings per share Ð diluted1.162.01
3.133.23
(a) Represents condensed version of JPMorgan ChaseÕs GAAPfinancial statements.
(b) Represents the impact of credit card securitizations.For receivables that have been securitized,amounts that would have bee
n reported as net interest income and as provision for loan losses areinstead reported as components of noninterest revenue.
(c) Includes merger and restructuring costs,and special items.For a description of special items,see Glossary of terms on page 
101.(d) Represents managementÕs definition of total noninterest expense less amortization of intangibles and merger and restructuri
ng costs.
(e) Credit costs on a reported basis represent the provision for loan losses on the Consolidated statement of income.
Commencing January 1, 2002, the Firm adopted SFAS 142. Adoption of that

accounting standard will eliminate the

need for management, in assessing the
FirmÕs performance, to add back the

amortization of intangibles, as GAAP
reported results will become substantially
closer to cash earnings. For a further dis-

cussion of the impact of SFAS 142, see

the Accounting and reporting develop-

ments section on page 62.Within the MD&A section of the AnnualReport, particularly the Segment results on

pages 28-41 and the consolidated Results

of operations for the Firm on pages 42-45,

management provides a discussion of the

results for 2001 and 2000 as well as acomparative discussion of the results for

2000pro forma
. The 2000 pro forma
results assume that the purchase of
Flemings occurred at the beginning of

2000 rather than at the time of purchase

in August 2000. The following summary table provides a 
reconciliation between the FirmÕs reported
and its operating and cash operating results. 
28JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co
.managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Segment results
The table below provides summary financial information on a cash operating basis for the five major business segments. Manageme
nt tracksthe operating performance of the Firm both including and excluding the results of JPMP. Management believes that it is more inf
ormative toanalyze separately the results of JPMP and the results of the Firm excluding JPMP as the basis for valuing the Firm. 
For the businesses that were affected by the Flemings acquisition, all comparisons with 2000 are on a pro forma basis, which as
sumes that thepurchase of Flemings occurred at the beginning of 2000. See Note 29 for further information about JPMorgan ChaseÕs five busines
s segments.The wholesale commercial and private banking businesses are known globally as ÒJPMorganÓ and encompass the
Investment Bank, Treasury & Securities Services, Investment Management & Private Banking and JPMorgan

Partners. The retail businesses of JPMorgan Chase are known as ÒChase,Ó consisting of Retail & Middle Market

Financial Services. Product type:¥Market making,
trading & investing:
- Interest rate 
& FX markets
- Equity markets

- Credit markets
¥Strategic advisory
¥Equity &debt 
underwriting¥Corporate lending
Businesses:¥Investment Management¥Private BankingBusinesses:¥Institutional Trust

Services¥Investor Services¥Treasury ServicesRetail & Middle Market 

Financial ServicesBusinesses:¥Cardmember
Services¥Regional Banking
Group
¥Home Finance
¥Middle Markets
¥Auto FinanceSegment results
Treasury &Investment Management
Investment BankSecurities Services& Private Banking
Year ended December 31,Over/(under)Over/(under)Over/(under)
(in millions,except ratios)
20012000Pro forma 2000
(b)2001200020012000Pro forma 2000
(b)Operating revenue
$14,899(7)%(11)%
$3,6322%$3,085(8)%(20)%
Cash operating expense
8,978(11)(16)
2,56332,486(1)(13)
Cash operating margin
5,921Ñ(2)1,069(1)599(29)(40)
Credit costs1,155353328
810016(38)(38)
Cash operating earnings
2,945(16)(18)
693Ñ467(18)(30)
Average common equity
19,3123(4)2,91226,07742(7)
Average managed assets
511,0348718,053934,14912(4)
Shareholder value added
601(49)(48)
339(1)(272)NM(119)
Cash ROCE15.1%(320)bp(260)bp
23.6%(40)bp
7.5%(550)bp(260)bp
Cash overhead ratio
60(300)(400)
7110081600700
(a)  Includes support units and the effects remaining at the corporate level after the application of management accounting pol
icies.
(b)Pro forma results assume that the purchase of Flemings occurred at the beginning of 2000.

bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.

NM-Not meaningful.
¥Private equity investmentsJPMorgan ChaseInvestment BankInvestment 
Management
& Private BankingJPMorgan 
Partners
Treasury& Securities 
ServicesJPMorgan is the brand name.
Chase is the brand name.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
29JPMorgan ChaseÕs segment results reflect
the manner in which financial informa-
tion currently is evaluated by the FirmÕs

management. The Firm allocates equity to its businessunits utilizing a risk-adjusted methodology,

which quantifies credit, market and oper-

ating risks within each business and, for
JPMP, private equity risk. For a discussion

of those risks, see the Risk management
section on pages 45-62. The Firm also

allocates equity to its businesses incorpo-
rating an Òasset capital taxÓ on managed
assets and some off-balance sheet instru-
ments. In addition, businesses are allocat-

ed equity equal to 100% of goodwill and
certain intangibles generated through

acquisitions.For the Firm, the SVA framework applies 
a 12% cost of equity. To derive SVA for

businesses, JPMorgan Chase applies a
12% cost of equity for all businesses
except JPMorgan Partners. This business 
is charged a 15% cost of equity. All prior

periods have been restated to conform

with the current presentation. 
The capital elements and resultant capital
charges provide the businesses with the

financial framework to evaluate the trade-
off between the use of capital by the 

business unit versus its return to the share-

holders. The capital charges are an integral

part of the SVA measurement for each

business. See Glossary of terms on page
101 for a definition of SVA. 
Restatements of segment results may occur
in future periods to reflect further align-

ment of management accounting policies
or changes in organizational structure

among businesses.Segment results (continued)
JPMorgan ChaseJPMorgan Chase
Retail & Middle Market
operating resultsoperating results
Financial Servicesexcluding JPMP(a)JPMorgan Partners
including JPMPOver/(under)Over/(under)Over/(under)Over/(under)
20012000200120002001200020012000Pro forma 2000
(b)$10,9157%$31,555(1)%$(1,457)NM%$30,098(8)%(12)%
5,468419,715(4)326(20)20,047(4)(8)
5,4471111,8403(1,783)NM10,051(16)(17)
2,803354,23379ÑNM4,2337978
1,688(5)5,286(15)(1,148)NM4,138(36)(38)
8,582Ñ35,147236,377(15)41,524155
165,43212742,283911,665(12)753,94886645(13)1,203(59)(2,114)NM(911)NMNM
19.5%(110)bp
14.9%(650)bp
NMNM9.8%(780)bp(670)bp
50(200) 62(200)NMNM67300300
Operating revenues
(in millions)00   01(in millions)IBJPMP
T&SSIMPBRMMFS
00   01 00   0100   0100   01
00   01IBJPMP
T&SSIMPBRMMFS
00   0100   0100   0100   01
$(1,000)$4,000Cash operating earnings
$(4,000)$0$4,000$8,000$12,000$16,000$0$1,000$2,000$3,000$16,737$3,564$3,842$10,176$10,915$14,899$3,632$3,085$693$467$1,688$(1,148)$693$666$1,785$3,610$2,945$258$789$(1,457)Contribution of businesses (2000 results are on a pro forma basis where applicable) 
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
2930JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co
.managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Financial results overview
In a challenging market environment in
2001, the Investment BankÕs cash operat-

ing margin declined 2% from last yearÕs

pro forma results. Operating revenue

declined 11%, driven by the substantial
reduction in market activity for M&A andequity underwriting. This was largely off-

set by a 16% decline in cash expenses
from the prior year. The Investment Bank
met its 2001 overhead ratio target of
60%, which was down from 64% a year

ago. Resultsi
ncluded approximately $800
million in pre-
tax charges related to Enron
and Argentina as well as higher loan
charge-offs and additions to the loan loss

allowance. As a result of these factors,

cash operating earnings
declined 18%.Financial line-item discussion
Trading-related revenues
, which includetrading-related net interest income, were

lower by 10%. The decline was primarily
attributable to lower equity-related trading

results, driven by lower margins in equitysecurities and reduced demand for equity

derivatives. Also contributing to the
decline was $359 million of losses related

to exposure to Enron 
and Argentina infixed incometrading. Excluding the effects
of Enron and Argentina, fixed income and

other trading was up 3%, as weakerper-

formance in emerging markets was more

than offset by strong results in interest

rate trading products.
Investment banking feeswere 20%
lower than last year, driven by the overall

market decline in equity underwriting and

M&A activities. These declines were partially

offset by record investment-grade bond

underwriting fees. Advisory revenues
declined 34%, while overall market volume
was down 50%. The Investment Bank
increased its market share in global

announced M&A transactions during 2001.Underwriting and other feesdeclined10%, reflecting significantly lower equity

underwriting activity, partially offset by

higher bond underwriting fees. Record

bond issuance for the market was driven
by the favorable interest rate market 

environment.
Selected financial dataOver/(under)Year ended December 31,Pro forma
(in millions,except ratios)
20012000(a)Revenue:Trading-related revenue$6,184(10)%Investment banking fees3,610(20)Net interest income3,09214Fees and commissions1,501(21)All other revenue512(31)Operating revenue14,899
(11)Cash operating expense8,978
(16)Cash operating margin5,921
(2)Amortization of intangibles142(7)Credit costs1,155328Cash operating earnings$
2,945(18)%Average common equity
$19,312(4)%Average assets
511,0347Shareholder value added
601(48) Cash ROCE15.1%(260)bpCash overhead ratio
60(400)Compensation as a % of operating revenue
39(300)(a)Pro forma results assume that the purchase of
Flemings occurred at the beginning of 2000.bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
2001 highlights¥Increased market share in M&A transactions and maintained key leadership
positions in debt underwriting¥Exceeded original expense savings target by $1.4 billion¥Overhead ratio improved to 60% from 64% despite a stronger market
environment in 2000 than 2001
Investment BankPro forma20012000Trading-related revenue:
Equities$1,210$1,699Fixed income and other4,9745,200Total $
6,184$6,899Investment banking fees:Advisory$1,252$1,894Underwriting and other fees2,3582,608Total $
3,610$4,502¥Strategic advisory¥Equity &debt underwriting
¥Corporate lending Combining the best of investment and commercial banking, the
Investment Bank serves the financial needs of corporations, finan-
cial institutions, governments and institutional investors. It uses

an integrated delivery model that leverages scale, global presence

and broad leadership positions. The Investment Bank advises on

corporate strategy, raises capital and designs risk management

solutions. It also provides market making and distribution of a

broad range of financial instruments.
¥Market making, trading & investing:- Interest rate & FX markets
- Equity markets
- Credit markets
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
31Important leadership positions were main-
tained in leveraged and syndicated lending
(ranked No.1) and U.S. investment-grade
debt underwriting (No. 2). The Investment
BankÕs equity underwriting business lost

market share relative to the prior year, but

increased market share in each of the quar-

ters of 2001,culminating with a market

share of 8% 
(ranked No. 6) in the 2001fourth quarter. In addition, the Investment

Bank was named ÒBank of the YearÓ 

by International Financing ReviewandÒDerivatives House of the YearÓ by 

Risk magazine.The increase in 
net interest income
of14% from last year was primarily due to

the FirmÕs interest rate risk management in

a declining rate environment.
Dimensions of revenue diversification
Underwritingfees
16%Creditmarkets
8%Credit
portfolio
8%Equity
markets 

15%Interest rate& FX markets
45%Media andtelecommunications17%Financialinstitutions47%General 
industries
36%NorthAmerica53%Asia/ 
Pacific10%Latin
America
4%Europe33%Advisoryfees
8%By geographic region
By client segmentBy product class
Fees and commissionsdeclined 21%from the prior year, reflecting lower equity

brokerage commissions.
The decrease in 
all other revenue
wasattributable to negative valuation adjust-
ments taken against syndicated loans
that are held for sale. Partly offsetting 

the decrease were higher gains on sales

of available-for-sale securities as part 

of the FirmÕs interest rate risk manage-

ment activity.
Cash operating expensedeclined 16%from 2000. Included in the decline was

the impact of reduced headcount and

lower incentive compensation expense.
Compensation as a percentage of revenue

decreased from 42% in 2000 to 39% 

in 2001 despite lower revenues. Since 
the merger announcement date, theInvestment Bank has reduced staff levels

by approximately 6,700, or 23% of total

headcount, contributing to the Investment
BankÕs ability to meet its 2001 overhead

ratio target of 60%.Credit costs
increased 328%, reflecting
the impact, in general, of the recession on

the FirmÕs credit portfolio and, in particular,

charge-offs for Enron of $221 million and

a provision for Argentina of $140 million.
Average total assetswere $511 billion,
an increase of 7%, reflecting growth in

fixed income trading assets, partially offset

by a decline in commercial loans and

investment securities. Average commonequitydeclined by 4% from last year as a
result of lower operating risk capital, asso-ciated with the Investment BankÕs lower

expense base.The economic outlook remains uncertain,
and revenue levels for the Investment Bank

in 2002 will be heavily influenced by the
speed and extent of the economic recovery.
Market shares and rankings
(a)20012000December 31,Market shareRankingMarket shareRanking
Global syndicated loans(b)26.0%#1
22.9%#1
U.S.investment-grade bonds
14.8#2
16.4#2
Euro-denominated high grade bonds
7.0#3
5.0#7
Global announced M&A22.3#5
16.7#6
U.S.equity & equity-related4.2#8
5.3#6
(a)Derived from Thomson Financial Securities Data.Global announced M&A based on rank value;all others based on pro-
ceeds,with full credit to each book manager/equal if joint.Because of joint assignments,market share of all participants

will add up to more than 100%.(b)In 2001,data reflect the Bookrunner title for all regions.Data before 2001 combined the Bookrunner title in the Americas
with the Mandated Arranger title elsewhere,since global Bookrunner data were not published.
32JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co
.managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Financial results overview
Treasury & Securities ServicesÕ cashoperating earnings
remained virtuallyflat, compared with 2000, with growth 

in Institutional Trust Services of 22% and

Treasury Services of 11% offset by a
decline in Investor Services of 17%.
These results reflected the impact of

weaknesses in the economy and financial
markets. Significant declines in interest

rates and reduced equity market prices

depressed many revenue sources. Partially

offsetting these declines were the posi-

tive effects, especially in Institutional

Trust Services, of greater volumes of debt
issuance and market share gains in sever-

al key product lines. The net result was

revenue growth of 15% in Institutional
Trust Services and of 3% in Treasury
ServicesÑin line with historical growth

ratesÑand a revenue decline of 4% in

Investor Services, which had realized

high growth rates in previous years due

to more favorable market conditions. 
Financial line-item discussion
Fees and commissionsincreased 6%,
primarily due to higher fees in Institutional
Trust Services. 
Institutional Trust Services
earns fees from the issuance and payment

of debt securities, servicing secondary
market loan programs 
for governmental
entities, and maintaining American
depositary receipt programsfor foreign

issuers. The increase in fees in 2001 was

attributable to successful sales in the
expanding collateralized debt obligation

market and the acquisition of Colson
Services Corp. (ÒColsonÓ), a recordkeeper

and loan servicer providing outsourcing

support to government agencies. Treasury

ServicesÕ clients shifted their payment
method to fees rather than maintain
compensating balances in a low interest

rate environment. These increases were

offset by lower revenues at Investor

Services, as fees based on equity values

and the volume of transactions declined.  Selected financial dataYear ended December 31,Over/(under)(in millions,except ratios)
20012000Revenue:Fees and commissions$2,0596%Net interest income1,391(1)All other revenue182(19)Operating revenue3,632
2Cash operating expense2,563
3Cash operating margin1,069
(1)Amortization of intangibles8217Credit costs8100Cash operating earnings$693
ÑAverage common equity
$2,9122%Average assets
18,0539Shareholder value added
339(1) Cash ROCE23.6%(40)bpCash overhead ratio
71100bp- Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
2001 highlights¥Institutional Trust Services continued to grow at double-digit rates assisted by
acquisitions¥Revenues at Investor Services were negatively affected by the downturn in the 
global equity markets¥Treasury Services realized double-digit growth in operating earnings and a
reduced cash overhead ratio through strong expense management despite low
revenue growth
$2,500$3,000$3,500$4,000Total revenue
(in millions)9798990001
CAGR = 8.2%
$2,885$3,156$3,564$3,632$2,648Treasury & Securities ServicesTreasury & Securities Services iscomposed of three businesses:

Institutional Trust Services

provides a range of fiduciary

services to debt and equity
issuers and various intermedi-
aries, from traditional trustee

and paying agent to global

securities and other adminis-
trative services; InvestorServicesprovides securities
custody and related services,

such as securities lending 

and investment analytics and
reporting for mutual funds,investment managers, pension
funds, insurance companies

and banks worldwide;
Treasury Servicesprovides
treasury and cash management,

as well as payment, liquidity

management and trade
finance services for a diversi-
fied client base of corporations,
financial institutions and 

governments worldwide.
5 year compound annual growth rate by T&SS businesses
2%12%16%18%12%TreasuryServicesInvestorServicesInstitutionalTrust Services  0%  6%JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
33The decline in all other revenue
of19% was attributable to lower foreign

exchange revenue, driven by the decrease

in clientsÕ global trading activities at
Investor Services. Also contributing to
the decline was the effect of the divesti-

ture by Institutional Trust Services of a

company involved in stock transfer. 
Cash operating expensegrew modestly
from 2000, reflecting strategic invest-

ments in all three businesses, partly off-

set by tighter expense control, primarily

in Treasury Services and Investor Services.

The 3% expense growth, coupled with

2% revenue growth, slightly increased

the cash overhead ratio to 71%.
Treasury & Securities ServicesÕ long-termcash overhead ratio target is 65%.18%20%22%24%0100999897Treasury & Securities Servicescash return on common equity 
23.6%24.0%22.8%21.3%19.2%Treasury & Securities ServicesTreasury ServicesInstitutional Trust Services
Investor Services¥Treasury and cash management¥Payment and liquidity management¥Trade finance services¥Debt issuing and payment services¥Securities settlement and clearing¥American depositary receipts
¥Specialty trust services¥Securities custody¥Related services:-Securities lending-Investment analytics and reporting
-Fund accountingNet interest income
decreased slightly,
reflecting compressed spreads on deposits
as a result of lower interest rates and

the impact of lower compensating bal-
ances. This was partially offset by higher

deposit levels at Institutional Trust Services

associated with new clients processing

their debt payments.The events of September 11thcaused
Treasury &Securities ServicesÕ demand
deposits and noninterest-bearing deposits

to grow significantly as customers looked

to depository institutions to hold their
cash funds. By the end of 2001, these
cash balances had returned to pre-

September 11th levels.
InvestorServices43%Institutional Trust Services20%Non-bank 
financial
institutions
41%Corporations 
19%Asia9%The Americas 63%Europe,

Middle East
& Africa
28%TreasuryServices
37%MiddleMarket 11%
Governments 10%Banks 19%By business revenuesBy client segment 
(a)By geographic region
(a) Represents relationships as a percentage of revenues.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
3334JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co
.managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Financial results overview
Investment Management & PrivateBankingÕs 
cash operating earnings
were 30% lower than last year. Lower

revenues were only partially offset by
lower expenses. Revenues decreased

due to declines in the value of assets
under management, lower international

retail fund flows and a reduction in 
brokerage 
account volumes. InvestmentManagementr
evenues of $1.37 billiondecreased 23%, and Private Banking

revenues of $1.72 billion declined 16%from 2000. For the year, the percentage

of cash operating earnings before taxes

to total operating revenue declined to

19% from 25% in 2000; the businessÕs

long-term target is 30%.Financial line-item discussion
Fees and commissionswere 12%
lower than the prior year, reflecting the

lower value of assets under manage-
ment and lower associated investment
management fees, and the shift from

higher-margin equities to fixed income

and money market products. In addi-

tion, brokerage 
commissions declined asprivate banking clients executed fewer
transactions in 2001. Partially offsetting

these factors were gains realized from

new inflows to money market funds.The decline in net interest income
of16% reflected the impact of lower

short-term interest rates on the spread

on client deposits.   
Operating revenues 
Private
Banking
55%InvestmentManagement
45%Selected financial dataOver/(under)Year ended December 31,Pro forma
(in millions,except ratios)
20012000(a)Revenue:Fees and commissions$2,300(12)%Net interest income547(16)All other revenue238(58)Operating revenue3,085
(20)Cash operating expense2,486
(13)Credit costs16(38)Cash pre-tax margin583
(40)Amortization of intangibles28999Cash operating earnings$467
(30)%Average common equity
$6,077(7)%Average assets
34,149(4)Shareholder value added
(272)(119) Cash ROCE7.5%(260)bpTangible cash ROCE26(600)Cash pre-tax margin19(600)(a)Pro forma results assume that the purchase of
Flemings occurred at the beginning of 2000.bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
2001 highlights¥Assets under management declined 5%; money market funds experiencedsignificant inflows 
¥Revenue declined 20%, and expenses declined 13%  ¥Actions taken in 2001 provide a solid basis for margin expansion in the future
All other revenue
was lower by 58%,primarily as a result of the decline in

trading volumes. Earnings from the

FirmÕs 45% investment in American

Century Companies, Inc. (ÒAmerican
CenturyÓ) also declined.Cash operating expensedecreased
13% as a result of merger synergies and

the elimination of approximately 1,500

positions since the merger announcement
date.W
ith the merger integration essen-tially completed in IMPB, the business is
positioned to benefit from future

improvement in market conditions.
The increase in 
amortization of intan-giblesto $289 million reflected the full-
year impact of the Flemings acquisition.Average assetsfor the year were $34 
billion, a decline of 4% from the prior year,

primarily reflecting lower equity-related

lending. For 2001, average commonequitydecreased 7%.
Investment Management & Private BankingAssets under managementwere $605 billion. 
InvestmentManagementdelivers expertiseand advice across all asset

classes and global markets to
private and public sector insti-

tutional investors, high net

worth individuals, and retail

customers. The 
Private Bankdelivers personalized advice
and solutions to wealthy indi-

viduals and families.JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
35Assets under management(a)At December 31,(in billions)
20012000CLIENT SEGMENT:
Private banking
$141$152Institutional 404424Retail6062Total $605$638GEOGRAPHIC REGION:Americas$441$440Europe and Asia
164198Total $605$638PRODUCT CLASS:Fixed income and short-term investments$329$297Equities and other276341Total $605$638Total Client Positions
(b)Private banking
$302$342(a)Assets under management represent assets actively managed by IMPB on behalf of institutional and private banking clients.Exc
ludesassets managed by American Century.
(b)Total private banking client positions represent assets under management ($141 billion at December 31,2001) as well as
custody,restricted stock,deposit,brokerage and loan accounts.
Assets under managementatDecember 31, 2001 declined 5% from

the prior year-end, primarily as a result 

of market depreciation. However, during

2001, inflows into assets under manage-
ment were driven by a significant increase

in money market assets, as investors shifted

toward lower-risk assets. The result was

approximately $45 billion in new flows

into global money market funds. The
accompanying table demonstrates the
diversification across asset classes and

geographic regions, which has helped

mitigate market volatility. 
Diversification of IMPB's $605 billion of assets under management at December 31, 2001Fixed incomeand short-term
investments 54%
(up from 47% 
last year)Europe/
Asia
27%Private
Banking23%Retail
10%Institutional67%Americas73%By client segmentBy geographic region
By product class
Equities & other 46%(down from 53%
last year)36JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co
.managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Selected financial dataYear ended December 31,(in millions)20012000Revenue:Private equity gains (losses)
$(1,182)$988Net interest income(335)(309)All other revenue60110Operating revenue(1,457)
789Cash operating expense326
405Cash operating margin(1,783)
384Amortization of intangibles2721Cash operating earnings$(1,148)
$258Average common equity
$6,377$7,526Average assets
11,66513,319Shareholder value added
(2,114)(888) 2001 highlights¥Private equity losses of $1.2 billion, driven primarily by $1.7 billion in write-downs and write-offs taken across the private investment portfolio
¥Significant decline in new investment activity given adverse market conditions¥Closed on $1.5 billion of third-party investor commitments for the J.P. Morgan
Partners Global Investors, L.P. (Global Fund)
Financial results overview
JPMorgan Partners recognized a cash
operating loss of $1.1 billion in 2001.
The portfolio was negatively affected by 

a decline in valuations of private securi-
ties and the downturn in the public equity

markets, particularly securities in the tele-
communications, media and technology
(ÒTMTÓ) sector. 
Financial line-item discussion
Private equity gains (losses)
JPMPÕs portfolio recorded a loss of $1.2

billion in 2001 consisting of losses in
direct investments ($0.9 billion), private

funds ($0.2 billion) and from hedging

transactions ($0.1 billion). During the
year, unrealized losses from portfolio

revaluations more than offset income
from realization activities. Despite limited

exit opportunities, JPMP generated realized

cash gains of over $1.0 billion from sales

of investments, including approximately

$0.9 billion from public and private

direct investments and $0.1 billion from
JPMorgan Partners
fund investments. Realized cash gains
were recognized across all industries,

with significant gains harvested from

investments in the energy sector. 
Duringthe fourth quarter of 2001, JPMP com-
pleted significant selldowns of two public
TMT holdings, generating realized cash

gains of over $125 million.JPMPÕs realized gains were more than
offset by valuation actions taken across

the private portfolio and mark-to-market
losses recorded in the public portfolio.

Valuation actions included net write-downs and write-offs of $1.4 billion on

private direct securities and $0.3 billion

on private fund investments. JPMPÕs pri-

vate direct TMT investments from 1999
and 2000 currently are valued at 50%
of initial cost. In 2001, JPMP also
recorded unrealized losses of $0.5 bil-
lion from mark-to-market losses on its

public portfolio. Other revenue
includes third-party man-
agement fees and net revenue allocated to

or from other JPMorgan Chase businesses.

While management fee revenue was stable

year over year, net intersegment revenue in

2001 included fees paid to other areas of

the Firm for services associated with the
raising of third-party funding and asset sale

activities. JPMorgan PartnersÕcash operating
expensesin 2001 decreased 20%, driven
by a decline in compensation expenses.
Investment pace, portfolio diversification and capital under 
management
For 2001, JPMorgan PartnersÕ investment
pace declined 65% from last year to $0.9

billion as JPMP adopted a more cautious

approach to new investments in light of

the depressed market conditions. 
20012000Realized gains (losses):Cash gains$1,030$2,340Write-offs(355)(299)Subtotal6752,041Unrealized gains (losses):
Public mark-to-market
$(520)(a)$(1,097)Private write-downs
(1,337)44Subtotal(1,857)(1,053)Private equity gains (losses)$(1,182)
$988(a)Includes the impact of portfolio hedging activities.
JPMorgan Partners, the global private equity organization of JPMorgan Chase, provides equity and 
mezzanine capital financing to private and public companies. It invests throughout the entire life cycle of

the business development process, with the objective of creating long-term value for the Firm and its 

third-party investors.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
37JPMP investment portfolioDecember 31,2001 
Carrying(in millions)valueCost
Public securities (163 companies)(a)$ 998$802
Private direct securities 
(959 companies)6,2897,544
Private fund investments 
(338 funds)(b)1,9102,182
Total investment portfolio $9,197$10,528
(a)Quoted public value was $1,389 million,or 1.7
times original cost,at December 31,2001.
(b)At December 31,2001,JPMP had $2,328 million of
unfundedcommitments to these private equity funds.
Public securities investments at December 31, 2001(a)(dollars and shares in millions)QuotedSymbolSharespublic valueCost
Triton PCS Holdings,Inc.TPC16.0$469$70
TeleCorp PCS(b)TLCP7.7965
Fisher Scientific International,Inc.FSH3.08627

dj Orthopedics,Inc.DJO5.97854

Packaging Corp of AmericaPKG3.97018
Encore Acquisition CompanyEAC4.96534

Guitar Center Inc.GTRC4.76350

1-800 FLOWERS.COM,Inc.FLWS3.96114

American Tower Corp.AMT5.95519

Crown Media Holdings Inc.CRWN2.73140
Top 10 public securities1,074331
Other public securities (153 companies)315471
Total public securities (163 companies) Ð carrying value $998 million
(c)$1,389$802
(a)Publicly traded positions only.
(b)Does not include 3.7 million shares held directly by the holding company,received upon a distribution from JPMP.

(c)For a discussion of how the Firm determines the carrying value,see Note 27.
At December 31, 2001, JPMPÕs investment
portfolio was $9.2 billion, a declineof

$2.6 billion from year-end 2000. The

decline from last year was primarily the

result of reductions in carrying values
due to valuation adjustments and sales

activities. The decline in JPMPÕs assets

resulted in a 15% decline in common
equity allocated to JPMP.
At December 31, 2001, TMT investmentswere $2.5 billion, down 40% from

December 31, 2000; they represented

27% of JPMPÕs holdings. ManagementÕs

goal is to decrease TMT investments

while increasing the industrial and con-

sumer sectors. The Firm believes that JPMorgan Partners will continue to create value over time.

Given the volatile nature of the markets,

and the NASDAQ market in particular,

JPMPÕs reported results for any period

may include significant public securities
unrealized gains or losses. The Firm

makes no assumptions about the unreal-

ized gains or losses that may be experi-enced by the JPMP portfolio.JPMP's diversified equity portfolio by industry group
(a)% carrying value as of December 31, 2001
      Telecommunications,      Life sciences        
Industrial            Consumer        Real  FinancialFunds
      media & technology                       
growth
             retail         estate  services
0001
0001
0001
0001
0001
0001
0001
        Public         Private 
2000    200120%(a) Represents JPMP's total investment portfolio, by industry, excluding third-party private fund investments.
$4.1$2.5$0.8$0.7$2.3$2.0$1.0$1.1$0.5$0.4$0.7$0.6$2.4$1.9Amounts within the bars represent the carrying values of the investments. 
(in billions)40%30%10%0%20%40%30%10%0%38JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co
.managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Cash operating earnings by 
key businesses 2001CardmemberServices 
31%AutoFinance6%RegionalBanking Group27%Middle
Markets

16%Home Finance 20%Selected financial dataYear ended December 31,Over/(under)(in millions,except ratios)
20012000Revenue:Net interest income$6,94710%Fees and commissions2,859(9)Securities gains37850All other revenue73160Operating revenue10,915
7Cash operating expense
5,4684Cash operating margin
5,44711Amortization of intangibles181(8)Credit costs2,80335Cash operating earnings$
1,688(5)%Average common equity
$8,582ÑAverage managed assets
165,43212Shareholder value added
645(13) Cash ROCE19.5%(110)bp
Cash overhead ratio
50(200)bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
2001 highlights¥Achieved record origination volumes in Cardmember Services, Home Finance
and Auto Finance¥Achieved $145 million in expense reductions through expense initiatives
including an organization-wide Six Sigma effort
¥Significant increase in credit costs, driven by additions to the allowance for loan
losses and higher charge-offs 
¥Declining interest rates resulted in lower funding costs for consumer lending,
increased prepayments in the mortgage servicing portfolio and lower spreads

on depositsRetail & Middle Market Financial ServicesRetail & Middle MarketFinancial Services, through

branch networks (in the New
York tri-state area and Texas)
and national product compa-

nies, offers a complete range of

financial products and services

to consumers, small businesses
and middle market clients.
These products and services

include banking, credit cards,

loans (home, auto and education
finance), investment and 
insurance offerings.
¥Cardmember Services (CCS)
¥Regional Banking Group (RBG)
¥Home Finance (CHF)¥Middle Markets (MMBG)¥Auto Finance (CAF)Financial results overview
Retail & Middle Market FinancialServicesÕ2001 results were marked by solid
revenue growth and disciplined expense
management. Record originations drove 

revenues, while restructuring, Six Sigma and
other pr
oductivity efforts moderated expenses.
These actionswere 
unableto of
fset the negative impact of higher credit costs. As a
result, RMMFS realized a 5% declinein 
cashoperating earnings
from last year.
Financial line-item discussionNet interest income
grew 10% from a year
ago, driven by higher levels of consumer loans
resulting from record origination volumes
across all credit businesses (CCS, CHF and

CAF), partially offset by the lower spreads

earned on customer deposits due to the

decline in interest rates experienced in 2001.
Fees and commissionsdeclined 9%, reflecting
the negative impact of the increased level of

mortgage loan prepayments that occurred

because of lower interest rates. Prepayments

resulted in accelerated amortization and impair-ment of mortgage servicing rights. In CHF, this
was substantially offset by increased securi-

ties gains and other revenues. The decline in

fees and commissions was partially offset by

growth in credit card, mortgage and auto

loans outstanding, as well as by a higher uti-
lization of consumer banking and insurance
products and services, all of which generated

higher fees.The increase in 
securities gainsof 50%was attributable to sales of U.S. government

securities used as economic hedges of
mortgage servicing rights.All other revenue
increased by 60%, 
primarily as a result of record residential
mortgage sales activity to government
sponsored enterprises such as Fannie Mae,

Ginnie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
Cash expenserose 4%, reflecting the costs
associated with the growth in origination

volumes. The expense increase also included

the impact of the acquisition in 2001 of 
the mortgage business of Advanta Corp.
(ÒAdvantaÓ) and higher credit card market-

ing expenditures that helped generate a

record number of new accounts. Partially
offsetting these increases were $145 million

in savings achieved through r
estructuring,productivity and quality
programs, including
an organization-wide Six Sigma effort. This

disciplined expense management approach

helped reduce the cash overhead ratio to

50% from 52% one year ago.
Amortization of intangiblesdecreased
8% as a result of the sale of the Hong

Kong credit card business in 2000.
Credit costs
increased by 35% due to 
significant growth in credit card customer

bankruptcies, increased levels of delinquen-

cies resulting from the economic slowdown

in the U.S. and a higher level of consumer-

related receivables outstanding. RMMFS
added $310 million to its allowance for
loan losses in 2001 in response to the dete-

riorating credit conditions. For a further 

discussion of the consumer credit portfolio,

see pages 52-53. The impact of these events
was partially mitigated by more intense col-

lection efforts in all of the credit businesses.

In 2002, credit costs will be dependent upon

the conditions in the domestic economy.

RMMFS will continue to pursue collection
and risk management actions to mitigate
future credit losses.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
392001Over/(under) 2000
CashCash
Year ended December 31,OperatingCashoperatingOperatingCashoperating
(in millions,except ratios)revenuesexpenseearningsrevenuesexpenseearnings
Cardmember Services$4,427$1,445$595
17%9%16%
Regional Banking Group2,9852,031504
(5)(3)(8)
Home Finance1,611965371
222220
Middle Markets
1,199648299
(3)1(7)
Auto Finance540197123
6312215
Other consumer services(a)153182(204)
(59)(30)NM
Total$10,915$5,468$1,688
7%4%(5)%
(a)Includes discontinued operations,support services and unallocated credit costs.
NM-Not meaningful.
Business-related metrics
As of or for the year endedOver/(under)December 31,20012000Total deposits (in billions)$67
6%Total assets under management(a)(in billions)1004Number of branches 
531(2)Number of ATMs
1,907ÑNumber of online customers (in thousands)93744Cash overhead ratio  
68%100bp
(a)Assets under management includes deposits.
bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
Cardmember Services is the fifth largest
credit card issuer in the U.S., servicing

almost 24 million accounts. Cash operat-
ing earnings for 2001 were a record

$595 million, 16% greater than 2000.

Operating revenue increased $630 mil-

lion, or 17%, driven by the increase in

the number of cardholders, growth in

receivables and stronger customer pur-
chase volume. Also contributing to the
increase was the decline in the costs to

fund receivables. Cash expense increased

9% when compared with last year due

to higher marketing expenditures that

resulted in record originations of over 4
million new accounts, and higher busi-
ness volume-related expenses. Credit
costs rose 21% due to the impact of the
increase in receivables outstanding com-

bined with the slowdown in the econo-
my that affected the level of consumer

bankruptcies. The managed credit card-

related net charge-off ratio was 5.49%,
an increase of 36 basis points from 2000.

Managed credit card-related receivables

at December 31, 2001 increased 12% to

over $41 billion and total purchase vol-

ume, cash advances and balance trans-
fers increased 19% to over $72 billion.

The cash overhead ratio in 2001 improved

200 basis points to 33%.In the first quarter of 2002, Cardmember
Services acquired Providian National BankÕs

interest in the Pr
ovidian Master Trust,which includes a credit 
card portfolio of
Cardmember Services
Business-related metrics
As of or for the year ended December 31,Over/(under)(in billions,except ratios)
20012000End-of-period outstandings $41.612%Total purchases & cash advances
(a)7219Total accounts (in millions) 
23.915Net charge-off ratio
5.49%36bp
Cash overhead ratio  
33(200)Note:The above metrics include other consumer loans.
(a) Sum of total customer purchases,cash advances and
balance transfers.
bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
The Regional Banking Group is the No. 1
full-service bank based on deposits for
consumers and small businesses in the
New York tri-state area and is one of the

leading providers of financial services to

the consumer and small business sectors in
the FirmÕs Texas market. RBG provides

banking, investment, credit and insurance

services to 2.9 million consumers and
300,000 small businesses. RBG also offers

discount brokerage services through

Brown & Company, the 8th largest online

brokerage firm in the U.S. 
RBG had cash operating earnings of $504
million in 2001, down 8% from 2000,

driven by the declining interest rates and

lower customer trading volumes in theequities markets, which negatively affected
deposit spreads and discount brokerage

transactions revenue, respectively. Partially

offsetting these unfavorable items was the

growth in insurance sales, particularly

annuities. The lower interest rate environ-

ment also negatively affected the cash

overhead ratio increasing it 100 basis

points to 68%.Total client assets under management of$100 billion, including $67 billion in
deposits and $33 billion of investment
assets, grew 4% over 2000.
Cash expense declined $60 million, or 3%,from 2000. This decline reflected the results

of initiatives to realize continued productivity
Regional Banking Group
Retail & Middle Market Financial ServicesÕ businessesapproximately 
$8.0b
illion. The acquired
portfolio is comprised mainly of ProvidianÕs

higher quality or ÒplatinumÓ assets and
consists of approximately 3.3 million

credit card accounts. 
improvement and provide high-quality
service to the FirmÕs customers.
40JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Business-related metrics
As of or for the year ended December 31,Over/(under)(in billions,except ratios)
20012000Loan and lease receivables 
$28.426%Origination volume 19.963Market share 
4.1%150bp
Net charge-off ratio
0.549Cash overhead ratio  
37(1,700)bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
Auto Finance is the largest bank origina-tor of auto loans and leases in the U.S.,
with over 2 million accounts. In 2001, 
the business unit had a record number of

auto loan originations, which grew 63%

over 2000 to $19.9 billion. Loan and lease
receivables grew 26% to $28.4 billion,
and Auto FinanceÕs market share among

auto finance companies improved from

2.6% in 2000 to 4.1% in 2001 as a result

of strong organic growth and an origina-

tion strategy that allies the business with
car manufacturers and dealers nationwide.
Auto FinanceÕs operating revenues and
cash operating earnings grew 63% and
215%, respectively, from 2000. The cash
overhead ratio decreased to 37%. These

results reflected the 
increase in origination
volume, the impactof 
lower rates, and theeffect of a $100 million charge in 2000

from an estimated decrease in auto lease

residual value. The risk of future charges
for residual values was substantially miti-

gated in the first quarter of 2001 through

the purchase of a residual value insurance

policy to cover previously uninsured auto

leases in the portfolio. New auto lease
originations continue to be insured under

an existing policy. The moderately higher

charge-off rate in 2001 reflects consumer

defaults in a weaker business environment.
Business-related metrics
As of or for the year ended December 31,Over/(under)(in billions,except ratios)
20012000Originations$184.2142%Loans serviced429.819Total loans owned 55.719Number of customers (in millions)412Net charge-off ratio
0.18%3bp
Cash overhead ratio  
60Ñbp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
Chase Home Finance is the mortgageindustryÕs second largest mortgage origina-

tor and third largest mortgage servicer in

the United States with over 4 million cus-
tomers. CHF experienced a record year in

2001, with total revenue increasing 22%,

cash operating earnings increasing 20%

and mortgage originations increasing

142% to $184 billion. CHFÕs 2001 per-

formance demonstrated the effectiveness

of its balanced business model of being
both a leading originator and servicer of
mortgage loans. The significant reduction

in interest rates contributed to higher origi-

nation revenue as record loan originations

were packaged and sold as securities. Low

interest rates also improved net interest

margins by reducing funding costs.

However, the lower interest rates led to

high prepayment levels and reduced mort-
gage servicing revenue due to the acceler-
ated amortization and impairment of mort-
gage servicing rights (ÒMSRÓ). To mitigate

the effect of reduced revenue from MSR

impairment and prepayments, CHF used

both interest rate derivatives and available-

for-sale (ÒAFSÓ) securities that increased in

value when interest rates declined. 
Interest rate derivatives that qualify as fair
value hedges under SFAS 133 and the

related hedged MSRs were accounted for
at fair value. For 2001, the decrease in

revenue resulting from SFAS 133 valua-
tion adjustments and MSR impairment
totaled $1,951 million. These losses were

substantially offset by total gains of

$1,773 million relating to a combination

of derivative gains, including those that
qualify as SFAS 133 hedges, and realized

gains from sales of AFS securities.
Home FinanceBusiness-related metrics
As of or for the year ended December 31,Over/(under)(in billions,except ratios)
20012000Total loans$13.6(2)%Total deposits19.37Nonperforming loans as a% of total loans2.30%11bpCash overhead ratio  
54200bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
JPMorgan Middle Market Banking is apremier national provider of commercial

banking and corporate financial services

to companies with annual sales of $3
million to $500 million, as well as to
not-for-profit, real estate and public 

sector entities. Middle Markets enjoys a
leadership position in the lucrative New

York tri-state market and select Texas
markets, and is leveraging its expertise in

select markets across the country.

Product offerings include corporate
finance, cash management, credit and
international finance capabilities. Cash

operating earnings declined 7% when

compared with the prior year. Declining

interest rates affected earnings as well as

revenue. Revenue declined 3% despite a7% increase in deposit levels. A 24%

increase in deposit fees offset some of

the impact of lower rates. Cash expense
rose 1% due to the increase in 
volume-related expenses. 
Middle MarketsAuto FinanceThe increase in cash expense of 22% was

related to the growth of business volume
and the acquisition in 2001 of AdvantaÕs

mortgage business. The cash overhead
ratio remained flat compared with last

year at 60%. Charge-offs of 0.18% were

slightly higher in 2001 reflecting weak

domestic economic conditions.The results of 
Auto Finance also includeChase EducationFinance, which is a topprovider of government guaranteed 

and private loans for higher education
through its joint venture with Sallie Mae. 
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
41Support Units and Corporate
Selected financial dataYear ended December 31,(in millions)20012000Operating revenue$(976)
$(1,061)Cash operating expense226
117Credit costs251
(1)Cash operating earnings$(507)
$(334)Average common equity
$(1,736)$(5,840)Average assets
13,61515,632Shareholder value added
(110)593Note:2000 amounts are shown in place of % changes.
ETS is an internal technology service
organization, and CBS manages the
FirmÕs support services, including real

estate management, human resources,

finance operations and procurement. 

CBS and ETS seek to provide services to

the FirmÕs businesses that are competitive

with comparable third-party providers in

terms of price and service quality. These

units leverage the FirmÕs global scale and

technology to gain efficiencies through

consolidation, standardization, vendor

management and outsourcing.
Corporate reflects the accounting effects
remaining at the Corporate level after theapplication of management accounting
policies of the Firm. These policies include
the allocation of costs associated with
technology, operational and staff support
The Support Units and Corporate includeEnterprise Technology Services (ÒETSÓ),

Corporate Business Services (ÒCBSÓ),
legal, audit and finance. Critical accounting policies used by the FirmThe FirmÕs accounting policies are integral
to understanding the results reported.

Accounting policies are described in detail

in the Notes to the consolidated financial
statements. The FirmÕs most complex

accounting policies require managementÕs

judgment to ascertain the valuation of
assets and liabilities. The Firm has estab-

lished detailed policies and control proce-

dures that are intended to ensure valua-

tion methods are well controlled and

applied consistently from period to period.

In addition, the policies and procedures

are intended to ensure that the process

for changing methodologies occurs in an
appropriate manner. The following is a

brief description of the FirmÕs current

accounting policies involving significant
management valuation judgments. Allowance for loan lossesJPMorgan ChaseÕs allowance for loan loss-

es is intended to adjust the value of the
FirmÕs loan assets for probable credit losses.

Management also computes an allowance
for lending-related commitments using a

methodology similar to that used for the
loan portfolio. The methodology for calcu-
lating both allowances involves judgments
at many levels. First and foremost, it

involves the early identification of credits

that are deteriorating. Second, manage-

ment applies its judgment to derive loss
factors. Wherever possible, the Firm uses

independent, verifiable data or the FirmÕs

own historical loss experience in its modelsfor estimating loan losses. Many factorscan affect managementÕs estimates of 

specific loss and expected loss, including
volatility of default probabilities, rating

migrations and loss severity. For example,

judgment is required to determine how

many years of data to include when esti-
mating loss severity. If a full credit cycle is

not captured in the data, loss estimates

may be inaccurate. Similarly, there are

judgments as to which external data on

default probabilities should be used, and

when they should be used. Choosing data
that are not reflective of the FirmÕs specific

loan portfolio characteristics could affect
loss estimates. ManagementÕs judgmentsalso are applied when considering uncer-

tainties that relate to current macroeco-

nomic and political conditions, the impact
of currency devaluations on cross-border

exposures, changes in underwriting stan-

dards, unexpected correlations within the

portfolio or other factors. For a further 

discussion of the methodologies used in
establishing the FirmÕs Allowance for loan

losses, see Credit risk management and

Note 8 Ð Loans on pages 54 and 75,
respectively.
Fair value of financial instrumentsA portion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs assets and
liabilities are carried at fair value, including

trading assets and liabilities, available-for-

sale securities and loans held for sale. At

December 31, 2001, approximately $315

billion of the FirmÕs assets were recorded

at fair value.Fair value is defined as the value at whichpositions could be closed out or sold in a
transaction with a willing and knowledge-
able counterparty over a period of time
consistent with JPMorgan ChaseÕs trading

or investment strategy. A majority of assets

carried at fair value are determined based

on quoted market prices. If listed prices or
quotes are not available, then fair value is

based on internally developed cash flow

models. These models use as their basis
independently sourced market parameters

including, for example, interest rate yield

curves, option volatilities and currency

rates. The valuation process then takes into

consideration factors such as counterparty
credit quality, liquidity and concentration

concerns. Management applies judgment

in the determination of these factors. For
example, there is often limited market data

to rely on when estimating the impact of

holding a large or aged position. Similarly,

judgment must be applied in estimating
prices where no external parameters exist.

Finally, other factors can affect estimates of

fair value including market dislocations,
incorrect model assumptions, and unex-

pected correlations. Imprecision in estimat-

ing these factors can impact the amount of
revenue or loss recorded for a particular
position. The largest valuation adjustment
relates to credit risk associated with deriva-
tives in the FirmÕs derivatives portfolio. The

credit valuation adjustment, or CVA, repre-

sents the estimated credit component of

the FirmÕs derivative counterparty expo-

sures. The CVA is recalculated on a daily

basis, taking into account market andservices with the respective revenue gen-
erating businesses and allow manage-
ment to evaluate business performance
on an allocated basis.For 2001, Corporate had a cash operat-ing loss of $507 million, compared with 

a loss of $334 million in 2000. In 2001,
there were $251 million of credit costs in

excess of net charge-offs not allocated to

the segments. Also included in the 2001
net loss was a pre-tax loss of $152 mil-

lion at LabMorgan resulting from the

write-downs of investments and equity
accounting losses. LabMorgan has been
restructured and, going forward, its
remaining investment portfolio of $52million at December 31, 2001 will be
managed by JPMorgan Partners.42JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
The following section provides a discussion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs results of operations both on a reported and
operating basis. The differences between reported and operating basis are the treatment of revenues from

credit card securitizations, the exclusion of special items and the reclassification of trading-related net interest

income (ÒNIIÓ) to trading revenue. See page 27 for a further discussion.
RevenuesResults of operationsRevenues both on a reported and operating
basis were down from 2000 due to private

equity losses and, to a lesser degree, lower

investment banking fees and trading rev-

enue. These were partially offset by higher

net interest income and securities gains.
Investment banking feesInvestment banking fees declined due to
lower merger and acquisition advisory and
equity underwriting fees. The decline was
partially offset by a record year for invest-

ment-grade bond underwriting fees. For a
further discussion of these fees, see the
Investment BankÕs results on page 30 and

Note 4 on page 72.Trading-related revenue
The decline was primarily attributable tolower margins in equity securities and
reduced demand for equity derivatives.Also contributing to the decline was $359million of losses related to the exposure to
Enron and Argentina. Excluding these two,

the weaker performance in emerging mar-
kets was more than offset by the strong

results within the interest rate trading
products as a result of the declining inter-

est rate environment. 
Fees and commissionsFees and commissions both on a reported

and operating basis for 2001 were essen-

tially flat from last year, reflecting:
¥ Investment management, custody and
processing services fees in 2001 rose 4%

to $3.8 billion, primarily as a result of the

acquisition of Flemings in the second half
of 2000, partially offset by the general

decline in asset values;¥ Credit card revenue in 2001 rose $337
million, or 19%, on a reported basis ($347

million onan 
operating basis) due to theincreased number of cardholders, stronger
customer purchase volume and an

increase in delinquencies. These factors

resulted in higher interchange income,
late charges and other fees. For a further
discussion of this revenue, see page 72;
¥ Deposit service fees for 2001 were $1.0
billion, an increase of 13% as a result of

more customers opting to pay fees for

services, rather than maintaining a 
compensating balance in a low interest

rate environment. In addition, consumer

banking fees increased reflecting a high-

er level of customer utilization of retail

banking products and services;
¥ Other fees rose 19% to $794 million in
2001 due to the acquisition of Colson in
early 2001, and strong sales of insurance,

particularly annuities and mortgage 
reinsurance; 20012000Year ended December 31,Reported Credit SpecialOperating Reported Credit SpecialOperating
(in millions)basis
(a)card(b)items(c)basisbasis
(a)card(b)items(c)basisInvestment banking fees$3,612$Ñ$Ñ$3,612
$4,362$Ñ$Ñ$4,362
Trading revenue (including trading NII)
6,279ÑÑ6,279
7,142ÑÑ7,142
Fees and commissions9,208(340)Ñ8,868
9,229(350)Ñ8,879
Private equity Ð realized gains
651ÑÑ651
2,051ÑÑ2,051
Private equity Ð unrealized 
gains (losses)(1,884)ÑÑ(1,884)
(1,036)ÑÑ(1,036)
Securities gains866ÑÑ866
229ÑÑ229
Other revenue 877(17)Ñ860
2,289(10)(1,131)1,148
Net interest income (excluding trading NII)
9,4411,405Ñ10,846
8,6681,350Ñ10,018
Total revenue$29,050$1,048$Ñ$30,098
$32,934$990$(1,131)$32,793
(a) Trading-related NII is recorded in net interest income on the Consolidated statement of income.For purposes of this schedul
e,trading NII has been reclassified to trading revenue in the reported
basis column.See Note 3 on page 72 for details of trading revenue and the related NII.
(b) This column presents the impact of credit card securitizations.

(c) For a description of special items,see Glossary of terms on page 101.
counterparty-related activity, such as
changes in credit ratings and market prices,

master netting agreements and collateral.

CVA also includes additional adjustments

for name-specific credit risk not reflected in

credit spreads.
Notwithstanding the judgment required in
fair valuing JPMorgan ChaseÕs assets and
liabilities, the Firm believes its estimates offair value are reasonable given the FirmÕs

process for obtaining external prices and

parameters, internal model review and

approval, consistent application of

approach from period to period and the

validation of estimates through the actual

settlement of contracts. Specific details on fair values by type ofinstrument, including the valuation policy
for private equity investments and mort-
gage servicing rights, are included in Note

27 Ð Fair value of financial instruments and
Note 10 Ð Mortgage servicing rights,
respectively.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
43Reported other revenue reflected the 
following special items, all in 2000:¥ Gains of $827 million on the sale of the
Hong Kong retail banking business; $399

million on the transfer of the FirmÕs inter-

est in Euroclear; and $81 million on the

sale of the Panama operations; partly offset by:

¥ Losses of $176 million on the economic
hedge of FlemingsÕ purchase price.
For a table that breaks out other revenue,
see Note 4 on page 73.Net interest income
Net interest income benefited from the

lower interest rate environment in 2001,

resulting in a higher volume of averageinterest-earning assets (in particular, credit

card receivables and residential mortgages),

and slightly wider spreads on assets (the

short-term funding costs to support inter-
est-earning assets declined faster than the

interest earned on them). Also contributing

to the increase in NII was an aggregate of

$84 million of interest refunds in 2001

(related to several tax settlements) for prior

yearsÕ federal tax overpayments.The spread on interest-earning assets was
1.99% in 2001, compared with 1.87% in

the prior year. Excluding the impact of the

interest refunds, the spread would have

been 1.97% in 2001.securities used as economic hedges of thevalue of mortgage servicing rights at Home
Finance. For a further discussion of securi-
ties gains, see both the Investment Bank
and Home Finance discussions on pages 30
and 40, respectively.
Other revenue
The decrease in other revenue of $288 mil-

lion included:¥ Mark-to-market gains of $229 million in
2000 on economic hedges for anticipat-
ed overseas revenues, compared with no

such gains in 2001;¥ Unfavorable valuation adjustments in
2001 of $177 million related to residual

loan positions held after the syndication
period; ¥ Lower equity income of $71 million ($36
million in 2001 compared with $107 mil-

lion in 2000) on the American Century
investment due to the decline in the
value of its funds under management,
and a nonoperating charge related to its

restructuring activities;partly offset by:

¥ Revenues from r
esidential mortgage salesand origination activities in 2001 increased

to $552 million from $194 million in 2000,

driven by the reduction in interest rates.

For a further discussion of this revenue, 

see page 40.On a reported basis, total noninterest
expense increased slightly from 2000,

reflecting higher merger and restructuring
partly offset by:
¥ Mortgage servicing fees in 2001 were a
loss of $230 million, a decline of $671
million from last year, primarily as a result

of the accelerated amortization and net
impairment of servicing rights stemming
from the lower interest rate environ-

ment. For a further discussion of these
fees, see page 40;¥ Other lending-related service fees in
2001 were $495 million, a decrease of

$95 million from 2000 due to lower vol-

ume in the trade finance business, reduc-

ing the commissions on letters of credit. 
For a table that breaks out fees and com-
missions, see Note 4 on page 73.Private equity gains (losses)Both realized gains and unrealized losses

on private equity investments deteriorated
from last yearÕs levels due to the limited

opportunities to sell investments and
depressed valuations, particularly in the

TMT sector. For a further discussion of pri-

vate equity gains (losses), see JPMorgan
PartnersÕ results on page 36.
Securities gainsThe FirmÕs available-for-sale securities port-

folio was positioned for interest rate reduc-

tions in the U.S. and Europe, and thus, the

Firm was able to realize large gains on the

sales of those securities in 2001. There

were also higher gains on the sales of debt
Expenses20012000Year ended December 31,Reported SpecialOperating Reported SpecialOperating
(in millions)basisitemsbasisbasisitems
basis(a)Compensation expense$11,944$Ñ$11,944
$12,748$Ñ$12,748
Occupancy expense1,348Ñ1,348
1,294Ñ1,294
Technology and communications2,631Ñ2,631
2,454Ñ2,454
Merger and restructuring costs2,523(2,523)Ñ
1,431(1,431)Ñ
Amortization of intangibles729Ñ729
528Ñ528
Other expense4,124Ñ4,124
4,369Ñ4,369
Total noninterest expense $23,299$(2,523)$20,776
$22,824$(1,431)$21,393
Less:Amortization of intangibles
729528Cash operating noninterest expense
$20,047$20,865(a)On a 2000 pro forma basis (assuming the purchase of Flemings occurred at the beginning of 2000),cash operating noninterest
expense was $21.9 billion.
costs. On an 
operating basis, expensesdeclined from 
the prior year due to savings from merger and right-sizing 
initiatives and lower incentives. On a pro
forma basis, operating expenses in 2001decreased 8%.
50%60%70%0100999897Cash operating overhead ratio 55%59%59%64%67%44JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
(consisting primarily of systems integrationcosts, facilities costs and retention payments)

and severance costs for the right-sizing of
employee levels in certain businesses (2,000
employee reductions) beyond that planned at

the time of the merger would be incurred in

the remainder of 2001 and 2002. At that

time, management also increased its esti-

mate of related expense savings from the

$2.0 billion originally estimated at the time of
the merger to $3.6 billion. During 2001, the
Firm incurred total merger and right-sizing

costs of $2.3 billion. At December 31, 2001,
cumulative merger-related and right-sizing

employee reductions, including attrition,

since the merger announcement date, have
been approximately 8,200.
In December 2001, management again
revised its estimate of total merger andright-sizing costs to be incurred in 2002 to

be approximately $1 billion, repr
esentingan increase of approximately $250 million

from the total costs previously estimated.

At the same time, management increased

its estimate of expense savings to be real-

ized from $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion.
For the past few years, the Firm has beenrelocating several businesses to Florida, Texas
and Massachusetts. Management continues
to estimate that $200 million of relocation

costs will be incurred in 2002, resulting in

cumulative relocation costs of $585 million

and related expense savings of $80 million in

2003 increasing to $140 million in 2007.
Credit costs 
Credit costs on an operating basis are com-

posed of the provision for loan losses relat-

ed to loans on the Consolidated balance
sheet and the provision for credit card

receivables that have been securitized. Year ended December 31,(in millions)20012000Provision for loan losses$3,185$1,377Credit costs associated with credit card securitizations1,048990Operating credit costs 
$4,233$2,367Credit costs increased 79% in 2001 due to
the impact of the economic slowdown on
both the commercial and consumer credit

portfolios. In 2001, the Firm increased the

loan loss allowance by $850 million. For a
further discussion of these costs, see page 54.Compensation expenseCompensation expense declined 6% in2001, primarily as a result of headcount

reductions, particularly in areas affected by
the merger such as the Investment Bank and

Investment Management & Private Banking.
Also contributing to the decline were lower

incentives as a result of a lower level of

earnings. These items were partially offset by

higher compensation expense, reflecting the

full-year impact of Flemings in 2001, the
addition of the mortgage business of
Advanta, and new hiring at Home Finance
and Cardmember Services related to the

growth in their business volume.
The total number of full-time equivalentemployees at December 31, 2001 was
95,812, a decrease of 3,945 employees

from the prior year-end, reflecting head-

count reductions at businesses that were

impacted by the merger, particularly IB and

IMPB, partly offset by an increase in RMMFS.
Occupancy, technology and 
communications The increase of $54 million in occupancy
expense was primarily attributable to the

Flemings acquisition, additional space
requirements of several business segments,
and the moderate increase in utility, mainte-

nance and building administration costs.
These were partially offset by the savings

derived from the consolidation of offices and

the relocations of certain functions from the

New York metropolitan area to the South

and Southwest regions of the United States.
Technology and communications expensereflected the increase in depreciation
expense associated with upgrades to the
FirmÕs hardware systems and software appli-

cations. Also contributing to the increase

were the costs of more sophisticated

telecommunications systems, including

greater requirements for market data used

in trading activities and research at the

Investment Bank, as well as the leasing and
maintenance of more advanced computer

and other equipment.
Other expenseOther operating expense decreased $245

million from 2000 due to the following (for

the table on other expense, see page 74):¥ Lower all other expense of $171 million
due to decreases in operating losses and

employee-related recruitment and reloca-

tion expenses;¥ Lower professional services of $64 million,
reflecting fewer requirements for legal
services stemming from the slowdown in

the Investment BankÕs business volume,

and less need for information technology
consultants due to a reduction in non-

merger-related projects;
¥ Lower travel and entertainment of $37
million, driven by the slowdown in busi-
ness activities, which reduced air travel

and hotel expenses, and implementation
of cost-containment measures;
partly offset by:
¥ Higher outside services of $21 million,reflecting an increase in outsourced data
processing and mortgage closing costs

associated with the significant increase in

securities and cash transactions at Treasury

& Securities Services and origination vol-
ume at Home Finance, respectively.
Expenses related to the attacks on the
World Trade Center were immaterial. The
branch located at the World Trade Center

was destroyed and the Firm experienced

some temporary dislocations in its down-
town Manhattan offices, but there were no

significant operational losses.Amortization of intangiblesThe increase was largely attributable to the

full-year impact of goodwill associated with
the acquisitions of Flemings and The Beacon
Group, LLC in mid-2000. For a discussion

on the impact of SFAS 142 on the FirmÕs

amortization of intangibles expense in
2002, see page 62.Merger and restructuring costs
Management initially estimated that the Firm

would incur one-time costs of $3.2 billion in
connection with the merger of J.P. Morgan

and Chase. These costs consisted of a $1.25
billion merger charge that was recorded on

the December 31, 2000 merger date and

$1.95 billion of other costs to be incurred in

2001 and 2002 that were not accruable

under existing accounting pronouncements. 
In September 2001, management estimatedthat $1.05 billion of additional merger costsJPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
45The Capital Committeefocuses onfirm-wide capital planning, internal capi-

tal allocation and liquidity risk. The RiskManagement Committeefocuses oncredit risk, market risk, operational and

business risks, private equity risk and
fiduciary risk. Both risk committees have
decision-making authority, with major

policy decisions and risk exposures sub-

ject to review by the Executive

Committee.In addition to the Risk Policy Committee,the Audit Committee of the Board of

Directors reviews with management the

system of internal controls and financial

reporting that is relied upon to assure
compliance with the FirmÕs operational

risk management processes. 
The FirmÕs use of SVA, which incorpo-
rates a risk-adjusted capital methodology
as its primary performance measure, has

strengthened its risk management disci-

pline by charging the businesses the cost
of capital linked to the risks associated
with their respective activities. The result

of this discipline has been controlled

growth in, and a lower risk profile for,

the assets on the FirmÕs balance sheet.
Risk management and oversight beginswith the Risk Policy Committee of the
Board of Directors, which reviews the

governance of these activities, delegat-

ing the formulation of policy and day-to-
day risk oversight and management to
the Executive Committee and to the two 
corporate risk committees:¥ Capital
¥ Risk Management 
The Executive Committee provides guid-
ance regarding strategies and risk

appetite and is responsible for an inte-

grated view of risk exposures, including

the interdependencies among JPMorgan

ChaseÕs various risk categories. 
Risk management at JPMorgan Chase isguided by several principles, including:¥ Defined risk governance

¥ Independent oversight
¥ Continual evaluation of risk appetite,managed through risk limits
¥ Portfolio diversification
¥ Disciplined risk assessment and meas-urement, including Value-at-risk analy-

sis and portfolio stress testing
¥ Performance measurement (SVA) that
allocates risk-adjusted capital to busi-
ness units and charges a cost against
that capital Risk Policy Committee
of Board of Directors
Executive CommitteeCapital CommitteeRisk Management Committee¥Provides oversight and direction of risk profile and risk
appetite¥Reviews and approves corporate policies and risk strategies
intended toensur
e that risk management and monitoringaccurately reflect the business mandate,accepted practice,

and legal and regulatory requirements
¥Approves aggregate limits and authorities to control risk
¥Monitors significant risk exposures,concentrations of positions,
asset quality,and significant position and risk limit changes,

paying particular attention to stress scenarios
¥Reviews allowance adequacy and approves charge-offs
¥Provides a forum for discussion of risk issues
¥Recommends targeted capital ratios and monitors adherence to
those ratios
¥Recommends the allocation of capital within the Firm¥Monitors Firm-wide and parent company liquidity and approves

collateraland 
liquidity planning policies¥Reviews the adequacy of the FirmÕs capital and debt levels
¥Provides a forum for discussion of capital adequacy and
liquidity issues¥Reviews exposure to special purpose entities,with particular

focus on any potential liquidity risk¥Oversees risk management
¥Strategicguidance¥Integrated view
Risk managementThe major risks to which theFirm is exposed are:
¥Credit risk
¥Market risk¥Operational and business risks¥Liquidity risk¥Private equity riskIncome taxesJPMorgan Chase recognized income tax

expense on a reported basis of $847 mil-

lion in 2001, compared with $3.01 billion

in 2000. The effective tax rate was 33.0%
in 2001 compared with 34.4% in 2000.
The decrease in the effective tax rate in

2001 as compared with 2000 was principally

a result of the decrease in reported income
before income tax expense. JPMorgan
ChaseÕs effective tax rate in 2002 will like-

wise be affected by the overall level of

reported pre-tax earnings.
46JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Capital also is assessed against businessunits for certain nonrisk factors. Businesses
are assessed capital equal to 100% of any

goodwill or certain other intangibles gen-
erated through acquisitions. Additionally,

JPMorgan Chase assesses an Òasset capital

taxÓ against managed assets and some
off-balance sheet instruments. These

assessments recognize that certain mini-

mum regulatory capital ratios must be

maintained by the Firm. JPMorgan Chase
also estimates the portfolio effect on

required economic capital based on corre-
lation of risk in stress scenarios across risk

categories. This estimated diversification
benefit leads to a reduction in required

economic capital for the Firm.The total required economic capital for
JPMorgan Chase as determined by its mod-
els and after considering the FirmÕs estimated

diversification benefits is then compared

with available common stockholdersÕ equity

to evaluate overall capital utilization. The
FirmÕs policy is to maintain an appropriate

level of excess capital to provide for growth

and additional protection against losses.
Regulatory capital:JPMorgan ChaseÕs pri-
mary federal banking regulator, the Federal

Reserve Board, establishes capital require-

ments, including well-capitalized standards

and leverage ratios, for the consolidated

financial holding company and its state-

chartered banks, including JPMorgan Chase

Bank. The Office of the Comptroller of the

Currency establishes similar capital require-

ments and standards for the FirmÕs national

bank subsidiaries, including Chase
Manhattan Bank USA, National Association.
As of December 31, 2001, the financial

holding company and its banking sub-
sidiaries maintained capital levels well in
excess of the minimum capital requirements

and in excess of well-capitalized standards.
Additional information regarding the FirmÕs
capital ratios as well as a more detailed dis-

cussion of federal regulatory capital stan-

dards are presented in Note 21 on pages

88-89 of this Annual Report.
Currently, the FirmÕs most important regula-
tory capital target is to maintain a Tier 1

capital ratio in the range of 8% to 8.25%.

The Capital Committee reviews the FirmÕs
capital targets and policies regularly in light
of changing economic conditions and busi-
ness needs. Capital generated in excess of
the Tier 1 capital target and the FirmÕs

assessment of necessary excess capital
could be used for purchases of JPMorgan

Chase common stock or for 
future invest-
ment opportunities.The 
components ofthe FirmÕs Tier 1 and total capital are

reflected in Note 21 on pages 88-89 of
this Annual Report.Stock repurchases:
In July 2001,JPMorgan ChaseÕs Board of Directors

authorized the repurchase of up to $6 bil-

lion of the FirmÕs common stock, net of

any issuance for employee benefit plans.
In the latter half of 2001, the Firm repur-

chased approximately 21.9 million shares

worth $871 million. These repurchases

were offset by the net issuance of 5.7 mil-

lion shares during the same period under

JPMorgan ChaseÕs various stock-based

employee benefit plans. Management
anticipates significant repurchases only

when the operating income of the Firm
improves and generation of internal excess

capital accelerates.Dividends:In the first quarter of 2001,
JPMorgan Chase raised the quarterly cash
dividend on its common stock to $0.34
per share from $0.32 per share. In recent

years, JPMorgan Chase has had a policy of
paying common stock dividends at a level
that over time would be in the range of
25%-35% of an amount equal to operat-
ing earnings less preferred stock dividends.

The Firm continues to consider this range
an appropriate target over the medium-

and long-term. However, dividends above

this range may be declared for a period if

the FirmÕs results for the relevant period

are below what the Firm considers its

medium- or long-term operating earnings

capacity, as has been the case for the past

several quarters. Dividends declared in any

quarter will be determined by JPMorgan
ChaseÕs Board of Directors after taking

into consideration factors such as the
FirmÕs current earnings, expected medium-

and long-term operating earnings, finan-

cial condition, regulatory capital position

and applicable governmental regulations

and policies.Available versus required capital
December 31,(in billions)
20012000Common stockholdersÕ equity$
40.1$40.8Required economic capital:Credit risk13.612.4Market risk
3.93.6Operating risk
6.89.5Private equity risk
5.36.7Goodwill8.89.5Asset capital tax3.74.0Diversification effect(9.0)(10.4)Total required 
economic risk capital$
33.1$35.3Capitalinexcess of required
economic capital$7.0
$5.5Capital managementJPMorgan ChaseÕs capital man-
agement framework helps to
optimize the use of capital by:¥Determining the amount ofcapital commensurate with:- Internal assessments of risk 
as estimated by the FirmÕs

economic capital allocation
model- The FirmÕs goal to limit losses,
even under stress conditions
- Targeted regulatory ratios 
and credit ratings
- The FirmÕs liquidity risk
management strategy¥Directing capital investment 
to activities with the most
favorable risk-adjusted returns
¥Defining the most efficient
composition of the FirmÕs capital

baseEconomic risk capital:JPMorgan Chaseassesses capital adequacy by measuring risk
utilizing internal risk assessment method-

ologies. The Firm assigns economic capital
based primarily on four risk factors. The
methodology quantifies credit, market and

operating risk for each business and, for
JPMP, private equity risk, and assigns capi-

tal accordingly. These methodologies are

discussed in the risk management sections
of this Annual Report.JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
47Credit risk management
mercial portfolio, capital allocations are dif-
ferentiated by risk rating and maturity. Off-

balance sheet exposures are converted to

loan equivalent amounts, based on their
probability of being drawn, before applying

the expected loss and capital factors. The
credit risk profile of each business unit is an

important factor in assessing its financial
performance.Expected credit losses alone are not key
indicators of risk. For commercial assets, 

if losses were entirely predictable, then the

expected loss rate could be factored into

pricing and covered as a normal and recur-

ring cost of doing business. Unexpected
losses (i.e., the uncertainty of loss rates rel-

ative to expected levels) are what create

risk and represent the primary focus of

credit risk management.
The risks of the consumer and commercial
portfolios are markedly different. Broadly

speaking, losses on consumer exposures

are more predictable, less volatile and less

cyclical than losses on commercial expo-

sures. For the latter, the loss volatility can

be much greater over the course of an

economic cycle. JPMorgan ChaseÕs managed credit-related
assets totaled $310 billion at December 31,
2001, essentially flat from year-end 2000.

The portfolio continues to be well-balanced
between commercial and consumer assets.

At December 31, 2001, consumer assets
represented 43% of the total managed
credit-related portfolio, compared with

37% at December 31, 2000. Risk managementCredit risk management begins with an

assessment of the risk of loss resulting

from the default by a borrower or counter-

party. All credit exposures are assessed,

whether on- or off-balance sheet. These

exposures include loans, receivables under

derivative and foreign exchange contracts,

and lending-related commitments (e.g.,

letters of credit and undrawn commit-

ments to extend credit).
Using statistical techniques, estimates are
made of both expected losses (average
losses over a cycle) and unexpected losses
for each segment of the portfolio.
Unexpected losses represent the potential

volatility of actual losses relative to the

expected level of loss. Expected losses are

used to set risk-adjusted loss provisions,

whereas unexpected losses drive the allo-

cation of credit risk capital by portfolio

segment. Within the consumer businesses,

capital allocations are differentiated by

product and product segment. In the com-
2001 highlightsDespite a difficult economic environment in 2001, the overall quality of both the
commercial and consumer credit portfolios remained sound 
¥The commercial loan portfolio declined 12% in 2001, reflecting, in part, the
FirmÕs strategy of managing risk through the origination of loans for

distribution and its desire to reduce commercial credit
¥Commercial credit-related assets considered investment-grade equivalent
declined to 65% at December 31, 2001 from 67% at year-end 2000 
Credit risk management processes
The credit risk management process is
guided by policies and procedures estab-

lished by the Credit Risk Policy group. At

both the business unit and corporate level,
processes are in place that are designed to

ensure that risks are accurately assessed,

properly approved and continuously moni-

tored. 
Credit Risk Policy also has primary responsi-
bility for the credit risk measurement

framework, allocating the cost of credit,

evaluating the portfolio risk profile and

assessing concentration risks, setting limits
to provide for adequate portfolio diversifi-

cation, validating internal risk grades and

managing problem assets. 
Within each major business unit, there is
an independent credit risk management

function that reports jointly to the 

relevant business executive and to the Vice
Chairman for Finance, Risk Managementand Administration.These functions are
responsible for managing credit decisions
on a day-to-day basis. They approve signif-

icant new transactions and product offer-

ings, have the final authority over credit

risk assessments and monitor the credit

risk profile of the business unitÕs portfolio.
Credit risk management of 
commercial assets
Within the commercial sector, credit risk
management begins with the client selec-
tion process. A global industry approach

allows the Firm to monitor and evaluate a
given industryÕs risk profile; exposures thus

can be managed in industries deemed to
have increasing risk profiles. The FirmÕs

international strategy, particularly in emerg-

ing markets, is to focus on the largest,
leading firms with cross-border financing

needs. Credit risk is the risk of loss
due to borrower or counter-

party default. This risk is man-
aged at both the transaction
and portfolio levels. Credit

risk management processes

are designed to preserve the

independence and integrity of
the risk assessment process. 
48JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Credit-related portfolio
The following table presents a summary of managed credit-related information for the dates indicated: 
As of or for the year endedCredit-relatedNonperforming Past due 90 days and Average annual
December 31,assetsassets
(d)Net charge-offsover and accruingnet charge-off rate
(in millions,except ratios)
2001200020012000200120002001200020012000Commercial loans$104,864$119,460$1,997$1,434$982$400$35
$99
0.87%0.33%Derivative and FX contracts
71,15776,37317037NANAÑÑNANATotal commercial credit-related176,021195,8332,1671,47198240035990.870.33Consumer loans(a)134,004114,4614993842,4011,9779437881.921.82Charge to conform to FFIEC policy(b)Ñ93Total $310,025$310,294$2,666$1,855$3,383$2,470$978$8871.42%1.08%Assets acquired as loan satisfactions12468Total  $2,790$1,923Other receivables
(c)1,130ÑTotal nonperforming assets $3,920$1,923(a)Includes securitized credit cards.For a further discussion of credit card securitizations,see page 27.
(b)In 2000,the Firm incurred a $93 million charge to conform its policies to the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Cou
ncilÕs (ÒFFIECÓ) revised policy establishing uniform guidelines for
charge-offs of consumer loans to delinquent,bankrupt,deceased and fraudulent borrowers.Of this total amount,$12 million related
 to credit cards on the balance sheet,$13 million related
to securitized credit cards,$35 million related to residential mortgages,$30 million related to auto financings and $3 million 
related to other loans.
(c)This amount relates to the Enron-related surety receivables and letter of credit,which are the subject of litigation with cr
edit-worthy entities.
(d)Nonperforming assets have not been reduced for credit protection (single name credit default swaps and collateralized loan o
bligations) relating to nonperforming counterparties in amountsaggregating $42 million and $36 million at December 31,2001 and 2000,respectively.
NA- Not applicable.Derivative and FX contracts are marked-to-market,and valuation adjustments are included in trading revenues.
Concentration management continues tobe a key tool in managing commercial

credit risk. The Firm manages concentra-

tions by obligor, risk grade, industry, prod-

uct and geographic location. From the per-

spective of portfolio risk management in
the aggregate, concentration management

is enhanced by the FirmÕs established strat-

egy of loan origination for distribution as
well as the purchase of credit protection.
Credit risk management of 
consumer assetsConsumer credit risk management uses
sophisticated portfolio modeling, credit

scoring and decision support tools to 
project credit risks and establish underwrit-

ing standards. Risk parameters are 

established in the early stages of product

development, and the cost of credit risk 

is an integral part of the pricing and 
evaluation of a productÕs profit dynamics.
Consumer portfolios are monitored to
identify deviations from expected perform-

ance and shifts in consumersÕ patterns 

of behavior. 
2002 viewThe Firm continues to view credit as 

a lagging economic indicator. The eco-

nomic and associated credit environ-

ments are expected to remain challeng-

ing in 2002.In the consumer sector, the Firm currently
anticipates higher loan losses and charge-
off rates in 2002, reflecting both ongoing

portfolio growth and a continuation of the

difficult economic environment.
$0$50$100$15020012000Managed credit-related assets
At December 31 $114.5$104.9$134.0(in billions)$76.4$119.5 Commercial loans Derivative and FX contracts
 Consumer loans$71.2JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
49Commercial portfolio
The following table presents commercial credit-related information for the dates indicated: 
As of or for the year endedCredit-relatedNonperforming Past due 90 days and Average annual
December 31,assetsassets
(b)Net charge-offsover and accruingnet charge-off rate
(in millions,except ratios)
2001200020012000200120002001200020012000Commercial loans
Domestic commercial:Commercial and industrial$56,680$64,031$1,186$727$796$269$11
$95
1.13%0.43%Commercial real estate4,1484,8345665(2)(5)193NMNMFinancial institutions5,6087,34233292326ÑÑ0.320.32Total domestic commercial loans66,43676,2071,27582181729030981.020.38Foreign commercial:Commercial and industrial33,53037,002679556162118510.520.29Commercial real estate1671,47099ÑÑÑÑÑÑFinancial institutions 3,5703,9762313(6)(8)ÑÑNMNMForeign governments1,16180511359ÑÑÑ1.21ÑTotal foreign commercial loans38,42843,253722613165110510.500.25Total commercial loans104,864119,4601,9971,43498240035990.870.33Derivative and FX contracts
Commercial and industrial(a)34,43230,87416511NANAÑÑNANAFinancial institutions36,72545,499526NANAÑÑNANATotal derivative and FX contracts
71,15776,37317037NANAÑÑNANATotal commercial credit-related$176,021$195,833$2,167$1,471$982$400$35
$99
0.87%0.33%Other receivables
(c)1,130ÑTotal commercial nonperforming assets $3,297$1,471(a)Includes foreign governments.
(b)Nonperforming assets have not been reduced for credit protection (single name credit default swaps and collateralized loan o
bligations) relating to nonperforming counterparties in amountsaggregating $42 million and $36 million at December 31,2001 and 2000,respectively.
(c)This amount relates to the Enron-related surety receivables and letter of credit,which are the subject of litigation with cr
edit-worthy entities.
NA-Not applicable.Derivative and FX contracts are marked-to-market,and valuation adjustments are included in trading revenues.

NM-Not meaningful.
20%40%60%80% 1999 2000 2001Commercial credit-related assets 
Risk profile
At December 31 67.0%32.2%65.4%Note: The balances include derivative and FX contracts.
 33.4%Investment-gradeNoninvestment-Nonperforming
equivalentgrade equivalent
68.1%31.2%0%0.8%1.2% 0.7%reported off-balance sheet commitments.
The notional amounts outstanding relating 

to single name credit default swaps and

CLOs were approximately $19.0 billion and

approximately $18.7 billion, respectively, 

at December 31, 2001.Commercial credit quality
At December 31, 2001, 65% of the FirmÕs

commercial credit-related assets were con-

sidered investment-grade equivalent, while

approximately 35% were considered non-

investment-grade equivalent, of which 1%
was nonperforming. Total commercial nonperforming assets
were $3.297 billion at December 31, 2001.

Excluding the $1.130 billion of nonper-
forming Enron-related other receivables,

commercial nonperforming assets were

$2.167 billion, an increase of $696 million

from year-end 2000, which equaled

approximately 1% of the total commercial

credit-related assets.
Loan origination for distribution The FirmÕs business strategy remains one of

origination for distribution. The majority ofthe FirmÕs wholesale loan originations continue

to be distributed into the marketplace. The
commercial loan portfolio declined 12% in

2001 reflecting, in part, the results of the

FirmÕs strategy to originate for distribution as

well as the FirmÕs ongoing goal of reducing

its exposure to commercial credit. In addition,

the FirmÕs SVA discipline continues to discour-

age the retention of loan assets that do not

generate a positive return above the cost of

risk-adjusted capital. SVA remains a critical

discipline in selecting loan assets to add to
the FirmÕs balance sheet, particularly when

combined with other credit and capital man-

agement disciplines (e.g., credit derivatives).
Purchase of credit protection
The Firm uses credit derivatives, as well as

cash and synthetic collateralized loan obliga-
tions (ÒCLOsÓ), to reduce the credit risk of,

and the internal economic capital allocated

to loans, loan commitments, and derivatives.
The use of credit derivatives to hedge expo-

sures does not reduce the reported level of

assets on the balance sheet or the level of50JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
$8$16$24$32$40$8$16$24$32$40Commercial credit-related assets
Industry diversification profile Ð 10 largest industries
(a)Commercial
Holding &SecuritiesInvestment    TelecommunicationsCentralRealInvestment &Oil & GasBusiness
Banking   
Investment   Brokers, Dealers,Management /     ServicesGovernmentEstatePension FundsExploration/Services
CompaniesExchanges Private Banking
Production
0001
0001
0001
0001
0001
0001
0001
0001
0001
0001
This graph shows the Firm's diversification across industries and its high-quality commercial lending exposure. The balances in
clude derivative and FX instruments.  
These industry risk profiles take into consideration the benefit of collateral.
At December 31  (in billions)       Below investment grade       Investment grade equivalent
2000    2001  $0 $0(a) Amounts exclude Enron-related other receivables.
Net charge-offs
In 2001, commercial net charge-offs
increased by $582 million, or 146%, com-

pared with 2000. The increase was primarily

the result of higher domestic commercial

net charge-offs, including increased net

charge-offs in the telecommunications sec-

tor and for Enron. The annual commercial

loan net charge-off ratefor 2001 had been

expected to be in the range of 60 basis
points (0.60%) of the total commercial loan

portfolio. In 2001, the actual net charge-off

rate on average commercial loans was

0.87%. In 2000, the net charge-off rate

was 0.33%. DiversificationThe Firm remains highly focused on diversi-

fying its commercial credit-related assets.

The graph below displays the FirmÕs 10

largest credit-related industry groups. 
¥ Commercial Banking, traditionally the
largest industry group, continues to reflect

the FirmÕs market-leading position in

derivatives and in providing credit to this

industry. 
The portfolio continues to behigh-quality, predominantly investment

grade equivalent. ¥ The second largest industry group is
Holding and Investment Companies. The
underlying exposures in this group are

not highly correlated and remain high

quality. 
¥ The third largest industry group repre-
sents extensions of credit to securities

brokers, dealers and exchanges. Like

commercial banking, the risk profile of

this portfolio is predominantly investment

grade equivalent. As a leading primarydealer, the Firm has significant credit rela-

tionships with other primary dealers in
this industry.
¥ The remaining industry groups contribute
to the further diversification of total
commercial outstandings. These industry

groups, including Telecommunications

Services, are continuously monitored

with respect to risk profile, industry

composition and portfolio size. For
example, telecommunications credit-

related assets were reduced from $10.1
billion at mid-year 2001 to $8.4 billion
at December 31, 2001. The Firm has
placed limits on its exposure to the high-

er risk segments of this portfolio; emerg-
ing telecom credit-related assets totaled

$1.5 billion at December 31, 2001.Commercial credit exposure
At December 31,2001
%%InvestmentMaturing
(in billions)Outstandingsgrade< 1 yr
Loans$10554%44%
Derivatives718321
Credit-related assets1766535
Commitments2488563
Total$42477%51%
Unfunded commercial lending 
commitmentsThe FirmÕs unfunded commercial lending-
related commitments at December 31,2001 totaled $248 billion, down from

$263 billion at the year-end 2000; 85% 

of these unfunded commitments were

considered investment grade 
equivalentand 15% were considered non-investment

grade equivalent, which were 
essentiallyunchanged from the prior year. For a

breakdown of the unfunded commitments

outstanding at December 31, 2001, by
remaining maturity, see page 60.
The risk profile of the FirmÕs total commer-
cial credit exposure at December 31, 2001

(loans, derivatives and unfunded commit-
ments) was considered 77% investment

grade equivalent and 23% non-investment
grade equivalent. Commercial real estate: 
The commercial
real estate portfolio represents loans
secured primarily by real property (other

than loans secured by mortgages on 1-4

family residential properties, which are

included in the consumer loan portfolio).
Domestic commercial real estate loans

decreased $686 million from year-end

2000, principally as a result of sales and

repayments.Financial institutions:The financial insti-
tutions portfolio includes loans to com-
mercial banks and companies whose busi-

nesses primarily involve lending, financing,
investing, underwriting or insurance.
Loans to financial institutions decreased

$2.1 billion in 2001 from 2000 levels, pri-

marily in the domestic portion of the port-
folio. Nonperforming financial institution
loans increased by $14 million in 2001,

primarily in the foreign portfolio. The total

portfolio experienced net charge-offs of

$17 million in 2001, compared with $18

million in 2000.Enron-related exposure
The FirmÕs exposure to Enron at the time

it declared bankruptcy was approximately
Commercial loans
Commercial and industrial:
The com-mercial and industrial (ÒC&IÓ) portfolio

consists primarily of loans made to large
corporate and middle market customers.
The domestic C&I portfolio declined

$7.4 billion from 2000 year-end.

Nonperforming domestic C&I loans
increased over 2000, while net charge-

offs in 2001 were $796 million, or

1.13% of the average portfolio, higher
in both absolute dollar and percentage

terms relative to 2000.
The foreign C&I portfolio totaled $33.5
billion at December 31, 2001, representing

a $3.5 billion decline in outstandings from

2000 year-end levels. Nonperforming for-

eign C&I loans increased by $123 million,

or 22%, due primarily to an increase in

nonperforming loans in Latin America
(largely Argentina), offset in part by

declines in Asia. Net charge-off levels for

2001 increased from the prior year by

$44 million, or 37%, reflecting higher

charge-offs in Europe and Latin America

in 2001, partly offset by lower charge-

offs in Asia.
Derivative and foreign exchange contracts
In the normal course of business, the Firmutilizes derivative and foreign exchange

financial instruments to meet the financial
needs of its customers, to generate rev-

enues through its trading activities, to

manage its exposure to fluctuations in

interest and currency rates, and to manage

the FirmÕs own credit risk.
The Firm uses the same credit risk man-
agement procedures when entering into

derivative and foreign exchange transac-

tions as those used for traditional lending
products. In addition, the Firm actively

manages the credit risk of the derivative

counterparties with credit, interest rate,

foreign exchange, equities and commodity

derivatives. In terms of credit risk outstanding expo-
sure, the true measure of risk from deriva-

tive and foreign exchangecontracts is the

mark-to-market value of the contracts at a
point in time (i.e., the cost to replace the

contract at the current market rates should
the counterparty default prior to the settle-ment date). For most derivative transac-
tions, the notional principal amount does
not change hands; it is simply an amount
that is used as a reference upon which to

calculate payments. While notional princi-
pal is the most commonly used volume
measure in the derivative and foreign

exchange markets, it is not a measure of

credit risk. The $24 trillion of notional prin-

cipal of the FirmÕs derivative and foreign

exchangecontracts outstanding at

December 31, 2001, does not represent a

proxy for, and significantly exceeds the pos-

sible credit losses that could arise from

such transactions. At December 31, 2001,
the associated mark-to-market value of the
contracts, or the amount owed to the
Firm, was $71 billion after taking into con-
sideration the benefit of legally enforceable

master netting agreements. Further, after

taking into account $20 billion of collateral
held by the Firm at year-end, the net credit

exposure owed to the Firm relating to

derivative and foreign exchangecontracts

was $51 billion.The FirmÕs primary counterparties in deriva-
tive and foreign exchange transactions are

investment-grade financial institutions, most
of which are dealers in these products. The

investment-grade equivalent portion of the
derivative and foreign exchange contracts

portfolio was 83% at December 31, 2001.Many of the FirmÕs derivative and foreign
exchange contracts are short term, which

also mitigates credit risk, since these trans-

actions settle quickly. The table on the next

page provides the remaining maturities of

derivative and foreign exchange contracts

outstanding at December 31, 2001 and
2000. The maturity profile remained rela-

tively consistent with the prior year.
At December 31, 2001, the Firm hadapproximately $41 billion in notional value

related to energy trading commodity con-tracts with unrealized gains of $4.3 billion

and unrealized losses of $2.8 billion.
At December 31, 2001, nonperformingderivative contracts were $170 million,

compared with $37 million at December

31, 2000. $2.6 billion. At year-end 2001, after giving
effect to net charge-offs, write-downs and

payments of $0.5 billion, Enron-related

exposure was $2.1 billion. The following

table provides details of Enron-related

exposure at year end:
December 31,2001 (in millions)
Exposure
Unsecured(a)$ 169Secured by pipelines and other assets440Credit-worthy joint ventures74Surety receivables and letter of credit
1,130Debtor-in-possession financing (ÒDIPÓ)
(b)250Total Enron-related exposure$2,063(a)Includes $58 million in undrawn letters of credit.
(b)DIP financings are backed by the unencumbered
assets of the company,and the lender receives priority

from the bankruptcy court in terms of payment.There

have been no drawdowns as of February 26,2002.
Nonperforming Enron-related assets at
December 31, 2001 were comprised of

$98 million of nonperforming loans, $45
million of nonperforming derivatives, and
the $1,130 million of nonperforming
other receivables, which represent surety

receivables and a letter of credit that are
the subject of litigation with insurance
companies and a foreign bank.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
5152JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Consumer portfolioThe following table presents managed consumer credit-related information for the dates indicated: 
As of or for the year ended Credit-relatedNonperforming Past due 90 days and Average annual
December 31,assetsassetsNet charge-offsover and accruingnet charge-off rate
(in millions,except ratios)
200120002001200020012000(c)2001200020012000(c)Consumer loansDomestic consumer:1-4 family residential mortgages$59,430$50,302$280$269$50
$36
$Ñ$20.09%0.08%Credit card Ð reported 19,38718,49522269906934493275.095.00Credit card securitizations(a)21,42417,871ÑÑ1,0489774573875.835.20Credit card Ð managed 40,81136,36622262,0381,6709067145.455.12Auto financings
25,66719,8021187613789110.590.46Other consumer(b)8,0967,991791317618236712.171.88Total consumer loans$134,004$114,461$499$384$2,401$1,977$943
$7881.92%1.82%(a)Represents the portion of credit card receivables that have been securitized.
(b)Consists of installment loans (direct and indirect types of consumer finance),student loans,unsecured revolving lines of cre
dit and foreign consumer loans.
(c)Excludes the effect of the FFIEC-related charge of $93 million.
Maturity profile
20012000InterestForeignEquity,InterestForeignEquity,
rateexchangecommodity and rateexchangecommodity and
December 31,contractscontractsother contractsTotalcontractscontractsother contractsTotal
Less than 1 year13%84%33%21%
12%89%40%28%
1 to 5 years45145843
4595741
Over 5 years422936
432331
Total100%100%100%100%
100%100%100%100%
Percentages are based upon remaining contract life of mark-to-market exposure amounts.
Selected country exposure
At December 31,2001
At Dec 31,
2000Cross-border
TotalTotal
total(in billions)Lending(a)Trading(b)Other(c)Totallocal(d)exposure
(e)exposure(e)Brazil
$1.0$0
.8$0.6$2.4$0.9$3.3
$2.4Mexico1.20.70.32.20.42.6
3.3Argentina0.30.2Ñ0.50.10.6
1.4Venezuela0.20.1Ñ0.3Ñ0.3
0.4South Africa 0.20.30.10.60.10.7
1.3Japan2.93.50.67.03.710.7
14.4Indonesia0.40.1Ñ0.50.10.6
0.9Turkey
0.10.10.10.3Ñ0.3
0.7(a)Lending includes loans and accrued interest receivable,interest-bearing deposits with banks,acceptances,other monetary asset
s,issued letters of credit,and undrawn commitments to extend credit.
(b)Trading includes (1) issuer exposure on cross-border debt and equity instruments,held in both trading and investment account
s,adjusted for the impact of issuer hedges including credit derivatives;and (2) counterparty exposure on derivative and foreign

exchange contracts as well as security financing trades (resale agreements and securities borrowed).The amounts associated with

derivative and foreign exchange contracts are presented on a mark-to-market (ÒMTMÓ) basis after taking into account the impact

of legally enforceable master netting agreements,as well as collateral.MTM on such contracts may fluctuate in response to marke
tmoves in underlying asset values.The FirmÕs internal risk model incorporates the correlation between such asset values (includi
ngvalue of collateral) and a counterpartyÕs credit worthiness.Amounts reflect any fair value adjustment on derivative positions.
(c)Mainly local exposure funded cross-border.

(d)Local exposure is defined as exposure to a country denominated in local currency,booked and funded locally.

(e)Total exposure includes exposure to both government and private sector entities in a country.
Country exposure
The Firm has a process for measuring and
managing its country exposures and risk.

Exposures to a country include all credit-relat-

edlending, trading and investment activities. The table to the right presents JPMorgan
ChaseÕs exposure to selected countries. This

disclosure is based on managementÕs view of

country exposure. Amounts as of December

31, 2000 have been restated to conform to

the current presentation.
The Firm has been closely managing itsexposure to Argentina over the last several

quarters and, in particular, in the months

leading up to the governmentÕs announce-

ment of a restructuring of its bond obliga-

tions. Since March of 2001, the Firm reduced

its exposure to Argentina from $1.8 billion

to $0.6 billion (before loan loss allowances).

The latter number includes the effect of fair

value adjustments on the derivatives portfo-
lio ($0.2 billion) and write-downs of market
positions ($0.1 billion) taken by the end of
December 2001. In addition, the Firm took a $140 millionprovision against its loans to Argentina. The
increase in the FirmÕs exposure to Brazil was
largely concentrated in short-term lending
and trading activity. 
Consumer loans by geographic region
ResidentialManaged creditAuto
mortgage loanscard loansfinancings
December 31,(in millions)
200120002001200020012000New York City
$6,638$5,537$2,431$2,146$2,244$1,762New York (excluding New York City)
4,9763,7742,4262,227868793Remaining Northeast8,9547,3327,1436,5635,6514,445Total Northeast20,56816,64312,00010,9368,7637,000Southeast8,1647,0437,8006,8844,4633,372Midwest4,0603,7477,9017,1353,6682,206Texas3,5662,6863,4342,9523,4953,338Southwest (excluding Texas)
1,4281,4061,9521,720931869California16,82014,5045,0654,4553,3702,397West (excluding California)4,8244,2732,6592,284977620Foreign506292763822Total$59,936$50,594$40,818$36,372$25,705$19,824JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
53Auto financings:Auto financings increased
30% from year-end 2000, reflecting strong

consumer demandduring the second halfof 2001 as a result of favorable pricing

programs. The moderately higher charge-off

rate in 2001 reflected consumer defaults

in a weaker economic environment.
Managed credit card receivables increased
12% during 2001. The increase in the net

charge-off rate was a result of higher

consumer bankruptcy levels as well as
higher contractual losses (i.e., losses on
accounts not bankrupt). A new collection system for Cardmember
Services was installed in the fourth quarter
of 2000, the benefits of which were evi-

denced in 2001. This system significantly
improved the productivity of collections

and the accuracy and sophistication of risk
prediction models, as well as enabling the

Firm to move more quickly to decrease

credit card lines for high-risk accounts.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs consumer portfolio 
consists primarily of mortgages, credit

cards and auto financings. This portfolio

is predominately domestic and contin-

ues to be geographically well-diversified.The FirmÕs managed consumer portfolio
totaled $134 billion at December 31,
2001, an increase of $20 billion, or 17%,

from 2000. The following pie graph 

provides a summary of the consumer

portfolio by loan type at 2001 year-end

and each loan typeÕs respective charge-

off rate. The FirmÕs largest component,

residential mortgage loans, comprised44% of the total consumer portfolio and
is primarily secured by first mortgages.
Consumer loans
Residential mortgage loans:1-4 family
residential mortgage loans increased
18% during 2001. While net charge-offs

for 2001 increased $14 million, or 39%,

over the prior year, the 2001 net charge-

off rate remained low at 0.09%, reflect-

ing the continued strong credit quality of

the portfolio.Credit card loans:
The Firm analyzes itscredit card portfolio on a Òmanaged

basis,Ó which includes credit card receiv-

ables on the balance sheet as well as
credit card receivables that have been

securitized. Credit card managed 31%Charge-off rate:2001 - 5.45%
2000 - 5.12%Residential mortgage 44%Charge-off rate:2001 - 0.09%
2000 - 0.08%Consumer managed loan portfolioCharge-off rates for 2000 exclude the effect of the FFIEC-related charge of $93 million.Other consumer 6%
Charge-off rate:
2001 - 2.17%
2000 - 1.88%Auto 19% Charge-off rate:
2001 - 0.59%
2000 - 0.46%54JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Allowance componentsLending-relatedLoanscommitments
December 31,(in millions)
2001200020012000Commercial specific and expected$1,724$1,521$226$250Consumer expected2,1051,444ÑÑTotal specific and expected3,8292,965226250Residual component6957005633Total$4,524$3,665$282$283Allowance for credit losses
LoansJPMorgan ChaseÕs Allowance for loan
losses is intended to cover probable credit

losses for which either the asset is not
specifically identified or the size of the
loss has not been fully determined.
Within the allowance, there are specific
and expected loss components and a

residual component. The specific loss componentcoversthose commercial loans deemed by the

Firm to be criticized. The Firm internally

categorizes its criticized commercial

loans into three groups: doubtful, sub-

standard and special mention. 
Nonperforming commercial loans
(excluding leases) are considered to be

impaired loans. The allowance for

impaired loans is computed using the

methodology under SFAS 114. An

allowance is established when the dis-
counted cash flows (or collateral value or
observable market price) of an impaired

loan is lower than the carrying value of
that loan. For purposes of computing 
the specific loss component of the
allowance, larger impaired loans are

evaluated individually, and smaller

impaired loans are evaluated as a pool

using historical loss experience for the
respective class of assets. The criticizedbut still performing loans also are evalu-

ated as a pool using historical loss rates. The expected loss componentcovers performing commercial loans (except 

criticized loans) and consumer loans.Expected losses are the product of
default probability and loss severity. The

computation of the expected loss com-
ponent of the allowance is based on esti-

mates of these factors in JPMorgan
ChaseÕs credit risk capital model. These

estimates are differentiated by risk rating

and maturity for commercial loans.
The expected loss estimates for eachconsumer loan portfolio are based pri-

marily on the FirmÕs historical loss experi-

ence for the applicable product portfolio. 
Finally, a 
residual componentis main-tained to cover uncertainties that could
affect managementÕs estimate of proba-
ble losses. The residual component of
the allowance reflects the margin of

imprecision inherent in the underlying

assumptions used in the methodologies

for estimating specific losses and expect-
ed losses in both the commercial and

consumer portfolios. It is anticipated that
the residual component of the allowance

will range between 10% and 20% of

the total allowance for loan losses.Factors affecting the uncertainty of spe-
cific loss and expected loss estimates
include the volatility of default probabili-

ties, rating migrations and loss severity.

These uncertainties also could relate to

current macroeconomic and political

conditions, the impact of currency deval-

uations on cross-border exposures,

changes in underwriting standards, unex-

pected correlations within the portfolio

or other factors.The FirmÕs Risk Management Committee
reviews, at least quarterly, the allowance
for loan losses relative to the risk profile

of the FirmÕs credit portfolio and current

economic conditions. The allowance is

adjusted based on that review if, in man-

agementÕs judgment, changes are war-

ranted.The total specific and expected
allowance for commercial loan losses

was $1,724 million at December 31,
2001, an increase of 13% from the prior

year-end. The specific loss component

was approximately $1 billion, up signifi-

cantly from year-end 2000 reflecting an

increase in commercial loans deemed by

the Firm to be criticized. The expected
loss component of the commercial
allowance was approximately $700 
million at year-end 2001, a decrease of

approximately
20% from the prior year-
end as a result of a lower level of com-

mercial loans outstanding. 
The consumer expected loss componentof approximately $2.1 billion increased

46% from the prior year-end reflecting

the growth in consumer portfo
lios and achallenging credit environment.
The residual component at December
31, 2001 was $695 million, approxi-

mately the same at year-end 2000. The

residual component represented approxi-
mately 15% of the total allowance for
loan losses.The FirmÕs concerns with respect to the
continuing challenging credit environ-

ment are reflected in the allowance for

credit losses, which was increased by

$850 million over the third and fourth

quarters of 2001. The allowance repre-

sented 2.08% of loans at December 31,
2001, compared with 1.70% at

December 31, 2000. As of December 31, 2001, managementdeemed the allowance to be adequate
(i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that 

currently may exist but are not yet 

identifiable).Lending-related commitments
To provide for risk of losses inherent in
the credit extension process, manage-

ment also computes specific and expect-
ed loss components as well as a residual

component for lending-related commit-

ments, using a methodology similar to
that used for the loan portfolio. JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
55Market risk managementThe Firm employs a comprehensive
approach to market-risk management for

its trading, investment and asset/liability
management (ÒA/LÓ) portfolios. Responsible

for maintaining a sound market-risk con-
trol environment, the FirmÕs Market Risk

Management Group operates independ-

ently of the business units it monitors, and
comprises professionals in major markets

around the globe. 
LimitsJPMorgan Chase controls market risk 

primarily through a series of limits.

Approved by the FirmÕs Risk Management

Committee, these limits align specific risk-
taking activities with the overall risk
appetite of the Firm and of the individual
business units. Limits are set based on analyses of both
the market environment and business
strategy. The analyses encompass criteria
such as market volatility, liquidity of the

products involved, business track record,

and management experience and depth.
JPMorgan Chase reviews risk limits regularly

and the FirmÕs Market Risk Management

Group updates the risk limits at least twice

a year. The Market Risk Management Group

further limits the FirmÕs exposure by specifi-

cally designating which financial instru-
ments each business unit may trade. Types of limits and where they apply:
At the corporate level:¥ Value-at-risk (ÒVARÓ)

¥ Stress test loss advisories
At the segment and line of business levels:
¥ VAR

¥ Nonstatistical limits

¥ P&L loss advisories
The Firm establishes VAR limits at the
aggregate corporate and top-level busi-

ness, or unit levels. The Firm complements
VAR with restrictions on overall portfolio
size, and the amount of value a portfolio
can lose as measured by hypothetical stress

test scenarios. Additional types of limits
may apply to business sub-units. As a rule,
all businesses are expected to maintain

exposures within their limits. If a limit is

exceeded, the business is responsible for

immediately reducing exposure to a level

within the limit. When this is not possible
within an acceptable timeframe, senior
management is consulted on the appropri-

ate method of reducing exposure.

Together, these techniques reduce the like-
lihood that trading losses will exceed the
risk appetite of the Firm as a whole, or that
of a single business.Risk measurement
Because no single measure can reflect all

aspects of market risk, the Firm uses sev-
eral risk measures, both statistical and

nonstatistical. This combined approach

gives JPMorgan Chase a more compre-

hensive view of its exposure, and

enhances the stability of the FirmÕs rev-

enues from market-risk-taking activities. 
Risk measures:
¥Statistical risk measures
- VAR
¥Nonstatistical risk measures
- Stress testing
¼Economic value¼Net interest income (ÒNIIÓ)
- Notional portfolio value
- Basis point value (ÒBPVÓ)

- Risk identification for large exposures
(ÒRIFLEÓ)Value-at-riskJPMorgan ChaseÕs statistical risk measure,

VAR, gauges the dollar amount of poten-tial loss from adverse market moves in an
ordinary market environment. Each busi-
ness day, the Firm undertakes a compre-

hensive VAR calculation that includes the

trading and investment portfolios, plus all
JPMorgan Chase market-risk-related A/L

activities. JPMorgan ChaseÕs VAR calculation is
highly granular, comprising more than

500,000 positions and 220,000 market
prices, e.g., securities prices, interest

rates, and foreign-exchange rates. For a

large portion of the FirmÕs exposure,
JPMorgan Chase has implemented full-revaluation VAR, which management
believes tends to generate more accurate

results. To calculate VAR, the Firm uses historical
simulation, which measures risk across

instruments and portfolios in a consistent,
comparable way. This approach assumes

that actual historical changes in market
prices are representative of possible future

changes. The simulation is based on data

for the previous 12-month period. 
Market risk represents the potential
loss in value of portfolios and finan-
cial instruments caused by move-
ments in market variables, such as
interest and foreign-exchange rates,

credit spreads, and equity and com-

modity prices.JPMorgan Chase employs comprehensive, rigorous processes to measure,
monitor and control market risk. 
Key terms:¥VAR: Worst-case loss expected within the confidence level; while larger losses are
possible, they have a correspondingly low probability of actually occurring 
¥Full-revaluation VAR: Method that prices each financial instrument separately,
based on the actual pricing models used by the lines of business; compared with

sensitivity-based VAR, which only approximates the impact of market moves on

financial instrument prices¥Back-testing: Validating a model by comparing its predictions with actual results 
¥Confidence level: The probability that actual losses will not exceed estimated VAR;
the greater the confidence level, the higher the VAR
56JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Aggregate portfolio
Year ended December 31,2001
AverageMinimumMaximumAt December31,
(in millions) VARVARVAR2001
Trading portfolio:Interest rate 
$51.1$26.1$97.1$85.3
Foreign exchange7.43.916.98.7
Equities 21.68.936.910.7
Commodities5.22.513.913.7
Hedge fund investments 3.12.54.23.5
Less:Portfolio diversification 
(21.0)NMNM(28.6)
Total trading VAR 
67.448.1103.893.3
Investment portfolio andA/L activities(a)107.279.8143.9130.7
Less:Portfolio diversification 
(45.4)NMNM(84.2)
Total VAR
(b)$129.2$98.2$174.0$139.8
(a) Substantially all of the risk is interest-rate related.
(b) The 
FirmÕs aggregate VAR at the end of 2001 was higher than the average VARprimarily due to increased market volatilitydur-
ing November and December and to a relatively low diversification among businesses as a result of particular positions taken

at that time.Corporate VARat the end of 2001 is not necessarily indicative of the FirmÕs future VAR levels.
NM-Because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components,it is not meaningful to
compute a portfolio diversification effect.JPMorgan ChaseÕs average and period-end VARare less than the sum of the

VARs of its market risk components due to risk offsets resulting from portfolio diversification.
All statistical models involve a degree of
uncertainty, depending on the assump-

tions they employ. The Firm prefers his-

torical simulation because it involves
fewer assumptions about the distribution
of portfolio losses than parameter-based

methodologies. To evaluate the soundness of the FirmÕs
VAR model, JPMorgan Chase conductsdaily back-testing of VAR against actual

financial results. In addition, the Firm 

rigorously assesses the quality of the mar-

ket data, since their accuracy is critical to
computing VAR. 
JPMorgan Chase calculated the VAR num-
bers reported to the right using a one-day

time horizon and a 99% confidence level.
This means the Firm would expect to
incur losses greater than predicted by VAR

estimates only once in every 100 trading
days, or about 2.5 times a year. For the

year 2001, actual Firm-wide trading losses
exceeded the VAR on one day, a result

which does not differ significantly from

the 99% confidence level.Although no single risk statistic can reflect
all aspects of market risk, the table to the
right provides a meaningful overview of

the FirmÕs market risk exposure arising

from trading activities and the investment

and A/L portfolio. The investment and

A/L activities are accounted for on an
Stress testing
While VAR reflects the risk of loss due to

unlikely events in normal markets, stress

testing captures the FirmÕs exposure to

unlikely but plausible events in abnormal
markets. Stress testing is equally important

as VAR to the Firm in measuring and con-

trolling its risk. The Firm stress tests its

portfolios at least once a month, at both
the corporate and line-of-business levels,
using multiple scenarios. Scenarios are con-
tinuallyreviewed and updated to reflect
changes in the FirmÕs risk profile and eco-

nomic events.The FirmÕs stress testing methodology
assumes that, during an actual stress

event, no action would be taken to change
the risk profile of the FirmÕs portfolios. This

lets the Firm capture the decreased liquidity

that often occurs with abnormal markets,and results, in the FirmÕs view, in a conser-
vative stress test result. 
The FirmÕs Risk Management Committee
has established stress test loss advisories

for the Firm. Should a stress test loss

exceed a designated threshold, responsible

business managers and senior manage-
ment discuss how best to reduce the rele-

vant risk exposure. 
JPMorgan Chase conducts both economic-value and NII stress tests. Applying eco-

nomic-value stress tests to the FirmÕs trad-

ing portfolio, investment portfolio and A/L

activities helps the Firm understand how
the economic value of its balance sheet
(not the amounts reported under GAAP)

would be likely to change under certain
scenarios.As the chart at the top of the next pageshows for 2001, JPMorgan Chase posted
positive daily market risk-related revenue

for 220 out of 251 days, with 89 days
exceeding positive $50 million. No daily
trading losses were incurred in excess of

$125 million. The inset examines the 31 days on whichJPMorgan Chase posted trading losses, and
depicts the amount by which the VAR was

greater than the actual loss on each day.

The inset shows that a loss exceeded the
VAR on only one day (when the Firm rec-
ognized trading losses related to its expo-

sure to Enron), a performance statistically

consistent with the FirmÕs VARÕs 99% confi-

dence level. A note on confidence levels:Commonly set between 95% and
99%, confidence levels reflect the degree to which the statistical

model accurately captures the more extreme risks that can occur

over the time horizon. Using a 95% confidence level (as compared 

with a confidence level of 99%) reduces the predicted VAR by 

approximately 30%.
accrual basis; therefore, changes in value
do not impact income results in the

same manner as trading positions. JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
57Largest monthly stress test loss Ñ pre-tax
Year ended December 31,2001*
(in millions)AverageMinimumMaximumAt 
December 31,2001
Stress test loss Ð pre-tax$(381)$(118)$(641)$(504)
* Corporate stress-test results for the month of December reflect updated market stress scenarios.
< (40)(20) > < (10)(10) > < 00 > < 1010 > < 2020 > < 3030 > < 4040 > < 5050 > < 6060 > < 7070 > < 8080 > < 9090 > < 100100 > < 110 > 110(30) > < (20)(40) > < (30)Daily market risk-related revenue
010203040Number of trading days
$ in millions151050Average daily revenue: $40.0 million  
The graph below depicts the number of days on which JPMorgan Chase's market risk-related revenues fell
within particular ranges. The inset graph to the right looks at those days on which the Firm experienced

trading losses, and depicts the amount by which the VAR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days.
Number of trading days
Daily VAR less trading losses
$ in millions<00><2020><4040><6060><80>80151050The following table represents the potential economic value stress test loss (pre-tax) in
JPMorgan ChaseÕs trading portfolio predicted by JPMorgan ChaseÕs stress test scenarios:
The more conventional NII stress test reveals
the potential change in JPMorgan ChaseÕs

net interest income over the next year. NII

stress tests highlight exposures to various

interest-rate-sensitive factors, such as rates

(e.g., the prime-lending rate), pricing strate-
gies on deposits, and changes in product

mix. NII stress tests also take into account

forecasted balance sheet changes, such as

asset sales and securitizations, as well as
prepayment and reinvestment behavior.
Other nonstatistical risk measures
Nonstatistical risk measures other than

stress testing include net open positions,

basis point values, option sensitivities,
position concentrations and position
turnover. These risk measures provide

additional information on an exposureÕs

size and the direction in which it is moving.
Some material risks may escape detectionthrough VAR, stress testing and the non-

statistical risk measures described above.

JPMorgan Chase identifies these potential
earnings vulnerabilities through the RIFLE

system. Individuals who manage risk posi-
tions use this system to identify potential
Òworst-caseÓ losses and estimate the
probability of loss. Through RIFLE, this

information flows to the appropriate level

of management. Capital allocationJPMorgan Chase allocates market risk
capital to each major business division
according to a formula that weights the

divisionÕs VAR and stress test exposures. 
The VAR measure captures a large num-
ber of one-day price moves, while stress

tests capture a smaller number of very

large price moves. Under the capital allo-
cation formula, capital is allocated to VAR

exposure and stress test exposure equally.
58JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Operational risk is the risk of loss
resulting from inadequate or
failed processes or systems,

human factors, or external events.
Operational risk managementOverviewOperational risk is an inherent risk ele-
ment in each of the FirmÕs businesses and

key support activities. Such risk can mani-
fest itself in various ways, including break-

downs, errors, business interruptions, and

inappropriate behavior of employees, and

can potentially result in financial losses

and other damage to the Firm.To monitor and control such risk, the
Firm maintains a system of comprehen-

sive policies and a control framework

designed to provide a sound and well-

controlled operational environment. The

goal is to keep operational risk at appro-

priate levels in view of the FirmÕs finan-

cial strength, the characteristics of its

businesses and the markets in which it
operates, and the competitive and regu-

latory environment to which it is subject.
Notwithstanding its control environ-
ment, the Firm has incurred operational

risk losses from time to time, and there

can be no assurance that such losses will
not be incurred in the future.
Components of the JPMorganChase operational risk 
management practiceThe FirmÕs operational risk practice is
comprised of several integrated 
components:Governance structure:
The governance
structure provides the framework for,

and sets the direction of, the FirmÕs

operational risk management activities. Primary responsibility for managing opera-
tional risk rests with business managers.
These individuals, with the support oftheir staffs, are responsible for establish-

ing and maintaining internal control pro-

cedures that are appropriate for their par-

ticular operating environments.
The Corporate Operational Risk (ÒCORÓ)team, reporting to the FirmÕs Productivity

and Quality Executive under the overall
responsibility of the Vice Chairman 
for Finance, Risk Management and
Administration, has oversight responsi-

bility for the FirmÕs operational risk man-

agement initiatives. The COR team is
currently executing a multi-year plan to

develop a new integrated operational
risk approach that emphasizes active

management of operational risk
throughout the Firm. 
In 2001, the COR team created the
Operational Risk Committee (ÒORCÓ),

comprised of senior operational risk and
finance managers from each of the busi-

nesses. The ORC meets quarterly to dis-

cuss key operational risk issues of impor-
tance to the Firm. In addition, each of
the businesses is required by COR policy

to maintain business control committees

which are responsible for overseeing the

operational risk management practices

within their respective businesses.
Self-assessment process:
In 2001, arevised, firm-wide self-assessmentprocess was designed and implemented.

The focus of the process is to identify the

key risks specific to each businessÕ oper-
ating environment, and for each business

to assess the degree to which it is main-

taining internal control procedures appro-

priate for its operating environment.
¥Operational risk management is a principal risk discipline within the Firm¥Business managers are responsible for maintaining a comprehensive system of
internal controls in order to manage operational risk effectively
¥The Corporate Operational Risk team is executing a multi-year plan to developa new, integrated, firm-wide approach for managing and analyzing

operational riskComponents of the FirmÕs operational risk management practice
¥Governance structure
- Corporate Operational Risk team oversight
- Operational risk policies

- Operational Risk Committee
- Business control committees
¥Self-assessment process
- Owned by the businesses

- Focused on business-specific key risks and controls

- Automated using Horizon tool¥Risk event database- Internal data collected and analyzed

- Enables comparative analysis with external data (where available)
¥Use of key risk indicators as leading indicators¥Alignment with internal audit activities
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
59Year-end self-assessments were com-
pleted by the businesses in 2001 utiliz-
ing Horizon, an automated software

application developed by the Firm. With

the aid of Horizon, the Firm expects to
move in 2002 from an annual, year-end

self-assessment process to one that will

be used by the businesses as an ongo-
ing, dynamic risk management tool.Risk event database:This databasewas extended firm-wide in 2001. The
database enables the collection of oper-ational event data thereby permitting

analysis of errors and losses incurred

(including analysis of trends and patterns),

leading to a better understanding of the
risk events faced by the businesses.

Where available, the internal data can

be supplemented with external data for

comparative analysis with industry pat-
terns. The data collected in the risk

event database will also enable the Firm
to back-test against self-assessment
results. Key risk indicators:Many of the busi-nesses have incorporated Òkey risk indi-
catorsÓ for use as leading indicators in
their operational risk management prac-
tices. This risk management tool will be
further developed in 2002.Audit alignment:Close collaborationbetween the COR team and the FirmÕs

internal audit function has helped fur-

ther the firm-wide implementation of
the operational risk approach, which in

turn has led to a stronger overall control

environment.
Capital allocation methodologyA combined capital amount for opera-
tional risk and business risk is derived
through top-down benchmarking, by

business, against comparable financial
institutions. Capital is allocated to each
business based on its complexity,
expense base and control quality.
Benefits of an integrated approach to operational risk management
¥Foundation for strong analysis of operational risk events
¥Ability to understand causal factors, resulting in opportunity to mitigate future
losses¥Consistent with approach and tools used by credit and market risk
management¥Aligned with the FirmÕs internal audit activities and Six Sigma principles to
achieve maximum efficiencies
¥Designed to lead to a more efficient use of capital and improved financial
performance2002 initiatives Specific 2002 initiatives include: ¥ Developing a risk-adjusted frameworkfor capital measurement and allocation

based on specific business metrics and
loss experience, that will provide direct

incentives for active management of
operational risks. This initiative will be
guided by Six Sigma principles.¥ Reviewing and standardizing, as

appropriate, the roles and responsibili-

ties of operational risk managers and
key support functions throughout the

Firm.¥ Identifying Òkey risk indicatorsÓ to be
used by the various businesses.¥ Integrating operational risk manage-
ment with the FirmÕs Six Sigma process

improvement initiatives.
¥ Refining, as appropriate, the self-

assessment process begun in 2001.
Impact of the events ofSeptember 11on the operationalrisk practices of the Firm The events of September 11th strongly
tested the FirmÕs operational risk practices,

and demonstrated the importance of its
disaster recovery contingency planning.

While the FirmÕs businesses were able suc-

cessfully to implement their disaster recov-

ery plans, and to avoid serious operational
losses, there were neverthelessi
mportantlessons learned by the entire financial

community. These lessons are currently

under review for incorporation, as

appropriate, into the FirmÕs ongoing

contingency planning. 60JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Liquidity risk managementLiquidity risk management policyLiquidity risk arises from the general fund-
ing needs of the FirmÕs activities and in

the management of its assets. Liquidity
risk management focuses on the risk that
the Firm will be unable to replace matur-

ing obligations when due or fund its
assets at appropriate maturities and rates. 
JPMorgan Chase recognizes the impor-
tance of sound liquidity management and
has developed a liquidity framework
intended to maximize liquidity access and
minimize funding costs.Liquidity risk management responsibilitiesThe Capital Committee sets the overallliquidity policy and oversees the contin-
gency funding plan. The Capital Committeealso reviews the FirmÕs exposure to special
purpose entities (ÒSPEÓ), with particular
focus on potential liquidity support require-

ments the Firm may have to such SPEs.The Liquidity Risk Committee is responsi-
ble for policy adherence, developing con-

tingency planning, and monitoring inter-
nal and external liquidity warning signals,

such as unusual widening of spreads, to

permit timely detection of liquidity issues.Liquidity risk management frameworkThe contingency funding plan considerstemporary and long-term stress scenarios,

where access to unsecured funding is

severely limited or nonexistent. 
The plan forecasts potential funding
needs, taking into account both on- and
off-balance sheet exposures, evaluating

separately access to funds by the parent

holding company and JPMorgan Chase
Bank.The goals of the plan are intended to
ensure:
¥ Maintenance of appropriate liquidity 
during normal and stress periods
¥ Measurement and projection of funding
requirements during periods of stress
¥ Management of access to fundingsources
The FirmÕs liquidity risk framework also
incorporates tools to monitor three pri-

mary measures of liquidity. Each liquidity

position is managed to provide sufficient

surplus liquidity:¥ Cash capital surplus:Measures the
FirmÕs ability to fund assets on a fully 

collateralized basis, assuming access to
unsecured funding is lost.
¥ Basic surplus:Measures JPMorgan
Chase BankÕs ability to sustain a 90-day

stress event that is specific to the Firm

where no new funding can be raised to

meet obligations as they come due.
¥ Holding company short-term surplus:Measures the parent holding companyÕs

ability to repay all obligations with a

maturity under one year at a time when
the ability of the FirmÕs banks to pay divi-

dends to the parent holding company is

constrained.All three measures involve estimates and
rely on managementÕs judgment about
the FirmÕs ability to liquidate assets or use

them as collateral for borrowings. 
Each of the FirmÕs liquidity surplus posi-
tions, as of December 31, 2001, indicate
that JPMorgan ChaseÕs long-dated fund-

ing, including core deposits, exceeds

illiquid assets and that the FirmÕs obliga-

tions can be met if access to funding is
impaired. 
The JPMorgan Chase liquidity risk management framework incorpo-rates a Contingency Funding Plan and three main monitoring tools:
¥Cash capital surplus
¥Basic surplus¥Holding company short-term surplus(in millions)Under1-34-5 After
Contractual cash obligations
1 yearyearsyears5 years
TotalLong-term debt$10,414$9,807$5,522$13,440
$39,183Operating leases6151,1459604,336
7,056Total $11,029$10,952$6,482$17,776
$46,239Off-balance sheet lending-related commitments
Credit card lines$104,785$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ
$104,785Commercial-related:Other unfunded commitments toextend credit(a)131,86033,51031,7037,324
204,397Standby letters of creditand guarantees21,9859,4806,2413,457
41,163Other letters of credit 1,7011469295
2,151Total commercial-related155,54643,13637,95311,076
247,711Total lending-related commitments
$260,331$43,136$37,953$11,076
$352,496(a) Includes $41.9 billion in unfunded commitments with commercial paper conduits.Such commitments may be drawn 
upon if the commercial paper market is not available to the issuer.
The following table summarizes JPMorgan ChaseÕs contractual cash obligations and
off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments by remaining maturity at

December 31, 2001:JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
61Sources of funds
JPMorgan Chase has access to diverseglobal funding sources. Liquidity is pro-

vided by a variety of both short-term and
long-term instruments, including deposits,
federal funds purchased, repurchase

agreements, commercial paper, bank

notes, medium- and long-term debt, cap-
ital securities, and stockholdersÕ equity.
A major source of liquidity for the FirmÕs
bank subsidiaries arises from their ability

to generate core deposits. Core deposits

include all domestic deposits, except
noninterest-bearing time deposits and

certificates of deposit of $100,000 or
more. In addition to core deposits, the

Firm generates substantial deposits from

its Treasury & Securities Services business. 
The ability to sell assets quickly is animportant additional source of liquidity for

the Firm. JPMorgan Chase holds mar-
ketable securities and other short-term
investments that can be readily converted

to cash. Loan syndication networks also
are utilized to facilitate the disposition of

assets when deemed desirable. The Firm uses asset securitization pro-
grams as alternative funding sources, 

to provide liquidity and for asset/liability

management purposes. In particular, 

securitization activities provide financing

for credit cards, residential mortgages,

auto loans, and commercial loans origi-

nated by JPMorgan Chase. SPEs are an

integral part of securitization structures.

Transactions between the Firm and theseentities are reflected in JPMorgan ChaseÕs

financial statements; these relationships

include retained interests in securitization

trusts, derivative transactions, and liquidity
facilities. For further details, see Notes 1,
9, and 25.The diversity of the Firm's fundingsources enhances funding flexibility, limits

dependence on any one source of funds,

and generally lowers the cost of funds. In
making funding decisions, management
considers market conditions, prevailing

interest rates, liquidity needs, and the

desired maturity profile of its liabilities.
Credit ratings
The cost and availability of unsecured

financing are influenced by credit ratings.

A reduction in these ratings could

increase cost and limit market access. 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs parent holding company
credit ratings as of December 31, 2001

were as follows:
Short-term debt Senior long-term debt
FitchF-1+AA-
MoodyÕs
P-1Aa3
S&PA-1+AA-
The ratings of the senior obligations ofJPMorgan Chase Bank are generally one

notch higher than the parent holding

company. At February 28, 2002, the 

ratings outlook for the parent holding

company by Standard & PoorÕs and Fitch

were negative, while the rating outlook

from MoodyÕs was stable.
62JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Private equity risk managementRisk managementJPMorgan Partners employs processes for
risk measurement and control that are

similar to those employed for other busi-
nesses within the Firm. Risk is initially
monitored through limits calculated on

original investment cost for the privately-
held securities in JPMPÕs portfolio through

risk-based measures such as VAR and

stress tests for the publicly-held securities

in the portfolio.JPMPÕs limits are also structured to monitor
potential industry sector and regional con-

centration issues. Industry limits have been
set limiting the portfolioÕs cost basis not to

exceed 20% to any single sector. Regional

limits have been set limiting the portfolioÕs

cost basis in international investments not

to exceed 40%. In addition, to manage the
pace of new investment activity, a ceiling

on the amount of annual direct private

equity investment activity has been set.JPMorgan PartnersÕ holdings in public equi-ties creates a significant exposure to gener-

al declines in the equity markets. To gauge

that risk, VAR and stress test exposures are

calculated in the same way as they are for

the FirmÕs trading and investment and

asset/liability portfolios. See the Market risk

management section of the MD&A on
pages 55-57. In addition, to reduce the

revenue volatility that results from this
exposure, the Firm entered into hedging

transactions that were intended to partially

offset public equity market movements.

These hedges were initially entered into

during the third quarter of 2001. At the

end of 2001, cumulative losses from these

hedges were $71 million, primarily as a

result of a rise in equity market price levelswhile the hedges were in place. The Firm

may change the nature and type of hedges

it enters into, as well as close a hedging
position altogether, at any point in time.
Capital allocationInternal capital is allocated to JPMPÕs public
equities portfolio based on stress scenarios

that are similar to those applied to other

businesses, and which reflect potential loss

in the event of a large equity market
decline. Capital is also allocated against
illiquidity risk, which results from the trad-

ing restrictions to which some holdings are

subject. For private equities, capital is allo-
cated based on a long-term equity market
stress scenario that is consistent with the

investment horizons associated with these
holdings. For these investments, additional
capital is allocated against the risk of an
unexpectedly large number of write-offs or

write-downs. For both public and private equities, theoverall internal capital allocation exceeds

50% of the investmentsÕ carrying value.
This is a significantly higher allocation than
the amount that is currently required for

regulatory capital.Business combinations and intangible assetsIn June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 141,
which revises the financial accounting and

reporting for business combinations, andSFAS 142, which revises the financial

accounting and reporting for goodwill and

other intangible assets. SFAS 141 requires

that all business combinations be account-
ed for using the purchase method.

Accounting for business combinations
using the pooling of interests method no

longer is allowed. SFAS 141 also requires

that intangible assets acquired in a busi-

ness combination be recognized apart

from goodwill if the intangible assets meet

one of two criteria Ñ the contractual-legal
criterion or the separability criterion. The
provisions of SFAS 141 apply to all busi-

ness combinations initiated after June 30,
2001 as well as business combinations
accounted for by the purchase method for

which the date of acquisition is July 1,
2001 or later. 
SFAS 142 establishes how intangible assets
(other than those acquired in a business
Accounting and reporting developments
combination) should be accounted for
upon acquisition. It also addresses how

goodwill and other intangible assets should
be accounted for subsequent to their
acquisition. Goodwill and intangible assets
that have indefinite useful lives no longer
will be amortized but will be tested at least
annually for impairment. Intangible assets
with finite lives will continue to be amor-
tized over their useful lives. The provisions

of SFAS 142 are required to be adopted

January 1, 2002. Impairment losses that
arise due to the initial application of SFAS

142 are required to be reported as a

change in accounting principle.The Firm has determined that the adop-tion of SFAS 142 will not result in an

impairment of goodwill. Based on current

levels of amortization expense, the Firm
estimates that the elimination of goodwill
amortization expense will reduce total

noninterest expense by approximately

$580 million during 2002 and that ongoing amortization expense will beapproximately $150 million per year (prior
to the Providian card acquisition in the first

quarter of 2002).DerivativesJPMorgan Chase adopted SFAS 133, which

establishes accounting and reporting stan-

dards for all derivative instruments, at

January 1, 2001. For a further discussion
on the adoption of SFAS 133, see Note 24.
Allowance for loan lossesIn 1999, the Accounting Standards

Executive Committee of the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants
formed the Allowance for Loan Losses Task

Force (ÒTask ForceÓ) to research current

accounting guidance and practices as they
relate to loan losses. It is currently expected
that the Task Force will issue an exposure

draft of a statement of position in the sec-
ond half of 2002 that will provide addition-

al accounting and reporting guidance and

clarification of the factors to consider in
determining the allowance for loan losses. 
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
63Comparison between 2000 and 1999JPMorgan 
ChaseÕs reported net income
was $5.73 billion in 2000 compared with

$7.50 billion in 1999. Diluted net income
per share was $2.86 in 2000 compared

with $3.69 in 1999.
Operating results Including JPMP
Operating earnings, 
including JPMorganPartners, were $5.93 billion in 2000, a

decrease of 20% from 1999. Diluted

operating earnings per share decreased

19% when compared with the prior year. 
Operating revenues in 2000 rose 3% to
$32.8 billion reflecting the impact of the

Hambrecht & Quist (ÒH&QÓ), Flemings and

The Beacon Group, LLC (ÒBeaconÓ) acqui-

sitions, which resulted in higher investment

banking fees, trading-related revenue and

fees and commissions. The increases in rev-

enues were partially offset by lower private

equity gains, which were significantly

affected by the sharp decline in the NAS-

DAQ during 2000 compared with 1999.

Net interest income, on an operating basis,

was $10.0 billion in 2000, remaining rela-

tively stable with 1999. Operating expenses were $21.4 billion in
2000, an increase of 20% from the prior

year. The growth in expenses reflected, in

particular, the investments in talent and

infrastructure of the Investment Bank to

deepen its product capabilities, and at

Investment Management & Private
Banking to broaden its geographic reach.
Credit costs during 2000 were $2.37 bil-
lion compared with $2.44 billion in 1999.

The slight decrease was due to the impact

of lower net charge-offsin 
both the com-mercial and consumer loan portfolios.
Income tax expense in2000 on a reported
basis was $3.01 billion compared with

$3.99 billion in 1999. The effective tax

rate was 34.4% for 2000 compared with

34.7% for 1999.Operating results excluding JPMP
JPMorgan ChaseÕs cash operating earn-

ings, excluding JPMorgan Partners, were

$6.2 billion in 2000, an increase of 4%

from 1999. Diluted cash operating earn-

ings per share increased 6%, when com-

pared with 1999.
Segment results
Investment Bank cash operating earnings

of $3.49 billion for 2000 were up 3%

when compared with 1999. Revenue

growth was driven by higher investment

banking fees, trading-related revenue

and fees and commissions attributable to
the acquisitions of Flemings, H&Q, and
Beacon. These acquisitions contributed

to the advisory and securities underwrit-
ing business, in particular, within the

media, telecommunications, healthcare

and technology-related industries. Also

an effect of the acquisitions was the sig-

nificant increase in brokerage commis-

sions associated with the strong market

making volume. Cash operating expenses rose during
2000 primarily due to the build up of the
investment banking platform and the
inclusion of Flemings and H&Q. In addi-

tion, incentive costs increased as a result

of the growth in revenue and acquisi-

tion-related compensation commitments

to retain key executives.
Treasury & Securities Services cash operat-ing earnings in 2000 increased 28%

when compared with 1999 reflecting rev-

enue growth of 13% for the year. Broad-

based growth in Investor Services and

Institutional Trust Services revenues fueled

the growth in revenue, with only a slight

increase reflected at Treasury Services.

Expenses rose more slowly than revenues

primarily due to expense reduction efforts

at Treasury Services. Total cash operating

expense rose only 8% from 1999, and

combined with the higher rate of revenue

growth, operating margin improved sig-

nificantly from last year.
Investment Management & PrivateBanking cash operating earnings in 2000

increased 67% from 1999 due to the

acquisitions of Flemings and H&Q. IMPBÕs

revenues increased 35% from 1999 due
to the acquisitions. Pro forma for Flemings

and H&Q, revenues increased primarily

due to higher Private Banking revenues as

a result of strong commission revenues

and structuring fees during the first half
of 2000. Cash operating expenses of
$2.52 billion in 2000 rose 28% from the

prior year primarily reflecting the afore-

mentioned acquisitions. Assets under management withinInvestment Management & Private
Banking stood at $638 billion as of
December 31, 2000, up from $543 

billion at the end of 1999, primarily 
due to the acquisition of Flemings. This
excludes assets attributable to JPMorgan
ChaseÕs 45% stake in American Century.
JPMorgan Partners cash operating earn-
ings decreased by 86% when compared

with the prior year primarily as a result of

unrealized losses associated with the

downward movement in the public equity

markets in 2000. These losses were mostly

for listed companies at the NASDAQ, and

particularly those that belonged to the
telecommunications and technology sec-
tors. Many of these same investments
contributed to the significant unrealized

gains recognized in 1999. These were

partially offset by record realized gains

reflecting the sales of direct investments
in companies that JPMorgan Partners had
financed in prior years.Retail & Middle Market Financial Servicescash operating earnings rose 5% to $1.79

billion. The increase in 2000 r
eflected theimprovement in credit qualityfrom 
1999.In addition, the solid growth in deposit

volumes helped produce strong results 

at RBG and Middle Markets. Partially 
offsetting these favorable items were 

the impact of increased funding costs 

as a result of higher interest rates on 

the credit-related businesses, namely,

Cardmember Services, Home Finance and

Auto Finance, as well as the impact of a
$100 million decrease in the estimated

auto lease residual value recognized in

the first quarter of 2000. During 2000, Retail & Middle MarketFinancial Services initiated a number of
business reorganizations that included

the sale of the retail operations in Hong

Kong and Panama.64JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
managementÕs report on responsibility for financial reporting
and report of independent accountants  
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
To our stockholders:The management of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. has the r
esponsibilityfor preparing the accompanying consolidated financial statements

and for their integrity and objectivity. The statements were prepared

in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the

United States of America. The consolidated financial statementsinclude amounts that are based on 
managementÕs 
best estimatesand judgments. Management also prepared the other information

in the Annual Report and is responsible for its accuracy and con-

sistency with the consolidated financial statements.Management maintains a comprehensive system of internal 
control to assure the proper authorization of transactions, the

safeguarding of assets and the reliability of the financial records.

The system of internal control provides for appropriate division of

responsibility and is documented by written policies and procedures
that are communicated to employees. J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

maintains a strong internal auditing program that independently

assesses the effectiveness of the system of internal control and

recommends possible improvements. Management believes that
as of December 31, 2001, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. maintained

an effective system of internal control.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors reviews the systems
of internal control and financial reporting. The Committee, which

is comprised of directors who are independent from J.P. Morgan

Chase & Co., meets and consults regularly with management, the

internal auditors and the independent accountants to review the

scope and results of their work.
The accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has performed an independent audit of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.Õs

financial statements. Management has made available to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP all of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.Õs

financial records and related data, as well as the minutes of stock-

holdersÕ and directorsÕ meetings. Furthermore, management believes

that all representations made to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

during its audit were valid and appropriate. The accounting firmÕs
report appears below.
To the Board of Directors and stockholders of 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.: 
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, of changes

in stockholdersÕ equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all

material r
espects, the financial position of J.P. Morgan Chase &
Co. and its subsidiaries at December31, 2001 and 2000, and

the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of

the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001, in 

conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. These financial statements are the

responsibility of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.Õs management; our res-
ponsibilityis 
to express an opinion on these financial statements
based on our audits. We 
conducted our audits of these state-ments in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in
the United States of America, which require that we plan and
performthe audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whetherthe financial statements are free of material misstatement. An

audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing

the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement pres-

entation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis

for our opinion.January 15, 2002PRICEWATERHOUSE
COOPERSLLP¥ 1177 A
VENUEOFTHE
AMERICAS¥ NEWYORK,NY 10036William B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Marc J. Shapiro
Vice Chairman Finance, Risk Management and AdministrationDina DublonExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
January 15, 2002consolidated statement of incomeJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200120001999
RevenueInvestment banking fees$3,612$4,362$3,517
Trading revenue4,9186,2985,252
Fees and commissions9,2089,2297,876
Private equity Ð realized gains
6512,0511,690
Private equity Ð unrealized gains (losses)
(1,884)(1,036)1,457
Securities gains (losses)866229(192)
Other revenue8772,2891,045
Total noninterest revenue18,24823,42220,645
Interest income32,18136,64331,207
Interest expense21,37927,13120,922
Net interest income10,8029,51210,285
Revenue before provision for loan losses 
29,05032,93430,930
Provision for loan losses3,1851,3771,446
Total net revenue25,86531,55729,484
ExpenseCompensation expense11,94412,74810,534
Occupancy expense1,3481,2941,190
Technology and communications expense
2,6312,4542,179
Merger and restructuring costs
2,5231,43123
Amortization of intangibles
729528329
Other expense4,1244,3693,740
Total noninterest expense23,29922,82417,995
Income before income tax expense and effect of accounting change2,566
8,73311,489
Income tax expense8473,0063,988
Income before effect of accounting change1,719
5,7277,501
Net effect of change in accounting principle
(25)ÑÑNet income$1,694
$5,727$7,501
Net income applicable to common stock$1,628
$5,631$7,395
Net income per common share
(a)Basic$0.83$2.99$3.87
Diluted0.802.863.69
(a)Basic and diluted earnings per share have been reduced by $0.01 in 2001 due to the impact of the adoption of SFAS 133 relati
ng to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging
activities.
The Notes to Consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
6566JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
consolidated balance sheetJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
December 31,(in millions,except share data)
20012000AssetsCash and due from banks
$22,600$23,972Deposits with banks
12,7438,333Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
63,72769,474Securities borrowed36,58032,371Trading assets:Debt and equity instruments (including assets pledged of $48,570 in 2001 and $53,592 in 2000)118,248139,249Derivative receivables
71,15776,373Securities:Available-for-sale (including assets pledged of $30,178 in 2001 and $28,713 in 2000)
59,28473,106Held-to-maturity (fair value:$490 in 2001 and $593 in 2000)
476589Loans (net of allowance for loan losses of $4,524 in 2001 and $3,665 in 2000)
212,920212,385Private equity investments
9,19711,428Accrued interest and accounts receivable
14,79920,618Premises and equipment6,2927,087Goodwill and other intangibles:Mortgage servicing rights6,5796,362Purchased credit card relationships  519596Goodwill and other8,2498,875Other assets50,20524,530Total assets$693,575$715,348LiabilitiesDeposits:Domestic:Noninterest-bearing$69,364$55,933Interest-bearing105,05889,370Foreign:Noninterest-bearing7,6106,780Interest-bearing111,618127,282Total deposits293,650279,365Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
128,445131,738Commercial paper18,51024,851Other borrowed funds10,83519,840Trading liabilities:Debt and equity instruments
52,98852,157Derivative payables
56,06376,517Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities (including the 
allowance for credit losses of $282 in 2001 and $283 in 2000)
47,81340,754Long-term debt39,18343,299Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the FirmÕs junior
subordinated deferrable interest debentures
4,4393,939Total liabilities651,926672,460Commitments and contingencies (see Note 23)Preferred stock of subsidiary550
550StockholdersÕ equity
Preferred stock1,0091,520Common stock (authorized 4,500,000,000 shares,
issued 1,996,929,012 shares in 2001 and 1,940,109,081 shares in 2000)1,9971,940Capital surplus
12,49511,598Retained earnings26,99328,096Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)(442)(241)Treasury stock,at cost (23,545,702 shares in 2001 and 11,618,856 shares in 2000)
(953)(575)Total stockholdersÕ equity
41,09942,338Total liabilities,preferred stock of subsidiary and stockholdersÕ equity
$693,575$715,348The Notes to Consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
consolidated statement of changes in stockholdersÕ equityJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200120001999
Preferred stock
Balance at beginning of year$1,520$1,622$1,722
Redemption of stock
(450)(100)(100)
Retirement of treasury stockÑ(2)Ñ
Purchase of treasury stock(61)ÑÑBalance at end of year1,0091,5201,622
Common stockBalance at beginning of year1,9401,6251,625
Issuance of common stock for a three-for-two stock split
Ñ441Ñ
Issuance of common stock
55ÑÑIssuance of common stock for purchase accounting acquisitions2ÑÑRetirement of treasury stockÑ(126)Ñ
Balance at end of year1,9971,9401,625
Capital surplusBalance at beginning of year11,59812,72412,307
Issuance of common stock and options for purchase accounting acquisitions79136215
Retirement of treasury stockÑ(237)Ñ
Issuance of common stock for a three-for-two stock split
Ñ(441)Ñ
Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock foremployee stock-based awards and related tax effects
818(584)202
Balance at end of year12,49511,59812,724
Retained earningsBalance at beginning of year28,09628,45523,158
Net income1,6945,7277,501
Retirement of treasury stockÑ(3,636)Ñ
Cash dividends declared:Preferred stock (66)(96)(106)
Common stock ($1.36,$1.28and $1.08 per share)
(2,731)(2,354)(2,098)
Balance at end of year26,99328,09628,455
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Balance at beginning of year(241)(1,428)493
Other comprehensive income (loss)(201)1,187(1,921)
Balance at end of year(442)(241)(1,428)
Treasury stock,at cost
Balance at beginning of year(575)(7,942)(4,206)
Retirement of treasury stockÑ4,001Ñ
Purchase of treasury stock(871)(2,950)(6,493)
Reissuance of treasury stock4932,9012,545
Reissuance of treasury stock for purchase accounting acquisitions
Ñ3,415212
Balance at end of year (953)(575)(7,942)
Total stockholdersÕ equity
$41,099$42,338$35,056
Comprehensive income
Net income$1,694$5,727$7,501
Other comprehensive income (loss)(201)1,187(1,921)
Comprehensive income$1,493$6,914$5,580
The Notes to Consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
6768JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
consolidated statement of cash flowsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Operating activities
Net income$1,694$5,727$7,501
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by 
Operating activities:
Provision for loan losses3,1851,3771,446
Merger and restructuring costs
2,5231,43123
Depreciation and amortization2,8912,5451,945
Private equity unrealized losses (gains) and write-offs
1,8841,036(1,457)
Net change in:Trading-related assets26,217(34,761)(8,721)
Securities borrowed(4,209)3,157(3,926)
Accrued interest and accounts receivable
5,819(64)(2,627)
Other assets(26,756)(4,110)(6,797)
Trading-related liabilities(20,143)9,6849,823
Accounts payable and other liabilities
4,3083,978627
Other,net
(520)(3,676)2,213
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities
(3,107)(13,676)50
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banks
(4,410)22,088(20,843)
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
5,747(10,493)(9,493)
Loans due to sales and securitizations
69,57533,06240,913
Other loans,net
(72,149)(47,672)(43,843)
Other,net
3,431(2,210)(5,039)
Held-to-maturity securities:Proceeds 
113415799
Purchases(2)(114)(21)
Available-for-sale securities:Proceeds from maturities
7,9809,39316,821
Proceeds from sales186,434104,322118,538
Purchases(182,920)(109,051)(115,423)
Cash used in acquisitions
(1,677)(2,195)(3,142)
Proceeds from divestitures of nonstrategic businesses and assets
1961,469235
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
12,318(986)(20,498)
Financing activitiesNet change in:Domestic deposits29,11910,596(7,686)
Foreign deposits(14,834)(18,295)27,203
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
(3,293)21,8974,708
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds
(15,346)8,925687
Other,net
(91)(436)3,059
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and capital securities
8,98614,86110,386
Repayments of long-term debt
(12,574)(14,442)(11,565)
Proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
1,4292,2782,755
Redemption of preferred stock(511)(100)(100)
Treasury stock purchased(871)(2,950)(6,493)
Cash dividends paid(2,697)(2,282)(2,133)
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
(10,683)20,05220,821
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks
100(110)48
Net (decrease)increase in cash and due from banks
(1,372)5,280421
Cash and due from banks at the beginning of the year23,97218,69218,271
Cash and due from banks at the end of the year
$22,600$23,972$18,692
Cash interest paid$22,987$27,217$19,880
Taxes paid$479$3,396$1,891
The Notes to Consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
691Basis of presentation
ConsolidationOn December 31, 2000, J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated 
(ÒJ.P. 
MorganÓ) merged with and into The Chase ManhattanCorporation (ÒChaseÓ). Upon consummation of the merger,
Chase changed its name to J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 

(ÒJPMorgan ChaseÓ or Òthe FirmÓ). The merger was accounted
for as a pooling of interests 
and, accordingly, the information
included in the financial statementsand consolidated notes ofJPMorgan Chase reflects the combined results of Chase and 

J.P. Morgan as if the merger had been in effect for all periods

presented. In addition, certain amounts have been reclassified 

to conform to the current presentation. 
JPMorgan Chase is a financial holding company for a group of
subsidiaries that provide a wide range of services to a global

client base that includes corporations, governments, institutions

and individuals. For a discussion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs business

segment information, see Note 29.The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase
and its subsidiaries conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles and prevailing industry practices. Additionally, where

applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting

guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts ofJPMorgan Chase and its majority-owned subsidiaries after elimi-
nating intercompany
balances and transactions.Investments in companies in which JPMorgan Chase has significantinfluence over operating and financing decisions (generally defined
as owning a voting or economic interest of 20% to 50%) are

accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting.

These investments are generally included in Other assets and the

FirmÕs share of income or loss is included in Other revenue.
Assets held in an agency or fiduciary capacity by JPMorgan Chaseare not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included in the

Consolidated balance sheet.Special-purpose entities(The terms special-purpose entity (ÒSPEÓ) and special-purposevehicle(ÒSPVÓ) are used interchangeably in practice.)
Special-purpose entities are an important part of the financialmarkets, providing market liquidity by facilitating investorsÕ

access to specific 
portfolios of assets and risks. SPEs are typically
set up for a single, discrete purpose. SPEs are not operating 

entities and usually have no employees and a limited life. The
basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE.

The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities

to investors. The legal documents that govern the SPE transaction

describe how the cash earned on the assets held in the SPE must

be allocated to the investors and other parties that have rights to
these cash flows.SPEs can be structured to be bankruptcy remote, thereby insulating
investors from the impact of the creditors of other entities,

including the seller of the assets. They are critical to the func-

tioningof 
several significant investor markets, including, forexample, the mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities
and commercial paper markets.
Where JPMorgan Chase is a transferor of assets to an SPE, the
assets sold to the SPE are derecognized and the SPE is not 

consolidated on the balance sheet when the assets are legally

isolated from the FirmÕs creditors and the SPE is a qualifying 

special-purpose entity (ÒQSPEÓ). SFAS 140, Accounting for
Transfersand 
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishmentsof Liabilities, provides specific criteria for determining when an

SPE meets the definition of 
a QSPE. When an SPE does notmeet the formal definition of a QSPE, the decision whether ornot to consolidate depends on the applicable accounting principles
for non-QSPEs, including a determination regarding the nature

and amount of investment made by third parties to the SPE.

Consideration is given to, for example, whether a third party has

made a substantive equity investment in the SPE; which party
has voting rights, if any; who 
makes decisions about the assets
in the SPE; and who is at risk for loss. The SPE is consolidated if
JPMorgan Chase retains or acquires control over the risks and

rewards of the assets in the SPE.
JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories
of transactions: securitizations, conduits, and client intermediation.
As part of JPMorgan ChaseÕs securitization activity, consumer 

or commercial loans are sold to an SPE from the FirmÕs balance

sheet (see Note 9, Loan securitizations). Consumer securitizations
involve the sale of consumer receivables originated primarily in

the FirmÕs residential mortgage, credit card, and auto loan busi-

nesses; for commercial securitizations, the Firm securitizes both

Firm-originated and purchased commercial mortgages to facilitate 

the issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities to

investors. Assets sold to the SPEs as part of the securitization
process are not reflected in JPMorgan ChaseÕs balance sheet

(except for retained interests as described below), but are includ-

ed on the balance sheet of the SPE purchasing the assets. Assets

held by securitization-related SPEs as of December 31, 2001 

were as follows:
(in billions)Credit card receivables$25.6
Home mortgage receivables24.3

Commercial mortgage receivables19.8

Auto loans3.4
Other receivables1.4
In credit card securitizations, the Firm retains some risk of loss
with respect to the receivables held by the SPE to the extent of

its subordinated retained interest as well as its undivided interest

in the credit card master trust. This risk of loss is reflected as

ÒmanagedÓ losses in the FirmÕs discussion of operating income.

At December 31, 2001, the FirmÕs undivided interest in the credit

card master trust totaled $3.9 billion and is accounted for as set
notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
70JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
forth in Note 9. Interest-only strips of $38 million are also
retained and carried on the FirmÕs balance sheet at fair value. In
home mortgage securitizations and in auto securitizations,
JPMorgan Chase retains an interest-only strip (equal to $1.0 billion

and $0.1 billion, respectively), which reflects first loss risk and is

carried on the FirmÕs balance sheet at fair value. In commercial

mortgage securitizations, JPMorgan Chase retains a subordinated

interest (equal to $10 million), which is 
also carried at fair value.With respect to securitization transactions
involving other Firmassets, the Firm holds retained interests ($56 million, which are
fully hedged), and may be obligated to fund an additional $31.8million of senior notes. JPMorgan Chase does not provide any
other liquiditycommitments to the SPEs utilized in its 
commercial
or consumer securitization business. All amounts above are as of

December 31, 2001.For conduit transactions, JPMorgan Chase serves as the adminis-trator and provides contingency liquidity support for several

commercial paper conduits. Conduits provide clients with a way
to access liquidity in the commercial paper markets by allowing

clients to sell assets to the conduit, which then issues commercial

paper to fund the purchases. Issuance of commercial paper by

conduits aggregated $20.2 billion at December 31, 2001. The

commercial paper issued by the 
conduits is supported with sufficient
asset collateral, other credit 
enhancement, and liquiditysupport to
receive at least an A-1 or P-1 rating. JPMorgan Chase Bank hascommitments to provide liquidity to these conduits up to $26.2

billionof 
commercial paper issuances. JPMorgan Chase applies
the same underwriting standards in making liquidity commitments

to the conduits as the Firm would with other extensions of credit.
As a financial intermediary, JPMorgan Chase is involved in struc-
turing SPE transactions to meet investor and client needs. In this
capacity, JPMorgan Chase has created structured commercial loan

vehicles managed by third parties in which loans are pur
chasedfrom third parties or through the FirmÕs syndication and trading

functions.Investors in these vehicles provide cash collateral and
have a first risk of loss up to the amount of collateral committed.
JPMorgan Chase retains a second risk of loss or has the option to

sell loans from the vehicles if assets deteriorate below specified

levels. Issuance of commercial paper by these vehicles as of

December 31, 2001 was $9.1 billion. JPMorgan Chase Bank has
a commitment to provide liquidity to these vehicles for up to$12.0 billion of commercialpaper issuances.
As a financial intermediary, JPMorgan Chase also structures SPEs
to modify the cash flows of third-party assets to create investments

with specific risk profiles, or to assist clients in the efficient man-

agement of other risks. JPMorgan Chase may enter into deriva-
tive contracts with these SPEs to accomplish these ends. These
derivative contracts are captured on the 
FirmÕs balance sheet in
Trading assets or Trading liabilities 
in the s
ame manner asother
derivative contracts and are marked-to-market through Trading

revenue. Fees received from any administrative functions related
to SPEs (underwriter, trustee, custodian, etc.) are included when

earned in Fees and commissions. Note 4 provides details on

JPMorgan ChaseÕs Noninterest revenue.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs maximum liquidity commitment to the struc-
tured commercial loan vehicles, the commercial paper conduits

and to other client transactions ($3.7 billion) totaled $41.9 billion
at December 31, 2001. These commitments are included in the

FirmÕs total of $248 billion in commitments to lend described in

more detail in Note 25 and the Liquidity discussion on page 60

of the MD&A. The Firm would be required to fund these commit-

ments in the event the commercial paper market were unavailable
to these vehicles. In addition, if JPMorgan Chase Bankwere

downgraded below A-1 or P-1, the SPEs could draw on the
commitments since asset-backed commercial paper rated below
A-1 or P-1 would generally not be issuable by the vehicle. Under
these circumstances, 
JPMorgan Chase Bankwould have theoption to replace 
itself as liquidity provider or the assets in the
SPE could be sold or refinanced in other markets. In no circum-

stances is the Firm committed to issue its own stock to support
an SPE transaction.As noted above, all transactions and retained interests between
the Firm and the SPEs are reflected in JPMorgan ChaseÕs balance

sheet or Notes to the financial statements. Internal economic

capital is held against all residual exposures, derivative transactions

and lending commitments, as appropriate. The FirmÕs policies

require that transactions with SPEs be conducted at armsÕ length
and reflect market pricing. Consistent with this policy, no

JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in the SPEs 
with which JPMorgan Chase are involved.
Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated 
financial statementsThe preparation of consolidated financial statements requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect

reported revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities, and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could be different

from these estimates.
Foreign currency translation
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
translated into U.S. dollars using applicable rates of exchange.
JPMorgan Chase translates revenues and expenses using

exchange rates at the transaction date. Gains and losses from translating the financial statements of a
foreign operation where the functional currency is not the U.S.
dollar are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income

(loss) within StockholdersÕ equity. For foreign operations where

the functional currency is the U.S. 
dollar, which include operations
in highly inflationary environments,
transaction gains and losses are
reported in the Consolidated statement of income.Statement of cash flowsFor JPMorgan ChaseÕs Consolidated statement of cash flows,
cash and cash equivalents is defined as those amounts included
in Cash and due from banks. 
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
7123Significant accounting policiesThe following table identifies JPMorgan ChaseÕs significant
accounting policies and the Note and page where a detailed

description of each policy can be found:Trading assets and liabilities,including derivativesNote 3Page 71
Fee revenueNote 4Page 72
SecuritiesNote 7Page 74

Resale and repurchase agreementsNote 7Page 75

Securities borrowed and lentNote 7Page 75

LoansNote 8Page 75

Allowance for credit lossesNote 8Page 76

Loan securitizationsNote 9 Page 77

Mortgage servicing rightsNote 10Page 79

Income taxesNote 17Page 84

Premises and equipmentNote 22Page 89

Goodwill and other intangiblesNote 22Page 89

Derivatives used for nontrading purposesNote 24Page 90

Fair value of financial instrumentsNote 27Page 92
Private equity investmentsNote 27Page 94
Business changes and developments Merger with J.P. Morgan on December 31, 2000
Under the terms of the merger agreement, 617 million shares of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock were issued in exchange for

all of the outstanding shares of J.P. MorganÕs common stock
(based on an exchange ratio of 3.7 shares of JPMorgan ChaseÕs

common stock for each share of J.P. MorganÕs common stock).

All of J.P. MorganÕs series of preferred stock were exchanged 

on a one-for-one basis for a corresponding series of JPMorgan

ChaseÕs preferred stock having substantially the same terms.
Acquisition of the mortgage business of Advanta Corp.In the first quarter of 2001, Chase Manhattan MortgageCorporation, an indirect subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase, acquired

all of the mortgage business of Advanta Corp. The acquisition
included AdvantaÕs origination capability, loan servicing and sub-

servicing portfolio, and related securitization residual interests.
Sale of Hong Kong retail banking business
During the fourth quarter of 2000, Chase completed the sale of its Hong Kong-based retail banking business, including Chase

Manhattan Card Company Limited, to Standard Chartered PLC

for $1.3 billion in cash. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of

$827 million ($537 million after-tax).
Transfer of Euroclear-related business
On December 31, 2000, J.P. Morgan and the Boards of Euroclear
Clearance System PLC and Euroclear Clearance System Soci”t”

Cooperative consummated their agreement and created a

European-
based bank in Brussels, known as Euroclear Bank,
which assumed the operations of the Euroclear System from 
J.P. Morgan. The transfer resulted in a gain of $399 million
($267 million after-tax) in 2000, 
which reflected the impact of the
minimum proceeds to be receivedfr
om the Euroclear Bank over the
next two years. In addition, underthe agreement, the Firm could
receive additional proceeds of up to $100 million per year for
each of 2001 and 2002 based on the financial performance of
the Euroclear Bank during those periods. The Firm received $16

million of additional proceeds in 2001.
Sale of ChaseMellon shareholder services
On October 16, 2000, Chase agreed to sell its interest in
ChaseMellonShar
eholder Services, then a 50-50 joint venture
between Chase and Mellon Financial Corporation. The sale was
completed during November 2000 and did not have a material
impact on JPMorgan ChaseÕs earnings.
Acquisition of FlemingsOn August 1, 2000, Chase acquired Robert Fleming Holdings
Limited (ÒFlemingsÓ). The consideration issued to FlemingsÕshareholders consisted of £2.6 billion 
in cash and notes and 65.3million shares of Chase common stock. Chase also established

retention arrangements for key Flemings employees that aggre-
gated approximately $220 million (after-tax) and are generally

being expensed over the two years following the acquisition. 
The transaction was accounted for under the purchase method.
Acquisition of BeaconChase acquired The Beacon Group, LLC (ÒBeaconÓ), a privately
held investment banking firm, on July 6, 2000. The acquisition
was accounted for under the purchase method.
Acquisition of Hambrecht & Quist 
Chase acquired Hambrecht & Quist (ÒH&QÓ) for $1.46 billion on
December 9, 1999. The acquisition was accounted for under the
purchase method. 
Trading activitiesTrading assets include debt and equity securities held for tradingpurposes that JPMorgan Chase owns (ÒlongÓ positions). Trading

liabilities include debt and equity securities that JPMorgan Chase
has sold to other parties but does not own. These securities are

ÒshortÓ positions, and JPMorgan Chase is obligated to purchase

these securities at a future date. Also included in Trading liabilities

are structured notes that JPMorgan Chase transacts as part 

of its trading activity. Trading positions, as well as derivatives

used for trading purposes, are carried at fair value on the

Consolidated balance sheet, with changes in the fair value
recorded in Trading revenue. Trading positions are recorded on 
a trade date basis. The reported receivables (unrealized gains)

and payables (unrealized losses) related to derivatives include 

the effect of master netting agreements as permitted under

FASB Interpretation No. 39.
notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
72JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
4Trading revenue
The following table sets forth the components of total trading-related revenue:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Product diversification:Equities(a)$1,541$1,762$1,194
Fixed income and other(b)3,3774,5364,058
Trading revenue(c)$4,918$6,298$5,252
Net interest income (ÒNIIÓ)impact
(d)1,3618441,556
Total trading-related revenue
$6,279$7,142$6,808
(a)Includes trading equity securities and equity derivatives.
(b)Includes bonds and commercial paper,various types of interest rate derivatives,as well
as foreign exchange and commodities.Also includes trading gains or losses on certain

assets received as part of troubled debt restructurings.
(c) Derivative and foreign exchange contracts are marked-to-market,and valuation adjust-
ments are included in Trading-related revenue.
(d)Includes NII associated with trading activities,which includes interest recognized on
interest-earning and interest-bearing trading-related positions,as well as management

allocations reflecting the funding costs or benefits associated with trading positions.

These amounts are included in NII on the Consolidated statement of income.Amounts
have been restated in the prior periods to conform to the current presentation.Trading assets and liabilitiesThe following table presents the fair value of Trading assets and
Trading liabilities for the dates indicated:December 31,(in millions)
20012000Trading assetsDebt and equity instruments:U.S.government,federal agencies and
municipal securities$41,666$43,251Certificates of deposit,bankersÕ acceptances
and commercial paper8,4927,258Debt securities issued by foreign governments22,46541,631Corporate securities and other
45,62547,109Total trading assets Ð debt and equity instruments
$118,248$139,249Derivative receivables:
Interest rate contracts
$44,732$41,124Foreign exchange contracts
9,81515,484Debt,equity,commodity and other contracts
16,61019,765Total trading assets Ð derivative receivables
$71,157$76,373Trading liabilitiesTotal trading liabilities Ð debt and equity instruments
(a)$52,988$52,157Derivative payables:
Interest rate contracts
$33,066$42,313Foreign exchange contracts
9,41015,853Debt,equity,commodity and other contracts
13,58718,351Total trading liabilities Ð derivative payables
$56,063$76,517Note:Amounts have been restated to conform to the current presentation.
(a)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Debt and equity instruments pledged as collateral that can besold or repledged by the secured party amounted to $48.6 billion

and $53.6 billion at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. 
Average Trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the
periods indicated:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20012000Trading assets Ð debt and equity instruments$145,364$122,063Trading assets Ð derivative receivables
$78,461$70,727Trading liabilities Ð debt and equity instruments(a)$53,976$53,946Trading liabilities Ð derivative payables
$69,676$66,573Note:Amounts have been restated to conform to the current presentation.
(a)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Noninterest revenue
Investment banking feesInvestment banking fees include advisory, equity and debt under-
writing and other fees. Advisory fees are recognized as revenue

when the related services are performed. Underwriting fees are

presented net of syndicate expenses. In addition, JPMorgan

Chase recognizes credit 
arrangement and syndication fees as revenue after satisfying certain retention, timing and yield criteria.
The following table presents the components of investment
banking fees:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Advisory$1,248$1,739$1,091
Underwriting and other fees
2,3642,6232,426
Total $3,612$4,362$3,517
Note:Amounts have been restated to conform to the current presentation.
Fees and commissionsFees and commissions primarily include fees from investment
management, custody and processing services, deposit accounts,

brokerage services, mortgage servicing, loan commitments,

standby letters of credit, compensating balances, insurance

products and other financial service-related products. All of these
fees are generally recognized over the period that the related

service is provided. Also included are credit card revenues which

primarily include interchange income, late fees, cash advance,

and annual and overlimit fees, as well as servicing fees earned in

connection with securitization activities. Credit card revenues are

generally recognized as billed, except for annual fees, which are

recognized over a 12-month period.5Interest income and interest expense 
Details of interest income and expense were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Interest income
Loans$15,544$17,243$14,783
Securities3,6474,4224,804
Trading assets7,3907,1605,432
Federal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements3,8054,7513,305
Securities borrowed1,3432,2941,877
Deposits with banks4527731,006
Total interest income$32,181$36,643$31,207
Interest expense
Deposits$7,998$10,835$8,845
Short-term and other liabilities11,09813,1059,323
Long-term debt2,2833,1912,754
Total interest expense$21,379$27,131$20,922
Net interest income$10,802$9,512$10,285
Provision for loan losses3,1851,3771,446
Net interest income afterprovision for loan losses$7,617$8,135$8,839
6Details of Fees and commissions were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Investment management,custody and
processing services$3,774$3,628$2,868
Credit card revenue
2,1081,7711,698
Brokerage and investment services
1,2441,228768
Mortgage servicing fees,net of amortization
and write-downs(230)441405
Other lending-related service fees495590656
Deposit service fees1,023906895
Other fees794665586
Total fees and commissions
$9,208$9,229$7,876
Other revenue
Details of Other revenue were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Other revenue
Gains on sales of nonstrategic assets
$Ñ$1,307$166
Residential mortgage origination/sales activities552194323
Loss on economic hedge of the Flemings purchase price
Ñ(176)Ñ
All Other revenue
325964556
Total Other revenue$877$2,289$1,045
Noninterest expense
Merger and restructuring costs
The following table shows the components of these costs during2001 and 2000:(in millions)20012000Merger and restructuring costs
Merger,right-sizing,and other restructuring costs
$2,322$1,323Relocation costs201108Total merger and restructuring costs$2,523$1,431The following table shows the utilization of the $1.25 billionmerger liability during 2001 and 2000: (in millions)20012000Merger liability
Liability balance at January 1
$917$ÑMerger charge
Ñ1,250Liability utilized during year(763)(333)Liability balance at December 31$154(a)$917(a)The remaining balance consists primarily of facilities costs.
Management initially estimated that the Firm would incur one-time costs of $3.2 billion in connection with the merger of 
J.P. Morgan and Chase. These costs consisted of a $1.25 billion

merger charge that was recorded on the December 31, 2000

merger date and $1.95 billion of other costs to be incurred in

2001 and 2002 that were not accruable under existing account-

ing pronouncements. 
In September 2001, management estimated that $650 million ofadditional nonaccruable merger costs would be incurred in 2001

and 2002. These costs consisted primarily of systems integration
costs, facilities costs and retention payments. In September 2001,

management estimated that the Firm would also incur one-time
costs of $400 million in connection with the right-sizing of
employee levels of certain businesses (2,000 employee reductions)

beyond that planned at the time of the merger. These severance

costs consisted of a $300 million charge that was recorded on

September 30, 2001 and $100 million of costs to be incurred in

2001 and 2002 that were not accruable under existing accounting

pronouncements. In 2001, $259 million of the right-sizing liability

was utilized resulting in a remaining balance of $41 million at

December 31, 2001.In connection with several strategic restructuring initiatives in the
fourth quarter of 1999, JPMorgan Chase incurred a charge of

$175 million for planned consolidation actions in certain busi-
nesses, planned staff reductions, and the disposition of premises

and equipment resulting from the relocation of several businesses

to Florida, Texas and Massachusetts. At December 31, 2001, the

related restructuring liability was fully utilized. Additionally, in
December 1999, $152 million of costs were reversed, primarily

relating to occupancy costs not fully utilized under a restructuring
charge incurred in 1998. 
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
73notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
74JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
20012000(d)GrossGrossGrossGross
AmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFairAmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFair
December 31,(in millions) costgainslossesvaluecostgainslossesvalue
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency/corporation obligations:
Mortgage-backed securities
$30,192$115$417$29,890
$38,107$26$965$37,168
Collateralized mortgage obligations
2,29591892,297
5,1309385,215
U.S.treasuries9,987731579,903
16,25030926516,294
Obligations of state and political subdivisions2,42986152,500
8969524967
Debt securities issued by foreign governments11,636652411,677
10,749762510,800
Corporate debt securities
108351142
1,0805131,072
Equity securities1,102491,097
1,111240281,323
Other,primarily asset-backed securities
(a)1,7853101,778
2433814267
Total Available-for-sale securities
(b)$59,534$472$722$59,284
$73,566$882$1,342$73,106
Held-to-maturity securitiesTotal Held-to-maturity securities(b)(c)$476$14$Ñ$490
$589$4$Ñ$593
(a)Includes CMOs of private issuers,which generally have underlying collateral consisting of obligations of U.S.government and 
federal agencies and corporations.
(b)As of December 31,2001,there were no securities of a single issuer,excluding the U.S.Treasury and U.S.government agencies,wh
ose fair value exceeded 10% of JPMorgan ChaseÕs
StockholdersÕ equity.
(c)Primarily mortgage-backed securities.

(d)Includes the impact of related derivatives.Prior to adoption of SFAS 133,related hedges were carried at fair value and unrea
lized gains and losses were recorded in Accumulated other com-
prehensive income (loss).7Other expenseDetails of Other expense were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Other expenseProfessional services$1,139$1,203$1,012
Outside services669648584
Marketing
601595503
Travel and entertainment453490350
All other(a)1,2621,4331,291
Total Other expense$4,124$4,369$3,740
(a)Includes a $100 million special contribution to The Chase Manhattan Foundation in 1999.
SecuritiesSecurities are classified as Available-for-sale (ÒAFSÓ), Held-
to-maturity (ÒHTMÓ), or trading. Securities are classified as AFS

when, in managementÕs judgment, they may be sold in response

to or in anticipation of changes in market conditions. AFS securities
are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheet.

Unrealized gains and losses after application of hedge accounting

are reported net as increases or decreases to Accumulated other

comprehensive income (loss). The specific identification method

is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS securities,
which are included in Securities gains (losses) on the Consolidated

statement of income. Securities that JPMorgan Chase has thepositive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as 
HTM and are carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated 

balance sheet. The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS
securities:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20012000(a)1999(a)Realized gains$1,438$727$555
Realized losses(572)(498)(747)
Net realized gains (losses)$866$229$(192)
(a)Includes the impact of related derivatives.
AFS securities pledged as collateral that can be sold or repledged 
by the secured party amounted to $30.2 billion and $28.7 billion 

at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
In the calculation of effective yield for mortgage-backed securities
(ÒMBSÓ) and collateralized mortgage obligations (ÒCMOÓ),
JPMorgan Chase actively monitors the likelihood of prepayment 

of principal through its portfolio management function. Manage-

ment regularly performs simulation testing to determine the 

impact that market conditions would have on its MBS and CMO
portfolios. MBSs and CMOs that management believes have high
prepayment risk are included in the AFS portfolio and reported at

fair value. The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and HTM securities were as follows for the dates indicated:
thereafter are applied to reduce the carrying value of the loan.
Loans are restored to accrual status only when interest and 

principal payments are brought current and future payments 

are reasonably assured.
Consumer loans are generally charged to the allowance for loan
losses upon reaching specified stages of delinquency in accordance

with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination CouncilÕs

(ÒFFIECÓ) policy. For example, credit card loans are charged off at

the earlier of 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving

notification of the filing of bankruptcy. Residential mortgage

products are generally charged off to net realizable 
value at 180days past due. Other consumer products are generally
charged off (to net realizable value if collateralized) at 120 days past due.

Accrued interest on residential mortgage products, auto financ-

ings and certain other consumer loans are accounted for in

accordance with the nonaccrual loan policy discussed above.

Accrued interest on all other loans is generally reversed against

interest income when the consumer loan is charged off.
A collateralized loan is considered an in-substance foreclosure
and is reclassified to assets acquired as loan satisfactions, within

Other assets, only when JPMorgan Chase has taken physical

possession of the collateral, regardless of whether formal foreclo-
sure proceedings have taken place.
The following table presents the amortized cost, estimated fair value and average yield at December 31, 2001 of JPMorgan ChaseÕ
s AFSand HTM securities by contractual maturity range:Available-for-sale securitiesHeld-to-maturity securities
Maturity schedule of securitiesAmortizedFairAverageAmortizedFairAverage
December 31,2001 (in millions)costvalueyield
(a)costvalueyield
(a)Due in one year or less$5,961$6,0345.85%$33$334.56%
Due after one year through five years
14,65314,7615.75ÑÑÑ
Due after five years through 10 years4,6284,5905.16337.03
Due after 10 years(b)34,29233,8995.854404546.86
Total securities$59,534$59,2845.77%$476$4906.71%
(a)The average yield is based on amortized cost balances at year-end.Yields are derived by dividing interest income (including 
the effect of related derivatives on AFS securities and the 
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts) by total amortized cost.Taxable-equivalent yields are used where applicabl
e.(b)Securities with no stated maturity are included with securities with a contractual maturity of 10 years or more.Substantiall
y all of JPMorgan ChaseÕs MBSs and CMOs are due in 10 years or 
more based on contractual maturity.The estimated duration,which reflects anticipated future prepayments based on a consensus of
 dealers in the market,is approximately three years for 
MBSs and less than one year for CMOs.
Securities purchased under resale agreements (Òresale agree-
mentsÓ) and securities sold under repurchase agreements

(Òrepurchase agreementsÓ) are generally treated as collateralized

financing transactions and are carried on the Consolidated balance

sheet at the amounts the securities will be subsequently sold or
repurchased, plus accrued interest. Similar transactions that do
not meet the SFAS 140 definition of a repurchase agreement are

accounted for as ÒbuysÓ and ÒsellsÓ rather than financing 
transactions. Where appropriate, resale and repurchase agree-

ments with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis.

JPMorgan Chase takes possession of securities purchased under
resale agreements. On a daily basis, JPMorgan Chase monitors
the market value of the underlying collateral, which consists 
primarily of U.S. government and agency securities, and requests

additional collateral from its counterparties when necessary.
Securities borrowed and securities lent (recorded in Other 
borrowed funds) are recorded at the amount of cash collateral

advanced or received. Securities borrowed consist primarily of

government and equity securities. JPMorgan Chase monitors the

market value of the securities borrowed and lent on a daily basis

and calls for additional collateral when appropriate. Fees received

or paid are recorded in Interest income or Interest expense.
8LoansLoans are generally reported at the principal amount outstanding,

net of the allowance for loan losses, unearned income and any

net deferred loan fees (nonrefundable yield-related loan fees,

net of related direct origination 
costs). Loans held for sale are
carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value. Loans held

for trading purposes are included in Trading assets and are carried

at fair value, with the gains and losses included in Trading rev-

enue. Interest income is recognized using the interest method or

on a basis approximating a level rate of return over the term of

the loan.Nonaccrual loans are those loans on which the accrual of interest
is discontinued. Loans (other than certain consumer loans 
discussed below) are placed on nonaccrual status immediately 

if, in the opinion of management, full payment of principal or
interest is in doubt or when principal or interest is past due 90

days or more and collateral, if any, is insufficient to cover principal

and interest. Interest accrued but not collected at the date a

loan is placed on nonaccrual status is reversed against Interest

income. In addition, the amortization of net deferred 
loan feesis suspended when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status.Interest
income on nonaccrual loans is recognized only to the extent it is

received in cash. However, where there is doubt regarding the
ultimate collectibility of the loan principal, all cash receipts JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
75notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
76JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
20012000December 31,(in millions)
DomesticForeignTotal
DomesticForeignTotal
Commercial loans:
Commercial and industrial$56,680$33,530$90,210
$64,031$37,002$101,033
Commercial real estate:Commercial mortgage3,533163,549
4,1098344,943
Construction615151766
7256361,361
Financial institutions5,6083,5709,178
7,3423,97611,318
Foreign governments Ñ1,1611,161
Ñ805805
Total commercial loans66,43638,428104,864
76,20743,253119,460
Consumer loans:1-4 family residential mortgages59,43050659,936
50,30229250,594
Credit card19,387719,394
18,495618,501
Auto financings
25,6673825,705
19,8022219,824
Other consumer7,3661797,545
7,3613107,671
Total consumer loans111,850730112,580
95,96063096,590
Total loans(a)$178,286$39,158$217,444
$172,167$43,883$216,050
(a)Loans are presented net of unearned income of $1,825 million and $1,571 million at December 31,2001 and 2000,respectively.
Impaired loans
JPMorgan Chase accounts for and discloses nonaccrual commercial
loans as impaired loans. JPMorgan Chase recognizes interest

income on impaired loans as discussed previously for nonaccrual

loans. JPMorgan Chase excludes from impaired loans its small-

balance homogeneous consumer loans, loans carried at fair value
or the lower of cost or fair value, debt securities and leases. The table below sets forth information about JPMorgan ChaseÕs
impaired loans. JPMorgan Chase uses the discounted cash flow

method as its primary method for valuing its impaired loans:
The composition of the loan portfolio at each of the dates indicated was as follows:December 31,(in millions)
20012000Impaired loans with an allowance
$1,523$986Impaired loans without an allowance
(a)457444Total impaired loans$1,980$1,430Allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114
(b)$448$344Average balance of impaired loans during the year
$1,840$1,450Interest income recognized on impaired loans 
during the year
$18
$13
(a)When the discounted cash flows,collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the
carrying value of the loan,then the loan does not require an allowance under SFAS 114.
(b)The allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114 is included in JPMorgan ChaseÕs
allowance for loan losses.
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan ChaseÕs Allowance for loan losses is intended to cover
probable credit losses for which either the asset is not specifically

identified or the size of the loss has not been fully determined.
Within the allowance, there are specific and expected loss com-
ponents and a residual component. 
The specific loss component
covers those commercial loans
deemed by JPMorgan Chase to be criticized. JPMorgan Chase
internally categorizes its criticized commercial loans into three

groups: doubtful, substandard and special mention. 
Nonperforming commercial loans (excluding leases) are consid-
ered to be impaired loans. The allowance for impaired loans is

computedusing the methodology under SFAS 114. An allowance

is established when the discounted cash flows (or collateral value
or observable market price) of an impaired loan is lower than the

carrying value of that loan. For the purposes of computing the
specific loss component of the allowance, larger impaired loans

are evaluated individually, and smaller impaired loans are evaluated

as a pool using historical loss experience for the respective class

of assets. The criticized but still performing loans also are evaluated

as a pool using historical loss rates. The expected loss componentcovers performing commercial
loans (except criticized loans) and consumer loans.Expected losses are the product of default probability and loss
severity. The computation of the expected loss component of 

the allowance is based on estimates of these factors in JPMorgan
ChaseÕs credit risk capital model. These estimates are differentiated

by risk rating and maturity for commercial loans.
The expected loss estimates for each consumer loan portfolio are
based primarily on JPMorgan ChaseÕs historical loss experience for

the applicable product portfolio. 
Finally, a 
residual component
is maintained to cover uncertaintiesthat could affect managementÕs estimate of probable losses. The

residual component of the allowance reflects the margin of
imprecision inherent in the underlying assumptions used in the

methodologies for estimating specific losses and expected losses
in both the commercial and consumer portfolios. It is anticipated

that the residual component of the allowance will range between

10% and 20% of the total Allowance for loan losses.Factors affecting the uncertainty of specific loss and expected
loss estimates include the volatility of default probabilities, rating
migrations and loss severity. These uncertainties also could relate

to current macroeconomic and political conditions, the impact 

of currency devaluations on cross-border exposures, changes in

underwriting standards, unexpected correlations within the port-

folio or other factors.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs Risk Management Committee reviews, at least
quarterly, the Allowance for loan losses relative to the risk profile

of the FirmÕs credit portfolio and current economic conditions.

The allowance is adjusted based on that review if, in manage-

mentÕs judgment, changes are warranted. As of December 31,

2001, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance to be adequate
(i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that currently may exist but are

not yet identifiable).To provide for risk of losses inherent in the credit extension
process, management also computes specific and expected loss

components as well as a residual component for lending-related

commitments, using a methodology similar to that used for the
loan portfolio.JPMorgan Chase maintains an allowance for credit losses
as follows: Reported in:Allowance for credit losses on:Balance sheetIncome statement
LoansAllowance for loan 
lossesProvision for loan losses
Lending-related commitmentsOther liabilitiesOther revenue
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for loan losses:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Allowance at January 1
$3,665$3,738$4,022
Provision for loan losses 
3,1851,3771,446
Charge-offs(2,582)(1,634)(2,034)
Recoveries247234287
Net charge-offs(2,335)(1,400)(1,747)
Charge to conform to FFIEC revised policyÑ(80)Ñ
Allowance related to 
purchased portfoliosÑ2918
Foreign exchange translation adjustment
91(1)Allowance at December 31
$4,524$3,665$3,738
Loan securitizationsJPMorgan Chase securitizes, sells and services residential mort-
gage, credit card, automobile and commercial loans. Interests in

the securitized and sold loans are generally retained in the form

of senior or subordinated interest-only strips, subordinated

tranches, escrow accounts and servicing rights. JPMorgan ChaseÕs

undivided interest in its credit card master trust is recorded in and

accounted for as Loans. This undivided interest represents credit

card receivables owned by JPMorgan Chase within the master

trust that have not been sold. JPMorgan ChaseÕs interest in these

receivables rank pari-passu with the investorsÕ interests in the
master trust. Other retained interests are primarily recorded in

Other assets.JPMorgan Chase retains the servicing responsibilities for all of its
residential mortgage, credit card and automobile loan securitiza-
tions and for certain of its commercial loan securitizations and

receives annual servicing fees based on the securitized loan balance plus certain ancillary fees. JPMorgan Chase also retains

the right to service the residential mortgage loans sold as a result

of mortgage-backed security transactions with the Government

National Mortgage Association (ÒGNMAÓ), Federal National
Mortgage Association (ÒFNMAÓ) and Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation (ÒFreddie MacÓ). For a discussion of

mortgageservicing rights, see Note 10. Gains or losses on securitizations and sales depend, in part, on theprevious carrying amount of the loans involved in the transfer and

are allocated between the loans sold and the retained interests

based on their relative fair values at the date of sale. Since quoted

market prices are generally not available, JPMorgan Chase usually

estimates fair value of these retained interests by determining the

present value of future expected cash flows using modeling

techniques that incorporate managementÕs best estimates of keyvariables, including credit losses, prepayment speeds and discount

rates commensurate with the risks involved. Gains on securitiza-
tions and sales are reported in Other revenue. Retained interests

that are subject to prepayment risk such that JPMorgan Chase

may not recover substantially all of its investment are recorded

at fair value with subsequent adjustments reflected in Other

comprehensive income or in earnings if the fair value of the
retained interest has declined below its carrying amount and
such decline has 
been determined to be other-than-temporary.
During 2001, JPMorgan Chase securitized approximately $7.9
billion of residential mortgage loans, $6.0 billion of credit card
loans, $2.5 billion of automobile loans and $5.5 billion of com-
mercial loans, resulting in pre-tax gains on securitizations of 

$242 million, $42 million, $17 million and $40 million, respectively.

During 2000, JPMorgan Chase securitized approximately $2.7

billion of residential mortgage loans, $2.9 billion of credit card
loans, $1.3 billion of automobile loans and $4.7 billion of com-
mercial loans, resulting in pre-tax gains (losses) on securitizations

of $46 million, $7 million, $(1) million and $53 million, respec-

tively. In addition, JPMorgan Chase sold residential mortgage
9JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
77notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
78JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
20012000($ in millions)MortgageCredit cardAutoCommercial
MortgageCredit cardAutoCommercial
Cash flow information:Proceeds from securitizations$7,932$6,038$2,496$5,543
$2,725$2,857$1,278$4,746
Servicing fees collected12365Ñ
530Ñ1
Other cash flows received9910132
1368Ñ8
Proceeds from collections reinvested in previous revolving securitizationsÑ31,191Ñ2,164
Ñ29,844Ñ1,031
Key assumptions(rates per annum):
Annual prepayment rate
(a)8.5-34.0% CPR14.0-14.4%1.47%NA
(b)10.5-29.3% CPR12.8-13.7%1.50%NA
(b)WAC/WAM
22.5% HEPWAC/WAM
Weighted average life
2.6-8.5 years7 months
1.8 years
1.1 years
6.6-12.6 years8 months1.8 years2.1-9.7 years
Expected credit losses0.1-0.8%5.5-6.0%0.4-0.5%NA
(c)0.2-0.4%5.7-5.9%0.4%NA
(c)Discount rate
15.0-19.0%3.5-6.5%5.3-7.0%5.0%
15.0%7.2-7.8%8.5%6.9-20.4%
(a)WAC/WAM:Weighted average coupon/weighted average maturity;HEP:Home equity prepayment curve;CPR:Constant prepayment rate.
(b)Not applicable since these retained interests are not subject to prepayment risk.

(c)Not applicable due to collateral coverage on loans in commercial securitizations.
At December 31, 2001 and 2000, JPMorgan Chase had $3.9
billion and $6.7 billion, respectively, related to its undivided
interest in its credit card master trusts. JPMorgan Chase also

maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits for some

of its residential mortgage, credit card and automobile securitiza-

tionsin 
the unlikely event that deficiencies in cash flows owed toinvestors occur. The amounts available in such escrow accounts

are recorded in Other assets and totaled $1 million, $341 million

and $79 million as of December 31, 2001 for residential mort-

gage, credit card and automobile securitizations, respectively,

and $7 million, $297 million and $81 million as of December 31,
2000, respectively. In addition, the Firm had other retained 
interests as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 totaling $1.0 billion 
and $363 million from its residential mortgage, $38 million and

$2 million from its credit card, $141 million and $87 million from

its automobile securitizations, and $66 million and $138 million
from its commercial securitizations, respectively. These retained

interests are primarily subordinated or residual interests.
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions and thesensitivity of the fair value at December 31, 2001 of the remain-

ing retained interests to immediate 10% and 20% adverse

changes in those assumptions:loans totaling $45.8 billion and $21.5 billion during 2001 and2000, respectively, primarily as GNMA, FNMA and Freddie Mac 

mortgage-backed securities, which sales resulted in gains of

$262 million in 2001 and $106 million in 2000. The following table summarizes certain cash flows received from
securitization trusts for sales that were completed during 2001

and 2000 and the key economic assumptions used in measuring
the retained interests as of the dates of such sales:
($ in millions)Mortgage(c)Credit cardAutoCommercial
Carrying value / fair value of 
retained interests(d)$1,011$38$141$66
Weighted average life2.2-6.3 years5 months1.7 years9 months-11.4 years
Annual prepayment rate10.8-32.5% CPR14.5%1.94% WAC/WAMNA
(a)Impact of 10% adverse change$(35)$(9)$(6)Ñ
Impact of 20% adverse change(64)(9)(13)Ñ
Loss assumption0.1-2.5%5.9%0.50%NA
(b)Impact of 10% adverse change$(29)$(6)$(3)Ñ
Impact of 20% adverse change(58)(12)(9)Ñ
Discount rate12.9-19.0%3.4%5.9%4.0-18.7%
Impact of 10% adverse change$(27)Ñ$(1)$(2)
Impact of 20% adverse change(54)Ñ(2)(3)
(a)Not applicable since these retained interests are not subject to prepayment risk.
(b)Not applicable due to collateral coverage on loans in commercial securitizations.

(c)Includes approximately $416 million of retained interests resulting from the acquisition of AdvantaÕs mortgage operations.

(d)Unrealized gains recorded in StockholdersÕ equity that relate to these retained interests totaled $159.6 million,$5.6 millio
n and $6.8 million for residential mortgage,credit card and automobile,
respectively.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and
should be used with caution. As the figures indicate, changes in

fair value based on a 10% variation in assumptions generally
cannot easily be extrapolated because the relationship of the

change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not
be linear. Also, in this table, the effect that a change in a particular

assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without
changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor

may result in changes in another, which might magnify or coun-

teract the sensitivities.Expected static pool net credit losses include actual incurred losses
plus projected net credit losses divided by the original balance of

the outstandings comprising the securitization pool. The table
below displays the expected static pool net credit losses for 2001

and 2000 based on securitizations occurring in that year.
Loans securitized in:(a)(b)20012000MortgageAuto
MortgageAuto
December 31,2001
0.1-2.3%0.8%
0.1-2.7%(c)0.8%December 31,2000
NANA
0.1-2.3%0.7%
(a)No expected static pool net credit losses on commercial securitizations due to collateral
coverage on loans in commercial securitizations.
(b)Static pool losses not applicable to credit card securitizations due to their revolving structure.
(c)Excludes expected static pool losses associated with the acquisition of AdvantaÕs mortgage
operations.Expected static pool losses,as of December 31,2001,would be 8.24% for the

three securitization transactions completed by Advanta during 2000.
NA-Not applicable.
The table below presents information about delinquencies, net
credit losses, and components of reported and securitized finan-

cial assets at December 31, 2001: 10Mortgage servicing rightsJPMorgan Chase capitalizes the value that is expected to be real-

ized from performing specified residential mortgage servicing 

activities for others as Mortgage servicing rights (ÒMSRsÓ). Such
capitalized servicing rights are purchased or retained upon sales 

or securitization of mortgages. These rights are amortized in

proportion to, and over the period of, the estimated future net
servicing income stream of the underlying mortgage loans as a

reduction of the actual servicing income received. MSRs are 
periodically evaluated for impairment based on their current fair

values, which are estimated using a discounted future cash flow

model that considers portfolio characteristics and assumptions
regarding prepayment speeds, delinquency rates, ancillary revenues
and other economic factors. For purposes of evaluating and
measuring impairment of MSRs, the Firm stratifies its portfolio on
the basis of the predominant risk characteristics: loan type and

interest rate. Any indicated impairment is recognized as a reduction

in revenue through a valuation allowance to the extent that the

carrying value of an individual stratum exceeds its estimated fair
value. Management has used its best judgment in estimating fair
value. Since many economic factors can affect the estimate of

the fair value of MSRs, the Firm closely assesses the major
assumptions and modeling techniques used in its estimate of 
the fair value of its MSRs and reviews such assumptions against

market comparables, if available. To mitigate the effect of changes

in revenue from the interest rate risk inherent in the MSRs, the

Firm uses both interest rate derivatives and AFS securities.
The following table summarizes mortgage servicing rights activityand related amortization. It also includes the key assumptions and

the sensitivity of the fair value of MSRs at December 31, 2001to

immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in each of those
assumptions:Loans 90 days orNet
Type of loanTotal loansmore past duecharge-offs
(in millions)200120002001200020012000Mortgage$82,546$63,836$374$298$252$79
Credit card40,81136,3669287402,0381,695Auto28,95022,39812982149135Other(a)8,0967,99111584176185Consumer loans160,403130,5911,5461,2042,6152,094Commercial loans107,468124,9722,0461,551982400Total loans reported and securitized(b)267,871255,5633,5922,7553,5972,494(c)Less:Loanssecuritized
(50,427)(39,513)(575)(437)(1,262)(1,014)Reported$217,444$216,050$3,017$2,318$2,335$1,480(a)Includes foreign consumer loans.
(b)Reported and securitized basis represents loans on the balance sheet or that have been
securitized,but exclude securitized loans that JPMorgan Chase continues to service but 

as to which it has no other continuing involvement.(c)Includes a $93 million charge to conform to the FFIECÕs revised policy establishing 
uniform guidelines for charge-offs on consumer loans to delinquent,bankrupt,deceased

and fraudulent borrowers.Of this total amount,$80 million relates to reported loans,and

the remaining $13 million relates to securitized loans.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)20012000 1999Balance at beginning of year$6,362$5,187$3,039
Additions3,3942,1943,611
Sales(103)(290)(1,071)
SFAS 133 hedge valuation adjustments
(880)ÑÑPre-SFAS 133 hedging activities
Ñ78150
Amortization(1,123)(708)(542)
Valuation allowance
(1,071)(99)Ñ
Balance at end of year$6,579$6,362$5,187
Estimated fair value at year-end
$6,579$6,411$5,748
2001Weighted average prepayment speed assumption 
13.38% CPRImpact on fair value with 10% adverse change
$ (348)Impact on fair value with 20% adverse change
$ (665)Weighted average discount rate 
8.16%Impact on fair value with 10% adverse change
$ (190)Impact on fair value with 20% adverse change
$ (367)CPR:Constant prepayment rate.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
79notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
80JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and
should be used with caution. As the figures indicate, changes in

fair value based on a 10% and 20% variation in assumptions gen-
erally cannot be easily extrapolated because the relationship of the

change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not be
linear. Also, in this table, the effect that a change in a particular

assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without
changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor

may result in changes in another, which might magnify or coun-

teract the sensitivities.As of January 1, 2001, certain interest rate derivatives that qualify
as fair value hedges under SFAS 133 and the related hedged MSRs

are accounted for at fair value in accordance with SFAS 133. 
For the year ended December 31, 2001, the decrease in revenue
resulting from SFAS 133 valuation adjustments and the change in
the valuation allowance due to impairment totaled $1,951 million.
These losses were substantially offset by total gains of $1,773 mil-

lion relating to a combination of derivative gains, including those

that qualify as SFAS 133 hedges, and realized gains from sales of

AFS securities. Prior to January 1, 2001, realized gains and losses

from the settlement or termination of derivative contracts that

qualified as hedges were deferred as adjustments to the carrying

value and amortized over the remaining life of the MSRs. At

December 31, 2000 and 1999, net deferred hedge gains of $152

million and $193 million, respectively, were included as an adjust-

ment to the carrying value of the MSRs. 11Long-term debt
The following table is a summary of long-term debt (net of unamortized original issue debt discount):By remaining contractual maturity at December 31,
UnderAfter2001
2000(in millions)1 year1-5 years5 yearstotal
totalParent companySenior debt:Fixed rate
$979$4,897$803$6,679
$6,683Variable rate
6,5134,57169311,777
15,168Interest rates
(a)0.20% Ð 7.36%1.22% Ð 7.50%0.96% Ð 8.00%0.20% Ð 8.00%
1.00% Ð 8.56%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
6532,7909,00812,451
11,875Variable rate
4467501,1292,325
1,749Interest rates
(a)5.00% Ð 8.63%2.56% Ð 8.50%5.25% Ð 8.25%2.56% Ð 8.63%
1.60% Ð 9.75%Subtotal$8,591$13,008$11,633$33,232
$35,475SubsidiariesSenior debt:Fixed rate
$172$1,151$1,084$2,407
$3,470Variable rate
1,1173894241,930
2,434Interest rates
(a)1.62% Ð 6.80%2.06% Ð 10.95%1.06% Ð 26.97%1.06% Ð 26.97%
2.03% Ð 13.95%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
5003502991,149
1,495Variable rate
34431Ñ465
425Interest rates
(a)7.25% Ð 7.38%4.12% Ð 7.04%6.13% Ð 6.70%4.12% Ð 7.38%
6.13% Ð 9.25%Subtotal$1,823$2,321$1,807$5,951
$7,824Total long-term debt$10,414$15,329$13,440$39,183
(b)(c)(d)$43,299(a)The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year-end,including non-U.S.dollar fixed and variabl
e rate issuances which excludes the effects of related derivative 
instruments.The use of these derivative instruments modifies JPMorgan ChaseÕs exposure to the contractual interest rates disclo
sed in the table above.The modified weighted average interest
rate for total long-term debt,including the effects of related derivative instruments,was 4.64% at December 31,2001.
(b)At December 31,2001,long-term debt aggregating $3.1 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase,in whole or in pa
rt,prior to maturity,based on the terms specified in the
respective notes.
(c)The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2001 is $10,414 million in 2002,
$5,758 million in 2003,$4,049 million in 2004,$2,879 million
in 2005 and $2,643 million in 2006.(d)Includes $1.2 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31,2001.The aggregate principal amount of these notes at 
their respective maturities is $4.7 billion.JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in variouscurrencies, although predominately U.S. dollars, with both fixed

and variable interest rates.
The weighted-average contractual interest rate for total long-
term debt was 5.12% and 6.52% as of December 31, 2001 and
2000, respectiv
ely. In order to modify exposure to interest rate
and currency exchange rate movements, JPMorgan Chase uti-

lizes derivative instruments, primarily interest rate and currency

swaps, in conjunction with some of its debt issues. The use of
these instruments mod
ifies the FirmÕs interest expense on the
associated debt. The modified weighted average interest rate for

total long-term debt, including the effects of related derivative

instruments, was 4.64% and 6.70% as of December 31, 2001 
and 2000, respectively. 
JPMorgan Chase has guaranteed several long-term debt issues ofits subsidiaries. Guaranteed debt totaled $180 million and $195
million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the FirmÕs
junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures
At December 31, 2001, 11 wholly owned Delaware statutory
business trusts established by JPMorgan Chase had issued an
aggregate $4,439 million in capital securities, net of discount. 

The capital securities qualify as Tier 1 capital of the Firm. The

proceeds from each issuance were invested in a corresponding

series of junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of

JPMorgan Chase. The sole asset of each statutory business trust
is the relevant debenture. The Firm has fully and unconditionally

guaranteed each of the business trustÕs obligations under each

trustÕs capital securities to the extent set forth in the guarantee.

Each trustÕs capital securities are subject to mandatory redemp-

tion, in whole or in part, upon repayment of the debentures at

their stated maturity or earlier redemption.
The following is a summary of the outstanding capital securities,net of discount, issued by each trust and the junior subordinated

deferrable interest debenture issued by JPMorgan Chase to each

trust as of December 31, 2001:($ in millions)Amount of capitalPrincipal amount Stated maturity ofInterest rate ofInterest
securities,net of discount of debenture,capital securitiescapital securitiespayment/distribution
Name of trustissued by trust
(a)held by trust(b)and debenturesand debenturesdates
Chase Capital I$600$61920267.67%Semiannual - Commencing 1997
Chase Capital II4955162027LIBOR + 0.50%Quarterly - Commencing 1997

Chase Capital III2963092027LIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly - Commencing 1997

Chase Capital IV35036120277.34%Quarterly - Commencing 1998

Chase Capital V20020620287.03%Quarterly - Commencing 1998

Chase Capital VI2482582028LIBOR + 0.625%Quarterly - Commencing 1998

Chase Capital VII35036120297.00%Quarterly - Commencing 1999

Chase Capital VIII25025820308.25%Quarterly - Commencing 2000

JPM Capital Trust I75077320277.54%Semiannual - Commencing 1997

JPM Capital Trust II40041220277.95%Semiannual - Commencing 1997
JPMorgan Chase Capital IX50051520317.50%Quarterly - Commencing 2001
Total$4,439$4,588
(a)Represents the amount of capital securities issued to the public by each trust.These amounts are reflected as liabilities of
 JPMorgan Chase.
(b)Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures held as assets by each trust.These amounts represent intercompa
ny transactions and are eliminated in JPMorgan ChaseÕs
Consolidated financial statements.
Chase Preferred Capital Corporation ("Chase Preferred Capital"),
a wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, a bank
subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase, is a real estate investment trust

("REIT") established for the purpose of acquiring, holding and
managing real estate mortgage assets. At December 31, 2001,

there were 22 million shares of 8.10% cumulative preferred

stock, Series A ("Series A preferred shares") issued and out-

standing (liquidation preference, $25 per share). Dividends on
the Series A preferred shares are cumulative and are payable
quarterly. The dividends are recorded as minority interest expense

by JPMorgan Chase. The Series A preferred shares are treated as

Tier 1 capital of JPMorgan Chase and Tier 2 capital of JPMorgan
Chase Bank. The total amount of Series A preferred shares out-

standing at both December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $550 million.Preferred stock of subsidiary
12JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
81notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
82JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
Stated value andSharesOutstanding at December 31,EarliestRate in effect at
redemption price per share(a)(in millions) 2001(in millions) 2000redemption dateDecember 31,2001
Adjustable rate,Series A cumulative$100.002.42
$242$242See Note
(b)5.00%(c)Variable,Series B,C,D,E and F cumulative1,000.000.25
Ñ250ÑÑ
Adjustable rate,Series L cumulative100.002.00
200200See Note
(b)4.54(c)Adjustable rate,Series N cumulative25.009.10
228228See Note
(b)4.59(c)10.84% cumulative25.008.00
Ñ200ÑÑ
Fixed/adjustable rate,noncumulative50.004.00
2002006/30/20034.96
(c)6.63% Series H cumulative500.000.28
1392003/31/20066.63
Total preferred stock$1,009$1,520(a)Redemption price includes amount shown in the table plus any accrued but unpaid dividends.
(b)The shares are redeemable at any time with not less than 30 nor more than 60 daysÕ notice.

(c)Floating rates are based on certain U.S.Treasury rates.The minimum and maximum rates for Series A are 5.00% and 11.50% and f
or Series L and Series N are 4.50% and 10.50%,respec-
tively.The fixed/adjustable rate preferred stock remains fixed at 4.96% through June 30,2003;thereafter,the minimum and maximum
 rates are 5.46% and 11.46%,respectively.
14Common stockJPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 4.5 billion shares of 
common stock, with a $1 par value per share. The number of

shares of common stock issued and outstanding were as follows:
December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Issued1,996.91,940.1(a)2,066.5Held in treasury(23.5)(11.6)(a)(216.0)Outstanding1,973.41,928.51,850.5
(a)Under the terms of the merger agreement,on December 31,2000,all 126.4 million
treasury shares of J.P.Morgan were canceled and retired.
On July 19, 2001, JPMorgan ChaseÕs Board of Directors author-
ized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the FirmÕs common

stock, net of issuance for employee benefit plans. As of
December 31, 2001, the Firm had repurchased 21.9 million

shares of common stock under this authorization. During 2001,

approximately 65.0 million shares were issued, under various

employee stock option and other stock-based plans, and 
approximately 1.8 million shares were issued in connection 

with purchase accounting acquisitions. 
During 2000, approximately 20.3 million shares of outstanding
common stock were repurchased by JPMorgan Chase under a

stock repurchase plan which began on January 19, 2000 and 

was formally terminated on October 17, 2000.JPMorgan Chase shareholders approved a three-for-two stock
split at their annual meeting on May 16, 2000. The record date

for the split was May 17, 2000, and the additional shares of the

FirmÕs common stock issued as a result of the split were distributed

on June 9, 2000. As of December 31, 2001, approximately 399 million unissued
shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under various

employee incentive, option and stock purchase plans. 
Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from treasury)
by JPMorgan Chase during 2001, 2000 and 1999 were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Employee benefit and compensation plans(a)64.479.471.7
Dividend reinvestment andstock purchase plans0.62.41.3
Purchase accounting acquisitions and other1.869.00.1
Total shares newly issued or distributed from treasury(b)66.8150.873.1
(a)See Note 19 for a discussion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs employee stock option plans.
(b)Shares distributed from treasury were 10.0 million in 2001,150.8 million in 2000 and
72.4 million in 1999.13JPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 200 million shares of
preferred stock, in one or more series, with a par value of $1
per share. Outstanding shares of preferred stock at December 31,

2001and 2000 were 17.8 million 
and 26.2 million, respectively.
During 2001, the Firm redeemed its 10.84% cumulative preferred

stock, its variable cumulative preferred stock, Series B, C, D, E

and F and repurchased 0.12 million shares of its 6.63% Series H

cumulative preferred stock.
Dividends on shares of each outstanding series of preferred
stock are 
payable quarterly. All the preferred stock outstanding
have preference over JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock for the

payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event
of a liquidation or dissolution of JPMorgan Chase. The following is a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs preferred
stock outstanding:Preferred stock
15Earnings per share
SFAS 128 requires the presentation of basic and diluted earnings
per share (ÒEPSÓ) in the income statement. Basic EPS is computed

by dividing net income applicable to common stock by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for

the period. Diluted EPS is computed 
using the same method asbasic EPS, but, in the denominator, common shares outstanding

reflect the potential dilution that could occur if convertible securities or other contracts to issue common stock were 

converted or exercised into common stock. Net income available

for common stock is the same computation for basic EPS and
diluted EPS as JPMorgan Chase had no convertible securities,
and, therefore, 
no adjustments to net income available for 
common stock were necessary. 
Basic and diluted earnings per share were as follows for the
dates indicated:
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200120001999
Basic earnings per share
Net income$1,694$5,727$7,501
Less:Preferred stock dividends
6696106
Net income applicable to common stock$1,628$5,631$7,395
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding
1,972.41,884.11,912.9
Net income per share$0.83$2.99$3.87
Diluted earnings per share
Net income applicable to common stock$1,628$5,631$7,395
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding
1,972.41,884.11,912.9
Add:Broad-based options
6.610.113.8
Options to key employees
44.674.878.1
Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding
2,023.61,969.02,004.8
Net income per share$0.80$2.86$3.69
16Comprehensive income
Comprehensive income is composed of net income and other
comprehensive income, which includes the after-tax change in

unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities, cash flow hedging

activities and foreign currency translation adjustments (including

the impact of related derivatives).
The following table presents other comprehensive income balances:
AccumulatedYear ended UnrealizedCashother
December 31,gains (losses)Translationflowcomprehensive
(in millions)on AFS securities
(a)adjustmentshedgesincome (loss)
Balance December 31,1998$522$(29)NA$493
Net change(1,949)28NA(1,921)
Balance December 31,1999(1,427)(1)NA(1,428)
Net change1,1834NA1,187
Balance December 31,2000(244)3NA(241)
Net change109(5)
(b)$(305)(201)
Balance December 31,2001$
(135)$(2)
(c)$(305)(d)$(442)(a)Primarily represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of
the Available-for-sale securities portfolio.Net changes for years 2000 and 1999 include

unrealized gains and losses on related hedges.
(b)Includes $316 million of after-tax losses on foreign currency translation from operations
for which the functional currency is other than the U.S.dollar,which are offset by $311

million of after-tax gains on hedges.
(c)Includes after-tax gains and losses on foreign currency translation including related hedge
results from operations for which the functional currency is other than the U.S.dollar.
(d)Includes $51 million of after-tax losses reclassified to income and $356 million of after-
tax losses representing the net change in derivative fair values and the impact of the

adoption of SFAS 133 that were recorded in other comprehensive income.
NA-Not applicable as SFAS 133 was adopted effective January 1,2001.
The net change amount, in the following table, represents the
sum of net unrealized holding gains (losses) and reclassification

adjustments of AFS securities. Reclassification adjustments are

amounts recognized in net income during the current year that

had been part of other comprehensive income in previous years.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Net unrealized holdings gains (losses)arising during the period,net of taxes
(a)$443
$1,212$(2,071)
Reclassification adjustment for (gains) lossesincluded in net income,net of taxes
(b)(334)(29)122
Net change$109
$1,183$(1,949)
(a)Net of tax expense of $308 million for 2001 and $808 million for 2000,and net of tax
benefit of $1,412 million for 1999.(b)Net of tax expense of $232 million for 2001 and $20 million for 2000,and net of tax
benefit of $64 million in 1999.JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
83notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
84JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Current income tax expenseU.S.
$598$1,976$1,220
Foreign8221,2241,420
State and local65356284
Total current expense1,4853,5562,924
Deferred income tax expense (benefit)U.S.
(618)(695)998
Foreign(73)18718
State and local53(42)48
Total deferred expense (benefit) (638)(550)1,064
Total income tax expense$847$3,006$3,988
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effects of unrealized
gains and losses on AFS securities, SFAS 133 transactions and

certain tax benefits associated with JPMorgan ChaseÕs employee

stock plans. The tax effect of these items is recorded directly in

StockholdersÕ equity. StockholdersÕ equity increased by $541 

million and $1,860 million in 2001 and 1999, respectively, and

decreased by $281 million in 2000 as a result of these tax effects.
Federal income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed
earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, to the extent such earn-

ings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of

time. For 2001, such earnings approximated $263 million on a

pre-tax basis. At December 31, 2001, the cumulative amount of

undistributed earnings in these subsidiaries approximated $1,667

million. It is not practicable at this time to determine the income
tax liability that would result upon repatriation of these earnings.
The tax expense (benefit) applicable to securities gains and 
losses for the years 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $286 million, $78 million and $(84) million, respectively.
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S. income tax rate 
to the effective tax rate for the past three years is shown in the 

following table:Year ended December 31,200120001999
Statutory U.S.federal tax rate
35.0%35.0%35.0%
Increase (decrease) in tax rate resulting from:

State and local income taxes,net of
federal income tax benefit
3.02.31.9
Tax-exempt income(5.8)(2.1)(1.1)
Foreign subsidiary earnings(3.1)(1.1)(0.7)
Other,net
3.90.3(0.4)
Effective tax rate
33.0%34.4%34.7%
The following table presents the domestic and foreign components
of income before income tax expense:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Domestic$1,258$5,844$7,821
Foreign(a)1,3082,8893,668
Income before income tax expense$2,566$8,733$11,489
(a)For purposes of this table,foreign income is defined as income generated from opera-
tionslocated outside the United States.
17Income taxesJPMorgan Chase and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. JPMorgan Chase uses the asset

and liability method required by SFAS 109 to provide income

taxes on all transactions recorded in the consolidated financial

statements. This requires that income taxes reflect the expected

future tax consequences of temporary differences between the

carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for book purposes and
for tax purposes. Accordingly, a deferred tax liability or asset for

each temporary dif
ference is determined based on the tax rates
that JPMorgan Chase expects to be in effect when the underlying

items of income and expense are to be realized. JPMorgan ChaseÕs

expense for income taxes includes the current and deferred 

portions of that expense. A valuation allowance is established 
to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount JPMorgan Chase

expects to be realized. 
Deferred income tax expense (benefit) results from differences
between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting

purposes and for income tax return purposes. The significant

components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected in

the following table:December 31,(in millions)
20012000Deferred tax assets
Allowance for loan losses
$1,502$1,058Allowance other than loan losses
7681,048Employee benefits2,7482,599Foreign operations
632418Fair value adjustments
384ÑForeign tax credit carryforward
100(a)225Gross deferred tax assets$6,134$5,348Deferred tax liabilities
Leasing transactions
$2,700$2,570Depreciation and amortization773815Fair value adjustments
Ñ367Other25568Gross deferred tax liabilities$3,728$3,820Valuation allowance
$165$165Net deferred tax asset$2,241$1,363(a)Includes $80 million expiring in 2004 and $20 million expiring in 2005.
A valuation allowance has been recorded in accordance with
SFAS 109, primarily relating to tax benefits associated with for-

eign operations and with state and local deferred tax assets.

The components of income tax expense included in the
Consolidated statement of income were as follows:
Postretirement medical and life insurance
JPMorgan Chase provides postretirement medical and life insur-
ance benefits to qualifying domestic and foreign employees.

These benefits vary with length of service and date of hire and

provide for limits on JPMorgan ChaseÕs share of covered medical

benefits. The medical benefits are contributory, while the life

insurance benefits are noncontributory. 
JPMorgan Chase's postretirement benefit obligations are funded
with corporate-owned life insurance (ÒCOLIÓ) purchased on the

lives of eligible employees and retirees. Assets of the COLI policies

are held in a separate account with the insurance company. 

The insurance company invests the cash value of the policies in
equities, bonds and other debt securities. While JPMorgan Chase
owns the COLI policies, COLI proceeds (death benefits, with-

drawals and other distributions) may be used only to reimburse

the Firm for its net postretirement benefit claim payments and

related administrative expenses.Postretirement medical and life insurance liability
As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions)
20012000Benefit obligation$(1,056)$(918)Plan assets at fair value
1,089358Funded status33(560)Unrecognized amounts(105)(278)Accrued postretirement medical and life insurance cost
$(72)$(838)Benefits paid(a)$72
$66
(a) Net of $13 million and $12 million of retiree contributions in 2001 and 2000,
respectively.
Postretirement medical and life insurance expense (reported in
Compensation expense) totaled $27 million in 2001, $32 million
in 2000 and $44 million in 1999. The discount rates and rates of increase for future compensation
used to determine the actuarial values for postretirement medical

and life insurance benefits are generally consistent with those

used for the domestic pension plan. At December 31, 2001,
JPMorgan ChaseÕs assumed weighted-average medical benefits

cost trend rate used to measure the expected cost of benefits

covered was 8.75% for 2001, declining gradually over seven

years to a floor of 5.0%. The effect of a 1% change in the

assumed medical cost trend rate would result in a corresponding

change in the December 31, 2001 benefit obligation and 2001
periodic expense by up to 5.2%.18Postretirement employee benefit plans
New domestic postretirement plans were approved in 2001, and

the prior plans of Chase and J.P. Morgan were merged as of

December 31, 2001.Pension plansJPMorgan Chase has a noncontributory domestic pension planthat provides defined benefits to substantially all domestic

employees. The domestic plan employs a cash balance defined
benefit formula that provides for benefits based on salary and

service. For J.P. Morgan employees who were earning benefits

under a prior plan formula as of December 31, 1998, the plan
also provides a minimum benefit based on eligible compensation

and service through December 31, 2003. The following table

presents the funded status and actuarial assumptions for the

domestic plan.Domestic pension planAs of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions)
20012000Benefit obligation $(4,007)$(3,898)Plan assets at fair value
4,0484,314Funded status41416Unrecognized amounts376(212)Prepaid pension cost reported in Other assets
$417
$204Employer contributions to trust$326
$9Benefits paid out of trust
352324Weighted-average annualized actuarial  
Assumptions as of December 31:
Discount rate
7.25%7.5-7.75%
(a)Assumed rate of long-term return on plan assets
9.25%9.0-9.50%
(a)Rate of increase in future compensation4.5%3.6-5.66%
(a)(a) Range of assumptions in 2000 of individual predecessor plans.
The periodic domestic pension plan expense (reported in
Compensation expense) totaled $113 million in 2001, $76 million
in 2000 and $75 million in 1999. JPMorgan Chase also has a number of other defined benefit
pension plans (i.e., domestic plans not subject to Title IV of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act) and several foreign

pension plans. Compensation expense related to these plans

totaled $50 million in 2001, $45 million in 2000 and $48 million
in 1999. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, JPMorgan ChaseÕs
liability (included in Accrued expenses) related to plans that
JPMorgan Chase elected not to prefund fully totaled $249 million

and $234 million, respectively. A prepaid asset of $184 million

was included in Other assets at December 31, 2001, as the Firm
elected to fund certain plans during the year.
Compensation expense related to defined contribution plans
totaled $208 million in 2001, $213 million in 2000 and $195
million in 1999. JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
85notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
86JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
In January 2001, JPMorgan Chase granted 82.2 million optionsunder the LTI Plans pursuant to a growth performance incentive

program (ÒGPIPÓ). The exercise price of all GPIP awards is $51.22,

the price of JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock on the grant date.

One half of the GPIP options are exercisable after two years if a

firm-wide performance target (Òcorporate performance goalÓ) is
achieved, with the remaining 50% exercisable after two years if

certain business specific performance targets are achieved. The

corporate performance goal will be achieved if cumulative diluted
cash operating earnings per share for 2001 and 2002, excluding

JPMorgan Partners, equals or exceeds $8.50. Business specific
performance targets are based primarily 
on SVA. If the targets 
are not achieved, options will be 
exercisable
after six years. As of December 31, 2001, 4.8 million GPIP options had been 
forfeited. All GPIP options expire ten years after the grant date. 
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs option activity under the LTI Plans, excluding GPIP, during the last
 three years.
Year ended December 31,200120001999
(Amounts in thousands,
Number of Weighted-average
Number ofWeighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-average
except per share amounts)optionsexercise price
optionsexercise priceoptionsexercise price
Options outstanding,January 1
175,232$31.52
183,456$27.99169,119$23.28
Granted
54,70950.85
22,48848.2445,361
(a)38.87Exercised(28,954)25.69
(25,106)20.25(28,134)17.72
Canceled(6,035)48.92
(5,606)34.29(2,890)33.67
Options outstanding,December 31
194,952$37.26
175,232$31.52183,456$27.99
Options exercisable,December 31
123,045$30.34
130,479$27.46100,702$21.06
(a)Includes 5,124,000 options at a weighted-average exercise price of $15.61 related to the acquisition of H&Q.
The following table details the distribution of options outstanding under the LTI Plans, 
excluding GPIP, at December 31, 2001.
Options outstandingOptions exercisable
Range of OptionsWeighted-averageWeighted-average remainingOptionsWeighted-average
exercise pricesoutstandingexercise pricecontractual life (in years)exercisableexercise price
$3.41 Ð $20.0035,114$15.662.434,855$15.66
$20.01 Ð $35.0032,69527.614.831,10727.49

$35.01 Ð $50.0078,88042.287.053,53140.14
$50.01 Ð $65.5848,26351.328.93,55251.68
Total194,952$37.266.3123,045$30.34
Restricted stock and RSUs are granted by JPMorgan Chase under
the LTI Plans at no cost to the recipient. Restricted stock/units are

subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have lapsed, including

continued employment for a specified period. The recipient of a

share of restricted stock is entitled to voting rights and dividends

on the common stock. An RSU entitles the recipient to receive a

share of common stock after the applicable restrictions lapse; the

recipient is entitled to receive cash payments equivalent to divi-
dends on the underlying common stock during the period the
RSU is outstanding.During 2001, 25.9 million restricted stock/unit awards (all payable
solely in stock) were granted by JPMorgan Chase. Of the 25.9

million restricted stock/unit awards granted, vesting of 1.3 million

of such awards also is conditioned upon certain vesting periods

being met and JPMorgan ChaseÕs stock price reaching and sus-

taining target prices (the ÒtargetsÓ) during the service period.
The awards are forfeited in their entirety if the targets are not

achieved (Òforfeitable awardsÓ). Half of the 2001 forfeitable

awards have a target price of $75, which exceeded the stock

price on the grant date by 46%. The other half have a target
price of $85, which exceeded the stock price on the grant date
by 66%.19Employee stock-based incentivesKey employee stock-based awards
JPMorgan Chase has long-term stock-based incentive plans (theÒLTI PlansÓ) that provide for grants of common stock-based

awards, including stock options, restricted stock and restricted

stock units (ÒRSUÓ) to certain key employees.Under the LTI Plans, stock options are granted with exercise
prices equal to JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock price on the

grant date. Generally, options cannot be exercised until at least

one year after the grant date and become exercisable over various

periods as determined at the time of the grant. Options generally
expire ten years after the grant date.
Under the LTI Plans, in 2000 and 1999, 36.1 million and 26.2
million awards (all payable solely in stock), respectively, were

granted by JPMorgan Chase. In both years, 1.3 million of the
restricted stock/unitawards that were granted are forfeitable if
target prices are not achieved. None of the 2000 and 1999 

forfeitable awards have vested as the target prices have not 

been achieved. A portion of certain employeesÕ incentive compensation thatexceeds specified levels is awarded in restricted stock or RSUs

(the Òrequired deferral planÓ) that are issued under the LTI Plans.

These restricted stock/units vest solely based on continued

employment. During 2001, 2000 and 1999, 137,500, 160,000
and 149,000, respectively, of such 
awards wer
e granted.Broad-based employee stock options
In January 2001, JPMorgan Chase granted Value Sharing Plan
awards, under which 26.0 million options to purchase common

stock were granted to all eligible full-time (375 options each) and

part-time (188 options each) employees. This award is the second

of three equal annual grants to eligible active employees. The

exercise price for each annual grant is equal to JPMorgan ChaseÕs

common stock price on the grant date. The options become
exercisable after five years, or earlier if
 JPMorgan ChaseÕs stock
price reaches and sustains a target price for a minimum period.

The 2000 and 2001 grants have not achieved their price targets.Under the Value Sharing Plan adopted by JPMorgan Chase in
December 1996, annual awards were granted in December of

1996, 1997 and 1998. The 1996, 1997 and 1998 awards

became exercisable in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively, as a

result of the target prices having been achieved. All outstandingoptions expire ten years after their respective grant dates. 
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs broad-based employee stock option plan activity during the past thre
e years:Year ended December 31,200120001999
(Amounts in thousands,
Number ofWeighted-average
Number ofWeighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-average
except per share amounts)optionsexercise price
optionsexercise priceoptionsexercise price
Options outstanding,January 1
67,237$38.17
50,937$31.6678,810$33.10
Granted
26,04251.22
28,05449.79ÑÑ
Exercised(2,267)27.65
(8,019)31.44(24,858)35.24
Canceled(3,619)49.54
(3,735)51.15(3,015)39.85
Options outstanding,December 31
87,393$41.86
67,237$38.1750,937$31.66
Options exercisable,December 31
40,390$31.76
42,768$31.5150,937$31.66
The following table details the distribution of broad-based employee stock options outstanding at December 31, 2001.
Options outstandingOptions exercisable
Range of OptionsWeighted-averageWeighted-average remainingOptionsWeighted-average
exercise pricesoutstandingexercise pricecontractual life (in years)exercisableexercise price
$10.26 Ð $20.007,763$12.812.37,763$12.81
$20.01 Ð $35.008,14528.795.08,14528.79

$35.01 Ð $50.0047,10144.067.324,48238.76
$50.01 Ð $51.5024,38451.229.1ÑÑ
Total87,393$41.867.140,390$31.76
Comparison of the fair and intrinsic value based measurement methods
JPMorgan Chase accounts for its employee stock-based compen-sation plans under the intrinsic value based method in accordance

with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, ÒAccounting

for Stock Issued to Employees.Ó There is no expense recognized

for stock options, as they have no intrinsic value on the grant
date. Forfeitable restricted stock and RSUs are expensed based

upon the target prices. The expense for restricted stock and RSUs

other than forfeitable awards is measured by the grant-date

stock price. Pre-tax stock compensation expense recognized in

reported earnings totaled $0.8 billion in 2001, $1.1 billion in
2000 and $1.0 billion in 1999. If JPMorgan Chase had adopted the fair value based method

pursuant to SFAS 123, options would be valued using a Black-
Scholes model. The following table presents net income and

basic and diluted ear
nings per share as reported and after the
impact of applying SFAS
123. The higher impact from applying
SFAS 123 in 2001 reflects the lower level of net income and

increased options granted during 2001.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
87notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
88JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200120001999
Net incomeAs reported
$1,694$5,727$7,501
After applying SFAS 123
1,0725,3717,073
Basic earnings per shareAs 
reported$0.83$2.99$3.87
After applying SFAS 123
0.512.803.64
Diluted earnings per shareAs 
reported$0.80$2.86$3.69
After applying SFAS 123
0.502.683.47
The following table presents JPMorgan ChaseÕs weighted-average
grant-date fair value and assumptions used to value the options
using a Black-Scholes model for equity awards granted:
Year ended December 31,200120001999
Weighted-average grant-date fair value
Options granted to:
Key employees$18.39$18.79$12.99
All other employees14.6017.66Ñ
All restricted stock and RSUs payable in stock
49.2142.8839.25
Weighted-average annualized option 
valuation assumptionsRisk-free interest rate
5.08%6.65%5.14%
Expected dividend yield
(a)2.512.252.41
Expected common stock price volatility373830
Assumed weighted-average expected 
life of options (in years)
Key employee stock options6.86.86.7
Broad-based employee stock options3.85.5Ñ
(a)The expected dividend yield is based primarily on historical data at the grant dates.
2021The principal sources of JPMorgan ChaseÕs income (on a parent
company-only basis) are dividends and interest from JPMorgan

Chase Bank and the other banking and nonbanking subsidiaries
of JPMorgan Chase. In addition to dividend restrictions set forth

in statutes and regulations, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office

of the Comptroller of the Currency (ÒOCCÓ) and the Federal

Deposit Insurance Corporation (ÒFDICÓ) have authority under
the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to 
prohibit or to limit
the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they
supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries that
are banks or bank holding companies, if, in the banking regula-
torÕs opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe

or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the
banking organization.At December 31, 2001 and 2000, JPMorgan ChaseÕs bank sub-
sidiaries could pay, in the aggregate, $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion,

respectively, in dividends to their respective bank holding compa-
nies without prior approval of their relevant banking regulators.
In compliance with rules and regulations established by domestic
and foreign regulators, cash of $2.0 billion and $1.6 billion and

securities with a market value of $4.4 billion and $6.2 billion
were segregated in special bank accounts for the benefit of

securities and futures brokerage customers as of December 31,

2001 and 2000, respectively.
CapitalThere are two categories of risk-based capital: core capital

(referred to as Tier 1 capital) and supplementary capital

(referred to as Tier 2 
capital). Tier 1 capital includes common
stockholdersÕ equity, qualifying preferred stock and minority

interest less goodwill and other adjustments. Tier 2 capital con-

sists of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1, long-term debt

and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2, the aggregate

allowance for credit losses up to a certain percentage of risk-

weighted assets, less i
nvestments in certain subsidiaries. Under
the risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board,
JPMorgan Chase is required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier

1 and total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets.

Failure to meet these minimum requirements could result in

actions taken by the Federal Reserve Board. Bank subsidiaries
also are subject 
to thesecapital r
equirements by their respective
primary regulators. 
Management believes that as of December 31,2001, JPMorgan Chase met 
all capital requirements to which it
was subject and is not aware of any subsequent events that

would alter this classification.Restrictions on cash and intercompany funds transfers
The Federal Reserve Board requires depository institutions to
maintain cash reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank. The average

amount of reserve balances deposited by JPMorgan ChaseÕs bank

subsidiaries with various Federal Reserve Banks was approximately

$1.1 billion in 2001 and $0.6 billion in 2000.Restrictions imposed by federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase and
certain other affiliates from borrowing from banking subsidiaries

unless the loans are secured in specified amounts. Such secured

loans to JPMorgan Chase or to other affiliates generally are limited

to 10% of the banking subsidiaryÕs total capital, as determined

by the risk-based capital guidelines; the aggregate amount of all

such loans is limited to 20% of the banking subsidiaryÕs total

capital. JPMorgan Chase and its affiliates were well within these

limits throughout the year.
The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries:
Risk-AdjustedTier 1TotalTier 1
Tier 1Totalweightedaveragecapital
(c)(e)capital(c)(e)leverage
(c)(f)December 31,2001 (in millions)capital
(b)(c)capital(c)assets(d)assetsratioratioratio
J.P.Morgan Chase & Co.
(a)$37,713$54,073$455,123$729,9318.29%11.88%5.17%
JPMorgan Chase Bank31,55642,560379,885583,0088.31%11.20%5.41%
Chase Manhattan Bank USA,N.A.
3,8855,72748,02548,9708.09%11.93%7.93%
Well capitalized ratios
(g)6.00%10.00%5.00%
(h)Minimum capital ratios
(g)4.00%8.00%3.00%
(a)Assets and capital amounts for JPMorgan ChaseÕs banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany transactions,whereas the respectiv
e amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect the elimination of inter-company transactions.
(b)In accordance with Federal Reserve Board risk-based capital guidelines,minority interest for JPMorgan Chase includes preferr
ed stock instruments issued by subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase.
For a further discussion,see Notes 11 and 12.
(c)The provisions of SFAS 115 do not apply to the calculations of the Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios.The risk-based 
capital guidelines permit the inclusion of 45% of the pre-tax unreal-ized gain on certain equity securities in the calculation of Tier 2 capital.
(d)Includes off-balance sheet risk-weighted assets in the amounts of $155,191 million,$144,794 million and $4,816 million,respe
ctively,at December 31,2001.
(e)Tier 1 capital or total capital,as applicable,divided by risk-weighted assets.Risk-weighted assets include assets and off-ba
lance sheet positions,weighted by the type of instruments and the
risk weight of the counterparty,collateral or guarantor.
(f)Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average assets (net of allowance for loan losses,goodwill and certain intangible assets).

(g)As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve Board,the FDIC and the OCC.

(h)Represents requirements for bank subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
 Improvement Act.There is no Tier 1 leverage component in the
definition of a well capitalized bank holding company.
The following table shows the components of the FirmÕs Tier 1
and total capital.December 31,(in millions)
20012000Tier 1 capitalCommon stockholdersÕ equity$40,530$41,062Nonredeemable preferred stock1,0091,271Minority interest(a)5,0844,662Less:Goodwill and investments in certain subsidiaries
8,2318,783Nonqualifying intangible assets679631Tier 1 capital$37,713$37,581Tier 2 capitalLong-term debt and other instruments 
qualifying as Tier 2
12,05112,833Qualifying allowance for credit losses
4,7593,955Less:Investment in certain subsidiaries
450917Tier 2 capital16,36015,871Total qualifying capital
$54,073$53,452(a) Minority interest includes trust preferred stocks of certain business trust subsidiaries and
the preferred stock of a Real Estate Investment Trust subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase.For a

further discussion,see Notes 11 and 12.
22Premises and equipment, goodwill 
and other intangiblesPremises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are
carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.

JPMorgan Chase generally computes depreciation using the

straight-line method over the estimated useful life of an asset.
For leasehold improvements, the Firm uses the straight-line

method over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility

or the estimated economic life of the improvement. JPMorgan

Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisition or
development of internal-use software. Once the software is ready

for its intended use, these costs are amortized on a straight-line

basis over the softwareÕs expected useful life.
Goodwill and other acquired intangibles, such as core deposits
and credit card relationships, are amortized over the estimated

periods to be benefited, generally ranging from 7 to 25 years.

An impairment review is performed periodically on these assets.
Capitalized mortgage servicing assets consist of purchased and
originated servicing rights. These rights are amortized in proportion

to, and over the period of, the estimated future net servicing

income stream of the underlying mortgage loans. Mortgage

servicing rights are 
periodically evaluated for impairment basedon their current fair values. For purposes of evaluating and

measuring impairment of MSRs, the Firm stratifies its portfolio onthe basis of the predominant risk characteristics: loan type and

interest rate.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
89notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
90JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
24JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number
of legal proceedings. After reviewing with counsel all such actions

and proceedings pending against or involving JPMorgan Chase

and its subsidiaries, management does not expect the aggregate

liability or loss, if any, resulting from such proceedings to have a

material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of

JPMorgan Chase although the outcome of a particular proceeding

may be material to JPMorgan ChaseÕs results of operations for

any particular period depending on the size of the loss or liability
relative to JPMorgan ChaseÕs income for that period.
The Firm has $1,130 million of nonperforming Enron-related
other receivables, which represent surety receivables and a letter

of credit that are the subject of litigation with insurance compa-

nies and a foreign bank.
JPMorgan Chase may guarantee the obligations of its subsidiaries.These guarantees rank on a parity with all other unsecured and

unsubordinated indebtedness of JPMorgan Chase. See Note 11

for a discussion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs guarantees 
of long-termdebt-related instruments of its subsidiaries.
Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activitiesOn January 1, 2001, JPMorgan Chase adopted SFAS 133, which
establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative

instruments, including derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts used for trading and hedging activities. All derivatives,
whether designated for hedging relationships or 
not, are required
to be recorded on the balance 
sheet at fair value. If the derivativeis designated as a fair value hedge, all changes in the fair value
of the derivative and changes in the fair value of the hedged
item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized 
in earnings. 
If the derivative is designated as 
a cash flow hedge, the effective
portion of the change in the fair value of the derivativeisrecorded in other comprehensive 
income(ÒOCIÓ) 
and recognized
in the income statement when the hedged item affects earnings.
The ineffective portions of cash 
flow hedges are immediatelyrecognized in earnings.
The majority of JPMorgan Chase's derivatives are entered into
for trading purposes and were not affected by the adoption 

of SFAS 133. The Firm also uses derivatives as an end user to
hedge market exposures, modify the interest rate characteristics
of related balance sheet instruments or meet longer-term 

investment objectives. Both trading and end-user derivatives are recorded at fair value in Trading assets and Trading liabilities. 
The adoption of SFAS 133 resulted in an after-tax reduction to
net income of $25 million and an after-tax reduction to OCI of

$36 million. The impact of reclassifying certain SFAS 115 securi-
ties from AFS to trading was not material at the adoption date.
23Commitments and contingenciesAt December 31, 2001, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were

obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases for
premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes.

Certain leases contain rent escalation clauses for real estate taxes

and other operating expenses and renewal option clauses calling

for increased rents. No lease agreement imposes any restrictions

on JPMorgan ChaseÕs ability to pay dividends, engage in debt or

equity financing transactions, or enter into further lease agreements.

Future minimum rental payments required under operating leases

with noncancelable lease terms that expire after December 31,

2001 were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
2002$615
2003596

2004549

2005494

2006466
After4,336
Total minimum payments required7,056
Less:Sublease rentals under noncancelable subleases139
Net minimum payment required$6,917
Total rental expense was as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Gross rentals$804$716$654
Sublease rentals(135)(79)(133)
Net rent expense$669$637$521
At December 31, 2001, assets were pledged to secure public
deposits and for other purposes. The significant components of the
assets pledged were as follows:
At December 31,(in billions)
20012000Securities$50
$44
Loans3120Other(a)188177Total assets pledged$269$241(a)Primarily composed of trading assets and reverse repurchase agreements.
Collateral that can be sold or repledged was composed as follows:
At December 31,(in billions)
20012000Collateral received
(a)$166$147Collateral used
(b)134136(a)Generally obtained under resale and securities borrowing agreements.
(b)Generally as collateral under repurchase agreements or to cover short sales.
Due to SFAS 133, JPMorgan Chase changed certain hedging
strategies and elected not to designate some derivatives utilized
to manage economic exposure as accounting hedges. For exam-

ple, to moderate its use of derivatives, the mortgage business
began using AFS securities as economic hedges of mortgage
servicing rights.  Certain interest rate derivatives are recorded in Trading revenue
due to operational and cost constraints of applying hedge
accounting. Changes in the fair value of credit derivatives used

to managethe 
Firm's credit risk are recorded in Trading revenue
because of the difficulties in qualifying such contracts as hedges

of loans and commitments. Because of hedge ineffectiveness
and managementÕs decision to 
no longer apply hedge accountingbut to continue to enter into economic hedges to support certainbusiness strategies,the 
application of SFAS 133 may cause
volatility in quarterly earnings and equity. 
Prior to the adoption of SFAS133, derivatives used for hedging
purposes generally were not recorded on the Consolidated 

balance sheet and the unrealized gains and losses were deferred

on those contracts.Derivatives used as hedges must be considered to be highly
effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being

hedged. Each derivative must be designated as a hedge, with
documentation of the risk management objective and strategy
for the hedge, including identification of the hedging instrument,
the hedged item and the risk exposure, and how effectiveness 

is assessed prospectively and retrospectively.
JPMorgan Chase's fair value hedges primarily include hedges offixed rate long-term debt, loans, AFS securities and mortgage
servicing rights. Interest rate swaps are the most common type 

of derivative contract used to modify exposure to interest rate

risk by converting fixed rate assets and liabilities to a floating
rate. All amounts have been included in earnings consistent

with the hedged transaction, primarily net interest income, Fees
and commissions and Other revenue. JPMorgan Chase did not

recognize any gains or losses during 2001 on firm commitmentsthat no longer qualify as fair value hedges. JPMorgan Chase enters into derivative contracts to hedge exposure
to variability in cash flows for floating rate financial instruments
and forecasted transactions, that primarily include the rollover of

short-term assets and liabilities, loan sales and anticipated securities
transactions. Interest rate swaps, futures and options are the

most common instruments used to reduce the impact of interest

rate changes on future earnings. All amounts have been included

in earnings consistent with the hedged transaction, primarily net

interest income. 
JPMorgan Chase primarily uses forward foreign exchange con-
tracts and foreign currency denominated debt instruments to

protect the value of its net investments in its foreign subsidiaries

in foreign currencies. The portion of the hedging instruments

excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (forward

points) is recorded in Net interest income. 
25Off-balance sheet lending-related 
financial instrumentsJPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments 
as one method by which to meet the financing needs of its 
customers. JPMorgan Chase issues commitments to extend 
credit, standby letters of credit and guar
antees and also provides 
securities-lending services. F
or lending-related financial instruments,
the contractual amount of the financial instrument represents the

maximum potential credit risk if the counterparty does not per-

form according to the terms of the contract. A large majority of

these commitments expire without being drawn upon. As a

result, total contractual amounts are not representative of the
FirmÕs actual future credit exposure or liquidity requirements for

these commitments.Additionally, to provide for risk of losses inherent in the credit
extension process, management computes specific and expected

loss components as well as a residual component for lending-

related commitments. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, theAllowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments,

which is reported in Other liabilities, was $282 million and $283

million, respectively. 
The following table summarizes the contract amounts relating to
JPMorgan ChaseÕs lending-related financial instruments at

December 31, 2001 and 2000:Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments
December 31,(in millions)
20012000Credit card lines$104,785$93,273Other unfunded commitments to extend credit
(a)204,397217,547Standby letters of credit and guarantees
(a)41,16343,091Other letters of credit(a)2,1512,516CustomersÕ securities lent111,16795,040(a)Net of risk participations totaling $13,935 million and $10,203 million at December 31,
2001 and 2000,respectively.
The following table presents derivative instrument and hedging
related activities for the period indicated.Year ended December 31,(in millions)
2001Fair value hedge ineffective net gains
(a)$386
Cash flow hedge ineffective net losses(a)(7)Cash flow hedging gains on forecastedtransactions that failed to occur
40(b)Expected reclassifications from OCI to earnings(c)(177)(a)Includes ineffectiveness and the components of hedging instruments that have been
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
(b)Represents recognized gains in net interest income for cash flow hedges of AFS security
purchases that were discontinued because the forecasted transaction failed to occur.
(c)Represents the reclassification of net losses on derivative instruments from OCI to earnings
that are expected to occur over the next 12 months.The maximum length of time over

which forecasted transactions are hedged is ten years,related to core lending activities.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
91notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
92JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
27Fair value is defined as the value at which positions could beclosed out or sold in a transaction with a willing and knowl-
edgeable counterparty over a period of time consistent withJPMorgan ChaseÕs trading or investment strategy.
The accounting for an asset or liability may differ based on the
type of instrument and/or its use in a trading or investing strategy.

Generally, the measurement framework recorded in financial

statements is one of the following: ¥Recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in
fair value recorded each period in the Consolidated statement

of income;¥Recorded at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in
fair value recorded each period in a separate component of

StockholdersÕ equity and as part of other comprehensive

income; ¥Recorded at cost (less other-than-temporary impairments) with
changes in fair value not recorded in the financial statements

but disclosed in the notes thereto; or
¥Recorded at the lower-of-cost or market.
Fair value of financial instrumentsThe table below indicates major product and industry segments, 
including both on-balance sheet (principally loans) and off-balance
sheet(principally unfunded commitments to extend credit) exposures:
2001 distributions2000 distributionsCreditOn-balanceOff-balance
CreditOn-balanceOff-balance
December 31,(in billions)
exposuresheetsheet
exposuresheetsheet
Credit cards$124.2$19.4$104.8
$111.8$18.5$93.3
Depository institutions65.243.321.9
68.147.320.8
Residential mortgages64.059.94.1
54.250.63.6
Auto financings 26.025.70.3
20.019.80.2
Commercial real estate9.14.34.8
9.76.33.4
Total$288.5$152.6$135.9
$263.8$142.5$121.3
26Unfunded commitments to extend credit
are agreements 
to lend to a customer who has complied with predetermined
contractual conditions. Commitments generally have fixed 
expiration dates. Unfunded commitments to extend credit

include $41.9 billion of commitments to SPEs.Standby letters of credit and guarantees
are conditional
commitments issued by JPMorgan Chase generally to guarantee
the performance of a customer to a third party in borrowing

arrangements, such as commercial paper issuances, bond

financing, construction and similar transactions. The credit risk
involved in issuing standby letters of credit is essentially the same

as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers and may
be reduced by participations to third parties. JPMorgan Chase

holds collateral to support those standby letters of credit and

guarantees when deemed necessary.
CustomersÕ securities lentare customersÕ securities held by
JPMorgan Chase, as custodian, which are lent to third parties.

JPMorgan Chase obtains collateral, with a market value exceeding
100% of the contract amount, for customersÕ securities lent,

which is used to indemnify customers against possible losses
resulting from third-party defaults.
Credit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers
are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same

geographic region, or have similar economic features that would

cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly
affected by changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of its credit
risk portfolio to assess potential concentration risks and to
obtain collateral when deemed necessary. 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs exposures within these major segments are
diversified, and these diversification factors reduce concentration

risk. More information about geographic and other concentrations

can be found at the following tables in the MD&A:Industry diversification profilePage 50
Derivative and foreign exchange contractsPage 52

Selected country exposurePage 52

Residential mortgage loans by geographic regionPage 53

Managed credit card loans by geographic regionPage 53
Auto financings by geographic regionPage 53
Fair value is based on quoted market prices, where available. 
If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair value is based on

internally developed models that primarily use market-based or

independent information as inputs. These methods may produce

a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable

value or reflective of future fair values. Valuation adjustments are

made, at times, based on defined methodologies that are applied

consistently over time and that are intended to ensure that 

positions are carried at the 
best estimate of fair value. Valuation
adjustments include amounts to r
eflect counterparty credit quality,
liquidity and concentration concerns, and ongoing servicing

costs. JPMorgan ChaseÕs valuation process is continually subject

to a rigorous review, which includes valuation model and

methodology reviews and price testing with independent sources

where appropriate. 
Certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instrumentsare excluded from the scope of SFAS 107. Accordingly, the fair
value disclosures required by SFAS 107 provide only a partial 

estimate of the fair value of JPMorgan Chase. For example,
JPMorgan Chase has developed long-term relationships with its

customers through its deposit base and its credit card accounts,

commonly referred to as core deposit intangibles and credit card

relationships. In the opinion of management, these items in theaggregate add significant value to JPMorgan Chase, but their

fair value is not disclosed in this Note.The following captions describe the methodologies and assump-tions used, by financial instrument, to determine fair value.Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value
Fair values of certain financial assets carried at cost, includingcash and due from banks, deposits with banks, Federal funds

sold and securities purchased under resale agreements, securi-

ties borrowed, short-term receivables and accrued interest

receivable are 
considered to approximate their respective carrying
values due to their short-term nature and generally negligible

credit losses.
Assets where fair value differs from cost
JPMorgan ChaseÕs debt, equity and derivative instruments are
carried at their estimated fair value. Quoted market prices,
when available, ar
e used to determine the fair value of tradinginstruments. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair

values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of

instruments with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows.SecuritiesFair values of actively-traded securities are determined by the
secondary market, while the fair values for nonactively traded
securities are based on independent broker quotations.
DerivativesFair value for derivatives is determined based on the following:
¥Position valuation principally based on liquid market pricing asevidenced by exchange traded prices, broker-dealer quotations

or related input factors which assume all counterparties have

the same credit rating;
¥Adjustments to the resulting portfolio valuation to reflect the
credit quality of individual counterparties that are principally

based on market prices for credit risk; and
¥Other pricing adjustments to take into consideration are
liquidity, ongoing servicing costs, transaction hedging costs

and other factors. LoansFair value for loans is determined using methodologies suitablefor each type of loan: ¥Fair value for the commercial loan portfolio is based on the
assessment of the two main risk components of the portfolio:
credit and interest. The estimated cash flows are adjusted to

reflect the inherent credit risk and then are discounted using a
rate appropriate for each maturity that incorporates the

effects of interest rate changes.
¥Fair values for consumer installment loans (including autofinancings) and residential mortgages for which market rates

for comparable loans are readily available are based on

discounted cash flows, adjusted for prepayments. The

discount rates used for consumer installment loans are current

rates offered by commercial banks. For residential mortgages,

secondary market yields for comparable mortgage-backed
securities, adjusted for risk, are used.
¥Fair value for credit card receivables is based on discounted
expected cash flows. The discount rates used for credit card

receivables incorporate the effects of interest rate changes
only since the estimated cash flows are adjusted for credit risk.
¥The fair value of loans, in the held-for-sale and trading
portfolios, is generally based on observable market prices and
prices of similar instruments, including bonds and credit

derivatives. Otherwise, if market prices are not available, the

fair value is based on the estimated cash flows adjusted for
credit risk that is discounted using a rate appropriate for each

maturity that incorporates the effects of interest rate changes. 
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
93notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
94JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
20012000CarryingEstimatedAppreciation/CarryingEstimatedAppreciation/
December 31,(in billions)valuefair value(depreciation)valuefair value(depreciation)
Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value
$150.4$150.4$Ñ
$154.8$154.8$Ñ
Trading assets189.4189.4Ñ
215.6215.6Ñ
Securities available-for-sale
59.359.3Ñ
73.173.1Ñ
Securities held-to-maturity0.50.5Ñ
0.60.6Ñ
Loans,net of allowance for loan losses
212.9218.65.7
212.4213.61.2
Related derivatives
NANANA
Ñ(0.1)(0.1)
Other assets65.565.80.3
34.535.20.7
Related derivatives
NANANA
Ñ0.30.3
Total financial assets$678.0$684.0$6.0
$691.0$693.1$2.1
Financial liabilitiesLiabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value
$282.0$282.0$Ñ
$277.7$277.7$Ñ
Interest-bearing deposits216.7216.8(0.1)
216.7217.0(0.3)
Trading liabilities109.1109.1Ñ
128.7128.7Ñ
Long-term debt-related instruments43.644.4(0.8)
47.247.2Ñ
Related derivatives
NANANA
Ñ(0.3)0.3
Total financial liabilities$651.4$652.3$(0.9)
$670.3$670.3$Ñ
Net appreciation (depreciation)$5.1$2.1NA-Not applicable as SFAS 133 was adopted effective January 1,2001.
Other assets This caption includes private equity investments and mortgageservicing rights. The fair value of public securities held by JPMP are marked-to-market
at the quotedpublic value. To
 determine the carrying value,JPMPÕs valuation policy for public securities incorporates the use

of liquidity discounts and price averaging methodologies in certaincircumstances to 
take into account the fact that JPMP cannotimmediately realize the 
quoted public values as a result of the
regulatory, corporate, or other contractual sales restrictions gen-
erally imposed on these holdings. Private investments are initially

carried at cost, which is viewed as an approximation of fair value.

The carrying value of private investments is adjusted to reflect

valuation changes resulting from unaffiliated party transactions

and for evidence of a decline in value.Fair value for mortgage servicing rights is estimated using a discounted future cash flow model that considers portfolio 

characteristics and assumptions regarding prepayment speeds,

delinquency rates, ancillary revenues and other economic factors.

The Firm reviews such assumptions against market comparables,

if available.Financial liabilitiesLiabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value
SFAS 107 requires that the fair value disclosed for deposit liabili-
ties with no stated maturity (i.e., demand, savings and certain
money market deposits) be equal to the carrying value. SFAS 107

does not allow for the recognition of the inherent funding value

of these instruments.Fair value of federal funds purchased and securities sold under
repurchase agreements, commercial paper, other borrowed funds,
accounts payable and accrued liabilities is considered to approxi-

mate their respective carrying values due to their short-term nature.
Interest-bearing deposits
Fair value of interest-bearing deposits is estimated by discounting
cash flows based on contractual maturities of funds having similar
interest rates and similar maturities.
Long-term debt-related instruments
Fair value for long-term debt, including the guaranteed preferred
beneficial interests in the FirmÕs junior subordinated deferrable

interest debentures, is based on current market rates and is

adjusted for JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit quality.
Commitments to extend credit
JPMorgan Chase has reviewed the unfunded portion of its 
commitments to extend credit as well as its standby and other

letters of credit and, based on market prices observed at the

point of origination to extend undrawn credit, has determined

that the fair value of such financial instruments is not material.The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair
value of financial assets and liabilities valued under SFAS 107.

Accordingly, certain amounts which are not considered financial

instruments are excluded from the table. 
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
95Income (loss)Net
For the year ended December 31,(in millions)Revenue
(a)Expense(b)before income taxesincome (loss)
2001Europe/Middle East and Africa
$6,725$5,128$1,597$1,054
Asia and Pacific
1,9342,229(295)(195)
Latin America and the Caribbean
686703(17)(11)
Other433853
Total international9,3888,0981,290851
Total domestic19,66218,3861,276843
Total $29,050$26,484$2,566$1,694
2000Europe/Middle East and Africa$7,466$4,259$3,207$1,980

Asia and Pacific3,1941,9061,288837

Latin America and the Caribbean995737258153

Other4148(7)(7)
Total international11,6966,9504,7462,963
Total domestic21,23817,2513,9872,764
Total $32,934$24,201$8,733$5,727
1999Europe/Middle East and Africa$5,899$3,267$2,632$1,612

Asia and Pacific1,8531,647206137

Latin America and the Caribbean1,696794902555

Other65293621
Total international9,5135,7373,7762,325
Total domestic21,41713,7047,7135,176
Total $30,930$19,441$11,489$7,501
(a)Revenue is composed of net interest income and noninterest revenue.
(b)Expense is composed of noninterest expense and provision for loan losses.
The following table presents income statement information of
JPMorgan Chase by major geographic areas. JPMorgan Chase

defines international activities as business transactions that

involve customers residing outside the U.S., and the information

presented below is based primarily on the domicile of the cus-

tomer. However, many of the FirmÕs domestic operations service

international businesses.
As these operations are highly integrated, estimates and 
subjectiveassumptions have been made to apportion revenue and expense
between domestic and international operations. The estimates
and assumptions used to apportion revenue and expense are

consistent with the allocations used for JPMorgan ChaseÕs 

segment reporting as 
set forth in 
Note 29.  JPMorgan ChaseÕs long-lived assets for the periods presented
are not considered by management to be significant in relation
to total assets. The majority of its long-lived assets are located

domestically.
28International operations
notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
96JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
JPMorgan Chase uses SVA, operating earnings and cash operating
earnings as its principal measures of segment profitability. For a

definition of these measurements, see the Glossary of terms on

pages 100 and 101.Operating revenues and expenses directly associated with each
segment are included in determining the segmentÕs operating

earnings. Guidelines exist for assigning those remaining expenses

that are not directly incurred by the segments, such as overhead

and taxes. In addition, management has developed a risk-adjusted
Segment results and reconciliation 
(table continued on next page)Treasury &Investment Management 
Year ended December 31,
Investment BankSecurities Services& Private Banking
(in millions,except ratios)
200120001999
200120001999
200120001999
Operatingnetinterestincome
$3,092$2,596$2,507
$1,391$1,403$1,230
$547$645$549
Operating noninterestrevenue
11,89313,64411,354
2,0781,9681,818
2,3932,4721,778
Equity-related income(b)(6)161
Ñ2212
3610672
Intersegment revenue(c)(80)(293)(264)
16317196
109139100
Total revenue14,89915,96313,598
3,6323,5643,156
3,0853,3622,499
Noninterest expense8,97810,0647,878
2,5632,4892,307
2,4862,5161,958
Amortization of intangibles142937
827068
28914437
Total expense9,12010,1577,885
2,6452,5592,375
2,7752,6601,995
Operating margin
5,7795,8065,713
9871,005781
310702504
Credit costs1,155255175
848162630
Operating earnings (loss) 
before taxes4,6245,5515,538
9791,001773
294676474
Income taxes (benefit)1,8052,1422,151
361372293
113251172
Operating earnings (loss)
$2,819$3,409$3,387
$618$629$480
$181$425$302
Restructuring costsand special items(1,240)(150)(23)
(166)(61)(1)
(371)(21)Ñ
Net income (loss)1,5793,2593,364
452568479
(190)404302
Cash operating earnings (loss)
$2,945$3,486$3,392
$693$693$542
$467$567$339
Average common equity
$19,312$18,796$16,140
$2,912$2,855$2,784
$6,077$4,283$2,473
Average managed assets
(d)$511,034$471,283$452,218
$18,053$16,591$16,947
$34,149$30,472$21,419
Shareholder value added
$601$1,187$1,407
$339$344$199
$(272)$44$35
Cash return on common equity
15.1%18.3%20.7%
23.6%24.0%19.2%
7.5%13.0%13.4%
Cash overhead ratio
60%63%58%
71%70%73%
81%75%78%
(a)Corporate/reconciling items includes Support Units,Corporate and the net effect of management accounting policies.
(b)Equity-related income includes equity income of investees accounted for by the equity method.

(c)Intersegment revenue includes intercompany revenue and revenue sharing agreements,net of intersegment expenses.Transactions 
between business segments are primarily conducted at fair value.
(d)Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.The impact of securitizations on total average assets was $17,975 million
 in 2001,$18,775 million in 2000 and $17,711 million in 1999.
NM-Not meaningful
29Segment informationJPMorgan Chase is organized into five major businesses. Thesebusinesses are segmented based on the products and services

provided, or the type of customer serviced, and reflect the manner

in which financial information is evaluated by management. JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
97capital methodology that quantifies different types of risk Ð 
credit, market, operational and private equity Ð within the 

various businesses and assigns capital accordingly. The provision

for loan losses is allocated to the segments utilizing a credit risk

methodology and a risk grading system appropriate for each 

segmentÕs portfolio.
A summary of the business segment results is shown in the 
following table. The Corporate/reconciling items column reflects

revenues and expenses excluded from the determination of the
segmentÕs
operating earnings. This column includes the effects
remaining at the corporate level after the application of manage-ment accounting policies, including income tax expenses (the 
difference between the amounts allocated to business units and

JPMorgan ChaseÕs consolidated income tax expense). 
For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan ChaseÕs business
segments, see Segment results in the MD&A on pages 28 and 29.

Additionally, financial information relating to JPMorgan ChaseÕs

operations by geographic area is provided in Note 28. 
The tables below present reconciliations of the combined segment information included in the preceding table to JPMorgan ChaseÕ
s reported
revenue and net income as included in the Consolidated statement of income.Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
SegmentsÕ cash operating earnings$4,645
$6,789$7,761
Corporate/reconciling items
(507)(334)1
Consolidated cash operating earnings4,138
6,4557,762
Amortization of intangibles(729)(528)(329)
Consolidated operating earnings3,409
5,9277,433
Special items and restructuring costs 
(1,715)(200)68
Consolidated net income$1,694
$5,727$7,501
(table continued from previous page)
Retail &Middle 
Market
Corporate/ 
JPMorgan Partners
Financial Servicesreconciling items(a)Total200120001999
200120001999
200120001999
200120001999
$(335)$(309)$(163)
$6,947$6,319$6,469
$(796)$(636)$(589)
$10,846$10,018$10,003
(1,110)1,0843,247
3,9213,8033,511
40(338)(141)
19,21522,63321,567
(1)(1)Ñ
473769
(39)(38)(29)
37142125
(11)15(5)
Ñ1715
(181)(49)58
ÑÑÑ(1,457)7893,079
10,91510,17610,064
(976)(1,061)(701)
30,09832,79331,695
326405340
5,4685,2745,102
226117(42)
20,04720,86517,543
27211
181196211
845729528329
353426341
5,6495,4705,313
234121(37)
20,77621,39317,872
(1,810)3632,738
5,2664,7064,751
(1,210)(1,182)(664)
9,32211,40013,823
ÑÑÑ2,8032,0832,248
251(1)(22)
4,2332,3672,439
(1,810)3632,738
2,4632,6232,503
(1,461)(1,181)(642)
5,0899,03311,384
(641)119958
9471,024995
(905)(802)(618)
1,6803,1063,951
$(1,169)$244$1,780
$1,516$1,599$1,508
$(556)$(379)$(24)
$3,409$5,927$7,433
(21)(20)Ñ
(199)87(1)
282(35)93
(1,715)(200)68
(1,190)2241,780
1,3171,6861,507
(274)(414)69
1,6945,7277,501
$(1,148)$258$1,781
$1,688$1,785$1,707
$(507)$(334)$1
$4,138$6,455$7,762
$6,377$7,526$5,188
$8,582$8,556$8,610
$(1,736)$(5,840)$(2,264)
$41,524$36,176$32,931
$11,665$13,319$9,712
$165,432$148,283$133,306
$13,615$15,632$14,146 
$753,948$695,580$647,748
$(2,114)$(888)$987
$645$738$648
$(110)$593$428
$(911)$2,018$3,704
NM3.2%34.0%
19.5%20.6%19.5%
NMNMNM
9.8%17.6%23.2%
NM51%11%
50%52%51%
NMNMNM
67%64%55%
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
SegmentsÕ operating revenue$31,074
$33,854$32,396
Corporate/reconciling items
(976)(1,061)(701)
Consolidated operating revenue30,098
32,79331,695
Impact of securitizations(1,048)(990)(993)
Special itemsÑ1,131228
Consolidated revenue $29,050
$32,934$30,930
notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
98JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
Parent company Ð statement of income
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
IncomeDividends from subsidiaries(a)$10,554$5,404$6,049
Interest from subsidiaries2,0903,0382,474
All other income563664680
Total income$13,207$9,106$9,203
ExpenseInterest expense$2,927$3,859$3,065
Noninterest expense526922520
Total expense$3,453$4,781$3,585
Income before income tax benefitand equity in undistributed 
net income of subsidiaries9,7544,3255,618
Income tax benefit394602233
Equity in undistributed net income (loss)
of subsidiaries(8,458)8001,650
Income before effect of accounting change
1,6905,7277,501
Net effect of change in accounting principle4ÑÑNet income$1,694$5,727$7,501
(a)Includes $7,904 million from nonbank subsidiaries in 2001.
30Parent company
Parent company Ð balance sheet
December 31,(in millions)
20012000AssetsCash with banks$412$27
Deposits with banking subsidiaries
6,2398,796Securities purchased under resale agreements3441,297Trading assets1,1061,949Securities-AFS1,69265Advances to subsidiaries
36,49940,430Investment (at equity) in subsidiaries47,98946,578Other assets9,27414,203Total assets$103,555$113,345Liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
Other borrowed funds,primarily commercial paper
$20,703$25,016Other liabilities3,8056,316Long-term debt(a)37,94839,675Total liabilities62,45671,007StockholdersÕ equity41,09942,338Total liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
$103,555$113,345(a)Includes long-term debt,net of discount,with subsidiaries of $4,716 million and $4,200
million at December 31,2001 and 2000,respectively.At December 31,2001,aggregate

principal amount of all debt that contractually matures in the years 2002 through 2006

were $8,591 million,$4,923 million,$3,563 million,$2,368 million and $2,154 million,

respectively.
Parent company Ð statement of cash flows
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200120001999
Operating activities
Net income$1,694$5,727$7,501
Less Ð Net income of subsidiaries2,0966,2047,699
Parent company net loss(402)(477)(198)
Add Ð Dividends from subsidiaries10,5545,4046,049
Other,net
(926)(1,712)(296)
Net cash provided by operating activities
9,2263,2155,555
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banking subsidiaries2,557(1,907)(1,004)
Advances to subsidiaries
3,931(347)(9,506)
Investment (at equity) in subsidiaries(a)(5,303)(3,305)(1,188)
Securities purchased under resale agreements,primarily with bank subsidiaries
953372842
Investment securities(1,605)1,186(68)
Other,net
Ñ(295)(260)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities533(4,296)(11,184)
Financing activities Net change in other borrowed funds(4,313)3,1957,683
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt7,77311,1278,463
Repayments of long-term debt(10,184)(10,208)(5,126)
Proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
1,4292,2782,755
Redemption of preferred stock (511)(100)(100)
Treasury stock purchased(871)(2,950)(6,493)
Cash dividends paid(2,697)(2,282)(2,133)
Net cash (used in)provided by financing activities
(9,374)1,0605,049
Net increase (decrease) in cash with banks385(21)(580)
Cash with banks at the beginning of the year2748628
Cash with banks at the end of the year,primarily with bank subsidiaries
$412$27$48
Cash interest paid$3,411$3,927$3,048
Taxes paid (refund received)$(250)$1,694$448
(a)Includes investment in Flemings and Beacon in 2000 and investment in H&Q in 1999.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
99supplementary informationSelected quarterly financial data (unaudited)As of or for the period ended20012000(in millions,except per share and ratio data) 
4th3rd2nd1st
4th3rd2nd1st
REPORTED BASIS
Revenue$6,577$7,349$6,871$8,253
$8,543$7,723$7,899$8,769
Noninterest expense (excluding restructuring costs)4,8365,0595,2835,598
5,7425,2735,0255,353
Merger and restructuring costs841876478328
1,3027950Ñ
Provision for loan losses1,468745525447
409298328342
Net income (loss)$(332)$449$378$1,199
$708$1,398$1,633$1,988
Net income (loss)per share:
(a)Basic$(0.18)$0.22$0.18$0.60
$0.36$0.73$0.87$1.06
Diluted(0.18)0.220.180.58
0.340.690.831.01
Return on average common equity
NM4.17%3.45%11.58%
6.77%14.65%19.12%23.82%
Cash dividends declared per share $0.34$0.34$0.34$0.34
$0.32$0.32$0.32$0.32
Book value per share
20.3221.1520.8121.17
21.1720.9819.1918.49
Return on average assets
NM0.24%0.21%0.67%
0.40%0.81%0.98%1.23%
Total assets$693,575$799,300$712,702$713,624
$715,348$707,497$662,368$676,046
Long-term debt
(b)43,62246,75445,35647,048
47,23849,57348,21749,513
Total stockholdersÕ equity41,09942,73542,42643,366
42,33841,40236,63535,596
Share price
(a)High$40.95$46.01$50.60$59.19
$48.13$58.38$62.00$67.17
Low31.3029.0439.2137.58
32.3844.5644.1345.50
Close36.3534.15 44.6044.90
45.4446.1946.0658.13
OPERATING BASIS
(c)Including JPMP(d)Revenue$6,841$7,619$7,144$8,494
$7,575$7,913$8,282$9,023
Noninterest expense4,8365,0595,2835,598
5,7425,2735,0255,353
Credit costs(e)1,7321,015798688
667534570596
Earnings$247$1,036$690$1,436
$763$1,419$1,757$1,988
Earnings per share Ð diluted(a)0.120.510.330.70
0.370.700.891.01
Return on average common equity
2.23%9.78%6.45%13.91%
7.31%14.87%20.60%23.82%
Common dividend payout ratio
2926610248
85423329
Cash operating basis(f)Cash earnings$434$1,218$873$1,613
$949$1,576$1,849$2,081
Cash earnings per share Ð diluted(a)0.210.600.420.78
0.460.780.941.06
Shareholder value added
(837)(50)(394)370
(290)4268141,068
Cash return on average common equity
4.01%11.52%8.21%15.65%
9.14%16.54%21.69%24.95%
Cash overhead ratio
68647164
73656058
OPERATING BASIS
(c)Excluding JPMP(d)Revenue$7,286$7,798$8,037$8,434
$7,711$7,986$7,888$8,419
Earnings5981,1981,3191,463
9071,545 1,5531,678
Earnings per share Ð diluted(a)0.290.590.640.71
0.440.770.79 0.85
Return on average common equity
6.54%13.26%14.84%17.11%
10.75%20.45%23.50%25.92%
Cash operating basis(f)Cash earnings$780$1,375$1,497$1,634
$1,088$1,697$1,643$1,769
Cash earningsper share Ð diluted
(a)0.380.670.730.80
0.530.850.840.90
Cash return on average common equity
8.57%15.24%16.86%19.14%
12.93%22.48%24.87%27.35%
Cash overhead ratio
63626363
71636261
(a)JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.Share-related data have been rest
ated to reflect a three-for-two stock split effective as of
the close of business on June 9,2000.
(b)Includes Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the FirmÕs junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures.

(c)Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations,merger and restructuring costs,special items and the net effect of a chan
ge in accounting principle.For a list of special items,see Glossary 
of terms on page 101.(d) JPMP represents JPMorgan Partners,JPMorgan ChaseÕs private equity investment business.See pages 36 and 37 for JPMPÕs result
s.(e) Includes provision for loan losses and credit costs related to the securitized credit card portfolio.

(f) Excludes the impact of the amortization of intangibles.

NM-Not meaningful
notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
100JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
Glossary of termsAsset capital tax:The tax which is included in each of the busi-ness unitÕs capital charge, recognizing the need for the Firm to

maintain certain capital ratios to meet bank regulatory definitions

of Òwell capitalized.Ó Basis point value (ÒBPVÓ):This measurement quantifies the
change in the market value of JPMorgan ChaseÕs assets and 

liabilities (that are not part of its trading activities) that would

result from a one basis point change in interest rates or one basis
point widening of interest rate spreads. 
BPV shows whether anincrease of 1/100 of 1% (or one basis point) in a market rate will yield

a profit or loss, and of what magnitude. 
CAGR:ÒCompound annual growth rate.Ó 
Cash operating earnings:
Operating earnings excluding the
impact of the amortization of intangibles. Cash overhead ratio:Noninterest expense, excluding amortiza-
tion of intangibles, as a percentage of the total of net interest

income and noninterest revenue (excluding merger and restruc-

turing costs and special items). Credit derivatives
are contractual agreements that provide
insurance against a credit event of one or more referenced credits.

The nature of the credit event is established by the buyer and

seller at the inception of the transaction, and such events include
bankruptcy, insolvency and failure to meet payment obligations

when due. The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee

in return for a contingent payment by the seller (insurer) following

a credit event. 
Credit risk:
The risk of loss due to borrower 
or counterpartydefault.  Cross-currency interest rate swaps
are contracts that generally
involve the exchange of both interest and principal amounts in two

different currencies. Also see interest rate swaps in this glossary.
Debt, equity, commodity and other contracts
include swapsand options and are similar to interest rate contracts except the

underlying instrument is debt-, equity- or commodity-related.
FASB:Financial Accounting Standards Board. 
Foreign currency options
are similar to interest rate options
except they are based on foreign exchange rates. Also see interest

rate options in this glossary.
Foreign exchange contracts
are contracts that provide for the
future receipt or delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed-

upon terms.
Forward rate agreements
are contracts to exchange payments
on a specified future date, based on a market change in interest

rates from trade date to contract settlement date.
Interest rate futures and forwards
are contracts for the
delayed delivery of securities or money market instruments. The
selling party agrees to deliver, on a specified future date, a speci-

fied instrument at a specified price or yield. Interest rate options
, including caps and floors, are contracts 
to modify interest rate risk in exchange for the payment of a 

premium when the contract is initiated. As a writer of interest

rate options, JPMorgan Chase receives a premium in exchange for
bearing the risk of unfavorable changes in interest rates. Conversely,

as a purchaser of an option, JPMorgan Chase pays a premium for

the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a financial instru-
ment or currency at predetermined terms in the future. 
Interest rate swaps
are contracts in which a series of interest
rate flows in a single currency is exchanged over a prescribed

period. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of deriva-

tive contract that JPMorgan Chase uses in its A/L activities. An
example of a situation in which JPMorgan Chase would utilize 
an interest rate swap would be to convert its fixed-rate debt to a

variable rate. By entering into the swap, the principal amount of
the debt would remain unchanged, but the interest streams

would change. Investment grade equivalent:JPMorgan ChaseÕs internal 
risk assessment which generally represents a risk profile similar to

that of a BBB-/Baa3 or better rating as defined by independent
rating agencies, such as Standard & PoorÕs or MoodyÕs. 
Liquidity risk:The risk of being unable to fund JPMorganChaseÕs portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates,

and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely
manner at a reasonable price. 
Managed credit card receivables or managed basis:
JPMorgan Chase uses this terminology to refer to its credit card

receivables on the balance sheet plus securitized credit card
receivables. Mark-to-market exposure:
Mark-to-market exposure is a 
measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign

exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market
is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan Chase
and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for JPMorgan Chase.

When the mark-to-market is negative, JPMorgan Chase owes 
the counterparty. In this situation, JPMorgan Chase does not

have repayment risk. 
Market risk:The potential loss in value of portfolios and financialinstruments caused by movements in market variables, such as
interest and foreign-exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity

and commodity prices. Merger:The term refers to the December 31, 2000 merger of 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation and J.P. Morgan & Co.

Incorporated. Net yield on interest-earning assets:
The average rate forinterest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources

of funds. JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 
101Operating basis or operating earnings:
Reported results
excluding the impact of merger and restructuring costs, special

items and credit card securitizations. 
Operational risk:The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or
failed processes or systems, human factor, or external events. 
SFAS:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS 107:
ÒDisclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments.Ó
SFAS 109:
ÒAccounting for Income Taxes.Ó 
SFAS 114:
ÒAccounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan.Ó 
SFAS 115:
ÒAccounting for Certain Investments in Debt andEquity Securities.Ó SFAS 123:
ÒAccounting for Stock-Based Compensation.Ó SFAS 128:
ÒEarnings per Share.Ó 
SFAS 133:
ÒAccounting for Derivative Instruments and HedgingActivities.Ó SFAS 140:
ÒAccounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities Ð a replacement of FASB

Statement No. 125.Ó SFAS 141:
ÒBusiness Combinations.Ó SFAS 142:
ÒGoodwill and Other Intangible Assets.Ó Shareholder value added (ÒSVAÓ):
Represents cash operating
earnings minus preferred dividends and an explicit charge for

capital. Six sigma:Represents a business management approach that
enables firms to improve the quality of products and services

delivered to clients through understanding client priorities, and

then eliminating process defects and failures. ÒSigmaÕsÓ (or 

standard deviations) are statistical measures of the defects or 

failures generated by a business process. 
Special items:All amounts are on a pre-tax basis. There were
no special items in 2001. Special items in 2000 include a gain

on the sale of the Hong Kong retail banking business ($827 

million), a gain from the transfer of Euroclear-related business

($399 million), gain from the sale of the Panama operations 

($81 million) and loss resulting from the economic hedge of the

purchase price of Flemings prior to its acquisition ($176 million).

The 1999 special items were interest income from prior-yearsÕ 

tax refunds ($62 million), gains from sales of nonstrategic assets

($166 million) and a special contribution to The Chase Manhattan

Foundation ($100 million). In 1998, special items were interest

income from prior-yearsÕ tax refunds ($191 million), sale of a

global trust and agency services business ($131 million), sale of
an investment management business in Australia ($56 million)
and costs incurred for accelerated vesting of stock-based incentive

awards ($37 million). In 1997, special items were gains on the

sales of JPMorgan ChaseÕs remaining interests in The CIT Group

Holdings, Inc. ($58 million) and a partially owned foreign invest-

ment ($44 million), as well as costs incurred for accelerated 

vesting of stock-based incentive awards ($135 million).  
Stress testing:
Discloses market risk under plausible events inabnormal markets. Value-at-risk (ÒVARÓ):
A measure of the dollar amount of
potential loss from adverse market moves in an everyday market

environment. 
102JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report community advisory board
Janie Barrera
President & CEO

ACCION Texas

San Antonio, TX Florence E. Baugh
Director

Neighborhood Services
Community Action Organization 
of Erie County
Buffalo, NY 
Pascual BlancoExecutive Director

La Fuerza Unida de Glen Cove
Glen Cove, NY Sylvia K. Brooks
President & CEO

Houston Area Urban League

Houston, TX James BuckleyExecutive Director

University Neighborhood 
Housing Program

Bronx, NY 
Joseph M. CarbonePresident & COO

The WorkPlace, Inc.

Bridgeport, CT  Edwina P. Carrington
Chief Executive Officer

Texas Housing Finance CorporationAustin, TX  David ChenExecutive Director

Chinese American Planning Council
New York, NY 
William Clark
President & CEO

Urban League of Rochester
Rochester, NY 
Frederick A. Davie, Jr.
Vice President 
Faith-Based Programs

Public/Private Ventures

Philadelphia, PA
Harold DeRienzo
President & CEO

Parodneck Foundation for Self-Help

Housing & Community Development
New York, NY
William Frey
Vice President & Director
New York City Office

Enterprise Foundation
New York, NY 
David GallagherExecutive Director

Center for Neighborhood 
Economic Development
Long Island City, NY 
Luther GatlingPresident

Budget & Credit Counseling Services

New York, NY
Ernest Gonzalez
Corporate Chair
Long Island Hispanic 
Chamber of Commerce

Holbrook, NY
Colvin GrannumPresident

Bedford-Stuyvesant 

Restoration Corporation
Brooklyn, NY
Roy HastickPresident & CEO

Caribbean American Chamber 
of Commerce & Industry

Brooklyn, NY 
Lynda Ireland
Executive Director

New York/New Jersey 

Minority Purchasing Council

New York, NY 
Kim Jacobs
Executive Director

Hudson Valley Affordable 

Housing Finance Corporation
Hawthorne, NY 
Marc Jahr
Vice President
New York City Local Initiatives

Support Corporation
New York, NY
Erma C. Johnson HadleyVice ChancellorTarrant County CollegeFort Worth, TX  
Francine JustaExecutive Director

Neighborhood Housing Services 
of New York City

New York, NY 
Christopher KuiExecutive Director

Asian Americans for Equality
New York, NY 
The Community Advisory Board was formed in 1991 to provide advice and counsel in the areas of Housing, Economic Development, Fa
ith-BasedCommunity Development and Human Services. The 47 members are senior officials of major not-for-profit organizations in the comm
unities they serve.The Board meets quarterly and has proven invaluable to the Firm in the fulfillment of its community development mission.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 103
Martha LewinDirector

WomenRisingJersey City, NJ
William Linder
Chief Executive Officer

New Community Corporation
Newark, NJ Fred Lucas
President & CEO

Faith Center for Community
Development, Inc.
New York, NY
John MadeoPresident

Fairfield 2000 Homes Corporation
Southport, CT Ghebre Selassie Mehreteab
President & CEO

The NHP Foundation
Washington, DC  Luis MirandaChairman
Audubon Partnership 
for Economic Development
New York, NY  
James MorgoPresident

Long Island Housing Partnership
Hauppauge, NYDavid PaganExecutive Director

Southside United Housing 
Development Fund Corporation
Brooklyn, NY
James PaleyExecutive Director

Neighborhood Housing Services 
of New Haven
New Haven, CT Karen Phillips
Chief Executive Officer

Abyssinian Development Corporation
New York, NY 
Ralph PorterPresident

MBD Community Housing Corporation
Bronx, NY 
Edwin ReedChief Financial Officer

Allen AME Church

Jamaica, NY Marcos Ronquillo
General Partner
The Ronquillo Law Firm, P.C.

Dallas, TX  Clifford Rosenthal
Executive Director

National Federation of Community
Development Credit Unions

New York, NY 
Winston A. RossExecutive Director

Westchester Community Opportunity Program

Elmsford, NY  
David ScheckExecutive Director

New Jersey Community Loan Fund
Trenton, NJRoberta Schofield
Executive Director

Salvation Army
Syracuse, NY Carlisle Towery
President

Greater Jamaica 

Development Corporation
Jamaica, NY Terry Troia
Executive Director

Project Hospitality

Staten Island, NY Reginald Tuggle
Pastor
Memorial Presbyterian Church

Roosevelt, NY Donna Wertenbach
President

Community Economic Development Fund
Hartford, CT  
Lloyd WilliamsPresident & CEO

Greater Harlem Chamber of Commerce

New York, NY 
Kathryn WyldePresident & CEO

New York City Partnership and

New York City Investment Fund

New York, NY 
Johnny Ray Youngblood
Senior Pastor
St. Paul Community Baptist Church

Brooklyn, NY 
104JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report Philip C. Ackerman
Chairman, President

and Chief Executive Officer

National Fuel Gas CompanyRichard A. Bernstein
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

R.A.B. Holdings, Inc.Robert B. CatellChairman and Chief Executive Officer

KeySpan CorporationJoseph P. Clayton
President and Chief Executive Officer

Sirius Satellite Radio Inc.Eugene R. Corasanti
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

CONMED CorporationCharles F. Fortgang
Chairman
M. Fabrikant & Sons, Inc.Arnold B. Glimcher
Chairman
PaceWildenstein
Lewis GolubChairman of the Board

The Golub CorporationWallace A. GrahamChairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

Schenectady International, Inc.
Joel J. Horowitz
Chief Executive Officer

Tommy Hilfiger CorporationThomas H. Jackson
President

University of RochesterPeter J. KalletChairman, President 

and Chief Executive Officer

Oneida Ltd.Dr. Shirley Strum Kenny
President

Stony Brook University
Charles A. KrasnePresident and Chief Executive Officer

Krasdale Foods, Inc.Richard S. LeFrak
President

Lefrak Organization, Inc.Leo LiebowitzPresident and Chief Executive Officer

Getty Realty Corp.Brian J. Lipke
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Gibraltar Steel CorporationKenneth LipperChairman
Lipper & Company, L.P.
William L. Mack
Founder and Managing Partner
Apollo Real Estate Advisors, L.P.
Theodore Markson
Chairman
Paris Accessories, Inc.Herman I. Merinoff
Chairman of the Executive Committee
Charmer Industries, Inc.John MorphyVice President and Chief Financial Officer
Paychex, Inc.Dennis M. MullenPresident and Chief Executive Officer

Agrilink Foods, Inc.Michael C. NahlSenior Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Albany International Corp.
Samuel I. Newhouse III
Advance PublicationsThomas S. Richards
Chairman, President 

and Chief Executive Officer

Rochester Gas & Electric Corporation 
RGS Energy Group, Inc.
William C. RudinPresident

Rudin Management Company, Inc.
John ShalamChairman and Chief Executive Officer

Audiovox CorporationArthur T. Shorin
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

The Topps Company, Inc.
Charles R. Trego, Jr.
Executive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Rich Products Corporation
Kenneth L. Wallach
Chairman, President 

and Chief Executive Officer

Central National-Gottesman Inc.Fred Wilpon
Chairman
Sterling Equities, Inc.Judith D. ZukPresident and Chief Executive Officer

Brooklyn Botanic Garden
The heritage Chase, Chemical and Manufacturers Hanover institutions each had long-standing regional advisory boards. In late 20
01, the Metropolitan
Regional Advisory Board and the Northeast Regional Advisory Board were combined into the newly created Regional Advisory Board.
 The Board is 
composed of a diverse group of prominent regional business people who offer advice and counsel to senior management on market s
trategies for providing consumer and commercial products and services to the regional banking sector, as well as insight on JPMorgan Chase's 
role and responsibility 
in the community.
regional advisory board
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 105
national advisory board
J.T. Battenberg III
Chairman of the Board, 

Chief Executive Officer and President

Delphi Automotive SystemsRichard I. Beattie, Esq.
Chairman, Executive Committee
Simpson Thacher & BartlettLeon D. Black
Founding Partner
Apollo Management, L.P.
Richard J. Bressler
Senior Executive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Viacom Inc.David F. DeVoe
Chief Financial Officer

News CorporationWilliam T. Dillard II
Chief Executive Officer

Dillard Department Stores, Inc.
Archie W. Dunham
Chairman, President

and Chief Executive Officer

Conoco Inc.Charles E. GoldenExecutive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Eli Lilly and CompanyJohn B. HessChairman of the Board

and Chief Executive Officer

Amerada Hess CorporationThomas O. HicksChairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Incorporated
John W. Kluge
Chairman and President

Metromedia Company
Thomas H. LeeChairman and Chief Executive Officer

The Thomas H. Lee Partners, LPDavid C. McCourtChairman and Chief Executive Officer

RCN CorporationDarla D. Moore
President

Rainwater, Inc.
J. Pedro Reinhard
Executive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

The Dow Chemical CompanyJoseph L. Rice IIIChairman
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc.Frederic V. Salerno
Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
Verizon CommunicationsStephen A. SchwarzmanPresident and Chief Executive Officer

The Blackstone Group
David L. ShedlarzExecutive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer 

Pfizer Inc.Henry R. SilvermanChairman, President 

and Chief Executive Officer

Cendant CorporationScott D. Sullivan
Chief Financial Officer

WorldCom, Inc.Mortimer B. ZuckermanChairman
Boston Properties, Inc.
The heritage Chase National Advisory Board was established in 1986. The JPMorgan National Advisory Board is composed of a geogr
aphically and functionally diverse group of prominent business executives. The Board meets twice a year and provides a forum to discuss c
urrent business issues 
and to exchange ideas for the purpose of offering advice, counsel and business development expertise to senior management of JP
Morgan on the investment bankÕs affairs in the United States.
106JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report JPMorgan international council
The heritage Chase and J.P. Morgan international advisory councils were established in 1965 and 1967, respectively. With the cr
eation of J.P. Morgan
Chase & Co., a new council drawing on the membership of the two predecessor councils was formed in January 2001. The JPMorgan I
nternational
Council, like its predecessors, is composed of business leaders and prominent individuals from public life and advises senior m
anagement on matters relating to the FirmÕs global business. The Council meets approximately every eight months to discuss relevant issues of intern
ational concern and interest.
Early in 2001, David J. OÕReilly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ChevronTexaco Corp., joined the Council. At year-end,
 The Rt. Hon. The Lord
Howe of Aberavon and Peter K.C. Woo retired from the Council.
‡Hon. George P. Shultz
Chairman of the Council
Distinguished Fellow
Hoover Institution, Stanford University
Stanford, California
Mohammed Ali AbalkhailFormer Minister of Finance & Economy
Riyadh, Saudi ArabiaGiovanni AgnelliHonorary Chairman
FIAT S.p.A.

Turin, ItalyJean-Louis Beffa
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Compagnie de Saint-Gobain
Paris-La D”fense, FranceBill BradleyAllen & Company
New York, New York
Martin FeldsteinPresident and Chief Executive Officer

National Bureau of Economic Research Inc.

Cambridge, MassachusettsFritz GerberHonorary Chairman
Roche Holding Ltd.
Basel, SwitzerlandClaudio X. GonzalezDirector General

Kimberly-Clark de M”xico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico City, Mexico
Sir Christopher HoggChairman
Reuters Group PLC

London, United KingdomAlain A. JolyChairman of the Supervisory Board

LÕAir Liquide S.A.Paris, FranceKaren Katen
President, Global Pharmaceuticals

Pfizer Inc.
New York, New York
Hon. Henry A. Kissinger
Chairman
Kissinger Associates, Inc.
New York, New York
Yotaro Kobayashi
Chairman of the Board

Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.

Tokyo, JapanRahmi M. Ko“Chairman-Board of Directors

Ko“ Holding A.S.
Istanbul, Turkey
Hon. Lee Kuan Yew
Senior Minister
Republic of Singapore 

Singapore
Antonio Madero
Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Officer

SANLUIS CorporaciŠn, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico City, Mexico
Roberto Irineu MarinhoVice President
Organiza“łes Globo
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
The Rt. Hon. Brian Mulroney
Senior Partner
Ogilvy Renault
Montreal, Canada
Shijuro Ogata
Former Deputy Governor 

for International Relations

Bank of Japan
Tokyo, JapanDavid J. OÕReillyChairman and Chief Executive Officer

ChevronTexaco Corp.

San Francisco, California
John B. Prescott, A.C.
Executive Chairman
Australian Submarine Corporation Pty Ltd.
South AustraliaDavid RockefellerFormer Chairman 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.
New York, New York
empp
Chairman of the Board of Management

DaimlerChrysler A.G.
Stuttgart, GermanyWalter V. Shipley
Former Chairman of the Board

The Chase Manhattan Corporation
New York, New York
Jess S¿derbergPartner and Chief Executive Officer

A.P. M¿ller

Copenhagen, DenmarkWilliam S. Stavropoulos
Chairman of the Board

The Dow Chemical Company
Midland, MichiganRatan Naval Tata
Chairman 
Tata Sons LimitedMumbai, IndiaMarco Tronchetti Provera
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pirelli S.p.A.

Milan, ItalyCees J.A. van LedeChairman, Board of Management

Akzo Nobel
Arnhem, The Netherlands
Douglas A. Warner III
Former Chairman of the Board

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

New York, New York
L.R. Wilson, O.C.Chairman of the Board

Nortel Networks Corporation
Brampton, Canada Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala
President

Ayala CorporationMakati City, Philippines
Frederick H.S. Allen
Executive Secretary of the Council

New York, New York
Ex-Officio Member
William B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report 107
international locations
ArgentinaBuenos Aires
AustraliaAdelaide
Brisbane
Buderim
Canberra
Gold Coast
Melbourne

Perth
SydneyAustriaVienna BahamasNassauBahrainManamaBelgiumBrusselsBrazilRio de Janeiro

S‰o PauloCanadaCalgary
Montreal

TorontoVancouverCayman IslandsGeorgetownChannel IslandsJerseyChileSantiagoChina (PeopleÕs Republic of)

Beijing
Hong Kong
Shanghai
Shenzhen 
TianjinColombiaBogot⁄Czech RepublicPragueEgyptCairo
FranceParisGermanyBerlin
Frankfurt
MunichGreece
PiraeusIndiaMumbai
New DelhiIndonesiaJakartaIreland
DublinIsraelTel Aviv
ItalyMilan
RomeJapanOsaka
TokyoLebanonBeirutLuxembourgMalaysiaKuala Lumpur
Labuan
SelangorMexicoMexico City
Monterrey
The NetherlandsAmsterdam
New ZealandAucklandNigeriaLagosNorwayOsloPakistanKarachiPeruLimaPhilippinesManilaPolandWarsawPortugalLisbonRussian FederationMoscowSingapore

South AfricaCape Town

Johannesburg
PietermaritzburgSouth Korea
SeoulSpainBarcelona

Bilbao
Madrid
Pamplona
Seville
ValenciaSri LankaColomboSwedenStockholm SwitzerlandGeneva
ZurichTai
wanPan Chiao City
TaipeiThailandBangkokTurkeyIstanbulUnited KingdomBournemouth 

Edinburgh 
Essex 
Glasgow 
Isle of Man
LondonUzbekistanTashkentVenezuelaCaracasVietnamHanoi
Ho Chi Minh City108JPMorgan Chase2001Annual Report J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Corporate headquarters270 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017-2070

Telephone: 212-270-6000http://www.jpmorganchase.com
Principal subsidiariesJPMorgan Chase BankChase Manhattan Bank USA, National AssociationJ.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 
Annual report on Form 10-K

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. as filed with the

Securities and Exchange Commission will
be made available upon request to:
Office of the Secretary
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 

270 Park Avenue

New York, New York 10017-2070
Stock listingNew York Stock Exchange, Inc.
London Stock Exchange Limited
Tokyo Stock ExchangeThe New York Stock Exchange ticker sym-
bols for stock of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

are as follows: 
JPM (Common Stock)JPM pfr A (Adjustable Rate Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series A)
JPM pfr H (Depositary Shares Each
Representing a One-Tenth Interest in 

6 5/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock)
JPM pfr L (Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series L)
JPM pfr N (Adjustable Rate Preferred 
Stock, Series N)Financial information about J.P. Morgan
Chase & Co. can be accessed by 
visiting the investor relations site of 

www.jpmorganchase.com. Additional

questions should be addressed to:
Investor RelationsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 

270 Park Avenue

New York, New York 10017-2070

Telephone: 212-270-6000Transfer agent and registrar
Mellon Investor Services LLCOverpeck Center
85 Challenger Road
Ridgefield Park, New Jersey 07660-2108
Telephone: 1-800-758-4651https://vault.mellon-investor.com/isd
Stockholder inquiriesContact Mellon Investor Services LLC:By telephone:   

Within the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico: 1-800-758-4651 
(toll free)
From all other locations: 
1-201-329-8660 (collect) TDD service for the hearing impaired
within the United States, Canada and 
Puerto Rico: 1-800-231-5469 (toll free) 
All other locations: 1-201-329-8354 (collect)By mail:
Mellon Investor Services LLCOverpeck Center
85 Challenger Road
Ridgefield Park, New Jersey 07660Dividend reinvestment plan
Shareholders of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
may use their dividends to purchase

shares of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 

common stock through the Dividend

Reinvestment Plan. A prospectus 

and enrollment card may be obtained by 

calling 1-800-758-4651 or by writing to
Mellon Investor Services LLC, the 
reinvestment agent for the plan, at theaddress indicated above.  
Direct deposit of dividends
For information about direct deposit of
dividends, please contact Mellon Investor
Services LLC.Duplicate mailingsIf you receive duplicate mailings because
you have more than one account listing,

you may wish to save J.P. Morgan Chase

& Co. money by consolidating your
accounts. Please write to the agent at the
address above.
Independent accountants
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP1177 Avenue of the Americas

New York, New York 10036
