22Dear Fellow Shareholders,
Seven years ago, the world was shaken by the global ˜nancial crisis. And since then, 
our company has been dealing with extraordinary challenges as a result of that crisis. 
We have endured an unprecedented economic, political and social storm Š the impact 
of which will continue to be felt for years and possibly decades to come. What is 
most striking to me, in spite of all the turmoil, is that our company became safer and 
stronger Š and it never stopped supporting clients, communities and the growth of 
economies around the world. 
I feel extraordinarily privileged to work for this great company with such talented 
people. Our management team and our employees do outstanding work every single 
day Š sometimes under enormous pressure Š while dealing with an extreme number 
of complex business and regulatory issues. The way our people and our ˜rm are 
able to address our challenges and admit our mistakes while continuing to grow our 
businesses and support our clients ˜lls me with pride. 
Jamie Dimon,  Chairman and 
 Chief Executive O˚cer
33˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚ˆ˜˚˚ˇ˜˚˚˘˜˚˚˝˜˚˛˝
˜˙˛˝ˆ
˜ˇ˛˝
˜ˆ˛˘˝
˜˙˚˛˚
˜˚˛
˜˙˝˛˚
˜˚˛˘˘
˜˝
˜˙˛˘˝
˜˙˙˛
˜ˆ˛ˆ
˜˙˚
˜˘˛
˜˙
˜˚˛˚ˇ
˜ˆ˙˛˘
˜˝
˜˙
˜˚
˜ˆ˙˛ˇ
˜˝
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˝˝˝˝˝˜˜˜˜˜Our company earned a record $21.8 billion in net income on revenue
1 of $97.9 billion in 
2014. In fact, we have delivered record results in the last four out of ˜ve years, and we 
hope to continue to deliver in the future. Our ˜nancial results re˚ected strong underlying 
performance across our businesses. Over the course of last year, our four franchises 
maintained Š and even strengthened Š our leadership positions and continued to gain 
market share, improve customer satisfaction and foster innovation. We also continued 
to deliver on our many commitments Š including business simpli˜cation, regulatory 
requirements, controls, expense discipline and capital requirements.
Earnings and Diluted Earnings per Share
 2004Œ2014
 ($ in billions, except diluted EPS)
 ˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚ˆ˜˚˚ˇ˜˚˚˘˜˚˚˝˜˚˛˝˙˛
˜˚ˆ˝ˇ˛
˜˚˘˝˘˘
˝ˆ

˝
˝˚˘
˜˙˙˝ˆ
˜˙˘˝
˝˘˚
˜ˇˇ˝ˆ
Tangible Book Value per Share
 2004Œ2014
 1 Represents managed revenue
44We believe that, in 2014, we continued to deliver for our shareholders. The table above 
shows the growth in tangible book value per share, which we believe is a conservative 
measure of value. You can see that the tangible book value per share has grown far 
more than the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500) in both time periods. For Bank 
One shareholders since March 27, 2000, the stock has performed far better than most 
˜nancial companies and the S&P 500. And since the JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger with 
Bank One on July 1, 2004, we have performed well versus other ˜nancial companies 
and slightly below the S&P 500. The details are shown in the table below. 
Bank One/JPMorgan Chase & Co. tangible book value per share performance vs. S&P 500
Bank One(A)S&P 500 (B)Relative Results
(A) Š (B)Performance since becoming CEO of Bank One 
(3/27/2000Œ12/31/2014)(a):Compounded annual gain
12.7% 5.3% 7.4%Overall gain
434.9%105.1%329.8%JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(A)S&P 500(B)Relative Results
(A) Š (B)Performance since the Bank One 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger
(7/1/2004Œ12/31/2014):Compounded annual gain
14.1%8.0%6.1%Overall gain
300.5%124.5%176.0%Tangible book value over time captures the company™s use of capital, balance sheet and profitability. In this chart, we are looking at 
heritage Bank One shareholders and JPMorgan Chase & Co. shareholders. The chart shows the increase in tangible book value per share; 
it is an aftertax number assuming all dividends were retained vs. the S&P 500 (a pretax number with dividends reinvested).
(a) On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One
Stock total return analysis
Bank OneS&P 500S&P Financials Index
Performance since becoming CEO of Bank One 
(3/27/2000Œ12/31/2014)(a):Compounded annual gain
10.4%4.0% 2.2%Overall gain
328.3%78.8%37.4%JPMorgan Chase & Co.
S&P 500S&P Financials Index
Performance since the Bank One 
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger
(7/1/2004Œ12/31/2014):Compounded annual gain
7.5%8.0%0.9%Overall gain
113.3%124.5%9.5%This chart shows actual returns of the stock, with dividends included, for heritage shareholders of Bank One and JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
vs. the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500) and the Standard & Poor™s Financials Index (S&P Financials Index).
(a) On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One
55However, our stock performance has not been particularly good in the last ˜ve years. 
While the business franchise has become stronger, I believe that legal and regulatory 
costs and 
future uncertainty
 regarding legal and regulatory costs have hurt our 
company and the value of our stock and have led to a price/earnings ratio lower 
than some of our competitors. We are determined to limit (we can never completely 
eliminate them) our legal costs over time, and as we do, we expect that the strength 
and quality of the underlying business will shine through.
JPMorgan Chase continued to support consumers and businesses and make a 
signi˜cant positive impact on our communities. In 2014, the ˜rm 
provided credit 
and raised capital of more than $2.1 trillion for our clients
. The ˜rm also has hired 
nearly 8,700 military veterans since 2011 as a proud founding member of the 100,000 
Jobs Mission, which recently has increased the goal to 300,000 jobs. Our ˜rm was 
there to help small businesses Š we 
provided $19 billion of credit to U.S. small 
businesses, which allowed them to develop new products, expand operations and 
hire more workers. In total, we 
provided $197 billion of credit to consumers
. And we provided credit and raised capital of 
more than $75 billion for nonpro˜t and 
government entities, including states, municipalities, hospitals and universities
. Our strength allows us to be there for our clients and communities in good times Š 
and, more important, in bad times. In the face of many di˛cult challenges, we never 
stopped doing our job, and we demonstrated that the work we do matters. And we also 
continue to build our business by investing in infrastructure, systems, technology and 
new products and by adding bankers and branches around the world. 
New and Renewed Credit and Capital for Clients
at December 31
,˜˚˛˝˚˛
˘

˜˙˛˘˘
˜
˘

˘ˆ
†˚˛ˆ’˙’ˇ

˘
˘•
˘
˘˜’
…………—ˇ˙˛–˚ƒˇ˛–’ˇ
……

˜˚˛˝˙˜˚˛ˆˆ˚˛˛ˆ˚ˇ˛
˜˚˛ˇ˛
˜˚˛˘˛

˜˚˛˚
˜˝˝˙˜˚˛
˜˚˛˙˝˜
˜˝ˆˇ
˚
˜˝˘ˇ
˚˛ˇ
˜


˜
Corporate clients
($ in trillions)Consumer and Commercial Banking 
($ in billions)66In this letter, I will discuss the issues highlighted below. I also encourage you to read 
the letters written by several of our business leaders about our main businesses, our 
critical operations and controls, and some of our corporate responsibility e˝orts. 
As usual, this letter will describe some of our successes and opportunities, as well as 
our challenges and issues. The main sections of the letter are as follows: 
I. We have an outstanding franchise Š our company has emerged as an endgame 
winner, but we need to earn it every day 
II. We build for the long term Š we manage through-the-cycle, and we always are 
prepared for the toughest of times
III. We will successfully navigate the new global ˜nancial architecture (and we are 
well on our way to having fortress controls)
IV.
 We have a solid strategy and believe our future outlook is very good Š but, as 
usual, there still are a lot of things to think and worry about 
V.
 We have a fully engaged board, an exceptional management team and a strong 
corporate culture
Our clients also exhibit their faith in us by entrusting us to take care of their money Š 
either as deposits or as client assets entrusted to us Š as shown in the chart below.
Assets Entrusted to Us by Our Clients
at December 31
,˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˙˘˘˘


˙˘

†‘˚

˜˚˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˝˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ

˙









˜

˙˙
˜†˘˘
˘˘
˜
(a)  Represent assets under management as 
 well as custody, brokerage, administration 
 and deposit accounts
(b)  Represents activities associated with the 
 safekeeping and servicing of assets
77If you think back 10, 20 or 30 years ago, my 
predecessors and I struggled to try to build 
a great company, which we hoped would 
emerge as an endgame winner. The ultimate 
outcome was unclear Œ and many competitors 
did not survive (this is true for most large-
scale consolidating industries). Even for those 
of us that did, it was quite a struggle. Today, 
it is clear that our company is an endgame 
winner Œ both in the United States and glob-ally Œ which is invaluable in 
any industry. And 
while we have had some di˜cult times since 
the ˚nancial crisis, the power of the franchise 
has shone through. We also know that future 
success is not guaranteed Œ only consistently 
good management over a long period of time 
can ensure long-term success in any business. 
But we certainly are in a very good place.
We have delivered good multi-year ˜nancial 
results (strong margins and returns and 
low volatility) and have shown a great 
ability to adapt to changes Š both from the 
marketplace and the regulatory environment
We always compare our margins and returns 
with those of our best competitors in each 
business. The chart below, which is very 
similar to a chart we showed at our Investor 
Day, shows some of these numbers for 2014. 
We believe that the right discipline is to 
compare each of our businesses against 
its best competitor. It is a mistake just to look 
at the consolidated numbers and compare them Œ every company has a di˛erent mix of 
businesses. The chart below also shows how 
our businesses compare in terms of margins, 
I.WE HAVE AN OUTSTANDING FRANCHISE Š OUR 
COMPANY HAS EMERGED AS AN ENDGAME WINNER, 
BUT WE NEED TO EARN IT EVERY DAY
JPMorgan Chase Is in Line with Best-in-Class Peers in Both E˜ciency and Returns
E˜ciency
Returns
JPM 2014 overhead
ratios
Best-in-class 
peer overhead 
ratios
2 weighted 
by JPM 
 revenue mix
JPM target
 overhead 
ratios
JPM 2014 ROEBest-in-class 
peer ROTCE
4 weighted by 
JPM equity mix
JPM target 
ROEConsumer & 
Community 
Banking
58%55%WFC
~50%18%16%WFC
20%Corporate & 
Investment 
 Bank62%160%Citi 55%-60%13%114%Citi13%Commercial 
Banking
39%38%PNC35%18%13%PNC18%Asset Management
71%69%UBS WM & BLK70%23%27%BEN25%+JPMorgan Chase
60%159%155%+/-13%313%~15%31  
Excludes legal expense
2  
Best-in-class overhead ratio represents implied expenses of comparable peer segments weighted by JPMorgan Chase (JPM) revenue: Wells Fargo 
Community Banking (WFC), Citi Institutional Clients Group (Citi), PNC Corporate and Institutional Banking (PNC), UBS Wealth Management and 
 Wealth Management Americas (UBS WM) and BlackRock (BLK), and JPM Corporate segment
3  
Represents ROTCE for total JPMorgan Chase. Goodwill is primarily related to the Bank One merger and prior acquisitions and is predominantly 
retained by Corporate
4   
Best-in-class ROTCE represents implied net income minus preferred stock dividends of comparable peers weighted by JPM tangible common equity: 
WFC, Citi, PNC, Franklin Templeton (BEN) and JPM Corporate segment
88our target margins in a normal environment and, most important, our return on equity 
(ROE). On most of these measures, we are 
very close to the best-in-class competitor. 
A good company should be able to earn 
competitive margins over an extended period 
of time regardless of economic conditions while 
investing and without taking excessive risk
Any company can improve earnings in the 
short run by taking on additional risk or 
cutting back on investments. Any company 
can grow rapidly if it takes on too much 
risk Œ but that usually is the kind of growth one comes to regret. Our margins have been 
quite good, even as we have been investing 
for the long run. These investment expenses 
lower our short-term returns, but they 
are ﬁgoodﬂ expenses. In addition to the 
tremendous amount that we invest annu
-ally in technology and infrastructure, some 
examples of where we have invested over 
the past ˚ve years are: 
Œ 448 retail branches in the United States 
Œ 28 wholesale o˜ces abroad Œ 2,498 Chase Private Client locations/
branches, supported by 594 new Private 
Client advisors 
Œ 20 Commercial Banking expansion cities, 
including approximately 350 Commercial 
Banking bankers 
Œ 205 small business bankers
A good company always should be investing 
while it also is waste cutting; i.e., cutting 
out any unnecessary expenses. However, 
I often have received bad advice on what 
are unnecessary expenses. For example, 
spending on important strategic o˛-sites, 
research and development for innovation, 
marketing that has a positive return Œ those 
are good expenses. We take a bus trip annu
-ally to visit branches, operating centers 
and clients. It is both fun and enormously 
productive Œ and it is not an unnecessary 
expense Œ it makes us a better company. 
Even our annual Retail National Sales 
Conference with the top 5% of our branch 
bankers, loan o˜cers and tellers is critical Œ 
we spend time working together, we learn 
a lot and we get to thank these outstanding 
employees at an awards recognition dinner. 
While it is perfectly reasonable in tough times to dramatically reduce the cost of that conference, it is unwise to cancel it. I have 
been to every single one of these events since 
I started running Bank One, and I intend to 
continue that tradition.We earned adequate returns while building an 
increasingly stronger capital base
During these challenging years, our company 
has confronted di˜cult markets, billions of 
dollars of additional regulatory costs, billions 
of dollars of costs due to changes in prod
-ucts and services, and, unfortunately, very 
high legal costs. And we have had to hold 
an increasing amount of capital throughout this time. While there is no question that 
these events did reduce our performance and 
returns, we have been able to adapt, meet the 
new rules and perform fairly well ˚nancially.
99The chart below shows earnings, the capital 
we returned to shareholders through divi
-dends and stock buybacks, our returns 
on tangible common equity and our high quality liquid assets (HQLA). High quality liquid assets essentially are deposits held at the Federal Reserve and central banks, 
agency mortgage-backed securities and 
Treasuries, and they are the component 
of our balance sheet that has grown most dramatically. Only HQLA count for liquid 
assets under banking regulators™ de˚nition of 
liquidity Œ and we currently have more than 
is required by the regulators.
The chart below also shows that even 
after dramatically increasing capital and 
liquidity, both of which reduce returns on 
capital, we were able to earn an adequate 
return on tangible common equity, grow 
our capital base as needed and still return 
capital to shareholders. 
Capital, Liquidity, Returns
($ in billions, except ratios)
˜˚˛˝˙˜˚˛ˆ˜˚˛ˇ˜˚˛˘˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˛˝
˜˚˙˝
ˆ˚˜˝
˙˚ˇ˝
˘˛
˘˘˚˛˝
˘˘˚ˇ˝
˚



˜˛˛
ˆ˚˚
‘’

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
ˇ
1  
Basel III rules became e˛ective on January 1, 2014. The ratios presented for 2010-2014 are calculated under the Basel III Advanced Fully 
 Phased-In Approach and, for 2010-2013, re˝ect the ˜rm™s best estimate based on its understanding of the rules in the relevant period
2  
Represents common dividends plus stock buybacks, which are gross of employee issuance
3  
Re˝ects the ˜rm™s Basel III CET1 ratio glidepath for 2015-2017+
1010Our businesses have been able to gain market 
share, which only happens when we are 
creating happy clients 
Importantly, much of the growth has been 
organic. Please review some of the numbers in 
the chart above Œ they speak for themselves. 
If you had asked me back in 2006 if we could 
have accomplished those kinds of market 
share numbers, I would have been skeptical. 
And, fortunately, we have plenty of areas 
where we still can grow or do better Œ I will 
talk about this in a later section of this letter.
Most of our businesses have exhibited improving 
customer satisfaction 
The chart on the next page shows the great 
progress that our Consumer Bank has made in improving satisfaction scores. In fact, 
American Customer Satisfaction Index 
named Chase #1 in customer satisfaction among large banks in 2014. We have received 
even better scores than most of the regional 
banks and essentially are equal in ranking to the midsized banks. (We still are not satis
-˚ed, however, and want to be even better.) 
We believe that our customer satisfaction 
has been going up for multiple reasons: error 
rate reduction, better products and services, 
good old-fashioned service with a smile, and, 
importantly, innovations like deposit-friendly 
ATMs and continual improvement in online 
and mobile banking services. While the chart 
shows satisfaction in the Consumer Bank, we 
also have had increasing customer satisfac
-tion scores in our small business, mortgage, 
auto ˚nance and credit card franchises.
Leading Client Franchises
 Building exceptional client franchises
We have built our client franchises over time with substantial share gains and opportunity for more 
 2006 2014Consumer &
Community
Banking
Deposits market share
 # of top 50 Chase markets where we are #1 
   
(top 3) depositsCard sales market share
Merchant processing volume
 3.6%1  11 (25) 16%2 #33 7.5%  15 (40) 21%2 #14 Relationships with ~50% of U.S. households
  #1 customer satisfaction among largest U.S. banks 
 for the third consecutive year
14 #1 primary banking relationship share in Chase footprint
15 #1 U.S. credit card issuer based on loans outstanding
2 ~50% of U.S. e-Commerce volume
16Corporate &
 Investment
BankGlobal Investment Banking fees
5  Market share
5Total Markets
6,7 Market share
6,7FICC
6,7 Market share
6,7Equities
6,7 Market share
6,7 #2 8.6% #8 7.9% #7 9.1% #8 6.0% #1 8.1% #1 16.2% #1 18.6% #3 11.5% >80% of Fortune 500 companies do business with us
 Top 3 in 15 product categories out of 16
17 #1 in both U.S. and EMEA Investment Banking fees
18 #1 in Global debt, equity and equity-related
18 #1 in Global long-term debt and Loan syndications
18 Top 3 Custodian globally with AUC of $20.5 trillion
 #1 USD clearinghouse with 19.2% share in 2014
19Commercial 
Banking
# of states with Middle Market banking presence
# of states with top 3 Middle Market banking 
  market share
8Multifamily lending
9 Gross Investment Banking revenue ($ in billions)
 % of North America Investment Banking fees
 22  6 #28 $0.7 16% 30  10 #1 $2.0 35% Average loans grew by 13% CAGR 2006-2014
20 Industry-leading credit performance TTC Š 8 consecutive 
quarters of net recoveries or single-digit NCO rate
 Leveraging the ˜rm™s platform Š average ~9 products/client
AssetManagement
Global active long-term open-end mutual fund 
  AUM ˚ows
10  
AUM market share
10Overall Global Private Bank 
(Euromoney)
 Client assets market share
11U.S. Hedge Fund Manager 
(Absolute Return)
12 AUM market share
12  #2 1.8% #5 ~1% #1113 1.4%  #1 2.5% #1 ~2% #2  3.4% 84% of 10-year long-term mutual fund AUM in top 2 
quartiles
21 23 consecutive quarters of positive long-term AUM ˚ows
 Revenue growth >70% and long-term AUM growth >80% 
 since 2006
 Doubled Global Wealth Management client assets 
 (2x industry rate) since 2006
22For footnoted information, refer to slides 11 and 50 in the 2015 Firm Overview Investor Day presentation, which is available on JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s website at
  (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/presentations.cfm), under the heading Investor Relations, Investor Presentations, JPMorgan Chase 2015 Investor Day, 
 Firm Overview, and on Form 8-K as furnished to the SEC on February 24, 2015, which is available on the SEC™s website (www.sec.gov). Further, for footnote 20, 
 CAGR represents compound annual growth rate
1111Our mix of businesses works for clients Š and 
for shareholders
All companies, including banks, have a 
slightly di˛erent mix of businesses, products 
and services. The most critical question is, 
ﬁDoes what you do work for clients?ﬂ Our franchise does work for clients by virtue of 
the fact that we are gaining share in each of 
our businesses, and it works for shareholders 
by virtue of the fact that we are earning 
decent returns Œ and some of our competi-tors are not.Other considerations are whether your 
company has ﬁmoatsﬂ Œ is it protected in 
some way from debilitating competition or 
events? And has it performed consistently 
Œ in good times and in bad? We believe that 
we have well-forti˚ed moats in the form of 
economies of scale, brand, expertise, tech
-nology and operations, and Œ importantly Œ 
competitive advantages created by our ability 
to cross sell (more on this later in this letter). In addition, we have performed fairly consis
-tently in good times and in bad. Even in 
2008, the worst year in perhaps 75 years for 
˚nancial companies, we earned 6% return 
on common tangible equity Œ not great but not bad, all things considered. Additionally, 
we have embedded strengths that are hard to 
replicate Œ the knowledge and cohesiveness 
of our people, our long-standing client rela
-tionships, our technology and product capa
-bilities, our fortress balance sheet and our 
global presence in more than 100 countries.
Our mix of businesses leads to e˚ective cross 
sell and substantial competitive advantages. 
We are not a conglomerate of separate, 
unrelated businesses Š we are an operating 
company providing ˜nancial services to 
consumers, companies and communities
A conglomerate is a group of unrelated busi-nesses held under one umbrella holding company. There is nothing wrong with 
a conglomerate, but we are not that. In 
our case, whether you are an individual, a 
company (large or small) or a government, 
when you walk in the front door and talk 
with our bankers, we provide you with essen
-tial ˚nancial products, services and advice. 
We have a broad product o˛ering and some 
distinct capabilities, which, combined, create 
a mix of businesses that works well for each 
of our client segments.
Consumer Satisfaction Score: 2010-2014
1  20142013201220112010˜˚Chase ˜˚Industry average    ˜˚Big banks ˜˚Regional banks      ˜˚Midsized banks1  
Source: J.D. Power U.S. Retail Banking Satisfaction Study; Big Banks de˜ned as Chase, Bank of America, 
Wells Fargo, Citibank, U.S. Bank, PNC Bank
1212Part of our mix of businesses, however, is 
not unique. While we divide our company 
into four distinct businesses, the truth 
is that many regional banks do a lot of 
what three of our four businesses do (i.e., 
Chase Consumer & Community Banking, 
Commercial Banking and Asset Manage
-ment). The biggest di˛erence between us 
and regional banks is our global Corpo-rate & Investment Bank (and the non-U.S. 
part of our Asset Management business). 
Our broad product set and some of our unique capabilities (some we inherited, 
and some we built carefully over time), 
combined with e˛ective cross sell, create 
substantial competitive advantage. The 
examples below make some of those 
advantages clear:
Ł Commercial Banking now generates 35% of our U.S. investment banking 
business. This means we are able to 
bring JPMorgan Chase™s exceptional 
Investment Bank to serve hundreds 
of midsized corporations and institu-tions with the best global investment 
banking products and services in the industry. We can do this because our 
Commercial Bank is in hundreds of towns across the country where we can 
serve clients locally Œ person to person 
Œ and also bring the best of JPMorgan 
Chase to them.Ł Around the world, we can bring excep
-tional private banking services to CEOs 
and company owners or help private 
banking clients with their global commercial banking needs.
Ł Because of our international footprint, 
we bring global banking services Œ 
from cash management to M&A Œ to approximately 2,500 of our more than 
20,000 Corporate Client Banking and Middle Market Banking clients, who 
are rapidly expanding overseas and 
who need these services from someone they know and can trust.
Ł We market Chase Paymentech, our 
merchant acquirer, through our branches 
to small businesses, through the Commer
-cial Bank to midsized companies and through our Corporate & Investment Bank 
to large, multinational corporations.
America™s ˜nancial system is still the best the 
world has ever seen Š it is large and diverse 
Š and it serves the best economy the world 
has ever seen, which also is large and diverse
America™s ˚nancial system still is the best 
the world has ever seen, and it includes not 
just banks but asset managers, private equity, 
venture capital, individual and corporate 
investors, non-bank ˚nancial companies, 
and public and private markets. In fact, in 
the United States, banks are a much smaller 
part of the ˚nancial system and the economy 
than in most other countries. And there is a 
great need for the services of all banks, from 
large global banks to smaller regional and community banks. 
Our large global Corporate & Investment Bank 
does things that regional and community banks 
simply cannot do. 
We o˛er unique capabili
-ties to large corporations, large investors and 
governments, including federal institutions, 
states and cities. For example, we provide 
extensive credit lines or raise capital for these 
clients, often in multiple jurisdictions and in 
multiple currencies. We essentially manage 
the checking accounts for these large insti
-tutions, often in many di˛erent countries. 
On the average day, JPMorgan Chase moves 
approximately $6 trillion for these types of 
institutions. On the average day, we raise or 
lend $6 billion for these institutions. On the 
average day, we buy or sell approximately 
$800 billion of securities to serve investors 
and issuers. In 2014, our Corporate & Invest
-ment Bank raised $61 billion for states, cities, 
governments and universities, including 
funds to renovate the historic Arthur Ashe 
(Tennis) Stadium in New York City, revenue 
1313bonds to assist municipalities and hospitals, 
and green bonds to ˚nance environmentally 
bene˚cial projects such as green buildings, 
clean water and renewable energy. As a ˚rm, 
we spend approximately $700 million a year 
on research so that we can educate investors, 
institutions and governments about econo
-mies, markets and companies. The needs of 
these clients will be met Œ one way or another 
Œ by large ˚nancial institutions that can bear 
the costs and risks involved. Simply put, if 
it is not done by a large American ˚nancial 
institution, it will be done by a large non-
American ˚nancial institution.Regional and community banks are critical 
to their communities Š in fact, we are a huge 
supporter and their largest banking partner. 
These banks are deeply embedded in their communities, many of which are not served 
by larger banks. They have an intimate 
knowledge of the local economy and local 
small businesses, which allows them to cost-
e˛ectively serve those clients. JPMorgan 
Chase, as a traditional ﬁmoney center bankﬂ 
and ﬁbankers™ bank,ﬂ in fact, is the largest 
banker in America to regional and commu
-nity banks. We provide them with many 
services so they can continue to serve their 
clients. For example, we directly lend to 
them, we process payments for them, we 
˚nance some of their mortgage activities, we 
raise capital for them (both debt and equity), 
we advise them on acquisitions, and we buy 
and sell securities for them. We also provide 
them with interest rate swaps and foreign 
exchange both for themselves Œ to help them 
hedge some of their exposures Œ and for 
their clients. 
However, large does not necessarily mean 
complex (and things should be complex only 
for a good reason) 
Many of the activities we do that are consid
-ered large are easy to understand. All of our 
5,600 Chase consumer branches do essen
-tially the same thing, and many of our large 
global transactions are not any more compli
-cated than a loan for a middle market client. 
While we agree with the concept that you 
should keep things as simple as possible, 
some things, by their very nature, are more 
complex. And that complexity cannot be 
reduced by wishful thinking. In fact, basic 
lending, whether to a large company or 
a midsized company, is one of the more 
complex things we do because one must 
understand the economy, the nature of 
the business and often the types of collat-eral involved. There are many judgmental 
factors to consider as well, which might 
include the character of the borrower, the 
growth prospects of the business, and an 
understanding of the products and services and technology of the business. 
There are understandable questions about the role that large ˚nancial institutions play. Some of these questions make people 
nervous, in part because they do not under
-stand the larger picture. These are important 
questions, and we always are willing to help 
explain what we do and why we do it. Taken 
in small component pieces, these activities 
generally are easier to understand. While 
some may criticize a bank™s activities instead 
of taking the time to understand them, this 
does not contribute to a genuinely construc-tive dialogue around the role of banks. 
People also should ask themselves one 
basic question: Why do banks o˜er these services? The fact is, almost everything we 
do is because clients want and need our 
various and sometimes complex services. 
(We do many activities that are ancillary to 
clients™ direct needs, but we must do these 
things to provide clients with what they 
need. For example, in order to support our 
operation, we run global data centers, we 
hedge our own exposures and we maintain 
liquid pools of investments.) 
I would venture to say that banking is not 
as complex as making airplanes, discovering 
e˛ective pharmaceuticals, building safe 
cars, developing innovative electronics and, 
of course, understanding nuclear physics. 
There are huge bene˚ts to the complexity 
involved in those other industries Œ but there 
also are sometimes negative consequences. 
The question for society is: Are we, in total, 
1414better o˛ or worse o˛ because of some of the 
great products and services that come with 
complexity? The answer in our opinion is a 
resounding yes, though you should always 
strive to minimize the risks. But we want to 
acknowledge that the di˛erence with banks, 
as pointed out by critics, is that if and when 
they make mistakes, they can severely harm 
the economy. This concern is legitimate, and I 
will talk about it in a later section.Larger does not necessarily mean more risky 
For example, many large banks had no 
problem navigating the ˚nancial crisis, 
while many smaller banks went bankrupt. 
Many of these smaller banks went bankrupt 
because they were undiversi˚ed, meaning 
that most of their lending took place in a speci˚c geography. A good example was 
when oil collapsed in the late 1980s. Texas 
banks went bankrupt because of their direct 
exposure to oil companies and also because 
of their exposure to real estate whose value 
depended largely on the success of the oil business. Since the crisis began seven years 
ago, more than 500 smaller banks have gone 
bankrupt, and JPMorgan Chase has contrib
-uted approximately $8 billion to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation to help pay 
for the resolution of those banks. 
And, yes, there are both costs and bene˜ts to 
size and complexity
The bene˚ts of size are obvious: huge econo
-mies of scale, the ability to serve large clients 
and make large investments, and safe diversi
-˚cation, among others. And, yes, there some
-times are clear negatives to size Œ usually in 
the form of arrogance, greed, complacency 
or lack of attention to detail. (There also are 
many small businesses a˝icted with these 
diseases Œ they kill companies both large 
and small.) Good companies get the bene˚ts of size and continuously are ˚ghting o˛ the negatives. And there are lots of winners and 
losers, particularly as industries consolidate. 
In every industry, you will see companies 
that bene˚t from size Œ and those that don™t. Our size and strength allow us to create 
bene˜ts for society by helping economies 
and communities around the world grow and 
prosper
We are able to do our part in supporting 
communities and economies around the world because we are strong, stable and 
permanent. And because of this strength 
and stability, we can continue to support our 
clients in good times and, more important, 
in the toughest of times. The most important 
thing we can do is keep our company healthy 
and vibrant so that we can serve the needs 
of customers, consumers and businesses and 
help local economies and the thousands of cities and various communities around the 
world where we operate to grow and prosper. 
In addition, we strongly believe in being a 
good corporate citizen. We are one of the 
most philanthropic companies in the world 
(we give away more than $200 million a 
year), but we are able to do much more than 
provide money. We bring the skills, resources 
and global knowledge of our entire ˚rm to support the economic growth and prog-ress of communities across the globe. One 
example is our research, such as studying 
how our communities analyze labor market 
conditions so they can get better at training 
people for jobs or how cities can further 
develop their economies. See Peter Scher™s 
Corporate Responsibility letter on page 58 for more details on our e˛orts to support 
cities and communities around the globe. 
Following are three unique initiatives that 
we™d like to focus on:
JPMorgan Chase Institute.
 We will be o˜
-cially launching an exciting new initiative 
called the JPMorgan Chase Institute, which 
is a global think tank dedicated to deliv-ering data-rich analyses, expert insights 
and thought leadership for the public good. 
Drawing on the knowledge, market access, 
broad relationships and resources across the ˚rm, the JPMorgan Chase Institute will 
help inform both business and policy deci
-sions by grounding them with facts, data 
and thoughtful analysis. Our aim is to help 
decision makers Œ policymakers, businesses 
and nonpro˚t leaders Œ appreciate the scale, 
1515Ł We supported nonpro˚t organizations, 
including Focus: HOPE, in their e˛orts to 
help people gain skills from job training 
programs.
Ł We helped small businesses get access to 
the advice, training and other resources 
needed to grow, including a new commer
-cial kitchen at Eastern Market that will 
allow more food businesses to expand.
Ł We provided lending for development 
Œ both commercial development to let 
businesses like Global Titanium expand 
jobs and residential development and new 
construction of apartment buildings in Detroit™s urban core and neighborhoods.
Ł We created the Detroit Service Corps to 
bring more than 50 of our top managers to work full time with Detroit nonpro˚ts 
to help them analyze challenges, solve 
problems and give them the best chance 
for success. 
Helping Detroit™s economy recover and 
thrive would be a shining example of Amer
-ican resilience and ingenuity at work.
Military and veterans.
 Another e˛ort that we 
want you to know about is what JPMorgan 
Chase has done to help position military 
members, veterans and their families for 
success in their post-service lives through 
employment, housing and educational 
programs. In 2011, JPMorgan Chase and 10 
other companies launched the 100,000 Jobs 
Mission, setting a goal of collectively hiring 
100,000 veterans. The 100,000 Jobs Mission 
now includes more than 190 companies that 
have collectively hired more than 217,000 
veterans since 2011 and has pledged to 
hire a total of 300,000 veterans. JPMorgan 
Chase hired over 1,800 veterans in 2014, 
nearly a 40% year-over-year increase, for a 
total of nearly 8,700 veterans hired since 
2011. Further, we expanded our employ
-ment programs to address the unique needs 
of women veterans and military spouses. 
We hope that this makes you as proud of 
JPMorgan Chase as it does for all of us.
granularity, diversity and interconnected
-ness of the global economic system to inform 
smarter decisions and good policies that advance global prosperity for consumers, 
businesses and countries. The research 
agenda will include groundbreaking analytic work on the ˚nancial behavior of individ
-uals, insights on the small business sector, 
and expert pro˚ling of global trade and 
capital ˙ows.
Detroit.
 We brought all of our resources to 
bear in a special, coordinated way, which we 
never have done before, to try to help the 
city of Detroit. We have been doing business 
there for more than 80 years and already 
are the largest consumer, commercial and 
investment bank serving Detroit™s consumers 
and companies. But we wanted to do more 
to help kick-start the city™s recovery. This 
e˛ort is a $100 million commitment, which 
includes investments, philanthropy and 
our people working in tandem with a set 
of city leaders who have come together to 
work toward a common purpose. Our initial 
interest in undertaking this e˛ort was made 
possible because of our faith in the extraordi
-nary work and talent of Mayor Duggan and 
Gov. Snyder (and Kevyn Orr, who recently 
left as Emergency Manager). Their dedica
-tion to coherently, comprehensively and 
pragmatically attacking the city™s enormous 
problems made us want to do more. In fact, 
everything we have done to help is the result 
of asking a broad array of the city™s leaders 
what they really needed and then working 
with them to come up with some creative 
solutions. Let me give just a few examples:
Ł We expanded the city™s e˛ort to systemati
-cally map every single parcel in Detroit 
and provided the technology assistance 
so that residents can use their phones to continually update the database. 
Ł We helped provide ˚nancing for people 
who wanted to purchase land or to buy 
and renovate homes.
1616II.Our paramount responsibility to society and 
to our clients is to be there in good times and 
bad timesWe have a huge obligation to society Œ not 
only must we never fail, but we need to be 
steadfast. Never failing means having the 
˚nancial strength, liquidity, margins, and 
strong and diverse earnings where you can 
weather any storm. It also means having 
the ability to adapt, survive and even thrive 
through the cycles.
Steadfast means that you will be there no 
matter what happens, and being there means 
that you can continue to properly serve your 
clients even in tough times. In the toughest 
of times, it is not about making a pro˚t. 
It is about helping your clients survive. I 
should point out that in the toughest of times, particularly in 2009, JPMorgan Chase 
rolled over and extended credit to small 
and medium-sized businesses a total of $63 billion, to governments and nonpro˚ts a 
total of $110 billion, and to large corporations 
a total of $1.1 trillion. I will talk more about this later.
We extensively manage our risks so that 
we can survive in any scenario. The Federal 
Reserve™s stress test is a tough measure of 
our survival capability Š though our ability to 
survive is stronger than that test implies 
We are fanatics about stress testing and risk 
management. 
It is in our best interest to protect this company Œ for the sake of our 
shareholders, clients, employees and commu
-nities. If you went to our risk committee 
meetings, you would see a number of profes
-sionals working to thoughtfully manage and 
reduce our risk Œ we don™t want a bunch 
of cowboys trying to increase it. We run 
hundreds of stress tests a week, across our 
global credit and trading operations, to 
ensure our ability to withstand and survive 
many bad scenarios. These scenarios include 
events like what happened in 2008, other 
historically damaging events and also new 
situations that might occur. Our stress tests 
include analyzing extremely bad outcomes 
relating to the Eurozone, Russia and the 
Middle East. Regarding the Eurozone, we must be prepared 
for a potential exit by Greece. We continu
-ally stress test our company for possible 
repercussions resulting from such an event 
(even though, in our opinion, after the initial 
turmoil, it is quite possible that it would 
prompt greater structural reform e˛orts by 
countries that remain). Also regarding geopo
-litical crises, one of our ˚rm™s great thinkers, 
Michael Cembalest, reviewed all of the major 
geopolitical crises going back to the Korean 
War, which included multiple crises involving 
the Soviet Union and countries in the Middle 
East, among others. Only one of these events 
derailed global ˚nancial markets: the 1973 
war in the Middle East that resulted in an 
oil embargo, caused oil prices to quadruple 
and put much of the world into recession. 
We stress test frequently virtually every 
country and all credit, market and interest 
rate exposures; and we analyze not only the 
primary e˛ects but the secondary and tertiary 
consequences. And we stress test for extreme 
moves Œ like the one you recently saw around 
oil prices. Rest assured, we extensively 
manage our risks.
The Federal Reserve™s Comprehensive Capital 
Analysis and Review (CCAR) stress test is another 
tough measure of our survival capability.
 The stress test is good for our industry in that it 
clearly demonstrates the ability of each and 
every bank to be properly capitalized, even 
after an extremely di˜cult environment. 
Speci˚cally, the test is a nine-quarter scenario 
where unemployment suddenly goes to 
10.1%, home prices drop 25%, equities 
plummet approximately 60%, credit losses 
skyrocket and market-making loses a lot of 
money (like in the Lehman Brothers crisis). 
WE BUILD FOR THE LONG TERM Š WE MANAGE 
THROUGH-THE-CYCLE, AND WE ALWAYS ARE 
PREPARED FOR THE TOUGHEST OF TIMES
1717To make sure the test is severe enough, the 
Fed essentially built into
 every bank™s results 
some of the insu˜cient and poor decisions that some banks made during the crisis. 
While I don™t explicitly know, I believe that 
the Fed makes the following assumptions:
Ł The stress test essentially assumes that certain models don™t work properly, partic
-ularly in credit (this clearly happened with mortgages in 2009).
Ł The stress test assumes all of the negatives 
of market moves but none of the positives.
Ł The stress test assumes that all banks™ risk-
weighted assets would grow fairly signi˚
-cantly. (The Fed wants to make sure that 
a bank can continue to lend into a crisis and still pass the test.) This could clearly 
happen to any one bank though it couldn™t 
happen to all banks at the same time.
Ł The stress test does not allow a reduction for stock buybacks and dividends. Again, 
many banks did not do this until late in 
the last crisis.
I believe the Fed is appropriately conserva
-tively measuring the above-mentioned aspects 
and wants to make sure that each and every 
bank has adequate capital in a crisis without 
having to rely on good management decisions, 
perfect models and rapid responses.
We believe that we would perform far better 
under the Fed™s stress scenario than the Fed™s 
stress test implies.
 Let me be perfectly clear Œ I support the Fed™s stress test, and we at 
JPMorgan Chase think that it is important 
that the Fed stress test each bank the way it 
does. But it also is important for our share
-holders to understand the di˛erence between 
the Fed™s stress test and what we think actu
-ally would happen. Here are a few examples 
of where we are fairly sure we would do 
better than the stress test would imply:
Ł We would be far more aggressive on 
cutting expenses, particularly compensa
-tion, than the stress test allows.
Ł We would quickly cut our dividend and 
stock buyback programs to conserve 
capital. In fact, we reduced our dividend 
dramatically in the ˚rst quarter of 2009 and stopped all stock buybacks in the ˚rst 
quarter of 2008.Ł We would not let our balance sheet grow 
quickly. And if we made an acquisition, 
we would make sure we were properly 
capitalized for it. When we bought Wash
-ington Mutual (WaMu) in September of 
2008, we immediately raised $11.5 billion 
in common equity to protect our capital position. There is no way we would make 
an acquisition that would leave us in a 
precarious capital position.Ł And last, our trading losses would unlikely 
be $20 billion as the stress test shows. The 
stress test assumes that dramatic market 
moves all take place on one day and that 
there is very little recovery of values. In 
the real world, prices drop over time, 
and the volatility of prices causes bid/ask 
spreads to widen Œ which helps market-
makers. In a real-world example, in the six 
months after the Lehman Brothers crisis, 
J.P. Morgan™s actual trading results were 
 $4 billion of losses Œ a signi˚cant portion of which related to the Bear Stearns acqui
-sition Œ which would not be repeated. We 
also believe that our trading exposures are 
much more conservative today than they 
were during the crisis.
Finally, and this should give our shareholders 
a strong measure of comfort: During the 
actual ˚nancial crisis of 2008 and 2009, 
we never lost money in any quarter. We hope that, over time, capital planning 
becomes more predictable.
 We do not believe 
that banks are trying to ﬁgameﬂ the system. 
What we are trying to do is understand the 
regulatory goals and objectives so we can 
properly embed them in our decision-making 
process. It is critical for the banking system 
that the treatment of capital is coherent and 
1818consistent over time and is not in any way 
capricious. Capital is precious, and it needs to 
be deployed intelligently in the business or 
properly returned to shareholders. If share
-holders do not have a clear understanding of 
capital management and have unreasonable 
expectations, then that capital will be devalued. 
This is a bad outcome for all involved.
While there always will be cycles, we need to 
keep our eye on the important things, too Š 
the outlook for long-term growth is excellent
The needs of countries, companies, investor 
clients and individuals will continue to grow over time. The chart below shows some of 
the long-term growth that is expected in 
some critical areas, including the underlying 
growth of gross domestic product and trade, 
investable/˚nancial assets, infrastructure and 
capital markets activities. This is the 
fuel that will drive our business in the future. 
Therefore, we take a long-term perspective 
on investing. How we currently view low net 
interest margins is a good example of making 
decisions for the long run
To capture our share of the growth in our 
underlying businesses, we need to continu
-ally invest in bankers, branches and capabili
-ties (research, products and technology) to 
drive down our costs and better serve our 
clients. It is a lot of hard work that needs to 
be supported by all of our critical functions, 
from ˚nance and human resources to opera-tions and controls. This kind of investing 
should not be done in a stop-start way to 
manage short-term pro˚tability.
Quarterly earnings Œ even annual earnings 
Œ frequently are the result of actions taken 
over the past ˚ve or 10 years. Our company 
continued to invest through the crisis Œ often 
when others could not Œ in order to capture future growth.Global Macro Themes
20142024 Growth
World gross 
 domestic product
($ in trillions) $ 78 $ 133 5.5% CAGR
World exports
($ in trillions) $ 22 $ 38 1.7xInvestable assets
($ in trillions) $ 263 $ 481 6% CAGR
 12% emerging
 4% developed
Infrastructure
spend($ in trillions)$36 over last 18 years
$57 over next 18 years
 1.6x  2.6x emerging
 1.1x developed
Number of  companies with 
 $1+ billion revenue
8,00015,0001 1.9x 3.8x emerging
 1.2x developed
Source: International Monetary Fund, World Bank, McKinsey, JPMorgan Chase analysis
1 2025 estimate 1919A very good current example of how we 
view investing and long-term decision 
making is how we are dealing with the 
squeeze on our net interest margins (NIM) due to extremely low interest rates. The best 
example of this is in our consumer business, 
where NIM has gone from 2.95% to 2.20% (from 2009 to 2014). This spread reduction 
has reduced our net interest income by $2.5 
billion, from $10 billion to $7.5 billion Œ or 
if you look at it per account, from $240 to 
$180. Since we strongly believe this is a 
temporary phenomenon and we did not 
want to take more risk to increase our NIM 
(which we easily could have done), we 
continued to open new accounts. Over those 
years, we added 4.5 million accounts Œ and, 
in fact, very good sizable accounts. This has 
reduced our operating margins from 36% to 32%, but we don™t care. When normal 
interest rates return, we believe this will add 
$3 billion to revenue and improve our oper
-ating margin to more than 40%.Our long-term view means that we do not 
manage to temporary P/E ratios Š the tail 
should not wag the dog
Price/earnings (P/E) ratios, like stock prices, 
are temporary and volatile and should not 
be used to run and build a business. We 
have built one great franchise, our way, 
which has been quite successful for some 
time. As long as the business being built is a 
real franchise and can stand the test of time, 
one should not overreact to Mr. Market. 
This does not mean we should not listen to 
what investors are saying Œ it just means 
we should not overreact to their comments 
Œ particularly if their views re˙ect tempo-rary factors. While the stock market over a 
long period of time is the ultimate judge of 
performance, it is not a particularly good 
judge over a short period of time. A more 
consistent measure of value is our tangible 
book value, which has had healthy growth 
over time. Because of our conservative 
accounting, tangible book value is a very 
good measure of the growth of the value 
of our company. In fact, when Mr. Market 
gets very moody and depressed, we think it 
might be a good time to buy back stock. 
I often have received bad advice about what 
we should do to earn a higher P/E ratio. 
Before the crisis, I was told that we were 
too conservatively ˚nanced and that more 
leverage would help our earnings. Outsiders 
said that one of our weaknesses in ˚xed 
income trading was that we didn™t do enough 
collateralized debt obligations and structured 
investment vehicles. And others said that we 
couldn™t a˛ord to invest in initiatives like our 
own branded credit cards and the buildout of our Chase Private Client franchise during 
the crisis. Examples like these are exactly the 
reasons why one should not follow the herd.
While we acknowledge that our P/E ratio is 
lower than many of our competitors™ ratio, 
one must ask why. I believe our stock price 
has been hurt by higher legal and regulatory 
costs and continues to be depressed due to future uncertainty regarding both. 
We still face legal uncertainty though we are 
determined to reduce it over time.
 Though we still face legal uncertainty (particularly 
around foreign exchange trading), we are 
determined to reduce it and believe it will 
diminish over time. I should point out that 
while we certainly have made our share of 
costly mistakes, a large portion of our legal 
expense over the last few years has come 
from issues that we acquired with Bear 
Stearns and WaMu. These problems were far 
in excess of our expectations. Virtually 70% 
of all our mortgage legal costs, which have 
been extraordinary (they now total close to 
$19 billion), resulted from those two acquisi
-tions. In the Bear Stearns case, we did not 
anticipate that we would have to pay the 
penalties we ultimately were required to pay. 
And in the WaMu case, we thought we had 
robust indemnities from the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and the WaMu receiv
-ership, but as part of our negotiations with 
the Department of Justice that led to our big 
mortgage settlement, we had to give those 
up. In case you were wondering: No, we 
would not do something like Bear Stearns 
2020again Œ in fact, I don™t think our Board would 
let me take the call. The WaMu deal might 
still make sense but at a much lower price to 
make up for the ongoing legal uncertainty 
(including the government™s ability to take 
away our bargained-for indemnities). I did 
not, and perhaps could not, have anticipated 
such a turn of events. These are expensive 
lessons that I will not forget.
Part of the issue around legal costs is that 
banks are now frequently paying penalties to 
˚ve or six di˛erent regulators (both domestic 
and international) on exactly the same issue. 
This is an unprecedented approach that 
probably warrants a serious policy discussion 
Œ especially if those regulators (as at least some of them have acknowledged) don™t take 
into account what is being paid to the others. 
For now, it™s simply a reality for big banks, 
and certainly for us, that when one or more 
employees do something wrong, we™ll hear 
from multiple regulators on the subject.The good news is that our legal costs are 
coming down and, we hope, will normalize 
by 2016.
Uncertainty remains around regulatory require
-ments, though we believe this will diminish over 
time, too. 
That uncertainty is particularly 
acute around the extra capital that JPMorgan 
Chase will have to hold because of the new 
Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) 
rules, the ultimate impact of the Volcker 
Rule, total loss-absorbing capacity, CCAR 
and Recovery & Resolution. And it™s because 
of that uncertainty that a majority of the 
time I spend with analysts and investors 
these days is devoted to regulation. Very 
little time is spent talking about the actual 
business, like client transactions, market 
share gains or other business drivers. Many 
questions still remain, and they are hard to 
explain or are di˜cult to answer, including: 
Why did American regulators simply double 
the G-SIB capital requirements for American 
banks versus all other global banks? Will 
higher capital requirements be added later? 
Given that much uncertainty, which is 
greater for JPMorgan Chase than for most 
other banks, it is understandable that people 
would pay less for our earnings than they 
otherwise might pay.
Having said all this, the contours of all of 
the new regulations have emerged, and 
we believe that regulatory uncertainty will 
diminish over time. And, we hope, so will 
 the drag on our P/E ratio. 
Think like a long-term investor, manage like 
an operator 
So our ultimate goal is to think like a long-
term investor Œ build great franchises, 
strengthen moats and have good through-
the-cycle ˚nancial results. Achieve the 
bene˚ts of scale and eliminate the negatives. 
Develop great long-term achievable strate
-gies. And manage the business relentlessly, 
like a great operator. Finally, continue to 
develop excellent management that keeps 
it all going. As Thomas Edison said, ﬁVision 
without execution is hallucination.ﬂ
2121We have meaningfully simpli˜ed the company
While I have said that it is good housekeeping 
to keep our company as simple as possible, 
we have done an extraordinary amount of 
cleaning out this past year. More important, 
last year, we 
said that we would do it, and 
this year we actually 
did it. The chart below 
shows that we did it by shedding businesses, 
reducing products and materially de-risking 
by reducing certain types of clients that 
simply create too much risk in the new world. 
In total, we have reduced approximately $25 
billion in assets through this e˛ort. All of 
this makes the work of our compliance and 
control executives that much easier, as they 
can focus more on what™s important. 
III.We are well on our way to having fortress 
controls 
The intense e˛ort over the last few years 
now is yielding real results and will go a long way in protecting the company in the future. 
When we are done, we hope not just to have 
met the heightened expectations of our regu
-lators but to have exceeded them. In addition 
to successfully completing CCAR (which we 
will strive to do every year), there are other 
examples of tangible progress. Following are 
some of our accomplishments:Ł Strengthened compliance. 
We have added 
approximately 8,000 people across the 
˚rm with a mission to strengthen our compliance capabilities. We have further 
aligned global leadership to drive focus 
and consistency across key risk areas such 
as AML/BSA (Anti-Money Laundering/
WE WILL SUCCESSFULLY NAVIGATE THE NEW GLOBAL 
FINANCIAL ARCHITECTURE (AND WE ARE WELL ON 
OUR WAY TO HAVING FORTRESS CONTROLS)
Executed Signi˚cant Business Simpli˚cation Agenda
Operating with fortress principles
 1 Does not include impact of the One Equity Partners and Private Equity portfolio sale
2 EXIM = ExportŒImport Bank; ECA = Export Credit Agency
Simplifying our business
Completed the spin-out of One Equity 
 Partners and closed on the sale of a 
 portion of our Private Equity portfolio
Exited physical commodities business
Sold Global Special Opportunities 
 Group portfolio
Exit in process of majority of Broker 
 Dealer Services business
Terminated transaction services for ~500 
 Foreign Correspondent Banking clients
Ceased originating student loans

Announced exit of Sears Canada and 
 several smaller non-core card partnerships

Announced exit of International 
 Commercial Card

Sold interest in Carlson Wagonlit 
 Travel agency
Sold Retirement Plan Services unit

Exited prepaid card and Order to Pay 
businessesSold health savings account business
Incremental ˚nancial impact
1($ in billions)20152016 and beyond
Revenue
$1.6  $0.7 Expense$1.6 $0.6 Other meaningful business actions
Simpli˜ed Mortgage Banking products 
 from 37 to 18 products as of 2014, 
 with a target of further reducing to 15
Rationalized Global Investment 
 Management products: reduced U.S. 
 funds # by net 6%, Asia funds net 4% 
 and Europe funds net 2% in 2014
De-risking through client selection 
Šdiscontinuing certain businesses with 
 select clients:

Exited ~8,000 clients in Business 
 Banking and Commercial Banking

Exited ~5,500 foreign Politically 
  Exposed Person relationships
Sold signi˜cant portion of CIB™s trade 
 ˜nance EXIM/ECA
2 portfolio
2222Bank Secrecy Act), ˚duciary risk, market 
conduct risk, employee compliance and 
privacy. We have enhanced our policies 
and implemented new procedures and technology support.
Ł New anti-money laundering systems deployed.
 We have implemented Mantas, an 
industry-leading transaction monitoring platform, for all U.S. dollar payment 
transactions. This provides a signi˚
-cant improvement in our transaction 
monitoring capabilities and allows us to decommission multiple less e˛ective 
legacy systems. We also have upgraded 
our processes and technology support in 
AML investigations and sanctions. We 
have more to do, but a strong foundation 
is in place.
Ł Foreign correspondent banking review. 
Given 
the regulatory scrutiny around these 
activities, we have exited many relation
-ships with foreign correspondent banks 
where we have risk-related concerns or 
where we needed to simplify our busi
-ness. In addition to the relationship 
exits, we have improved our controls for 
foreign correspondent banking activities, 
including enhancing our technology to 
better monitor U.S. dollar correspondent 
bank transactions Œ which allowed us to 
implement 10 new transaction monitoring scenarios to better track millions of trans
-actions each day. 
Ł Enhanced controls in connection with payday 
lender practices.
 We reviewed our poli
-cies, systems and processes to decrease 
˚nancial burdens on our customers and hinder payday lenders™ ability to engage in 
predatory collection practices. And then 
we did the following: eliminated multiple 
return item fees, enhanced our policy and 
systems for stop payment requests, and 
allowed account closure with a pending 
transaction and/or a negative balance. 
(NACHA rules originally did not allow a 
bank to close an account with a pending transaction. Consumers wanted to close 
the account to stop payday lenders from 
trying to take money from the account on 
a daily basis.) In addition, we are working 
with NACHA to develop new standards 
for the entire industry.
Ł Mortgage servicing improvements.
 As one 
of the United States™ largest mortgage 
lenders, some of our practices were not 
designed to handle the unprecedented increase in volume that occurred as a 
result of the ˚nancial crisis. Therefore, we 
reviewed the areas that needed enhance
-ment and took the appropriate actions. 
We focused on improving our operating 
model, we dedicated more than 10,000 
employees to assist customers that were 
having di˜culty making payments, and 
we improved our communications with 
customers to provide better counseling 
and more clarity about the options avail
-able. We also invested more than 280,000 
hours of our technology employees™ 
time to improve our Mortgage Servicing 
business, including enhancing the loan 
modi˚cation application to improve the 
systems that track and manage customer 
complaints and responses.
Ł Model review.
 More than 300 employees 
are working in Model Risk and Devel
-opment. In 2014, this highly special
-ized team completed over 500 model 
reviews, implemented a system to assess 
the ongoing performance of the 1,000+ 
most complex models in the ˚rm, and 
continued to enhance capital and loss 
models for our company.
Fortunately, most of our strategies stay 
essentially the same
Many banks will have to make some fairly 
drastic changes to their strategies, and 
because various banks are facing di˛erent 
overarching constraints, those strategies may 
be dramatically dissimilar. We are fortunate 
that our strategies will remain essentially the same, which allows us to avoid the upheaval, 
both internally and externally with clients, 
that often comes when strategies need to be changed dramatically.
2323However, a small percentage of our products 
and services will require some surgery (more on that later). In addition, because some 
companies are making large strategic moves, 
we would expect to see an ongoing shift in 
market shares and pricing. It is possible that 
we will bene˚t from both of these trends. 
While uncertainty remains, the contours to 
the new rules are largely known, and we have 
made enormous progress adapting to them 
The chart below describes the new rules and 
regulations with which we need to comply. 
And remember, these new rules a˛ect each 
product, business, legal entity and client. 
Every requirement has a few hundred 
2015 Financial Architecture
DescriptionSelected requirements
Selected JPMorgan Chase actions
Capital
  Improving the banking sector™s 
ability to absorb losses arising from 
˜nancial and economic stress
  750+ requirements with 21 
regulators involved
   ~27 di˛erent capital ratio 
requirements
  950+ people  20,000+ pages of supporting 
documentation 
  225+ new models
Liquidity
  Ensuring banks hold sufficient 
liquid assets to survive acute 
liquidity stress
  Prevent overreliance on 
 short-term wholesale funding
 500+ requirements
  15+ jurisdictional variations 
expected
 400+ people   Process and store 1+ billion records 
per day from 200+ feeds
Recovery & Resolution
  Ensuring the resiliency of ˜rms 
 to prevent failure
 Preparing living wills
   Annual global recovery plan
   Annual resolution plans for 34 
entities, with plans by business 
 and critical operations
   10+ jurisdictions issued or 
proposed Recovery & Resolution 
regulation, with more expected
  1,000+ people  1+ million work hours devoted 
annuallyMortgages
  Reforming the nation™s housing 
˜nance system
  Expanding origination, servicing 
and securitization regulation
   90+ new, proposed or amended 
rules, notices and regulations 
contained within ~13,000 pages 
 of regulatory text
    
~2,000 pages of systemic reform 
legislation introduced
  ~800,000 compliance training 
hours
  ~1.4 million work hours 
 dedicated to systems and process 
implementation
Data reporting 
 and management
   Enhancing data-related capabilities 
by increasing accountability 
 and transparency for data quality
  Improving the ˜rm™s ability to 
collect, manage and report on data 
in order to facilitate greater market 
and product transparency
  11 principles with 1,000+ requirements
  3,300+ pages of requirements, 
principles and guidance
 1,000+ people working across 
 43 business groups
 120+ distinct programs with 
1,400+ milestonesDerivatives
  Enhancing pre- and post-trade 
transparency
  Promoting use of electronic trading 
venues and central clearing
  Bolstering capital and margin 
requirements
  99 proposed or ˜nalized 
regulations (U.S.) and 237 ˜nal 
articles (European Union)
  3,150+ pages of requirements and 
guidance
  700+ people 60 workstreams
Volcker
  Restricting banks from undertaking 
certain types of market activities
  Controlling risks associated with 
certain trading and funds-related 
activity
  1,000+ pages covering 36 
requirements, with 5 regulators 
involved
  300+ people  7 trading metrics reported 
 monthly across 15 business 
 areas
Note: This list of regulations is not comprehensive; estimates of resources are approximate
2424detailed rules around it to which we need to 
adapt. While it is a lot of work, we believe we 
will be able to successfully accomplish all of 
it. We have spoken about many of these rules 
and requirements in the past so we won™t 
go into greater detail here, other than on the 
new G-SIB capital rules, which will have some 
material e˛ects on some of our businesses.
Intense e˚ort is going into understanding 
and adapting to the new G-SIB capital rules. 
Last year, we described how we had to 
manage the company to satisfy several new 
constraints (all of the liquidity, leverage, 
capital and CCAR requirements). To do 
this, we were 
pushing these new rules and requirements all the way down to the 
product and client levels. The G-SIB capital 
rules are a new constraint that we also need 
to manage to, and for JPMorgan Chase, they 
possibly are the most important constraint, 
though this may change over time. There
-fore, we also need to push the new G-SIB 
rules to the product and client levels. 
Unlike RWA, which lets one measure the 
risk embedded in each asset and, thus, the 
capital needed to hold against it, G-SIB is 
multivariate. G-SIB is not a simple calcula
-tion. It requires thousands of calculations, 
and it does not look at just assets Œ it looks at products, services, assets, type of client 
(i.e., international and ˚nancial or corporate) 
and collateral type, among others in order to 
determine capital levels. 
G-SIB will have its highest impact on non-
operating deposits, gross derivatives, the 
clearing business in general and certain 
clients, particularly ˚nancial institutions, 
including central banks. At the end of the 
day, we believe that we can manage through 
this process and reduce our capital require-ments while maintaining our core fran-chises. To the extent that these changes 
materially impact clients, we will do it 
thoughtfully and carefully and help them 
˚nd appropriate alternatives.
G-SIB is not a direct measure of risk.
 The G-SIB 
calculations show that JPMorgan Chase is the 
most Global Systemically Important Bank, 
and, therefore, we have to hold more capital 
than any other bank in the world. Some of 
our shareholders believe that this designa
-tion implies that before the additional capital 
is held, we may be the riskiest institution, 
too. But G-SIB is not a true measure of risk, 
like RWA or CCAR. (And as shareholders 
have mentioned to me, many of these 
measures do not indicate how they would 
look at risk; i.e., margins, earnings diversi
-˚cation and actual performance in tough 
times, in addition to criteria such as capital 
and liquidity.) 
In fact, parts of G-SIB are very risk insensi
-tive Œ for example, it does not measure our 
actual and largest risks in credit markets 
(still our largest exposures) Œ and it adds a 
lot of capital for some activities that have 
absolutely no risk involved. One example 
will su˜ce: We take non-operating deposits 
(deposits that are very short term in nature 
from investors so they can manage their 
short-term cash needs) from central banks and large ˚nancial institutions. We have 
approximately $350 billion of non-operating 
deposits, a large portion from ˚nancial 
institutions, which we immediately turn 
around and deposit at the Federal Reserve, 
and this is risk-free to us. We mostly do this 
as an accommodation to large institutions that need to move extensive sums of money 
around and we generate minimal earnings 
from this activity. We recently announced 
that we are going to reduce these deposits 
by $100 billion, which in the context of 
the ˚rm™s broader actions will reduce our 
common equity requirements by approxi
-mately $3.5 billion. (Since these changes 
involve some of the largest ˚nancial institu
-tions in the world, we are doing this very 
carefully and are trying to make sure that 
clients have access to alternatives such as 
access to money market funds and direct 
access to Federal Reserve facilities.) 
2525We hope to learn a lot more about the G-SIB 
calculations. Many questions remain, which 
we hope will be answered over time such as:
Ł It is unclear (it has not been made trans-parent to us) how and why these calcula
-tions are supposed to re˙ect systemic risk. In addition, they are relative calculations, 
which means that even if we and every
-body else all reduced these exposures, 
our surcharge would not change, while 
presumably systemic risk would drop.
Ł It is unclear how these calculations take 
into consideration the extensive number 
of new rules and regulations that are supposed to reduce systemic risk (i.e., total 
loss-absorbing capacity, net stable funding 
ratio, liquidity coverage ratio, supplemen
-tary leverage ratio and the new Recovery 
& Resolution rules).Ł It is unclear why the U.S. regulators 
doubled the calculations versus everyone 
else in the world, particularly since the 
U.S. banking system, as a percentage of 
the U.S. economy, is smaller than in most 
other countries. 
G-SIB is important, and we take it seriously. 
The G-SIB capital surcharge, however calculated, 
is an important part of our capital needs. 
And since we are outsized, relative to our 
competitors (our capital surcharge currently 
is estimated as 4.5% of risk-weighted assets, 
yet many of our competitors are between 
2%-4% of risk-weighted assets), we will be 
more comfortable when the surcharge is 
reduced. We already have begun to lower the 
surcharge by 0.5%, and, over time, expect 
to do more than that. Marianne Lake and 
Daniel Pinto gave details on this topic in 
their Investor Day presentations. The regula
-tors have made it clear that these are impor
-tant measures of global systemic risk, and 
they have given us a clear road map to how 
we can reduce these exposures Œ and we are 
going to take that road. 
We must and will meet the regulators™ 
demands on Recovery & Resolution Š 
whatever it takes
A critical part of eliminating ﬁToo Big to 
Failﬂ is meeting the regulators™ demands on 
Recovery & Resolution. The Recovery Plan 
is the ˚rst line of defense in a crisis situ-ation and serves as the road map for how 
to prevent the ˚rm from actually failing. It 
gives the regulators the comfort that the ˚rm 
has done su˜cient upfront planning and analysis and has an outline for how the ˚rm 
could recover if confronted with a severe 
˚nancial crisis. The plan essentially helps the 
regulators understand the comprehensive 
set of alternatives and actions available to 
enable the ˚rm to fully recover and prevent a 
failure. Resolution Plans, on the other hand, 
are the playbooks for how the company can 
be restructured or unwound in an orderly 
way in the event of a failure so that other 
banks and the general economy would not 
su˛er. The plans outline for the regulators a 
set of strategies, necessary information and 
detailed plans by legal entity. For instance, 
JPMorgan Chase has reported that it has 34 
legal entities and branches housing the vast 
majority of the ˚rm™s essential operations 
and businesses. Each legal entity has to be 
understood by the regulators and must have 
distinct intercompany agreements and a 
comprehensive plan in place to manage the 
legal entity in the event that it needs to be 
resolved. We have taken these requirements 
very seriously as evidenced by the more than 
1,000 people working diligently on the exten
-sive Recovery & Resolution requirements. 
In addition, we are working to reduce the 
number of entities we have and to simplify 
our structure and inter-entity arrangements. 
We need to satisfy all of our regulators on 
these plans, and we will do whatever it takes 
to meet their expectations.
There have been two critical developments 
toward giving governments and regula
-tors comfort on Recovery & Resolution, 
which, according to some key regulators, 
will e˛ectively end Too Big to Fail and will 
2626be completed in 2015. First, the regulators 
have almost ˚nished plans around total loss-
absorbing capacity, which will require large 
banks to hold a lot of additional long-term 
debt, which could be converted to equity in 
the event of a failure and thereby enable the 
˚rm to remain open to serve customers and 
markets. Second, the industry agreed to put 
in place speci˚c rules and guidelines on how 
to deal globally with derivatives contracts of 
a failed institution. This gives regulators and 
governments the knowledge that, in a failure, 
derivatives contracts can be properly managed 
and will not make the situation worse.
The industry will be stronger and safer 
because of all of the new regulations, and the 
future is bright for well-run banks
There is no question that, today, the global 
banking system is safer and stronger Œ 
possibly more so than it has ever been. 
That is not to say that the changes do 
not create a whole range of challenges, 
complexities and new risks (which we will 
talk about in the next section). But at the 
end of the day, the system will be safer 
 and more stable than ever. I may sound 
 a little like Voltaire™s optimistic character 
 Dr. Pangloss for saying this, but I am 
hopeful that in the next ˚ve to 10 years, 
 high-quality banks will be thriving in their work to support economies and help society.
2727We already have spoken about the fact that 
most of our strategy will stay essentially the 
same and that while some areas may require 
a little surgery, we strongly believe we will be 
able to successfully navigate the new world. 
Some of that surgery will slow down our growth a little bit in certain areas, but we are 
quite optimistic that we can grow in others. 
Most of our growth will be organic Š we have 
been doing this successfully for a decade Š 
and opportunities abound
We are optimistic that all of our businesses 
can grow, and, below, I describe some initia
-tives that are particularly exciting.
Chase Private Client started as a gleam in our eye 
back in 2010. 
Chase Private Client branches 
are dedicated to serving our a˝uent clients™ 
investment needs. From one test branch 
(which didn™t go very well, but, fortunately, 
we kept on trying), we now have more than 
2,500 Chase Private Client o˜ces. They now 
manage investments and deposits of $190 
billion. While the branch buildout is essen
-tially complete, we think the potential for 
growth remains large.
Small business. We are making our premier 
products and services work better together 
for a more holistic experience for our small 
business customers, whose time and attention 
should be spent on running their business, 
not going to the bank. We see a huge oppor
-tunity in this fragmented market Œ there is 
no dominant bank for the 28 million small 
businesses in the United States. At JPMorgan 
Chase, we serve 3.9 million American small 
businesses across Business Banking, Card 
Services and Chase Commerce Solutions, and 
we have successfully grown all of these busi
-nesses. We want to become the easiest bank 
to do business with, and we are working hard 
to speed applications, simplify forms and add 
digital conveniences. For example, we want a 
small business to ˚ll out an application that 
can qualify it for Ink
® (our small business 
credit card), Paymentech, deposits and loans 
all at once. We believe that if we bundle the 
services that small businesses really want 
and also provide meaningful advice, we can 
dramatically grow this business. Looking 
ahead, we know small businesses become 
large companies at a much more rapid pace 
than in years past. Serving these compa
-nies well now can solidify long-term client 
relationships that could span several lines of 
business in the future.
Excellent prospects for our Corporate & 
 Investment Bank.
 Our Corporate & Investment 
Bank is an example of a business that has 
had exceptional relative multi-year perfor
-mance. And even recently when it has been 
under a lot of regulatory pressure due to higher capital constraints and other regula-tory demands, the business has been able 
to earn a 13% return on equity1. It is an endgame winner, and it bene˚ts substan
-tially from the rest of the company, which 
helps drive its best-in-class results. 
However, in our current environment, we 
don™t expect a lot of growth or robust returns 
as we adjust to the new world. But we 
continue to believe that the long run is quite 
attractive. At Investor Day, we showed that 
the Corporate & Investment Bank in 2006 
was #1, #2 or #3 in eight of the 16 product 
categories that we are in. Now we are #1, #2 
or #3 in 15 of the 16 product categories that we are in. But the exciting part is a program 
that Daniel Pinto calls Path to #1, which 
shows when you divide those 16 businesses 
into sub-businesses and geographies, there 
are lots of areas where we are not close to #1, 
#2 or #3, and, in most of those places, we 
should be able to improve. So as the busi
-ness goes through an inordinate amount of change, the underlying needs of our clients 
continue to grow, and we will grow with 
them and believe we can gain share, too. 
IV.
WE HAVE A SOLID STRATEGY AND BELIEVE OUR 
FUTURE OUTLOOK IS VERY GOOD Š BUT, AS USUAL, 
THERE STILL ARE A LOT OF THINGS TO THINK AND 
WORRY ABOUT
1 Excludes legal expense
2828We are going to do a better job of covering 
family and private o˛ces in both the Private 
Bank and the Investment Bank.
 Family o˜ces 
have become larger, more sophisticated and 
more global, and they actively buy minority 
or whole stakes in businesses. More than 
2,300 families across the globe had assets of $1 billion or more in 2014. Together, they 
control over $7 trillion in assets, a number 
that has grown in excess of 10% since 2011. 
While J.P. Morgan already works with many 
of these families as clients, we believe we 
can do a far better job of providing the full 
range of products and services o˛ered by our 
Private Bank and Investment Bank. 
Private banking will grow for years.
 In Mary Erdoes™ Investor Day presentation, she 
showed that while we have the best private 
bank in the United States, our business still 
is rather small, and there is plenty of room 
to grow. This is even truer in Asia Paci˚c 
and Latin America. The chart below shows 
how strong our business is and illustrates 
that there is plenty of room to grow our 
market share internationally.
Retail banking presence still has room to grow.
 While we cannot acquire a retail bank in the 
United States, we can Œ and intend to Œ enter 
cities where we have never been. We will 
keep those cities we might choose to enter a 
surprise Œ but we hope to begin doing this 
in 2016. And remember, when we enter a 
city, we can bring the full force of JPMorgan 
Chase to bear, from retail, small business and 
private banking to middle market and local 
coverage of large corporations.
We particularly are excited about our payments 
business in total. The combination of Chase Paymentech, our merchant acquirer, 
ChaseNet, our proprietary Visa-supported 
network, and ChasePay, our proprietary 
wallet, allows us to o˛er merchants Œ 
large and small Œ better deals in terms of economics, simpler contracts, better data 
and more e˛ective marketing to their clients. 
It also allows us to better serve consumer 
clients with a wide variety of o˛ers and ease 
of use. We are going to be very aggressive in 
growing this business, and we will be disap
-pointed if we don™t announce some exciting 
and potentially market-changing ventures.
Trusted Advisor to the World™s Most Sophisticated Clients
1  PB = Private Bank; MS = Morgan Stanley; BAC = Bank of America (Merrill Lynch)
2929Big, fast data.
 We continue to leverage the 
data generated across JPMorgan Chase, as 
well as data that we purchase to create intel
-ligent solutions that support our internal activities and allow us to provide value and 
insights to our clients. For example, we are 
monitoring our credit card and treasury services transactions to catch fraudulent 
activities before they impact our clients, we 
are helping our clients mitigate costs by opti
-mizing the collateral they post in support of 
derivatives contracts, and we are highlighting 
insights to our merchant acquiring and 
co-brand partners. 
There always will be new emerging 
competitors that we need to keep an eye on
New competitors always will be emerging Œ 
and that is even truer today because of new 
technologies and large changes in regula
-tions. The combination of these factors will 
have a lot of people looking to compete 
with banks because they have fewer capital 
and regulatory constraints and fewer legacy 
systems. We also have a healthy fear of the 
potential e˛ects of an uneven playing ˚eld, 
which may be developing. Below are some 
areas that we are keeping an eye on. 
Large banks outside the United States are 
coming.
 In terms of pro˚tability, the top two 
Chinese banks are almost twice our size. 
Thirty years ago, Industrial and Commercial 
Bank of China operated in only a handful of countries, but it now has branches or 
subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. It has 
a huge home market and a strategic reason 
to follow the large, rapidly growing global 
Chinese multinationals overseas. It may take 
10 years, but we™d be foolish to discount their 
ambition and resources. We™re also seeing 
world-class banks emerge and grow in places 
like India and Brazil, and Japanese and Cana
-dian banks are coming on strong, too. Many 
of these banks are supported in their expan
-sionary e˛orts by their government and will 
not need to live by some of the same rules 
that we in the United States must adhere to, 
including capital requirements. We welcome 
the competition, but we are worried that an 
uneven playing ˚eld may hamper us many 
years from now. 
Silicon Valley is coming.
 There are hundreds 
of startups with a lot of brains and money 
working on various alternatives to tradi
-tional banking. The ones you read about 
most are in the lending business, whereby 
the ˚rms can lend to individuals and small 
businesses very quickly and Œ these enti
-ties believe Œ e˛ectively by using Big Data 
to enhance credit underwriting. They are 
very good at reducing the ﬁpain pointsﬂ in 
that they can make loans in minutes, which 
might take banks weeks. We are going to 
work hard to make our services as seam
-less and competitive as theirs. And we also 
are completely comfortable with partnering 
where it makes sense.
Competitors are coming in the payments area.
 You all have read about Bitcoin, merchants 
building their own networks, PayPal and 
PayPal look-alikes. Payments are a critical 
business for us Œ and we are quite good at it. 
But there is much for us to learn in terms of 
real-time systems, better encryption tech
-niques, and reduction of costs and ﬁpain 
pointsﬂ for customers. 
Some payments systems, particularly the 
ACH system controlled by NACHA, cannot 
function in real time and, worse, are continu
-ously misused by free riders on the system. 
There is a true cost to allowing people to move money. For example, it costs retailers 
50-70 basis points to use cash (due to preventing fraud and providing security, 
etc.). And retailers often will pay 1% to an 
intermediary to guarantee that a check is 
good. A guaranteed check essentially is the 
same as a debit card transaction for which 
they want to pay 0%. For some competi
-tors, free riding is the only thing that makes 
their competition possible. Having said that, 
we need to acknowledge our own ˙aws. We 
need to build a real-time system that prop-erly charges participants for usage, allows for 
good customer service, and minimizes fraud 
and bad behavior.
Rest assured, we analyze all of our competi
-tors in excruciating detail Œ so we can learn 
what they are doing and develop our own 
strategies accordingly. 
3030Cybersecurity, fraud and privacy need 
intensive investment on the part of your 

entire company, and we must do it in 

collaboration with the government and 

regulators
Matt Zames describes on page 40 some of the e˛orts we are making on cyber. What 

I want to emphasize to our shareholders is 

the absolute, critical and immediate need to 

combat cybersecurity threats and the related 
issues of ˚ghting fraud and protecting 
privacy. In these areas, we will do whatever it 

takes to protect the company and its clients. 

Regarding privacy, I do not believe that most 

people fully understand what no longer is 
private and how their information is being 

bought, sold and used. As a bank, we are 

appropriately restricted in how we can use 

our data, but we have found many exam
-
ples of our data being misused by a third 

party. We are going to be very aggressive in 

limiting and controlling how third parties 
can use JPMorgan Chase data.
It is critical that government and business 
and regulators collaborate e˛ectively and 

in real time. Cybersecurity is an area where 

government and business have been working 

well together, but there is much more to be 

done. And if it is not done in a concerted 

way, we all will pay a terrible price.
The banking system is far safer than it has 
been in the past, but we need to be mindful 

of the consequences of the myriad new 

regulations and current monetary policy 

on the money markets and liquidity in the 

marketplace Š particularly if we enter a 

highly stressed environment
There are many new rules, and, in conjunc
-tion with current monetary policy, they 

already are having a large e˛ect on money 

markets and liquidity in the marketplace. 

One famous scientist once said, ﬁA Rule of 

Three (ART): A statistical speci˚cation with 

more than three explanatory variables is 

meaningless.ﬂ Simply put, it is impossible to 

˚gure out the cumulative e˛ect of all these 
changes even in a benign environment. 

But what is far more important is what the 
e˛ect of these changes might be if we enter a 

stressed environment. As a risk policy matter, 

we need to make the assumption that there 

will be unpredictable and unintended conse-
quences Œ sometimes these are to good e˛ect, 

but what we need to worry about are those 

that have a potentially bad e˛ect. 
In the rest of this section, we will look at how 
the table is set Œ what is going on that is the 

same or di˛erent than in the past. Later in 

this section, we will speculate on what might 

happen di˛erently if we enter a new crisis.
Most important, we will enter the next crisis 
with a banking system that is stronger than it 
has ever been 
Each individual bank is safer than before, 
and the banking sector overall is stronger 

and sounder because, among other things: 
Ł Capital levels are far higher today than 

before the crisis and, by some measures, 

higher than they have ever been. For 

example, a very basic measure of capital, 

going back around 100 years, was a simple 

ratio of equity to assets. In the last six 

years, it™s back to high numbers not seen 

since the late 1930s.
Ł Highly liquid assets held by banks prob
-
ably are much higher than ever before.
Ł Many exotic and complex products are 

gone. 
Ł Many standardized derivatives are moving 

to clearinghouses.
Ł Both consumer and commercial loans are 
underwritten to better standards than 
before the crisis. 
Ł Transparency to investors is far higher.
Ł Boards and regulators are far more 
engaged.
3131But many things will be di˚erent Š for example, 
there will be far more risk residing in the central 
clearinghouses, and non-bank competitors will 
have become bigger lenders in the marketplace
Clearinghouses will be the repository of far 
more risk than they were in the last crisis 
because more derivatives will be cleared 
in central clearinghouses. It is important 
to remember that clearinghouses consoli-date Œ but don™t necessarily eliminate Œ risk. 
That risk, however, is mitigated by proper 
margining and collateral. We have long main
-tained that it is important to stress test central 
clearinghouses in a similar way that banks are 
stress tested to make sure the central clear
-inghouses™ capital and resources are su˜cient 
for a highly stressed environment. Clearing
-houses are a good thing but not if they are a 
point of failure in the next crisis.
Non-bank competitors are increasingly beginning to do basic lending in consumer, 
small business and middle market. In middle 
market syndicated lending, their share 
recently has increased from 3% a few years 
ago to 5% today, and many people esti
-mate that it will continue to increase over 
the years to come. There is nothing wrong 
with having competitors, including non-
bank competitors. However, they will act 
di˛erently from banks in the next stressed 
environment. I will write about this later in this section when we go through a thought 
exercise of the next crisis. 
There already is far less liquidity in the general 
marketplace: why this is important to issuers and 
investors
Liquidity in the marketplace is of value to 
both issuers of securities and investors in 
securities. For issuers, it reduces their cost of 
issuance, and for investors, it reduces their 
cost when they buy or sell. Liquidity can 
be even more important in a stressed time 
because investors need to sell quickly, and 
without liquidity, prices can gap, fear can 
grow and illiquidity can quickly spread Œ 
even in supposedly the most liquid markets. 
Some investors take comfort in the fact that 
spreads (i.e., the price between bid and ask) 
have remained rather low and healthy. But 
market depth is far lower than it was, and we 
believe that is a precursor of liquidity. For 
example, the market depth of 10-year Trea
-suries (de˚ned as the average size of the best 
three bids and o˛ers) today is $125 million, 
down from $500 million at its peak in 2007. The likely explanation for the lower depth in 
almost all bond markets is that inventories 
of market-makers™ positions are dramati
-cally lower than in the past. For instance, the 
total inventory of Treasuries readily avail
-able to market-makers today is $1.7 trillion, 
down from $2.7 trillion at its peak in 2007. Meanwhile, the Treasury market is $12.5 tril
-lion; it was $4.4 trillion in 2007. The trend 
in dealer positions of corporate bonds is similar. Dealer positions in corporate securi
-ties are down by about 75% from their 2007 
peak, while the amount of corporate bonds 
outstanding has grown by 50% since then. 
Inventories are lower Œ not because of one 
new rule but because of the multiple new 
rules that a˛ect market-making, including far 
higher capital and liquidity requirements and 
the pending implementation of the Volcker 
Rule. There are other potential rules, which 
also may be adding to this phenomenon. For 
example, post-trade transparency makes it 
harder to do sizable trades since the whole 
world will know one™s position, in short order. 
Recent activity in the Treasury markets and the 
currency markets is a warning shot across the bow
Treas
ury markets were quite turbulent in 
the spring and summer of 2013, when the 
Fed hinted that it soon would slow its asset 
purchases. Then on one day, October 15, 
2014, Treasury securities moved 40 basis 
points, statistically 7 to 8 standard deviations 
Œ an unprecedented move Œ an event that 
is supposed to happen only once in every 3 
billion years or so (the Treasury market has 
only been around for 200 years or so Œ of 
course, this should make you question statis
-tics to begin with). Some currencies recently have had similar large moves. Importantly, 
Treasuries and major country currencies are 
considered the most standardized and liquid ˚nancial instruments in the world. 
3232The good news is that almost no one was 
signi˚cantly hurt by this, which does show 
good resilience in the system. But this happened in what we still would consider 
a fairly benign environment. If it were to 
happen in a stressed environment, it could 
have far worse consequences.
Some things never change Š there will be 
another crisis, and its impact will be felt by 
the ˜nancial markets
The trigger to the next crisis will not be 
the same as the trigger to the last one Œ but there will be another crisis. Triggering events 
could be geopolitical (the 1973 Middle East crisis), a recession where the Fed rapidly 
increases interest rates (the 1980-1982 reces-sion), a commodities price collapse (oil in the 
late 1980s), the commercial real estate crisis 
(in the early 1990s), the Asian crisis (in 1997), 
so-called ﬁbubblesﬂ (the 2000 Internet bubble and the 2008 mortgage/housing bubble), 
etc. While the past crises had di˛erent roots 
(you could spend a lot of time arguing the 
degree to which geopolitical, economic or 
purely ˚nancial factors caused each crisis), 
they generally had a strong e˛ect across the 
˚nancial markets. 
While crises look di˛erent, the anatomy 
of how they play out does have common 
threads. When a crisis starts, investors try to 
protect themselves. First, they sell the assets 
they believe are at the root of the problem. 
Second, they generally look to put more of 
their money in safe havens, commonly selling 
riskier assets like credit and equities and 
buying safer assets by putting deposits in 
strong banks, buying Treasuries or purchasing 
very safe money market funds. Often at 
one point in a crisis, investors can sell only 
less risky assets if they need to raise cash 
because, virtually, there may be no market 
for the riskier ones. These investors include 
individuals, corporations, mutual funds, 
pension plans, hedge funds Œ pretty much 
everyone Œ each individually doing the right 
thing for themselves but, collectively, creating 
the market disruption that we™ve witnessed 
before. This is the ﬁrun-on-the-marketﬂ 
phenomenon that you saw in the last crisis.
And now, a thought exercise of what might be 
di˚erent in the next crisis
It sometimes is productive to conduct a 
thought exercise Œ in e˛ect trying to re-enact a 
ﬁrun on the marketﬂ but, in this case, applying 
the new rules to see what e˛ect they might 
have. Even though we must necessarily be 
prepared for a crisis at all times, we hope a 
real crisis is many years down the road. And 
in the United States, we would be entering 
the crisis with a banking system that is far 
stronger than in the past, which, on its own, 
could reduce the probability and severity of 
the next crisis. We are not going to guess at 
the potential cause of the crisis, but we will 
assume that, as usual, we will have the normal 
ﬁrun-on-the-marketﬂ type of behavior by inves
-tors. So let™s now turn to look at how a crisis 
might a˛ect the markets in the new world.
The money markets (deposits, repos, short-term 
Treasuries) will behave di˚erently in the next crisis
Ł Banks are required to hold liquid assets against 100% of potential cash out˙ows 
in a crisis. Liquid assets essentially are 
cash held at central banks, Treasuries 
and agency mortgage-backed securities. 
Out˙ows are an estimate of how much 
cash would leave the bank in the ˚rst 
30 days of a crisis. This would include 
things like deposit out˙ows, depending 
on the type of deposit, and revolver take-
downs, depending primarily on the type 
of borrower. In my opinion, banks and 
their board of directors will be very reluc
-tant to allow a liquidity coverage ratio 
below 100% Œ even if the regulators say 
it is okay. And, in particular, no bank will 
want to be the 
˜rst institution to report a liquidity coverage ratio below 100% for 
fear of looking weak.
Ł In a crisis, weak banks lose deposits, while 
strong banks usually gain them. In 2008, 
JPMorgan Chase™s deposits went up more 
than $100 billion. It is unlikely that we 
would want to accept new deposits the 
next time around because they would be 
considered non-operating deposits (short term in nature) and would require valu
-able capital under both the supplementary leverage ratio and G-SIB. 
3333Ł In a crisis, everyone rushes into Trea
-suries to protect themselves. In the last 
crisis, many investors sold risky assets 
and added more than $2 trillion to their ownership of Treasuries (by buying 
Treasuries or government money market 
funds). This will be even more true in the 
next crisis. But it seems to us that there 
is a greatly reduced supply of Treasuries 
to go around Œ in e˛ect, there may be a 
shortage of all forms of good collateral. 
Currently, $13 trillion of Treasuries are 
outstanding, but, according to our esti
-mates, less than half of this amount is 
e˛ectively free to be sold. Approximately 
$6 trillion is accounted for by foreign 
exchange reserve holdings for foreign 
countries that have a strong desire to 
hold Treasuries in order to manage their 
currencies. The Federal Reserve owns $2.5 
trillion in Treasuries, which it has said it 
will not sell for now; and banks hold $0.5 
trillion, which, for the most part, they are 
required to hold due to liquidity require-ments. Many people point out that the 
banks now hold $2.7 trillion in ﬁexcessﬂ 
reserves at the Federal Reserve (JPMorgan 
Chase alone has more than $450 billion at the Fed). But in the new world, these 
reserves are not ﬁexcessﬂ sources of 
liquidity at all, as they are required to 
maintain a bank™s liquidity coverage ratio. 
In a crisis, if banks turn away deposits, 
most investors will have other options, 
which include:
1. Buying Treasuries directly.
2. Buying money market funds, which 
own Treasuries.
3. Buying repos, which are collateralized 
by Treasuries. 
4. Investing directly at the Fed for a 
limited set of investors (government-
sponsored enterprises, money funds). 
5. Purchasing credit instruments like 
commercial paper. 
Buyers of credit (loans, secured loans, 
underwriting and investments) will be more 
reluctant to extend credit
Ł In the crisis, many banks lent against 
various forms of good collateral (but not 
necessarily the highest quality collateral) to help clients create liquidity and navi
-gate through the crisis. The collateral often 
came with signi˚cant haircuts and was of 
the type that banks thought they easily 
could risk-manage, and, for the most part, 
they did. In the last crisis, JPMorgan Chase 
did tens of billions of this type of lending. 
In the next crisis, banks will have a hard 
time increasing this type of credit because it will require capital and more liquidity.
Ł In a crisis, clients also draw down revolvers 
(for JPMorgan Chase alone, this peaked 
at approximately $20 billion at one point 
in 2009) Œ sometimes because they want 
to be conservative and have cash on hand 
and sometimes because they need the 
money. As clients draw down revolvers, 
risk-weighted assets go up, as will the 
capital needed to support the revolver. In 
addition, under the advanced Basel rules, 
we calculate that capital requirements can 
go up more than 15% because, in a crisis, 
assets are calculated to be even riskier. This 
certainly is very procyclical and would 
force banks to hoard capital. 
Ł In addition, banks may have a decrease 
in capital because new regulatory capital 
rules require losses on investment secu
-rities to reduce regulatory capital. This 
would be particularly true if interest rates 
were rising in the next crisis, which cannot 
be ruled out. (Typically, Treasury yields 
drop dramatically in a crisis, and that 
possibly could happen in this case, too, 
especially as they would be in short supply. 
But, again, one cannot rely on this.)
Ł In the last crisis, some healthy banks used 
their investment portfolios to buy and 
hold securities or loans. In the next crisis, 
banks will not be able to do that because buying most types of securities or loans would increase their RWA and reduce 
their liquidity.
3434Ł In the last crisis, banks underwrote (for 
other banks) $110 billion of stock issu
-ance through rights o˛erings. Banks 
might be reluctant to do this again 
because it utilizes precious capital and requires more liquidity. 
Ł It is my belief that in a crisis environ
-ment, non-bank lenders will not continue 
rolling over loans or extending new 
credit except at exorbitant prices that 
take advantage of the crisis situation. 
On the other hand, banks continued to 
lend at fair prices in the last crisis because of the long-term and total relationship involved. Banks knew they had to lend 
freely because e˛ectively they are the 
ﬁlender of last resortﬂ to their clients as the Federal Reserve is to the banks. 
This is a 
critical point: JPMorgan Chase and most other banks understood their vital role in actively lending to clients.
 In 2008 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase rolled over more 
than $260 billion of loans and credit facili-ties to small businesses, middle market 
companies and large companies, in addition 
to $18 billion for states and municipalities, 
hospitals and nonpro˚ts. We rolled over 
these capital and lending commitments to support our clients and always maintained 
fair (and not rapacious) pricing, re˙ecting 
our long-term relationship with them. The markets in general could be more volatile 
Š this could lead to a more rapid reduction of 
valuations
The items mentioned above (low inventory, 
reluctance to extend credit, etc.) make it more 
likely that a crisis will cause more volatile 
market movements with a rapid decline 
in valuations even in what are very liquid 
markets. It will be harder for banks either as 
lenders or market-makers to ﬁstand against 
the tide.ﬂ
But the American ˜nancial markets and, more 
important, the American economy generally have 
been extraordinarily resilient
Banks may be less able to act positively in 
the next crisis, but they also are far stronger 
and unlikely, in our opinion, to create the 
next crisis. Many other actors in the ˚nancial 
system, from hedge funds to long-term inves
-tors, including corporations and large money 
managers, will, at some point, step in and buy 
assets. The government, of course, always is 
able to step in and play an important role. 
In addition, regulators can improve the 
liquidity rules to allow banks to provide 
liquidity on a more ﬁgraduatedﬂ basis against 
more types of assets and give more ˙exibility 
on the ﬁmarginﬂ than is required. That is, they 
can give themselves both gas and brakes; i.e., 
change liquidity rules to ˚t the environment. 
In addition, we should try to eliminate procy
-clical rules, which can exacerbate a crisis. 
Fundamentally, as long as the economy is not 
collapsing, ˚nancial markets generally recover. 
Whatever the turn of events, JPMorgan Chase 
will have the capability to play its role in 
supporting clients and communities in the 
countries in which we operate. 
 3535V.We want to be a standard-bearer in the 
industry when it comes to meeting the heightened standards demanded by our regu
-lators Œ and not just because it™s required 
but because we think it™s the right thing to 
do for our shareholders, clients, employees 
and communities. And we want to do this 
across all measures Œ from our controls to board governance, the cultivating of a 
strong culture and how we are ˚ghting cyber 
attacks to how we treat our clients. It starts 
at the top Œ with the Board of Directors.
Your Board is fully engaged in all critical 
matters
The entire Board is fully engaged in the a˚airs of 
the company.
 Board members are fully engaged 
in the company, from setting the agenda of 
the Board meetings to reviewing strategy and 
demanding strong controls to determining 
CEO compensation and succession planning. 
Board members also are increasingly engaged 
in regulatory and shareholder a˛airs. Several 
of the Board members meet regularly with 
our key regulators and major shareholders.
Management succession planning is a priority of 
the Board.
 Regarding succession planning, 
the Board always must be prepared for the 
ﬁhit-by-the-busﬂ scenario (which, of course, 
is not my preference), but ongoing succes
-sion planning for the medium and long term 
is the highest priority of the Board. Impor-tantly, our Board members have complete 
access to and relationships with the key 
senior people and continually interact with them, both formally and informally. Both the 
Board members and I believe that, under all 
scenarios, this company has several capable 
potential successors. 
The full Board meets without the CEO at every 
Board meeting.
 Going way back to Bank One™s 
Board more than a decade ago and before 
it was mandated, the Board would meet 
without the CEO (that™s me) because we all 
thought it was best for Board members to 
have an open conversation about the CEO 
and the company without feeling any pres
-sure. The Board continues that practice 
today. New rules mandate that directors meet 
at least once a year without the CEO Œ yet 
our Board does so at every Board meeting; 
i.e., eight times a year. And usually at the 
end of the session, the Lead Director comes 
to see me to give feedback and guidance 
about what the Board is thinking and what it wants. 
We have a strong corporate culture Š but we 
must continuously strengthen it
JPMorgan Chase has served its shareholders, 
customers and communities with distinc-tion for more than 200 years. Since we were 
founded, our company has been guided by a 
simple principle that perhaps was best artic
-ulated by J.P. Morgan, Jr., in 1933, when he 
said: ﬁI should state that at all times, the idea 
of doing only ˚rst-class business, and that in 
a ˚rst-class way, has been before our minds.ﬂ 
We continue to strive to meet that principle.
Acknowledging mistakes Š and learning from 
them Š is part of the fabric of this company. 
We 
also recognize that we have made a number 
of mistakes Œ some of them quite painful 
and costly Œ over the last several years. One 
of the things we learned was that we needed 
to redouble our e˛orts around culture Œ not 
reinvent our culture but recommit to it and 
ensure that it is an enduring strength of this institution. While we have done an extensive 
amount of work over the past year and a half 
to make sure we get this right, we know that 
it can™t be a one-time e˛ort. It™s like keeping 
physically ˚t Œ you can™t get in shape and 
expect to stay that way if you stop exercising. 
WE HAVE A FULLY ENGAGED BOARD, AN EXCEPTIONAL 
MANAGEMENT TEAM AND A STRONG CORPORATE 
CULTURE 
3636Our e˛orts around culture and conduct are 
substantial and include the following:
We will continuously reinforce our business 
principles. Back in July 2004 at the close of 
the JPMorgan Chase and Bank One merger, 
we sent a small blue book to all employees 
outlining the capabilities of the combined 
˚rm, as well as our mission and business 
principles. While much has changed over 
the past decade, our commitment to these 
principles remains the same. In July 2014, we 
marked the 10-year anniversary of JPMorgan 
Chase and Bank One coming together to 
form this exceptional company. It was ˚tting 
that on this special occasion, we rededicated 
ourselves to those same business principles 
by distributing the rearticulated business 
principles on How We Do Business to every 
person in the company. These core princi
-ples (which are written in plain English and 
include lots of speci˚c examples) describe 
how we want to conduct business, and they 
will continue to guide us as we move forward. 
What we are doing 
di˜erently today is that 
we are taking substantial actions to continu
-ously inculcate our employees and our leader
-ship on these principles:Ł We want to make the How We Do Busi
-ness principles part of every major conver
-sation at the company Œ from the hiring, 
onboarding and training of new recruits to 
town halls and management meetings. 
Ł We conduct a substantial amount of 
ongoing training and certi˚cation, from 
the Code of Conduct for all employees 
to the Code of Ethics for Finance Profes
-sionals that applies to the CEO, Chief 
Financial O˜cer, Controller and all profes
-sionals of the ˚rm worldwide serving in a 
˚nance, accounting, corporate treasury, tax 
or investor relations role. 
Ł We have enhanced our leadership 
training. We have thousands of educa
-tional programs, and we have consistently 
trained the top several hundred people on 
leadership. But we did not train people 
when they became ˚rst-time managers 
or, importantly, managers of managers. 
This will be another opportunity to drive 
home our How We Do Business principles. 
The heart of this training provides the 
chance to teach our leadership how to do 
the right thing Œ not the easy thing Œ and to continually reinforce the principle of 
treating others in the way you would like 
to be treated. Ł We also developed a pilot program within 
our Corporate & Investment Bank in 
Europe, the Middle East and Africa on 
How We Do Business, which includes 
focus groups and other e˛orts to analyze 
cultural themes and address any concerns 
around conduct and behavior. This year, 
we have taken the learnings from that pilot 
and will be rolling them out in a global, 
˚rmwide Culture and Conduct Program. 
These initiatives will make us a better 
company. We hope they will reduce any bad 
behavior. No human endeavor can ever be 
perfect, but we are hopeful that as incidences 
of bad behavior decline and as management™s 
responses to bad behavior are vigorous, 
governments and regulators will appreciate 
the intensity of our e˛orts. 
Compensation has been consistent and 
fair and is awarded with proper pay-for-
performance
Our long-term success depends on the talents of our employees. And our ˚rm™s compensa
-tion system plays a signi˚cant role in our 
ability to attract, retain and motivate the 
highest quality workforce. We design our 
compensation program to encompass best practices, support our business objectives 
and enhance shareholder value. For example:
Ł We do not have change-of-control agree
-ments, special executive retirement plans, 
golden parachutes or things like special 
severance packages for senior executives.
Ł We do not pay bonuses for completing a 
merger, which we regard as part of the job. 
(When a merger has proved successful, 
compensation might go up.)
3737Ł We virtually have no private ﬁdealsﬂ or 
multi-year contracts for senior management.
Ł We always have looked at ˚nancial perfor
-mance as a critical factor, but not the only 
factor, in pay-for-performance. We have 
formulas (which always have been prop
-erly charged for capital usage) for how we 
accrue compensation, but we do not pay it 
out in a formulaic way to anyone. Finan
-cial performance alone is not a compre
-hensive picture of performance. Broader 
contributions are important, like qualita
-tive skills such as leadership attributes, 
character and integrity, and management 
ability. This also includes recruiting, 
coaching and training, building better 
systems and fostering innovation, just to 
name a few. 
Ł We also have invoked comprehensive 
clawbacks of previously granted awards 
and/or repayment of previously vested 
awards when we thought it was appro
-priate. In 2014 alone, more than 200 
employees had compensation reduced for 
risk- and control-related events. Impor
-tantly, many more than that were termi
-nated for poor performance or ethical 
lapses during the course of the year. 
Compensation alone is not enough, and one 
should not confuse good compensation with good 
morale.
 Getting compensation right is crit
-ical Œ everyone wants to feel they are being 
paid fairly, and most people have other 
alternatives. But proper compensation alone 
is not enough. I have seen many companies 
try to make up for politics, bureaucracy and 
low morale with high compensation Œ it 
does not work. When a company has been 
doing poorly, or treats its customers badly, 
the company should expect low morale. 
What employees want to see is that the 
company faces its issues, reduces politics 
and bureaucracy, and improves customer 
service and satisfaction. Maintaining a 
corporate culture where the right people 
are promoted and everyone is treated with 
respect is as important as compensation. 
Then morale will improve, and employees 
will be proud of where they work every day.
We need to operate like a partnership.
 If, for 
example, a company™s largest, and perhaps 
most important, business unit is under 
enormous stress and strain, unlikely to earn 
money regardless of who is in charge, a 
manager might ask his or her best leader to take on the job of running that business. This 
may be the toughest job in the company, 
one that will take years to work through 
before the ship has been righted. When the 
manager asks a leader to take on the respon
-sibility, she quite appropriately will want to 
know whether she will be supported in the toughest of times: ﬁWill you make sure the 
organization doesn™t desert me?ﬂ ﬁWill you 
stop the politics of people using my unit™s 
poor performance against me?ﬂ ﬁWill you 
compensate me fairly?ﬂ My answer to these 
questions would be yes. And as long as I 
thought she was doing the job well, I would 
want to pay her like our best leaders, pro˚ts 
aside. Conversely, we all know that a rising 
tide lifts all boats. When that™s the case, 
paying that leader too much possibly is the 
worst thing one can do Œ because it teaches 
people the wrong lesson.We still believe deeply in share ownership. 
We 
would like all our senior managers to have 
a large portion of their net worth in the 
company. We believe this fosters partner
-ship. While some make the argument that it 
causes excessive risk taking Œ we disagree. 
The ˚rst people to lose all of their money if 
a company fails are the shareholders and the 
management team. We want your manage
-ment team to be good stewards of your 
capital and to treat it as they would their 
own. It is formulaic compensation plans, 
where people are paid solely on ˚nancial performance, that can cause undue risky and 
bad behavior.
The entire Operating Committee gets involved 
in compensation Š it is not done in a back room. 
One way we make sure we are fair and 
just with compensation is that the entire 
Operating Committee spends a substantial 
amount of time reviewing the compensation 
of our top 500 people Œ this way, we have 
3838internal justice, we can review someone™s 
total performance across all measures, 
and we can understand how a manager 
manages up, down and across the organiza
-tion Œ not just up. 
We want to have the best people, and competi
-tive compensation is critical.
 We must 
continue to pay our people properly, 
competitively and well for doing a good job. 
It is imperative at JPMorgan Chase that we 
continue to attract and retain the best.We treat all of our people fairly.
 While we 
generally talk about compensation for the 
most senior managers, the compensation 
levels of our entire employee population 
are fairly similar to that of the U.S. popula
-tion™s household income distribution. We 
invest a signi˚cant amount of time and 
money to ensure that all of our employees 
are properly compensated. We still have 
a de˚ned bene˚t pension plan for most 
of our employees that provides a ˚xed 
income upon retirement to supplement Social Security and any other savings they 
have. We also provide a 401(k) plan with 
matching dollars. In addition, we have excel
-lent healthcare plans that incentivize people to take care of themselves. For example, 
premiums are lower if an employee gets 
an annual physical examination or stops 
smoking. We also subsidize these health
-care plans more for lower paid employees 
(at 90%) versus our higher paid employees 
(who are at 50%). And each year, we are 
recognized as a great place to work by 
various groups, including 
Working Mothe
r 100 Best Companies, Top 100 Military 
Friendly Employers by 
G.I. Jobs
 magazine 
and Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles 
by the National Business Group on Health, 
among many others.
As we centralize all risk functions, we also 
must be certain that line of business CEOs 
remain empowered to manage their business 
end to end We always have tried to be very thoughtful 
about which functions are centralized or 
decentralized at the company. We always 
have centralized functions that can create 
huge economies of scale like data centers or 
utilities that are used by the entire company 
(like general ledgers and payroll) or critical 
control functions (like Corporate Legal, 
 ˚rmwide accounting policies, etc.). We try 
 to decentralize where we can and when it 
makes sense to do so. For example, while a 
 lot of ˚nance functions reside at Corpo-rate (like accounting policy), some ˚nance 
people are devoted to only one line of 
business, so we keep them within that line 
of business. We do this to provide direct 
accountability, speed up decision making 
and minimize bureaucracy. 
In the new world, in order to improve the 
consistency of controls, regulators have 
demanded that most risk and control func-tions be centralized, including Risk, Compli
-ance, Finance, Oversight & Control, Audit 
and Legal. In doing this, we have given huge 
amounts of additional authority to functions 
at our corporate headquarters. Corporate 
headquarters can sometimes forget that it 
exists only because there is a banker in front 
of a client somewhere. The Home Depot, one 
of America™s great companies, does not call its 
corporate headquarters the corporate head-quarters Œ it™s called Store Support Center to 
remind employees every day why they are 
there: to support the stores and the clients. 
This still remains true at JPMorgan Chase 
Œ we at Corporate would not be here if we 
didn™t have our bankers in front of clients.
We need to work hard to get the best of both 
centralization and decentralization. 
And we 
need to manage Corporate so the line of busi-ness CEOs and management teams are fully responsible and empowered to manage their 
businesses. Centralization should not mean 
demoralizing bureaucracy or slowing down services as multiple committees and layers 
3939sign o˛ on every decision and sti˙e innova
-tion. We have been managing through this 
process with our eyes wide open. The Oper
-ating Committee members of the company 
spend a considerable amount of time to make sure we get this right. 
We need to develop the right culture and avoid 
creating a culture of ˜nger-pointing. 
We need 
to analyze our mistakes because that is 
the only way we can ˚x them and consis
-tently improve. But we cannot allow this to 
devolve into crippling bureaucratic activity 
or create a culture of backstabbing and 
blame. We need to develop a safe environ
-ment where people can raise issues and admit and analyze mistakes without fear of 
retribution. We must treat people properly 
and respectfully Œ even if we have to make 
tough decisions. 
I believe this company currently has the best 
management team with whom I have ever 
been associated Œ and I mean their character, 
culture and capabilities. I now ask questions 
that I did not ask when I was a younger 
manager: ﬁWould I want to work for these 
managers?ﬂ ﬁWould I want my children to 
work for these managers?ﬂ My answer would 
not always have been yes, but now it is. These 
leaders have navigated the last several years 
with fortitude and a smile, driving results, 
making tough decisions and treating each 
other as complete partners. They are the 
reason why both performance and morale 
remain strong in this environment. 
CLOSING COMMENTS
Jamie Dimon
 Chairman and Chief Executive O˜cer
April 8, 2015
I feel enormously fortunate to be part of the remarkable 200-year 
journey of this exceptional company. 
I wish you all could see our employees and your management team at 
work, particularly in these challenging times. If you did, I know that 
you, like me, would be bursting with appreciation and pride and have 
great comfort in knowing that our wonderful legacy will continue.
