2Dear Fellow Shareholders,
Your company earned a record $19.0 billion in 2011, up 9% from the record 
earnings of $17.4 billion in 2010.
Our return on tangible equity for 2011 was 15% Š the same as last year. 
Relative to our competitors and given the prevailing economic environment, 

this is a good result. On an absolute and static basis, we believe that 

our earnings should be $23 billion Œ $24 billion. The main reason for the 

di˜erence between what we 
are
 earning and what we 
should be earning 
continues to be high costs and losses in mortgage and mortgage-related 

issues. While these losses are increasingly less severe, they will still persist 

at elevated levels for a while longer. Looking ahead, we believe our earnings 

power should grow over time, though we always expect volatility in our 

earnings Š it is the nature of the various businesses we operate.
2011 was another year of challenges for JPMorgan Chase, the ˚nancial 
services industry and the economies of many countries around the world. 

In addition to the ongoing global economic uncertainty, other traumatic 

events Š such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the debt ceiling 

˚asco in the United States, revolutions in the Middle East and the European 

debt crisis Š have impeded recovery. In the face of these tragic events and 

unfortunate setbacks, the frustration with Š and hostility toward Š our 

industry continues. We acknowledge it and respect people™s right to express 

themselves. However, we all have an interest in getting the economy and job 

creation growing again.
In the face of many di˛cult challenges, JPMorgan Chase is trying to do its 
part. We have not retrenched. Just the opposite Š we have stepped up. 
Over the past year, our people demonstrated once again that the work we 
do matters. We positively impact the lives of millions of people and the 

communities in which they live. Our duty is to serve them by stepping into 

the arena each day and putting our resources and our voices to work on 

their behalf. For us, standing on the sidelines simply is not an option.
3Jamie Dimon,Chairman and  

Chief Executive O˛cer
During 2011, the ˚rm raised capital and provided credit of over $1.8 trillion 
for our commercial and consumer clients, up 18% from the prior year. 

We provided more than $17 billion of credit to U.S. small businesses, up 

52% over last year. We raised capital or provided credit of $68 billion for 

more than 1,200 not-for-pro˚t and government entities, including states, 

municipalities, hospitals and universities. We also issued new credit cards 

to 8.5 million people and originated more than 765,000 mortgages. To 

help struggling homeowners, we have o˜ered over 1.2 million mortgage 

modi˚cations since 2009 and completed more than 450,000. 
We also bought back $9 billion of stock and recently received permission 
to buy back an additional $15 billion of stock during the remainder of 2012 

and the ˚rst quarter of 2013. We reinstated our annual dividend to $1.00 a 

share in April 2011 and recently announced that we are increasing it to $1.20 

a share in April 2012. And we continued to build our business by heavily 

investing in infrastructure, systems, technology and new products and by 

adding bankers and branches around the world. 
4The best way to build shareholder value is to build a great company, with 
exemplary products and services, excellent systems, quality accounting and 

reporting, e˜ective controls and outstanding people. If you continually build 

a great company, the stock price will follow. Normally, we don™t comment on 

the stock price. However, we make an exception in Section VIII of this letter 

because we are buying back a substantial amount of stock and because 

there are many concerns about investing in bank stocks. 
We believe you own an exceptional company. Each of our businesses is among 
the best in the world, and record earnings were matched by increased market 

share in most of our businesses. Most importantly, we have outstanding 

people working at every level in every business across the economic 

spectrum and around the world. This is no accident Œ we work hard to bring 

people with character, integrity and intelligence into this company. 
There is always room for improvement, but the strengths that are embedded 
in this company Š our people, client relationships, product capabilities, 

technology, global presence and fortress balance sheet Š provide us with a 

foundation that is rock solid and an ability to thrive regardless of what the 

future brings.
New and Renewed Capital and Credit for Our Clients
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˙ˇ


ˆ˛
“‘
˝



•ˇˆ˛‡˚…ˇ˛‡˙ˇ
˜˚˚˛
˜˚˝˛˜˙˛
˜ˆˇ˛˙
˜˘ˇ
˜˘˝


˜˘˚˚ˇ˚
˜
˝
˜˘ˇ
˜˘˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˘ˇ˙ˆ˛
˜˚˘˝˘
˜˘
˜˘˝
˜˘˚˚
˘˚
˘˚
˘˚
˚˛˝˙˛˝ˆˇ˘˜˚

˚
5In this letter, I will focus my comments on the important issues a˜ecting 
your company, including some of the regulatory and political issues  

facing us. 
The main sections of the letter are as follows: 

I. Our mission and how w
e operate to ful˚ll our role in society 
II. A brief update on our major initiatives
III. The new One C
hase Š strengthening the customer experience
IV.
  An intense f
ocus in 2012 on adapting our businesses successfully to the 
new regulatory framework
V.
 Commen
ts on global ˚nancial reform
VI. The mortg
age business Š the good, the bad and the ugly VII. Commen
ts on the future of investment banking and the critical role  
 of market makin
gVIII. Why w
ould you want to own the stock?
IX. Closing
 6We are constantly asked the question of what 
comes ˜rst in your company Œ customers, 

employees, shareholder value or being a good 

corporate citizen Œ which implies a need to 

favor one over the other. We disagree with 

this view. We must serve them all well. If we 

fail at any one, the whole enterprise su˚ers.
Our customers, employees, shareholder 
value and communities 
all come ˜rst
Many people seem to think that shareholder 
value means pro˜t and that a company 

earns more pro˜t by giving customers or 

employees less. This has not been our expe-

rience. Our job is to build a healthy and 

vibrant company that satis˜es clients, invests 

in its people Œ through training, opportunity 

and compensation Œ and rewards its share-

holders. When this is done well, everyone 

bene˜ts. At the same time, a company needs 

to be successful ˜nancially because if it isn™t, 

it ultimately will fail. And when a company 

fails, everyone loses. 
How we view our customers Š we wouldn™t 
be here without them
There would be no company but for our 
customers. Without our consumer or corpo-

rate clients Œ and satis˜ed ones at that Œ 
there would be no pro˜ts, no bankers, no 

sta˚ and no CEO. 
At JPMorgan Chase, we believe that 
customers should be treated like we would 

want to be treated ourselves. Customers 

usually don™t mind paying a fair price for 

a product or service they need, particularly 

if it is delivered well and accompanied 

with a smile. We are constantly looking for 

better ways to provide, combine and deliver 

products that meet or exceed our customers™ 

expectations. And we try to listen closely to 

our customers Œ even when they complain Œ 

because they are doing us a service by telling 

us how we could do better. It means a lot to 

a customer when we respond not only by 

listening but also by actually changing.
How we view our employees Š they do it all
Doing a great job starts with great 
employees. We look for high-quality people 

with the capability to do a great job and 
grow with the ˜rm. Then we train and 

empower them to do the right thing as best 

they can; to understand and anticipate their 

customers™ needs; and, in e˚ect, to be their 

advocate. To do this, each employee needs 

help from the rest of the company. 
There are many employees who work behind 
the scenes that the customers do not see Œ 
such as programmers, assistants, network 

engineers, operations clerks and others. But 

these are the professionals we depend upon 

to help us seamlessly deliver integrated and 

complex products.
And all of our employees drive innovation. 
They have the knowledge and the deep 

understanding to ˜nd ways Œ large and small 

Œ to improve a system, streamline a process, 

and save time and money by making things 

work better for everybody. 
How we view our communities Š they are 
our hosts, our customers and our future
Doing the right thing for shareholders also 
means being a good corporate citizen. If you owned a small business (e.g., the 
corner grocery store in a small town), more 

likely than not, you would be a good citizen 

by keeping the snow and ice o˚ the sidewalk 

in front of your store or by contributing to a 

local Little League team, school or commu-

nity center. You would participate in the 

community, and everyone would be better 

o˚ because of your contributions. As a large 

company that operates in 2,000 communities 

around the world, we should act no di˚er-

ently. We participate at the local level by 

providing corporate support and by asking 

our associates to get involved in the towns 

where they live. We also participate in large-

scale, country-wide and sometimes global 

projects, but the intent is the same Œ to 

improve the world in which we live.
 I. OUR MISSION AND HO
W WE OPERATE TO FULFILL OUR 
   
ROLE IN SOCIETY
 7In 2011, JPMorgan Chase contributed more 
than $200 million directly to community 
organizations and local not-for-pro˜ts. Our 

employees also provided nearly 375,000 

hours of volunteer service through our Good 

Works program in local communities. 
However, our e˚orts go well beyond philan
-thropic works. We ˜nance and advise cities, 

states, municipalities, hospitals and univer
-sities Œ not just about ˜nancial a˚airs but 

also in related areas of governance, growth 

and sustainability. In 2011, we launched 

The Brookings JPMorgan Chase Global 

Cities Initiative with a $10 million commit
-
ment to help the 100 largest U.S. metropol
-
itan areas become more competitive in the 

global economy. 
Our business also provides dedicated exper-
tise and ˜nancing for economically chal-

lenged areas of the world. For example, we 

partner with multiple global institutions, 

such as the U.S. Agency for International 

Development and the Bill & Melinda Gates 

Foundation, to help launch and support 

businesses that directly bene˜t small and 
rural farmers in Africa. Additionally, we are 

able to bring private capital to bear on scale 

solutions to global health problems such as 

tuberculosis and malaria. And we have just 

launched a philanthropic program focusing 

on entrepreneurship in South Africa. 
I would like to mention one initiative of 
which we are particularly proud. After making 

some embarrassing mistakes with active 

military personnel, we redoubled our e˚orts 

to help military personnel and veterans Œ men 

and women to whom we owe a tremendous 

debt of gratitude for the sacri˜ces they have 

made Œ get jobs and transition out of active 

service to civilian life. Our e˚orts are working 

Œ over the past 12 months we have hired more 

than 3,000 veterans.
In short, we are part of our communities in 
every way possible Œ from the largest coun-

tries to the smallest towns. 
It™s a big responsibility to be a bank Š and 
communities are better o˚ if we do it well
If the ˜nancial crisis has taught us anything, 
it has taught us that being a strong bank 
in good times and, more important, in bad 

times is critical to the customers, communi-
ties and countries we serve around the world. 

Every day, our customers need us to deliver 

cash of $600 million and to reliably and 
quickly move $10 trillion around the world, 

where and when it is needed. Our customers 
trust us to safeguard $17 trillion of their 
assets under custody, manage $1.9 trillion of 

assets under supervision and protect $1.1 tril-
lion of their deposits.
We provide our consumer and business 
customers with more than $700 billion 
outstanding of loans. We also are prepared to 

lend them an additional $975 billion, under 

committed lines, if they need it. Customers 

count on us to be there for them. And if 

we fail to do our job, they may fail as well. 

Money and credit are like oxygen for the 

economy. And like the oxygen you breathe, 

you really notice it when it is not there. 
Unfortunately, sometimes we have to decline 
a customer request. Extending credit is 
important, but avoiding making bad loans Œ 

as we all learned again in this crisis Œ also is 

important. It is hard to turn down a custom-
er™s request and then try to explain why: We 

may think the loan represents too much risk, 

not only for us but also for the customer. We 

don™t always make friends doing this Œ but it 

is the right thing to do. 
Conversely, we cannot be a fair-weather 
friend. Clients, communities and countries 

want to know that we are going to be there 

particularly when times are tough. And when 
times are tough, we focus more on helping 

clients survive than on generating pro˜ts. 

That is in their Œ and our Œ long-term interest. 
Europe is one ongoing example where we 
currently are applying this philosophy. When 

Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain got 

into trouble, we decided to stay the course. 

Our exposures, as reported last year, to those 

countries (primarily Italy and Spain) were 

maintained at approximately $15 billion. 

And we estimated that, in a bad outcome, we 

could lose $3 billion, after-tax. (Under really 

terrible circumstances; i.e., large countries 

exiting the euro Œ where the currency at settle
-
ment is uncertain for the assets, liabilities 

and contracts at issue Œ those losses could be 

even larger.) These exposures are primarily 

loans to businesses and sovereign nations, 
8as well as some market making. Even if the 
worst outcome occurs, we believe that we still 

made the right decision by being there for our 

clients. We hope to be doing business in these 

countries for decades to come.
We focus on
 ﬁquality
ﬂ pro˜ts Š not 
quarterly pro˜ts 
If we wanted to increase this quarter™s 
or next quarter™s pro˜ts, we could Œ and 

we could do it easily. How? By cutting 

marketing expenses by $500 million or elim
-
inating another $500 million of investments 

in technology, training or systems upgrades. 

We also could add another $1 billion to 

our pro˜ts by increasing our interest rate 

exposure or credit risk. But this is not the 

way to build a healthy and vibrant company 

for the future or to produce what we would 

call ﬁquality pro˜ts.ﬂ In actuality, our pro˜ts 

re˛ect decisions made over many years. The 

breadth and depth of our client relation-
ships today have been built over decades. 

Our people have been hired and trained over 

decades. Our branches Œ whether retail or 

wholesale Œ have been serving our clients 

for decades. Our investments in technology 

and product innovation typically are multi
-
year in nature. Our institutional knowledge 

and experience have been passed along 

generationally for more than 200 years. And 

the JPMorgan Chase reputation Œ that we, 

and our predecessors, have worked hard to 

earn Œ every day Œ has endured for more 

than two centuries.
All revenue isn™t good; all expenses  
aren™t bad
It always surprises me when people assume 
that all revenue is good and that all 

expenses are bad. Low-quality revenue is 

easy to produce, particularly in ˜nancial 

services. Poorly underwritten loans repre
-
sent income today and losses tomorrow. 

And an e˝ciently run company is not 

the result of indiscriminate cost cutting. 

All expenses are not equal, which is why 

I always refer to waste cutting and not 

expense cutting. Many expenses actually 

are ﬁgood expenses.ﬂ If you are reading 

this letter on an airplane, you easily can 

understand my meaning Œ a good expense 
would focus on properly maintaining that 

airplane. In the same way, you want to 

see your company continuing to invest in 

innovation and technology, marketing new 

products, hiring employees and opening 

branches. Our ability to distinguish 

between good and bad expenses should 

lead to higher pro˜ts in the future. 
The reason we generally have been able 
to avoid major expense-cutting initiatives 

is because we continuously try to avoid 

wasteful spending. And much of our e˝-

cient cost structure comes from ongoing 
investment in technology and operations 

and from rigorous attention to detail. We 

strive to become an increasingly e˝cient 

company. E˝ciency is a virtuous cycle 

Œ we can continuously invest more, save 

more, give our clients more Œ and still have 

healthy margins. 
We build our operating company at a 
detailed level
While JPMorgan Chase has six lines of busi-
ness that we report publicly, we essentially 

operate 60-70 businesses within and across 
the six lines of business. Each of these busi-

nesses is expected to attract great manage-

ment, deliver best-in-class products and 

services, and earn a good margin Œ while 

making proper investments in its future. 
We want each of these businesses to build 
quality assets (i.e., well-underwritten loans 

and books that are properly marked) and to 

account properly for all liabilities. We believe 

appropriately conservative accounting at a 

granular level leads to quality earnings and 

helps prepare each of our businesses to with
-
stand tough challenges and to be there in 

tough times for our clients. 
JPMorgan Chase builds its business on the 
credo ﬁ˜rst-class business in a ˜rst-class 
way,ﬂ and we stick to that credo even when 

it means forgoing fees or declining a deal 

that we do not think is in the best interest 

of our client. And rigorous client selection 

Œ ensuring a high-quality clientele Œ is the 
foundation of a strong bank. 
If we keep doing what I have described 
above, you will not only be proud of 
 this company, but, we hope, happy with 

your investment.
 9In our vibrant, extremely powerful and 
complex economic ecosystem, there are 27 

million U.S. businesses. Some facts: 




employ
ees. 

employ
ee Š they are sole proprietorships. 



employ
ees. 




million jobs, or 49% of U.S
. payroll employ





51% of priv
ate sector jobs Š and the largest 



another 21 million work f
or the government, 
85% for state and municipal governments 
Š jobs that include our teachers, postal 






creation in the United States Š and these 

misunderstandings frequently lead to 
misguided policy. We often talk about the  

net change in employment (clearly an 


net new jobs cr
eated. But it masks the fact 
that the numbers change enormously 








more jobs than that ar
e created most years. 
In our economy, businesses continuously 

morph and change; they outsource or 

insource jobs; some grow, some shrink and 

some merge. New companies Š big and small 

Š are created, and, unfortunately, some of 

those companies Š big and small Š fail.  
IT™S NOT
 SMALL BUSINESS VS. B
IG BUSINESS  Š THEY ARE SYMBIOTIC AND THE ENGINE OF AMERICA™S GROWTH




bought out or mer
ged with another. Small 
companies sometimes morph into big ones 







rec
essions, lack of innovation and bad 




be a stultifyin
g lack of change, inability to 
adopt new technologies, in˚exibility and, 

ultimately, lower growth. 
We often read that small business is the 
primary driver of new jobs Š this is both 

incorrect and overly simplistic. Sometimes 

those net new jobs appear in small busi

nesses, and sometimes they appear in large 

businesses. In fact, recent studies show that 

large companies generally are more stable 

over time and that their employment goes 

down less during recessions. 
expenditur
es and R&D spending drive produc
tivity and innovation, which, ultimately, drive 
job creation across the entire economy. In 







annually on capital expenditur
es, and the top 


Big businesses are capable of makin
g huge 




inv
estments create lots of jobs. Many studies 






jobs are gener
ated outside the plant Š from 


jobs appear in small businesses.It is wor
th noting that both large and small 


collabor
ation with the government in making 


people started and paid f
or the Hoover 
Dam, the interstate highway system and the 

landing on the moon. But the Hoover Dam 



businesses, the inter
state highway system 





companies Š and all of these pr
ojects were 
supported by small business.
So when you read that small business and 
big business are pitted against each other or 

are not good for each other, don™t believe it. 


help drive each other
™s growth and they are 
completely symbiotic. Business, taken as a 

whole, is where almost all of the job creation 

inv
estments made by big business, job 
creation would be a lot less.
Small businesses of all types are essential, 
dynamic and innovative, and they are a 

uniquely entrepreneurial part of our  

U.S. economy. We wouldn™t be the same 

without them. But that does not diminish what big businesses do. Large companies are very stable, 

and they make huge investments for the 



more
, and they provide health insurance and 

lies. Big businesses are an essential part of a 


nesses are the envy of the rest of the world. 
Show me a successful country, and I will show 

you its successful big businesses. Like small 

businesses, big businesses are philanthropic, 

patriotic and community minded. We are 

lucky to have them both.
10The opportunities for JPMorgan Chase over 
the next 20 years will equal Œ or maybe even 
surpass Œ those of the last 20 years. 
In last year™s letter, we discussed several 
speci˜c initiatives we™re undertaking in addi
-tion to the ﬁnormalﬂ growth opportunities that we pursue every day. Each one of these 
initiatives involves a sustained, full-˚edged 
e˛ort of investment in people, branches 
and systems over a long period of time. And 
while we know that these e˛orts may not 
turn a pro˜t in the ˜rst year, we expect each 
one to add $500 million or more in pro˜ts annually by the ˜fth to seventh year. 
The following segments provide an update on 
how each of these initiatives is progressing.
The expansion of our international 
wholesale businesses, including progress in 
our Global Corporate Bank
Last year, we described our international 
expansion plan in detail. It involves building 
out our global presence across our whole-sale businesses (Asset Management, the 
Investment Bank and Treasury & Securities 
Services) in the rapidly expanding markets 
of Asia, Latin America, Africa and the Middle 
East, as well as in emerging and even ﬁfron
-tierﬂ markets. 
As our clients Œ multinational corporations, 
sovereign wealth funds, public or quasi-
public entities Œ expand globally, we intend 
to follow them around the world. 
 II. A BRIEF UPDATE ON OUR MAJOR INITIATIVES
We Are Expanding Our Global Platform
…˜
˜
˜
˜
˜
11 We have made good progress: 

200 clients in Brazil, China and India 
combined. Today, that number has grown 
to approximately 800 clients. Five years 

from now, we expect to serve 2,000 clients 

Œ including locally headquartered compa-
nies (about 50%) and foreign subsidiaries 

of international companies (about 50%).
new locations: Harbin, China; P
anama City, Panama; and Doha, Qatar. That™s in 

addition to the o˝ces we opened in 2010 

in Bangladesh, Bermuda, Guernsey, Saudi 

Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. A 

quick glance at the map on the previous 

page shows the o˝ces opened over the past 

two years in new and existing locations 

and the cities around the world where we 

plan to add locations in 2012-2013. 
(GCB), w
e had 98 bankers. By the end of 
2011, we had more than 250 bankers in 35 

countries. We plan to have approximately 

320 bankers in 40 countries by the end 

of 2013, who will provide approximately 

3,500 multinational corporations with 

cash management, global custody, foreign 

exchange, trade ˜nance and other services.

trade ˜nance loans,
 a total of $37 billion in 2011. We also increased other business 

with these same multinational corpora-
tions, including rates, foreign exchange and 
commodities, by 30%.
Commodities
In 2011, we completed the integration of 
assets acquired from Sempra. We now are 

one of the top three ˜rms in commodi-
ties Œ i.e., global sales and trading, as well 

as advisory services and market making in 

metals, oil, natural gas, power and others. 

Our global franchise includes approximately 
600 employees and 10 main o˝ce locations 

around the world. Over the course of last 

year, we grew our client franchise by more 

than 10% to serve over 2,200 active clients. 

And we increased the selling of commodi-

ties products to already existing clients 

so that hundreds of clients now come to 
us for multiple products across di˚erent 

commodity asset classes.
Small business growth
In 2011, we provided more than $17 billion of 

new credit to U.S. small businesses in 2011, up 

52% from 2010. We are the #1 Small Business 

Administration (SBA) lender nationwide Œ 

for the second year in a row. In 2011, we also 

became the #1 SBA lender to women-owned 

and minority-owned businesses.
Since 2009, we have added 1,200 new rela-
tionship managers and business bankers, and 

that includes adding 600 business bankers 

in the heritage Washington Mutual (WaMu) 

states of California and Florida. And we plan 

to continue aggressively hiring bankers who 

are meeting the needs of small businesses. 
Commercial Banking expansion Š 
particularly in WaMu states
Our Commercial Banking business has 
performed well in the recession, earning 

returns of more than 20% during the past 

two years and over 15% in the most di˝cult 

years. We continue to invest in additional 

bankers and o˝ces to support growth. In 

2011, Commercial Banking added 60 new 

bankers, placing 21 of them in states where 

WaMu had a presence. Our expansion e˚orts 

have made great progress Œ in California and 

Florida alone, deposits increased to $1.8 billion 

and loans to $2.0 billion by the end of 2011. 

Since the WaMu acquisition, our Commercial 

Banking business has continued to add 200+ 

new clients a year in the WaMu states. 
Commercial Banking™s International Banking 
business unit also has experienced signi˜cant 

growth. In the six years since the unit was 
Small Business Growth
       
 Year-over-year change
 2009 2010 2011  '09 to '10  '10 to '11New small business loans
 $ 7,251 $ 11,219  $ 17,060 55% 52%($ in millions)Total small business bankers
  
1,953   2,420   2,886 24% 19% 12launched, International Banking has increased 
the number of U.S. Commercial Banking 

clients using our international treasury and 

foreign exchange products Œ to 2,500 clients Œ 

at a rate of approximately 20% per year, and 

we expect this trend to continue. 
As we strive to better and more fully meet 
the needs of our Commercial Banking clients, 

we are increasing their access to a broader 

range of products. Today, our average 

Commercial Banking client uses more than 
eight of our products and services, and this 

number continues to increase.
The growth of our branch network
For years, some have predicted the demise 

of the physical branch as more customers 

choose to transact banking business online 

and on their mobile devices. However, our 

experience shows that instead of choosing 

between a branch and a website, customers 

actively use both. More than 17 million of 

our customers are paying bills online. But 

when it™s time to take out a mortgage, apply 

for a credit card or seek personal ˜nancial 
advice, customers often prefer to meet face 

to face with a banker. These activities will 

take place in physical branch locations for 

the foreseeable future. Our small business 

and middle market customers also are more 

comfortable discussing business needs such 

as cash management in person rather than 
online. In fact, our middle market business 

wouldn™t exist without the branch network. 

Our branch presence also is a competitive 

advantage for many of our other businesses:


it provides our Card Services and Mortg
age 
Banking businesses with the opportunity to 
o˚er more credit cards and retail mortgages. 

Today, about 45% of our Chase-branded 

credit cards and about 50% of our retail 

mortgages are sold through our branches. 

uses,
 on average, seven Chase products 
and services. Increasingly, our customers 

require and appreciate having the option 

to transact their business with us virtually 
and personally. Our network of branches 

gives consumers that choice.
 

˛
˛

˛


˛
˛
˛
˛

˛
˛

˛



˛

˛˛




˛

˛
˛

˛
˛

˛

˛

˛
˛

˜˚˜˛

˛
˛

Our Branch Network Provides Continued Opportunity to Grow
 13The map on the preceding page shows our 
current branch footprint. Since 2009, we have 

built more than 525 new branches. In 2011, we 

opened 260 new branches and added more 

than 3,800 salespeople in the branches. We 

expect we will add approximately 150-200 

branches a year for the next ˜ve years, which 

is fewer than we previously had planned. We 

are taking a more measured approach because 

regulatory changes have a˚ected our ability to 

pro˜tably operate some of our branches. 
That said, and despite slight reductions in pro˜t 
due to an abnormal interest rate environment, 

our average retail branch still earns approxi
-
mately $1 million a year. And the right type of 

branch in the proper location is pro˜table not 

only on its own but is enormously bene˜cial 

to the rest of the company. We believe interest 

rates and spreads will return to normal levels, 

and we are building our branches accordingly. 

The map shows we are building branches 

where we already currently reside. It always 

has been more valuable to increase your market 

share in an existing market than it is to go to a 

new market. 
Chase Private Client business continued 
growth 
In 2011, we opened approximately 250 
Chase Private Client (CPC) locations Œ 

branches dedicated to serving our a˙uent 

clients™ investment needs Œ and we plan to 

open another 750 CPC locations in 2012. 

Chase Private Client is quickly making an 

impact in deepening our relationships with 

the 2 million a˙uent clients that already 

bank with Chase. Today, more than 500 

Chase Private Client bankers and advisors 

serve private clients, and we plan to add 

more than 1,200 private client bankers and 

advisors in 2012. Since we launched the ˜rst 

phase of CPC expansion in July of 2011, the 

number of CPC households we serve has 

nearly quadrupled, and each of those house
-
holds has grown deposit and investment 

balances by $80,000 on average. 








 




decades and multiple con
tinents, with constant 
dialogue at many levels of our respective companies. 




Servic
es team. 







workin
g closely with the company™s strategic 
investments team.





commodit
y risk management services  



management teams. 



 operations by underwriting some of their bonds  



 developed and emerging markets by providing 


 chain™
s working capital requirements in more than 




 owned dealers who sell and service its products 
around the world.


 
 
 parties involved.
WHEN YOU HIRE JPMOR
GAN CHASE, YOU 
GET ALL OF US Š ONE 
GREAT EXAMPLE OF OUR BROAD, ORCHESTRATED EFFORTS WITH 
ONE GREAT CLIENT 
14The Chase consumer businesses Œ Retail Banking, Credit Card, Auto Finance and Mort
-
gage Œ historically ran as independent compa
-
nies. Now we are coming together to run all 

of these companies as one consumer business 

and one brand Œ to focus, ˜rst and foremost, 

on serving our customers in the ways they 

want and with the products they choose. 

This includes developing common strategies, 

delivering a consistent customer experience, 

designing a seamlessly integrated product 

o˚ering and continually innovating for our 

customers. We call this e˚ort One Chase. 
Doing a better job serving our consumer 
and small business customers 
What does One Chase mean for our 
customers? It means being known and 
appreciated for all the business they do with 

us Œ across all product lines Œ and feeling 
as if they are dealing with one company. 

It means customers will be treated with 
consistently great service every time, any 

way and anywhere they connect with us. It 

means when customers call Chase, they will 

get an answer from the Chase representative 

answering the phone Œ whether the ques-

tion is about their mortgage, credit card fees 

or banking account. It means customers can 
have more needs met at the Chase branch Œ 

including not only being able to get a credit 
card, mortgage or checking account but also 

being able to talk with branch professionals 

about any problems they may be having with 

any of our products. 
Here are some of the things we™re doing 
to serve our consumer and small business 

customers better: Making our communications clear and simple
Our customers have told us that the ﬁ˜ne 

printﬂ on our disclosures was confusing and 

wordy. Of course, that was not our intent. 
When we speak, email or send a letter to a 

customer, we aim to foster con˜dence, not 

confusion. So we have undertaken a number 

of initiatives designed to simplify the way we 

communicate with our customers. 
At the end of last year, we unveiled a revised 
summary guide for Chase Total Checking 

that makes its terms and conditions easier 

to understand. We developed a simple 

disclosure form that uses everyday words 

in a consumer-friendly format. Instead 

of saying ﬁtransaction posting order,ﬂ our 

new disclosure now says ﬁhow deposits 

and withdrawals work,ﬂ using words that 

customers understand. Consumers now can 
more plainly see a description of fees and 
services and learn how to avoid certain fees, 

determine when deposits are available, and 

track when withdrawals and deposits are 

processed Œ on three pages (instead of 40). In addition to streamlining and clarifying our written disclosures, we also are proac-

tively reaching out to customers with an 

email or a phone call when we think they 

should know something about their account. 
For example, if there are suddenly several 

unusual transactions in a customer™s account 

that could indicate fraud, we immediately 

send an email alert or make a phone call to 

let them know.
Focusing more on customer complaints
Every week, and sometimes every morning, 

the senior managers in our consumer busi-
nesses listen to or read customer complaints 
to get to the root of problems and to iden-
tify options to solve them. These issues 

are discussed, and the follow-up and feed-

back are shared with the broader customer 

support teams. 
We know every company makes mistakes. 
But if you don™t acknowledge mistakes, it™s 

unlikely you can ˜x them. No one should 

be afraid to make a change because it might 

imply that something we did in the past was 

wrong. Instead, every employee at the ˜rm Œ 
 III. THE NEW ONE CHASE Š STRENGTHENING    
THE CUSTOMER
 EXPERIENCE15including me Œ should take responsibility for 
mistakes and take the initiative to ˜x them 

and prevent them from occurring in the 

future. We must continually make changes 

that make us better.
Empowering our employees to own customer 
issuesWhen customers contact Chase, they expect 
Œ and deserve Œ to have us understand 

and assist them with their entire relation-
ship, regardless of which line of business 

is involved. To ensure this happens, we 

increasingly have empowered our front-

line employees to better handle customer 

requests and issues.
For example, we have authorized branch 
managers to use their judgment in waiving 

fees for customers they know personally 

in order to get them a quicker response or 

expedite a transaction. We are providing real-

time information to our bankers and advi-

sors, eliminating the need to transfer many 

customer calls. These initiatives have helped 

drive customer complaints down 25% over 

the last six months. 
One Chase means one customer. So when 
making decisions, we consider the entire 

relationship our customers have with us. For 

example, when making a decision about a 

credit card application, we now more fully 

consider what type of customer the applicant 
has been and how long that person has been 
a customer. 
Learning from our bus trips and other feedback
Following a terri˜c bus trip last summer 

along the West Coast, we hopped on a 

bus again in February 2012 and took a 

week-long, 550-mile journey through the 

Sunshine State. We visited branches and 

operations centers throughout Florida, 

many of which are in o˚-the-beaten-path 

locations, like our credit card operations 

center in Lake Mary. We met face to face 

with approximately 5,000 employees and 

hundreds of clients across all our lines of 

business Œ from consumer customers to 

Fortune 500 CEOs. We also met with elected 

o˝cials and community leaders to talk 

about how much we™re expanding, lending 

and adding jobs in Florida. 
It was an incredible trip that gave us the 

opportunity to see ˜rsthand how vibrant our 
business in Florida is: We have become the 

#1 SBA lender, and our branch count, which 

was 261 when we bought the WaMu business 

in 2008, is nearly 300 today Œ we expect it to 

grow to 500 in three to ˜ve years. Five years 

ago, we had 6,700 employees in Florida, and, 

including the 4,500 people we hired last year, 

we now have 17,550. 
One of the most rewarding parts of the 
trip for us was riding the bus with some of 

our front-line employees Œ tellers, branch 

managers, personal bankers and others. 

Their perspective and advice on how 
we 
could do a better job were invaluable. And, 

boy, did we get a lot of advice Œ 160 speci˜c 

recommendations, which we are in the 

process of implementing as we speak.
We want to make this drive toward contin-
uous improvement a part of the ˜ber of 

every person at our ˜rm. 
A new internal tool called ﬁWhat Do You 
Think?ﬂ is giving our employees throughout 

the ˜rm a chance to evaluate the products 

we o˚er customers, as well as the services we 

provide internally, from accounts payable to 

our online bene˜t enrollment and internal 
travel services. Some of us predicted these 

internal services were going to receive the 

worst ratings Œ we weren™t wrong. But we 

know that while we won™t always like what 

we learn Œ in fact, sometimes it is embar-

rassing Œ it will help us become better. 

Providing best-in-class services internally is 

just as important as providing them to our 

customers because better services make our 

colleagues™ lives easier so they can spend 

more time with customers in helping to solve 

their problems.
Continually innovating for our customers
A culture of speed and innovation is imper
-ative. Sometimes people come up with 

great ideas on their own, but, more often, it 

happens through informal networking and 

brainstorming. Also, small improvements, 

over time, cumulatively may lead to major 

breakthroughs. 
16The ˜nancial services industry has been 
highly innovative over the past 20 years, 

from ATMs to online bill payment and a 

variety of mobile banking applications. 

Chase mobile customers increased 57% over 

the past year to more than 8 million active 

users at the end of 2011. These customers 

transact online by paying their bills, 

checking their balances and transferring 

money between accounts. Some of our new 

consumer innovations include: 

SM, part of the Chase 
Mobile® applications that allow customers to make deposits from their smartphones 
(by taking a picture of the check). Our 

customers have deposited 10 million checks 

in 2011. Over the past year, our total deposit 

volume increased to $2.6 billion Œ with 

$481 million deposited by QuickDeposit in 

January 2012 alone.

to our Amazon.com Rew
ards Visa
® card, 
allowing customers to use their rewards 

instantly as cash.
SM, a new mobile applica-
tion for organizing and tracking expenses, 

which currently ranks in the top 5% of all 

˜nancial applications (Apple App Store
SM  ranking) and works exclusively for our 

InkSM from Chase small business cards.

world™
s best brands, launching new cards 
with The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company and 

United Airlines®.

SM, our person-to-person 
payment service that allows our checking 

customers to use a phone or computer 
to send or receive money using an email 

address (money is either taken out or 

deposited into checking or savings 

accounts), increased by more than 200% to 

2.6 million users in 2011. 
SM for the 
a˙uent market in late 2009 and generated 

more than 1.8 million accounts in about 
two years. In 2011, we launched Chase 

Sapphire PreferredSM, an enhanced a˙uent-
oriented product that rewards customers 

with two points for every dollar spent on 

dining and travel.
We continue to roll out new products. Soon 

after this letter goes to press, we will be 

launching an exciting new banking product 

that will have innovative features and broad 

appeal. I believe this could be a break
-
through product for consumers in terms 

of pricing transparency, convenience and 

simplicity Œ and we hope you agree when 

you see it. The management team doesn™t 

want me to get too excited in case it doesn™t 

work. I told them that even if it™s a ˛op, I 

will be proud of their innovative spirit. You 

can™t succeed if you don™t try.
 17 IV.
  
  AN INTENSE FOCUS IN 2012 ON AD
APTING OUR BUSINESSES SUCCESSFULLY TO THE NEW 
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK 
The extensive requirements of regulatory 
reform Œ which we must meet Œ demand 

enormous resources. While we are going to 

continue the initiatives in all of our busi-

nesses in 2012, it is unlikely that we will 

undertake signi˜cant acquisitions due to 

these regulatory demands and other regula-
tory constraints. We need to meet these regu-

latory demands properly while ensuring that 
our clients are not adversely a˚ected and 

that we are not creating excessive, sti˛ing 

bureaucracy. We are totally focused on what 

is in front of us. It is a new world, and we are 

going to adjust to it very quickly Œ whether 

or not we like it or think it is all needed. 
Meeting new regulatory requirements will 
be a large, costly and complex endeavor 

Š and we must get it right. Therefore, we 

need to devote enormous attention and 

resources to it 
It has been estimated that there are 14,000 
new regulatory requirements that will be 

implemented over the next few years. Three 

hundred out of the 400 Dodd-Frank rules still 

need to be completed. We need to meet the 

new Basel II, Basel 2.5 and Basel III require
-
ments. We need to meet the new liquidity 

requirements, the new global systemically 

important banks (G-SIB) rules, the new 

requirements due to Resolution Authority 

and living wills, and any new requirements 

from two new regulators, the Consumer 

Financial Protection Bureau and the O˝ce 

of Financial Research. We need to meet the 

new derivatives, clearinghouse and Volcker 

trading rules. We also must complete 

periodic Comprehensive Capital Analysis 

and Review (CCAR) stress testing for the 

Federal Reserve. And, ˜nally, we have major 

new rules and requirements from Brussels, 

London and other global jurisdictions. 
These new rules will a˚ect virtually every 
legal entity, system (we have 8,000 of these), 

banker and client around the world. It will 

take an enormous amount of resources across 

all of our disciplines Œ people, systems, tech
-nology and control functions (˜nance, risk, 

legal, audit and compliance) to get it done 

right. Over the next few years, we estimate 

that tens of thousands of our people will 

work on these changes, of whom 3,000 will 

be devoted full time to the e˚ort, at a cost of 

close to $3 billion. 
We must not let regulatory reform and 
requirements create excessive bureaucracy 

and unnecessary permanent costs
There are so many new rules that they 
inevitably create more opportunities to 
build unnecessary bureaucracy within the 
company. It is incumbent upon us to make 

sure that we do it right Œ for the regulators, 

our clients and our own e˝cient internal 
functioning. So we are trying to build 

streamlined systems to meet the needs of 
all the regulators in an e˝cient way. For 

example, di˚erent regulators have asked 

for di˚erent reports on some very complex 

issues such as global liquidity. We are 

going to try to build one report that meets 
all their needs and ours, too Œ as opposed 

to preparing three completely di˚erent 
liquidity reports every day or every month. 

Three reports lead to more mistakes, less 

understanding and more work.
We must do this in a way that minimizes 
cost and disruption to our clients
Most clients hope they will not see much 
change as a result of these new regula-

tions. But for certain clients and certain 

products, the change will be signi˜cant. For 

example, the cost of credit, in general, will 

go up modestly, essentially due to the banks™ 

higher capital and liquidity requirements. 

The cost of credit for some likely will go 

up substantially Œ for example, we expect 

larger increases in trade ˜nance; consumer 
credit (particularly for consumers with FICO 

scores below 660); and backup lines of credit 
18that support commercial paper issuance. 
Because of the Durbin Amendment, the cost 

of banking services will go up modestly, 

but this will likely a˚ect certain clients far 

more than others Œ e.g., customers with low 

account balances. 
We also are trying to get ahead of the change 
and be proactive. We have canceled products 

and services and will continue to do so when 
we believe we no longer can adequately 

provide them, given the new regulatory 

requirements. We also are exiting products 

that we think create too much reputational 

risk for the ˜rm. For example, we no longer 

bank certain types of clients, we no longer 

o˚er tax refund anticipation loans, we 

essentially have exited the subprime lending 

business and we no longer o˚er certain 

types of complex derivatives. We also have 

modi˜ed our overdraft procedures to be 

more consumer friendly and are trying to be 
very responsive to complaints about product 

disclosures, as we have mentioned previ-

ously. We will adjust to all of the new rules 

very quickly.
We have extensive processes in place to try 
to do business the right way
We have extensive processes to protect the 
company and conduct business the right 

way. We have strong audit, compliance and 

legal sta˚s (these groups total more than 

3,600 employees). Some of these employees 

sit in specialized units that cut across the 

company focusing on the requirements of 

the Anti-Money Laundering, Bank Secrecy 

and Privacy acts, and other requirements 

(these units, which also include dedicated line 

of business employees, total approximately 

1,400 employees). We know we won™t always 

be perfect, but it won™t be for lack of trying. 

Listed below are examples of how each busi
-
ness tries to properly conduct its a˚airs:
ov
ersight into any and all risk in the busi-
ness and set overall risk limits from credit 
extensions to any market-making activities. 

Risk limits are set by product, by coun-

terparty and by type of speci˜c risk (for 

example, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, 

credit risk, country risk, market risk, private 

equity risk, and legal and ˜duciary risk, etc.). 

products to make sure that w
e can handle them operationally and, more important, 

that they meet our ethical standards for 

conducting business.

all extensions of credit and uses of capital 

in the company to make sure we have the 
right limits, the right structures, the right 

clients and adequate returns.

underwritings of stocks
, bonds, loans, etc., 
to ensure that each is properly structured, 

that we want to do business with the client, 

that we can meet our commitments and 

that due diligence is properly done, etc.

the potential errors in processing,
 legal 
agreements and others that can lead to any 

form of operational risk to the company 

from settlement to clearance, including liti-

gation and processing errors.

ne
w types of business and out-of-the-ordi
-nary transactions that entail risks relating 

to the environment, taxes, accounting, 

disclosures and know-your-customer rules 

to try to ensure that business is being 

done appropriately. 
We operate in a complex business with high 

and increasing regulatory demands and 

risk. Whether or not we agree with all the 

new rules and business processes, we want 

you to know that we will strive to meet 

or exceed every regulatory requirement 

around the world. This simply is the way we 

run our business. 
 19 V.
 COMMENTS ON 
GLOBAL FINANCIAL REFORM
We have written extensively about the 
crisis and the need for ˜nancial reform in 

previous letters. Many of the issues we have 

discussed have not changed. It is very impor-

tant, however, that we get this right so I will 

comment in this section on some of the more 
critical and recent developments.
We always have acknowledged the need 
for reform Œ and we agree with most, but 

not all, of it. And we all have a huge vested 

interest in having a strong ˜nancial system
Most banks and bankers have acknowledged 
the need for strong reform. JPMorgan Chase 

has consistently supported higher capital 
standards, more liquidity in the system, a 

Resolution Authority to better manage and 

unwind large ˜nancial ˜rms, better regula-

tion of the mortgage business, the clearing 

of standardized derivatives through well-

structured clearinghouses and even stronger 

consumer protection (however, we thought 

this should have been a strengthened depart-

ment inside the bank regulator). We also 

supported most of the principles of compen-
sation reform Œ though you should know 

that our company, for the most part, had 

already practiced them. 
In addition, we supported the ideas behind 
the creation of the Financial Stability Over-

sight Council (FSOC), recognizing that one 

of the ˛aws of our ˜nancial system was 

that we did not have strong oversight of 

the whole system or adequate coordination 
among many di˚erent regulators. We actu-

ally believe the FSOC should have even 
more 
authority than it has been given so that it can 

force coordination among the 11 regulatory 
authorities of the FSOC, adjudicate where 

necessary, and properly assign responsibility 

and authority.
While we agree with much of the reform 
that has been put in place, we do not agree 

with all of it. Speci˜cally, we disagree with 

the Durbin Amendment Œ which had nothing 

to do with the crisis and was the adjudica-

tion of a dispute between retailers and banks 
Œ when the banks were unable to e˚ectively 

respond. (It essentially is price ˜xing by the 

government that will have the unfortunate 

consequence of leaving millions of Ameri-

cans unbanked.) Three other speci˜c rules 

with which we do not completely agree 

include the G-SIB restrictions and surcharge, 

the Volcker Rule and some of the derivatives 

rules. You may be surprised to know that we 

don™t actually disagree with the stated intent 
of these rules. We, however, do disagree with 

some of the proposed speci˜cs because we 

think they could have huge negative unin-

tended consequences for American competi-

tiveness and economic growth. As Albert 

Einstein said, ﬁIn theory, theory and practice 

are the same. In practice, they are not.ﬂ
The United States has the best ˜nancial system on the planet. We have the deepest, 

widest, most transparent and most innova-

tive capital markets. These markets have 

helped fuel the great American economic 

machine Œ from small businesses to large. 

And while we need reform, we must be very 

careful not to throw the baby out with the 

bathwater. Clear, fair and consistent rules 

need to be put in place as soon as possible so 
that our economy, once again, can grow and 

meet its potential.But the result of ˜nancial reform has not 
been intelligent design Š simplicity, clarity 

and speed would be better for the system 

and better for the economy
A robust ˜nancial system needs coordinated and consistent regulation that is strong, 

simple and transparent. The regulators 

should have clear authority and responsi-

bility. Just one look at the chart on the next 

page shows that this is not what we now 

have. Complexity and confusion should have 

been alleviated, not compounded. 
As a result of Dodd-Frank, we now have 
multiple regulatory agencies with overlapping 

rules and oversight responsibilities. Although 

the FSOC was created, it is proving to be too 
weak to e˚ectively manage the overlap and 
complexity. We have hundreds of rules, many 

of which are uncoordinated and inconsistent 

with each other. While legislation obviously 

is political, we now have allowed regulation 

to become politicized, which we believe will 

likely lead to some bad outcomes. 
And we have been very slow in ˜nishing rules 
that are critical to the health of the system. 

The rules under which mortgages can be 

underwritten and securitized still have not 

been completed Œ three and a half years 

after the crisis began. This is unnecessarily 

keeping the cost of mortgages higher than 

they otherwise would be, slowing down the 

recovery. Basel III created additional ﬁcapital 

confusionﬂ as banks did not know what the 
speci˜c capital rules would be going forward 

Œ the banks still don™t know exactly how 

much capital they will be required to hold, 

when the regulators would like the banks to 

get there and how they will be able to use 

their excess capital when they do get there. 

The Commodity Futures Trading Commis-
sion (CFTC) and the U.S. Securities and 

Exchange Commission (SEC), responsible for 

di˚erent parts of the swaps business, have 

not yet come up with common rules. And the 

several agencies claiming jurisdiction over 

the Volcker Rule have proposed regulations 

of mind-numbing complexity. Even senior 

regulators now recognize that the current 
proposed rules are unworkable and will be 

impossible to implement. The rules also will create unintended conse-quences. Nearly 40% of all Americans have 

FICO scores below 660. Many of the new 

capital rules make it prohibitively more 

expensive to lend to this segment (if you are 

a bank). And the Federal Deposit Insurance 

Corporation (FDIC) now charges us approxi
-
mately 10 basis points on all assets (not just 

the deposits it insures Œ we now are paying 

the FDIC approximately $1.5 billion a year), 

making all lending more expensive and, in 

particular, distorting the short-term money 

markets that lend large sums of money over 

short periods of time at low interest rates.
 Investment 
Advisory
Mutual and money market funds; wealth management; 
trust services
DerivativesFutures, 
commodities and derivatives Consumer Lending
Credit cards; student and auto loansCommercial Lending
Commercial and industrial lending
Broker-Dealer
Institutional and retail brokerage; securities lending; prime broker services
Retail Banking
Deposit products; mortgages 
and home equity
Alternative 
Investments
Hedge funds; private equity
Investment 
BankingSecurities underwriting; M&A ˜nancial advisory services
Payment and Clearing Systems
Payments processing; custody and clearing
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  
Focus on protecting consumers 
in the ˜nancial products 
and services markets. Authority 
to write rules, examine institutions and enforcement. 
No prudential mandate.
FINRARegulates brokerage ˜rms and registered securities representatives. Writes 
and enforces rules. Examination authority over securities ˜rms. SEC
Regulates securities exchanges; mutual funds and investment advisors.  Examination authority for broker-dealers. 
Authority over security-based swaps, security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
Authority over swaps, swap dealers and major swap participants.  
Regulates trading markets, clearing organizations and intermediaries.Supervisor for systemically 
important ˜nancial institutions 
and their subsidiaries. Establish heightened prudential standards on its own and based on Council recommendations.  Examination authority.Examination authority.2 Orderly liquidation of systemically important ˜nancial institutions.3CFTC
Market oversight and enforcement functions. O˜ce of the Comptroller of the Currency
Focus on safety and 
soundness. Primary regulator 
of national banks and federal savings associations. 
Examination authority. Examines loan portfolio, liquidity, internal controls, risk management, audit, compliance, foreign branches. Federal Reser
veFocus on safety and soundness. 
Supervisor for bank holding 
companies; monetary policy; payment systems.O˜ce of Financial Research
O˚ce within Treasury, which may collect data from ˜nancial institutions on behalf of Council. No examination authority. FDIC Focus on protecting deposits 
through insurance fund; safety and soundness; manage bank receiverships.        ˜˚New agency  or new powers and authority
˜˚Old agency
 Authority to request information  but no examination authority
Financial Stability Oversight Council
Identify risks to the ˜nancial stability of the United States from activities of large, 
interconnected ˜nancial companies. Authority to gather information from ˜nancial institutions.1 Make recommendations to the Fed and other primary ˜nancial 
regulatory agencies regarding heightened prudential standards.
OFAC/FinCENState Regulatory 
Authorities and AGsPower to enforce rules promulgated by Consumer Financial Protection Bureau   This chart assumes these activities are conducted in a systemically important bank holding company (BHC)
1 The Council, through O˜ce of Financial Research, may request reports from systemically important BHCs 

2 FDIC may conduct exams of systemically important BHCs for purposes of implementing its authority for orderly liquidations, but may not  

 examine those in generally sound condition

3 The Dodd-F
rank Act expanded the FDIC™s authority when liquidating a ˚nancial institution to include the bank holding company, not just   entities that house FDIC-insured deposits
Note: Green lines from SEC and CFTC represent enhanced authority over existing relationships

activities ar
e conducted in a 
systemically important bank 


 

request r
eports from systemi





purposes of implementin
g its authority for orderly liquidations  

but may not examine those in 

generally sound condition






to include the bank holding 

company, not just entities that 

 21No one has considered the cumulative e˚ect 
of all these changes taking place all at once. 

And there is little question in my mind that 

credit contracted globally (particularly in 

Europe) as a response. Some analysts estimate 

that even after the European Central Bank™s 

special three-year lending facility to banks, 

European banks will need to shed another 

$3 trillion in assets in the next few years, and 

that™s assuming that banks don™t try to meet 

their new Basel III guidelines ahead of time. 

This can™t possibly help the recovery of an 

already weakened Europe. With all the new 

rules, it is unlikely that credit availability 

will be replaced by new lenders. Even small 

banks that are exempt from many of the new 

rules are complaining that these rules will 

have a substantially negative e˚ect on their 

businesses Œ again, not the intended but the 
unintended consequence. And certainly the 
new regulatory burdens for large and small 

banks have become enormous, but it will be a 

disproportionate burden on smaller banks.
Recently, we have begun to achieve modest 
economic growth around the globe, somewhat 

held back by certain natural disasters such as 

the tsunami in Japan. But I have no doubt that 

our own actions Œ from the debt ceiling ˜asco 

to bad and uncoordinated policy, including 

the somewhat dramatic restraining of bank 

leverage in the United States and Europe at 

precisely the wrong time Œ made the recovery 

worse than it otherwise would have been. You 

cannot prove this in real time, but when econ
-
omists 20 years from now write the book on 

the recovery, it may well be entitled, 
It Could 

Have Been Much Better.
You read constantly that banks are lobbying regulators 
and elected o˜cials as if this is inappropriate. We don™t 

look at it that way. We view it as our responsibility to 

stay actively engaged in policy debates that will a˛ect 

our company, our communities and the global economy.
Not only is petitioning the government a
 constitutional 
right



mission to be activ
ely engaged in the political process 
in the communities and countries where we operate.

cial markets, our company, our shareholders and our 
customers. It is vital for o˜cials and regulators to have 
input from people within our businesses who under
and the consequenc
es of certain policy decisions. 

not, is at the r
equest of government o˜cials who want 
to draw upon the expertise of our executives who work 

in the markets every day. 
Engagement with government o˜cials and regulators 


tions and Regulatory Policy teams, it also has become 

an important part of the fabric of our entire company. 

Employees across our company spend time meeting 



from W
ashington to Brussels to Beijing to Sacramento 
markets, as well as global markets, and ho
w policymaking 


CIVIC ENGAGEMENT AND LOBBYING
Executives and employees from around the world 

who visit federal, state and local capitals to provide 

lawmakers with perspectives on economic condi

tions in their communities and countries. 


policymaker
s to provide our views on how new 
regulations or legislation will a˛ect businesses, 

markets and consumers. 


 on the lending needs of small businesses across  
the country.



around the w
orld. 






that work to emplo
y more veterans and support 


Š including unions, v
eterans, teachers, municipal 
workers and others Š are reasonably engaged in 

exercising their constitutional rights. We will continue 

to do so as well. 
22The United States needs more conversation, 
collaboration, coordination and con˜dence
More collaboration would be a good thing. 
Why should anyone be surprised that ˜nan-

cial reform, which is so important to our 

country, is being rethought and refought 

(through the courts and otherwise) Œ since it 
was passed in a partisan way without su˝-

cient collaboration and without adequate 
input from experts in the ˜eld? 
Even with many of the rules and reforms that 
we support, the details (which are critical) are 

far from perfect. We™re left with hundreds of 

rules and thousands of pages, that even the 

regulators are now struggling to make sense 

of. These are very complex systems that need 

to be carefully thought through and analyzed, 

particularly by people who know the subjects 

best Œ both academics and practitioners.
These issues are not Democratic or Repub-lican, and the solution is not political. Many 

bankers would have loved to support proper 

reform. But it is hard to support something 

when you were not involved in the process 

in a meaningful way. In fact, at a bankers™ 

meeting with 100 bank CEOs in the room, 

70%-80% said they were afraid to speak 

up because of potential retribution from 
the regulators and examiners. This is not a 

healthy process for policymaking.
I am struck that so many of our leaders 

in the United States forget how strong 

our country can be. The United States of 

America has the world™s best military, and 

it will have for decades. It has the world™s 

best universities and the best rule of law. We 

are known for having some of the hardest 

working, most entrepreneurial and innova-

tive workforces anywhere. The United States 

has the widest, deepest and most transparent 

capital markets in the world Œ and the best 

businesses on the planet Œ small to large. 

These businesses are an essential part of 
America™s strength Œ they are the engine of 

the economy. They create the wealth that 

we have today to enable all of the things we 

do as a nation. If it weren™t for the capital 

investment, innovation and productivity 

of American business, we all still would be 

living in tents and hunting bu˚alo.
The need for honest dialogue and collabora-
tion goes way beyond the ˜nancial system. 

We need it in ˜scal reform, health policy, 

energy policy, immigration, education and 

infrastructure. If we don™t start working 

together, we won™t get it right. It is critical 

that we get it right to ensure America has the 

best possible future. 
As Benjamin Franklin said, ﬁWe must, 
indeed, all hang together, or assuredly we 

shall all hang separately.ﬂ
JPMorgan Chase Capital Levels (Basel I Tier 1 Common Ratio)

mates for net inc
ome and dividends; share 
repurchases are assumed 

at the same level as 

employee issuance to 


˜˚˛˝˙˜˚˛˜˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˛ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˚˜˚˛˝˙˙ˆ

˚


˚
ˆ

˚


˜˚˛˚˝
˜˜˛˜˝
˜˙˛˜˝
ˆ˛ˇ˝
ˇ˛ˇ˝
˘˛˙˝
˜



˜


†

‘

˜
“

“



–ƒ



€


–






23We ˜rmly believe in strong capital 
requirements, but the G-SIB surcharge 

goes too far Š as proved by the recently 

completed Federal Reserve stress test
The Federal Reserve recently completed 
its CCAR stress test. The stress case makes 

some pretty severe assumptions for the next 

two years:

real recent recession it dropped only 5%).

(they alread
y are reduced 34% from peak 2006 levels).

even w
orse than they did in the last crisis.
The Federal Reserve requires all banks to 
show that throughout this high-stress envi-
ronment, they can maintain Basel I capital of 

over 5% (at all times), while it also assumes 

banks should continue their capital, divi-

dend and repurchase plans as if there were 

no crisis (there virtually is no way we would 

continue to buy back a substantial amount of 

stock if this stress scenario began to unfold).
The chart on the previous page shows what 
our capital ratios were over the last several 

years and what analysts are forecasting they 

will be over the next two years. Recent stress 

test results conclude that we can increase the 

dividend, buy back $12 billion of stock and 

still have capital in the worst quarter (the 

Fed™s stress test assumes that a huge amount 

of losses all happen in the same quarter) of 
no less than 5%. We believe that even if the 

Fed™s severe stress scenario actually happens, 

our capital ratios will drop only modestly 
since we will very actively manage our risk 

exposures, expenses and capital. Keep in 

mind that during the real stress test after 
the collapse of Lehman Brothers, our capital 

levels 
never went down, even after buying 

$500 billion of assets through the acquisi-
tions of Bear Stearns and WaMu. 
We deeply believe in stress testing, and 
we even think that a severe stress test like 

this, properly calibrated, is appropriate. But 

we also know Œ as the real stress test after 
Lehman™s collapse and the recent severe Fed 

stress test make eminently clear Œ we have 

plenty of capital. There also should be recognition that the whole system is stronger. Accounting and 

disclosure are better, most o˚-balance sheet 

vehicles are gone, underwriting standards 

are higher, there is much less leverage in the 

system, many of the bad actors are gone and, 

last but not least, each remaining bank is 

individually stronger.
The G-SIB is contrived, arti˜cial and 
duplicative and doesn™t recognize that 

while some companies were ﬁtoo big to 

failﬂ during the ˜nancial crisis, some also 

were ports in the storm
Once again, very complex regulations are 
being overlaid on already complex regula-

tions. Under the new Basel III rules, all 

banks will be required to have 7% Basel III 

common equity (this translates to approxi-

mately 10% Basel I). The new G-SIB require-

ments mandate for a company our size 

approximately 2.5% more capital, totaling 

9.5% Tier 1 common equity (this equates to 

approximately 13% Basel I). This is capital 

that we simply don™t need. The G-SIB calcula-

tions focus only on the negatives of size and 

don™t recognize the positives of size Œ diver-

si˜cation of earnings and capital strength 
Œ which kept several large companies safe 

during the storm. In fact, diversi˜cation of 

earnings and even high market shares, which 

often is a sign of a company™s strength, are 

treated as negatives in these calculations.
The G-SIB rule has 12 metrics to deter-mine how much extra capital a bank needs. 
I won™t bore you with all 12, but I will 

describe a few to show how arbitrary and 

contrived the rule is: 

numbers Œ assets,
 gross derivatives expo-
sure, cross-border lending, etc. Œ without 
any regard for the risk of the credit, 

whether the risk is collateralized or what-
ever the tenor of the loan. 
24
-ment of how easily clients can replace the important services provided b
y the bank. One of these measures looks at market 

share in debt and equity underwriting. 

We believe this is a ˛awed measure since 

any given debt or equity transaction 

usually involves multiple underwriters Œ so 

replacement usually isn™t even necessary. 

And if it were, it could be done easily.

funding. 
This clearly is a legitimate risk measure for banks, but the G-SIB calculation 

treats any funding other than retail deposits 

as equally risky. Your company, which 

e˚ectively has no wholesale money market 

funding, is viewed to be just as risky as a 

company that mostly is wholesale funded in 

the notoriously ˜ckle money markets. And 

no credit is given for deposits from compa
-
nies (most of which are rather sticky), secure 

funding sources or long-term funding.

whether a bank holds assets under custody
. This is a business where the assets are 
completely separated from the rest of the 
company; i.e., already fully safeguarded. 

We do not understand why the custody 

business is in the calculation at all.We could go on and on Œ the rule penalizes 

diversi˜cation, it treats liquid securities as 

being worse than loans, it gives no credit to 

the newly established Resolution Authority 

to dismantle a big bank and it is inconsistent 
with parts of Basel III, particularly around 

the value of operational deposits.
We don™t disagree with all of the intent 
of the G-SIB Œ it includes some logical 
approaches to reducing the complexity of the 

˜nancial markets and the interconnected-

ness between ˜nancial companies. But the 

way some of these measures are calculated is 

contrived and arti˜cial. They are duplicative 

and completely violate the principles of risk-
weighting assets. We believe that while the 

G-SIB rule will cause bigger banks to hold 
more capital and give them some incentive 

to shrink, it will not end up working the way 

regulators envisioned.We believe banks will be forced to increase 

their capital levels in order to ﬁcluster 

aroundﬂ their major competitors. Even if a 

bank could run at 7% capital, it probably 

will have to run at the higher number to be 

perceived as strong competitively. Addition-

ally, the rule will create unintended, anti-

competitive market-distorting arbitrage. Big 

banks that have a lot of capital will more 

easily win certain types of business, such as 

processing, from smaller competitors. Big 

banks that need to hold 9.5% capital against 

mortgages simply will syndicate them out 

to smaller banks that need to hold only 7% 
capital against the same speci˜c assets. 
Regardless of how we feel about the G-SIB 
surcharge, we, of course, will meet all the 

requirements Œ and currently believe we can 

do so and still earn adequate returns for our 

shareholders. We just don™t think it is the 

right way to regulate banks Œ or operate a 

˜nancial system.Resolution Authority Š essentially 
bankruptcy Š needs to be made real.  

We must eliminate ﬁtoo big to failﬂ
One of the most important provisions of 
the Dodd-Frank legislative reforms is the 

creation of a robust Resolution Authority, 

which empowers the FDIC to take over a 

failing systemically important ˜nancial 
institution, including us, and resolve its 

operations and businesses in an orderly 
manner, without causing systemic risks 

to the ˜nancial system or excessive risks 

to the economy as a whole. Shareholders 

and creditors would bear all the losses (in 

a predictable and consistent way), with no 

exposure to taxpayers or damage to innocent 

bystanders. The management responsible 

for the failure would be replaced, and prior 

compensation to directors and senior o˝cers 
would be clawed back. Ideally, the name of 

the failed institution also would be buried, 

memorialized only in the hall of shame of 
failed institutions. 
The FDIC would manage this process, 
including providing operational liquidity 

if necessary, so that resolution would occur 

without a lengthy period of government 

intervention. Properly executed, there would 

be minimum value destruction and conta
-
gion e˚ects inherent in ˜re sales or disorderly 

liquidations (this also would preserve as much 
25value as possible for unsecured debt holders Œ 
just as in an ordinary bankruptcy proceeding). 

Those responsible for causing the problem 

would bear the losses. If losses exceeded the 

amount of shareholder equity and debt, the 

banking industry, as a whole, would pay for 

the losses. This essentially is the way the FDIC 

has operated since its creation in 1933. There 

would be no cost to taxpayers, and there 

would be no bailout by the government.
As a result, critical operations that are impor-
tant to the economy and the functioning of 

the ˜nancial markets would continue uninter
-rupted. Credit card processing, ATM networks, 

checking accounts and debit cards would 

continue to function, but under the control 

of new owners and management. Similarly, 

custody services of client assets, payments 

processing, asset management, and securi
-
ties and derivatives clearing would continue 

without economy-damaging interruption. 
Although Dodd-Frank calls this process 
ﬁorderly liquidation,ﬂ it really is comparable 

with a bankruptcy. Implementing this process 

for ˜nancial institutions operating in many 

jurisdictions around the world brings added 

complexity. We are working closely with regu
-
lators to clearly identify how critical opera-
tions in local jurisdictions would continue 

under a resolution process. Close cooperation 

is required by multiple regulators. We believe 

this can best be achieved by actively working 

together well before any such event occurs 

and carefully (perhaps legislatively) agreeing 

on how such an orderly liquidation would be 

pursued across international borders.
We certainly hope that a large systemically 
important ˜nancial institution never has to 

go through this process. Certainly, higher 

capital and liquidity standards, better loan 

quality and more disciplined underwriting 
make such a failure signi˜cantly less likely. 

However, the availability of this controlled 

ﬁbankruptcyﬂ process is critically important 
for forcing managements and creditors of 

such institutions to understand that they are 

NOT too big to fail Œ and to understand that 

they are NOT so important that the taxpayers 

will bail them out and that they are NOT 

immune to the consequences of excessive 

risk taking. This type of ﬁbankruptcyﬂ for 

failed ˜nancial institutions is essential for 

management to maintain market discipline 

and for risk taking of ˜nancial ˜rms.
We need to ensure that America™s large 
global banks can e˚ectively compete
Many of the new rules potentially a˚ect 
U.S. global banks more signi˜cantly than 

they a˚ect non-U.S. banks. This is not to 

say that other countries (for example, the 

United Kingdom and Switzerland) aren™t 
doing things to make it harder for their 

banks to compete. But we need to ensure 

that the rules, which a˚ect only American 

banks, don™t hurt Œ in their 
cumulative 
e˜ect Œ American banks™ ability to compete. 

Following is a list of regulations that are 

unique to American banks. (Many of these 

rules did not emanate from Basel but from 
the U.S. legislative and regulatory process.)



its ˜nal e˚ect yet Œ will a˚ect only U
.S. 
companies, including, possibly, American 
banks™ activities outside the United States.


may require 
American banks to follow U.S. 
regulations outside the United States and 
e˚ectively could eliminate our ability to 

o˚er derivatives to our corporate clients.

e˝cient Tier 1 capital, e˚ectively increasing 
the cost of capital.
U.S
. banks to acquire institutions outside the United States with no similar limita-
tions on our foreign competitors. 

charges (a uniquely U
.S. asset) increase our 
cost of doing business.

punitive f
or U.S. banks when they hold 
marketable debt securities. Foreign banks 

will be able to hold many of these securi
-
ties at cost, but American banks will have to 

deduct any unrealized losses from capital. 

less credit or excluded. 
Amazingly, covered 
bonds in Europe count as 100% liquid assets, 

but U.S. government-guaranteed mortgage-

backed securities count only as 85%.

U.S
. Resolution Authority in Dodd-Frank.
26

market shares o
ver time in the investment 
banking and custody businesses (usually a 
sign of having a strong business) are specif-

ically penalized with higher capital charges. 
Ironically, while the U.S. banking system is 

far less consolidated than all other devel
-
oped nations (currently only six of the 

50 largest ˜nancial ˜rms in the world, by 

market capitalization, are American Œ they 

were 44 of the 50 in 1989 Œ this should give 

U.S. policymakers pause), the G-SIB charges 

and some of the other rules penalize Amer
-ican banks more than non-U.S. banks. 
Su˝ce it to say, the negatives are adding up 
and bear close watching. While we strongly 

prefer to have common global rules for 

everyone, it may not be turning out that 

way. It is incumbent upon American policy
-
makers to make sure that the ˜nal outcome 

is fair to American banks and that they are 

fully free to compete in the face of increas-
ingly tough global competition. 
Basel III, procyclicality, group think and the 
role of judgment
Quantitative easing may be good policy to 
help the economy recover, but it does arti-

˜cially increase the value of government 

and government-guaranteed securities. The 

new Liquidity Coverage Ratio gives govern-

ment and government-guaranteed securities 

credit only for being liquid Œ no other assets, 

including gold, equities or corporate bonds 

have 
any liquidity value. This also creates 

higher demand and, therefore, a higher arti-

˜cial value for government securities. The 

Volcker Rule, as it currently is written, also 

allows unimpeded trading and liquidity for 

government securities and a lot less liquidity 

for everything else. Pension accounting is 

forcing pensions to hedge their liabilities 

by buying ˜xed-rate securities at precisely 

the wrong time. Banks hold large available-

for-sale securities portfolios to manage their 

assets and liability risk management. And 

if rates ever go up (and they will) and there 

are losses in these portfolios, the losses will 

have to be deducted in capital Œ even though 

the liabilities that they are hedging are not 

being marked-to-market. All the items we 
just mentioned could be looked at as one 

large ﬁcrowded trade.ﬂ If things ever start to 

go wrong, everyone could head to the exit 

door at the same time. Your company has 

positioned itself to be protected against 

rapidly rising rates Œ in fact, the company 

would bene˜t if either short-term or long-

term rates went up.
Markets already are naturally procyclical, 
and Basel III makes it worse. In a crisis, Basel 

III demands that even more capital be held 

against risky assets. We estimate that the 

swing in Tier 1 common capital from benign 

times to crisis times could be as much as 

a 20% di˚erence in the capital ratio. We 

should try to make Basel III countercyclical Œ 

but certainly not more procyclical.Finally, the ultimate goal, with which we 
mostly agree, is to have Basel III applied 

fairly and evenly around the world. But 

this leads to another potential set of issues. 

Everyone will start to have an increasingly 

more common view of the risk of a certain 
type of asset. This is what happened in 

the United States when everyone thought 

mortgages were completely safe. Models 

eventually will replace judgment Œ and this 

is a terrible idea. Models always are back-

ward looking and don™t capture true under-

lying shifts and changes that a˚ect credit 

or markets; e.g., increasing or reducing 

liquidity, structural changes in industries 

that dramatically change the riskiness of an 

industry (think of what the Internet did to 
newspapers) or real quality underwriting vs. 

lax underwriting. And models have a hard 

time capturing concentration and correla-
tion of risks (think of oil and real estate in 
oil regions). Many years ago in the United 

States, there were approximately eight large 

banks in Texas. Within ˜ve years after the 

oil crisis, only one survived as an indepen-

dent bank. The others were either sold under 

duress or went bankrupt Œ not because of 

their oil exposure but because of their real 

estate exposure. Models cannot replace judg-

ment, and judgment helps to balance and 

diversify the global ˜nancial system. 
27 VI. THE MORT
GAGE BUSINESS Œ THE GOOD, THE BAD 
  
AND THE UGLYMany of the ˜nancial crises of the past 
hundred years around the world were 

related to real estate. Real estate was not 

the only culprit in the recent crisis, but 

it certainly was at the eye of the storm. I 

suspect that the mortgage crisis will be the 

worst ˜nancial catastrophe of our lifetime. 

What the world experienced was almost a 

collective brain freeze Œ traditional mortgage 

underwriting loosened over time (actively 

supported by the U.S. government) such that 

we got Alt-A mortgages, subprime mort-

gages and option-adjustable rate mortgages 

(option-ARM). These mortgages were pack-

aged into securities (sometimes guaran-
teed by government entities and insurance 

companies), and home ownership was going 

up Œ it all seemed to be working. But as the 

process unfolded, unscrupulous mortgage 

o˝cers were mis-selling mortgages, some 

borrowers were lying on mortgage docu-

ments and speculation was rampant. It was 

a disaster hidden by rising home prices 

and false expectations, and once that price 

bubble burst, we all were in trouble.
We need to write a letter to the next genera-
tion that says, ﬁNever forget: 80% loan to 

value and verify appropriate income.ﬂ
Clearly, it was not our ˜nest hour
We were one of the better actors in this 

situation Œ but not good enough; we made 

too many mistakes. 
We generally were a 

better underwriter. We did not originate 

option-ARMs. Many of our problems were 

inherited from Bear Stearns and WaMu. 

Even our subprime mortgages outperformed 

most other subprime mortgages. Early in the 

crisis, we also stopped dealing with mort-

gage brokers, some of whom underwrote the 

worst of the mortgages and probably mis-

sold mortgages more than most. 
But we did participate in this disaster by 

originating mortgages that wouldn™t have 

been given a decade earlier (and won™t be 

given a decade later). And when delinquen
-
cies and foreclosures grew dramatically, we 

were ill-prepared operationally to deal with 

the extraordinary volume of troubled mort
-
gages and upset borrowers. Our servicing 

operations left a lot to be desired: There were 

too many paperwork errors, including a˝
-
davits that were improperly signed because 

the signers did not have personal knowledge 

about what was in the a˝davits but, instead, 

relied on the company™s processes. However, 

the information in the a˝davits was largely 

accurate Œ i.e., the borrower, in fact, was in 

default, we did have the mortgage and so on. 
Gearing up to deal with this problem meant 
overcoming the multiple and poor systems 

we inherited from our acquisitions of Bear 

Stearns and WaMu. In addition, there 

were numerous government modi˜cation 

and re˜nancing programs and multiple 

changes to these programs to contend with, 

some of which involved extensive and 

hard-to-complete paperwork. We now have 

23,000 people servicing delinquent loans 

or dealing with foreclosures Œ up from 

6,800 people in 2008. 
These problems, as one might expect, led to a 
myriad of lawsuits from various U.S. govern
-
ment agencies, attorneys general from the 50 

states and private investors. 
We have settled with the U.S. government 
and state attorneys general and imple-

mented strong new policies Œ for the good 

of all. In February 2012, JPMorgan Chase 

and four other top mortgage servicers 

agreed to a global settlement with the U.S. 

Department of Justice, the U.S. Department 

of Housing and Urban Development, the 

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and 

the state attorneys general. The settlement 

relates to the servicing and origination prob-
lems mentioned above. 
28For us, the settlement will consist of the 
following:

$1.1 billion (a portion of which will be  
set aside for payments to borrowers) to  
50 states.

re˜nancing relief to certain ﬁunderwaterﬂ 

borrowers whose loans are owned by  
the ˜rm.
additional relief for certain borrow
ers, 
including reductions of principal on ˜rst 

and second liens, payments to assist with 

short sales, de˜ciency balance waivers 

on past foreclosures and short sales, and 

forbearance assistance for unemployed 

homeowners. 

ne
w set of enhanced nationwide standards 
for mortgage servicing, including require
-
ments around single point of contact, 

sta˝ng levels and training, communication 

with borrowers and document execution in 

foreclosure cases. The standards also will 

require banks to o˚er modi˜cations and 

other foreclosure alternatives for borrowers 

before pursuing foreclosure Œ a practice 

in which we have and will continue to be 

actively engaged. We support these new 

standards Œ they will help establish a higher 

level of transparency and clarity for servicer 

activities and, ultimately, will strengthen the 

stability of the industry as a whole. (I will 

talk later in more detail about all the things 

we are doing, in addition to the things 

mentioned above, to help homeowners.)
The global settlement releases JPMorgan 

Chase from further claims related to 
servicing activities, including foreclosures 

and loss mitigation activities, certain origi-

nation activities and certain bankruptcy 
activities. Not included in the settlement 

are claims from investors in private label 

securities who are making claims both on 
representations and warranties (i.e., that the 

underwriting wasn™t done according to the 

standards in the securities contracts), as well 

as lawsuits claiming there were misstate-

ments in the underwriting of the securities. 
We have substantial reserves for mortgage 

litigation. One of the challenges our ˜rm 

continues to face following the economic 

crisis is litigation relating to mortgage-backed 

securities issued by JPMorgan Chase, Bear 

Stearns and WaMu. Investors have brought 

securities litigation, trustees have demanded 

loan repurchases and regulators continue to 

scrutinize these transactions. As I always have 

said, we will honor our obligations. However, 

we also will defend against demands that are 

not reasonable. Securities claims brought by 

sophisticated investors who understood and 

accepted the risks associated with their invest
-
ments Œ which, in some cases, are current and 

still paying Œ face substantial legal hurdles. 

Likewise, we are going to ˜ght repurchase 

claims that pretend the steep decline in home 

prices and unprecedented market conditions 

had no impact on loan performance or that 

seek to impose liabilities on us that we believe 

reside with third-party originators (or, in the 

case of WaMu securitizations, with the FDIC). 

These plainti˚s face a long and di˝cult road, 

and, as a result, litigation over these issues 

could take many years. Nonetheless, we have 

set aside signi˜cant reserves to handle these 

exposures.
How we are trying to properly and fairly 
deal with delinquencies, modi˜cations and 

foreclosures
First, some facts: Of 76 million owned homes 
in America, 24 million do not have a mort-

gage. Of the remaining 52 million homes 

with mortgages, approximately 4.7 million 

have a delinquent mortgage. And approxi-

mately half of those that are delinquent are 
on homes where the value of the home is 

worth less than the mortgage. Another 10+ 

million homeowners are current on their 
mortgages, but their houses are worth less 

than their mortgages. (We estimate that 

approximately 25% of these mortgages ulti-

mately will go into default Œ homeowners for 

the rest will continue to pay and, it is hoped, 

will recover the value of their homes.)
29Here is where we stand and how we are 
trying to deal with the situation:If we treated a homeowner improperly, 
we should make it right. 
Anyone who 

was mis-sold a loan or was foreclosed on 

improperly deserves redress. Mis-selling 

a loan is where the borrower was misled 

about signi˜cant loan terms or fees or 
interest rates that were higher than they 

should have been. An improper foreclo-

sure is one in which the homeowner did 

not owe the money or was not in default. 

If it comes to our attention that we partici-

pated in any of these situations, we will 

˜x them immediately. That said, however, 

many loans were taken out by unscrupu-

lous borrowers, individuals who either 

lied about their income or lied about their 
intention to live in the home Œ they clearly 

were speculating that they could ﬁ˛ipﬂ 

the real estate for a pro˜t on rising home 

prices. These individuals should not receive 

help for any reason.

mortgage Œ whether or not the home is 
underwater Œ the mortgage should be 

paid. A mortgage is a loan collateralized by 
the house. It is not a loan that one should 

feel free to walk away from if the house 

goes down in value. Most of the people in 

this situation can, and do, pay their mort-

gages. Some attempt a ﬁstrategicﬂ default 

Œ even if they can a˚ord to pay, they just 

walk away. Even though they still owe 

the di˚erence, it is hard for the lender to 

collect. It is hoped, as the housing market 

recovers, these ﬁunderwaterﬂ homeowners 

will get equity back in their homes.

-we try to modify the loan. 
When a mort-gage becomes delinquent, we make a very 

concerted e˚ort to contact the person. We 

start reaching out as early as 15 days after 

a loan becomes delinquent and, for some 

homeowners, make a hundred or more 

attempts before foreclosure. We are sympa-

thetic with these borrowers because most 

of them are unable to make their payments 

for legitimate reasons Œ someone lost a 

job, someone got sick or a person™s income 

level dropped precipitously. In these cases, 
we try to modify the mortgage Œ both 

under a government initiative called Home 

A˚ordable Modi˜cation Program (HAMP), 

which has strict requirements, and through 

our Chase Home A˚ordable Modi˜ca-

tion Program (CHAMP), where we can be 

more ˛exible. We often can reduce the 

interest rate to as low as 2% and, in some 

cases, reduce the principal. Since 2009, 

we have o˚ered over 1.2 million modi˜ca-

tions and completed more than 450,000. 
We have reduced payments to borrowers 

by a current run rate of $1 billion annually. 

Ultimately, we expect to reduce payments 

over the years by more than $10 billion. 

For loans owned by JPMorgan Chase, we 

already have deferred principal of $1.5 

billion, forgiven over $2.1 billion in prin-

cipal and reduced interest payments by 

$1.2 billion. And by the end of the process, 

we expect to have forgiven principal of 

approximately $4.5 billion and reduced 

interest payments by a total of $3.5 billion.
 We treat loans to inv
estors (i.e., loans in 
private label securities) the same way we 

treat loans that we own. It is important 

to note that all modi˜cations are done 
according to speci˜c contracts. These 

contracts stipulate that you can modify 

a mortgage only when it is better for the 

lender than foreclosing, all things consid-

ered (i.e., the net present value of a modi-

˜ed loan is worth more than going through 

a foreclosure process, with all its expense, 

and ultimately selling the home at a very 

distressed price).
even with the modi˜cation,
 we still try to 
avoid foreclosure. 
If someone can™t a˚ord 

a mortgage at 2%, even using a reduced 

valuation on the house, foreclosure is the 

last option. Since 2009, we have prevented 

approximately 750,000 foreclosures 

through our various programs, including 

modi˜cations Œ twice as many as have 

been foreclosed. 
 Programs designed to prevent foreclosures 
include short sales or deeds-in-lieu situa-tions in which the homeowner agrees to 

sell the house or lets us sell the house. In 

some cases, we pay homeowners to sell their 

homes, and we waive de˜cient loan balances 

(waiving de˜cient loan balances represents 

debt forgiveness to these borrowers). These 

foreclosure programs have cost us $6 billion 

so far, including direct payments of $150 

million and balance waivers of $5.8 billion. 

When these programs conclude, we expect 

to have paid a total of $650 million in direct 

payments and more than $12 billion in 

balance waivers. 

While foreclosure is a terrible option, it sometimes is the only option. 

While it is awful for the homeowner, it 

does allow an individual to get a fresh start 
and more a˚ordable housing Œ and relief 

from a crushing debt burden. Foreclosure is 

the worst option for the bank, too, because 

the house usually is left in poor condition 
and sold for substantially less than the 

outstanding balance on the loan, resulting 

in a loss. (We even, from time to time, 

make payments to people to help them 

leave the home in good condition and be 

able to a˚ord to relocate.) By the time we 

actually foreclose on someone, we gener-

ally have not received a payment for 17+ 

months; and in 54% of the cases, the house 

was either vacant or occupied by someone 

other than the owner. The loss to the bank, 

in e˚ect, becomes loan forgiveness to the 

individual Œ but this ﬁforgiveness,ﬂ it is 

hoped, is going only to people who really 

need it: people who truly are unable to pay 

and really need the debt relief. Since 2007, 

JPMorgan Chase has recognized losses on 

˜rst mortgages of more than $21 billion due 

to foreclosures and charge-o˚s. Ultimately, 

we will have recognized more than $27 

billion in foreclosures and charge-o˚s.

-˜ed if we modify the mortgage loan and 


short sale or foreclosure. We treat home equity loans that we own exactly the same 

whether we own the ˜rst mortgage or 

service it for someone else. When the ˜rst 

mortgage is modi˜ed, the home equity loan 

generally is modi˜ed, and the modi˜cation 
terms typically are at least as generous to 
the borrower as the terms of the ˜rst mort
-
gage. The home equity loan essentially will 

pay o˚ only if the ˜rst mortgage ultimately 

pays o˚. Importantly, if the ˜rst mortgage 

is ever foreclosed on or written down due 

to a short sale, the second mortgage almost 

always is written o˚. Since 2007, we have 

recognized losses of more than $16 billion 

in home equity loans and expect as much as 

another $5 billion over the next few years.
This is a miserable situation all around, but 

we want our shareholders to know that we 

are trying to treat every borrower fairly and 

properly based on the individual™s situation 

and circumstances.
But it also will be the best of  JPMorgan Chase
We have brought enormous resources to 
bear on ˜xing our mortgage business. Many 

of our top executives volunteered to help Œ 

and we now have some of our best people 

from ˜nance, risk, technology and operations 

devoted to this e˚ort. As a result, we are 

responding rapidly and are improving across 

the board. For example:
In early 2009, Chase opened the ˜rst customers under ˜nancial stress stay in 
their homes. We now have 82 brick-and-
mortar centers located in 28 states and 
the District of Columbia, regions hardest 

hit by the housing crisis. Six of the 82 

are near military bases, and the mortgage 

counselors at these centers receive special 

training to understand general military 
issues, special military programs and the 

Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. Over 

the past two years, our Borrower Assis-

tance employees have met with more than 

273,000 customers who are behind in their 
payments or are likely to be, and Chase has 

held 1,800 outreach events for homeowners 

who need assistance.

servicing platform, whic
h, in fact, was 
three legacy technology systems from 

Chase, Bear Stearns and WaMu, was 

consolidated. This was a huge 13-month 

e˚ort that resulted in one Chase system, 

one way to serve customers, and a better 

and more consistent customer experience. 
31
both external and internal surveys ha
ve improved considerably. 
In the 2011 J.D. 
Power Mortgage Origination survey, Chase 

jumped to #5 from #12 in customer satis-
faction among lenders nationwide Œ the 
largest improvement of any company. 

(We™re still not satis˜ed with being #5.) At 

the same time, customer complaints have 

declined more than 60% from a high point 
in May 2011.
The mortgage business is important Š  
that™s why we are going to stay in it 
Providing a mortgage Œ helping our 
customers own and stay in their homes Œ is 

one of the most important and emotional 
connections we have with our customers. 

It also is a product that has the potential 
to deepen our relationship with customers. 

Our Retail branch franchise and brand give 

us an enormous competitive advantage in 

the mortgage business. There are 5.7 million 

customers who have an existing Chase 

mortgage. But with a base of 50 million 

customers, we think we could double the 

number of mortgage customers. 
Once we ˜nish ˜xing it, the mortgage busi-
ness will be a great one for JPMorgan Chase. 

The winners in the business will be those 
who have good customer relationships 

and are good at large-scale servicing and 
processing Œ right up our alley. Normalized 

earnings for this business should be about 

$2 billion, with a through-the-cycle return on 

equity (ROE) of about 15%. We continue to 

invest in this business by growing our sales 

force and introducing technology applica-

tions to improve the customer experience. 

Over the past year, we added 700 loan o˝-

cers Œ bringing our total to 3,800 Œ and we 

are serving more customers as a result. Plus 
we plan to hire an additional 1,000 loan o˝-

cers in 2012.Housing is getting better Œ there, I said it
There has been a tremendous focus on the 

fact that housing prices remain depressed 
and, in fact, are still going down some. The 

large ﬁshadow inventoryﬂ of homes in delin-

quency or foreclosure that has not yet hit 

the sale market adds to the fears that this 
will continue for a long time. New home 

construction still is very depressed Œ so, to 

most, the future looks bleak. However, if one 

looks at the leading indicators, all signs are 

˛ashing green Œ the turn is coming if it is 
not here already. We don™t want to be blindly 

optimistic, but the facts are the facts:

United States has added 3 million people a year since the crisis beg
an four years ago. 
We will add 30 million people in the next 

10 years. 

create a need for 1.2 million additional 

housing units each year. Household forma-
tion has been half of that for the past four 

years. Our economists believe that there is 

huge pent-up demand and that household 
formation will return to 1.2 million a year 

as job conditions improve.



slowly. In the last 24 months
, 3.45 million 
jobs have been created. 



units were built annually o
ver the last four 
years Œ and the destruction of homes from 

demolition, disaster and dilapidation has 

averaged 250,000 a year. The growth of 

new households, even at a reduced rate, has 

been able to absorb all of this new supply, 

and more.

and condos for sale currently is 2.7 million 

units, down from a peak of 4.4 million 
units in May 2007. It now would take 

only six months to sell all of the houses 
for sale at existing sales rates, down from 

12 months two years ago. (This low of 

an inventory number normally would 

be considered a positive sign for future 

housing prices.)




abov
e still is signi˜cant, it has shown a 
visible declining trend since peaking at the 

end of 2009, when the number of loans 

delinquent 90+ days or in foreclosure was 

5.1 million homes. It now totals 3.9 million, 

and we estimate it could be 3 million in 12 

months. The shadow inventory also may 
32move more quickly as mortgage servicers 
get better at packaged sales and short 

sales and as real money investors start to 

buy foreclosed homes and rent them out 

for a good pro˜t. Home prices still are 

going down a little bit, and they will stay 

depressed for a while. Distressed sales (short 

sales, foreclosure sales, real estate-owned 

sales) still are 25% of all sales, and these 

sales typically are priced 30% lower than 

non-distressed sales. As the percentage 

of distressed sales comes down over the 

next 12-24 months, their negative e˚ect on 

housing prices will start to diminish.
a˚ordability due to both low home prices 

and low mortgage rates. 

half of the markets in 
America Œ this has not been true for more than 15 years. Rela-

tively high rental prices can be a precursor 

to increasing home prices. 

are ˜nding more solid ˜nancial footing 

relative to their debt. The household debt 
service ratio, which is the ratio of mortgage 

plus consumer debt payments to dispos-

able personal income, stands at its lowest 

level since 1994. This is a result of rapid 

consumer deleveraging Œ household mort-

gage debt now is down $1 trillion from its 

2008 peak. (Reported U.S. mortgage data 

do not remove mortgage debt from an 

individual™s debt obligations until there is 

an actual foreclosure. It is estimated that 

$600 billion of the $9 trillion in currently 
outstanding mortgage debt is not paying 

interest today and e˚ectively could be 

removed now from these numbers.) 


Federal Reserv
e show that, while there are 
not yet clear signs of credit loosening for 

new mortgages, at least the rush to tighten 

mortgage lending standards has abated.


-gages have been re˜nanced, substantially 

aiding homeowner burdens. We expect 

another $2 trillion to re˜nance over the 

next two years, with approximately 10% 

coming from recently announced govern-

ment programs, and, at that point, we esti-

mate that only 15%-20% of Americans will 

be paying interest rates over 6%.
More jobs, more households, more Ameri-

cans, good value Œ it™s just a matter of time.
33 VII.
  
COMMENTS ON THE FUTURE OF INVESTMENT 
BANKING AND THE CRITICAL ROLE OF MARKET MAKINGWe believe that investment banks provide a 
critical role in facilitating the ˛ow of capital 

to meet client needs and that those needs 

will grow dramatically in the next 10 years
It is important to look at any business from 
the point of view of the client. Our 5,000 
issuer clients and 16,000 investor clients will 

have large and growing needs in the future. 
Corporate clients™ need for equity and debt 
issuance, M&A and other advice, and balance 

sheet management is projected to almost 

double over the next 10 years. Global infra
-
structure investment will more than double 

over a two-decade period Œ it is projected to 

reach $3.7 trillion by 2030.
(a) Total global 
˜nancial assets of consumers and businesses, 

which now total $198 trillion, are projected 
 to nearly double to $371 trillion by 2020.
(b) Clearly, these huge capital and investing needs 

of clients will drive real underlying growth of 

the investment banking business. And 

JPMorgan Chase is in the sweet spot because 

much of the growth will be with our clients 

Œ large, often multinational companies, 

government-related entities and large global 

investors. And our role as an issuer of 

securities and as a market maker places us 

right in the center of key money ˛ows.
Of course, these business volumes, while 
they will grow over time, frequently have 

volatile swings within months, quarters and 

years. Not only can volumes easily move 

50% by quarter or year, but spreads and fees 

also can move dramatically, a˚ecting our 

revenue. The facts above convince us that 

the large slowdown we saw in the second 

half of last year was cyclical, not secular. And 

volatility does not make the business bad Œ it 

simply means you have to manage the busi-

ness, knowing that it can happen at any time. 

In 2011, a tough time for many investment 

banks, your J.P. Morgan Investment Bank 

earned a 17% ROE.Demystifying market making (trading) Š 
why it is so important
While most people understand corporate ˜nance fees are earned for stock or bond 

issuance or advice, market making is a 

mystery to most people Œ it remains a black 

box. We need to do a better job of describing 

the important role of market making and 

explaining how it can be done safely. Before 

I talk about our market-making business, it is 

important to recognize that market making is 

a normal function of any economy. While we 

make markets in general in ˜nancial instru
-
ments, others make markets in just about 

everything, everywhere Œ farmers markets, 

all types of food and commodities markets, 

lumber, paper, ink, advertising, steel, etc. 

Markets are simply where buyers and sellers 

meet to exchange products and services, and 

market makers facilitate the process. 
Sixteen thousand investor clients use our 
market-making services.
 These clients 

include mutual funds, corporations, pension 

plans, states, municipalities, hospitals, 

universities, etc. The services we provide are 

research, advice and execution. Clients come 

to us when they want to buy or sell securities 

(in this section, when I refer to securities, I 

mean stocks, bonds and loans of companies, 

bonds of government entities, mortgage secu
-
rities of all types, commodities of all types, 

currencies of all types and derivatives on all 

of the aforementioned securities, including 

swaps, options, etc.).
It takes substantial resources to provide these 
services properly. We have more than 800 

professionals carrying out research on 4,300 

companies, 1,000 government entities (states, 

municipalities, etc.) and 80 countries Œ at a 

cost of approximately $600 million a year. We 

analyze securities, markets and economies 

around the world. Our job is to educate our 

investors and issuers and help them accom
-
plish their global ˜nancial objectives. 


Institute Study,
 Farewell to cheap 
capital? The implications of long-
term shifts in global investment 

and saving,


Institute Study, 
The emerging 
equity gap: Growth and stability 

in the new investor landscape
, 

34To execute trades, J.P. Morgan has more than 
110 trading desks around the world Œ 2,000 

traders Œ making markets and executing 

trades in securities, broadly de˜ned. And 

2,500 salespeople call on our 16,000 investor 

clients, o˚ering ideas and advice. Supporting 

our research, sales and trading are approxi
-
mately 13,000 technology and operations 

specialists and 4,000 control, ˜nance and risk 

management professionals across the Invest
-
ment Bank. In addition, we hold an average of 

$400 billion in inventory (securities, broadly 

de˜ned), which we turn over constantly, 

and we provide, on average, more than $250 

billion of securities ˜nancing for clients. Our 

market-making operations also help our issuer 

clients sell or raise approximately $430 billion 

of capital a year.
We trade over a trillion dollars of securities, 
broadly de˜ned, every day Œ for example, 

approximately 90,000 separate trades a day 

in our ˜xed income business alone. While we 

do business with 16,000 clients, the top 1,000 

clients account for a large portion of the busi
-
ness. These investors are smart and sophisti
-
cated Œ we want their repeat business, but we 

have to earn it. Presumably, they keep coming 

back to us because they value the services we 

provide; but if we did not give them great 

value and great prices, we probably would not 

get their business Œ they have lots of other 

options Œ and there is a lot of competition for 

their business. 
Our aim is simple Œ to provide our clients 
with sound investment ideas and value-

added, world-class execution at increasingly 

lower cost. 
The cost of these services to clients has 
been coming down dramatically over time 

Œ bene˜ting both investors and corporate 

issuers. Thirty years ago, it cost, on average, 

15 cents to trade a share of stock, 1% (100 

basis points) to buy or sell a corporate single-
A bond and $100,000 to do a $100,000,000 
interest rate swap. Today, it costs, on average, 

1.5 cents to trade a share of stock, 10 basis 

points to buy a corporate single-A bond and 
$4,000 to do a $100,000,000 interest rate 
swap. Market making creates great liquidity 

in the market, giving investors con˜dence 

that they can buy and sell securities Œ often 

at a moment™s notice. Market making also 
is being done at an increasingly lower cost 

of execution, which is a bene˜t to investors 

and issuers, buyers and sellers. Reducing 

spreads, or the cost to do a trade, means that 

the buyer gets to buy at a better price, 
and 
the seller gets to sell at a better price. This 

is no di˚erent from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 

o˚ering you great products at lower prices. 

Innovation in products, systems and markets 

has driven down these costs, and the investor 

and issuer are the bene˜ciaries.
Pro˜tability is driven by serving many 
clients well at a low cost to them Œ we 

take on risk, which we manage carefully, 

to serve our clients. A few examples will 

su˝ce. We have huge volumes of business, 

allowing us to o˚er good prices. For example, 

in North America Cash Equities, we buy and 

sell approximately 160 million shares a day 

at 1.5 cents per share. In foreign exchange 

trading, we do approximately 80,000 spot/

forward trades a day, netting only $70 a 

trade (75% is done electronically). In credit 
trading, we do 4,000 trades a day (mostly 

bonds), making $1,500 per trade. We also 

trade, on average, approximately 500 interest 

rate swaps a day. Certain products have 

higher fees associated with them, but fees 

generally are consistent with the risk and 
cost we need to take to execute the trade. In 

all of these examples, revenue obviously is 

o˚set by the cost of operating the business, 

including the cost of hedging. And when 

volumes drop or spreads tighten, the busi-

ness clearly becomes less pro˜table.
The revenue on 98% of our trades averages 
$50,000 or less Œ per trade. But on a handful 

of trades, we do make much larger fees 

because we serve our clients by taking on 

substantially more risk. Two examples will 

help explain. In one instance, we executed 

a multibillion dollar interest rate swap for 

a leading real estate company. In another 

trade, we executed a multiyear, half-billion 

dollar oil hedging program for a leading 

transportation ˜rm. On some of these large 
trades, we can make revenue of millions of 

dollars, but to do so, we take on large risks, 

which we prudently try to hedge Œ an under-

taking that frequently cannot be completed 
immediately. On occasion, after all is said 

and done, we may not make any revenue at 

all. However, our clients are happy Œ they 

have paid us to take on risks that they don™t 
35want. And when we assume the risk, it is our 
job to manage it so that we are paid fairly, on 

average, for the risk we took. 
In the market-making business, we actively 
try to hedge our positions to protect the ˜rm 
from violent price swings. But all hedges are 

not perfect, and some things simply cannot 

be hedged. So we do take risk by holding 

inventory, but that is the cost of doing busi-

ness Œ a cost not much di˚erent from the 

inventory a retailer or wholesaler holds in 

stores to serve their customers. (When they 

lose money on their inventory, it™s called 

markdowns or sales.) Holding inventory at 

appropriate levels is a cost of doing business 

Œ it is not speculating.
Many clients have a large need for deriva-
tives to manage their exposures. Even more 

misunderstood than market making in stocks 

and bonds is derivatives. Ninety percent of 

the global Fortune 500 companies actively 

use derivatives. They don™t use them because 

we want them to do so. They use them to 

manage their own exposures. Ninety percent 

of what they do, and what we do, is pretty 

basic Œ they use interest rate or foreign 

exchange (FX) derivatives to manage interest 

rate or FX exposures. In addition, clients use 

derivatives to manage commodity exposures, 

credit exposures and other risk exposures. 

Many companies have huge exposures that 

they need to hedge so that they are not badly 

hurt or even bankrupted by violent moves 

in prices. Farmers have been doing hedging 

for a long time, and, in the modern world, it 

also applies to airlines, banks, investors and 

others who have exposures to oil, interest 

rates, foreign exchange rates, etc. 
We tightly manage our risk in derivatives 
by limiting our risk to each counterparty, 

by limiting the type of risk we take within 

each counterparty and by taking substantial 

collateral against existing credit exposures. 

Today, our net credit exposure to all counter-

parties, net of collateral Œ in essence, what 

we are owed by our various counterparties 

Œ is approximately $70 billion. Most of our 

unsecured exposure is to government entities 

or corporate clients where we deliberately 

don™t ask for collateral, which essentially is a 

way to extend credit to them. With all of our 

major global market counterparties Œ think 
of all the other major ˜nancial institutions 
Œ we don™t leave any material unsecured 

derivatives exposure at all Œ we post collat-

eral to each other every day. 
One other great fear about derivatives is their 
ﬁlack of transparency.ﬂ If by ﬁtransparencyﬂ 

people mean transparent prices, derivatives 

actually are very transparent. Computer 

screens provide immediate pricing and very 

accurate spread information on the majority 

of derivatives, and many dealers can respond 

with actual bids, in size and with very tight 

spreads, to anyone who calls. If by ﬁlack of 

transparencyﬂ people mean that the regulators 

cannot access the information they need to 

evaluate the risks, then that is incorrect Œ they 

can and do see everything we can see. Finally, 

if by ﬁtransparencyﬂ they mean that investors 

(our shareholders and debtholders) can™t see 

or understand the risks Œ that™s kind of true 

even though we make extensive disclosures. 

But you can look at any large company™s 

public disclosures, and there will be some, not 

deliberate, lack of transparency. For example, 

it™s not transparent what newspaper compa
-
nies pay for print or paper or how various 

companies have their inventory marked or 

what insurance companies™ true exposures 

are. We try to be as transparent as we can 

meaningfully be, without overwhelming our 

investors. We welcome any suggestions on 

how we can get even better at this.
primary market Œ where corporate and 
government-related entities issue securities. Because America has such deep secondary 

markets, corporate and government-related 

entities can issue large quantities of secu-
rities quickly and at a low cost. When a 

corporate bond issuer comes to market with 

a multibillion dollar issue, the world already 

has been educated on the company, the 

bonds usually are traded actively and the 

issue usually can be placed fairly quickly at 

low cost to the issuer. 
This would not be possible if we did not 
have a high level of e˝ciency, activity and 

liquidity in the secondary markets where 

existing issues constantly are bought and 

sold. If secondary markets were traded with 

less frequency, then spreads Œ or costs Œ 
36would increase, thereby making it far more 
expensive for entities Œ public and private 

Œ to raise capital by issuing new securities. 

America has the widest, deepest and most 

transparent capital markets in the world at 

the lowest prices for both issuer and investor. 

While we clearly had some issues with 

parts of these markets and believe reform is 

needed Œ let™s not destroy the world™s best 

capital markets.
We do not disagree with the 
intent of the Volcker Rule.
 If the intent of the Volcker 

Rule was to eliminate pure proprietary 

trading and to ensure that market making is 

done in a way that won™t jeopardize a ˜nan-

cial institution, we agree. And we believe 

there are many ways to accomplish this: by 

holding proper capital, by insisting on proper 

liquidity, by proper marking of positions, 

by proper reporting of risk, by constantly 

turning over the risk in inventory positions 

as appropriate for the type of security Œ 

trading in illiquid securities will have less 

turnover than trading in government securi-

ties Œ and by making sure that most trading 

is customer driven Œ much of the trading the 

Street does with itself is e˚ectively to syndi-

cate out unwanted risk, which is no di˚erent 

from loan syndication. But by its nature, 

market making requires that traders, in order 

to facilitate client business, take positions in 

inventory that they hope to sell later.
The reader should understand that loans, a 
traditional bank function, are proprietary, 

illiquid and risky by their nature Œ but that 

doesn™t make them bad. And most banks 

that have gone bankrupt did so by making 

bad loans Œ not by trading. Loans and 

market making both serve a critical function: 

˜nancing the American business machine.
The Volcker Rule and derivatives rules 

need to be formulated in such a way as not 

to severely inhibit American banks™ ability 

to compete and serve clients. If the Volcker 

Rule or the derivatives rules are written in 

a way that constrains our ability to actively 

make markets or to competitively provide 

derivatives to our clients, our future will not 

be as bright as it could be. For both rules, one 

of the key questions is how they will apply 

to business conducted outside the United 
States. We cannot and should not be in a 

position where the rule a˚ects U.S. banks 

outside the United States but not our foreign 

competition. Not only would we be unable 

to compete e˚ectively in Europe, Asia and 

Latin America, but much of the business that 

we currently do in America (with investors 

or corporations) likely will move to foreign 

jurisdictions because our competitors will 
be able to o˚er a better deal. No matter how 
much our clients may like us, they will (and 

should) move their business if they get better 

pricing elsewhere.
In any case, we are well-positioned to be a 
winner in the investment banking business. 

While we do believe that there will be some 

large-scale changes a˚ecting the business Œ 

driven by both regulation and innovation Œ 

J.P. Morgan has the breadth Œ we are one of 

the top players in almost all of the markets 

that we deal in Œ and necessary economies of 

scale to emerge as a winner. 
37 VIII. WHY WOULD Y
OU WANT TO OWN THE STOCK? 
With record earnings, top three positions in 
each of our major businesses and clear paths 

to growth, why hasn™t the stock done better?
There are many issues that are causing inves-
tors concern, creating legitimate reasons for 

why bank values are depressed. Our stock 

closed the year at $33.25, lower than it was 

˜ve years earlier. Over that time period, we 

underperformed the Standard & Poor™s Index 

by 22% although we outperformed the Bank 

Index* by 41%. (As of March 15, 2012, at 

the time I am writing this letter, the stock 

has recovered to $45 a share, and these two 

numbers would be a 7% underperformance 

and a 60% outperformance, respectively).
In the beginning of this letter, I mentioned 
that we are buying back a substantial 

amount of stock despite all the issues facing 

our company. Given these issues, we feel we 

owe you an explanation about why we are 

doing this and how we view the stock.
There are signi˜cant issues a˚ecting  
the stock valuation Š but they will resolve 

over time
Banks do face a plethora of di˝cult and potentially damaging issues. Since the crisis, 

we have met with many bank investors who 

have said, ﬁBank stocks are uninvestible,ﬂ and 

they cite the following reasons:

recov
ery in the United States and large potential problems in Europe 
reduced margins
United States


much higher capital and liquidity standards
 and the fear that given so much capital and 
regulatory constraints, we won™t be able to 

earn an adequate return on our capital
 to even more regulation and litigation 

 large banks and from less regulated 

shadow banksThese issues are real and substantial. 
Regarding the ˜rst three issues, we have 
an abiding faith that the United States will 
recover, interest rates will normalize and 

housing will get better. We™re already starting 

to see some hopeful signs. We also believe 

we are reserved substantially for mortgage 

litigation (as we™ve already described). 
Much of the uncertainty around regulation 
will be resolved over the next 12-24 months. 

In my opinion, only two regulations mate-

rially can hurt our competitive ability (the 

Volcker Rule and the derivatives rules, which 

I spoke about in the last section). We believe 

they both will be properly resolved in a way 

that will allow us to compete fairly. We also 

believe there will be a lot of unintended 

consequences as a result of the complexity 

and interplay of all the regulations. And 

Œ while I have expressed my concerns on 

behalf of the consumer, the industry and the 

country Œ my sense is that JPMorgan Chase 

could bene˜t from as many unintended 

consequences as we will be hurt by them. 

This, however, may not be true for some of 

our competitors. 
Finally, it is possible that we may be required 
to hold more capital than our main competi-
tors, but we still believe we will ˜nd ways to 

manage both our capital and our businesses 
such that we earn adequate returns. 
As all of these issues are resolved, we will 
be left with a stronger and more competi-
tive company, our earnings will be higher, 

our industry will be growing and our future 

will be bright.


38Why we bought back the stock and how we 
look at stock value
good, very conservative measure of share-
holder value. If your assets and liabilities 
are properly valued, if your accounting is 

appropriately conservative, if you have real 

earnings without taking excessive risk and if 

you have strong franchises with defensible 

margins, tangible book value should be a 

very conservative measure of value.
And we have substantial, valuable  
intangibles. Our brand, our clients, our 

people, our systems and our capabilities are 

not replicable Œ even if I gave you hundreds 

of billions of dollars to do it. We have many 

businesses that earn extraordinary returns 

on equity because there is very little equity 

involved; e.g., much of our asset manage-

ment business, our advisory business, parts 

of our payments businesses and others. 
Many of our assets would sell at a substantial 
premium to what currently is on the books; 
e.g., credit card loans, consumer branches 

and others. To be honest, some also would 

sell at a discount vs. what they™re on the 

books for Œ though many of these assets or 

loans will give us the cash ˛ow return we 

expect and which normally are attached to 

a client where we earn a lot of non-loan-

related, highly pro˜table revenue (i.e., cash 

management, etc.). The loan itself might 

sell at a discount, but the whole relationship 

would not. And, certainly, most of our busi-

nesses, if we sold them whole, would sell at a 

substantial premium to tangible book value. 
the dividend) is alwa
ys to build our busi-ness organically Œ particularly where we have signi˜cant competitive advan-

tages and good returns. We already have 

described many of those opportunities in 

this letter, and I won™t repeat them here. The 

second-highest use would be great acqui-

sitions, but, as I also have indicated, it is 

unlikely that we will do one that requires 

substantial amounts of capital.We have huge capital generation.
 When 
you look out many years into the future, 

JPMorgan Chase should generate huge 

amounts of capital, and much of it will be 

hard to deploy. Unfortunately, the CCAR test 

restricts our ability to buy back stock because 

it looks at just two years of capital genera-

tion. So while we have less capital than the 

9.5% that we currently believe we will need 

under Basel III, once we get there, we will 

be generating extreme amounts of excess 

capital. And our organic growth and acquisi-

tions unlikely will be able to use it all.
So buying back stock is a great option Œ 
you can do the math yourself.
 Haircut our 
earnings numbers that analysts project and 
forecast buying back, say, $10 billion a year 

for three years at tangible book value. With 

these assumptions, after four years, not only 

would earnings per share be 20% higher than 

they otherwise would have been, but tangible 

book value per share would be 15% higher 

than it otherwise would have been. If you like 

our businesses, buying back stock at tangible 

book value is a very good deal. So you can 

assume that we are a buyer in size around 

tangible book value. Unfortunately, we were 

restricted from buying back more stock when 

it was cheap Œ below tangible book value Œ 

and we did not get permission to buy back 

stock until it was selling at $45 a share. 
Our appetite for buying back stock is not as 
great (of course) at higher prices. If you run 

the same numbers as above, but at $45 per 

share, buybacks would be accretive to earn
-
ings and approximately break even to tangible 

book value Œ still attractive but far less so. 

Currently, above $45 a share, we plan to 

continue to buy back the amount of stock that 

we issue every year for employee compensa
-
tion Œ we think this is just good discipline. 
 As for the excess capital, we will either ˜nd 

good investments to make or simply use it 

to more quickly achieve our new Basel III 

targets. Rest assured, the Board will continu
-
ously reevaluate our capital plans and make 

changes as appropriate but will authorize a 

buyback of stock only when we think it is a 

great deal for you, our shareholders. 
39The tables above show our earnings per 
share and tangible book value per share 

over the last six years. I™d like to make 

one last comment about our stock and 

your company. I view it as a great sign of 

strength that, in the worst ˜nancial markets 
since the Great Depression, your company 

could earn money, grow tangible book 

value, buy Bear Stearns and WaMu and 

expand our franchise. 
 ˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙˜˚˚ˆ
˜˚˚ˇ˜˚˛˝˛˛
˜˙˚˝ˆˇ
˜˙˙˝˘˙
˝
˝˚˛
˜ˇˆ
˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙˜˚˚ˆ
˜˚˚ˇ˘
˜˚
˜˚˘
˜˘
˜˚˚˛
˜
˜˚˛ˆˇ
˝

˜˚
˜˙˝˙ˇ
˜ˆˇ
˝
Earnings and Diluted Earnings 
per Share 
 2006-2011 ($ in millions, except diluted EPS)
Tangible Book Value per Share 
 
2006-2011Let me close by thanking our 260,000 employees. Day in and day 
out, they are the people who serve our clients, communities and 

shareholders with distinction and dedication. They make me very 

proud, and I am honored to be their partner. 
CLOSINGJamie Dimon
 
Chairman and Chief Executive O˝cer
March 30, 2012
