2010 Annual Report
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˝˝
˙ˆˇ˘
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
ˇ
˙
˙
˙
˜˚˛˝˚˛˙ˆˇ
˘ˇ˙˙˛ˆˇ˛
˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

˚˜˛˚˛
˝
˜˚
˝
˛˝˙
˘˙˛ˇ

˝‘

˝˝˝˝‘

˝˝˝˝†

˝‡‡‘
˝˙
˘ˇ˝˚˛ˆ
˘˚
˘˚˛
˘
˝…š
˝—
˝˝
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝
˝−‰
˝‘
˝˝˝ˆ

˝˝˝ˇ

ﬁ
˝
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

˚˜˛˚˛
ˆ˚
˘ˆ


˝•
˝−‰
˝‡
˝•
˝−‰
˝ﬁ
˝•
˝−‰


˝•
˝−‰

˝˝˝ƒ

˝˝
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
—
ƒ

˝‘
˝⁄˝‘

˝„ﬁ

˝˝
˝…

˝ˆš˝˝

˝˝˝ˆ››ˇ

˝…
˝
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

˚˜˛˚˛
˝
˜˚
˛ˇˆ˚˛

š
ﬁ
›

˝˝

˝˙ˇ
˝Ł€ˇ
˝˝š
˝›€ˇ
˝ˆ˝


˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝š
›
˝
ﬁ
˝˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

˚˜˛˚˛
˝‘

˝˝

˝›

˝‘
˝‘š
˝˝‘
˝−
˝ƒ
˝—
˝˙ˇ
˝
ƒ
˝˝
˝„ﬁ


˝ˆš˝˝

˝˝Žı
˝Ž
ı
˝šˆ„
˝˛˙†ˇ˛
˘˙ˇˆ
˘˙
˘˛ˇˆ˛˙˛
˝łœ˛˝ž
ˆˇ›
˝ﬁ
˝‘€šﬁ
˝˛˚¡˛˛
˝
˚¢œ
˝£ﬁ
“‘ˇˆ˚˛
˘ˇ˛‘ˇ
˘˛˚˛˙
˘
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘


˝˝˙ˇ

˝ˆﬁ
š
˝˝


˝€š˝˝ˇ
˝˝

˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝

˝„ˇ

˝š
ﬁ
˝„ﬁ
˝˝
˝˙ˇ

˝˝˝„ﬁ

˚¢œ
˝˝„ﬁ

˝ˆ››ˇ
˝˝
˝„ﬁ

„
˝€š
˝ˆš
˝˝£ﬁ
˛ˇˆ
˘ˇ˝˚ˆ
˘˚†
˘‘ˇ
—
ƒ
˝›€ˇš
˝š
ˆ˚˚ˇ˛
˘˛ˇ
‘š
’ﬁ˝ž
˝•
˝‘
˝˝˝

˚¢œ
˝˝˝ƒˇ
—ˇ
˝˝˝¡
˝ŒšŠ
˝
˝ƒ


˝˝˝˝•
˝‘
˝˝˝

˜¡
˝ƒˇ
˝˝˝˝˝
˝ŒšŠ
˜˚
˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝łœ˛˝ž
ˆˇ›
˝ﬁ
˝‘€šﬁ
˝˛˚¡˛˛
˝˙ˆˇ
˘˙
ﬂƒ
˝ﬁ
˝ˇ


˝˝ﬁ


š

˝˝˝ﬁ

˝ﬁ

˝˝ˆš˝˝ˆ››ˇ

“ˇ˝ˇˇˆ
˘˛ˇˆˇ˛ˇ
˘˝
˘˘˙˚ˆ
˘’˛

˝‡‡˙˝
˝

˚

˝˜˛˛¡

˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝
ƒ
˝˝
˝−‰
˝‘

˝˝ı

˝ˆ˝ˇ

˝˚˛˛˛˛˛
˝˝ƒ
˝…
˝˙ˇ‰ﬁ
˝•
˝˝

ł˛˛
˝šˇ
˝˝˝œ˛˛˝‘‚
˜˝˝…š

˝ƒˇ
˝˝
˝ƒ
šˇ

˝˝

˝„ﬁ
˝’¦§ﬂ
˝˝—
˝•ˆˇ
˝‘
˝Œ—•‘Š

˝˝
˝ˆ˝˜˛¨
˝˝
˝ˇﬁ

˜˚˛˝˙˛˝ˆ˛˙˝ˆ




˛ˆ

˛˛˜˚˛˚˛˛˛˛˛˛†˛˜˚˚˛˝˙˝˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˙˝ˆ˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛–…˛˛˛†˛˛˛˛˛˛†˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛†˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛⁄˝˝−˛˛˛˛

˛˛˛˛˚†˛˛…˛”˛˛˛˛˚˛˛…˛˛˛˛“†˛˛˛”˛˛˛˛“˛˛˛›
˛˛˛˛˛˛›
˛˛˛˛˛˛›
˛›
˛˛˛˛
˙

˛˛˛˛†˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛‰

˝ˆ
‡


˛Œ
˛˝˙
˛˛


˛˛˜‘
‹
˛Ÿ˝ˆ

˛ˆ
˛˝˙™˚
˛˝˙˛˛˛˜‘
ı
˛Ž‰

˛‰ˇ‹

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘


›˝†˝˘˘
˝‘

−˝“
˜˝˘
‰˘…˙ˇ
›˙ˇˆƒ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ

˝
˙
†˝˘
˝‘
˝˘…†˙
˘

„˘
ˇ
ˇ˘
†ˇ˘‹
˝‘

“˝˙”
†˝
˙˝†˘˘
˝˙˝˙ˇƒ
˘…˝˘ˇ
ˇ˘
ˆ˝˙˘†˘
˘
…˘˙

˜˚
˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˇ˘




We continue to focus on the way forward.
Throughout 2010, JPMorgan Chase  
supported the economic recovery while  

also preparing for the future. We provided and raised $1.6 trillion for creditworthy 
businesses and consumers. We became the nation™s largest Small Business 
Administration lender, more than doubling our  

loan volume over 2009. And we approved more  

than $250 million in loans to small businesses  
through our second review process, making it possible 
 to turn ﬁnoﬂ into ﬁyes.ﬂ
 We helped hundreds of thousands of homeowners 
avoid foreclosure through our outreach counseling. 

And we committed more than $3 billion to a˜ordable 

housing developments for those in need. We supported not-for-pro˚ts and public services,  
raising nearly $100 billion in 2010 for hospitals,  

schools and communities across the country. 

Additionally, we gave in excess of $190 million*  

through grants and sponsorships to thousands of 
 not-for-pro˚t organizations across the United States 
 and in more than 25 countries.Over the past year, we, as always, have
 relied on our core values, our commitment 
 to clients and our fortress balance sheet to 
guide our actions. We will continue to serve 

our customers and the communities where 

they live and work.
This is the way JPMorgan Chase is making  
a di˜erence.This is the way forward.
* Contributions include charitable giving from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the JPMorgan Chase Foundation, 
and this giving is inclusive of $41.8 million in grants to Community Development Financial Institutions.
2Dear Fellow Shareholders,
Your company earned a record $17 billion in 2010, up 48% from $12 billion in 
2009. As points of reference: In 2008 Š which, as you know, was a year ˜lled 

with unprecedented challenges Š we earned $6 billion; and the year before, we 

earned $15 billion, a then-record for us. The performance of our JPMorgan Chase 

stock during this period of time Š and over the past decade (including heritage 

company Bank One) Š is shown in the chart on page 4. 
Our return on tangible equity for 2010 was 15%. Given your company™s earnings 
power, these returns should be higher. In a more normal environment, we believe 

we could earn approximately $22 billion to $24 billion. Your company™s earnings, 

particularly because of the business we are in, will always be somewhat volatile. 

The main reason for the di˚erence between what we 
should be earning and 
 
what we 
are
 earning is the extraordinarily high losses we still are bearing on 
mortgages and mortgage-related issues. These losses have been running at a 

rate of approximately $4 billion a year, after-tax, and, while they should come 

down over time, they, unfortunately, will continue at elevated levels for a while. 
On the brighter side, we increased our annual dividend to $1 per share and 
have re-established the ability to buy back stock if and when we think it™s 
 appropriate to do so.
Looking at these results in the context of the last three di˛cult years, what 
 particularly pleases me is how exceptionally our company performed, not 
 in absolute ˜nancial terms but in human terms. No matter how tough the 
 circumstances or how di˛cult the events, we were there for our clients and 
 our communities Š providing credit and raising capital. We provided credit 
 and raised capital of approximately $1.6 trillion for our clients in 2010 alone. 
 Those clients included hospitals, schools, local governments, municipalities, 
corporations, small businesses and individuals. While helping our clients 
 Š large and small Š prepare for the future, we continued to actively support the 

economic recovery. At the same time, we continued to invest in your 
 company™s future and to build our businesses Š opening branches and o˛ces 

and adding bankers across the globe, including hiring more than 8,000 people 

in the United States alone. As a result, we gained market share and became a 

better competitor in almost every single business.
3Jamie Dimon,Chairman and 
 Chief Executive O˛cer
The outstanding e˚orts of our 240,000 employees around the world enabled 
 our ˜rm to weather the worst economic storm in recent history and to emerge 
stronger than ever. And Š while we are proud of the many ways we rose to meet 

the untold challenges we faced Š we also are keenly aware of the ongoing 
 imperative to continually innovate and improve Š to get smarter, better, faster Š 
 in service to our clients. This is the only way we will be able to thrive going 
 forward and to overcome the challenges ahead. 
I™ve asked the chief executive of each of our lines of business to write you a letter 
about his or her respective business, both to review the 2010 results and to o˚er 

an outlook for the future. I hope as you read their letters in the section follow
-ing this letter that you get the same sense that I do: Across your company, we 

have talented leaders and great opportunities; we are performing well ˜nancially 

against our competition; we are investing in our organic growth; and, perhaps 

most important, we are focused on building quality businesses.
4Quality business, to us, means good clients; excellent products; constant innovation; 
state-of-the-art systems; and dedicated, capable, well-trained employees who care 
about the customers we serve. It means building consistently, not overreacting to 

short-term factors, and being trusted and respected by our clients in all the communi
-ties where we do business. In a risk-taking business, it is easy to generate increasingly 

better results in the short run by taking on excessive risk or by building lower quality 

business Š but you will pay for that in the long run. That is not what we are after.
In this letter, I will focus my comments on issues of great impact to our business:
I. The Post-crisis Environment: How We View the Signi˜cant Challenges Ahead
II. Big Opportunities: How We Will Grow in U.S. and International Markets
III. The Customer Experience: How We Will Continue to Improve It
IV.
 Global Financial Reform: How the Key Aspects Will A˚ect Our Businesses 
 and Our Country
V.
 Conclusion
Stock and Book Value Performance
Stock Total Return Analysis if You Became a Shareholder of the Respective Firms at December 31, 2000
  
Bank One  
Chase
   J.P. Morgan
  
S&P 500 10-Year Performance:
 Compounded Annual Gain
 7.0 % 2.5 % 2.7 % 1.4 % Overall Gain
 97.4  
28.1  
30.1  
15.1  Bank One/JPMorgan Chase Tangible Book Value per Share Performance vs. S&P 500 (2001-2010)
  Tangible Book Value per Share 
    of Bank One/JPMorgan Chase with
 S&P 500 with Relative Results
  Dividends Included (A) Dividends Included (B) (A) Š (B)10-Year Performance:
 Compounded Annual Gain
 13.6 % 1.4 % 12.2 % Overall Gain
 256.5  
15.1  
241.4 In addition to stock performance, we looked at tangible book value performance over the past 10 years. Tangible 
 book value over time captures the company™s use of capital, balance sheet and pro˜tability. In this chart, we are looking 
at heritage Bank One shareholders. The chart shows the increase in tangible book value per share; it is an after-tax 

number assuming all dividends were retained vs. the 
S&P 500 (a pretax number with dividends reinvested).  
This chart shows actual returns of the stock, with dividends included, for heritage shareholders of the company 
 vs. the 
Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500)
.5As we enter 2011, we ˜nd ourselves having 
weathered an epic storm Œ not just the global 
˜nancial crisis itself but its e˚ect on the 
global ˜nancial system and our industry. 

As a nation, we may have averted disaster 

thanks to a great collective e˚ort, but many 

challenges remain. A lot of work has been 

done Œ some of which has been excellent and 

necessary. Other aspects are less satisfactory 

and even potentially harmful, and we need 

to face and ˜x them in a thorough, balanced, 

intelligent manner. Su˛ce it to say that a 

good deal of work remains to be done. 
In our meetings with shareholders, we often 
are asked the following tough questions:

sovereign exposures and the geopolitical 










litigation around mortgages, municipali
-
ties, Bear Stearns, the bankruptcies of 








policies and looming ˜scal de˜cits a˚ect 
the long run to deal e˚ectively with other 

important problems it faces, including 

immigration, our energy policy, the 

environment, our education and health 

systems, our infrastructure and our still-





freely compete with increasingly formi
-
dable foreign banks, some of which are the 








Charlie Scharf deals with some of these 

questions in his letter later in this Annual 

Report. These issues are extremely complex 

and will take years to resolve. There is 

plenty of misinformation and a number 

of misconceptions around mortgages, and 

your company is going to make a dedicated 

e˚ort to describe in detail what we do, how 

we do it, what the right things to do are, 

what the mistakes we made are and how 

we will rectify them. I will not go into the 

details in this letter, but, rest assured, we 

are fully engaged on this issue of mort
-
gages, and you will be hearing more from 

us about it in the future.
In thinking about the answers to the ques
-
tions posed, it would be naive to be blindly 

and irrationally optimistic Œ or to be blindly 


the future with any real certainty, but we can 

o˚er our shareholders some insight into how 

we think about these issues, what they mean 

for the company and how we manage through 

them. Remember, our goal is not to guess the 

future; our goal is to be prepared to thrive 

under widely variable conditions. 
We Face the Future in a Strong Position 
Our businesses and management team are 
among the best in the industry. It is di˛
-
cult to replicate our franchises and the 

intelligence embedded in our expertise, in 

our systems and in the experience of our 

people. Our fortress balance sheet provides 

us with strong and growing capital Œ and we 

always are thinking far ahead about the best 

ways to deploy it. 





fortitude to use our capital wisely. Our ˜rst 

priority was to restore a decent dividend Œ 

this is what our shareholders wanted (if it 

were up to me personally, I would reinvest 
 I.
 THE
 P
OST
-C
RISIS
 E
NVIRONMENT
: H
OW
 W
E V
IEW
    THE
 SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGES AHEAD6all the capital into our company and not pay 
any dividend Œ but this is not what most 




completely clear about how we prioritize our 
use of capital. These priorities are:







growth Œ building great, long-term pro˜table 





for organic growth in each of our businesses.


add-ons and larger ones, but only if the 

price is right and we have a clear ability 

to manage the risks and execute properly. 

(If we are not running our own businesses 






-pline, we always will buy back the stock 




will buy back additional stock only when, 

looking forward, we see few opportunities 

to invest in organic growth and acquisi
-
tions. And we will buy back stock only 

when we believe it bene˜ts our remaining 

shareholders Œ not the ones who are selling 





opportunities in bad times. And, yes, we 

know we have made and will continue to 

make mistakes Œ all businesses do Œ but we 

hope to catch them early, ˜x them quickly 

and learn from them. 

intense competition everywhere we operate Œ 




brings Œ and it will bring both good and bad 

Œ we are prepared, and we expect to emerge 

among the leaders.
How We View European Sovereign and 
Geopolitical Risk
great collective endeavors of all time Œ 
where participating countries are striving to 

form a permanent union of nations for the 

bene˜t of all their citizens. 
In the short run, i.e., in the next year or two, 








starts, will work through its problems. It 
has the will and wherewithal to do so. The 







devoted to making this work Œ as their 

predecessors were for the past 60 years. The 

process will be messy, but the consequence 

of giving up could be far worse: Sovereign 

defaults could lead to a bank crisis with 

serious economic consequences. Since it 

is the same money (if sovereign nations 

recapitalize its banks by approximately the 
without causing additional complications.
Once the short-term issues are addressed, 
there likely will be some restructuring 

of the ˜scal and monetary agreements 

between the nations and possibly the 

restructuring of some of the nations™ debt. 
















able to achieve economic growth.

JPMorgan Chase™s gross exposures to 

Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy 

totaled approximately $40 billion Œ but net 

of collateral and hedges, our real exposures 






we reduced some of our exposures (essen
-
tially, the investment of excess cash for the 






associated with serving our clients, and we 

continued to actively conduct business in 

those nations. Our position was clear and 

consistent: to be there for our clients, not 

just in good times, but in bad times as well. 
Going forward, this mission will not change. 



to take them. For example, in the unlikely 
occurrence of extremely bad outcomes in all 

these countries, JPMorgan Chase ultimately 
7could lose approximately $3 billion, after-tax. 
But we are in the business of taking risks in 
support of our clients and believe that this 

is a risk worth bearing since we hope to be 

growing our business in these countries for 

decades to come. 
Our broader perspective on geopolitical 
uncertainty is that it is a constant state of 
a˚airs, which has been and always will be 

there, whether immediately visible or not. 

Such uncertainty is one of the main reasons 

we control our credit exposures and main
-
tain extremely strong capital and liquidity 
 
at all times. 
Before turning to the economic impact of the 


foremost, that the outcome of these historic 
movements will be to enhance the life and 

rights of the people in the region. For our company, in particular, our direct 
exposures are manageable. The key economic 

impact is if extreme turmoil leads to extraordi
-narily high oil prices, which then could cause 

a global recession. As you know, however, we 

always run this company to be prepared to 

deal with the e˚ects of a global recession.How We View Our Legal Exposures



issues Œ the detritus of the storm Œ for years 

to come. They range from mortgage-related 

litigation to lawsuits concerning Bear Stearns 

Brothers and others. 

we will ˜ght mightily to ensure a just 





Some of the legal challenges we face stem 

from our acquisitions of Bear Stearns and 



˜rms, there would be no lawsuits because 

there would be no money to pay Œ our deep 

pockets are an attractive target to plainti˚s. 

the world™s best, it also is one of the only 

legal systems that does not require the losing 
party to pay the winning party™s legal costs. 

Large actions against big companies, whether 

justi˜ed or not, have the potential to deliver 

large payo˚s. This lack of balance and fair
-ness too often results in outrageous claims. 



shareholders should know that we have set 

aside signi˜cant reserves to handle many of 

these exposures.
How We View the American Economy Š 
Short Term and Long Term
Five years ago, very few people seemed to 
worry about outsized risk, black swans and 

fat tails. Today, people see a black swan with 

a fat tail behind every rock. 



for the foreseeable future the mightiest 

economic machine on this planet. America 

is home to many of the best universities and 

companies in the world. It still is one of the 

greatest innovators. The volume and varia
-
tion of our inventions created in America 

are extraordinary Œ from bold new technolo
-
gies, like the Internet, to thousands of small, 

incremental improvements in processes and 

products that, in aggregate, dramatically 

improve productivity. America also has an 

exceptional legal system (notwithstanding 

my many reservations about the class-action 
capital markets. The American people have 

a great work ethic, from farmers and factory 

workers to engineers and businessmen (even 

entrepreneurial population on earth. Amer
-ican ingenuity is alive and well.
I mention all this because we need to put 
our current problems Œ and they are real 

Œ into proper context. Our problems may 

be daunting, but they also are resolvable. 

As a nation, we have overcome far worse 





current challenges, we have begun to see 

clear signs of stability and growth returning 


Almost everything is better than it was a 

year or two ago.
It™s conceivable that we are at the begin
-ning of a self-sustaining recovery that could 

power through many of the negatives we™ve 
8been focusing on recently. Consumers are 
getting stronger, spending at levels similar to 
those two-and-a-half years ago, but, instead of 

spending more than their income, they now 

are saving 5% of their income. And consumer 

debt service costs, i.e., how much they spend 

of their income to service their debt, have 

returned to levels seen in the 1990s (due to 

debt repayment, charge-o˚s and debt forgive
-



Businesses, large and small, are getting 

stronger. Large companies have plenty of 

cash. Medium sized and small businesses are 
in better ˜nancial condition and are starting 
to borrow again. Global trade is growing Œ 




seems to have begun. Financial markets are 

wide open Œ and banks are lending more 


investing more than $2 trillion a year in 

capital expenditures and research and devel
-
opment. They have the ability to do more, 

and, at the end of the day, the growth in the 

economy ultimately is driven by increased 

capital investment.
The biggest negative that people point 
to is that home prices are continuing to 

decline, new home sales are at record lows 

and foreclosures are on the rise. Our data 

indicates that the rate of foreclosures will 

start to come down later this year. Approxi
-
mately 30% of the homes in America do 

not have mortgages Œ and of those that do, 

approximately 90% of mortgage-holding 

homeowners are paying their loans on time. 








million a year, and those people eventually 

will need housing. Additionally, the fact 

that fewer homes are being built means that 

supply and demand will come into balance 

sooner than it otherwise would have. That 

said, housing prices likely will continue to 

go down modestly because of the contin-
uous high levels of homes for sale. The ulti
-
mate recovery of the housing market and 

housing prices likely will follow job growth 

and a general recovery in the economy. 
Yes, America still is facing headwinds and 

uncertainties Œ including abnormal monetary 

policy and looming ˜scal de˜cits. And while 

we can™t really predict what the economy will 

do in the next year or two (though we think 

the world™s greatest economy will regain its 

footing and grow over the ensuing decade. 
But we must take serious action to ensure our 
success in the decades ahead 






 is high, for America to thrive after that, 
 it soon must confront some of the serious 








e˚orts to develop an immigration policy 
and a real, sustainable energy policy; 

protect our environment; improve our 

education and health systems; rebuild 
 our infrastructure for the future; and ˜nd 
 solutions for our still-unbalanced trade 
 and capital ˝ows. 
The sooner we address these issues, the 
better Œ America does not have a divine 

right to success, and it can™t rely on wishful 

thinking and its great heritage alone to 
get the country where it needs to go. But 

I remain, perhaps naively, optimistic. As 



always count on Americans to do the right 

thing Œ after they™ve tried everything else.ﬂ 
Will the Role of Banks Change in This New 
Environment?
Banks serve a critical function in society, 
but it often is di˛cult to describe that func-


Ghana with one of our daughters (yes, the 

same daughter who asked me what a ˜nan
-

out all the buildings and projects that had 
been started but never ˜nished. 
All the money that went into Ghana™s 
un˜nished buildings was needlessly wasted 

and, in fact, had damaged the citizens of 

the country. This sorry sight provided me 

with a concrete example of how to describe 

what banks actually should do. I explained 

to our daughter that had banks (or inves
-



made sure that before money was invested 

in a project or enterprise, it had good pros
-
pects of success: It would be built for good 
9reasons, it would be appropriately utilized, it 
would be properly constructed, it would be 
insured and, if something went wrong, the 

asset would be put to the best possible use 

afterward. At the microlevel of one building 

or one small business, it is easy to under
-stand what banks do. They lend or invest, 

having done their homework, to maximize 

the chance of success. Sometimes they are 

wrong, and unforeseen circumstances can 

derail that success, but if they do their job 

well, this lending improves the general 

health of an economy.
At the macrolevel, we talk about having lent, 
invested or raised approximately $1.6 trillion 

for companies, not-for-pro˜ts and individuals 

over the course of 2010. But at the human 

level, here™s some of what we did last year:



people. 


11 million people. 

small businesses. 



government entities, including states, 

municipalities, hospitals and universities.






to approximately 6,500 middle market 

companies. 


8,500 corporations.



lending, and sometimes we make mistakes. 

But I can assure you that this never is our 

140 countries around the world. To ensure 

that we do it right and comply with the 

laws of the land, we have risk committees, 

credit committees, underwriting committees, 

compliance and legal reviews, and more. 
Banks play a critical role in our economic 
system by properly allocating, underwriting 

and understanding risk as credit is given to 

various entities and by helping to manage, 

move and invest capital for clients. The 

key question is how will all the regulatory 

What will not change: Clients still will need 
 our services
From the point of view of the customer Œ 
always the best way to look at a business Œ 

the services we o˚er, which are not easy to 


markets, technology and trends will change, 

but we know companies and consumers still 

will need the ˜nancial services we provide.

branches, they still will need checking and 

savings accounts, mortgages, investments, 

and credit and debit cards.







branches, they still will need cash manage
-
ment services, loans and investment advice.

-nies are called upon by our bankers, they 

still will need cash management, loans, trade 

˜nance and investment advice. Some even 

may require derivatives or foreign exchange 

services to help manage their exposures.
Finally, when large companies work with our 
bankers, they will continue to need merger 

and acquisition or other ˜nancial advice 

and access to the global equity and debt 
markets. Given the increasing complexity of 

their business, they also will require deriva
-
tives to help manage various exposures, e.g., 

the changing prices of interest rates, foreign 

currencies and commodities.
In fact, the opportunities are large. A growing 
world still will need large-scale capital 

creation and bank lending and will increas-
ingly require ˜nancial services. Several factors 

underscore just how pressing these capital-
intensive needs will be in the future:


approximately $100 trillion over the next 

10 years across both emerging markets and 

developed nations, an 80% increase. 












wealth could grow by approximately $160 tril
-
lion over the next 10 years, a 100% increase.



by more than $30 trillion over the next 10 


10

to grow by approximately $50 trillion in 
nominal terms ($25 trillion in real 2010 



an approximately 80% increase. 


equipment (globally running at approxi
-
double over the next 10 years Œ our multi
-
national clients account for approximately 

50% of this.


demand requires strong, healthy ˜nancial 

institutions. This bodes well for JPMorgan 

Chase Œ we are in exactly the right place.
What will not change: Banks will continue to need 
to earn adequate market-demanded returns on 

capital
Like all businesses, banks must continue 
to earn adequate returns on capital Œ inves
-tors demand it. Some argue, however, that if 

regulation results in better capitalized banks 

and a more stable ˜nancial system, returns 

demanded on capital would be lower to re˝ect 

the lower risk involved. This probably is true 

but not likely to be materially signi˜cant. 
What will change: New regulation 
will a˜ect prod
-ucts and their pricing 
A likely outcome of the new regulations is 
that products and their pricing will change. 

Some products will go away, some will be 

redesigned and some will be repriced. Last year, we spoke about how we would 
adjust our products and services for the new 

credit card pricing rules and new overdraft 

rules. So I will not repeat them here. In a 

later section, I will talk about how we will 

adjust to the new restrictions on the pricing 
of debit cards.
are required under Basel III likely will a˚ect 

the pricing of many products and services. 
Two examples come to mind:
Current Basel III rules require banks to hold more capital and maintain more liquidity to 
support the revolving credit they provide to 

both middle market and large institutions. In 

some cases, the liquidity rules alone require 

us to hold 100% of highly liquid assets to 
support a revolver. For example, to support a 

$100 million revolver, we would be required 

to own $100 million of highly liquid securi-


this would increase our incremental cost on 

a three-year revolver by approximately 60 

basis points a year. That leaves us with three 



make the loan. In the real world, the likely 

outcome is that some borrowers will have 

less or no access to credit, some borrowers 

will pay a lot more for credit, some would 

pay only a little bit more and some highly 

rated companies might ˜nd it cheaper to 

provide liquidity on their own, i.e., hold 

more excess cash on their balance sheet 

as opposed to relying on banks for credit 

liquidity backup. 
Certain products may disappear completely 
because they simply are too expensive to 






on certain securitizations will be so high 
for banks that either these transactions no 

longer will be done or they will migrate to 

other credit intermediaries (think hedge 

I will have more to say on regulation in the 

fourth section of this letter.
What we don™t know (and we have a healthy fear 
of unintended consequences)
Around the world and all at once, policy
-makers and regulators are making countless 

changes, from guidelines around market-

making, derivatives rules, capital and liquidity 

standards, and more. Many of the rules have 

yet to be de˜ned in detail, and it is likely 

that they will not be applied evenly around 

the world. The combined impact of so much 

change Œ so much unknown about the inter
-play among all these factors and an uneven 
11global playing ˜eld Œ potentially is large. 
These unpredictable outcomes and unin-tended consequences could a˚ect far more 

than products and pricing. For example, if a 

business cannot sell certain products or if the 

cost of selling them is so high that it cannot 

be adequately recouped, that business risks 

losing all of its clients. A simple analogy: If a 

restaurant that sells burgers can™t sell french 

fries, it risks losing all of its customers.
Like it or not, we will adjust to the impact 
of new regulation on ˜nancial products and 
pricing. But we will remain vigilant about 

the changes that could threaten or under
-mine entire businesses. Three of our main 

concerns are: First, and most important, we want to ensure 
that our clients are not negatively a˚ected in 

a material way and that our ability to prop
-
erly serve them is not unduly compromised. 
Second, we need to be cautious about the 
creation of non-banks or new shadow banks. 

This could happen if the cumulative e˚ect of 

all the regulations not only hampers banks 
from conducting their business but restricts 
them so much that the business slowly and 

inevitably moves to non-banks. 
And, third, we need to ensure that American 
banks are not signi˜cantly disadvantaged 

relative to their global counterparts. The 

cumulative e˚ect of higher capital standards, 

too restrictive market-making and deriva
-
tives rules, price control and arbitrary bank 

taxes could signi˜cantly impede our ability 
to compete over the long run. 



to occur Œ nor do we believe that it was or is 

the intent of the lawmakers or regulators Œ 

but it bears paying close attention.
Although we tend to focus on the downside 
of unintended consequences, we should 

recognize that there may be some positive 

consequences. For example, large changes 

in business regulations and dynamics often 

lead to new businesses, innovations and new 

products. Also, our ability to compete may 

be hampered in some instances but actu-
ally helped in others. For example, the cost 

and complexity of all the recent regulations, 

ironically, could create greater barriers for 

new entrants and new competitors. 
12
compelling growth strategies for his or her 
respective business (see their letters on 
the ˜rm, the opportunities to grow organi
-
cally are huge. And we intend to pursue 

them aggressively Œ every day, every quarter 

and every year by building new branches; 

launching new products and tools and intro
-
ducing new technology; and relentlessly 

hiring and developing good people.

organically can be challenging to execute, 

but it is critical Œ and the potential payo˚ is 

enormous. Organic growth also will continue 

to fuel cross line-of-business opportunities. 

For example, when Retail Financial Services 

opens a branch, it provides Card Services 

with the opportunity to o˚er more credit 
cards. And when Commercial Banking 

develops a new client relationship, these 

clients often require Investment Banking 

services. These are just two examples Œ there 

are many more. 






 to highlight a few speci˜c initiatives Œ each 

of which could add $500 million or more 
 to pro˜ts over the next ˜ve to ten years. 

These include:

Business Banking™s growth in the heritage 







will have added more than 1,500 bankers in 






building into this branch network the same 

kind of middle market banking and small 

business banking that we have established 

in other markets across the country. 


In our commodities business, we now have 

a full array of physical trading and ˜nan
-
cial products and services to support our 
3,000 clients who trade in these markets 


completely integrated and are running at 
full capacity, pro˜ts of this business will 

grow even more strongly. (And this should 





-


new branches a year to more than 200 in 

2011 and probably more than that in subse-
quent years. This aggressive build-out is a 

coordinated e˚ort between our real estate 

teams; our technology and operations 

teams; and our management, development 

and training sta˚. New branches typically 

break even by the end of the second year, 

and, when fully established, which takes 

several more years, each branch ultimately 

should earn more than $1 million in 
pro˜ts a year. Yes, we are concerned about 

technology reducing the need for physical 

branches, but all our research shows that 

we still will need branches to serve our 

ATMs has skyrocketed, branch tra˛c 

essentially has remained steady. Over time, 

branches may become smaller, but we still 

think they will remain essential.




2 million customers who use our branches 

are fairly a˙uent and need investment 

services tailored to the high-net-worth 


it seems to be working well. Therefore, we 

intend to open approximately 150 Private 

Client Services locations over the next few 

years to better support our a˙uent clients. 

At these o˛ces, dedicated bankers will 

work with customers and provide them 

with investment products that are tailored 

to their needs.


wholesale businesses, including our Global 

described in the next section. 
 II. BIG OPPORTUNITIES: HOW WE WILL GROW IN 
   
U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL MARKETS 
13Our Resolute Commitment to Expanding 
Our International Wholesale Businesses 
One of the greatest opportunities before us 
is to grow our wholesale businesses globally. 

This opportunity exists not just in developed 

markets but also in developing, emerging 


The reasons are simple: As the world grows, 

our clients generally grow even faster, as do 

trade volumes, capital, cross-border investing 

and global wealth. 


global investment, with accompanying 

growth in credit and capital needs, will grow 

by two times or some $13 trillion over the 

next 20 years in real terms Œ a multiple of 

what we saw in the early 1980s. Global invest
-
ment will amount to $24 trillion in 2030 

compared with $11 trillion in recent years. 

Developing economies are embarking on 

one of the biggest building booms in history. 

Rapid urbanization is increasing demand 

for new roads and other public infrastruc
-
ture. Companies are building new plants and 


in fact, warns of potential capital and credit 

shortages as this exponential growth occurs. 
Banks will play a vital role in ˜nancing these 
investments and in connecting savers and 

borrowers around the world. Much of this 

capital and investing will be cross-border and 

will be done by the very institutions that our 

bank already serves, i.e., multinational corpo
-
rations, large investors, sovereign wealth 

funds and others. 
Rest assured, we are going about this e˚ort 



false notions that it is easy or risk free. And 
you cannot have stop-and-start strategies. 

Countries will want to know you are there 

for the long run Œ you cannot be a fair-

weather friend! 
International expansion is a long, tough 

requires lengthy lead times, and di˚erences 
in cultures and laws present many chal
-
lenges. By necessity, we end up bearing 

additional sovereign and political risk. But 

the e˚ort clearly is worth it: The opportuni
-
ties are great, and the risk can be managed. 




We essentially are following our customers 
around the world
Our wholesale bankers around the world do 
business with essentially most of the global 
Fortune 2000 plus some 400 of large sover
-eign wealth funds and public or quasi-public 

entities (these include governments, central 

banks, government pension plans and 

As these entities expand globally Œ adding coun
-tries and locations to where these organizations 

do business Œ we essentially grow with them. 







need to be where they are going to need us. 
We will grow by adding bankers, branches 
 and products 
The overwhelming majority of our worldwide 
expansion will come through organic growth Œ 

adding bankers, branches and products. 
 Some examples of our recent e˚orts include:


January 1, 2010, and, by the end of 2012, 

we expect to grow to 300 bankers covering 

more than 3,000 clients globally.







to enhance the ˜rm™s presence by adding 

bankers and increasing our client coverage. 

Five years ago, we covered approximately 

200 clients in those countries, and, today, 














of coverage in many other countries, too.











to our existing three (Shanghai, Tianjin and 


-sion with more branch openings planned 

for 2011. Our expanded footprint enhances 

our ability to serve both local companies 

and foreign multinationals as they grow 

their businesses in China. In addition to the 

domestic renminbi capabilities, J.P. Morgan is 

at the forefront of the internationalization of 

the renminbi, a product that more and more 

clients are demanding for cross-border trade.



branches in Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, 

China, Great Britain, Japan, the Nether
-




nearly 20 more to be added by 2013.
14This build-out of our additional locations 
results in a huge network e˚ect. For 
example, Chinese capital is moving into 

Brazil Œ and we already are on the ground in 


-bilities in Africa, we also are improving our 







looking at investing in Africa.
Alongside these expansion e˚orts, we are 
adding many products. For example:







local credit Œ by establishing capital lines for 

subsidiaries of multinational companies and 

providing credit to large local companies. 

-ticated supply chain ˜nance products 

(we recently helped ˜nance Caterpillar™s 

Of course, we also are building the proper 

systems, legal teams and operational capabili
-ties to support this bigger network. 
In addition to these organic e˚orts, we are 
on the lookout for smaller acquisitions that 

can help us accelerate our strategy. For 

example, our acquisition of the world-class 

Brazilian hedge fund Gávea Investimentos, 

-cally improves our ability to manage money 

both for local investors and for those around 

the world seeking to invest in Brazil and 

emerging markets. 
We see global growth opportunities for decades 
to come
In the business community and across the media, we have seen a tremendous focus on 

the emerging markets in advanced stages 

of development; speci˜cally, Brazil, Russia, 

India and China. But this opportunity also 
is large in countries like Turkey, Indonesia, 

Malaysia and many others Œ in fact, some 

parts of the world are on the brink of mean
-
ingful development. 
A quick look at sub-Saharan Africa provides 
a bit of perspective on the opportunities 




activity in the region is expected to grow 




20 years, from $800 billion to $2 trillion, as its 

Many nations in sub-Saharan Africa are 

adopting better and stronger governance, 

and they are forti˜ed by great natural and 

other resources, which will bene˜t their 

future prosperity.

multinational clients are doing business in 
sub-Saharan Africa and expect their number 

and footprint to grow steadily over the next 


21 of the 49 sub-Saharan nations, we are on 

the ground only in South Africa and Nigeria. 



several other African countries over the next 

couple of decades. The investments we make 

over the years to enter sub-Saharan Africa 

will not materially a˚ect pro˜ts in the short 
run but will produce a real payo˚ in decades 



to be reaped by future generations.
While Developing Consumer and 
Commercial Banking Operations Abroad Is 

an Option, It Is Not a Strategic Imperative
Over the long term, expanding our consumer 
and commercial banking footprint outside 


This aspiration is a strategic option Œ not 

a necessity. Some businesses need to be 

competitive internationally to be successful 

Œ think investment banking, commercial 

aircraft and mobile device manufacturers. 

But some businesses do not need to be Œ 



in retail and commercial banking and never 

take them internationally. Therefore, this 

aspiration is a strategic option, not a stra
-
tegic imperative, to be carried out only if and 

when it makes sense.
International acquisitions are riskier than 

-tunities for cost savings, terms for investing 
vary from country to country, there is higher 

legal and cultural risk, and execution is more 

di˛cult. Therefore, we will acquire these 

businesses internationally only if we can do 

it right, which means the price needs to be 

right, we need to have an adequate margin 

for error and we have to have the ability to 

execute properly.
15 The WaMu Acquisition: A Bit Worse than Expected but Clearly Still Worth It 
With more than two years™ perspective, I™d like to 
take a look back at how we did with the acquisition 

of Washington Mutual Š particularly relative to how 

we thought the deal would play out at the time of 

the acquisition.
WaMu™s ongoing operating earnings were 
 approximately what we expected Š but not in 
 
the way we expected
When we completed the WaMu acquisition on 
September 25, 2008, we thought it was ˜nancially 

compelling and immediately accretive to earn
-
ings, though clearly not without risk. We acquired 

WaMu™s 2,200 branches, 5,000 ATMs and 12.6 

million checking accounts, as well as savings, 

mortgage and credit card accounts. At that time, 

we estimated that it would add $3 billion to 2010 

net income. 
  The chart above shows what we said would happen 

over time vs. what actually happened. These 

numbers do not include one-time gains or losses, 

which I describe in the following paragraph. In 

the numbers above, the mortgage origination and 

servicing business did better than expected, mostly 

due to higher volumes and spreads. And the retail 

business did signi˜cantly worse, mostly due to 

curtailing fees on nonsu˛cient funds and over
-drafts. We expect the business to perform in the 

future as we originally thought. 
One-time, after-tax gains and losses are a 
 
negative and still could get slightly worse
 When we acquired WaMu, we acquired approxi
-
mately $240 billion of mortgage and credit card 

loans, which we immediately wrote down by $30 

billion. We knew when we did the transaction that 

the depth and severity of the recession in the 

housing market could drive mortgage losses even 

higher than our estimates (which, at the time, we 

thought were conservative). We thought losses 

could wind up being $10 billion worse (pretax), and 

we have experienced about half of that. We antici
-
pate some further potential downside, depending 

on the health of the U.S. economy, as well as some 

other one-time gains and losses relating to litiga
-
tion and other unresolved matters. The heritage 

WaMu credit card business essentially is liquidating 

with approximately the results we expected.
The WaMu acquisition has created future 
 opportunities that we would not have had if 
 
we did not do this acquisition Š and these are 

better than we anticipated 
The expansion of our Middle Market Commercial 
Banking business, within the WaMu footprint, 

which we are managing and growing carefully, can 

deliver more than $500 million in pretax pro˜ts 

annually, though this could take more than ˜ve 

years. And the Commercial Term Lending Busi
-
ness, which essentially is making mortgage loans 

on multifamily houses Š a business we previously 

didn™t know very well Š also will be able to grow 

its earnings to more than $500 million a year Š 

signi˜cantly better than we expected. We think the 

Small Business Banking opportunity is even larger 

than we thought and could be as much as $1 billion 

pretax annually over the long term.
One-Time Items (After-Tax) 
 







Operating Earnings, 
Excluding One-Time Items 
 (in billions) Initial  Expectations
 Actual
2009 $2.4 $2.82010 3.0 2.72011 3.4 3.1 * 1516 III.
 THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE: 
   
HOW WE WILL CONTINUE TO IMPROVE IT 


Œ and this is true of every aspect of our busi
-





account we maintain, every ˜nancing we 
do and any investing we do is to serve our 

clients. Our job is to consistently strive to do 

a better job for all our clients Œ and to do it 

faster, smarter and better. 
Doing a great job for our clients requires 
us to be discerning about who our clients 
are and clear about what doing a good job 
means. In our business in particular, client 

-nesses, we often have to turn away clients. 

Sometimes we, by necessity, are put in the 

uncomfortable position of advising or even 

requiring our clients to do things they don™t 

want to do, such as: restructuring or selling 

assets or making payments to avoid penal
-
ties. Careful client selection leads to quality 

clients. And in conjunction with conservative 

accounting, it leads to a high-quality busi
-
ness. J.P. Morgan, Jr., said it best when he 


class business in a ˜rst-class way.ﬂ
Below are some of the ways we will strive to 
continue delivering on that promise.
Doing a Better Job Serving Complex Global 
Corporate Clients


our complex global corporate clients. But we 
want to do an even better job Œ a great job 

Œ under all circumstances. So we are redou
-
bling our e˚orts by:



building robust systems to put key infor
-mation about our corporate client relation-
ships at our ˜ngertips Œ for example, all the 

services we provide them, which markets 

they are in and what their needs are. 


information and coordination enable us to 

do a better Œ and, often, more cost-e˚ective 

Œ job for the client. As a global ˜nancial 

institution, we may have 30 to 40 bankers 

from our o˛ces globally calling on a large 

corporate client. That™s because we provide 

such a broad set of products and services in 

multiple locations around the world: M&A 

and advisory services; asset management; 

sales and trading or pension plans; manage-
ment of cash ˝ows, foreign exchange and 

interest rate exposure; and more.



-atically expanding the depth and breadth 

of our international coverage of the large, 

multinational companies that we cover 


granular, detailed review, name by name 

and subsidiary by subsidiary, of the multi
-
national companies we support for the 

purpose of developing a game plan Œ from 

the ground up Œ for how we will build out 

our coverage going forward.









clients, we want to make available the best 

that JPMorgan Chase has to o˚er every
-







the full force and power of the company are 

behind them and their goals, that we will be 

there in good times and bad, and that our 

advice is uncon˝icted and trustworthy.




business works only if it works for the 

client, not just for JPMorgan Chase. Cross-

selling, for example, is good only when it 

bene˜ts the client.17Doing a Better Job Serving Consumers and 
Small Business Customers
All businesses claim to focus on better 
serving their clients. Most can show you the 

service metrics by which they judge them
-


than that by taking a step back and looking 

at the customer experience holistically Œ from 

every angle, including:


as ours, often we ˜nd ourselves adding 

more features and complexity without 

going back to see how it looks from the 




the example set by companies like Apple, 

which always aims to make its products 

and services as simple and intuitive as 

possible for the customer. 
 For example, at one point, our customers 
were getting noti˜cations from us in the 

mail and by phone. Then we innovated 

the process by reaching out to them in 

real time through text alerts whenever 

their account balance fell below a speci˜ed 
could not respond to these alerts. Then 

we developed Chase Instant Action 

AlertsSM, our two-way text alerts that allow 
customers to send a text back to us in order 

to transfer money between accounts and 

help avoid overdraft fees. This product has 


more than 10 million mobile customers, 

and we are adding over 500,000 new 

mobile banking customers each month. 

selling is to better and more completely 
serve customers™ needs and help them 

realize their goals in ways that save them 

time, money and aggravation. Properly 

done, what we sell our customers should be 

good for them because we are listening to 

them, ˜guring out their needs, and trying 

to meet those needs in the most e˛cient 
and e˚ective manner possible. Getting 

customers into the right accounts, the right 

credit cards, online bill payment and alert 

systems allows us to give our customers 

more and be more e˛cient. But selling and 
cross-selling must work for the customer Œ 

improperly done, these e˚orts are annoy
-
ances and, at worst, do customers a great 
disservice. To do this right, we need to 

educate our salespeople and constantly try 
to align our incentive systems to support 

doing what is right for the customer. 



consumer businesses, we™ve created 

Consumer Practice groups, managed by 




to review all our policies, products and 

procedures Œ ranging from pricing and fee 

decisions to clear disclosure and trans-
parency of terms associated with each 

product Œ and to ensure we are treating our 

customers fairly and are delivering great 

service. These Consumer Practice teams 

have the power both to right a wrong for 

any of our customers and to help change 

processes going forward.




possible and not get caught up in legalese in 

our communications. (Of course, we need to 

provide the proper legal disclosures, many 






-ments require changes to our systems, both 

those that are visible to our customers and 
those that are helpful to our employees 




improved customer convenience on 

everyday needs such as completing the 

rollout of over 10,000 Deposit Friendly 

ATMs, which take cash and check deposits 

without deposit slips or envelopes. Addi
-
tionally, the system our bankers use has 

been enhanced to quickly access a custom
-
er™s account history, including any issues 

reported by customers or actions taken on 

the customer™s behalf by branch employees 

in the last 90 days. 



redoubling our e˚orts to learn from 

customer complaints and employee 

ideas. Customer complaints often can be 

gifts: They frequently tell us how we can 

improve our products and services. As for 

employees, they often have great ideas on 

what can be done better but usually aren™t 


customers and employees to improve prod
-
ucts and services across the ˜rm. 18Innovating for Our Customers 
Financial services have been highly innovative 
over the past 20 years. 
On the consumer side, we have seen ATMs 
and debit cards lead the way to online bill 
paying and other Internet-enabled technolo
-gies. We also are particularly proud of our 
most recent consumer innovations, including: 

Chase BlueprintSM, a ˜exible payment tool 
that allows our card customers to better manage expenses on their own terms; 
InkSM from Chase for business card users; 
and Chase SapphireSM and Palladium
 for 
the a˚uent market. 

Chase QuickDeposit
SM iPhone banking 
application allows customers to deposit 
checks simply by taking a picture from 
their iPhones. This app was the winner of 
nine Best of 2010 smartphone awards. In 
2010, 336,000 customers made deposits 
via QuickDeposit, and 46,000 business 
customers made deposits with our Classic QuickDeposit scanner. We also recently 
have added the QuickDeposit app to 
Android phones.






customers to make payments in a variety 
of ways, including Quick Pay for electronic 
person-to-person payments and traditional 
online bill payments. In 2010, 16.3 million 
customers made 445 million payments 
using chase.com.





clients, we launched an iPad application 
that lets customers see, in one place, their 
credit card, checking and investment 
accounts. Soon these clients will be able 
 to buy and sell securities online through 
this application.In wholesale banking, innovation has been 
equally apparent over time: 






move it with the ˜ick of a ˛nger to where it 
can be most productive. 






Research iPad app, which gives clients 
reports and analysis from more than 1,000 
analysts on economic indicators, markets, 
companies and asset classes around the 
world. Unlike other research apps of its 
kind, users will be able to access content 
o˚ine and receive instant alerts when new 
content they pre-select becomes available.


money quickly and often simultaneously in 
markets around the world.



quickly and cost-e˝ectively, large expo
-sures like interest rates, foreign exchange, 
commodity prices, credit exposures, etc. 

-ally instantaneously on markets around the 
world, at a cost of pennies or less a share.
Acknowledging and Fixing Mistakes
Unfortunately, we make mistakes. They 
range from innocuous errors to some egre-gious ones. They range from paperwork 
errors to systems failures to rude service. 
Sometimes we make loans we shouldn™t 
make, and sometimes we don™t make loans 
that we should. Some of these are individual 
mistakes, and some are more systemic. 
There always are reasons for these mistakes. 
Sometimes they are readily understand
-able. Other times, they leave you shaking 
your head. But we never should make these 
mistakes deliberately or with venal intent. 
Some mistakes are made out of a simple 
misjudgment. And, unfortunately, and very 
infrequently Œ sometimes someone in our company knowingly does something wrong. 
Of course, such activity would never, ever be 
condoned or permitted by senior manage
-ment. And when it does happen, we take 
immediate and ˛rm action. We know that when we make mistakes, we 
should hold ourselves accountable, and we 
should rectify them. 19

dealing with our mistakes:
Senior management should actively be on the 
lookout for problems
At all times, senior management must be 
vigilant about errors made across the ˜rm 
Œ we ask lots of questions, read customer 

complaints, and make sure our own people 

are allowed to question our products and 

services. Generally, we all know how we 

would want to be treated, and management 

should strive to treat our customers this way.
This particularly applies to long-standing practices. Just because something always has 

been done a certain way does not mean that 

it is still right. We need to acknowledge mistakes to ourselves 



Acknowledging an error, however, isn™t 






desire to keep up with the competition, did 

we start doing things with which we were 


There is one error, in particular, from our 
recent past that I would like to highlight: the 

mistakes we made in servicing mortgages 



a great history of honoring our military and 
veterans, and the errors we made on these 

loans, including foreclosures, were a painful 


regret this, we have apologized to our mili
-
tary customers and their families, and we 

have tried to rectify these mistakes as best 

we can. I want to reiterate that apology here 

and now. 


for the military and veteran community that 

includes many initiatives, from recruiting 

veterans into our ˜rm, with our corporate 

partners, to providing enhanced products 

and services for the military and their fami
-
lies. As a company, we aim to serve members 

of our armed services with the respect and 
special bene˜ts they deserve because we 

recognize the sacri˜ce and hardships they 

bear to protect our nation and our freedoms.
We should acknowledge our mistakes to our 
customers
Customers know that any company can 



company denies it. If we make a mistake 
with a customer, we should acknowledge it 

and take the proper remedial action.
When we ˚nd mistakes, we should fully disclose 
them to those who should know




them, as appropriate, to our regulators and to 
our Board of Directors as appropriate. 
We also take appropriate and timely action with 
those involved
This can mean ˜xing an error-prone 
system, retraining our people, or modi
-

this sometimes means ˜ring an individual 

or replacing management, but only if such 

action is warranted due to bad behavior or 

real incompetence.
20 IV.
 GLOBAL FINANCIAL REFORM: HOW THE KEY ASPECTS 
   
WILL AFFECT OUR BUSINESSES AND OUR COUNTRY 
The crisis of the last few years was 
 proof enough that many aspects of our 
 
˜nancial system needed to be ˜xed and 
reformed to minimize the chance of such 
 
a crisis reoccurring.
As I have discussed in prior letters, a multi
-tude of issues caused, or contributed to, this 

crisis: structural issues, such as a critical lack 

of liquidity in some of our country™s money 

market funds and in short-term ˜nancing 

markets; high leverage, which was omni
-
present in the system; unregulated shadow 
banking; poor mortgage underwriting; huge 

trade imbalances; and ine˚ective regula
-
tion of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, among 

other factors.
A great number of the regulatory changes 
adopted in 2010 were essential. Foremost 

among them were higher capital and 

liquidity standards and the establishment of 
a Financial Stability Oversight Council. This 

body has the critical mandate of monitoring 

the ˜nancial system in its entirety, elimi
-
nating gaps and ensuring that all ˜nancial 

˜rms are properly regulated while antici-
pating future problems. Resolution Authority 

also was necessary in order to give regulators 

both the legal authority and the capability 

to manage and unwind large ˜nancial ˜rms, 

just as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo
-



testing and well-managed clearinghouses for 

standard derivatives. 
In addition, we have been very supportive 
of certain changes in compensation rules. 

In fact, long before they were mandated, 

JPMorgan Chase already had instituted most 

of these compensation practices. One particu
-larly good new rule, a practice we had estab
-
lished but only for our Operating Committee, 

was the ability to clawback compensation 

from senior executives when appropriate. 




to cover more senior managers at our ˜rm. 

before the crisis, many senior executives who 

ultimately were responsible for the failure 

of their companies would have had to return 

much of their ill-gotten gains.




Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 

however, we do have some concerns. The 

extensive reforms introduced by this legisla
-
tion represent the most wide-ranging changes 







services since the 1930s, and we likely will 

have to live with these reforms for the next 50 

years. Dodd-Frank is a signi˜cant and thor
-ough rewrite of the rules that our industry 

must follow. The impact of this legislation will 

be signi˜cant, and the outcomes Œ both posi
-
tive and negative Œ will be a function of how 

the reforms are implemented.
It is of vital importance that Dodd-Frank 
implementation Œ along with the ˜naliza-
tion of Basel Committee capital standards 
and other regulatory changes a˚ecting our 

industry Œ is thoughtful and proportionate 
and takes into account the cumulative e˚ect 

of the major changes that already have taken 

place since the crisis began. This is the only 

way we can hope to avoid unintended nega
-
tive consequences, nurture a stable economic 

recovery, build a strong ˜nancial system and 

create a fair playing ˜eld for all.
Our System Was on the Edge of Chaos, 
and Governments and Regulators Deserve 

Enormous Credit for Preventing the Collapse
I have long been on record giving huge 



-ments around the world for the drastic, bold 
actions they took to stop this rapidly moving 

crisis from getting considerably worse. A 

great number of the actions that the Treasury 

and the Federal Reserve took, both directly 

and indirectly, helped sustain numerous 

institutions and probably prevented many 
21from failure and bankruptcy. These actions 
were done to save the economy and to 


everything in our power to stop a crisis 
from happening again, we should recognize 

two critical points. Markets can be rational 

or irrational, and fear could freeze markets 

again. And when there are severe problems, 

only the government, in some form, has the 

wherewithal, power and liquidity to be the 

backstop of last resort.
E˜ectively changing our exceedingly complex 
global economic system requires great care


as any crisis can, but it quickly careened into 
a global catastrophe. Most observers pinpoint 

the key moment as Lehman Brothers™ failure 

in September 2008. But one of the things 
that made Lehman™s failure so bad was that 

it came after the failure of Bear Stearns, 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, among others. 

It was the cumulative e˚ect of the collapse 

of all these institutions, many of which were 



Lehman™s failure occurred at another time, 

and been an isolated event, its failure would 

not likely have been so devastating. 
Complex systems Œ and our global economic 
system surely is one Œ often oscillate within 
relatively normal con˜nes. Our complex 

economic system regularly has produced -sionally a devastating one like the Great 

Depression or the recent economic crisis. 

The factors that occasionally and devastat
-
ingly derail a system at any point in time 

may have contributed only because the 

table already had been set; at other times, 

the same factor would have had no e˚ect at 

all. This phenomenon shows up in complex 

systems throughout nature.
Scientists dealing with complex systems try 
to isolate the impact of changing one input 

while holding all other elements constant. 

They know that if they change everything at 

once, it may be impossible to identify cause 

and e˚ect.As we try to remake our complex economic 
system, we need to be cautious and respectful 

of what the cumulative e˚ect will be of 

making multiple changes at the same time. 
A Great Deal Already Has Been Done to 
Improve the System Š by Regulators and 

Governments Š and by the Market Itself 
As all the rules and regulations of Dodd-Frank and Basel III are being completed, a 

tremendous amount already has been done 

to strengthen the ˜nancial system. Capital and liquidity standards already have been 
strengthened 
Before the crisis, we believe the thresholds for 
capital and liquidity requirements were far 

too low. This was one of the key underlying 

causes of the crisis (and the reason JPMorgan 

Chase always held far more capital than was 







These standards already have been increased 


the stress test in February of 2009, it raised 

the minimum Tier 1 Common Capital 

requirement from 2% to 4%. The recent 

stress test raised the capital requirement 
to 5% and imposed a more stringent test: 
Banks now must demonstrate that they can 

maintain a capital level of 5% throughout a 

highly stressed environment. The new Basel 

III requirements e˚ectively will raise the 5% 

to 10%. (I will talk more about capital stan-Substantial improvements already have been 
made in the standards for residential and 

commercial mortgages and secured ˚nancing, 

among others 
The marketplace, investors, banks, regulators 
and rating agencies already have signi˜
-
cantly upgraded the standards by which 

many products and institutions operate. For 

example:







comply with standards that existed many 

years ago, before the worst of the past 

decade™s excesses. These mortgages include 

sensible features such as loan-to-value ratios 

mostly below 80%, true income veri˜cation 

and more conservative home-value appraisals.


disclose more information, hold higher-

rated paper and maintain much more 

liquidity as a safeguard against potential 

runs. This was a critical systemic ˝aw 

around the Lehman collapse.
22





more information. Some of the information 
provided is quite useful, such as disclosures 

on funding, liquidity of assets and greater 




















Œ in which large investors, institutions and 

˜nancial ˜rms use short-term, collateral
-
ized borrowing to ˜nance some of their 

investments Œ now require more conser
-





exotic securities.
Shadow banking essentially is gone
People mean very di˚erent things when they 

system into two pieces: The ˜rst piece is 

one most observers barely knew existed. It 

consisted of largely o˚-balance sheet instru-
ments like structured investment vehicles 
on-balance sheet instruments that were fairly 

well-known, such as asset-backed commercial 

paper, money market funds and repos.
The o˚-balance sheet vehicles, like SIVs, 
essentially are gone. The on-balance sheet 

instruments like money market funds, repos 

and asset-backed commercial paper are 

smaller in size, less leveraged, more conser
-vatively managed and far more transparent.
There are more regulators with proper Resolution 
Authority and comprehensive oversight
Today, a greater number of regulatory bodies 
are providing an unprecedented level of 

oversight. New resolution laws and living 

wills will give regulators even more tools to 

use in handling a future crisis.
Banks™ trading businesses are far more conservative


eliminated proprietary trading. In addition, 

exotic products are smaller in size and more 

transparent, and trading books require far 

more capital and liquidity to support.Standardized derivatives already are moving to 
clearinghouses
It is a common misperception that deriva
-tives were not regulated. They actually were: 






other bank regulators. It also is a misconcep
-
tion that derivatives pricing lacked trans
-
parency; accurate market data on the vast 

majority of all derivatives were readily avail
-
able and easy to access. 
Nonetheless, we agree it is a good thing 
that standardized derivatives are moving to 

clearinghouses. This will help standardize 

contracts, simplify operational procedures, 

improve regulatory transparency and reduce 

aggregate counterparty risk. I will discuss 

this issue in more detail later.
Boards, management and regulators are more 
attentive to risk
At the corporate board and management levels, risk management now involves much 

greater attention to detail. Risk reviews are 
increasingly thorough, risk disclosures are 

deeper and any executive responsible for risk 

taking is the recipient of extensive oversight.
Collectively, these substantial changes have 
materially reduced risk to each individual 

˜nancial institution and to the system as a 

need to be codi˜ed, they may go a long way 

in creating the very strong kind of ˜nancial 

system we all want. 
We Need to Get the Rest of It Right Š 
Based on Facts and Analysis, Not Anger or 

Specious Arguments
In their book, 
This Time Is Di˜erent: Eight 
Centuries of Financial Folly
, economists 






eight large economic crises over the past 800 
years. These crises generally emanated from 

trade imbalances, foreign exchange issues 

and real estate speculation. Included among 

their observations was the fact that when the 

crisis also involved the collapse of the ˜nan
-
cial system Œ in four of the eight crises they 

studied Œ recovery took longer than expected 








But we should not assume that this historic 

pattern is preordained or predictive. It also 

seems likely that bad policy decisions made 

inadvertently and without forethought Œ 

during and after these crises Œ may very well 

have increased the level, length and severity of 

the economic stress attributed to these crises.
23For the implementation of Dodd-Frank to 
be e˚ective, it must recognize the improve
-ments that already have been made and 

focus on resolving what remains to be done. 

Dodd-Frank creates several additional regula
-
tors and sets forth more than 400 rules and 

regulations that need to be implemented 

by various regulatory bodies. In addition to 








governments and new capital and liquidity 

requirements emanating from Basel.

stability and growth of the system. And we 

know that our chances for a strong global 

recovery are maximized if we get the rest 



getting close Œ let™s not blow it. Moving 

forward, here are some important issues 
 
that need to be handled carefully. 
The new oversight board Š the Financial Stability 
Oversight Council Š needs to require coordination 

among all the regulators, both domestic and global
Ideally, America should have streamlined 
its regulatory system. Instead, our legisla
-
tors have created several additional regula
-
tors. This makes domestic and international 

coordination both more complex and even 

more critical. In fact, many of the regulators 

are setting up departments to deal with the 
other regulatory departments (if that is not 
the very de˜nition of bureaucracy, I don™t 
It makes it all the more important that the 

new oversight board, the Financial Stability 


coordination among the regulators™ activi
-


moving in di˚erent directions in their regu
-
lation of like products. The FSOC should nip 

this problem in the bud. In addition to domestic coordination, the 
FSOC must ensure that the rules and regu-
lations coming from Basel and the G20 are 

implemented in a consistent and coordinated 

fashion. The FSOC also must be vigilant in 

identifying imbalances within the system that 

generate excessive risk Œ and be ready to take 

rapid action to ˜x such imbalances. Finally, it 

needs to be aware of the development of new 

shadow banks and be prepared to intervene 

when they pose potential risks to the system.
Regulators should build a system that creates 
continuous improvement
There are implicit di˛culties in trying 
need to do is put a system in place that can respond in real time to changes in the 

marketplace, create a culture that promotes 

continuous improvement, and design e˚ec
-
tive tools that operate as both gas pedals and 

brakes. This is what will enable them to do a 

better job managing the economy. 


tools and uses: The ability of regulators to 

change mortgage loan-to-value ratios up or 

down if they thought the housing market 

was becoming too frothy; change capital 

requirements immediately on speci˜c loans, 

investments or securities when speci˜c asset 

classes showed signs of becoming problem
-
atic; and dial up or down certain liquidity 
requirements and repo haircuts when 
excesses were taking place.
The Volcker Rule needs to leave ample room 
 for market-making Š the lifeblood of our capital 
markets
The Volcker Rule has various components. 



component eliminating pure proprietary trading; and the component limiting banks 
from investing substantial amounts of their 

own capital into hedge funds. 
Our concern largely is with a third aspect regarding capital and market-making. It™s 

critical that the rules regarding market-

making allow properly priced risk to be 
taken so we can serve clients and maintain 

liquidity. The recently proposed higher 

capital and liquidity standards for market-

making operations Œ the new Basel II and 
Basel III capital rules Œ approximately triple 

the amount of regulatory capital for trading 

portfolios inclusive of market-making and 

hedging activities. For the most part, these 

capital rules protect against excessive risk 




are needed, under the Volcker Rule or other
-


these rules need to be carefully constructed 
(e.g., they should distinguish between liquid 

and illiquid securities, allow for hedging 

either on a speci˜c-name or portfolio basis, 
24

-sively buy and sell securities in size, inves
-tors are able to get the best possible prices 
for their securities.
Derivatives regulation must allow for true end-
user exemptions and for transparency rules that 

don™t restrict liquidity
As I already stated, we completely agree with 
the creation of clearinghouses for standard 

derivatives. That said, clearinghouses do not 

eliminate risk; they standardize and concen
-
trate it. Therefore, it is essential that these 

clearinghouses be strong, operate under 

sound rules and have well-capitalized member 




-houses to become the next systemic problem.
It™s also important to maintain a category 
of non-standardized derivatives contracts. 

These contracts are not ˜t for a clearing
-
house because the clearinghouse cannot 
adequately value, margin or settle them. 


contracts are important to very sophisticated 

institutions (of course, such contracts should 

be fully disclosed to the regulators and prop-Additionally, client margin requirements 

need to be clari˜ed. If clients are required 
to post margin, either their liquidity will be 

reduced or these clients will migrate their 
derivatives trades to overseas markets that 

do not have such posting requirements. 
Regulators also must seek to strike the right 
balance between the need for transparency 

and the need to protect investors™ interests. 

To the extent that transparency rules reduce 

liquidity and widen spreads, they actually 

can damage the very investors the regula
-
tors are trying to help. If market-makers 

are required to quickly disclose the price at 

which they are buying a large amount of 

securities or a small amount of very illiquid 

securities, they will necessarily be more 

conservative about the amount of risk they 

take. As a result, they will bid for less and 

price the risk higher since the whole world 

will know their position.Finally, there is a truly misguided element 

of Dodd-Frank regarding derivatives. This 

˜rms like ours to move credit, equity and 

commodity derivatives outside the bank. 

This requirement necessitates our creating 
a separately capitalized subsidiary and 
requiring our clients to establish new legal 

contracts with this new subsidiary. This is 

an operational nightmare (which we can 


It runs completely counter to recent e˚orts 

by regulators to reduce banks™ exposure to 

counterparty default. This provision creates a 

lot of costs and no


makes our system riskier Œ not safer.
We need to create a Consumer Financial Protec
-tion Bureau that is e˜ective for both consumers 
and banksIt has been widely reported that we were 
against the creation of a Consumer Financial 



were against the creation of a standalone 

CFPB, operating separately and apart from 

whatever regulatory agency already had 




that a CFPB should have been housed within 

the banking regulators and with proper 
authority within that regulator. This would 

have avoided the overlap, confusion and 

bureaucracy created by competing agencies.



were many good reasons that led to the 

creation of the CFPB and believe that if 

the CFPB does its job well, the agency will 

bene˜t American consumers and the system. 

Strong regulatory standards, adequate 

review of new products and transparency to 
consumers all are good things. Indeed, had 

there been stronger standards in the mort-
gage markets, one huge cause of the recent 

crisis might have been avoided. Other coun
-
tries with stricter limits on mortgages, such 

as higher loan-to-value ratios, didn™t experi
-
ence a mortgage crisis comparable with ours. 

As recently as ˜ve years ago, most Americans 





one of the best in the world Œ boy, was that 
not work well for any market participant Œ 

lender or borrower Œ and a careful rewriting 

of the rules would bene˜t all. 
25The Durbin Amendment was passed with 
 no fact-˜nding, analysis or debate, had 
 nothing to do with the crisis and potentially 
 will harm consumers
The Durbin Amendment, which regulates 
debit interchange fees, was added belatedly 
to the Dodd-Frank Act. It is an example of a 
policy that has little basis in fact or analysis. 
When policymakers undertake such a signi˜
-cant rewrite of the rules, there often is a 
tendency to adopt ideas with surface appeal. In this case, some potentially signi˜cant, 
unintended consequences exist, particularly 
for consumers.
Most analysis of the costs and bene˜ts 
of debit cards shows that the debit card 
provides more total value (after fairly 
looking at all the costs and bene˜ts) to 
retailers than cash, checks or many other 
forms of payment. In addition, merchants 
negotiate fees (if they agree to accept 
debit cards at all Œ 20% don™t), and some 
pay as low as 35 basis points while other 
merchants pay considerably more.
The law that passed, and has been inter
-preted by the Fed in its proposed rule, 
permits a bank to charge only its ﬁincre
-mentalﬂ interchange cost. This cost does not 
include the direct costs of issuing debit cards, 
such as the printing and mailing of the cards, 
operational and call center support to service the cards, and the cost of fraud. Also absent 
from the analysis are the costs of ATMs and 
branches, which are part of the ˜xed costs of 
servicing checking accounts and debit cards. 
Any business that is allowed to charge only 
enough to recover its products™ variable costs 
would soon be in bankruptcy.
The harm will fall largely on consumers; banks will be forced to lose money on debit 
interchange transactions and likely will 
compensate by increasing fees in some way 
for deposit customers. While the primary 
e˚ect on consumers will be higher prices for 
banking services, there also will be secondary 
e˚ects. Some customers may opt out of the 
banking system (even though the cost of 
being unbanked is much higher).* The law 
will disproportionately a˚ect lower income 
consumers. Some analysts estimate that as 
many as 5% of U.S. families currently in 
the mainstream banking system will leave 
and become unbanked. The Durbin Amend
-ment undoes a generation of hard work to 
decrease the cost and increase the e˛ciencies of banking for ordinary Americans and to 
reduce the ranks of the unbanked.
Finally, it™s a terrible mistake and also bad 
policy for the government to get involved 
in price ˜xing and regulating business-to-business contracts. The Durbin Amendment 
is price ˜xing at its worst. It is arbitrary and 
discriminatory Œ it stipulates that only large banks (those with assets of $10 billion or more) will be a˚ected by its price ˜xing. But 
while the law purports to exempt smaller 
banks, credit unions and prepaid govern
-ment bene˜t cards, the reality is that not one 
of these groups will be immune to the nega
-tive implications of this rule. 
The debit card has been a tremendous boon to both merchants and consumers. 
Before policymakers undertake these types 
of actions that pose such profound e˚ects, 
they need to fully understand the conse
-quences of their actions. The Durbin Amend
-ment was passed in the middle of the night 
with limited fact-˜nding, little analysis and 
minimal debate, and I think it appropriate 
that we return to fact-˜nding and analysis in 
the full light of day.
Resolution Authority needs to be properly 
designedSimply put, Resolution Authority essentially 
provides a bankruptcy process for big banks 
that is controlled and minimizes damage 
to the economy. We made a mistake when 
we called this aspect of ˜nancial reform 
ﬁResolution Authority,ﬂ which sounds to 
the general public very much like a bailout. 
Perhaps a better name for it would have 
been ﬁMinimally Damaging Bankruptcy 
For Big Dumb Banksﬂ (MDBFBDB). Banks 
entering this process should do so with 
the understanding and certainty that the 
equity will be wiped out, the clawbacks on 
compensation will be fully invoked, and the 
company will be dismembered and eventu
-ally sold or liquidated.* There is an interesting 
Associated Press 
article 
written on the cost of 
being unbanked
.26

authority to ˜re the management and Board of Directors and wipe out equity and unse-
cured debt Œ in a way that does not damage 

the economy. Controlled failure of large 

˜nancial institutions should work the same 

way. It is complex because these companies 

are big and global and require international 
-controlled failure can be achieved.
In the process, the role of preferred equity 
and unsecured debt needs to be clari˜ed. 
This may require corresponding accounting 

changes. My preference would be, at the 

point of failure, to convert preferred equity 

and unsecured debt to pure, new common 




bankrupt, it had $26 billion of equity and 

$128 billion of unsecured debt. If, on the day 

of bankruptcy, the regulators had converted 

that unsecured debt to equity, Lehman would 

have been massively overcapitalized and 

possibly able to secure funding to continue 
its operations and meet its obligations. The 

process to sell or liquidate the company 

would have been far more orderly. And the 

e˚ect on the global economy would have 

been less damaging. 
Payouts received on liquidation of the assets 
of the company would have been paid ˜rst 



holders Œ this essentially is what happens 
in bankruptcy (and would eliminate the 


It is unlikely that this orderly liquidation 

would have resulted in losses exceeding the 


would not have cost the FDIC any money. 




to the FDIC, we believe that the loss should 

be charged back to the banks, not to the 

taxpayers, just as the FDIC does today.
Banks should pay for the failure of banks (as the 
FDIC is structured today), which is far better than 

arbitrary, punitive or excessive taxes
Systemically important ˜nancial institutions 







of resolving their fellow large institutions™ fail
-ures. This is not a new idea Œ banks already 

bear this responsibility (through the cost of 






some folks may believe, the FDIC is a govern
-

not pay for it Œ 100% of the cost for the FDIC 






share alone of the FDIC™s costs relating to the 





Charging banks additional costs Œ propor-tionally and fairly allocated Œ for main
-
taining the banking system seems to be both 
proper and just. In our opinion, this is far 

more preferable than trying to create addi-
tional taxes to SIFIs, as some countries are 

discussing. Banks should pay for the failure 

of banks but not through arbitrary, punitive 

or excessive taxes.
Critical accounting and capital rules need to be 
redesigned to ensure better transparency and 

less pro-cyclicality
If properly designed, countercyclical 
accounting and capital rules can serve as stabi
-lizers in a turbulent economy. I will mention 

two issues that underscore the need for this 

approach, although there are many more.
First, loan loss reserving currently is highly 







point, so are loan loss reserves and vice versa. 
There are many ways to ˜x this intelligently 

while adhering to rational accounting rules.
Second, capital rules even under Basel III 
require less capital in benign markets than in 

turbulent times. So at precisely the time when 

things can only get worse, we require the least 

amount of capital. This also is easy to ˜x. 
And one additional observation from outside 
our industry: Federal, state and local govern
-
ments need to change their accounting stan
-re˝ect obligations made today that don™t come 

due for many years. This one accounting issue 

allows governments to take on commitments 

today but not recognize them on ˜nancial 

statements as obligations or liabilities.
27We need to beware of backward-looking models 
and ﬁgroup thinkﬂ

limitations of backward-looking models. 
And we need to be even more conscious 

and suspect of what will happen when all 
market participants essentially are using the 




playing ˜eld Œ and fair application of rules 

to all participants, including common and 

consistent ways of calculating risk-weighted 

assets Œ we need to guard against the risk of 

models and capital-allocation standards, this 

potentially plants the seeds of the next crisis. 

That is essentially what happened with mort-
gages in this last crisis.
The mortgage business needs to be radically 
overhauled


from the ground up. I™ve already spoken 
about why we need stronger standards, 

including loan-to-value ratios and income 

veri˜cation, but we also need servicing 

contracts that are more consistent from both 
the consumer and investor standpoints. 

In addition, it would be bene˜cial to have 

foreclosure processes and standards that are 

common and consistent across all 50 states. 
Most critically, it is incumbent upon us 
to resolve the status of the government-

sponsored entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie 





believe in these rules regarding securitiza
-
tions (requiring mortgage originators to hold 


said, the devil will be in the details, but we 

generally are supportive. Additionally, the 

government recently rolled out three models 

of how government-sponsored enterprises 








these models could be designed to work for 

consumers and investors and e˚ectively could 

create a strong and stable mortgage ˜nance 

system. Alternatively, any one could be 

designed in a way that could lead to disaster.
The key is for policymakers and market 

participants to get all elements right. If 
they succeed, then mortgage products will 

be much improved for both consumers 


were to be better clari˜ed and more limited, 

there would be lower risk of damage to the 

economy, and the taxpayers would not be left 

footing the bill for failure.
Getting to the Right Capital and Liquidity 
Levels 
Of all the changes being made in the ˜nan
-cial system, we believe it is most impor
-tant to have higher, but proper, capital and 

liquidity requirements for banks. But these 

levels cannot be arbitrary or political Œ they 

must be rooted in logic and designed for 

the fundamental purpose of best preparing 
banks to be able to handle extremely stressed 

environments Œ a purpose that always has 

been central to JPMorgan Chase™s capital 



if the levels of capital are set too high, they 

can both impede economic growth and push 
more of what we refer to as banking into the 

hands of non-banks.
JPMorgan Chase had adequate capital both to deal 
with the government™s new stress test, and, more 

important, to deal with the real stress test of the 

past few years Š we don™t see the need for more
Stress tests Œ both forward- and backward-







Common Capital provided plenty of capital. 

in February of 2009, it required banks to have 
4% Tier 1 Common Capital. As shown in 

the chart on the next page, JPMorgan Chase 









of equity, we were able to acquire both Bear 

powering through the crisis. Throughout the 

entire period, our capital ratio barely dropped.  
The Basel III rules e˚ectively would require 
JPMorgan Chase to hold approximately 50% 

more capital than the already high level of 

capital held during the crisis. The call under 


Capital essentially is equivalent to the 10% 

standard or more under Basel I. This is 
28because the regulators tightened up the de˜ni-tions for all types of capital Œ rightly so Œ and 
increased standards for the calculation of 

risk-weighted assets (mostly for trading assets, 

Basel III™s higher capital requirements 

provide more than enough capacity to with
-



we should be required to hold even more 

capital. The chart below presents a forward-

looking stress test on JPMorgan Chase™s 


what our Basel I and Basel III Tier 1 Capital 

ratios would be. These are estimates, but 

they give you a sense of the strength of our 
capital generation, even under stress. A great 

deal of detailed analysis goes into these tests, 

including the assumptions that home prices 
would drop another 15% from peak levels 

and unemployment would go to 12%. This 

stress test is a more severe case than in the 

Federal Reserve™s stress test. 
years Œ one of the worst environments of all 

time Œ JPMorgan Chase did ˜ne. In forward-

looking stress tests, we are in excellent shape. 
The whole purpose of capital is to be able to protect the ˜rm under conditions of extreme 




the capital standards should be increased. Basel I Tier 1 Common Ratio
Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio
20132012201120102013201220112013201220112010201320122011Tier 1 
Common 

Fed 

Guideline: 
5%
Analyst ProjectionsﬁStressedﬂ Analyst ProjectionsAnalyst ProjectionsﬁStressedﬂ Analyst ProjectionsBasel I Tier 1 Common RatioBasel III Tier 1 Common Ratio9.
8%
10.7
%11.4%
12.2%~10%~11%
~12%7%~8%
~10%~11%
~8%
~9%~10%2019
Basel III
Tier 1 

Common 

Guideline: 
7%










































As shown in the chart below, JPMorgan Chase maintained plenty of capital throughout the ˚nancial crisis.
 JPMorgan Chase Quarterly Capital Levels 
29

we clearly needed during the crisis. And 
multiple other improvements have been 

not see the need for 
even more capital, and 

we believe the facts prove it.
Banks did not bene˚t from any kind of implicit 
guarantee
The argument that systemically important ˜nancial institutions should hold more 
capital than small banks is predicated on 
two false notions: ˜rst, that SIFIs borrow 

money more cheaply because of an implicit 

guarantee (and that the cost of higher capital second, that all SIFIs needed to be bailed out 

because they were too big to fail.
The notion that SIFIs had an implied guarantee is completely disproved by the 

chart below. It shows the borrowing costs 

of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Œ compa
-
nies with a true implied guarantee from the 
federal government Œ vs. the borrowing costs 

of AA-rated banks and industrial companies. 

As you see, the borrowing costs of these 

banks were similar to those of AA-rated 

industrials, neither of which bene˜ted from 

an implicit government guarantee of any 

kind. Surprisingly, even 
after
 the govern
-
ment said that it was not going to allow any 

additional banks to fail, the high borrowing 

costs for banks continued.

failed during this crisis, that is not true for 

all banks. Many banks around the world, 

including JPMorgan Chase, were ports of 

stability in the storm and proved to be great 

stabilizers at the height of the crisis in late 

2008 and early 2009. Remember, also, that 

some of the banks identi˜ed as too big to fail, 

in reality, were too big to fail 
at the time after 

so much cumulative damage. At that time, the 

too-big-to-fail moniker was extended to large 

industrial companies, money market funds, 

just about any company that issued commer
-cial paper, insurance companies and others. 
We should be very thoughtful about demanding 
that global SIFIs hold more capital
Presumably, risk-weighted assets re˝ect the 
riskiness of the company. If there are to be 

extra capital charges for SIFIs and global 

SIFIs, such decisions should be based upon 

logic and proof that SIFIs and global SIFIs 
pose a greater risk to the system. Some SIFIs 
posed a great risk while other SIFIs did not. 

strictly a function of size. Also, if Resolution 

Authority is meant to take care of the too-

big-to-fail problem, then what purpose does 

further raising capital levels serve other than 











AA-Rated U.S. Banks™ and Other Industries™ Spreads above Treasury:
Crisis/Post-crisis (7/2007Œ9/2010)









30
SIFIs creates issues: Does this status make 


-tions in the future as some people decide the regulators going to make it clear what 
a company could do to give up the SIFI or 

global SIFI status and reduce your capital 
ways for speci˜c SIFIs to reduce their capital 


up to the judgment of various bureaucra
-
become a political process as you travel to 




In short, we at JPMorgan Chase see the value 

of higher capital and liquidity and the wisdom 

of resolution plans and living wills that make 










that banks should continue to pay for bank 








increasingly higher capital ratios.
The Need for Large Global Banks and 
America™s Competitive Position
Companies come in various sizes, shapes 
and forms. There are many reasons for 

this. At JPMorgan Chase, we bene˜t from 

huge economies of scale in our businesses. 

The same goes for most large enterprises. 
-ally come from technology, including data 

centers, networks and software; the bene˜ts 

of global branding; the ability to make huge 

investments; and the true diversi˜cation of 

risks. The bene˜ciaries of these economies of 

scale ultimately are the consumers who these 
companies serve. 
Moreover, in many ways, the size of our 
company is directly related to the size of the 

clients we serve globally. Our size supports 

the level of resources needed to service these 

large, multinational clients Œ and enables us to 

take on the necessary risk to support them.
For some of our wholesale clients, we are 

asked to make bridge loans or underwrite 


sell trillions of dollars of securities a day and 

move some $10 trillion of cash around the 





a client, it may include revolving credit, trade 

˜nance, trading lines, intraday lines and 

derivatives lines Œ often in multiple locations 

globally Œ and often in the billions. 


enabled us to improve branches in many 

ways: adding salespeople; retro˜tting and 

upgrading each location; adding improved 

products, services and systems; and saving 



this allowed us to o˚er our clients better 

products and services. 
In a free market economy, companies 
grow over time because they are winning 

customers. These companies win customers 

and grow market share because they Œ rela
-
tive to the competition Œ are doing a better 

of providing customers with what they want.
Consolidation does not cause crises, and the U.S. 
banking system is far less consolidated than most 

other countries 

approximately 20,000 banks 30 years ago to 



will continue as banks seek out economies of scale and competitive advantage. That 

does not mean there won™t be start-ups and 

successful community banks. It just means 

that, in general, consolidation will continue, 

as it has in many industries. 

than most other countries (see chart on next 
In any case, the degree of industry consolida
-
tion has not, in and of itself, been a driving 

force behind the ˜nancial crisis. In fact, some 

countries that were far more consolidated 

(Canada, Australia, Brazil, China and Japan, 
crisis so there is not compelling evidence to 
back up the notion that consolidation was a 

major cause of the problem.31 Notes: Deposit market share data 
are related to the operations/
transactions conducted by banks 
domiciled in each respective 
country, including branches and 
subsidiaries of foreign banks
 1  Deposit market share is based 
on the top eight banks in France, 
top seven banks in Sweden, top 
four banks in the Netherlands, top 
three banks in Germany and top 
two banks in Switzerland
 Sources: J.P. Morgan and J.P. Morgan 
Cazenove research estimates; com
-pany ˜lings and reports; and Central 
Bank and trade association data
Top 20 Countries by Gross Domestic Product
  Deposit Market Share for Top 10 Banks 
 in Each Respective Country 
 % Share
Canada
 97 %Mexico
 93Turkey
 92South Korea
 91Australia
 90France
1 88Brazil
 85 Spain 84Sweden
1 84Argentina
 76The Netherlands1 76China 
 67Japan 62India 61Russia 61Italy 53United Kingdom
 48United States
 41Switzerland
1 35Germany
1 26We should be concerned about American banks 
losing global market share Œ because they are
Two facts support this contention:
U.S. investment banking services are increas
-ingly being provided by foreign banks.
 While 
it is gratifying to see J.P. Morgan go from 
nowhere to become #1 in U.S. investment 
banking, it is notable how much U.S. invest
-ment banking has changed. Twenty years 
ago, U.S. investment banks dominated U.S. 
investment banking Œ occupying all of the 
top 10 positions. A decade ago, they held 
nine of the top 10. Last year, U.S. investment 
banks held only ˜ve Œ half Œ of the top 10 slots 
(see chart below).
U.S. banks also have lost signi˜cant position
. In 1989, U.S. banks represented 44 of the 
50 largest ˜nancial ˜rms in the world (by 
market capitalization). More than 20 years 
later, American banks now number only six 
of the top 50. While much of this change 
has to do with the growth of the rest of the world, it is striking both how fast and how 
dramatic the change has been.
It™s important that we make sure that American 
banks stay competitive
We believe that it is good for America Œ the 
world™s leading global economy Œ to have 
leading global banks. Being involved in 
the capital ˚ows between corporations and 
investors across the globe is a critical func
-tion. Large, sophisticated institutions will be 
required to manage these ˚ows and to inter-mediate or invest directly if necessary. Global 
markets will require sophisticated analysis, 
tools and execution. 
The impact of ceding this role to banks based outside the United States could be detrimental to the U.S. economy and to U.S. 
Market-Leading Franchises Š Investment Bank
U.S. Equity, Equity-Related and Debt
Rank 1990  2000  20101  Merrill Lynch
  Merrill Lynch
 J.P. Morgan
2  Goldman Sachs  Salomon Smith Barney 
 Barclays Capital
3  Salomon Brothers 
 Morgan Stanley
  Bank of America Merrill Lynch
4  First Boston
  Credit Suisse
  Deutsche Bank5  Morgan Stanley 
 Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs6  Kidder Peabody
  Lehman Brothers
 Citi7  Bear Stearns Chase
  Royal Bank of Scotland
8  Shearson Lehman
  J.P. Morgan
  UBS9 Prudential-Bache Capital
  Bank of America  Morgan Stanley
10  Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette
  Deutsche Bank Credit Suisse
Source: Thomson Reuters. Data as of 12/31/10. Rankings based on dollar volume run on March 14, 2011
 Note: Light gray font designates ˜rms that no longer exist; orange font indicates non-U.S.-based ˜rms
32


has had the deepest and best capital markets 
on the planet. These markets match investors 

with companies, large and small, who inno
-
vate, invest and grow around the world. They 

have helped build some of the best compa
-
nies in the world and the best economy on 

the planet. America™s ˜nancial institutions 

have been a critical part of this success. 




clearly required, we should not throw out the 

baby with the bath water. 
Some of the laws that were written and some 
of the possible interpretations of rules to 
come could create competitive disadvantages 

for American banks. They are adding up, and 

they bear watching. They are:


to use tax-deductible preferred stock as 



that they will not accept the Volcker Rule 

(despite Paul Volcker™s testimony that inter
-national regulators would adopt it once 




unlikely to be adopted universally. Certain 

countries are licking their chops at the 

compete in derivatives. Remember, the 

clients will go to the place that is the 
cheapest and most e˚ective for them.


new, that constrain American banks™ ability 

from making acquisitions both here and 
abroad. Some of these constraints will not 
apply to foreign banks.

arbitrary taxes that could disadvantage 

large banks Œ even the FDIC has skewed its 

deposit insurance to increase the charge to 

bigger banks.

world may not have their large banks 

maintain additional capital requirements in 


allows for a much less conservative calcula
-
tion on risk-weighted assets.




the Treasury would want to leave American 


leadership to be forceful and engaged to 

ensure a fair outcome.
We all have a vested interest in getting this right
The government took great action to stop the 

crisis from getting worse. Lawmakers and 

regulators have and will take much action 

to ˜x what clearly was a broken system. As 

quickly as we reasonably can, we should 

˜nish the remaining rules and requirements 
and create the certainty that will help the 
system to heal faster. Nothing is more impor
-tant than getting our economy growing and 

getting Americans back to work. And the 

regulators should remember that they always 

have the right to change things again Œ if and 

when appropriate.
33 V.
 CONCLUSION
 You can rest assured that your management 
team and Board of Directors are completely 
focused on all the opportunities, issues and 

risks that we have ahead of us. 
Regarding the regulatory changes, we have 

sta˚ed with lawyers; accountants; credit 
o˛cers; compliance, systems and opera
-
tions specialists; and bankers and traders Œ 

analyzing and preparing for each of the new 

regulatory requirements. All in all, thousands 

of our people around the world are partially 

or fully engaged in these endeavors.


rules and requirements, both in letter and 

spirit, and we will make sure that everything 

we do, wherever we can, is done with the 



to make numerous changes in our products, 

services and prices, we will strive to do so in 

the most customer-friendly way possible.
As we look toward the future, we see incred
-ible opportunities for your company, and our 

teams around the world are fully engaged in 

pursuing them. In every way we can, we continue to 

actively support the economic recovery. 

everyone does his or her part. And we 

intend to do ours by being a responsible 

corporate citizen and helping our commu-
nities across the globe. You can read 
 more about our extensive e˚orts on 
 jpmorganchase.com/forward. 
Our people have done an extraordinary job, 
often under di˛cult circumstances. I hope 

you are as proud of them as I am.
Jamie Dimon
 
April 4, 2011
34Fortunately, it isn™t in our nature to 
take success for granted Œ it™s our 
˜rm™s culture to continually earn and 

re-earn client trust.2010 Results: Near Record 
 Performance
The Investment Bank generated solid 
returns. Net income was $6.6 billion 

on revenue of $26 billion, just short 

of 2009™s record levels. ROE was 

17% on $40 billion of capital Œ our 
through-the-cycle target.J.P. Morgan™s debt markets leader
-ship, combined with investor con˜
-dence and low interest rates, enabled 

corporates to prepare their balance 

sheets for long-term growth. Clients 

made good progress, although the 

Gulf oil spill, sovereign debt concerns 

and regulatory uncertainty challenged 

markets. As well, the mid-year ﬁ˚ash 

crashﬂ was a healthy reminder that 

technology can outpace control.
Customers, spearheading the 
recovery, selected J.P. Morgan for 

numerous public and private capital 

raises. We were privileged to work 

for many prominent clients like 

General Motors, the Agricultural 

Bank of China and Novartis.
In late 2009, I rejoined the Invest
-
ment Bank after 10 years in Asset 

Management. Obviously, there were 

many changes during that decade 

as world GDP nearly doubled and 

the digital revolution impacted 

consumers, businesses and countries 

on a global scale.
I™d like to highlight three changes 
that are particularly meaningful 
for our business. First, technology 

ceased to be ﬁsupportﬂ for trading 

and banking; it now is part of  
J.P. Morgan™s client o˛ering. Second, 

countries like China, long tagged 

ﬁemerging,ﬂ today are powerful and 

important; this antique label no 
longer applies. Third, J.P. Morgan 

became both a universal bank and a 

leading investment bank, with ˜nan
-
cial strength, capabilities and a client 

base unparalleled in global ˜nance. 
The Investment Bank now serves 
approximately 16,000 investor 

clients and 5,000 issuer clients. No 

doubt the ˜nancial crisis helped us 

gain share Œ we were the safe harbor 

and, subsequently, as the recovery 

took hold, a port of opportunity. 
We expanded our market-making 

footprint, adding local capabilities 

in important countries like Russia 

and Brazil. China™s approval of our 

securities joint venture means a 

larger in-country presence and the 
ability to participate in domestic 
underwriting. Three of the top ˜ve 

exchanges for IPOs last year were in 

China, accounting for nearly 40% of 

dollar volume.
An emphasis on liquidity, derivative 
book repositioning and trading disci-
pline led to our best-ever revenue-

to-risk relationship. There were no 

trading-day losses in three of the last 

four quarters.
The Sempra acquisition added  skill and capacity, particularly in oil 

and base metals, and 1,000 clients. 
 
J.P. Morgan now serves client needs 

across all important physical and 

˜nancial commodity markets.
The formation of our Markets 
 Strategies group, with senior manage
-ment and advanced quantitative and 

programming talent, brought focus 

and momentum to electronic trading 

and related initiatives.
Investment Bankﬁ J.P. Morgan™s ˜nancial  
strength, client base 
 and capabilities are  
unparalleled – 
we are positioned to 

serve clients as they 

expand globally.ﬂ
35























































-















2010 Highlights and Accomplishments
Finally, we made great strides 
toward delivering the highest 

proportion of risk-adjusted earn-
ings to shareholders per dollar of 
compensation in our industry.
2011 Priorities: Serving Clients 
 with Complex Global Needs
While it™s gratifying that we main
-tained a #1 ranking in investment 

banking fees last year, I™m mindful 

that league tables do not capture all 
that we do nor what is necessarily 

most important to clients. It is the 

quality of our work and our long-

term focus that serves clients, and 

therefore us, well.
We must prepare for Global 
Markets revenue to stabilize Œ 

although growth is available in some 

businesses, notably commodities 

and equities. We are o˛ to a good 

start; client ˚ows and deal pipelines 

are strong compared with this time 

last year. Financing activity and 

M&A should accelerate as clients 
gain con˜dence and deploy balance 

sheet cash. We™re positioned well for 

an expected comeback in cross-border, 

transformative acquisitions.
Our greatest opportunity, and 
challenge, is to deliver the ˜rm to 

customers with increasingly complex 

global needs. We™ve added experi
-
enced people to provide management 

leadership and 360-degree supervi-
sion to reinforce client coverage. 

The Global Corporate Bank initiative 

helps us to better serve existing and 

emerging multinational clients. 
The multiyear technology program 
 is well under way, building our 
 
electronic capabilities, consolidating 

platforms and increasing e˝ciency. 

There is no ˜nish line in technology 

Œ it drives e˝ciency, innovation 
 
and competitiveness.
An inclusive environment is the key 
to winning the war for talent. The 

best people from the broadest pool 
mean more points of view, better 


















-














 Institutional 
Investor™s
 









-




(a) Internal reporting
(b) Dealogic
(c) SDC Thomson
client solutions and ˜nancial perfor
-mance for shareholders.
Exceptional employees, the right tools, 
good momentum and impressive 

leadership in our related businesses 
(Asset Management, Commercial 

Banking, Retail Financial Services 

and Treasury & Securities Services) 

Œ it all adds up to a wealth of 

inner resources that we mine with 

increasing e˛ectiveness for clients 

and, ultimately, for our shareholders. 
I™m grateful to be a part of this outstanding organization; there has 

never been a more exciting time to be 

an investment banker at J.P. Morgan.
Jes Staley
 CEO, Investment Bank 
J.P. Morgan-Led N
on-U.S. 
 Exchange IPO Volu
me (in billions)03
6
912
15036912$ 15
$14
$420092010
242%
36states, our customers use our 5,300 
bank branches and 16,000 ATMs, one 
of the largest networks nationwide. 

Our branches also are used to serve 

customers from other lines of busi-
ness, including the Commercial Bank 

and the Private Bank.
Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other 
Consumer Lending services almost 
9 million mortgages and provides 

new loans through loan o˝cers and 
correspondents. Our customers also 

can obtain auto ˜nancing through 
more than 16,000 auto dealerships 
and student loans at more than 2,200 
schools and universities nationwide.
While I remain con˜dent of the value of Chase™s retail franchise, 

I know we can do better than the 

results we™ve achieved over the past 

two years. Fortunately, the core 

strength of our franchise gives RFS 

a foundation upon which to grow in 

2011 and beyond: We will continue to 

expand both our branch network and 

our o˛erings within those branches, 

as our mortgage portfolio works its 

way back toward pro˜tability.
JPMorgan Chase possesses one of 

the most attractive retail ˜nancial 

services franchises in America, with 

ample opportunities to grow even 

after one of the most challenging 

periods in our history. We have 

the scale, technology and people to 

continue to deliver great service for 

our customers and terri˜c value to 

our shareholders.
Retail Financial Services (RFS) 
serves consumers and small busi
-nesses through a range of venues: 

in-person service at bank branches, 

auto dealerships and school ˜nancial 

aid o˝ces; telephone banking; auto
-
mated teller machines; and online 

and mobile banking. The strength 

of RFS derives from its scope across 

two businesses: Retail Banking, and 

Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other 

Consumer Lending.
Our 29,000 branch salespeople assist 
30 million RFS customers with 
checking and savings accounts, credit 

and debit cards, mortgages, home 

equity and business loans, auto loans 

and investment advice. Across 23 
2010 Results: Solid Retail Earnings 
O˜set by Ongoing Mortgage Losses
For 2010, RFS generated net income 
of $2.5 billion on revenue of $31.8 

billion and a return on equity of 9%. 
These results, while an improvement 

from 2009, are well below what these 

businesses are capable of producing 
and what you should expect from us.
Our core banking and lending busi-nesses performed well and saw solid 

organic growth throughout the year, 

but these results were partially o˛set 

by elevated credit losses and mort
-
gage repurchase expenses. As well, 

we made additions to our loan loss 

reserves for the home loan portfolios, 

much of which are in run-o˛ mode.
For comparison™s sake, if we exclude 
our Home Lending portfolios and 

repurchase expenses, RFS earnings 

were $6.7 billion, with ROE of 37%. 

This represents the earnings power 

of RFS, as losses in the mortgage 

portfolios will decrease signi˜cantly 

in size and, eventually, contribute 

positively to earnings.
Retail Financial Services
ﬁI would not trade 
 our franchise for 
 
anyone else™s.ﬂ
37Home Lending Our Home Lending business continues to go through a turbulent 
period. Loans acquired from Wash
-
ington Mutual, as well as some of the 

Chase-originated loans, continued to 

perform terribly. While losses and 

delinquencies decreased from their 
peaks, they still are at unacceptably 

high levels.
Our Home Lending portfolios lost 
$4.2 billion in 2010 (including repur-chase expenses). At the same time, 

we bene˜ted from the re˜nancing 

boom, and net income in produc
-
tion (excluding repurchase losses) 

increased by 58%. We will need to 

continue managing these two very 

di˛erent issues for the next several 

years, as losses likely will remain high 

in the legacy portfolio while we focus 

on gaining pro˜table new business.
(Please see my accompanying 
 discussion of the mortgage business 

on page 38.)Retail Banking 
For 2010, Retail Banking reported net 

income of $3.6 billion, down 7% from 

the prior year. Net revenue was down 

2% to $17.6 billion, driven by lower 

deposit-related fees, largely o˛set by 

higher debit card income and a shift 

to wider-spread deposit products.
Adding 3 million new customers every year, our Retail Banking fran
-
chise continues its growth trajec
-
tory, with strong and increasing 

brand recognition across the country. 

Excluding acquisitions, our net 

income has grown at a compound 
annual growth rate of 9% since 
2005. To deliver that growth, we 

have maintained our long-standing 

focus on acquiring and deepening 

customer relationships and continu-
ally investing for the future.
In 2010, we opened 154 new 
branches and added 3,700 personal 

bankers, nearly 600 loan o˝cers and 

450 business bankers to better serve 

our customers. We opened 1.5 million 

net new checking accounts and 

increased our sales production per 

branch by 16%. Our cross-sell ratio, at 

nearly seven products per household, 

is one of the highest in the industry.
We are not just getting bigger but we 

are constantly working to serve our 

customers better Œ for example, in 

2010, innovation in mobile banking 

with convenient new smartphone 

applications. More than 17 million 

customers use our online services, 

representing a compound annual 
growth rate of more than 36% since 
2006. Finally, the personal touch for 

which Chase branches are renowned 

Œ thanks to our great employees, 

who constantly strive to provide 

better advice and service Œ remains a 

cornerstone of our business.
2011 Priorities: Growing Our Branch 
Business with Expanded O˜erings 

across Our Network
The results of the past year vali
-date the essential soundness of our 
approach to growing our business. 

Going forward, we intend to remain 

focused on our customers and our 

people, which have sustained us 

during these challenging times.
Continuing to focus on organic 
growth is our primary goal. 
We already have more to o˛er 

consumers and businesses than most 
of our competitors, not to mention 

the stability of JPMorgan Chase 

standing behind us.






























-




























-





















2010 Highlights and Accomplishments


























































-




-




38

























-








What mistakes did the ˜rm make in mortgages, and how can it avoid 

them in the future?






















































-A Q&A WITH CHARLIE SCHARF ON MORTGAGES






















-
































-























Should JPMorgan Chase still 
originate and service home loans, 

given all of the risks?






















-









-








































-




-



In 2011, we are continuing to add 
sales sta˛ in our branches to serve 

customers. As for the branches them
-
selves, we have had great success 

growing our nationwide footprint 

Œ the 1,000 branches built since 

2002 have added $150 million to our 

pretax pro˜ts as of 2010, a number 

expected to grow to more than $1 

billion by 2018. Over the next ˜ve 

years, we anticipate building another 

1,500-2,000 branches in our existing 

markets, generating an additional 

$1.5 billion to $2.0 billion in pretax 
income when seasoned.Across the business, we also are 
pursuing several growth initiatives 

with great potential for our bottom 

line. For a˙uent customers, we 
plan to open 50 new Chase Private 

Client locations in 2011, with corre
-
sponding investments in sta˛, tech
-
nology, products and customized 

service; we will have more than 

150 locations by the end of 2013, 

primarily in New York, Chicago 

and Los Angeles. We also are 

expanding our Business Banking 

segment, especially in the heritage 

WaMu footprint. In those markets 

alone, Business Banking lent $878 

million in 2010, up from almost 

zero a year earlier; our expansion 

could generate $1 billion in annual 

pretax income over time. Finally, 

we continue to advance our leader
-ship in developing new products 

and services for our customers, 

such as instant-issue debit cards, 

QuickDeposit
SM and Chase Instant 
Action Alerts
SM.The experiences of the past few years 

have shown beyond a doubt that we 

have an excellent franchise built on 

strong business fundamentals. It is a 

franchise that has weathered a signif
-
icant economic storm and is built to 
withstand future shocks. But more 

important, it is positioned to grow 

and to strengthen. I would not trade 

our franchise for anyone else™s. This 

is a great time to be part of Chase, 

and I look forward to what I believe 

are even better days to come.
Charlie Scharf
 CEO, Retail Financial Services
3839Given everything we™ve read 
about the health of the mortgage 
market, what is the current state 

of JPMorgan Chase™s mortgage 
portfolio?

































































































































































When does JPMorgan Chase have to 
foreclose on a homeowner?Simply put, we don™t want to foreclose on 
homes.





























































































-







































-









-



























So why does the ˜rm foreclose on a homeowner?






























































-














-

















































































































































































What steps has JPMorgan Chase 
taken to help troubled borrowers?








-















-
















































3940Chase™s recently introduced propri
-etary products and features are 
targeted at vital, pro˜table segments 

of the consumer market. Chase 
 Freedom
SM, which targets savvy 
rewards-oriented consumers; 
 Chase SapphireSM, targeting the 
a˙uent market; Ink
SM from Chase, 
aimed at business card users; Chase 
 BlueprintSM, which helps consumers 
take charge of their ˜nances; and 

our Ultimate Rewards
SM program 
all have shown encouraging early 

success, with customers using our 

products for more of their spending.
Even after several challenging 
years, I never have been more 

con˜dent about the outlook for 

Card Services. As we work to help 

customers manage (and not become 

overwhelmed by) their personal 

˜nances, Card Services enters 

2011 in a strong position as credit 

markets improve and as we strive 

to make our o˛erings ever more 

indispensable.
In 2010, Chase Card Services made 

strong progress in positioning 

its business for the future, as we 

gained customers and increased 

market share of consumer 

payments. As we enter 2011, more 

customers are using our products 

than at any time in history.
The strength of JPMorgan Chase 
gave Card Services the ability, 

during the worst three years in the 

credit card industry™s history, to 

make bold investments across its 

portfolio: innovative new products, 

such as our suite of resources for 

business card holders; a broader-

based rewards platform than any 

other card provider; and ground
-
breaking services that directly 
respond to consumer needs. These 

products and services enable us to 
build strong and enduring relation-
ships with Chase cardmembers, who 

not only see everyday value in our 

o˛erings but also depend on us to 
help them make progress toward 

their goals.
2010 Results: Sales and Market 
Share Up amid Product Growth
Card Services ended 2010 with 
improvements in several key areas 

across all customer segments. Net 

income was $2.1 billion compared 

with a net loss of $2.2 billion in 

2009. The improved results were 

driven by a lower provision for 

credit losses, partially o˛set by 

lower net revenue. Sales volume 

for 2010, excluding the Washington 

Mutual (WaMu) portfolio, was 

$302 billion Œ a record high and a 

measure that shows customers are 

using our products more frequently 

for their daily needs.
Beginning in 2008, which was the 
year the ˜nancial crisis began, we 

have consistently gained sales 

market share for Chase card 
 products. We have gained 234 

basis points of market share over 

those three years, which is 74 

basis points more than our closest 
ﬁAs we enter 2011, 
 more customers  are using our  
products than at  
any time in history.ﬂ
Card Services41































-
































2010 Highlights and Accomplishments
competitor. Chase™s card products 
are winning in the marketplace 

and are gaining share across key 

customer segments.
We continued to streamline our 
co-brand partnerships, from some 

200 in 2008 to approximately 80 

in 2010, focused exclusively on 

aligning Chase with some of the 

world™s best brands, such as Hyatt 

Hotels and Ritz-Carlton.Our credit line management 
strategy has helped improve credit 

loss trends, as we have closed inac
-
tive accounts, removing approxi
-
mately $50 billion of unused credit 

lines since 2008; lowered credit 

lines for high-risk customers; 

and reduced average credit lines 

for new accounts. We™ve changed 

our approach to risk assessment, 

looking at customers™ debt-to-

income and total bankcard debt, 
 as well as their FICO score. 
2011 Priorities: Bene˚ting from 
Customer Relationships as 

Consumer Markets Improve
Looking ahead, we continue to be 
concerned about elevated unem
-
ployment levels, an uncertain 

regulatory environment and the 

ever-present challenges of driving 

growth. However, our new products 

and services are providing plenty 

of reasons for our customers to 

use Chase for everyday spending, 

and we believe growth will come 

through delivering the best 

customer service in our industry. 

In light of this, I have rea˝rmed 

our 20% return on equity target on 

reduced equity of $13 billion.A key part of our growth strategy 
is launching premier products and 

rewards programs in partnership 

with brands known worldwide for 

best-in-class service and value to our 

joint customers.
To make every interaction an 
outstanding one, we™re looking at 

every policy, practice, communi
-
cation and conversation through 
the customers™ eyes. This customer 

˜lter is in place throughout our 

organization, from our Treating 

Customers Fairly principles; to our 

new Consumer Practices orga
-
nization, charged with ensuring 

that all our marketing promises 

are clear, simple and transparent; 

to customer treatment strategies 

focused on individual needs; to 

employee accountability for imme
-
diately raising issues that a˛ect the 

customer experience. 
Chase Card Services is excited 
about the momentum we are 

building. As evidenced by our sales 

share gains, the response from our 

customers to our new products and 

services has been terri˜c. Our busi
-
ness is well positioned to continue 

to gain pro˜table market share.
Gordon Smith CEO, Card Services























Sales Volume and Transactions Hit Record Levels in 2010
422010 Results: Record Earnings amid 
Strong Cross-Sell and Reduction in 
Nonaccruing Assets
For Commercial Banking, 2010 
proved to be another year of excep
-
tional performance. By staying true 

to our steadfast discipline in client 
selection and actively managing our 

risk, we delivered record revenue 

of $6 billion, record earnings of 

$2.1 billion and an ROE of 26%. We 

also continued to diligently manage 
expenses Œ up only 1% from 2009 Œ 

resulting in operating margin growth 
of 8% and a best-in-class overhead 

ratio of 36%.This year, our clients generated 
record gross Investment Banking 

revenue, up 15% from 2009 to $1.3 

billion. This partnership accounted 

for almost a quarter of the ˜rm™s 

domestic IB fees in 2010. There™s still 

room left to grow, and we are working 

closely with our IB partners to 

actively identify new opportunities. 
In 2010, we lowered nonaccrual loans 
by nearly 30% through an aggressive 

reduction in troubled assets. Charge-

o˛s remained somewhat elevated, 

at 0.94% of total loans, but were 

signi˜cantly below their 2009 peak of 
During my 32 years in the industry, 

I never have been more proud and 

excited to be a JPMorgan Chase 

commercial banker. Our business has 

achieved transformational growth 

since 2005, the year following the 

JPMorgan Chase and Bank One 

merger. In this time, we grew 

revenue by 73%, loans by 102% and 

liabilities by 110%, and we more than 

doubled our operating margin and 
earnings. We also have expanded 

our geographic footprint and now 

operate across 28 states and in more 
than 115 of the largest cities in the 
United States and Canada. Dedicated client service and person
-alized local banker coverage are 
fundamental to our banking model. 

Our client turnover is minimal, and 

our average client relationship tenor 

is greater than 14 years. Although 

our relationships are local, we rely 

on the global reach of JPMorgan 

Chase™s lending, Treasury Services, 

Investment Banking (IB) and Asset 

Management businesses. This part
-
nership across our businesses results 

in very strong cross-sell, and, on 

average, our clients use more than 

eight products per relationship.    
1.02%. Even through the most chal
-
lenging period of the ˜nancial crisis, 

Commercial Banking maintained a 
fortress balance sheet with strong 

reserve levels. We ended 2010 with 

more than $2.5 billion reserved for 

loan losses, or 2.61% of ending loan 

balances. As we enter 2011, credit costs 

are approaching normalized levels.
At JPMorgan Chase, we are proud 
members of the communities  
we serve and are committed to 
 
strengthening the economy. 
 
I always am surprised when people 

say banks aren™t lending to small 

businesses. In fact, companies with 

annual revenue of $50 million or 

less represent nearly 70% of our 
middle market client base. This year 

alone, we extended $92 billion in 

new ˜nancing across our businesses, 

including over $9 billion to more 

than 600 government entities, not-

for-pro˜t organizations, healthcare 

companies and educational institu-
tions. Additionally, we recently intro
-
duced a program called Lending Our 
Strength, a ˜nancing initiative specif
-ically designed to support our clients™ 

growth by o˛ering ˚exible structures 

and terms for the purchase of equip
-
ment and owner-occupied real estate. 
Commercial Bankingﬁ Even more than 
 the sheer size of our  client base, I take 
 
pride in our focus on 

building long-term  
relationships.ﬂ
43Through our Community Devel
-opment Banking group, we also 
committed nearly $1.5 billion to 
create and retain more than 12,000 
units of a˛ordable housing for 
 
low- and moderate-income families.
2011 Priorities: U.S. and Global 
Market Expansions and an Even 

Higher Cross-Sell Target  
While we are pleased with our track 
record of strong performance, we 

are even more enthusiastic about 

what lies ahead. We are actively 

pursuing four key areas of growth:
U.S. Market Expansion
 Œ Cali-fornia, Washington, Oregon, Florida 

and Georgia represent attractive 

new growth markets for us. With 

over 250 dedicated resources 

in place, this expansion is well 

under way and has the potential 

to generate more than $1 billion in 

additional revenue for Commer
-cial Banking. We also have over 

40 commercial bankers covering 

key markets outside our branch 

footprint, including Philadelphia, 

Boston, Washington D.C., 
 St. Louis and Minneapolis. 
International Growth
 Œ As 
 
U.S. companies increase global 

commerce, serving their commercial 

banking needs has become a key 

di˛erentiator that sets us apart from 
the competition. Since 2005, we 

have added more than 1,400 clients 

outside the United States and will 
continue to increase our o˝ce and 
branch locations around the world as 

our customers expand their reach.
Investment Banking
 Œ Six years ago, 
we set a target of $1 billion in revenue 

from IB products sold to commercial 

clients. Since that time, we have more 

than doubled this revenue, achieving 

$1.3 billion in gross IB revenue in 2010. 

We are con˜dent that we will continue 

to gain share and have set a new goal 

of $2 billion in gross IB revenue within 

the next ˜ve years.
Commercial Real Estate Œ Finally, 
we are seeing improved opportuni
-
ties in each of our three real estate 

businesses: Commercial Term 

Lending, Real Estate Banking and 

Community Development Banking. 

Through the most recent cycle 
of market stress, we signi˜cantly 
outperformed our peers, giving us 

the con˜dence and resolve to capi
-
talize on future real estate demand. 
As we move forward, we will dili
-
gently maintain our conservative 

underwriting approach and prudent 

risk management so that we are able 

to grow our real estate portfolios 

responsibly as the market recovers. 
As I look back over the last few years, 
 I am very pleased with Commercial 
 Banking™s progress since the merger. 
Together, we have achieved an unpar
-alleled combination of competitive 

advantages: exceptional people, critical 

branch footprint, product and service 

superiority, capital strength and large 

scale. All our accomplishments, both 

past and present, not only validate 
 our status as an industry leader but 

also position us to continue to meet 

the needs of our clients and grow our 
 business well into the future.  
 Todd Maclin
 CEO, Commercial Banking
2010 Highlights and Accomplishments


































































































































Gross Investment Banking 
Revenue
20004006008001,000
20052010
1,200$1,400
$552$1,335142%
44Across the industry, treasury and 
securities servicing are attractive 
businesses with strong fundamental 

characteristics. They provide stable 

earnings with excellent margins and 

high returns on capital. They also 

grow as global economies grow, trade 

activity increases and clients™ activi
-
ties in international markets expand. 

And such businesses are hard to repli
-
cate: Success requires scale of invest
-
ment in people, systems and services. 

Having made the necessary invest
-
ment, TSS is a leader in each of our 

businesses and one of the very few 

˜rms with the ˜nancial strength and 

resources to maintain that leadership.
That said, we have work to do. Given 
TSS™ intrinsic strengths, our perfor
-mance is not where it has the poten-
tial to be. The TSS leadership team 

is highly focused on closing this gap 

between the quality of our business 

and the ˜nancial results we deliver. 

We will do so by improving our 

operating margins through increased 

e˝ciency and product innovation; 

bene˜ting, where possible, from 

higher interest-rate environments; 

and, most critically, extending our 

higher-margin international business.
During the six years that I had 
 
the privilege of serving as 
JPMorgan Chase™s Chief Financial 

O˝cer, I gained perspective on all 

the ˜rm™s businesses. Treasury & 

Securities Services (TSS) is notable 
not only for its inherently attrac
-
tive business characteristics but 

also for its global potential.
TSS has tremendous capacity for 
pro˜table overseas growth like the 

˜rm™s other international wholesale 

businesses Œ Investment Banking 

and Asset Management. That 

potential resides in both of TSS™ 

operating units: Treasury Services 

(TS), comprising cash manage
-
ment, payments and receivables, 

liquidity management and trade 
˜nance; and Worldwide Securities 

Services (WSS), comprising asset 

custody and administration.
Now that I have the equally great 
privilege of serving as CEO of TSS, 
 I would like to talk about the 

strengths of this business and 
discuss how we are going to realize 

its potential.2010 Results: Volume Up and 
Revenue Flat, with Strategic 
 
Investment for the Future
TSS reported 2010 net income of $1.1 billion, down from $1.2 billion in 2009. 

Revenue was ˚at, at $7.4 billion, as 

spreads remained low and securities 

lending revenue fell by 30%. Expenses 

rose on higher business volume and 

investment in global expansion.
Revenue was roughly even between 
TS and WSS, each at approximately 

$3.7 billion. Just under half of total 

TSS revenue was generated outside 
 the United States. 
Despite the challenging market envi
-ronment, there was strong growth in 

the underlying revenue drivers for 

both operating units. In WSS, assets 

under custody grew 8% to $16.1 

trillion. In TS, deposits or liability 

balances totaled $169.2 billion, 5% 

higher than in 2009.To support growth initiatives, we 
invested heavily in 2010 in our 

people, products and infrastructure, 

fueling a 6% rise in expense. Most 

notably, we hired nearly 150 new sales 

and relationship managers around 

the world, bringing our total to nearly 

1,100 globally, and we increased tech
-
nology expenditures by 23%.
Treasury & Securities Services
ﬁ Treasury & Securities 
Services is notable not only for its inherently 

attractive business 
 
characteristics but also 

for its global potential.ﬂ
45












































2010 Highlights and Accomplishments
2011 Priorities: Primed to Capture 
Growth Globally
We expect to increase earnings 
over the next few years as we 

reach our operating margin target 

of 35%, a considerable step up 

from 2010™s margin of 23%. Some 

of that improvement will come as 

interest rates normalize, boosting 

our net interest income and 

fees; and some will result from 

improved operating e˝ciency and 

upgraded product o˛erings.
The area of greatest potential, 
however, is our international busi
-
ness. As our clients expand rapidly 

into new markets around the world, 

they need local access to the oper
-ating services TSS provides. We are 

investing in our ˜rm-wide network 

so we can be where our clients are, 

serving them seamlessly as they 

expand geographically.
The accelerating globalization of 
our clients was a key impetus for 

the recently launched J.P. Morgan 

Global Corporate Bank (GCB), 

which serves current and prospec
-
tive wholesale clients in nearly 

every major world market. In 

tandem with the GCB initiative, 

we are aggressively expanding the 

international capabilities of the TS 

unit. Over the next three years, we 

will add approximately 20 loca
-
tions outside the United States, 

primarily in emerging markets, and 

we will have hired approximately 

200 new corporate bankers since 

the end of 2009. This investment is 

critical to support companies based 

in emerging economies that are 

expanding into developed inter
-national markets, as well as global 

corporations moving into new 

markets and emerging economies.
In TSS™ other operating unit, WSS, 
approximately 60% of revenue already 

comes from outside the United States, 

with client service and relation-














































 Treasury 
Management International




 The Asian Banker



Trade & Forfaiting Review



Global Investor




 International Custody & Fund
 Administration















-













ship management functions in 30 
markets. WSS will continue to grow 

by deepening our service coverage, 

strengthening client relationships and 

expanding its local capabilities to serve 

our clients as they extend their asset 

management activities around the 

world. Further growth will occur as 

capital markets in emerging econo
-
mies continue to open and develop.
I am con˜dent and excited about the 
future of TSS. We have the resources, 

capital and opportunities to grow. 

Improving economic fundamentals Œ 

combined with the higher revenue 

we expect from our international 

expansion and lower investment 

spending as our strategic initiatives 

are completed Œ position us very well 

for the next stage of growth.
 Mike Cavanagh
 CEO, Treasury & Securities Services 
Trade Loans Up $11.0 Billion
0510
15
20
2505101520$25051015$20010020030040050060070
0$800$316$7
.9
2009  $691  $15.6
$10.2
  $21.2201020092010J.
P.
 Morga
nIndustry 
Av
erageTr
ade loans are up $8.2 billion or 102% 107%46ment, Highbridge and Gávea fran
-chises, we count among us many of 
the world™s top portfolio managers, 

research analysts, traders and client 

advisors. They invest in a full range 

of stock and bond strategies, as well 

as o˛er a comprehensive range of 

investments from leading hedge 

fund, private equity and real estate 

managers. With this broader plat
-
form, we are better able to serve 

an increasingly sophisticated and 

engaged client base.
2010: A Record Year
Despite sweeping regulatory changes 
to our industry during the past year, 

little has changed in the way we 

conduct our investment businesses. 
 In 2010, we continued our tradition 
 of client and shareholder focus and 

delivered record revenue of nearly 
 $9 billion, up from almost $8 billion 

in 2009. Net income rose 20% to $1.7 

billion, our highest annual earnings 

in three years, with return on equity 

of 26% and a healthy margin of 31%. 

These results were produced while 

continuing to invest in our people, 

systems and risk management; 

improving our operations; and leading 

the industry in developing best-in-class 

legal and compliance practices.
When I joined J.P. Morgan Asset 

Management in 1996, it was a much 

di˛erent business. We managed $179 

billion of assets, generating about $1 

billion in revenue for the ˜rm. Of our 

few thousand clients, most were very 

large institutions and ultra-high-net- 

worth individuals that were invested 

primarily in stocks and bonds. 
Fifteen years later, by virtually any 
measure, Asset Management has 

become one of the leading global 
money managers and private banks, 

serving individuals, institutions, 

pension funds, endowments, founda
-
tions, central banks and sovereign 

entities globally. 
Today, we have $1.3 trillion in assets 
under management (AUM) and $1.8 

trillion in assets under supervision. 
Our revenue has grown to nearly $9 

billion. We now deliver our products 

and services locally through more 
than 200 o˝ces around the world 

to over 7,000 institutions and more 

than 5 million individuals.
Through our J.P. Morgan Private 
Bank, Private Wealth Management, 

J.P. Morgan Securities, J.P. Morgan 

Asset Management, JF Asset Manage
-After the 2008 ˜nancial crisis, we 

saw tremendous cash in˚ows into 

our ˜rm as part of a ﬁ˚ight to qualityﬂ 

from many places in the world. 
 As risk appetite began to rebound, 
 clients Œ many of them new to our 

˜rm Œ diversi˜ed into solutions 

across our platform, driving our long-

term net new AUM ˚ows to a record 

$69 billion and the highest levels 

of total AUM ($1.3 trillion) in our 

history. We continue to attract new 

assets in many of these areas because 

of our strong long-term investment 

performance, with 80% of our funds 

ranking in the top two quartiles in the 

industry over a ˜ve-year period.
(a) While our primary goal is to be the 

most respected asset manager Œ not 

the biggest Œ our business cannot be 

successful without continuous invest
-
ment in talented new professionals. 

In Private Banking, we grew our 

client advisor team by 15% globally 

and 32% outside the United States. In 

our Global Institutional and Sover
-eigns businesses, we strengthened our 

senior sales management by putting 

top talent in key leadership positions. 
Asset Managementﬁ Our success ultimately is  measured by our ability 
to generate superior  
risk-adjusted returns  
for our clients over the 

long term and across 
business cycles.ﬂ
















47






in local delivery of our products 
 and services to the myriad markets 
 we serve, especially in our under-
penetrated international markets. 
Throughout our more than 175 years 

of constant evolution and expan
-
sion, what never has changed is our 

commitment to delivering ﬁ˜rst-

class business in a ˜rst-class way.ﬂ 

Whether we are investing assets, 

providing trust and estate services 
 
or lending money, we take our 

responsibility to clients very seri
-ously. Clients come to us because 

we deliver best-in-class investment 

management. But clients stay with 

us because they trust we always will 

uphold our obligations to them. 
We look forward to continuing to 
invest in the best people and tech
-
nology to provide superior invest
-
ment advice to our clients around 

the world for generations to come.
  
 
 
 
Mary Callahan Erdoes CEO, Asset Management 





 Pensions & 
 Investments 



  Absolute Return 






Strategic Insight






The Asset
















-











-






 Institutional Investor








 Institutional Investor
2010 Highlights and Accomplishments
In retail distribution, we increased 
our sales teams by 20% across the 

United States; Europe, Middle East 

and Africa; and Asia Paci˜c. 
Finally, in the investment arena, 
as part of our commitment to 

increasing local coverage in 

important emerging markets, we 

purchased a majority stake in Gávea 

Investimentos, a leading alternative 

investments company in Brazil run 

by Arminio Fraga, former presi
-
dent of the Central Bank of Brazil. 

Through its hedge funds, private 

equity and longer-term investments, 

and wealth management services, 

Gávea invests across both emerging 

and broader international markets, 
 with a macroeconomic, research-
 intensive investment process.
This transaction was particularly 
important as our clients are increas-
ingly looking to access Brazil™s 

rapidly growing economy. Together 

with Gávea, we now can provide our 

clients with a powerful combination 

of local emerging markets expertise 

and a global platform. We™ve had the 

pleasure of getting to know Arminio 

over the last decade as he™s served 
on J.P. Morgan™s International Council. 

During that time, I™ve seen ˜rsthand 

the unique perspective he and his 

team bring to investment decisions in 

Brazil, as well as the government expe
-
rience the team applies to macroinvest
-ment decisions. I™m thrilled that our 

clients globally now are able to bene˜t 

from Gávea™s investment expertise. 
Strategic Priorities for 2011 
Our success ultimately is measured by our ability to generate superior 

risk-adjusted returns for our clients 

over the long term and across busi
-
ness cycles. With very strong and 

consistent investment performance 

across most products, our priorities 

are focused on three areas that will 

further strengthen our leadership:

 investment performance in existing 

products and improve any areas of 

underperformance. 






maintain our leadership position in 

innovation of new products and bring 

creative ideas quickly to market, espe
-
cially in an increasingly global and 
interconnected environment. 050010001500
2000


































050010001500
2000


































Assets under Supervision Š 
2005 to 2010Global Mutual Fund
Performance Metrics
(percentage)
48










-























-




































-































-











-




























-


-








-
















































-









2010 Highlights and Accomplishments

0100200
300
400
500
600
700
800Community Development $77,405 40%
Arts & Culture  $15,499 8%

Education   $67,111 35%

Employee Programs  $7,267 4%

Other   $25,384 13%

Total   $192,666 100%






Chase is on track to deliver on its 10-year, $800 billion pledge of 
investment in low- and moderate-income communities. Seven years 

into the pledge, we already have invested more than $650 billion.   
  (in billions)At JPMorgan Chase, corporate responsibility is a part of how we do what we  
do every day for customers and the communities we serve. We are committed 

to responsibly managing our businesses in a manner that creates value for our 

consumer, small business and corporate clients, as well as our shareholders, 

communities and employees.
2010 Charitable Contributions*





0100200
300
400
500
600
700
800Community Development $77,405 40%
Arts & Culture  $15,499 8%

Education   $67,111 35%

Employee Programs  $7,267 4%

Other   $25,384 13%

Total   $192,666 100%













Corporate Responsibility
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 51
Financial:  
52  Five-Year Summary of Consolidated Financial Highl
ights  
53  Five-Year Stock Performance  
Management™s discussion and analysis: 
 54  Introduction  
55  Executive Overview  

59  Consolidated Results of Operations  

64  Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm™s Use of  
 Non-GAAP Financial Measures  
67  Business Segment Results 

91  International Operations 

92  Balance Sheet Analysis  
95  OffŒBalance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Cash 
 Obligations  
102  Capital Management  
107  Risk Management  

110  Liquidity Risk Management  
116  Credit Risk Management  
142  Market Risk Management  

147  Private Equity Risk Management  

147  Operational Risk Management  
148  Reputation and Fiduciary Risk Management 
149  Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm  

155 Accounting and Reporting Developments  

156  Nonexchange-Traded Commodity Derivative Contracts at 
 Fair Value  
157  Forward-Looking Statements  
 Audited financial statements:  
158 Management™s Report on Internal Control  
 Over Financial Reporting  
159 Report of Independent Registered Public 
 Accounting Firm  
160  Consolidated Financial Statements  
164  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
Supplementary information:  
295 Selected Quarterly Financial Data  

297 Selected Annual Financial Data  
299 Short-term and other borrowed funds  
300 Glossary of Terms 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
52
FIVE-YEAR 
SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 (unaudited)  
(in millions, except per share, headcount and ratio data)  
As of or for the year ended December 31,  
 2010 
2009 
      2008(d) 
 2007 
 2006
 Selected income statement data  
  Total net revenue  
$  102,694 
$  100,434 $  67,252 $  71,372  $     
61,999 
 Total noninterest expense  
 61,196 
 52,352  43,500  41,703  
38,843 
 Pre-provision profit
(a) 
 41,498 
 48,082  23,752  29,669  
23,156 
 Provision for credit losses  
 16,639 
 32,015  19,445  6,864  
3,270 
 Provision for credit losses Œ accounting conformity (b) 
 Š 
 Š  1,534  Š 
 Š
 Income from continuing operations before income tax  
   expense/(benefit) and extraordinary gain 
 24,859 
 16,067  2,773  22,805  
19,886 
 Income tax expense/(benefit) 
 7,489 
 4,415  (926)  7,440  
6,237 
 Income from continuing operations  
 17,370 
 11,652  3,699  15,365  
13,649 
 Income from discontinued operations (c)  
 Š 
 Š  Š  Š 
 795 
 Income before extraordinary gain 
 17,370 
 11,652  3,699  15,365  
14,444 
 Extraordinary gain(d) 
 Š 
 76  1,906  Š 
 Š
 Net income 
 $  17,370 
$  11,728 $  5,605 $  15,365  $     
14,444 
 Per common share data
  Basic earnings
     Income from continuing operations  
$  3.98 
$  2.25 $  0.81 $  4.38  $         
3.83 
    Net income  
 3.98 
 2.27  1.35  4.38 
 4.05 
 Diluted earnings
 (e) 
    Income from continuing operations  
$  3.96 
$  2.24 $  0.81 $  4.33  $         
3.78 
    Net income  
 3.96 
 2.26  1.35  4.33 
 4.00 
 Cash dividends declared per share  
 0.20 
 0.20  1.52  1.48 
 1.36 
 Book value per share  
 43.04 
 39.88  36.15  36.59  
33.45 
 Common shares outstanding
  Average: Basic 
 3,956.3 
 3,862.8  3,501.1  3,403.6   3,470.1
   Diluted 
 3,976.9 
 3,879.7  3,521.8  3,445.3  3,516.1
 Common shares at period-end 
 3,910.3 
 3,942.0  3,732.8  3,367.4   
3,461.7 
 Share price 
(f) 
 High  
$  48.20 
$  47.47 $  50.63 $  53.25  $       
49.00 
 Low  
 35.16 
 14.96  19.69  40.15  
37.88 
 Close  
 42.42 
 41.67  31.53  43.65  
48.30 
 Market capitalization  
 165,875 
 164,261  117,695  146,986   
167,199 
 Selected ratios 
  Return on common equity (ﬁROEﬂ) (e) 
    Income from continuing operations  
  10%  
  6%   2%   13%  
 12 
%    Net income  
 10 
 6  4  13  
 13 
 Return on tangible common equity (ﬁROTCEﬂ) (e) 
    Income from continuing operations  
 15 
 10  4   22  
 24 
    Net income  
 15 
 10  6   22  
 24 
 Return on assets (ﬁROAﬂ)  
    Income from continuing operations  
 0.85 
 0.58  0.21   1.06  
 1.04 
    Net income  
 0.85 
 0.58  0.31   1.06  
 1.10 
 Overhead ratio  
 60  
 52   65   58  
 63 
 Deposits-to-loans ratio  
 134  
 148   135   143  
 132 
 Tier 1 capital ratio (g)   
 12.1 
 11.1  10.9  8.4  
 8.7 
 Total capital ratio  
 15.5 
 14.8  14.8  12.6  
 12.3 
 Tier 1 leverage ratio  
 7.0 
 6.9  6.9   6.0  
 6.2 
 Tier 1 common capital ratio (h)  
 9.8 
 8.8  7.0   7.0  
 7.3 
 Selected balance sheet data (period-end) 
(g) 
 Trading assets  
$ 489,892 
$ 411,128 $ 509,983 $ 491,409  $    
365,738 
 Securities  
 316,336 
 360,390  205,943  85,450   
91,975 
 Loans  
 692,927 
 633,458  744,898  519,374   
483,127 
 Total assets  
 2,117,605 
 2,031,989  2,175,052  1,562,147   
1,351,520 
 Deposits  
 930,369 
 938,367  1,009,277  740,728   
638,788 
 Long-term debt  
 247,669 
 266,318  270,683  199,010   
145,630 
 Common stockholders™ equity  
 168,306 
 157,213  134,945  123,221   
115,790 
 Total stockholders™ equity  
 176,106 
 165,365  166,884  123,221   
115,790 
 Headcount 
  239,831 
 222,316  224,961  180,667   
174,360 
 (a) Pre-provision profit is total net revenue less noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to generate 
income in excess of its provision for credit losses. 
(b) Results for 2008 included an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank™s (ﬁWashington Mutual ﬁ) banking operations. 
(c) On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase & Co. completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses for the consumer, business banking and middle-market banking 
businesses of The Bank of New York Company Inc. The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses were reported as discontinued operations. 
(d) On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual. On May 30, 2008, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase merged with 
and into The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. (ﬁBear Stearnsﬂ), and Bear Stearns became a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase. The Washington Mutual acquisition resulted 

in negative goodwill, and accordingly, the Firm recorded an extraordinary gain. A preliminary gain of $1.9 billion was recognized at December 31, 2008. The final total 
extraordinary gain that resulted from the Washington Mutual transaction was $2.0 billion. For additional information on these transactions, see Note 2 on pages 166Œ170 of this 
Annual Report.  
(e) The calculation of 2009 earnings per share (ﬁEPSﬂ) and net income applicable to common equity includes a one-time, noncash reduction of $1.1 billion, or $0.27 per share, 
resulting from repayment of U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program (ﬁTARPﬂ) preferred capital in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding this reduction, the adjusted ROE and ROTCE 

were 7% and 11%, respectively, for 2009. The Firm views the adjusted ROE and ROTCE, both non-GAAP financial measures, as meaningful because they enable the comparability 

to prior periods. For further discussion, see ﬁExplanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measuresﬂ on pages 64Œ66 of this Annual Report. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 53
(f) Share prices shown for JPMorgan Chase™s common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange. JPMorgan Chase™s common stock is also listed and traded on the London Stock 
Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
(g) Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance that amended the accounting for the transfer of financial assets and the consolidation of variable interest entities 
(ﬁVIEsﬂ). Upon adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts, Firm-administered multi-seller conduits and certain other 
consumer loan securitization entities, primarily mortgage-related, adding $87.7 billion and $92.2 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, and decreasing stockholders™ equity 
and the Tier 1 capital ratio by $4.5 billion and 34 basis points, respectively. The reduction to stockholders™ equity was driven by the establishment of an allowance for loan losses of 
$7.5 billion (pretax) primarily related to receivables held in credit card securitization trusts that were consolidated at the adoption date. 
(h) The Firm uses Tier 1 common capital (ﬁTier 1 commonﬂ) along with the other capital measures to assess and monitor its capital position. The Tier 1 common capital ratio (ﬁTier 1 
common ratioﬂ) is Tier 1 common divided by risk-weighted assets. For further discussion, see Regulatory capital on pages 102Œ104 of this Annual Report. 
 FIVE-YEAR STOCK PERFORMANCE  
 The following table and graph compare the five-year cumulative 
total return for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂ or the 
ﬁFirmﬂ) common stock with the cumulative return of the S&P 500 

Stock Index and the S&P Financial Index. The S&P 500 Index is a 

commonly referenced U.S. equity benchmark consisting of leading 

companies from different economic sectors. The S&P Financial 
Index is an index of 81 financial companies, all of which are within 

the S&P 500. The Firm is a component of both industry indices.  
The following table and graph assume simultaneous investments 
of $100 on December 31, 2005, in JPMorgan Chase common 

stock and in each of the above S&P indices. The comparison 

assumes that all dividends are reinvested. 
 December 31,
       (in dollars)
 2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
 JPMorgan Chase
 $ 100.00
$ 125.55
$ 116.75
$ 87.19
$ 116.98
$ 119.61
 S&P Financial Index
    
100.00
   
119.19
   
96.99
   
43.34
   
50.80
   
56.96
 S&P 500 Index
    
100.00
   
115.79
   
122.16
   
76.96
   
97.33
   
111.99
     
 
 
   
 
   
  This section of JPMorgan Chase™s Annual Report for the year 
ended December 31, 2010 (ﬁAnnual Reportﬂ) provides 
management™s discussion and analysis (ﬁMD&Aﬂ) of the financial 
condition and results of operations of JPMorgan Chase. See the 
Glossary of terms on pages 300Œ303 for definitions of terms used 
throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included in this 
Annual Report contains statements that are forward-looking 
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act 
of 1995. Such statements are based on the current beliefs and 
expectations of JPMorgan Chase™s management and are subject 
to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and 
uncertainties could cause the Firm™s actual results to differ 
materially from those set forth in such forward-looking 
statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described 
herein (see Forward-looking Statements on page 157 of this 
Annual Report) and in the JPMorgan Chase Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (ﬁ2010 Form 
10-Kﬂ), in Part I, Item 1A: Risk factors, to which reference is 
hereby made.
050100150December 31,(in dollars)2005   20062007200820092010S&P FinancialS&P 500JPMorgan Chase
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
54
INTRODUCTION 
JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial holding company incorporated 
under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services 

firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States 

of America (ﬁU.S.ﬂ), with $2.1 trillion in assets, $176.1 billion in 

stockholders™ equity and operations in more than 60 countries as of 

December 31, 2010. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, 

financial services for consumers, small business and commercial 

banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and 

private equity. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm 

serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world™s 

most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.  
JPMorgan Chase™s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan 
Chase Bank, National Association (ﬁJPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A.ﬂ), a national bank with branches in 23 states in the U.S.; 

and Chase Bank USA, National Association (ﬁChase Bank USA, 

N.A.ﬂ), a national bank that is the Firm™s credit card issuing 

bank. JPMorgan Chase™s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. 

Morgan Securities LLC (ﬁJPMorgan Securitiesﬂ; formerly J.P. 

Morgan Securities Inc.), the Firm™s U.S. investment banking firm.  
JPMorgan Chase™s activities are organized, for management 
reporting purposes, into six business segments, as well as 

Corporate/Private Equity. The Firm™s wholesale businesses 

comprise the Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & 

Securities Services and Asset Management segments. The Firm™s 

consumer businesses comprise the Retail Financial Services and 

Card Services segments. A description of the Firm™s business 

segments, and the products and services they provide to their 

respective client bases, follows.  
Investment Bank 
 J.P. Morgan is one of the world™s leading investment banks, with 
deep client relationships and broad product capabilities. The clients 

of the Investment Bank (ﬁIBﬂ) are corporations, financial 

institutions, governments and institutional investors. The Firm offers 

a full range of investment banking products and services in all 

major capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and 

structure, capital-raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated 

risk management, market-making in cash securities and derivative 

instruments, prime brokerage, and research.  
Retail Financial Services 
 Retail Financial Services (ﬁRFSﬂ) serves consumers and businesses 
through personal service at bank branches and through ATMs, 

online banking and telephone banking, as well as through auto 

dealerships and school financial-aid offices. Customers can use 

more than 5,200 bank branches (third-largest nationally) and 

16,100 ATMs (second-largest nationally), as well as online and 

mobile banking around the clock. More than 28,900 branch 

salespeople assist customers with checking and savings accounts, 

mortgages, home equity and business loans, and investments 
across the 23-state footprint from New York and Florida to 

California. Consumers also can obtain loans through more than 

16,200 auto dealerships and 2,200 schools and universities 

nationwide. 
Card Services  
Card Services (ﬁCSﬂ) is one of the nation™s largest credit card 

issuers, with over $137 billion in loans and over 90 million open 

accounts. Customers used Chase cards to meet $313 billion of their 

spending needs in 2010. Through its merchant acquiring business, 

Chase Paymentech Solutions, CS is a global leader in payment 

processing and merchant acquiring. 
Commercial Banking  
Commercial Banking (ﬁCBﬂ) delivers extensive industry knowledge, 

local expertise and dedicated service to nearly 24,000 clients 

nationally, including corporations, municipalities, financial institutions 

and not-for-profit entities with annual revenue generally ranging from 

$10 million to $2 billion, and nearly 35,000 real estate 

investors/owners. CB partners with the Firm™s other businesses to 

provide comprehensive solutions, including lending, treasury services, 

investment banking and asset management to meet its clients™ 

domestic and international financial needs.  
Treasury & Securities Services 
 Treasury & Securities Services (ﬁTSSﬂ) is a global leader in 
transaction, investment and information services. TSS is one of the 

world™s largest cash management providers and a leading global 

custodian. Treasury Services (ﬁTSﬂ) provides cash management, 

trade, wholesale card and liquidity products and services to small- 

and mid-sized companies, multinational corporations, financial 

institutions and government entities. TS partners with IB, CB, RFS 

and Asset Management businesses to serve clients firmwide. 

Certain TS revenue is included in other segments™ results. 

Worldwide Securities Services holds, values, clears and services 

securities, cash and alternative investments for investors and 

broker-dealers, and manages depositary receipt programs globally.  
Asset Management 
 Asset Management (ﬁAMﬂ), with assets under supervision of $1.8 
trillion, is a global leader in investment and wealth management. AM 

clients include institutions, retail investors and high-net-worth 

individuals in every major market throughout the world. AM offers 

global investment management in equities, fixed income, real estate, 

hedge funds, private equity and liquidity products, including money-

market instruments and bank deposits. AM also provides trust and 

estate, banking and brokerage services to high-net-worth clients, and 

retirement services for corporations and individuals. The majority of 

AM™s client assets are in actively managed portfolios.  
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 55
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  
This executive overview of MD&A highlights selected information 
and may not contain all of the information that is important to 
readers of this Annual Report. For a complete description of events, 
trends and uncertainties, as well as the capital, liquidity, credit, 
operational and market risks, and the critical accounting estimates, 
affecting the Firm and its various lines of business, this Annual 
Report should be read in its entirety. 
Economic environment 
The business environment in 2010 continued to improve
, as signs 
of growth and stability returned to both the global capital markets 
and the U.S. economy. The year began with a continuation of the 

trends seen at the end of 2009: although unemployment had 

reached 10%, its highest level since 1983, signs were emerging 

that deterioration in the labor markets was abating and economic 

activity was beginning to expand. The housing sector also showed 

some signs of improvement, which was helped by a new round of 

home-buyer credits. Overall, during 2010, the business 

environment continued to improve and the U.S. economy grew, 

though the pace of growth was not sufficient to meaningfully affect 

unemployment which, at year-end 2010, stood at 9.4%. Consumer 

spending expanded at a moderate rate early in the year and 

accelerated as the year progressed, as households continued to 

reduce debt and increase savings. Businesses began to spend 

aggressively, with outlays for equipment and software expanding at 

a double-digit pace over the course of the year. Additionally, 

businesses cautiously added to payrolls in every month of the year.  
Low inflation allowed the Federal Reserve to maintain its 
accommodative stance throughout 2010, in order to help promote 

the U.S. economic recovery. The Federal Reserve maintained the 

target range for the federal funds rate at zero to one-quarter 

percent and continued to indicate that economic conditions were 

likely to warrant a low federal funds rate for an extended period. 
The U.S. and global economic recovery paused briefly during the 
second quarter of 2010 as concerns arose that European countries 

would have to take measures to address their worsening fiscal 

positions. Equity markets fell sharply, and bond yields tumbled. 

Concerns about the developed economies, particularly in Europe, 

persisted throughout 2010 and have continued into 2011.  

However, fears that the U.S. recovery was faltering proved 

unfounded, and the U.S. economy continued to grow over the 

second half of the year. At the same time, growth in the emerging 

economies remained robust. During the fourth quarter, the Federal 

Reserve announced a program to purchase longer-term Treasury 

securities through 2011 in order to restrain interest rates and boost 

the economy. These developments, combined with record U.S. 

corporate profit margins and rapid international growth, continued 

to support stock markets as financial market conditions improved 

and risk spreads continued to narrow. 
Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase 
Year ended December 31, 
    
(in millio
ns, except per share data 
  and ratios) 
 2010 
 2009 Change 
Selected income stat
ement data
   Total net revenue 
  
$ 102,694
     $ 100,434    2%
 Total noninterest expense 
 61,196
   52,352 17
Pre-provision profit 
 41,498
   48,082 (14) 
Provision for credit losses 
 16,639
   32,015 (48) 
Income before extraordinary gain 
 17,370
   11,652 49
Extraordinary gain 
 Š   76 NM 
Net income
  17,370
   11,728 48
Diluted earnings per share
   Income before extraordinary gain 
  
$ 3.96
    $ 2.24 77
Net income 
 3.96
  2.26 75
Return on common equ
ity
   Income before extraordinary gain 
           
 10%
             6%
 Net income 
 10
  6 
Capital ratios
   Tier 1 capital 
 12.1
  11.1 
Tier 1 common capital 
 9.8
  8.8 
 Business overview 
 Ag
ainst the backdrop of the improvement in the business 
environment during the year, JPMorgan Chase reported full-year 
2010 record net income of $17.4 billion, or $3.96 per share, on net 

revenue of $102.7 billion. Net income was up 48% compared with 

net income of $11.7 billion, or $2.26 per share, in 2009. Return on 

common equity was 10% for the year, compared with 6% for the 

prior year.  
The increase in net income for 2010 was driven by a lower 
provision for credit losses and higher net revenue, partially offset by 

higher noninterest expense. The lower provision for credit losses 

reflected improvements in both the consumer and wholesale 

provisions. The increase in net revenue was due predominantly to 

higher securities gains in the Corporate/Private Equity segment, 

increased other income and increased principal transactions 

revenue, partially offset by lower credit card income. The increase in 

noninterest expense was largely due to higher litigation expense.  
JPMorgan Chase benefited from an improvement in the credit 
environment during 2010. Compared with 2009, delinquency 

trends were more favorable and estimated losses were lower in the 

consumer businesses, although they remained at elevated levels. 

The credit quality of the commercial and industrial loan portfolio 

across the Firm™s wholesale businesses improved. In addition, for 

the year, net charge-offs were lower across all businesses, though 

the level of net charge-offs in the Firm™s mortgage portfolio 

remained very high and continued to be a significant drag on 

returns. These positive credit trends resulted in reductions in the 

allowance for credit losses in Card Services, the loan portfolio in 

Retail Financial Services (excluding purchased credit-impaired 

loans), and in the Investment Bank and Commercial Banking. 

Nevertheless, the allowance for loan losses associated with the 

Washington Mutual purchased credit-impaired loan portfolio in 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
56
Retail Financial Services increased, reflecting an increase in 
estimated future credit losses largely related to home equity, and, 

to a lesser extent, option ARM loans. Total firmwide credit reserves 

at December 31, 2010, were $33.0 billion, resulting in a firmwide 

loan loss coverage ratio of 4.5% of total loans. 
Strong client relationships and continued investments for growth 
resulted in good results across most of the Firm™s businesses, 

including record revenue and net income in Commercial Banking, 

record revenue in Asset Management and solid results across most 

other businesses. For the year, the Investment Bank ranked #1 for 

Global Investment Banking Fees; Retail Financial Services added 

more than 150 new branches and 5,000 salespeople, and opened 

more than 1.5 million net new checking accounts; Card Services 

rolled out new products and opened 11.3 million new accounts; 

Treasury & Securities Services grew assets under custody to $16.1 

trillion; and Asset Management reported record long-term AUM net 

inflows of $69 billion.  
The Firm also continued to strengthen its balance sheet during 
2010, ending the year with a Tier 1 Common ratio of 9.8% and a 

Tier 1 Capital ratio of 12.1%. Total stockholders™ equity at 

December 31, 2010, was $176.1 billion.  
Throughout 2010, JPMorgan Chase continued to support the 
economic recovery by providing capital, financing and liquidity to its 

clients in the U.S. and around the world. During the year, the Firm 

loaned or raised capital of more than $1.4 trillion for its clients, 

which included more than $10 billion of credit provided to more 

than 250,000 small businesses in the U.S., an increase of more 

than 50% over 2009. JPMorgan Chase also made substantial 

investments in the future of its businesses, including hiring more 

than 8,000 people in the U.S. alone. The Firm remains committed 

to helping homeowners and preventing foreclosures. Since the 

beginning of 2009, the Firm has offered 1,038,000 trial 

modifications to struggling homeowners. Of the 285,000 

modifications that the Firm has completed, more than half were 

modified under Chase programs, and the remainder were offered 

under government-sponsored or agency programs. 
Although the Firm continues to face challenges, there are signs of 
stability and growth returning to both the global capital markets 

and the U.S. economy. The Firm intends to continue to innovate 

and invest in the products that support and serve its clients and the 

communities where it does business.  
The discussion that follows highlights the performance of each 
business segment compared with the prior year and presents results 
on a managed basis. Managed basis starts with the reported U.S. 
GAAP results and, for each line of business and the Firm as a 
whole, includes certain reclassifications to present total net revenue 
on a tax-equivalent basis. Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm 
adopted accounting guidance that required it to consolidate its 
Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts; as a result, 
reported and managed basis relating to credit card securitizations 
are equivalent for periods beginning after January 1, 2010. Prior to 
the adoption of this accounting guidance, in 2009 and all other 
prior periods, U.S. GAAP results for CS and the Firm were also 
adjusted for certain reclassifications that assumed credit card loans 
that had been securitized and sold by CS remained on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. These adjustments (ﬁmanaged 
basisﬂ) had no impact on net income as reported by the Firm as a 
whole or by the lines of business. For more information about 
managed basis, as well as other non-GAAP financial measures used 
by management to evaluate the performance of each line of 
business, see pages 64Œ66 of this Annual Report. 
Investment Bank 
net income decreased from the prior year, 
reflecting lower net revenue and higher noninterest expense, 

partially offset by a benefit from the provision for credit losses and 

gains of $509 million from the widening of the Firm™s credit spread 

on certain structured and derivative liabilities (compared with losses 

of $2.3 billion on the tightening of the spread on those liabilities in 

the prior year). The decrease in net revenue was driven by a decline 

in Fixed Income Markets revenue as well as lower investment 

banking fees. The provision for credit losses was a benefit in 2010, 

compared with an expense in 2009, and reflected a reduction in 

the allowance for loan losses, largely related to net repayments and 

loan sales. Noninterest expense increased, driven by higher 

noncompensation expense, including increased litigation reserves, 

as well as higher compensation expense, including the impact of 

the U.K. Bank Payroll Tax.  
Retail Financial Services 
net income increased significantly from 
the prior year, driven by a lower provision for credit losses, partially 
offset by increased noninterest expense and lower net revenue. Net 

revenue decreased, driven by lower deposit-related fees (including 

the impact of the legislative changes related to non-sufficient funds 

and overdraft fees), and lower loan balances. These decreases were 

partially offset by a shift to wider-spread deposit products, and 

growth in debit card income and auto operating lease income. The 

provision for credit losses decreased from the 2009 level, reflecting 

improved delinquency trends and reduced net charge-offs. The 

provision also reflected an increase in the allowance for loan losses 

for the purchased credit-impaired portfolio, partially offset by a 

reduction in the allowance for loan losses, predominantly for the 

mortgage loan portfolios. Noninterest expense increased from the 

prior year, driven by higher default-related expense for mortgage 

loans serviced, and sales force increases in Business Banking and 

bank branches.  
Card Services 
reported net income compared with a net loss in 
the prior year, as a lower provision for credit losses was partially 
offset by lower net revenue. The decrease in net revenue was 

driven by a decline in net interest income, reflecting lower average 

loan balances, the impact of legislative changes and a decreased 

level of fees. These decreases were partially offset by a decrease in 

revenue reversals associated with lower net charge-offs. The 

provision for credit losses decreased from the prior year, reflecting 

lower net charge-offs and a reduction in the allowance for loan 

losses due to lower estimated losses. The prior-year provision 

included an increase to the allowance for loan losses. Noninterest 

expense increased due to higher marketing expense. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 57
Commercial Banking 
reported record net income, driven by a 
reduction in the provision for credit losses and record net revenue. 
The increase in net revenue was driven by growth in liability 

balances, wider loan spreads, higher net gains from asset sales, 

higher lending-related fees, an improvement in the market 

conditions impacting the value of investments held at fair value, 

and higher investment banking fees; these were largely offset by 

spread compression on liability products and lower loan balances. 

Results also included the impact of the purchase of a $3.5 billion 

loan portfolio during the third quarter of 2010. The provision for 

credit losses decreased from 2009 and reflected a reduction in the 

allowance for credit losses, primarily due to stabilization in the 

credit quality of the loan portfolio and refinements to credit loss 

estimates. Noninterest expense increased slightly, reflecting higher 

headcount-related expense.  
Treasury and Securities Services 
net income decreased from 
the prior year, driven by higher noninterest expense, partially offset 

by a benefit from the provision for credit losses and higher net 

revenue. Worldwide Securities Services net revenue was relatively 

flat, as higher market levels and net inflows of assets under custody 

were offset by lower spreads in securities lending, lower volatility 

on foreign exchange, and lower balances on liability products. 

Treasury Services net revenue was relatively flat, as lower spreads 

on liability products were offset by higher trade loan and card 

product volumes. Assets under custody grew to $16.1 trillion 

during 2010, an 8% increase. Noninterest expense for TSS 

increased, driven by continued investment in new product 

platforms, primarily related to international expansion, and higher 

performance-based compensation expense.  
Asset Management 
net income increased from the prior year on 
record revenue, largely offset by higher noninterest expense. The 
growth in net revenue was driven by the effect of higher market 

levels, net inflows to products with higher margins, higher loan 

originations, higher deposit and loan balances, and higher 

performance fees, partially offset by narrower deposit spreads. 

Assets under supervision increased 8% during 2010 driven by the 

effect of higher market valuations, record net inflows of $69 billion 

to long-term products, and inflows in custody and brokerage 

products, offset partially by net outflows from liquidity 

products. Noninterest expense increased due to higher headcount 

and performance-based compensation.  
Corporate/Private Equity 
net income decreased from the prior 
year, driven by higher noninterest expense partially offset by higher 

net revenue. The increase in net revenue reflected higher securities 

gains, primarily associated with actions taken to reposition the 

Corporate investment securities portfolio in connection with 

managing the Firm™s structural interest rate risk, and higher private 

equity gains. These gains were partially offset by lower net interest 

income from the investment portfolio. The increase in noninterest 

expense was due to an increase in litigation reserves, including 

those for mortgage-related matters, partially offset by the absence 

of a $675 million FDIC special assessment in 2009.  
2011 Business outlook 
The following forward-looking statements are based on the current 
beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase™s management and are 
subject to significant risks and uncertainties. As noted above, these 
risks and uncertainties could cause the Firm™s actual results to differ 
materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. 
See Forward-Looking Statements on page 157 and Risk Factors on 
pages 5Œ12 of this Annual Report. 
JPMorgan Chase™s outlook for 2011 should be viewed against the 

backdrop of the global and U.S. economies, financial markets 

activity, the geopolitical environment, the competitive environment, 

client activity levels, and regulatory and legislative developments in 

the U.S. and other countries where the Firm does business. Each of 

these linked factors will affect the performance of the Firm and its 

lines of business. Economic and macroeconomic factors, such as 

market and credit trends, customer behavior, client business 

strategies and competition, are all expected to affect the Firm™s 

businesses. The outlook for RFS and CS, in particular, reflects the 

expected effect of current economic trends in the U.S relating to 

high unemployment levels and the continuing stress and 

uncertainty in the housing markets. The Firm™s wholesale 

businesses will be affected by market levels and volumes, which are 

volatile and quickly subject to change.  
In the Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer Lending 
business within RFS, management expects mortgage fees and 

related income to be $1 billion or less for the first quarter of 2011, 

given the levels of mortgage interest rates and production volumes 

experienced year-to-date. If mortgage interest rates remain at 

current levels or rise in the future, loan production and margins 

could continue to be negatively affected resulting in lower revenue 

for the full year 2011. In addition, revenue could continue to be 

negatively affected by continued elevated levels of repurchases of 

mortgages previously sold, predominantly to U.S. government-

sponsored entities (ﬁGSEsﬂ). Management estimates that realized 

repurchase losses could total approximately $1.2 billion in 2011. In 

addition, the Firm is dedicating significant resources to address, 

correct and enhance its mortgage loan foreclosure procedures and 

is cooperating with various state and federal investigations into its 

procedures. As a result, the Firm expects to incur additional costs 

and expenses in resolving these issues.  
In the Real Estate Portfolios business within RFS, management 
believes that, based on the current outlook for delinquencies and 

loss severity, it is possible that total quarterly net charge-offs could 

be approximately $1.2 billion during 2011. Given current 

origination and production levels, combined with management™s 

current estimate of portfolio runoff levels, the residential real estate 

portfolio is expected to decline by approximately 10% to 15% 

annually for the foreseeable future. The annual reductions in the 

residential real estate portfolio are expected to reduce net interest 

income in each period, including a reduction of approximately $700 

million in 2011 from the 2010 level; however, over time the 

reduction in net interest income is expected to be more than offset 

by an improvement in credit costs and lower expenses. As the 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
58
portfolio continues to run off, management anticipates that 
approximately $1.0 billion of capital may become available for 

redeployment each year, subject to the capital requirements 

associated with the remaining portfolio. 
Also, in RFS, management expects noninterest expense in 2011 to 
remain modestly above 2010 levels, reflecting investments in new 

branch builds and sales force hires, as well as continued elevated 

servicing-, default- and foreclosed asset-related costs. 
In CS, management expects end-of-period outstandings for the Chase 
portfolio (excluding the Washington Mutual portfolio) to continue to 

decline in 2011. This decline may be as much as $10 billion in the 

first quarter, reflecting both continued portfolio run-off and seasonal 

activity. The decline in the Chase portfolio is expected to bottom out 

in the third quarter of 2011, and by the end of 2011, outstandings in 

the portfolio are anticipated to be approximately $120 billion and 

reflect a better mix of customers. The Washington Mutual portfolio 

declined to approximately $14 billion at the end of 2010, from $20 

billion at the end of 2009. Management estimates that the 

Washington Mutual portfolio could decline to $10 billion by the end 

of 2011. The effect of such reductions in the Chase and Washington 

Mutual portfolios is expected to reduce 2011 net interest income in 

CS by approximately $1.4 billion from the 2010 level. 
The net charge-off rates for both the Chase and Washington 
Mutual credit card portfolios are anticipated to continue to 

improve. If current delinquency trends continue, the net charge-off 

rate for the Chase portfolio (excluding the Washington Mutual 

portfolio) could be below 6.5% in the first quarter of 2011.  
Despite these positive economic trends, results for RFS and CS will 
depend on the economic environment. Although the positive 

economic data seen in 2010 seemed to imply that the U.S. 

economy was not falling back into recession, high unemployment 

rates and the difficult housing market have been persistent. Even as 

consumer lending net charge-offs and delinquencies have 

improved, the consumer credit portfolio remains under stress. 

Further declines in U.S. housing prices and increases in the 

unemployment rate remain possible; if this were to occur, results 

for both RFS and CS could be adversely affected. 
In IB, TSS and AM, revenue will be affected by market levels, 

volumes and volatility, which will influence client flows and assets 

under management, supervision and custody. In addition, IB and 

CB results will continue to be affected by the credit environment, 

which will influence levels of charge-offs, repayments and provision 

for credit losses. 
In Private Equity (within the Corporate/Private Equity segment), 
earnings will likely continue to be volatile and be influenced by 

capital markets activity, market levels, the performance of the 

broader economy and investment-specific issues. Corporate™s net 

interest income levels will generally trend with the size and 

duration of the investment securities portfolio. Corporate net 

income (excluding Private Equity, and excluding merger-related 

items, material litigation expenses and significant nonrecurring 

items, if any) is anticipated to trend toward a level of approximately 

$300 million per quarter.  
Furthermore, continued repositioning of the investment securities 
portfolio in Corporate could result in modest downward pressure 

on the Firm™s net interest margin in the first quarter of 2011.  
Regarding regulatory reform, JPMorgan Chase intends to continue 
to work with the Firm™s regulators as they proceed with the 

extensive rulemaking required to implement financial reform. The 

Firm will continue to devote substantial resources to achieving 

implementation of regulatory reforms in a way that preserves the 

value the Firm delivers to its clients. 
Management and the Firm™s Board of Directors continually evaluate 
ways to deploy the Firm™s strong capital base in order to enhance 

shareholder value. Such alternatives could include the repurchase of 

common stock, increasing the common stock dividend and pursuing 

alternative investment opportunities. Management and the Board 

will continue to assess and make decisions regarding these 

alternatives, as appropriate, over the course of the year.  
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 59
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
This following section provides a comparative discussion of 
JPMorgan Chase™s Consolidated Results of Operations on a 
reported basis for the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. 
Factors that related primarily to a single business segment are 
discussed in more detail within that business segment. For a 
discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates used by the Firm 
that affect the Consolidated Results of Operations, see pages 149Œ
154 of this Annual Report.  
Revenue  
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
2010
20092008 
Investment banking fees 
$6,190
   $    7,087
$   5,526 
 Principal transactions 
10,894
9,796 (10,699) 
Lending- and deposit-related fees 
6,340
7,0455,088 
Asset management, admin
istration
    and commissions 
13,499
12,54013,943 
Securities gains  
2,965
1,1101,560 
Mortgage fees and related income 
3,870
3,6783,467 
Credit card income 
5,891
7,1107,419 
Other income 
2,044
9162,169 
Noninterest revenue
 51,693
49,28228,473 
Net interest income 
51,001
51,15238,779 
Total net revenue
 $102,694
$100,434$ 67,252 
 2010 compared with 2009 

Total net revenue for 2010 was $102.7 billion, up by $2.3 billion, 

or 2%, from 2009. Results for 2010 were driven by a higher level 

of securities gains and private equity gains in Corporate/Private 

Equity, higher asset management fees in AM and administration 

fees in TSS, and higher other income in several businesses, partially 

offset by lower credit card income. 
Investment banking fees decreased from 2009 due to lower 
equity underwriting and advisory fees, partially offset by higher 

debt underwriting fees. Competitive markets combined with flat 

industry-wide equity underwriting and completed M&A volumes, 

resulted in lower equity underwriting and advisory fees; while 

strong industry-wide loan syndication and high-yield bond 

volumes drove record debt underwriting fees in IB. For additional 

information on investment banking fees, which are primarily 

recorded in IB, see IB segment results on pages 69Œ71 of this  

Annual Report. 
Principal transactions revenue, which consists of revenue from the 
Firm™s trading and private equity investing activities, increased 

compared with 2009. This was driven by the Private Equity 

business, which had significant private equity gains in 2010, 

compared with a small loss in 2009, reflecting improvements in 

market conditions. Trading revenue decreased, reflecting lower 

results in Corporate, offset by higher revenue in IB primarily 

reflecting gains from the widening of the Firm™s credit spread on 

certain structured and derivative liabilities. For additional 

information on principal transactions revenue, see IB and 

Corporate/Private Equity segment results on pages 69Œ71 and 89Œ
90, respectively, and Note 7 on pages 199Œ200 of this Annual 

Report. 
Lending- and deposit-related fees decreased in 2010 from 2009 
levels, reflecting lower deposit-related fees in RFS associated, in 

part, with newly-enacted legislation related to non-sufficient funds 

and overdraft fees; this was partially offset by higher lending-

related service fees in IB, primarily from growth in business volume, 

and in CB,
 primarily from higher commitment and letter-of-credit
 fees. For additional information on lending- and deposit-related 

fees, which are mostly recorded in IB, RFS, CB and TSS, see 

segment results for IB on pages 69Œ71, RFS on pages 72Œ78, CB 

on pages 82Œ83 and TSS on pages 84Œ85 of this Annual Report. 
Asset management, administration and commissions revenue 
increased from 2009. The increase largely reflected higher asset 

management fees in AM, driven by the effect of higher market 

levels, net inflows to products with higher margins and higher 

performance fees; and higher administration fees in TSS, reflecting 

the effects of higher market levels and net inflows of assets under 

custody. This increase was partially offset by lower brokerage 

commissions in IB, as a result of lower market volumes. For 

additional information on these fees and commissions, see the 

segment discussions for AM on pages 86Œ88 and TSS on pages 

84Œ85 of this Annual Report. 
Securities gains were significantly higher in 2010 compared with 
2009, resulting primarily from the repositioning of the portfolio in 

response to changes in the interest rate environment and to 

rebalance exposure. For additional information on securities gains, 

which are mostly recorded in the Firm™s Corporate segment, see the 

Corporate/Private Equity segment discussion on pages 89Œ90 of 

this Annual Report. 
Mortgage fees and related income increased in 2010 compared 
with 2009, driven by higher mortgage production revenue, 

reflecting increased mortgage origination volumes in RFS and AM, 

and wider margins, particularly in RFS. This increase was largely 

offset by higher repurchase losses in RFS (recorded as contra-

revenue), which were attributable to higher estimated losses 

related to repurchase demands, predominantly from GSEs. For 

additional information on mortgage fees and related income, which 

is recorded primarily in RFS, see RFS™s Mortgage Banking, Auto & 

Other Consumer Lending discussion on pages 74Œ77 of this Annual 

Report. For additional information on repurchase losses, see the 

repurchase liability discussion on pages 98Œ101 and Note 30 on 

pages 275Œ280 of this Annual Report. 
Credit card income decreased during 2010, predominantly due to 
the impact of the accounting guidance related to VIEs, effective 

January 1, 2010, that required the Firm to consolidate the assets 

and liabilities of its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts. 

Adoption of the new guidance resulted in the elimination of all 

servicing fees received from Firm-sponsored credit card 

securitization trusts (which was offset by related increases in net 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
60
interest income and the provision for credit losses, and the 
elimination of securitization income/(losses) in other income). 

Lower income from other fee-based products also contributed to 

the decrease in credit card income. Excluding the impact of the 

adoption of the new accounting guidance, credit card income 

increased in 2010, reflecting higher customer charge volume on 

credit and debit cards. For a more detailed discussion of the impact 

of the adoption of the new accounting guidance on the 

Consolidated Statements of Income, see Explanation and 

Reconciliation of the Firm™s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

on pages 64Œ66 of this Annual Report. For additional information 

on credit card income, see the CS and RFS segment results on 

pages 79Œ81, and pages 72Œ78, respectively, of this Annual 

Report.  
Other income increased in 2010, largely due to the write-down of 
securitization interests during 2009 and higher auto operating 

lease income in RFS. 
Net interest income was relatively flat in 2010 compared with 
2009. The effect of lower loan balances was predominantly offset 

by the effect of the adoption of the new accounting guidance 

related to VIEs (which increased net interest income by 

approximately $5.8 billion in 2010). Excluding the impact of the 

adoption of the new accounting guidance, net interest income 

decreased, driven by lower average loan balances, primarily in 

CS, RFS and IB, reflecting the continued runoff of the credit card 

balances and residential real estate loans, and net repayments 

and loan sales; lower yields and fees on credit card receivables, 

reflecting the impact of legislative changes; and lower yields on 

securities in Corporate resulting from investment portfolio 

repositioning. The Firm™s average interest-earning assets were 

$1.7 trillion in 2010, and the net yield on those assets, on a FTE 

basis, was 3.06%, a decrease of 6 basis points from 2009. For a 

more detailed discussion of the impact of the adoption of the 

new accounting guidance related to VIEs on the Consolidated 

Statements of Income, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the 

Firm™s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 64Œ66 of 

this Annual Report. For further information on the impact of the 

legislative changes on the Consolidated Statements of Income, 

see CS discussion on Credit Card Legislation on page 79 of this 

Annual Report. 
2009 compared with 2008 
 Total net revenue was $100.4 billion, up by $33.2 billion, or 49%, 

from the prior year. The increase was driven by higher principal 

transactions revenue, primarily related to improved performance 

across most fixed income and equity products, and the absence of 

net markdowns on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage 

positions in IB, as well as higher levels of trading gains and 

investment securities income in Corporate/Private Equity. Results 

also benefited from the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction, which contributed to increases in net interest income, 

lending- and deposit-related fees, and mortgage fees and related 

income. Lastly, higher investment banking fees also contributed to 

revenue growth. These increases in revenue were offset partially by 

reduced fees and commissions from the effect of lower market 

levels on assets under management and custody, and the absence 

of proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initial public offering 

in the first quarter of 2008. 
Investment banking fees increased from the prior year, due to 
higher equity and debt underwriting fees. For a further discussion 

of investment banking fees, which are primarily recorded in IB, see 

IB segment results on pages 69Œ71 of this Annual Report. 
Principal transactions revenue, which consists of revenue from 
trading and private equity investing activities, was significantly 

higher compared with the prior year. Trading revenue increased, 

driven by improved performance across most fixed income and 

equity products; modest net gains on legacy leveraged lending and 

mortgage-related positions, compared with net markdowns of 

$10.6 billion in the prior year; and gains on trading positions in 

Corporate/Private Equity, compared with losses in the prior year of 

$1.1 billion on markdowns of Federal National Mortgage 

Association (ﬁFannie Maeﬂ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage 

Corporation (ﬁFreddie Macﬂ) preferred securities. These increases 

in revenue were offset partially by an aggregate loss of $2.3 billion 

from the tightening of the Firm™s credit spread on certain structured 

liabilities and derivatives, compared with gains of $2.0 billion in the 

prior year from widening spreads on these liabilities and 

derivatives. The Firm™s private equity investments produced a slight 

net loss in 2009, a significant improvement from a larger net loss in 

2008. For a further discussion of principal transactions revenue, see 

IB and Corporate/Private Equity segment results on pages 69Œ71 

and 89Œ90, respectively, and Note 7 on pages 199Œ200 of this 

Annual Report. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 61
Lending- and deposit-related fees rose from the prior year, 
predominantly reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction and organic growth in both lending- and deposit-

related fees in RFS, CB, IB and TSS. For a further discussion of 

lending- and deposit-related fees, which are mostly recorded in 

RFS, TSS and CB, see the RFS segment results on pages 72Œ78, the 

TSS segment results on pages 84Œ85, and the CB segment results 

on pages 82Œ83 of this Annual Report. 
The decline in asset management, administration and commissions 
revenue compared with the prior year was largely due to lower 

asset management fees in AM from the effect of lower market 

levels. Also contributing to the decrease were lower administration 

fees in TSS, driven by the effect of market depreciation on certain 

custody assets and lower securities lending balances; and lower 

brokerage commissions revenue in IB, predominantly related to 

lower transaction volume. For additional information on these fees 

and commissions, see the segment discussions for TSS and AM on 

pages 84Œ85 and pages 86Œ88, respectively, of this Annual Report. 
Securities gains were lower in 2009 and included credit losses 
related to other-than-temporary impairment and lower gains on 

the sale of MasterCard shares totaling $241 million in 2009, 

compared with $668 million in 2008. These decreases were 

offset partially by higher gains from repositioning the Corporate 

investment securities portfolio in connection with managing the 

Firm™s structural interest rate risk. For a further discussion of 

securities gains, which are mostly recorded in Corporate/Private 

Equity, see the Corporate/Private Equity segment discussion on 

pages 89Œ90 of this Annual Report. 
Mortgage fees and related income increased slightly from the prior 
year, as higher net mortgage servicing revenue was largely offset by 

lower production revenue. The increase in net mortgage servicing 

revenue was driven by growth in average third-party loans serviced 

as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction. Mortgage 

production revenue declined from the prior year, reflecting an 

increase in estimated losses from the repurchase of previously-sold 

loans, offset partially by wider margins on new originations. For a 

discussion of mortgage fees and related income, which is recorded 

primarily in RFS, see RFS™s Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other 

Consumer Lending discussion on pages 74Œ77 of this Annual 

Report. 
Credit card income, which includes the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction, decreased slightly compared with the prior 

year, due to lower servicing fees earned in connection with CS 

securitization activities, largely as a result of higher credit losses. 

The decrease was partially offset by wider loan margins on 

securitized credit card loans; higher merchant servicing revenue 

related to the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint 

venture; and higher interchange income. For a further discussion of 

credit card income, see the CS segment results on pages 79Œ81 of 

this Annual Report. 
Other income decreased from the prior year, due predominantly 
to the absence of $1.5 billion in proceeds from the sale of Visa 

shares as part of its initial public offering in the first quarter of 

2008; a $1.0 billion gain on the dissolution of the Chase 

Paymentech Solutions joint venture in the fourth quarter of 2008; 

and lower net securitization income in CS. These items were 

partially offset by a $464 million charge recognized in 2008 

related to the repurchase of auction-rate securities at par; the 

absence of a $423 million loss incurred in the second quarter of 

2008, reflecting the Firm™s 49.4% share of Bear Stearns™s losses 

from April 8 to May 30, 2008; and higher valuations on certain 

investments, including seed capital in AM. 
Net interest income increased from the prior year, driven by the 
Washington Mutual transaction, which contributed to higher 

average loans and deposits. The Firm™s interest-earning assets were 

$1.7 trillion, and the net yield on those assets, on a fully taxable-

equivalent (ﬁFTEﬂ) basis, was 3.12%, an increase of 25 basis 

points from 2008. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction, the increase in net interest income in 2009 was driven 

by a higher level of investment securities, as well as a wider net 

interest margin, which reflected the overall decline in market 

interest rates during the year. Declining interest rates had a positive 

effect on the net interest margin, as rates paid on the Firm™s 

interest-bearing liabilities decreased faster relative to the decline in 

rates earned on interest-earning assets. These increases in net 

interest income were offset partially by lower loan balances, which 

included the effect of lower customer demand, repayments and 

charge-offs. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
62
Provision for credit losses 
Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
 2010
       2009      2008
Wholesale  
 $ (850
)    $   3,974     $   3,327
Consumer, excluding credit card
(a)
 9,452 
 16,022  10,610
Credit card
(a)
 8,037 
 12,019  7,042
Total provision for credit losses
   
 $16,639
    $ 32,015     $ 20,979
(a)
 Includes adjustments to the provision for credit losses recognized in the 
Corporate/Private Equity segment related to the Washington Mutual 
transaction in 2008. 
2010 compared with 2009 
 The provision for credit losses declined by $15.4 billion compared 
with 2009, due to decreases in both the consumer and wholesale 
provisions. The decreases in the consumer provisions reflected 

reductions in the allowance for credit losses for mortgages and 

credit cards as a result of improved delinquency trends and lower 

estimated losses. This was partially offset by an increase in the 

allowance for credit losses associated with the Washington Mutual 

purchased credit-impaired loans portfolio, resulting from increased 

estimated future credit losses. The decrease in the wholesale 

provision in 2010 reflected a reduction in the allowance for credit 

losses, predominantly as a result of continued improvement in the 

credit quality of the commercial and industrial loan portfolio, 

reduced net charge-offs, and net repayments and loan sales. For a 

more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the allowance for 

credit losses, see the segment discussions for RFS on pages 72Œ78, 

CS on pages 79Œ81, IB on pages 69Œ71 and CB on pages 82Œ83, 

and the Allowance for Credit Losses section on pages 139Œ141 of 

this Annual Report. 
2009 compared with 2008  
The provision for credit losses in 2009 rose by $11.0 billion 

compared with the prior year, predominantly due to a significant 

increase in the consumer provision. The prior year included a  

$1.5 billion charge to conform Washington Mutual™s allowance for 

loan losses, which affected both the consumer and wholesale 

portfolios. For the purpose of the following analysis, this charge is 

excluded. The consumer provision reflected additions to the 

allowance for loan losses for the home equity, mortgage and credit 

card portfolios, as weak economic conditions, housing price 

declines and higher unemployment rates continued to drive higher 

estimated losses for these portfolios. Included in the 2009 addition 

to the allowance for loan losses was a $1.6 billion provision related 

to estimated deterioration in the Washington Mutual purchased 

credit-impaired portfolio. The wholesale provision increased from 

the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the credit 

environment in 2009 compared with the prior year. For a more 

detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the allowance for loan 

losses, see the segment discussions for RFS on pages 72Œ78, CS on 

pages 79Œ81, IB on pages 69Œ71 and CB on pages 82Œ83, and the 

Allowance for Credit Losses section on pages 139Œ141 of this 

Annual Report. 
Noninterest expense 
Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
 2010
  2009     2008
Compensation expense
(a)
 $ 28,124 
$ 26,928  $ 
22,746 
Noncompensation expense: 
  Occupancy expense 
 3,681
  3,666  3,038
Technology, communic
ations 
    and equipment  
 4,684
  4,624  4,315
Professional and outside services
  6,767
  6,232  6,053
Marketing 
 2,446
  1,777  1,913
Other expense
(b)(c)(d)
  14,558
  7,594  3,740
     Amortization of intangibles 
 936
  1,050  1,263
Total noncompensation e
xpense
  33,072
  24,943  20,322
Merger costs 
 Š  481  432
Total noninterest e
xpense
 $ 61,196
 $ 52,352  $ 43,500
(a)
 Expense for 2010 included a payroll tax expense related to the U.K. Bank 
Payroll Tax on certain compensation awarded from December 9, 2009, to 

April 5, 2010, to relevant banking employees. 
(b)
 In 2010, 2009 and 2008, included litigation expense of $7.4 billion, $161 

million and a net benefit of $781 million, respectively. 
(c)
 In 2010, 2009 and 2008, included foreclosed property expense of $1.0 
billion, $1.4 billion and $213 million, respectively. For additional information 
regarding foreclosed property, see Note 11 on page 213 of this Annual 

Report. 
(d)
 Expense for 2009 included a $675 million FDIC special assessment. 
2010 compared with 2009 
 Total noninterest expense for 2010 was $61.2 billion, up by  
$8.8 billion, or 17%, from 2009. The increase was driven by higher 
noncompensation expense, largely due to higher litigation expense, 

and the effect of investments in the businesses. 
Compensation expense increased from the prior year, predominantly 
due to higher salary expense related to investments in the 

businesses, including additional sales staff in RFS and client 

advisors in AM, and the impact of the U.K. Bank Payroll Tax.  
In addition to the aforementioned higher litigation expense, which 
was largely for mortgage-related matters in Corporate and IB, the 

increase in noncompensation expense was driven by higher 

marketing expense in CS; higher professional services expense,  

due to continued investments in new product platforms in the 

businesses, including those related to international expansion; 

higher default-related expense, including costs associated with 

foreclosure affidavit-related suspensions (recorded in other 

expense), for the serviced portfolio in RFS; and higher brokerage, 

clearing and exchange transaction processing expense in IB. 

Partially offsetting these increases was the absence of a $675 

million FDIC special assessment recognized in 2009. For a further 

discussion of litigation expense, see the Litigation reserve 

discussion in Note 32 pages 282Œ289 of this Annual Report. For a 

discussion of amortization of intangibles, refer to Note 17 on pages 

260Œ263 of this Annual Report.  
There were no merger costs recorded in 2010, compared with 
merger costs of $481 million in 2009. For additional information on 

merger costs, refer to Note 11 on page 213 of this Annual Report. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 63
2009 compared with 2008  
Total noninterest expense was $52.4 billion, up by $8.9 billion, or 

20%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of 

the Washington Mutual transaction, higher performance-based 

compensation expense, higher FDIC-related costs, and increased 

mortgage servicing and default-related expense. These items were 

offset partially by lower headcount-related expense, including 

salary and benefits but excluding performance-based incentives, 

and other noncompensation costs related to employees. 
Compensation expense increased in 2009 compared with the prior 
year, reflecting higher performance-based incentives, as well as the 

impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Excluding these two 

items, compensation expense decreased as a result of a reduction in 

headcount, particularly in the wholesale businesses and in Corporate. 
Noncompensation expense increased from the prior year, due 
predominantly to the following: the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction; higher ongoing FDIC insurance premiums and 

an FDIC special assessment of $675 million recognized in the 

second quarter of 2009; higher mortgage servicing and default-

related expense, which included an increase in foreclosed property 

expense of $1.2 billion; higher litigation costs; and the effect of the 

dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture. These 

increases were partially offset by lower headcount-related expense, 

particularly in IB, TSS and AM; a decrease in amortization of 

intangibles, predominantly related to purchased credit card 

relationships; lower mortgage reinsurance losses; and a decrease in 

credit card marketing expense. For a discussion of amortization of 

intangibles, refer to Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of this Annual 

Report. 
For information on merger costs, refer to Note 11 on page 213 of 
this Annual Report. 
Income tax expense 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except rate) 
       2010 
       2009      
2008
 Income before income tax expense/ 
(benefit) and extraordinary gain 
 $ 24,859 
 $ 16,067  $ 
2,773 
 Income tax expense/(benefit)  
 7,489
  4,415       
(926
) 
Effective tax rate  
   
30.1%
  27.5%
  (33.4
)%
 2010 compared with 2009 
 The increase in the effective tax rate compared with the prior year 

was primarily the result of higher reported pretax book income, as 

well as changes in the proportion of income subject to U.S. federal 

and state and local taxes. These increases were partially offset by 

increased benefits associated with the undistributed earnings of 

certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were deemed to be reinvested 

indefinitely, as well as tax benefits recognized upon the resolution 

of tax audits in 2010. For additional information on income taxes, 

see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 149Œ

154 and Note 27 on pages 271Œ273 of this Annual Report.
 2009 compared with 2008  

The change in the effective tax rate compared with the prior year 
was primarily the result of higher reported pretax income and 

changes in the proportion of income subject to U.S. federal, state 

and local taxes. Benefits related to tax-exempt income, business tax 

credits and tax audit settlements increased in 2009 relative to 

2008; however, the impact of these items on the effective tax rate 

was reduced by the significantly higher level of pretax income in 

2009. In addition, 2008 reflected the realization of benefits of $1.1 

billion from the release of deferred tax liabilities associated with the 

undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were 

deemed to be reinvested indefinitely.  
Extraordinary gain  
On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the b
anking 
operations of Washington Mutual. This transaction was accounted 
for under the purchase method of accounting for business 

combinations. The adjusted net asset value of the banking 

operations after purchase accounting adjustments was higher than 

the consideration paid by JPMorgan Chase, resulting in an 

extraordinary gain. The preliminary gain recognized in 2008 was 

$1.9 billion. In the third quarter of 2009, the Firm recognized an 

additional $76 million extraordinary gain associated with the final 

purchase accounting adjustments for the acquisition. For a further 

discussion of the Washington Mutual transaction, see Note 2 on 

pages 166Œ170 of the Firm™s 2009 Annual Report.

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
64
EXPLANATION AND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM™S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES  
The Firm prepares its consolidated financial statements using 
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (ﬁU.S. GAAPﬂ); 
these financial statements appear on pages 160Œ163 of this 
Annual Report. That presentation, which is referred to as ﬁreported 

basis,ﬂ provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm™s 

results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and 

enables a comparison of the Firm™s performance with other 
companies™ U.S. GAAP financial statements. 
In addition to analyzing the Firm™s results on a reported basis, 
management reviews the Firm™s results and the results of the lines 
of business on a ﬁmanagedﬂ basis, which is a non-GAAP financial 
measure. The Firm™s definition of managed basis starts with the 

reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications to 

present total net revenue for the Firm (and each of the business 

segments) on a FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt 

securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in 
the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities 
and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows 

management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from 

both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income 
tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax 

expense. These adjustments have no impact on net income as 

reported by the Firm as a whole or by the lines of business.  
Prior to January 1, 2010, the Firm™s managed-basis presentation also 
included certain reclassification adjustments that assumed credit card 
loans securitized by CS remained on the balance sheet. Effective 

January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance that required 

the Firm to consolidate its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization 

trusts. The income, expense and credit costs associated with these 

securitization activities are now recorded in the 2010 Consolidated 
Statements of Income in the same classifications that were previously 
used to report such items on a managed basis. As a result of the 

consolidation of the credit card securitization trusts, reported and 

managed basis relating to credit card securitizations are equivalent 

for periods beginning after January 1, 2010. For additional 

information on the accounting guidance, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ

259 of this Annual Report. 
The presentation in 2009 and 2008 of CS results on a managed basis 
assumed that credit card loans that had been securitized and sold in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP remained on the Consolidated Balance
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm™s reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis. 
  (Table continues on next page) 
 2010 
    
2009
 Year ended December 31, 
Reported Credit  
Fully tax
-equivalent 
Managed Reported Credit 
Fully tax
-equivalent 
 Managed
  (in millions, except per share and ratio data) results card(c) adjustments 
basis results card(c) adjustments 
 basis
  Revenue 
  
       Investment banking fees 
$ 6,190          NA   $       Š 
$ 6,190 
$ 7,087   $        Š   $     Š 
$ 7,087
 Principal transactions 
 10,894 NA Š 
 10,894 
 9,796 Š Š 
 9,796
 Lending- and deposit-related fees
  6,340 NA Š 
 6,340 
 7,045 Š Š 
 7,045
 Asset management, admin
istration  
 and commissions 
 13,499 NA Š 
 13,499 
 12,540 Š Š 
 12,540
 Securities gains 
 2,965 NA Š 
 2,965 
 1,110 Š Š 
 1,110
 Mortgage fees and related income 
 3,870 NA Š 
 3,870 
 3,678 Š Š 
 3,678
 Credit card income 
 5,891 NA Š 
 5,891 
 7,110 (1,494) Š 
 5,616
 Other income 
 2,044 NA 1,745 
 3,789 
 916 Š 1,440 
 2,356
 Noninterest revenue  51,693 NA 1,745 
 53,438 
 49,282 (1,494) 1,440 
 49,228
 Net interest income 
 51,001 NA 403 
 51,404 
 51,152 7,937 330 
 59,419
 Total net revenue  102,694 NA 2,148 
 104,842 
 100,434 6,443 1,770 
 108,647
 Noninterest expense 
 61,196 NA Š 
 61,196 
 52,352 Š Š 
 52,352
 Pre-provision profit 
 41,498 NA 2,148 
 43,646 
 48,082 6,443 1,770 
 56,295
 Provision for credit losses
  16,639 NA Š 
 16,639 
 32,015 6,443 Š 
 38,458
 Provision for credit losses 
Œ accoun
ting 
 conformity
(a)
  Š NA Š 
 Š 
 Š Š Š 
 Š
 Income before income tax expe
nse/
 (benefit) and extraordinary gain  24,859 NA 2,148 
 27,007 
 16,067 Š 1,770 
 17,837
 Income tax expense/(benefit) 
 7,489 NA 2,148 
 9,637 
 4,415 Š 1,770 
 6,185
 Income before extraordinary gain  17,370 NA Š 
 17,370 
 11,652 Š Š 
 11,652
 Extraordinary gain
  Š NA Š 
 Š 
 76 Š Š 
 76
 Net income
 $ 17,370          NA  $ Š 
$ 17,370 
$ 11,728  $        Š  $     Š 
$ 11,728
 Diluted earnings per share
(b)
 $     3.96       NA  $     Š 
$     3.96 
$ 2.24  $        Š  $     Š 
$ 2.24
 Return on assets
(b)  0.85%
   NA  NM 
  0.85%
      0.58% NM NM 
           0.55
% Overhead ratio 
60   NA NM 
58 
 52 NM NM 
 48
 Loans Œ period-end 
$ 692,927   NA  $ Š 
$ 692,927 
$  633,458  $ 84,626   $     Š 
$  718,084
 Total assets Œ average 
2,053,251  NA Š 
2,053,251 
 2,024,201 82,233 Š 
 2,106,434
 (a)
 2008 included an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual™s banking operations. 
(b)
 Based on income before extraordinary gain. 
(c)
 See pages 79Œ81 of this Annual Report for a discussion of the effect of credit card securitizations on CS results.  
NA: Not applicable 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 65
Sheets, and that the earnings on the securitized loans were classified 
in the same manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets. JPMorgan Chase had used this 

managed-basis information to evaluate the credit performance and 

overall financial performance of the entire managed credit card 
portfolio. Operations were funded and decisions were made about 
allocating resources, such as employees and capital, based on 

managed financial information. In addition, the same underwriting 

standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both loans on the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets and securitized loans. Although 

securitizations result in the sale of credit card receivables to a trust, 
JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoing customer relationships, as the 
customers may continue to use their credit cards; accordingly, the 

customer™s credit performance affects both the securitized loans and 

the loans retained on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. JPMorgan 

Chase believed that this managed-basis information was useful to 

investors, as it enabled them to understand both the credit risks 
associated with the loans reported on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets and the Firm™s retained interests in securitized loans. For a 

reconciliation of 2009 and 2008 reported to managed basis results 

for CS, see CS segment results on pages 79Œ81 of this Annual 
Report. For information regarding the securitization process, and 

loans and residual interests sold and securitized, see Note 16 on 
pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report.
 Tangible common equity (ﬁTCEﬂ) represents common stockholders™ 
equity (i.e., total stockholders™ equity less preferred stock) less 
identifiable intangible assets (other than mortgage servicing rights 

(ﬁMSRsﬂ)) and goodwill, net of related deferred tax liabilities. 
ROTCE, a non-GAAP financial ratio, measures the Firm™s earnings 
as a percentage of TCE and is, in management™s view, a 
meaningful measure to assess the Firm™s use of equity.  
Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the 
business-segment level, because it believes these other non-GAAP 

financial measures provide information to investors about the 

underlying operational performance and trends of the particular 

business segment and, therefore, facilitate a comparison of the 
business segment with the performance of its competitors. Non-
GAAP financial measures used by the Firm may not be comparable 

to similarly named non-GAAP financial measures used by other 
companies. 
 (Table continued from previous page) 
 2008 
 Reported Credit 
Fully tax
- equivalent 
Managed
 results card
(c) adjustments 
basis
    
     $ 5,526  $ Š   $     Š 
$      5,526
 (10,699) Š 
Š (10,699
) 
5,088 Š 
Š 5,088
 13,943 Š 
Š 13,943
 1,560 Š 
Š 1,560
 3,467 Š 
Š 3,467
 7,419 (3,333) 
Š 4,086
 2,169 Š 1,329 
3,498
 28,473 (3,333) 1,329 
26,469
 38,779 6,945 
579 
46,303
 67,252 3,612 1,908 
72,772
 43,500 Š 
Š 43,500
 23,752 3,612 1,908 
29,272
 19,445 3,612 
Š 23,057
     1,534 Š 
Š 1,534
    
 2,773 Š 1,908 
4,681
 (926) Š 1,908 
982
 3,699 Š 
Š 3,699
 1,906 Š 
Š 1,906
  $ 5,605  $ Š  $     Š 
$       5,605
  $ 0.81  $ Š  $     Š 
$         0.81
    0.21% NM 
NM 
            0.20
%  65 NM 
NM 
60
  $ 744,898  $  85,571   $     Š 
$   830,469
  1,791,617 76,904 
Š 1,868,521
   Calculation of certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP metrics
 The table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both the  
following U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP measures. 
Return on common equity 
Net income* / Average common stockholders™ equity 
Return on tangible common equity
(d)
 Net income* / Average tangible common equity 
Return on assets 
Reported net income / Total average assets 
Managed net income / Total average managed assets
(e)
  
  (including average securitized credit card receivables) 
Overhead ratio 
Total noninterest expense / Total net revenue 
* Represents net income applicable to common equity 
(d) The Firm uses ROTCE, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate its 
use of equity and to facilitate comparisons with competitors.  
Refer to the following page for the calculation of average tangible 
common equity. 
(e) The Firm uses return on managed assets, a non-GAAP financial measure, to 
evaluate the overall performance of the managed credit card portfolio,  
including securitized credit card loans.
   
  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
66
Average tangible common equity 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions)
 2010
20092008
Common stockholders™ equity 
$ 161,520
$ 145,903$ 129,116
Less: Goodwill 
   
48,61
8   48,254   46,068
Less: Certain identifiable 
 intangible assets 
    4,178
    5,095    5,779
Add: Deferred tax liabilities
(a)
     2,587
    2,547    2,369
Tangible 
Common 
Equity
 $ 111,3
11
$   95,101$   79,638
(a) Represents deferred tax liabilities related to tax-deductible goodwill and to 
identifiable intangibles created in non-taxable transactions, which are netted 
against goodwill and other intangibles when calculating TCE. 
Impact of TARP preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 
The calculation of 2009 net income applicable to common equity 
included a one-time, noncash reduction of $1.1 billion resulting 

from the repayment of TARP preferred capital. Excluding this 

reduction, ROE would have been 7% for 2009. The Firm views 

adjusted ROE, a non-GAAP financial measure, as meaningful 

because it enables the comparability to prior periods.  
Year ended 
December 31, 20
09
 (in millions, except ratios) 
 As reported 
 Excluding the 
  TARP redemption
  Return on equity 
   Net income  
 $ 11,728    $ 11,728
  Less: Preferred stock dividends   1,327   1,327
  Less: 
Accelerated amort
ization 
from redemption of preferred 
stock issued to the U.S. 
Treasury    1,112   Š
  Net income applicable to 
common equity 
  9,289      10,401
  Average common stockhol
ders™ 
equity 
 $ 145,903 
$ 145,903
  ROE 
   6%          7
 % 
 In addition, the calculated net income applicable to
 common equity for the 
year ended December 31, 2009, was also affected by the TARP repayment. 
The following table presents the effect on net income applicable to common 

stockholders and the $0.27 reduction to diluted earnings per share (ﬁEPSﬂ) 

for the year ended December 31, 2009.  
Year ended 
December 31, 200
9 (in millions, except per share) As reported 
 Effect of 
  TARP redemption
  Diluted earnings per share 
   
Net income  
  $  11,728 
$         Š
  Less: Preferred stock dividends   1,327 
Š  Less: Accelerated amortiz
ation 
from redemption of preferred 
stock issued to the U.S. Treasury    1,112 
1,112
  Net income applicable to 
common equity 
      9,289 
   (1,112
 ) 
Less:  Dividends and undistr
ibuted 
earnings allocated to participating 
securities 
  515 
(62
 ) 
Net income applicable to 
common stockholders 
      8,774 
   (1,050
 ) 
Total weighted average diluted 
shares outstanding 
  3,879.7 
3,879.7
  Net income per share 
  $      2.26  $     (0.27
 ) 
 Other financial measures 
Th
e Firm also discloses the allowance for loan losses to total 
retained loans, excluding home lending purchased credit-impaired 
loans and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust 

(ﬁWMMTﬂ). For a further discussion of this credit metric, see 

Allowance for Credit Losses on pages 139Œ141 of this Annual 

Report. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 67
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS   
The Firm is managed on a line of business basis. The business 
segment financial results presented reflect the current organization 

of JPMorgan Chase. There are six major reportable business 

segments: Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, 

Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset 

Management, as well as a Corporate/Private Equity segment.  
The business segments are determined based on the products and 

services provided, or the type of customer served, and reflect the 

manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by 

management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a 

managed basis. 
   Description of business segment reporting methodology
  
Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment 

as if it were essentially a stand-alone business. The management 

reporting process that derives business segment results allocates 

income and expense using market-based methodologies. Business 

segment reporting methodologies used by the Firm are discussed 

below. The Firm continues to assess the assumptions, methodologies 

and reporting classifications used for segment reporting, and further 

refinements may be implemented in future periods.  
Revenue sharing  
When business segments join efforts to sell products and services 

to the Firm™s clients, the participating business segments agree to 

share revenue from those transactions. The segment results reflect 

these revenue-sharing agreements.  
Funds transfer pricing  
Funds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest income and 

expense to each business and transfer the primary interest rate risk 

exposures to the Treasury group within the Corporate/Private Equity 

business segment. The allocation process is unique to each 

business segment and considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk 

and regulatory requirements of that segment™s stand-alone peers. 

This process is overseen by senior management and reviewed by 

the Firm™s Asset-Liability Committee (ﬁALCOﬂ). Business segments 

may be permitted to retain certain interest rate exposures subject to 

management approval.  
      
JPMorgan Chase
       
                                    Investment 
Bank
  Retail  
Financial 
Services
  Card  
Services
   Commercial 
Banking
  Treasury & 
Securities 
Services
  Asset 
Management
             Businesses: 
Ł Investment 
   Banking 

   - Advisory 
   - Debt and equity
      underwriting 
Ł Market-making 
   and trading 
   - Fixed income 
   - Equities 
Ł Corporate lending
 Ł Prime Services 
Ł Research 
 Businesses: 
Ł Retail Banking 
    - Consumer and 
      Business  
      Banking (includ-
       ing Business  
      Banking loans) 
Ł Mortgage  

   Banking, Auto & 
   Other Consumer 
    Lending: 
   - Mortgage  
     production  
     and servicing 
   - Auto, student  
     and other loan  

     originations and
      balances 

Ł Real Estate  

   Portfolios: 
   - Residential 
     mortgage loans
    - Home equity 

     loans and 

     originations 
  Businesses: 
Ł Credit Card 
Ł Merchant 
   Acquiring
   Businesses: 
Ł Middle Market 
   Banking 
Ł Commercial Term
    Lending 

Ł Mid-Corporate 
   Banking 
Ł Real Estate 
   Banking 
 
 
   Businesses: 
Ł Treasury Services 
Ł Worldwide 
   Securities Services
  Businesses:
 Ł Private Banking 
Ł Investment 
   Management: 

   - Institutional 
   - Retail 
Ł Highbridge 
                               
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
68
Capital allocation  
Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into 
consideration stand-alone peer comparisons, economic risk 

measures and regulatory capital requirements. The amount of 

capital assigned to each business is referred to as equity. Effective 

January 1, 2010, the Firm enhanced its line-of-business equity 

framework to better align equity assigned to each line of business 

as a result of the changes anticipated to occur in the business, and 

in the competitive and regulatory landscape. The lines of business 

are now capitalized based on the Tier 1 common standard, rather 

than the Tier 1 capital standard. For a further discussion of the 

changes, see Capital Management Œ Line of business equity on 

page 105 of this Annual Report.  
Expense allocation  
Where business segments use services provided by support units 

within the Firm, the costs of those support units are allocated to 

the business segments. The expense is allocated based on their 

actual cost or the lower of actual cost or market, as well as upon 

usage of the services provided. In contrast, certain other expense 

related to certain corporate functions, or to certain technology and 

operations, are not allocated to the business segments and are 

retained in Corporate. Retained expense includes: parent company 

costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone 

businesses; adjustments to align certain corporate staff, technology 

and operations allocations with market prices; and other one-time 

items not aligned with a particular business segment.  
Segment results Œ Managed basis
(a)
 The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated.
 Year ended December 31,
 Total net revenue
  Noninterest expense
  (in millions) 
 2010
  2009  2008 
 2010
  2009  200
8 Investment Bank
(b)
  $ 26,217
  $ 28,109  $ 12,335 
 $ 17,265
  $ 15,401  $ 
13,844
 Retail Financial Services 
 31,756
   32,692    23,520 
17,864
 16,748   
12,077
 Card Services 
 17,163
   20,304    16,474 
5,797
 5,381   
5,140
 Commercial Banking 
 6,040
   5,720    4,777 
2,199
 2,176   
1,946
 Treasury & Securities Services 
 7,381
   7,344    8,134 
5,604
 5,278   
5,223
 Asset Management 
 8,984
   7,965    7,584 
6,112
 5,473   
5,298
 Corporate/Private Equity
(b)
  7,301
   6,513    (52) 
6,355
 1,895   
(28)
 Total
  
 $ 104,842
  $ 108,647  $ 72,772 
 $ 61,196
  $  52,352  $ 
43,500
  Year ended December 31, 
Pre-provision profit
(d)  Provision for credit losses  
(in millions) 
 2010
  2009  2008 
 2010
  2009  
2008
 Investment Bank
(b)
  $ 8,952
  $ 12,708  $ (1,509) 
 $ (1,200)
   $   2,279  $   
2,015
 Retail Financial Services 
 13,892
   15,944  11,443 
 9,45
2  15,940  
9,905
 Card Services 
 11,366
   14,923  11,334 
 8,037
  18,462  
10,059
 Commercial Banking 
 3,841
   3,544  2,831 
 29
7  1,454  
464
 Treasury & Securities Services 
 1,777
   2,066  2,911 
 (47)
  55  
82
 Asset Management 
 2,872
   2,492  2,286 
 86
  188  
85
 Corporate/Private Equity
(b)
  946
   4,618  (24) 
 14
  80  
1,981
 Total
  
 $ 
 43,646
  $  56,295  $  29,272 
 $ 
 16,639
   $ 38,458  $ 
24,591
  Year ended December 31,
 Net income
/(loss)
  Return on equity
  (in millions) 
 2010
  2009  2008 
 20
10
  2009 2008
  Investment Bank
(b)
  $ 6,639
  $ 6,899   $ (1,175) 
17
% 21%
(5
 )%
 Retail Financial Services 
 2,526
   97 
  880 
9 Š 5  Card Services 
 2,074
   (2,225) 
  780 
14
 (15) 
5  Commercial Banking 
 2,084
   1,271 
  1,439 
26
 16 
20
  Treasury & Securities Services 
 1,079
   1,226 
  1,767 
17
 25 
47
  Asset Management 
 1,710
   1,430 
  1,357 
26
 20 
24
  Corporate/Private Equity
(b)(
c)  1,258
   3,030 
  557 
NM 
NM NM
  Total
  
 $ 
 17,370
  $ 11,728 
   $ 5,605 
10%
 6%
4 % (a)
 Represents reported results on a tax-equivalent basis. The managed basis also assumes that credit card loans in Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts 
remained on the balance sheet for 2009 and 2008. Firm-sponsored credit card securitizations were consolidated at their carrying values on January 1, 2010, under the 
accounting guidance related to VIEs. 
(b)
 IB reports its credit reimbursement from TSS as a component of its total net revenue, whereas TSS reports its credit reimbursement to IB as a separate line item on its 

income statement (not part of total net revenue). Corporate/Private Equity includes an adjustment to offset IB's inclusion of the credit reimbursement in total net 
revenue. 
(c)
 Net income included an extraordinary gain of $76 million and $1.9 billion related to the Washington Mutual transaction for 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(d)
 Pre-provision profit is total net revenue less noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to 

generate income in excess of its provision for credit losses. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 69
INVESTMENT BANK 
J.P. Morgan is one of the world™s leading investment 
banks, with deep client relationships and broad product 
capabilities. The clients of IB are corporations, financial 
institutions, governments and institutional investors. The 
Firm offers a full range of investment banking products 
and services in all major capital markets, including 
advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital-
raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk 
management, market-making in cash securities and 
derivative instruments, prime brokerage, and research.
  Selected income statement data 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
 2010 
200
9 2008
(e)
 Revenue
   Investment banking fees  
$  
6,18
6  $  7,169
$ 5,907 
 Principal transactions
(a)
 8,454 
 8,154
 (7,042) 
Lending- and deposit-related fees  
819
  664
 463 
Asset management, admin
istration 
   and commissions 
2,413 
 2,650
 3,064 
All other income
(b)
  
381 
 (
115
) (341) 
Noninterest revenue 
 18,253
  18,522
 2,051 
Net interest income  
7,964
  9,587
 10,284 
 Total net revenue
(c)
  
26,217 
 28,109
 12,335 
 Provision for credit losses  
(1,200) 
 2,279
 2,015 
 Noninterest expense
    
Compensation expense  
9,727
  9,334
 7,701 
Noncompensation expense  
7,538
  6,067
 6,143 
Total noninterest e
xpense 
 17
,265
  15,401
 13,844 
Income/(loss) before i
ncome tax 
    expense/(benefit)  
10,152 
 10,429
 (3,524) 
Income tax expense/(benefit)
(d)
 3,513 
 3,530
 (2,349) 
Net income/(loss)
 $  
6,639
  $  6,899
 $ (1,175) 
Financial ratios 
     
ROE  
17
%  21
% (5 
)%
 ROA  
0.91
  0.99
 (0.14) 
Overhead ratio  
66
  55
 112 
Compensation expense as % of total 
   net revenue
(f)
 37 
 33
 62 
(a)
 The 2009 results reflect modest net gains on legacy leveraged lending and 
mortgage-related positions, compared with net markdowns of $10.6 billion in 2008. 
(b)
 TSS was charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed 
within IB™s credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS. IB recognizes this 
credit reimbursement in its credit portfolio business in all other income.  
(c)
 Total net revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments, predominantly due to income 
tax credits related to affordable housing and alternative energy investments as well 
as tax-exempt income from municipal bond investments of $1.7 billion, $1.4 billion 
and $1.7 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(d)
 The income tax benefit in 2008 includes the result of reduced deferred tax liabilities 
on overseas earnings.  
(e)
 Results for 2008 include seven months of the combined Firm™s (JPMorgan Chase & 
Co.™s and Bear Stearns™) results and five months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 
(f) The compensation expense as a percentage of total net revenue ratio includes the 
impact of the U.K. Bank Payroll Tax on certain compensation awarded from 

December 9, 2009 to April 5, 2010 to relevant banking employees. For 

comparability to prior periods, IB excludes the impact of the U.K. Bank Payroll Tax 

expense, which results in a compensation expense as a percentage of total net 

revenue for 2010 of 35%, which is a non-GAAP financial measure.   
The following table provides IB™s total net revenue by business segment. 
Year ende
d December 31, 
 (in millions) 
 2010
 2009
 2008
(e)
 Revenue by business
   Investment banking fees: 
      Advisory 
$    
1,469
 $  1,867$  2,008 
   Equity underwriting 
 1,589
  2,6411,749 
   Debt underwriting 
 3,128
 2,6612,150 
Total investment banking fees
  6,186
  7,1695,907 
Fixed income markets
(a)
  15,025
 17,5641,957 
Equity markets
(b)
  4,763
 4,3933,611 
Credit portfolio
(c)
(d)
  243
  (1,017) 860 
Total net revenue
 $  
26,217
 $ 28,109$12,335 
Revenue by region
(d)
    Americas 
$  
15,
189
 $ 15,156$  2,610 
Europe/Middle East/Africa 
 7,
405
 9,7907,710 
Asia/Pacific 
 3,62
3 3,1632,015 
Total net revenue
 $  
26,217
 $ 28,109$12,335 
(a)
 Fixed income markets primarily include revenue related to market-making across 
global fixed income markets, including foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and 
commodities markets.  
(b)
 Equities markets primarily include revenue related to market-making across 
global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives, convertibles and 
prime services.  
(c)
 Credit portfolio revenue includes net interest income, fees and loan sale activity, 
as well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, 
for IB™s credit portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk 
management related to the Firm™s lending and derivative activities. See pages 

116Œ118 of the Credit Risk Management section of this Annual Report for 
further discussion.  
(d)
 TSS was charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed 
within IB™s credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS. IB recognizes this 
credit reimbursement in its credit portfolio business in all other income.  
(e)
 Results for 2008 include seven months of the combined Firm™s (JPMorgan Chase 
& Co.™s and Bear Stearns™) results and five months of heritage JPMorgan Chase 
& Co. results.  
2010 compared with 2009  
Net income was $6.6 billion, down 4% compared with the prior year. 
These results primarily reflected lower net revenue as well as higher 

noninterest expense, largely offset by a benefit from the provision for 

credit losses, compared with an expense in the prior year.  
Net revenue was $26.2 billion, compared with $28.1 billion in the 
prior year. Investment banking fees were $6.2 billion, down 14% 

from the prior year; these consisted of record debt underwriting 

fees of $3.1 billion (up 18%), equity underwriting fees of 

$1.6 billion (down 40%), and advisory fees of $1.5 billion (down 

21%). Fixed Income Markets revenue was $15.0 billion, compared 

with $17.6 billion in the prior year. The decrease from the prior 

year largely reflected lower results in rates and credit markets, 

partially offset by gains of $287 million from the widening of the 

Firm™s credit spread on certain structured liabilities, compared with 

losses of $1.1 billion in the prior year. Equity Markets revenue was 

$4.8 billion, compared with $4.4 billion in the prior year, reflecting 

solid client revenue, as well as gains of $181 million from the 

widening of the Firm™s credit spread on certain structured liabilities, 

compared with losses of $596 million in the prior year. Credit 

Portfolio revenue was $243 million, primarily reflecting net interest 

income and fees on loans, partially offset by the negative impact of 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
70
credit spreads on derivative assets and mark-to-market losses on 
hedges of retained loans. 
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $1.2 billion, compared 
with an expense of $2.3 billion in the prior year. The current-year 

provision reflected a reduction in the allowance for loan losses, largely 

related to net repayments and loan sales. Net charge-offs were 

$735 million, compared with $1.9 billion in the prior year.  
Noninterest expense was $17.3 billion, up $1.9 billion from the prior 
year, driven by higher noncompensation expense, which included 

increased litigation reserves, and higher compensation expense 

which included the impact of the U.K. Bank Payroll Tax. 
Return on Equity  was 17% on $40.0 billion of average allocated 
capital.  
2009 compared with 2008 
 Net income was $6.9 billion, compared with a net loss of $1.2 
billion in the prior year. These results reflected significantly higher 

total net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense and 

a higher provision for credit losses.  
Total net revenue was $28.1 billion, compared with $12.3 billion in 
the prior year. Investment banking fees were up 21% to $7.2 

billion, consisting of debt underwriting fees of $2.7 billion (up 

24%), equity underwriting fees of $2.6 billion (up 51%), and 

advisory fees of $1.9 billion (down 7%). Fixed Income Markets 

revenue was $17.6 billion, compared with $2.0 billion in the prior 

year, reflecting improved performance across most products and 

modest net gains on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage-

related positions, compared with net markdowns of $10.6 billion in 

the prior year. Equity Markets revenue was $4.4 billion, up 22% 

from the prior year, driven by strong client revenue across products, 

particularly prime services, and improved trading results. Fixed 

Income and Equity Markets results also included losses of $1.7 

billion from the tightening of the Firm™s credit spread on certain 

structured liabilities, compared with gains of $1.2 billion in the 

prior year. Credit Portfolio revenue was a loss of $1.0 billion versus 

a gain of $860 million in the prior year, driven by mark-to-market 

losses on hedges of retained loans compared with gains in the prior 

year, partially offset by the positive net impact of credit spreads on 

derivative assets and liabilities.  
The provision for credit losses was $2.3 billion, compared with $2.0 
billion in the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the credit 

environment. The allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans 

retained was 8.25%, compared with 4.83% in the prior year. Net 

charge-offs were $1.9 billion, compared with $105 million in the 

prior year. Total nonperforming assets were $4.2 billion, compared 

with $2.5 billion in the prior year.  
Noninterest expense was $15.4 billion, up $1.6 billion, or 11%, 

from the prior year, driven by higher performance-based 

compensation expense, partially offset by lower headcount-related 

expense.  
Return on Equity was 21% on $33.0 billion of average allocated 
capital, compared with negative 5% on $26.1 billion of average 

allocated capital in the prior year. 
 Selected metrics 
As of or for the y
ear ended 
 December 31, (in millions, 
   
except headcount)
 2010
 2009        2008
Selected balance sheet data 
 (period-end) 
  
Loans:
(a)
   Loans retained
(b)
  $   53,145
  $ 45,544   $ 
71,357 
Loans held
-for
-sale and loans at
    fair value 
3,746
 3,567 13,660
Total loans
 56,891
 49,111 85,017
Equity 
    40,000
   33,000    33,000
Selected balance sheet data 
 (average)
   
Total assets 
 $ 731,801
   $ 699,039   $ 832,729
Trading assets 
Œ debt and equity
 instruments 
307,061
 273,624 350,812
Trading assets 
Œ derivative 
 receivables 
70,289
 96,042 112,337
Loans: 
(a)
   Loans retained
(b) 54,402
 62,722 73,108
Loans held
-for
-sale a
nd loans at 
    fair value 
3,215
 7,589 18,502
Total loans
 57,617
 70,311 91,610
Adjusted assets
(c)
 540,449
 538,724 679,780
Equity 
40,000
 33,000 26,098
Headcount
 26,314
 24,654 27,938
(a)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to 
VIEs. Upon adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits. As a result, $15.1 billion of related loans 
were recorded in loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
(b)
 Loans retained included credit portfolio loans, leveraged leases and other 
accrual loans, and excluded loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value.  
(c)
 Adjusted assets, a non-GAAP financial measure, equals total assets minus  
(1) securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed less 
securities sold, not yet purchased; (2) assets of variable interest entities 
(ﬁVIEsﬂ); (3) cash and securities segregated and on deposit for regulatory and 

other purposes; (4) goodwill and intangibles; (5) securities received as 

collateral; and (6) investments purchased under the Asset-Backed Commercial 
Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility (ﬁAML Facilityﬂ). The 
amount of adjusted assets is presented to assist the reader in comparing IB™s 

asset and capital levels to other investment banks in the securities industry. 
Asset-to-equity leverage ratios are commonly used as one measure to assess a 
company™s capital adequacy. IB believes an adjusted asset amount that 

excludes the assets discussed above, which were considered to have a low risk 
profile, provides a more meaningful measure of balance sheet leverage in the 
securities industry.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 71
Selected metrics 
As of or for the y
ear ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
2010
  2009 2008 
Credit data and quality statistics 
   
Net charge-offs  
$  735
 $ 1,904 
$    
105
 Nonperforming assets:  
   
Nonaccrual loans: 
   
Nonaccrual loans retained
(a)(b)
  
3,159
 3,196 1,143 
Nonaccrual 
loans held
-for
-sale and
 loans at fair value  
460
 308 32 
Total nonperforming loans 3,619
 3,504 1,175 
Derivative receivables 
34
 529 1,079 
Assets acquired in loan satisfactions 
117
 203 247 
   
Total nonperforming assets 3,770
 4,236 2,501 
Allowance for credit losses:  
     
Allowance for loan losses  
1,863
 3,756 
3,444
 Allowance for lending
-related 
   commitments  
447
 485 
360
    
Total allowance for credit losses 2,310
 4,241 
3,804
 Net charge-off rate
(a)(c)
 1.35
% 3.04%
   0.14
% Allowance for loan losses to period
-end
      loans retained
(a)(c)
 3.51
 8.25 
 4.83
 Allowance for loan losses to average
      loans retained
(a)(c)(d)
 3.42
 5.99
  4.71
(i) 
Allowance for loan losses to 
      nonaccrual loans retained
(a)(b)(c)
 59
 118 
301
 Nonaccrual loans to total period-end loans
 6.36
 7.13 
1.38
 Nonaccrual loans to average loans 
6.28
 4.98 
1.28
 Market riskŒaverage trading and 
credit portfolio VaR Œ 95%  
confidence level
(e)
  
   
Trading activities:  
   
Fixed income  
$    65
 $    160 
$    162
 Foreign exchange  
11
 18 
23
 Equities  
22
 47 
47
 Commodities and other  
16
 20 
23
 Diversification
(f)  
(43
) 
(91) 
(88
) 
Total trading VaR
(g)  
71
 154 
167
 Credit portfolio VaR
(h) 26
 52 
45
 Diversification
(f) (10
) 
(42) 
(36
) 
Total trading and credit portfolio VaR
 $    87
 $    164 
$    176
 (a)
 Loans retained included credit portfolio loans, leveraged leases and other 
accrual loans, and excluded loans held-for-sale and loans accounted for at 
fair value.  
(b)
 Allowance for loan losses of $1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and $430 million were 
held against these nonaccural loans at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively.  
(c)
 Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating 
the allowance coverage ratio and net charge-off rate.  
(d)
 Results for 2008 include seven months of the combined Firm™s (JPMorgan 
Chase & Co.™s and Bear Stearns™) results and five months of heritage 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s results only.  
(e)
 For 2008, 95% VaR reflects data only for the last six months of the year as 
the Firm began to calculate VaR using a 95% confidence level effective in the 

third quarter of 2008, rather than the prior 99% confidence level. 
(f)
 Average value-at-risk (ﬁVaRﬂ) was less than the sum of the VaR of the 

components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification. The 

diversification effect reflects the fact that the risks were not perfectly 
correlated. The risk of a portfolio of positions is therefore usually less than the 
sum of the risks of the positions themselves.  
(g)
 Trading VaR includes predominantly all trading activities in IB, as well as 
syndicated lending facilities that the Firm intends to distribute; however, 
particular risk parameters of certain products are not fully captured, for 
example, correlation risk. Trading VaR does not include the debit valuation 
adjustments (ﬁDVAﬂ) taken on derivative and structured liabilities to reflect 
the credit quality of the Firm. See VaR discussion on pages 142Œ146 and the 

DVA Sensitivity table on page 144 of this Annual Report for further details. 
Trading VaR includes the estimated credit spread sensitivity of certain 
mortgage products. 
(h)
 Credit portfolio VaR includes the derivative credit valuation adjustments 
(ﬁCVAﬂ), hedges of the CVA and mark-to-market (ﬁMTMﬂ) hedges of the 
retained loan portfolio, which were all reported in principal transactions 

revenue. This VaR does not include the retained loan portfolio. 
(i)
 Excluding the impact of a loan originated in March 2008 to Bear Stearns, the 
adjusted ratio would be 4.84% for 2008. The average balance of the loan 
extended to Bear Stearns was $1.9 billion for 2008. 
   Market shares and rankings
(a) 
           20
10
    2009
   2008 
  Year ended 
Market
  Market 
 Market 
  December 31, 
share 
Rankings 
share 
Rankings
 share 
Rankings
  Global investment
   banking fees
 (b)
 8% 
#1 
9%
 #1 
9% 
#2 
 Debt, equity and 
   equity-related 
        Global  
7 
1 9 
1 
8 
2 
  U.S.  
11 
2 15 
1 
14 
2 
 Syndicated loans 
        Global  
9 1 
8 
1 
9 
1 
  U.S.  
19
 2 
22 
1 
22 
1 
 Long-term debt
 (c)
         Global  
7 
2 8 
1 
8 
3 
  U.S. 
11 
2 14 
1 
14 
2 
 Equity and equity
-   related 
         Global
(d)
  
7 3 
12 
1 
12 
2 
  U.S. 
13
 2 
16 
2 
16 
2 
 Announced M&A
(e)
         Global  
16
 4 
24 
3 
25 
1 
  U.S. 
23 
3 36 
2 
31 
2 
 (a)
  Source: Dealogic. Global Investment Banking fees reflects ranking of fees  
and market share. Remainder of rankings reflects transaction volume rank and 
market share. Results for 2008 are pro forma for the Bear Stearns merger. 
(b)
  Global IB fees exclude money market, short-term debt and shelf deals. 
(c)
  Long-term debt tables include investment-grade, high-yield, supranationals, 
sovereigns, agencies, covered bonds, asset-backed securities and mortgage-
backed securities; and exclude money market, short-term debt, and U.S.  
municipal securities. 
(d)
  Equity and equity-related rankings include rights offerings and Chinese  
A-Shares. 
(e)
  Global announced M&A is based on transaction value at announcement;  
all other rankings are based on transaction proceeds, with full credit to each 
book manager/equal if joint. Because of joint assignments, market share of all 
participants will add up to more than 100%. M&A for 2010, 2009 and 2008, 
reflects the removal of any withdrawn transactions. U.S. announced M&A 
represents any U.S. involvement ranking. 
 According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #1 in Global  
Investment Banking Fees generated during 2010, based on 
revenue; #1 in Global Debt, Equity and Equity-related; #1 in 
Global Syndicated Loans; #2 in Global Long-Term Debt; #3 in 
Global Equity and Equity-related; and #4 in Global Announced 
M&A, based on volume.
   
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
72
 RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Retail Financial Services (ﬁRFSﬂ) serves consumers and 
businesses through personal service at bank branches 
and through ATMs, online banking and telephone 
banking, as well as through auto dealerships and school 
financial-aid offices. Customers can use more than 
5,200 bank branches (third-largest nationally) and 
16,100 ATMs (second-largest nationally), as well as 
online and mobile banking around the clock. More than 
28,900 branch salespeople assist customers with 
checking and savings accounts, mortgages, home equity 
and business loans, and investments across the 23-state 
footprint from New York and Florida to California. 
Consumers also can obtain loans through more than 
16,200 auto dealerships and 2,200 schools and 
universities nationwide.  
Prior to January 1, 2010, RFS was reported as: Retail Banking and 
Consumer Lending. Commencing in 2010, Consumer Lending is 

presented as: (1) Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer 

Lending, and (2) Real Estate Portfolios. Mortgage Banking, Auto & 

Other Consumer Lending comprises mortgage production and 

servicing, auto finance, and student and other lending activities. Real 

Estate Portfolios comprises residential mortgages and home equity 

loans, including the purchased credit-impaired portfolio acquired in 

the Washington Mutual transaction. These reporting revisions were 

intended to provide further clarity around the Real Estate Portfolios. 

Retail Banking, which includes branch banking and business banking 

activities, was not affected by these reporting revisions. 
Selected income statement data 
Year ended Dece
mber 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
2010 
2009 2008 
Revenue
    
Lending- and deposit-related fees 
$   
3,117
 $   3,969 $  
2,546 
 Asset management, administr
ation 
 and commissions 
1,784 
1,674 1,510 
Mortgage fees and related income 
3,855
 3,794 3,621 
Credit card income 
1,956
 1,635 939 
Other income 
1,516
 1,128 739 
Noninterest rev
enue 
 12,228
 12,200 9,355 
Net interest income  
19
,528
 20,492 14,165 
Total net revenue
(a)
  
31,756 
32,692 23,520 
Provision for credit losses  
9,452 
15,940 9,905 
Noninterest e
xpense 
    
Compensation expense 
7,432
 6,712 5,068 
Noncompensation expense 
10,155
 9,706 6,612 
Amortization of intangibles  
277
 330 397 
Total noninterest e
xpense 
 17,864
 16,748 12,077 
Income before income tax 
 expense/(benefit) 
    4,440 
    4 
1,538 
 Income tax expense/(benefit) 
1,914
 (93) 658 
Net income 
   
$   
2,526
 $       97  $     880
  Financial ratios 
    
ROE 
 9% Š% 5%
 Overhead ratio  
56
 51 51 
Overhead ratio excluding core 
deposit intangibles
(b)
 55 
50 50 
(a)
 Total net revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments associated with tax-exempt 
loans to municipalities and other qualified entities of $15 million, $22 million and 
$23 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(b)
 RFS uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization of core deposit intangibles 

(ﬁCDIﬂ)), a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the underlying expense trends 
of the business. Including CDI amortization expense in the overhead ratio 

calculation would result in a higher overhead ratio in the earlier years and a lower 

overhead ratio in later years. This method would therefore result in an improving 
overhead ratio over time, all things remaining equal. The non-GAAP ratio excludes 
Retail Banking™s CDI amortization expense related to prior business combination 

transactions of $276 million, $328 million and $394 million for the years ended 

December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
 2010 compared with 2009  
Net income was $2.5 billion, compared with $97 million in the 
prior year. 
 Net revenue was $31.8 billion, a decrease of $936 million, or 3%, 

compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $19.5 

billion, down by $964 million, or 5%, reflecting the impact of lower 

loan and deposit balances and narrower loan spreads, partially 

offset by a shift to wider-spread deposit products. Noninterest 

revenue was $12.2 billion, flat to the prior year, as lower deposit-

related fees were largely offset by higher debit card income and 

auto operating lease income. 
The provision for credit losses was $9.5 billion, compared with $15.9 
billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected an 

addition to the allowance for loan losses of $3.4 billion for the 

purchased credit-impaired (ﬁPCIﬂ) portfolio and a reduction in the 

allowance for loan losses of $1.8 billion, predominantly for the 

mortgage loan portfolios. In comparison, the prior-year provision 

reflected an addition to the allowance for loan losses of $5.8 billion, 

predominantly for the home equity and mortgage portfolios, but 

which also included an addition of $1.6 billion for the PCI portfolio. 

While delinquency trends and net charge-offs improved compared 

with the prior year, the provision continued to reflect elevated losses 

for the mortgage and home equity portfolios. See page 130 of this 

Annual Report for the net charge-off amounts and rates. To date, 

no charge-offs have been recorded on PCI loans. 
Noninterest expense was $17.9 billion, an increase of $1.1 billion, or 
7%, from the prior year, reflecting higher default-related expense.  
2009 compared with 2008  
The following discussion of RFS™s financial results reflects the 

acquisition of Washington Mutual™s retail bank network and 

mortgage banking activities as a result of the Washington Mutual 

transaction on September 25, 2008. See Note 2 on pages 166Œ170 

of this Annual Report for more information concerning this 

transaction. 
Net income was $97 million, a decrease of $783 million from the 
prior year, as the increase in provision for credit losses more than 

offset the positive impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.  
Net revenue was $32.7 billion, an increase of $9.2 billion, or 39%, 
from the prior year. Net interest income was $20.5 billion, up by 

$6.3 billion, or 45%, reflecting the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction, and wider loan and deposit spreads. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 73
Noninterest revenue was $12.2 billion, up by $2.8 billion, or 30%, 
driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider 

margins on mortgage originations and higher net mortgage 

servicing revenue, partially offset by $1.6 billion in estimated losses 

related to the repurchase of previously sold loans. 
The provision for credit losses was $15.9 billion, an increase of 
$6.0 billion from the prior year. Weak economic conditions and 

housing price declines continued to drive higher estimated losses 

for the home equity and mortgage loan portfolios. The provision 

included an addition of $5.8 billion to the allowance for loan 

losses, compared with an addition of $5.0 billion in the prior year. 

Included in the 2009 addition to the allowance for loan losses was 

a $1.6 billion increase related to estimated deterioration in the 

Washington Mutual PCI portfolio. See page 130 of this Annual 

Report for the net charge-off amounts and rates. To date, no 

charge-offs have been recorded on PCI loans. 
Noninterest expense was $16.7 billion, an increase of $4.7 billion, 
or 39%. The increase reflected the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction and higher servicing and default-related 

expense.  
Selected metrics
 As of or for the year ended 
December 31, (in millions, except 
headcount and ratios) 
2010
         2009 2008 
Selected balance sheet data
 (period-end) 
   Assets   
$  
366,841
 $  387,269 $ 
419,831 
 Loans:  
   Loans retained  
316,725
 340,332 368,786 
Loans held
-for
-sale and loans
    at fair value
(a)
 14,863
 14,612 9,996 
Total loans 
 331,588
 354,944 378,782 
Deposits  
370,819
 357,463 360,451 
Equity  
28,000
 25,000 25,000 
Selected balance sheet data 
 (average) 
   Assets  
$  
381,337
 $  407,497 
$ 304,442 
 Loans:  
   Loans retained  
33
1,330
 354,789 257,083 
Loans held
-for
-sale and loans
    at fair value
(a)
 16,515
 18,072 17,056 
Total loans 
 347,845
 372,861 274,139 
Deposits  
362,386
 367,696 258,362 
Equity  
28,000
 25,000 19,011 
Headcount  121,876
 108,971 102,007 
   
 
   
   As of or for the year ended 
December 31, (in millions, except 
headcount and ratios) 
2010
         2009 2008 
Credit data and quality 
statistics 
   Net charge-offs 
$  
   
7,906
 $    10,113 $    
4,877 
 Nonaccrual
 loans:
    Nonaccrual
 loans retained 
8,768
 10,611 6,548 
Nonaccrual
 loans held
-for
-    sale and loans at fair value 
145
 234 236 
Total nonaccrual loans
(b)(c)(d)
  8,913
 10,845 6,784 
Nonperforming assets
(b)(c)(d)
 10,266
 12,098 9,077 
Allowance for loan losses  
16,453
 14,776 8,918 
Net charge-off rate
(e)
 2.39%
 2.85%
    1.90%
 Net charge
-off
 rate excluding PCI
 loans
(e)(f)
 3.11
 3.75 2.08 
Allowance for loan losses to 
ending loans
 retained
(e)
 5.19
 4.34 2.42 
Allowance f
or loan losses to 
ending loans excluding  
PCI loans
(e)(f)
 4.72
 5.09 3.19 
Allowance for loan losses to 
 nonaccrual loans
  
retained
(b)(e)(f)
 131
 124 136 
Nonaccrual
 loans to total loans  
2.69
 3.06 
1.79 
 Nonaccrual
 loans to total loans 
excluding PCI loans
(b)
 3.44
 3.96 
2.34 
 (a) Loans at fair value consist of prime mortgages originated with the intent to sell 
that are accounted for at fair value and classified as trading assets on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. These loans totaled $14.7 billion, $12.5 billion 

and $8.0 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Average 

balances of these loans totaled $15.2 billion, $15.8 billion and $14.2 billion 
for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(b) Excludes PCI loans that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual 
transaction, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is 

accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an 
aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of the pools, or 

that of the individual loans within the pools, is not meaningful. Because the 
Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, they are all 
considered to be performing. 
(c) Certain of these loans are classified as trading assets on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. 
(d) At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) 
mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $10.5 billion, $9.0 
billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, that are 90 days past due and accruing 
at the guaranteed reimbursement rate; (2) real estate owned insured by U.S. 

government agencies of $1.9 billion, $579 million and $364 million, 

respectively; and (3) student loans that are 90 days past due and still 
accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal 
Family Education Loan Program (ﬂFFELPﬂ), of $625 million, $542 million 

and $437 million, respectively. These amounts are excluded as 
reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally. 
(e) Loans held-for-sale and loans accounted for at fair value were excluded 
when calculating the allowance coverage ratio and the net charge-off rate. 
(f) Excludes the impact of PCI loans that were acquired as part of the 
Washington Mutual transaction. These loans were accounted for at fair 
value on the acquisition date, which incorporated management's estimate, 
as of that date, of credit losses over the remaining life of the portfolio. An 
allowance for loan losses of $4.9 billion and $1.6 billion was recorded for 

these loans at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which has also 
been excluded from the applicable ratios. No allowance for loan losses was 
recorded for these loans at December 31, 2008. To date, no charge-offs 

have been recorded for these loans. 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
74
Retail Banking 
Selected income statement data 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios)  
2010
20092008 
Noninterest revenue  
$   
6,792
$   7,169$  
4,951 
 Net interest income  
10,785
 10,7817,659 
Total net 
revenue 
 17,577
 17,95012,610 
Provision for credit losses  
607
1,142449 
Noninterest expense  
10,657
   10,3577,232 
Income before income 
 tax expense  
6,313
6,451   
4,929 
 Net i
ncome 
 $   
3,614
$   3,903
$  2,982 
 Overhead ratio  
61
% 58%
 57%
 Overhead ratio excluding core 
deposit intangibles
(a)
  
59
 5654 
(a) Retail Banking uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization of CDI), a 
non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the underlying expense trends of 
the business. Including CDI amortization expense in the overhead ratio 

calculation would result in a higher overhead ratio in the earlier years and a 
lower overhead ratio in later years; this method would therefore result in an 
improving overhead ratio over time, all things remaining equal. The non-

GAAP ratio excludes Retail Banking™s CDI amortization expense related to 
prior business combination transactions of $276 million, $328 million and 
$394 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively.  
Selected metrics
 As of or for the year ended 
 December 31, (in billions, except 
ratios and where otherwise noted) 
2010
         2009
 2008
 Business metrics 
   Business banking origination 
volume
 (in millions) 
$   4,688
  $ 2,299
  $   5,531
  End-of-period loans owned  
16.8
  17.0
   18.4
  End-of-period deposits: 
      Checking  
$   
131.7
  $ 121.9
  $   
109.2 
 Savings  
166.6
  153.4
   144.0
  Time and other  
45.9
  58.0
   89.1
  Total end
-of-period deposits 
 344.2
  333.3
   342.3
  Average loans owned  
$     
16.7
  $   17.8
  $     16.7
  Average deposits
:        Checking  
$ 
  
123.4
  $ 113.5
  $     
77.1 
 Savings  
162.1
  150.9
   114.3
  Time and other  
51.0
  76.4
   53.2
  Total average dep
osits 
 336.5
  340.8
   244.6
  Deposit margin 
3.03
 % 2.96
 % 2.89
 % Average assets  
$     
28.3
  $   28.9
  $     26.3
  Credit data and quality st
atistics
  (in millions, except ratios) 
      Net charge-offs 
$      
707
  $    842
  $      346
  Net charge-off rate 
4.23
 % 4.73
 % 2.07
 % Nonperforming assets 
$      
846
  $    839
  $      424
   Retail branch business metrics
 Year ended December 31,  
20
10
        2009
 2008
  Investment sales volume (in millions) 
 $ 23,579
  $ 21,784
 $17,640 
 Number of:  
    Branches  
5,268
 5,154
 5,474
  ATMs 
16,145
 15,406
 14,568
  Personal bankers 
21,715
 17,991
 15,825
  Sales specialists 
7,196
 5,912
 5,661
  Active online customers 
    (in thousands)  
17,744
 15,424
 11,710
  Checking accounts (in thousands) 
27,252
 25,712
 24,499
   2010 compared with 2009  
Retail Banking
 reported net income of $3.6 billion, a decrease of 
$289 million, or 7%, compared with the prior year. Total net 

revenue was $17.6 billion, down 2% compared with the prior year. 

The decrease was driven by lower deposit-related fees, largely 

offset by higher debit card income and a shift to wider-spread 

deposit products. The provision for credit losses was $607 million, 

down $535 million compared with the prior year. The current-year 

provision reflected lower net charge-offs and a reduction of $100 

million to the allowance for loan losses due to lower estimated 

losses, compared with a $300 million addition to the allowance for 

loan losses in the prior year. Retail Banking net charge-offs were 

$707 million, compared with $842 million in the prior year. 

Noninterest expense was $10.7 billion, up 3% compared with the 

prior year, resulting from sales force increases in Business Banking 

and bank branches.  
2009 compared with 2008  
Retail Banking
 reported net income of $3.9 billion, up by $921 
million, or 31%, from the prior year. Total net revenue was $18.0 

billion, up by $5.3 billion, or 42%, from the prior year. The increase 

reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider 

deposit spreads, higher average deposit balances and higher debit 

card income. The provision for credit losses was $1.1 billion, 

compared with $449 million in the prior year, reflecting higher 

estimated losses in the Business Banking portfolio. Noninterest 

expense was $10.4 billion, up by $3.1 billion, or 43%. The increase 

reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher 

FDIC insurance premiums and higher headcount-related expense. 
Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer  
Lending 
Selected income statement data 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios)  
2010
         
2009
  2008
  Noninterest revenue 
 $ 
5,321
 $ 5,057
  $ 4,689
  Net interest income  
 3,311
 3,165
  2,279
  Total net revenue 
  8,632
 8,222
  6,968
  Provision for credit losses  
 614
 1,235
  895
  Noninterest expense  
 5,580
 4,544
  3,956
  Income before income 
 tax expense 
 2,438 
2,443
  2,117
  Net 
income
  $ 
1,405
 $ 1,643
  $ 1,286
  Overhead ratio  
65
% 55
 % 57
 % 2010 compared with 2009  
Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer Lending 
reported net income of $1.4 billion, a decrease of $238 million, or 
14%, from the prior year.  
Net revenue was $8.6 billion, up by $410 million, or 5%, from the 
prior year. Mortgage Banking net revenue was $5.2 billion, flat to 

the prior year. Other Consumer Lending net revenue, comprising 

Auto and Student Lending, was $3.5 billion, up by $447 million, 
predominantly as a result of higher auto loan and lease balances.  
Mortgage Banking net revenue included $904 million of net 
interest income, $3.9 billion of mortgage fees and related income, 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 75
and $413 million of other noninterest revenue. Mortgage fees and 
related revenue comprised $528 million of net production revenue, 

$2.2 billion of servicing operating revenue and $1.1 billion of MSR 

risk management revenue. Production revenue, excluding 
repurchase losses, was $3.4 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion, 
reflecting wider mortgage margins and higher origination volumes. 

Total production revenue was reduced by $2.9 billion of repurchase 

losses, compared with $1.6 billion in the prior year, and included a 

$1.6 billion increase in the repurchase reserve during the current 

year, reflecting higher estimated future repurchase demands. 
Servicing operating revenue was $2.2 billion, an increase of $528 
million, reflecting an improvement in other changes in the MSR 

asset fair value driven by lower runoff of the MSR asset due to time 

decay, partially offset by lower loan servicing revenue as a result of 

lower third-party loans serviced. MSR risk management revenue 
was $1.1 billion, a decrease of $492 million. 
The provision for credit losses, predominantly related to the student 
and auto loan portfolios, was $614 million, compared with 
$1.2 billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected 
lower net charge-offs and a reduction of $135 million to the 

allowance for loan losses due to lower estimated losses, compared 

with a $307 million addition to the allowance for loan losses in the 

prior year. See page 130 of this Annual Report for the net charge-
off amounts and rates. 
Noninterest expense was $5.6 billion, up by $1.0 billion, or 23%, 
from the prior year, driven by an increase in default-related expense 
for the serviced portfolio, including costs associated with 
foreclosure affidavit-related suspensions.  
2009 compared with 2008 
 Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer Lending 
reported net income of $1.6 billion, an increase of $357 million, 
or 28%, from the prior year.  
Net revenue was $8.2 billion, up by $1.3 billion, or 18%, from the 
prior year. Mortgage Banking net revenue was $5.2 billion, up by 

$701 million. Other Consumer Lending net revenue, comprising 

Auto and Student Lending, was $3.0 billion, up by $553 million, 

largely as a result of wider loan spreads.  
Mortgage Banking net revenue included $973 million of net 
interest income, $3.8 billion of mortgage fees and related income, 
and $442 million of other noninterest revenue. Mortgage fees and 

related income comprised $503 million of net production revenue, 

$1.7 billion of servicing operating revenue and $1.6 billion of MSR 

risk management revenue. Production revenue, excluding 

repurchase losses, was $2.1 billion, an increase of $965 million, 
reflecting wider margins on new originations. Total production 
revenue was reduced by $1.6 billion of repurchase losses, 

compared with repurchase losses of $252 million in the prior year. 

Servicing operating revenue was $1.7 billion, an increase of $457 

million, reflecting growth in average third-party loans serviced as a 

result of the Washington Mutual transaction. MSR risk 
management revenue was $1.6 billion, an increase of $111 million, 
reflecting the positive impact of a decrease in estimated future 
prepayments during 2009. 
The provision for credit losses, predominantly related to the student 
and auto loan portfolios, was $1.2 billion, compared with $895 

million in the prior year. The current- and prior-year provision 

reflected an increase in the allowance for loan losses for student 
and auto loans. See page 130 of this Annual Report for the net 
charge-off amounts and rates. 
Noninterest expense was $4.5 billion, up by $588 million, or 15%, 
from the prior year, driven by higher servicing and default-related 

expense and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. 
Selected m
etrics
    As of or for the year ended 
 December 31, (in billions, except ratios 
and where otherwise noted) 
 2010 
  2009 2008 
Business metrics 
  End-of-period loans owned: 
 Auto  
 $ 48.4
  $   46.0 $ 
42.6 
 Mortgage
(a)
   14.2
   11.9 6.5 
Student and other 
  14.4
   15.8 16.3 
Total end
-of-period loans owned
  $ 77.0
  $   73.7 $ 
65.4 
 Average loans owned: 
  
 Auto  
 $ 47.6
  $ 43.6 $ 
43.8 
 Mortgage
(a)
   13.4
   8.8 4.3 
Student and other 
  16.2
   16.3 13.8 
Total average loans owned
(b)
  $ 77.2 
 $ 68.7 $ 
61.9 
 Credit data and 
quality statistics 
 (in millions)
   
  
Net charge-offs: 
   Auto  
 $ 298
  $ 627 $  
568 
 Mortgage 
  41
   14 5 
Student and other 
  410
   287 64 
Total net charge
-offs
  $ 749
  $ 928 $  
637 
 Net charge-off rate: 
  
 Auto  
 0.63
%  1.44%
  1.30 
% Mortgage 
  0.31
   0.17 0.13 
Student and other 
  2.72
   1.98 0.57 
Total net charge-off rate
(b)
  0.99 
 1.40  
1.08 
 30+ day delinquency rate
(c)(d)
  1.69
  1.75 1.91 
Nonperforming assets (in millions)
(e)
  $ 996
  $ 912 $  866 
    Origination volume:
    Mortgage origination volume by
 channel: 
   
Retail 
 $  
68.8
  $ 53.9 $  41.1 
Wholesale
(f)
   1.3
   3.6 26.7 
Correspondent
(f)
   75.3
   81.0 58.2 
CNT (negotiated transactions) 
  10.
2   12.2 43.0 
Total 
mortgage origination 
 volume
  $155.6
  $ 150.7 $169.0 
Student  
   
 1.9
   4.2     
6.9 
 Auto 
  23.0
   23.7 19.4 
  
   
 
   
 
  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
76
Selected me
trics
  As of or for the year ended 
 December 31,  
(in billions, except ratios) 
 2010 
 2009 
2008
 Application volume: 
   Mortgage application volume 
 by channel: 
   
Retail 
$ 115.1
  $ 90.9  $     
89.1
 Wholesale
(f)
  2.4 
  4.9   
58.6
 Correspondent
(f)
  97.3 
  110.8   
86.9
 Total mortgage applic
ation 
volume 
$ 214.8 
 $ 206.6  $   
234.6
 Average mortgage loans held-for-sale 
and loans at fair value
(g)
 $ 15.4 
 $ 16.2  $     
14.6
 Average assets 
 126.0
   115.0   
98.8
 Repurchase reserve (ending) 
 3.0
   1.4   
1.0
 Third
-party mortgage loans se
rviced 
(ending) 
 967.5 
  1,082.1   
1,172.6
 Third
-party mortgage loans se
rviced 
(average) 
 1,037.6 
  1,119.1   
774.9
 MSR net carrying value (ending) 
 13.6
   15.5   
9.3
 Ratio of MSR net carrying value 
(ending) to third-party mortgage 
loans serviced (ending) 
 1.41%
  1.43%
   
0.79
% Ratio of ann
ualized loan servicing 
revenue to third-party mortgage 
loans serviced  (average) 
  0.44 
  0.44   
0.42
 MSR revenue multiple
(h)
  3.20x 
 3.25x   
1.88
x 
 Supplemental mortgage fees 
 and related income details 
   As of or for the year ended 
 December 31, (in millions)
  2010 
 2009 
2008
 Net production  revenue: 
   Production  revenue  
$ 3,440
  $ 2,115  $ 
1,150
 Repurchase losses 
 (2,912)
   (1,612)   
(252
) 
Net production revenue
  528
   503   
898
 Net mortgage servicing revenue: 
   Operating revenue: 
   Loan servicing revenue 
 4,575
   4,942   
3,258
 Other changes in MSR asset 
   fair value 
 (2,384) 
  (3,279)   
(2,052
) 
Total operating revenue
  2,191
   1,663   
1,206
 Risk management: 
   Changes in MSR asset fair value 
 due to inputs or assumptions   

in model 
 (2,268) 
  5,804   
(6,849
) 
Derivative valuation adjus
tments
 and other 
 3,404 
  (4,176)   
8,366
 Total risk ma
nagement
  1,136
   1,628   
1,517
 Total net mortgage servicing 
revenue 
 3,327 
  3,291   
2,723
 Mortgage fees and related 
income 
$ 3,855 
 $ 3,794  $ 
3,621
 (a)
 Predominantly represents prime loans repurchased from Government National 
Mortgage Association (ﬁGinnie Maeﬂ) pools, which are insured by U.S. 
government agencies. See further discussion of loans repurchased from Ginnie 

Mae pools in Repurchase liability on pages 98Œ101 of this Annual Report. 
(b)
 Total average loans owned includes loans held-for-sale of $1.3 billion, $2.2 

billion and $2.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 

2008, respectively. These amounts are excluded when calculating the net 
charge-off rate. 
(c)
 Excludes mortgage loans that are insured by U.S. government agencies of 
$11.4 billion, $9.7 billion and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 
2008, respectively. These amounts are excluded as reimbursement of 
insured amounts is proceeding normally. 
(d)
 Excludes loans that are 30 days past due and still accruing, which are 
insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP, of $1.1 billion, $942 
million and $824 million at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively. These amounts are excluded as reimbursement of insured 
amounts is proceeding normally. 
(e)
 At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) 
mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $10.5 billion, $9.0 
billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, that are 90 days past due and accruing 
at the guaranteed reimbursement rate; (2) real estate owned insured by U.S. 

government agencies of $1.9 billion, $579 million and $364 million, 
respectively; and (3) student loans that are 90 days past due and still 
accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP, 

of $625 million, $542 million and $437 million, respectively. These amounts 

are excluded as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally. 
(f)
 Includes rural housing loans sourced through brokers and correspondents, 

which are underwritten under U.S. Department of Agriculture guidelines. 

Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period 
presentation. 
(g)
 Loans at fair value consist of prime mortgages originated with the intent to 
sell that are accounted for at fair value and classified as trading assets on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Average balances of these loans totaled 
$15.2 billion, $15.8 billion and $14.2 billion for the years ended December 

31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(h)
 Represents the ratio of MSR net carrying value (ending) to third-party 

mortgage loans serviced (ending) divided by the ratio of annualized loan 

servicing revenue to third-party mortgage loans serviced (average).  
 
 Mortgage origination channels comprise the following:  
Retail 
Œ Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home 
through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the 
Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers 
are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by a banker in a 
Chase branch, real estate brokers, home builders or other third 
parties.  
Wholesale 
Œ A third-party mortgage broker refers loan 
applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are 
independent loan originators that specialize in finding and 
counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for loans. The 
Firm exited the broker channel during 2008.  
Correspondent 
Œ Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and 
other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.  
Correspondent negotiated transactions (ﬁCNTsﬂ) 
Œ These 
transactions occur when mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, 
banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the 
Firm, on an as-originated basis, and exclude purchased bulk 
servicing transactions. These transactions supplement traditional 
production channels and provide growth opportunities in the 
servicing portfolio in stable and periods of rising interest rates. 
Net production revenue 
Œ Includes net gains or losses on 
originations and sales of prime and subprime mortgage loans, 
other production-related fees and losses related to the repurchase 
of previously-sold loans. 
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 77
Net mortgage servicing revenue 
includes the following  
components: 
(a)
 Operating revenue comprises: 
 Œ  all gross income earned from servicing third-party mortgage 
  loans including stated service fees, excess service fees, late 
  fees and other ancillary fees; and 
 Œ  modeled servicing portfolio runoff (or time decay). 
(b)
 Risk management comprises: 
 Œ  changes in MSR asset fair value due to market-based inputs 
  such as interest rates and volatility, as well as updates to  
  assumptions used in the MSR valuation model. 
 Œ   derivative valuation adjustments and other, which represents
    changes in the fair value of derivative instruments used to 
  offset the impact of changes in the market-based inputs to 
  the MSR valuation model. 
 Real Estate Portfolios 
Selected income statement data
    
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
2010 
2009 2008 
Noninterest revenue
 $     
115
   $ (26) $    (285
 ) 
Net interest income 
5,432
    6,546 4,227
  Total net revenue
 5,547
    6,520 3,942
  Provision for credit losses 
8,231
    13,563 8,561
  Noninterest expense 
1,627
    1,847 889
  Income/(loss) before income 
tax expense/(benefit) (4,311
 ) 
(8,890) (5,508
 ) 
Net i
ncome/(loss)
 $ 
(2,493
 )  $ (5,449) $ (3,388
 ) 
Overhead ratio 
 29
 % 28%
  23
 % 
2010 compared with 2009  
Real Estate Portfolios
 reported a net loss of $2.5 billion, 
compared with a net loss of $5.4 billion in the prior year. The 

improvement was driven by a lower provision for credit losses, 

partially offset by lower net interest income. 
Net revenue was $5.5 billion, down by $973 million, or 15%, 
from the prior year. The decrease was driven by a decline in net 

interest income as a result of lower loan balances, reflecting net 

portfolio runoff. 
The provision for credit losses was $8.2 billion, compared with 
$13.6 billion in the prior year. The current-year provision 

reflected a $1.9 billion reduction in net charge-offs and a  

$1.6 billion reduction in the allowance for the mortgage loan 

portfolios. This reduction in the allowance for loan losses included 

the effect of $632 million of charge-offs related to an adjustment of 

the estimated net realizable value of the collateral underlying 

delinquent residential home loans. For additional information,  

refer to Portfolio analysis on page 131 of this Annual Report. The 

remaining reduction of the allowance of approximately $950 

million was a result of an improvement in delinquencies and 

lower estimated losses, compared with prior year additions of 

$3.6 billion for the home equity and mortgage portfolios. 

Additionally, the current-year provision reflected an addition to 

the allowance for loan losses of $3.4 billion for the PCI portfolio, 
compared with a prior year addition of $1.6 billion for this 

portfolio. (For further detail, see the RFS discussion of the 

provision for credit losses on page 72 of this Annual Report.) 
Noninterest expense was $1.6 billion, down by $220 million, or 
12%, from the prior year, reflecting lower default-related expense. 
2009 compared with 2008 
 Real Estate Portfolios
 reported a net loss of $5.4 billion, 
compared with a net loss of $3.4 billion in the prior year.  
Net revenue was $6.5 billion, up by $2.6 billion, or 65%, from the 
prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of the 

Washington Mutual transaction and wider loan spreads, partially 

offset by lower heritage Chase loan balances. 
The provision for credit losses was $13.6 billion, compared with 
$8.6 billion in the prior year. The provision reflected weakness in 

the home equity and mortgage portfolios. (For further detail, see 

the RFS discussion of the provision for credit losses for further 

detail) on pages 72Œ73 of this Annual Report. 
Noninterest expense was $1.8 billion, compared with $889 million 
in the prior year, reflecting higher default-related expense. 
Included within Real Estate Portfolios are PCI loans that the Firm 
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction. For PCI loans, the 

excess of the undiscounted gross cash flows expected to be 

collected over the carrying value of the loans (ﬁthe accretable 

yieldﬂ) is accreted into interest income at a level rate of return over 

the expected life of the loans.  
The net spread between the PCI loans and the related liabilities are 
expected to be relatively constant over time, except for any basis 

risk or other residual interest rate risk that remains and for certain 

changes in the accretable yield percentage (e.g. from extended loan 

liquidation periods and from prepayments). As of December 31, 

2010, the remaining weighted-average life of the PCI loan portfolio 

is expected to be 7.0 years. For further information, see Note 14, 

PCI loans, on pages 233Œ236 of this Annual Report. The loan 

balances are expected to decline more rapidly in the earlier years as 

the most troubled loans are liquidated, and more slowly thereafter 

as the remaining troubled borrowers have limited refinancing 

opportunities. Similarly, default and servicing expense are expected 

to be higher in the earlier years and decline over time as 

liquidations slow down.  
To date the impact of the PCI loans on Real Estate Portfolios™ net 
income has been modestly negative. This is due to the current net 

spread of the portfolio, the provision for loan losses recognized 

subsequent to its acquisition, and the higher level of default and 

servicing expense associated with the portfolio. Over time, the Firm 

expects that this portfolio will contribute positively to net income.

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
78
 Selected metrics
   As of or for the year ended 
 December 31, (in billions) 
 2010
 20092008
Loans excluding PCI loans
(a)
   End-of-period loans owned: 
  Home equity 
 $ 88.4
 $ 101.4$ 
114.3 
Prime mortgage 
  41.7
  47.5 58.7
Subprime mortgage 
  11.3
  12.5 15.3
Option ARMs 
  8.1
  8.5 9.0
Other 
  0.8
  0.7 0.9
Total end
-of
-period loans owned
  $ 150.3
 $ 170.6$ 198.2
Average loans owned: 
 Home equity 
 $ 94.8
 $ 108.3$   99.9
Prime mortgage 
  44.9
  53.4 40.7
Subprime mortgage 
  12.7
  13.9 15.3
Option ARMs 
  8.5
  8.9 2.3
Other 
  1.0
  0.80.9
Total average loans owned
  $ 161.9
 $ 185.3$ 159.1
PCI loans
(a)
   End-of-period loans owned: 
 Home equity 
 $ 24.5
 $   26.5$   28.6
Prime mortgage 
  17.3
  19.7 21.8
Subprime mortgage 
  5.4
  6.0 6.8
Option ARMs 
  25.6
  29.0 31.6
Total end
-of
-period loans owned
  $ 72.8
 $   81.2$   88.8
Average loans owned: 
 Home equity 
 $ 25.5
 $   27.6$     7.1
Prime mortgage 
  18.5
  20.8 5.4
Subprime mortgage 
  5.7
  6.3 1.7
Option ARMs 
  27.2
  30.5 8.0
Total average loans owned
  $ 76.9
 $   85.2$   22.2
Total Real Estate Portfolios
  
  End-of-period loans owned: 
 Home equity 
 $ 112.9
 $ 127.9
$ 142.9 
Prime mortgage 
  59.
0  67.2 80.5
Subprime mortgage 
  16.7
  18.5 22.1
Option ARMs 
  33.7
  37.5 40.6
Other 
  0.8
  0.7 0.9
Total end
-of
-period loans owned
  $ 223.1
 $ 251.8$ 287.0
Average loans owned: 
 Home equity 
 $ 120.3
 $ 135.9$ 107.0
Prime mortgage 
  63
.4
  74.2 46.1
Subprime mortgage 
  18.4
  20.2 17.0
Option ARMs 
  35.7
  39.4 10.3
Other 
  1.0
  0.8 0.9
Total average loans owned
  $ 238.8
 $ 270.5$ 181.3
Average assets 
 $ 227.0
 $ 263.6 $ 179.3
Home equity origination volume 
   1.2
  2.4 16.3
(a)
 PCI loans represent loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction for 
which a deterioration in credit quality occurred between the origination date and 
JPMorgan Chase™s acquisition date. These loans were initially recorded at fair 

value and accrete interest income over the estimated lives of the loans as long 
as cash flows are reasonably estimable, even if the underlying loans are 
contractually past due. 
 Credit data and quality statistics
   
As of or for the year ended 
 December 31, (in millions, except ratios)
 2010
 2009 
2008
 Net charge-offs excluding PCI loans
(a)
:      
Home equity 
$  
3,444
$   
4,682
 $ 2,391 
 Prime mortgage 
1,475
1,872
 521
 Subprime mortgage 
1,374
1,648
 933
 Option ARMs 
98
63
 Š Other 
59
 78   
49
 Total net charge
-offs
 $  
6,450
 $   8,343  $ 
3,894
 Net charge
-off rate excluding 
PCI 
loans
(a)
: 
  Home equity 
3.63
%   
4.32
% 2.39
% Prime mortgage 
3.29
 3.51
 1.28
 Subprime mortgage 
10.82
11.86
 6.10
 Option ARMs 
1.15
0.71
 Š Other 
5.90
   9.75   
5.44
 Total net charge
-off rate 
excluding PCI loans 
3.98
 4.50   
2.45
 Net charge-off rate Œ reported: 
  
Home equity 
2.86
%3.45
% 2.23
% Prime mortgage 
2.33
2.52
 1.13
 Subprime mortgage 
7.47
 8.16
 5.49
 Option ARMs 
0.27
0.16
 Š Other 
5.90
  9.75   
5.44
 Total net charge
-off rate 
Œ  reported 
2.70
 3.08   
2.15
 30+ day delinquency rate excluding
  PCI loans
(b)
 6.45
%  7.73
% 4.97
% Allowance for loan losses 
 $14,659
$ 12,752
 $ 7,510
 Nonperforming assets
(c)
   8,424
  
 10,347
  7,787
 Allowance for loan losses to ending
 loans retained 
6.57
%  5.06
% 2.62
% Allowance for loan losses to ending
  loans retained excluding PCI loans
(a)
 6.47
 6.55
 3.79
 (a)
 Excludes the impact of PCI loans that were acquired as part of the 
Washington Mutual transaction. These loans were accounted for at fair 
value on the acquisition date, which incorporated management™s estimate, 

as of that date, of credit losses over the remaining life of the portfolio. An 
allowance for loan losses of $4.9 billion and $1.6 billion was recorded for 
these loans at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which has also 

been excluded from the applicable ratios. No allowance for loan losses was 
recorded for these loans at December 31, 2008. To date, no charge-offs 
have been recorded for these loans. 
(b)
 The delinquency rate for PCI loans was 28.20%, 27.62% and 17.89% at 
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(c)
 Excludes PCI loans that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual 
transaction, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is 
accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and 
an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of the pools, 

or that of the individual loans within the pools, is not meaningful. 

Because the Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, 
they are all considered to be performing. 
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 79
CARD SERVICES
 Card Services is one of the nation™s largest credit card 
issuers, with over $137 billion in loans and over 90 
million open accounts. Customers used Chase cards to 
meet $313 billion of their spending needs in 2010.  
Chase continues to innovate, despite a very difficult 
business environment, offering products and services 
such as Blueprint, Chase Freedom, Ultimate Rewards, 
Chase Sapphire and Ink from Chase, and earning a 
market leadership position in building loyalty and 
rewards programs. Through its merchant acquiring 
business, Chase Paymentech Solutions, CS is a global 
leader in payment processing and merchant acquiring. 
Selected income statement data Œ managed basis
(a)
 Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
 2010 
        2009  2008 
Revenue 
    
Credit card income 
$ 3,513 
$ 3,612    $ 
2,768 
 All other income
(b)
 (236) 
(692)  (49) 
Noninterest revenue  
3,277 
2,920  2,719 
Net interest income  
13,886 
17,384  13,755 
Total net revenue  
17,163 
20,304  16,474 
Provision for credit losses  
8,037 
18,462  10,059 
Noninterest expense  
   Compensation expense 
1,291 
1,376  1,127 
Noncompensation expense 
4,040 
3,490  3,356 
Amortization of intangibles  
466 
515  657 
Total noninterest expense  5,797 
5,381  5,140 
Income/(loss) before income tax 
expense/(benefit) 
3,329 
(3,539)  1,275 
Income tax expense/(benefit) 
1,255 
(1,314)  495 
Net income/(loss) 
$ 2,074 
$ (2,225)    $ 
780 
 Memo: Net securitization income/(loss) 
 NA 
$ (474)    $ (183) 
Financial ratios 
   ROE 
14% 
(15)%
  5%
 Overhead ratio 
34 
27  31 
(a)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. 
As a result of the consolidation of the securitization trusts, reported and 
managed basis are equivalent for periods beginning after January 1, 2010. See 

Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm™s Use of Non-GAAP Financial 
Measures on pages 64Œ66 of this Annual Report for additional information. 
Also, for further details regarding the Firm™s application and impact of the VIE 

guidance, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(b)
 Includes the impact of revenue sharing agreements with other JPMorgan 

Chase business segments. For periods prior to January 1, 2010, net 

securitization income/(loss) is also included. 
NA:  Not applicable 
2010 compared with 2009  
Net income was $2.1 billion, compared with a net loss of $2.2 billion 
in the prior year. The improved results were driven by a lower 

provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower net revenue. 
End-of-period loans were $137.7 billion, a decrease of $25.7 
billion, or 16%, from the prior year. Average loans were 

$144.4 billion, a decrease of $28.0 billion, or 16%, from the prior 

year. The declines in both end-of-period and average loans were 

due to a decline in lower-yielding promotional balances and the 

Washington Mutual portfolio runoff. 
 Net revenue was $17.2 billion, a decrease of $3.1 billion, or 15%, 

from the prior year. Net interest income was $13.9 billion, down by 

$3.5 billion, or 20%. The decrease in net interest income was driven 

by lower average loan balances, the impact of legislative changes, 

and a decreased level of fees. These decreases were offset partially by 

lower revenue reversals associated with lower charge-offs. 

Noninterest revenue was $3.3 billion, an increase of $357 million, or 

12%, driven by the prior-year write-down of securitization interests, 

offset partially by lower revenue from fee-based products. 
The provision for credit losses was $8.0 billion, compared with 
$18.5 billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected 

lower net charge-offs and a reduction of $6.0 billion to the 

allowance for loan losses due to lower estimated losses. The prior-

year provision included an addition of $2.4 billion to the allowance 

for loan losses. Including the Washington Mutual portfolio, the net 

charge-off rate was 9.72%, including loans held-for-sale, up from 

9.33% in the prior year; and the 30-day delinquency rate was 

4.07%, down from 6.28% in the prior year. Excluding the 

Washington Mutual portfolio, the net charge-off rate was 8.72%, 

including loans held-for-sale, up from 8.45% in the prior year; and 

the 30-day delinquency rate was 3.66%, down from 5.52% in the 

prior year. 
Noninterest expense was $5.8 billion, an increase of $416 million, 
or 8%, due to higher marketing expense. 
Credit Card Legislation  
In May 2009, the CARD Act was enacted. Management estimates 

that the total reduction in net income resulting from the CARD Act 

is approximately $750 million annually. The run-rate impact of this 

reduction in net income is reflected in results as of the end of the 

fourth quarter of 2010. The full year impact on 2010 net income 

was approximately $300 million. 
The most significant effects of the CARD Act include: (a) the 
inability to change the pricing of existing balances; (b) the 

allocation of customer payments above the minimum payment to 

the existing balance with the highest annual percentage rate 

(ﬁAPRﬂ); (c) the requirement that customers opt-in in order to 

receive, for a fee, overlimit protection that permits an authorized 

transaction over their credit limit; (d) the requirement that 

statements must be mailed or delivered not later than 21 days 

before the payment due date; (e) the limiting of the amount of 

penalty fees that can be assessed; and (f) the requirement to review 

customer accounts for potential interest rate reductions in certain 

circumstances. 
As a result of the CARD Act, CS has implemented certain changes 
to its business practices to manage its inability to price loans to 

customers at rates that are commensurate with their risk over time. 

These changes include: (a) selectively increasing pricing; (b) 

reducing the volume and duration of low-rate promotional pricing 

offered to customers; and (c) reducing the amount of credit that is 

granted to certain new and existing customers. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
80
2009 compared with 2008 
The following discussion of CS™s financial results reflects the 

acquisition of Washington Mutual™s credit cards operations as a result 

of the Washington Mutual transaction on September 25, 2008, and 

the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture on 

November 1, 2008. See Note 2 on pages 166Œ170 of this Annual 

Report for more information concerning these transactions. 
Card Services reported a net loss of $2.2 billion, compared with net 
income of $780 million in the prior year. The decrease was driven 

by a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher total 

net revenue. 
End-of-period managed loans were $163.4 billion, a decrease of 
$26.9 billion, or 14%, from the prior year, reflecting lower charge 

volume and a higher level of charge-offs. Average managed loans 

were $172.4 billion, an increase of $9.5 billion, or 6%, from the 

prior year, primarily due to the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction, end-of-period and average managed loans for 2009 

were $143.8 billion and $148.8 billion, respectively.  
Managed total net revenue was $20.3 billion, an increase of $3.8 
billion, or 23%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $17.4 

billion, up by $3.6 billion, or 26%, from the prior year, driven by 

wider loan spreads and the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction. These benefits were offset partially by higher revenue 

reversals associated with higher charge-offs, a decreased level of 

fees, lower average managed loan balances, and the impact of 

legislative changes. Noninterest revenue was $2.9 billion, an 

increase of $201 million, or 7%, from the prior year. The increase 

was driven by higher merchant servicing revenue related to the 

dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture and 

the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partially offset by 

a larger write-down of securitization interests.  
The managed provision for credit losses was $18.5 billion, an 
increase of $8.4 billion from the prior year, reflecting a higher level of 

charge-offs and an addition of $2.4 billion to the allowance for loan 

losses, reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment. The 

managed net charge-off rate was 9.33%, up from 5.01% in the prior 

year. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 6.28%, up from 

4.97% in the prior year. Excluding the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction, the managed net charge-off rate was 8.45%, 

and the 30-day managed delinquency rate was 5.52%. 
Noninterest expense was $5.4 billion, an increase of $241 million, 
or 5%, from the prior year, due to the dissolution of the Chase 

Paymentech Solutions joint venture and the impact of the 

Washington Mutual transaction, partially offset by lower marketing 

expense.  
   
  Selected metrics
     
As of or for the y
ear
 ended 
 December 31, (in millions, except   
   
headcount, 
ratios and where 
 otherwise noted) 
 2010 
 2009    2008 
Financial ratios
(a)
     
Percentage of average ou
tstandings:
     Net interest income 
  9.62
%  10.08%
   8.45%
 Provision for credit losses 
 5.57
  10.71  6.18 
Noninterest revenue 
 2.27
  1.69  1.67 
Risk adjusted margin
(b)  6.32
  1.07  3.94 
Noninterest expense 
 4.02
  3.12  3.16 
Pretax income/(loss) (ROO)
(c)  2.31
  (2.05)  0.78 
Net income/(loss) 
 1.44
  (1.29)  0.48 
Business metrics
    Sales volume (in billions) 
  
$ 313.0
   $ 294.1  $     298.5 
New accounts opened
  11.3
  10.2  14.9 
Open accounts 
 90.7
  93.3  109.5 
Merchant acquiring business
(d)  
   Bank card volume (in billions) 
  
$ 469.3
   $ 409.7  $     713.9 
Total transactions (in billions) 
 20.5
  18.0  21.4 
Selected balance sheet data 
(period-end) 
   Loans:
    Loans on balance sheets 
  
$ 137,676
   $ 78,786  $ 104,746 
Securitized loans
(a)
  NA
  84,626  85,571 
Total
 loans
   
 137,676
    163,412   190,317 
Equity 
  
 15,000
    15,000     15,000 
Selected balance sheet data 
(average) 
   Managed assets 
  
$ 145,750
   $ 192,749  $ 173,711 
Loans:
    Loans on balance sheets 
  
 144,367
    87,029     83,293 
Securitized loans
(a)
  NA 
 85,378  79,566 
Total
 average loa
ns
   
 144,367
    172,407   162,859 
Equity 
  
$ 15,000
   $ 15,000  $   14,326 
Headcount
  20,739
  22,676  24,025 
Credit quality statistics
(a)
   
  Net charge-offs  
  
$ 14,037
   $ 16,077  $     8,159 
Net charge-off rate
(e)(f)
       9.73%
       9.33%
      5.01%
 Delinquency rates
(a)(e)
     30+ day 
  4.07
   6.28      4.97 
90+ day 
  2.22
  3.59      2.34 
Allowance for loan losses
(a)(g)
   $ 11,034
   $ 9,672  $     7,692 
Allowance for loan losses to p
eriod
-end loans
(a)(g)(h)(i)
  8.14%
  12.28%
      7.34%
 Key stats Œ Washington Mutual only
(j)
    
Loans 
  
$ 13,733
   $ 19,653  $ 28,250 
Average loans 
 16,0
55
  23,642 6,964 
Net interest income
(k)
      15.66%
   17.11%
 14.87%
 Risk adjusted margin
(b)(k)
  10.42
   (0.93) 4.18 
Net charge-off rate
(l)
  18.73
  18.79 12.09 
30+ day delinquency rate
(l)
  7.74
  12.72 9.14 
90+ day delinquency rate
(l)
  4.40
  7.76 4.39 
Key stats 
Œ excluding Washin
gton Mutual
   Loans 
 $ 123,943
  $ 143,759  $ 162,067 
Average loans 
 128,312
  148,765  155,895 
Net interest income
(k)
     8.86%
   8.97%
     8.16%
 Risk adjusted margin
(b)(k)
  5.81
  1.39  3.93 
Net charge-off rate 
 8.72
  8.45  4.92 
30+ day delinquency rate 
 3.66
  5.52  4.36 
90+ day delinquency rate 
 1.98
  3.13  2.09 
(a)
  Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to 
VIEs. As a result of the consolidation of the credit card securitization trusts, 
reported and managed basis relating to credit card securitizations are 
equivalent for periods beginning after January 1, 2010. For further details 
regarding the Firm™s application and impact of the guidance, see Note 16 

on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(b)
 Represents total net revenue less provision for credit losses.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 81
(c)
 Pretax return on average managed outstandings. 
(d)
 The Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture was dissolved effective 
November 1, 2008. JPMorgan Chase retained approximately 51% of the 
business and operates the business under the name Chase Paymentech 

Solutions. For the period January 1 through October 31, 2008, the data 
presented represents activity for the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint 
venture, and for the period November 1, 2008, through December 31, 

2010, the data presented represents activity for Chase Paymentech 
Solutions. 
(e)
 Results reflect the impact of purchase accounting adjustments related to the 
Washington Mutual transaction and the consolidation of the WMMT in the 
second quarter of 2009. The delinquency rates as of December 31, 2010, 
were not affected. 
(f)
 Total average loans includes loans held-for-sale of $148 million for full year 
2010. These amounts are excluded when calculating the net charge-off 

rate. The net charge-off rate including loans held-for-sale, which is a non-
GAAP financial measure, would have been 9.72% for the full year 2010. 
(g)
 Based on loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(h) Includes $1.0 billion of loans at December 31, 2009, held by the WMMT, 
which were consolidated onto the Card Services balance sheet at fair value 

during the second quarter of 2009. No allowance for loan losses was 
recorded for these loans as of December 31, 2009. Excluding these 
loans, the allowance for loan losses to period-end loans would have 

been 12.43% as of December 31, 2009. 
(i) Total period-end loans includes loans held-for-sale of $2.2 billion at 
December 31, 2010. No allowance for loan losses was recorded for these 

loans as of December 31, 2010. The loans held-for-sale are excluded when 

calculating the allowance for loan losses to period-end loans. 
(j) Statistics are only presented for periods after September 25, 2008, the date 
of the Washington Mutual transaction. 
(k)
 As a percentage of average managed outstandings. 
(l) Excludes the impact of purchase accounting adjustments related to the 
Washington Mutual transaction and the consolidation of the WMMT in the 

second quarter of 2009. 
NA:  Not applicable 
Reconciliation from reported basis to managed basis 
The financial information presented in the following table reconciles 
reported basis and managed basis to disclose the effect of 

securitizations reported in 2009 and 2008. Effective January 1, 

2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. As a 

result of the consolidation of the credit card securitization trusts, 

reported and managed basis relating to credit card securitizations 

are equivalent for periods beginning after January 1, 2010. For 

further details regarding the Firm™s application and impact of the 

guidance, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
 Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
2010 
2009 2008 
Income stat
ement data
    Credit card income 
   Reported  
  
$ 3,513
   $ 5,106 $      6,082
  Securitization adjustments 
 NA
  (1,494)  (3,314
 ) 
Managed credit card 
 income 
  $ 3,513 
  $ 3,612  $     2,768
  Net interest income
     Reported   
  
$ 13,886
   $ 9,447  $     6,838
  Securitization adjustments 
 NA
  7,937  6,917
  Managed net interest 
income 
  $ 13,886
   $ 17,384  $   13,755
  Total net revenue
     Reported   
  
$  17,163
   $  13,861 $   12,871
  Securitization adjustments 
  NA
  6,443  3,603
  Managed total net 
 revenue 
  $ 17,163
   $ 20,304  $   16,474
  Provision for credit losses
     Reported   
  
$ 8,037
   $ 12,019  $     6,456
  Securitization adjustments 
  NA
   6,443  3,603
  Managed provision for 
 credit losses
   $ 8,037
   $ 18,462  $   10,059
  Balance sheet
 Œ average 
balances
    Total average assets
    Reported   
  
$ 145,750
   $ 110,516 
 $     96,807 
Securitization adjustments 
  NA
   82,233  76,904 
Managed average assets
   
$ 145,750
   $ 192,749 
 $ 173,711 
Credit quality statistics
    Net charg
e-offs
    Reported   
  
$ 14,037
   $ 9,634 
 $     4,556 
Securitization adjustments 
  NA
   6,443  3,603 
Managed net charge
-offs
   
$ 14,037
   $ 16,077 
 $      8,159 
Net charge
-off rates
  Reported   
 9.73
%11.07%
   5.47%
 Securitized 
NA
 7.55  4.53 
Managed net charge
-off 
rate 
9.73
 9.33  5.01 
NA: Not applicable
     The following are brief descriptions of selected business metrics within Card Services. 
    Ł Sales volume 
Œ Dollar amount of cardmember purchases, net of returns.  
   Ł Open accounts 
Œ Cardmember accounts with charging privileges.  
   Ł Merchant acquiring business 
Œ A business that processes bank card transactions for merchants.  
   Ł Bank card volume 
Œ Dollar amount of transactions processed for merchants.  
   Ł Total transactions 
Œ Number of transactions and authorizations processed for merchants. 
  
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
82
COMMERCIAL BANKING 
Commercial Banking delivers extensive industry 
knowledge, local expertise and dedicated service to 
nearly 24,000 clients nationally, including corporations, 
municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profit 
entities with annual revenue generally ranging from  
$10 million to $2 billion, and nearly 35,000 real estate 
investors/owners. CB partners with the Firm™s other 
businesses to provide comprehensive solutions, 
including lending, treasury services, investment  
banking and asset management to meet its  
clients™ domestic and international financial needs.  
Commercial Banking is divided into four primary client segments: 
Middle Market Banking, Commercial Term Lending, Mid-Corporate 
Banking, and Real Estate Banking. Middle Market Banking covers 
corporate, municipal, financial institution and not-for-profit clients, with 
annual revenue generally ranging between $10 million and $500 

million. Mid-Corporate Banking covers clients with annual revenue 
generally ranging between $500 million and $2 billion and focuses on 
clients that have broader investment banking needs. Commercial Term 

Lending primarily provides term financing to real estate investors/ 
owners for multi-family properties as well as financing office, retail and 
industrial properties. Real Estate Banking provides full-service banking 
to investors and developers of institutional-grade real estate properties.  
Selected income stat
ement data
  Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
2010 
2009 2008
Revenue
   Lending- and deposit-
related fees 
   
$ 1,099
     $ 1,081   $   854
Asset management, 
administration and 
commissions 
  144 
  140  113
All other income
(a)
   957 
  596  514
Noninte
rest revenue 
  2,200
   1,817 
 1,481
Net interest income 
 3,840
   3,903 
 3,296
Total net revenue
(b)
  6,040
   5,720 
 4,777
Provision for credit losses 
  297
   1,454  464
Noninterest expense
   Compensation expense 
  820
   776  692
Noncompensation expense 
 1,344
   1,359 
 1,206
Amortization of intangibles 
  35
   41  48
Total noninterest e
xpense 
  2,199
   2,176  1,946 
Income before income tax 
 expense 
 3,544
   2,090  2,367 
Income tax expense  
 1,460
   819  928 
Net income 
    
$ 2,084
     $ 1,271      $
1,439 
 Revenue by product: 
    
Lending  
   
$ 2,749
     $ 2,663      $
1,743 
 Treasury services  
  2,632
   2,642  2,648 
Investment banking  
  466
   394  334 
Other
(c)
  
  193
   21  52 
Total Commercial Banking 
revenue
  
   $ 6,040
     $ 5,720      $4,777 
  
 
   
   
 
   
 
  Selected income statement data
  Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
2010 
2009 2008
IB revenue, gross
(d)    $ 1,335
     $ 1,163 $    966 
Revenue by client segment
: 
  
  Middle Market Banking 
   
$ 3,060
     $ 3,055 $ 2,939 
Commercial Term Lending
(e)
   1,023
   875  243 
Mid-Corporate Banking  
  1,154
   1,102  921 
Real Estate Banking
(e)
   460
   461  413 
Other
(e)(f)
   343
   227  261 
Total Commercial Banking 
revenue
    $ 6,040
     $ 5,720 $ 4,777 
Financial ratios
    ROE  
  26
%   16%  20%
 Overhead ratio  
  36
   38  41 
(a)
 CB client revenue from investment banking products and commercial card 
transactions is included in all other income. 
(b)
 Total net revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments from income tax 
credits related to equity investments in designated community development 
entities that provide loans to qualified businesses in low-income 
communities as well as tax-exempt income from municipal bond activity of 

$238 million, $170 million and $125 million for the years ended December 
31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(c)
 Other product revenue primarily includes tax-equivalent adjustments generated 
from Community Development Banking segment activity and certain income 

derived from principal transactions. 
(d)
 Represents the total revenue related to investment banking products sold to 
CB clients. 
(e)
 2008 results reflect the partial year impact of the Washington Mutual 
transaction. 
(f) Other primarily includes revenue related to the Community Development 
Banking and Chase Capital segments. 
2010 compared with 2009  
Record net income was $2.1 billion, an increase of $813 million, or 
64%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by a reduction in 

the provision for credit losses and higher net revenue.  
Net revenue was a record $6.0 billion, up by $320 million, or 6%, 
compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $3.8 billion, 
down by $63 million, or 2%, driven by spread compression on 

liability products and lower loan balances, predominantly offset by 

growth in liability balances and wider loan spreads. Noninterest 

revenue was $2.2 billion, an increase of $383 million, or 21%, 

from the prior year, reflecting higher net gains from asset sales, 
higher lending-related fees, an improvement in the market 
conditions impacting the value of investments held at fair value, 

higher investment banking fees and increased community 

development investment-related revenue.  
On a client segment basis, revenue from Middle Market Banking 
was $3.1 billion, flat compared with the prior year. Revenue from 
Commercial Term Lending was $1.0 billion, an increase of $148 
million, or 17%, and includes the impact of the purchase of a $3.5 

billion loan portfolio during the third quarter of 2010 and higher 

net gains from asset sales. Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was 

$1.2 billion, an increase of $52 million, or 5%, compared with the 

prior year due to wider loan spreads, higher lending-related fees 
and higher investment banking fees offset partially by reduced loan 
balances. Real Estate Banking revenue was $460 million, flat 

compared with the prior year.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 83
The provision for credit losses was $297 million, compared with 
$1.5 billion in the prior year. The decline was mainly due to 
stabilization in the credit quality of the loan portfolio and 
refinements to credit loss estimates. Net charge-offs were $909 

million (0.94% net charge-off rate), compared with $1.1 billion 
(1.02% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. The allowance for 
loan losses to period-end loans retained was 2.61%, down from 

3.12% in the prior year. Nonaccrual loans were $2.0 billion, a 

decrease of $801 million, or 29%, from the prior year.  
Noninterest expense was $2.2 billion, an increase of $23 million, or 
1%, compared with the prior year reflecting higher headcount-

related expense partially offset by lower volume-related expense. 
2009 compared with 2008  
The following discussion of CB™s results reflects the September 25, 

2008 acquisition of the commercial banking operations of 
Washington Mutual from the FDIC. The Washington Mutual 
transaction added approximately $44.5 billion in loans to the 

Commercial Term Lending, Real Estate Banking, and Other client 
segments in Commercial Banking.  
Net income was $1.3 billion, a decrease of $168 million, or 12%, 
from the prior year, as higher provision for credit losses and 
noninterest expense was partially offset by higher net revenue, 
reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.  
Record net revenue of $5.7 billion increased $943 million, or 20%, 
from the prior year. Net interest income of $3.9 billion increased 
$607 million, or 18%, driven by the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction. Noninterest revenue was $1.8 billion, an 
increase of $336 million, or 23%, from the prior year, reflecting 
higher lending- and deposit-related fees and higher investment 
banking fees and other income.  
On a client segment basis, revenue from Middle Market Banking 
was $3.1 billion, an increase of $116 million, or 4%, from the prior 
year due to higher liability balances, a shift to higher-spread liability 

products, wider loan spreads, higher lending- and deposit-related 
fees, and higher other income, partially offset by a narrowing of 
spreads on liability products and reduced loan balances. Revenue 

from Commercial Term Lending (a new client segment acquired in 
the Washington Mutual transaction encompassing multi-family and 
commercial mortgage loans) was $875 million, an increase of $632 

million. Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $1.1 billion, an 
increase of $181 million, or 20%, driven by higher investment 
banking fees, increased loan spreads, and higher lending- and 

deposit-related fees. Real Estate Banking revenue was $461 
million, an increase of $48 million, or 12%, due to the impact of 
the Washington Mutual transaction.  
The provision for credit losses was $1.5 billion, compared with  
$464 million in the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the 
credit environment, predominantly in real estate-related segments. 
Net charge-offs were $1.1 billion (1.02% net charge-off rate), 

compared with $288 million (0.35% net charge-off rate) in the prior 
year. The allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained 
was 3.12%, up from 2.45% in the prior year. Nonperforming loans 
were $2.8 billion, an increase of $1.8 billion from the prior year. 
Noninterest expense was $2.2 billion, an increase of $230 million, 
or 12%, from the prior year, due to the impact of the Washington 
Mutual transaction and higher FDIC insurance premiums. 
Selected metrics
  Year 
ended December 31, (in millions
, except headcount and ratio data
) 
  2010
 2009
  2008
 Selected balance sheet data 
(period
-end
):
  Loans:
  Loans retained
   
$ 97,900
  $ 
 97,108
  $  115,130
 Loans held
-for
-sale and loans at fair 
value
   1,018
   324
   295
 Total loans
  $    
98,918
  $ 97,432
  $  115,425
 Equity
   8,000
   8,000
   8,000
 Selected balance sheet data 
(average
):
  Total assets
   
$ 133,654
  $ 
 135,408
  $  114,299
 Loans:
  Loans retained
   
$ 96,584
  $ 106,421
  $  81,931
 Loans held
-for
-sale and loans at fair 
value
   422
   317
   406
 Total loans
  $    
97,006
  $ 106,738
  $  82,337
 Liability balances
(a)
   138,862
   113,152
 103,121
 Equity
   8,000
   8,000
      
7,251
 Average loans by 
client segment
:    Middle Market Banking
  $ 
   
35,059
  $ 
 37,459
 $   
42,193
 Commercial Term Len
ding
(b)
   36,978
   36,806
 9,310
 Mid
-Corporate Banking 
   11,926
   15,951
 16,297
 Real Estate Banking
(b)
   9,344
   12,066
 9,008
 Other
(b)
(c)   3,699
   4,456 5,529
 Total Commercial Banking loans
  $  97,006
  $ 106,738
 $   
82,337
 Headcount 
  4,881 
   4,151 5,206
 Credit data and quality stati
stics:
    Net charge
-offs
  $     
 909
  $   
   
1,089
 $        
288
 Nonaccrual 
loans:
    Nonaccrual 
loans r
etained
(d)   1,964
    2,764
 1,026
 Nonaccrual 
loans held
-for
-sale
   and loans held at fair value
   36
    37
 Š Total 
nonaccrual
 loans
   2,000
    2,801
 1,026
 Assets acquired in loan satisfactions
   19
7    188
 116
 Total n
onperforming assets
   2,197
    2,989
 1,142
 Allowance for credit losses:
    Allowance for loan losses
   2,552
    3,025
 2,826
 Allowance for lending
-related
 commitments
   209
    349
 206
  Total allowance for credit losses
   2,761
    3,374
 3,032
 Net charge
-off rate
    0.94%
    
 1.02%
 0.35
% Allowance for loan losses to period
-end 
loans r
etained
     
2.61
     
3.12
 2.45
 Allowance for loan losses to average 
loans r
etained
     
2.64
     
2.84
 3.04
(e)
 Allowance for loan losses 
 to 
nonaccrual
 loans r
etained
   130
   109
 275
 Nonaccrual 
loans to total period
-end 
loans
  2.02
  2.87
 0.8
9 Nonaccrual 
loans to total ave
rage 
loans
  2.06
  2.62
 1.10
(e)
 (a)
  Liability balances include deposits, as well as deposits that are swept to onŒ
balance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial paper, federal funds purchased, time 
deposits and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements) as part of 

customer cash management programs. 
(b)
 2008 results reflect the partial year impact of the Washington Mutual 
transaction. 
(c)
 Other primarily includes lending activity within the Community Development 
Banking and Chase Capital segments. 
(d)
 Allowance for loan losses of $340 million, $581 million and $208 million were 
held against nonaccrual loans retained for the periods ended December 31, 
2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. 
(e)
 Average loans in the calculation of this ratio were adjusted to include $44.5 
billion of loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction as if the 
transaction occurred on July 1, 2008. Excluding this adjustment, the unadjusted 

allowance for loan losses to average loans retained and nonaccrual loans to 
total average loans ratios would have been 3.45% and 1.25%, respectively, for 

the period ended December 31, 2008.
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
84
TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES  
Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in 
transaction, investment and information services. 
TSS is one of the world™s largest cash management 
providers and a leading global custodian. Treasury 
Services provides cash management, trade, 
wholesale card and liquidity products and services to 
small- and mid-sized companies, multinational 
corporations, financial institutions and government 
entities. TS partners with IB, CB, RFS and AM 
businesses to serve clients firmwide. Certain TS 
revenue is included in other segments™ results. 
Worldwide Securities Services holds, values, clears 
and services securities, cash and alternative 
investments for investors and broker-dealers, and 
manages depositary receipt programs globally.  
 Selected income statement data 
 Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratio data) 
 2010 
 2009 2008 
Revenue
    Lending
- and deposit
-related 
fees  
 $ 1,256
  $ 1,285 $ 
1,146 
 Asset management, 
administration and 
commissions 
  2,697
   2,631  3,133 
All other income  
  804
   831  917 
Noninterest revenue 
   4,757
   4,747  5,196 
Net interest income  
  2,624
   2,597  2,938 
Total net revenue 
   7,381
   7,344  8,134 
Provision for credit losses  
  (47)
   55  82 
Credit reimbursement to IB
(a)
  
  (121)
   (121)  (121) 
Noninterest expense  
 Compensation expense  
  2,734
   2,544  2,602 
Noncompensation expense  
  2,790
   2,658  2,556 
Amortization of intangibles  
  80
   76  65 
Total noninterest e
xpense 
   5,604
   5,278  5,223 
Income before income tax 
expense 
  1,703
   1,890  2,708 
Income tax expense  
  624
   664  941 
Net income 
  $ 1,079
  $ 1,226 
 $ 1,767 
Revenue by business 
   Treasury Services
   
 $ 3,698
  $ 3,702 
 $ 3,779 
Worldwide Securities Services
   
  3,683
   3,642  4,355 
Total net revenue 
  $ 7,381
  $ 7,344 
 $ 8,134 
Financial ratios
    
ROE  
 17% 
   
25% 
 47%
 Overhead ratio  
  76
   72  64 
Pretax margin ratio
  
  23
   26  33 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
As of or for the y
ear ended 
December 31,  

(in millions, except headcount) 
 2010
 20092008
Selected balance sheet data 
(period-end)
 Loans
(b)  $  27,168
 $  18,972 $  24,508
Equity  
 6,500
 5,000 4,500
Selected balance sheet data 
(average)
 Total assets  
 $  
42,494
 $  35,963 $  54,563
Loans
(b)  
 23,271
 18,397 26,226
Liability balances  
 248,451
 248,095 279,833
Equity  
 6,500
 5,000 3,751
Headcount 
  29,073
 26,609 27,070
(a) IB credit portfolio group manages certain exposures on behalf of clients 
shared with TSS. TSS reimburses IB for a portion of the total cost of managing 
the credit portfolio. IB recognizes this credit reimbursement as a component 
of noninterest revenue.  
(b) Loan balances include wholesale overdrafts, commercial card and trade 
finance loans.  
 2010 compared with 2009  
Net income was $1.1 billion, a decrease of $147 million, or 12%, 
from the prior year. These results reflected higher noninterest 

expense partially offset by the benefit from the provision for credit 

losses and higher net revenue. 
Net revenue was $7.4 billion, an increase of $37 million, or 1%, 
from the prior year. Treasury Services net revenue was $3.7 billion, 

relatively flat compared with the prior year as lower spreads on 

liability products were offset by higher trade loan and card product 

volumes. Worldwide Securities Services net revenue was $3.7 

billion, relatively flat compared with the prior year as higher market 

levels and net inflows of assets under custody were offset by lower 

spreads in securities lending, lower volatility on foreign exchange, 

and lower balances on liability products.  
TSS generated firmwide net revenue of $10.3 billion, including $6.6 
billion by Treasury Services; of that amount, $3.7 billion was 

recorded in Treasury Services, $2.6 billion in Commercial Banking 

and $247 million in other lines of business. The remaining $3.7 

billion of firmwide net revenue was recorded in Worldwide 

Securities Services. 
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $47 million, 
compared with an expense of $55 million in the prior year. The 

decrease in the provision expense was primarily due to an 

improvement in credit quality. 
Noninterest expense was $5.6 billion, up $326 million, or 6%, from 
the prior year. The increase was driven by continued investment in 

new product platforms, primarily related to international expansion 

and higher performance-based compensation. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 85
2009 compared with 2008 
Net income was $1.2 billion, a decrease of $541 million, or 31%, 

from the prior year, driven by lower net revenue.  
Net revenue was $7.3 billion, a decrease of $790 million, or 10%, 
from the prior year. Worldwide Securities Services net revenue was 

$3.6 billion, a decrease of $713 million, or 16%. The decrease was 

driven by lower securities lending balances, primarily as a result of 

declines in asset valuations and demand, lower balances and 

spreads on liability products, and the effect of market depreciation 

on certain custody assets. Treasury Services net revenue was  

$3.7 billion, a decrease of $77 million, or 2%, reflecting spread 

compression on deposit products, offset by higher trade revenue 

driven by wider spreads and growth across cash management and 

card product volumes. 
TSS generated firmwide net revenue of $10.2 billion, including $6.6 
billion of net revenue in Treasury Services; of that amount, $3.7 

billion was recorded in the Treasury Services business, $2.6 billion 

was recorded in the Commercial Banking business, and $245 million 

was recorded in other lines of business. The remaining $3.6 billion of 

net revenue was recorded in Worldwide Securities Services. 
The provision for credit losses was $55 million, a decrease of $27 
million from the prior year. 
Noninterest expense was $5.3 billion, an increase of $55 million from 
the prior year. The increase was driven by higher FDIC insurance 

premiums, predominantly offset by lower headcount-related expense. 
 Selected metrics
       
Year ended December 31, 
      
(in millions, except ratio data)  
20
10
 2009 2008 
TSS firmwide discl
osures 
    
Treasury Services revenue 
Œ reported 
$    3,698
 $     3,702 $     
3,779 
 Treasury Services revenue 
 reported in CB  
2,632
 2,642 2,648 
Treasury Services revenue 
 reported in other lines of  
business  
247
 245 299 
Treasury Services fir
mwide 
revenue
(a)
 6,577
 6,589 6,726 
Worldwide Securities Se
rvices 
revenue   
3,683
 3,642 4,355 
Treasury & Securitie
s 
Services firmwide 
revenue
(a)
  
$   10,260
 $   10,231 $   11,081 
Treasury Services firmwide liability 
balances (average)
(b)
   
$ 308,028
 $ 274,472 $ 264,195 
Treasury & Securities Se
rvices 
firmwide liability balances  

(average)
(b)
  
 387,313
  361,247 382,947 
TSS firmwide fina
ncial ratios 
    
Treasury Services firmwide 
overhead ratio
(c)
  
55%
 53 
% 50% 
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide overhead ratio
(c)
  
65 62 57 
 Selected metrics 
As of or for the y
ear ended
 Dece
mber 31,  
(in millions, except ratio data and 
where othe
rwise noted)
 2010
 2009 2008 
Firmwide business metrics 
    Assets under custody (in billions) 
 $  
16,120
 $   14,885 $  13,205 
Number of:  
   U.S.$ ACH transactions 
 originated  
3,892
 3,896 4,000 
Total U.S.$ clearing volume 
 (in thousands)  
122,123
 113,476 115,742 
International electronic funds 
transfer volume (in thousands)
(d)
 232,453
 193,348 171,036 
Wholesale check volume  
2,060
 2,184 2,408 
Wh
olesale cards issued 
 (in thousands)
(e)
  
29,785
 27,138 22,784 
Credit data and quality 
statistics 
   Net charge-offs/(recoveries) 
  
$          
1   $          19 $          (2) 
Nonaccrual loans 
12
 14 30 
Allowance for credit losses:    
Allowance for loan losses 
65
 88 74 
Allowance for lending
-related 
    commitments 
51
 84 63 
Total allowance for credit 
losses 
116
 172 137 
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate 
Š% 
0.10
% (0.01)%
 Allowance for loan losses t
o 
period-end loans 
0.24
 0.46 0.30 
Allowance for loan losses to 
average loans 
0.28
 0.48 0.28 
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonaccrual loans 
NM
 NM 247 
Nonaccrual 
loans to period
-end 
loans
 0.04
 0.07 0.12 
Nonaccrual 
loans to ave
rage 
loans
 0.05
 0.08 0.11 
(a) TSS firmwide revenue includes foreign exchange (ﬁFXﬂ) revenue recorded in 
TSS and FX revenue associated with TSS customers who are FX customers of 
IB. However, some of the FX revenue associated with TSS customers who are 
FX customers of IB is not included in TS and TSS firmwide revenue. The total 

FX revenue generated was $636 million, $661 million and $880 million, for 
the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(b) Firmwide liability balances include liability balances recorded in CB.  
(c)  Overhead ratios have been calculated based on firmwide revenue and TSS 
and TS expense, respectively, including those allocated to certain other lines 

of business. FX revenue and expense recorded in IB for TSS-related FX activity 

are not included in this ratio.  
(d) International electronic funds transfer includes non-U.S. dollar Automated 
Clearing House (ﬂACHﬂ) and clearing volume.  
(e)  Wholesale cards issued and outstanding include U.S. domestic commercial, 
stored value, prepaid and government electronic benefit card products.  
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
86
 ASSET MANAGEMENT  
Asset Management, with assets under supervision of 
$1.8 trillion, is a global leader in investment and 
wealth management. AM clients include institutions, 
retail investors and high-net-worth individuals in 
every major market throughout the world. AM offers 
global investment management in equities, fixed 
income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity and 
liquidity, including money market instruments and 
bank deposits. AM also provides trust and estate, 
banking and brokerage services to high-net-worth 
clients, and retirement services for corporations and 
individuals. The majority of AM™s client assets are in 
actively managed portfolios.  
 Selected income statement data
 Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
2010
 2009 2008 
Revenue
    
Asset management, 
administration and 
commissions 
$   6,374
 $   5,621 $   
6,004 
 All other income  
1,111
 751 62 
Noninterest revenue 
 7,485
 6,372 6,066 
Net interest income  
1,499
 1,593 1,518 
Total net revenue 
 8,984
 7,965 7,584 
Provision for credit losses  
86
 188 85 
Noninterest expense 
    
Compensation expense  
3,763
 3,375 3,216 
Noncompensation expense  
2,277
 2,021 2,000 
Amortization of intangibles  
72
 77 82 
Total noninterest e
xpense 
 6,112
 5,473 5,298 
Income before income tax 
 expense 
2,786
 2,304 2,201 
Income tax expense  
1,076
 874 844 
Net income 
 $   
1,710
 $   1,430 $   1,357 
Revenue by client se
gment 
    
Private Banking
(a)
 $   4,860
 $   4,320 $   4,189 
Institutional  
 2,180
  2,065  1,775 
Retail 
1,944
 1,580 1,620 
Total net revenue 
 $   
8,984
 $   7,965 $   7,584 
Financial ratios
    
ROE  
26
% 20%
  24 
% Overhead ratio  
68
 69 70 
Pretax margin ratio
 31
 29 29 
(a) Private Banking is a combination of the previously disclosed client segments: 
Private Bank, Private Wealth Management and JPMorgan Securities. 
 2010 compared with 2009  
Net income was $1.7 billion, an increase of $280 million, or 20%, 
from the prior year, due to higher net revenue and a lower 

provision for credit losses, largely offset by higher noninterest 

expense.  
Net revenue was a record $9.0 billion, an increase of $1.0 billion, 
or 13%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $7.5 billion, 

an increase of $1.1 billion, or 17%, due to the effect of higher 
market levels, net inflows to products with higher margins, higher 

loan originations, and higher performance fees. Net interest income 

was $1.5 billion, down by $94 million, or 6%, from the prior year, 

due to narrower deposit spreads, largely offset by higher deposit 

and loan balances. 
Revenue from Private Banking was $4.9 billion, up 13% from the 
prior year due to higher loan originations, higher deposit and loan 

balances, the effect of higher market levels and net inflows to 

products with higher margins, partially offset by narrower deposit 

spreads. Revenue from Institutional was $2.2 billion, up 6% due to 

the effect of higher market levels, partially offset by liquidity 

outflows. Revenue from Retail was $1.9 billion, up 23% due to the 

effect of higher market levels and net inflows to products with 

higher margins, partially offset by lower valuations of seed capital 

investments.  
The provision for credit losses was $86 million, compared with 
$188 million in the prior year, reflecting an improving credit 

environment. 
Noninterest expense was $6.1 billion, an increase of $639 million, 
or 12%, from the prior year, resulting from increased headcount 

and higher performance-based compensation. 
2009 compared with 2008 
 Net income was $1.4 billion, an increase of $73 million, or 5%, 
from the prior year, due to higher total net revenue, offset largely 

by higher noninterest expense and provision for credit losses.  
Total net revenue was $8.0 billion, an increase of $381 million, or 
5%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $6.4 billion, an 
increase of $306 million, or 5%, due to higher valuations of seed 
capital investments and net inflows, offset largely by lower market 

levels. Net interest income was $1.6 billion, up by $75 million, or 

5%, from the prior year, due to wider loan spreads and higher 
deposit balances, offset partially by narrower deposit spreads.  
Revenue from Private Banking was $4.3 billion, up 3% from the 
prior year due to wider loan spreads and higher deposit balances, 

offset largely by the effect of lower market levels. Revenue from 
Institutional was $2.1 billion, up 16% due to higher valuations of 
seed capital investments and net inflows, offset partially by the 

effect of lower market levels. Revenue from Retail was $1.6 billion, 

down 2% due to the effect of lower market levels, offset largely by 
higher valuations of seed capital investments. 
The provision for credit losses was $188 million, an increase of 
$103 million from the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in 
the credit environment.  
Noninterest expense was $5.5 billion, an increase of $175 million, 
or 3%, from the prior year due to the effect of the Bear Stearns 
merger, higher performance-based compensation and higher FDIC 
insurance premiums, offset largely by lower headcount-related 

expense.
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 87
Selected metrics 
      
As of or for the y
ear e
nded 
December 31, (in millions,  
     
except hea
dcount, ranking 
data, and where otherwise 
noted) 
2010 
2009 2008 
Business metrics
   Number of: 
  
Client advisors 
2,245
 1,934
   1,840 
Retirement planning 
    services participants  

   (in thousands) 
1,580 
1,628
   1,531 
JPMorgan Securities
     brokers
(a)
 415 
376
   324 
% of customer assets in 4 & 
 5 Star Funds
(b)
  49%
 42
 %  42%
 % of AUM in 1
st
 and 2
nd
  
quartiles:
(c)
      
1 year 
67
% 57
 %  54%
 3 years 
72
% 62
 %  65%
 5 years 
80
% 74
 %  76%
 Selected balance sheet 
data (period-end) 
     
Loans 
 $ 
 44,084
  $  37,755
   $ 36,188 
Equity 
6,500
 7,000
   7,000 
Selected balance sheet 
data (average) 
     
Total assets 
 $ 65,056
  $   60,249
   $ 65,550 
Loans 
38,948
 34,963
   38,124 
Deposits 
86,096
 77,005
   70,179 
Equity 
6,500
 7,000
   5,645 
Headcount
 16,918 
15,136
   15,339 
Credit data and quality 
statistics
      
Net charge-offs 
 $      
 76
  $        117
   $ 11 
Nonaccrual loans 
375
 580
   147 
Allowance for credit losses: 
     
Allowance for loan losses 
267
 269
   191 
Allowance for lending
-   related commitments 
4 
9   5 
Total allowance for credit 
losses 
 $    271 
 $        278
   $ 196 
Net charge-off rate 
       0.20%
             0.33
 %            0.03
 % Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans 
0.61
0.71
   0.53 
Allowance for loan losses to 
average loans 
0.69
0.77
   0.50 
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonaccrual loans 
71
46
   130 
Nonaccrual 
loans to perio
d-end loans 
0.85
1.54
   0.41 
Nonaccrual 
loans to average 
loans 
0.96
1.66
   0.39 
 (a)  JPMorgan Securities was formerly known as Bear Stearns Private Client 
Services prior to January 1, 2010.  
(b) Derived from Morningstar for the U.S., the U.K., Luxembourg, France, Hong 
Kong and Taiwan; and Nomura for Japan. 
(c) Quartile ranking sourced from: Lipper for the U.S. and Taiwan; Morningstar for 
the U.K., Luxembourg, France and Hong Kong; and Nomura for Japan. 
  
  AM™s client segments comprise the following:  
Private Banking
 offers investment advice and wealth 
management services to high- and ultra-high-net-worth 
individuals, families, money managers, business owners and small 
corporations worldwide, including investment management, 
capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning, 
banking, capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services. 
Institutional
 brings comprehensive global investment services Œ 
including asset management, pension analytics, asset-liability 
management and active risk-budgeting strategies Œ to corporate 
and public institutions, endowments, foundations, not-for-profit 
organizations and governments worldwide. 
Retail
 provides worldwide investment management services and 
retirement planning and administration, through third-party and 
direct distribution of a full range of investment vehicles. 
 J.P. Morgan Asset Management has two high-level 
measures of its overall fund performance. 
 Ł  Percentage of assets under management in funds rated 4 and 5 
stars (three year). Mutual fund rating services rank funds based 
on their risk-adjusted performance over various periods. A 5 
star rating is the best and represents the top 10% of industry 
wide ranked funds. A 4 star rating represents the next 22% of 
industry wide ranked funds. The worst rating is a 1 star rating. 
Ł Percentage of assets under management in first- or second- 
quartile funds (one, three and five years). Mutual fund rating 
services rank funds according to a peer-based performance 
system, which measures returns according to specific time and 
fund classification (small-, mid-, multi- and large-cap). 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
88
Assets under supervision 
2010 compared with 2009  
As
sets under supervision were $1.8 trillion at December 31, 2010, 
an increase of $139 billion, or 8%, from the prior year. Assets 

under management were $1.3 trillion, an increase of $49 billion, or 

4%, due to the effect of higher market levels and net inflows in 

long-term products, largely offset by net outflows in liquidity 

products. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit balances 

were $542 billion, up by $90 billion, or 20%, due to custody and 

brokerage inflows and the effect of higher market levels. The Firm 

also has a 41% interest in American Century Companies, Inc., 

whose AUM totaled $103 billion and $86 billion at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively; these are excluded from the AUM 

above. 
2009 compared with 2008 
Assets under supervision were $1.7 trillion at December 31, 2009, 

an increase of $205 billion, or 14%, from the prior year. Assets 

under management were $1.2 trillion, an increase of $116 billion, 

or 10%, from the prior year. The increases were due to the effect of 

higher market valuations and inflows in fixed income and equity 

products offset partially by outflows in cash products. Custody, 

brokerage, administration and deposit balances were $452 billion, 

up by $89 billion, due to the effect of higher market levels on 

custody and brokerage balances, and brokerage inflows in Private 

Banking. The Firm also had a 42% interest in American Century 

Companies, Inc. at December 31, 2009, whose AUM totaled $86 

billion and $70 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively; these are excluded from the AUM above. 
Assets under supervision
(a)
  As of or for the year ended 
 December 31, (in billions) 
2010
 2009
 2008
 Assets by asset class
  Liquidity 
 $    
497
 $    591
 $   613
 Fixed income  
  289
  226
 180
 Equities and multi-asset 
  404
  339
 240
 Alternatives 
  108
  93
 100
 Total assets under ma
nagement 
  1,298
  1,249
 1,133
 Custody/brokerage/administration/
    deposits 
  542
  452
 363
 Total assets under superv
ision 
  $ 1,840
 $ 1,701
 $ 1,496
 Assets by client segment   
  Private Banking
(b)
  $ 284
 $ 270
 $    258
 Institutional 
     
686
     709
     681
 Retail 
  32
8  270
 194
 Total assets under ma
nagement 
 $ 1,298
 $ 1,249
 $ 1,133
 Private Banking
(b)
  $ 731
 $ 636
 $    552
 Institutional 
     
687
     710
     682
 Retail 
  422
  355
 262
 Total assets under superv
ision 
  $ 1,840
 $ 1,701
 $ 1,496
   Assets by geographic r
egion
  December 31, (in billions) 
  20
10
   2009    200
8U.S./Canada  
 $  862
  $ 837  $    
798
 International 
   436
   412   
335
 Total assets under manag
ement
  $  1,298
  $ 1,249  $ 
1,133
 U.S./Canada  
 $  1,271
  $ 1,182  $ 
1,084
 International 
   569
   519   
412
 Total assets under superv
ision
  $  1,840
  $ 1,701  $ 
1,496
 Mutual fund assets by  
asset class
   
 Liquidity 
 $  446
  $    539  $    
553
 Fixed income 
   92
   67   
41
 Equities and multi-asset 
   169
   143   
92
 Alternatives 
   7   9   
7 Total mutual fund assets
  $  714
  $    758  $    
693
 Assets under management  
rollforward  
   Year ended December 31, 
 (in billions) 
  2010 
  2009    
2008 
 Beginning balance, January 1 
 $  1,249
  $ 1,133  $ 1,
193
 Net asset flows:
    Liquidity 
  (89)
   (23)
   
210
 Fixed income 
   50
   34   
(12
) 
Equities, multi
-asset and 
   alternatives 
   19
   17   
(47
) 
Market/performance/other impacts
(c)    69
   88   
(211
) 
Ending balance, D
ecember 31
  $  1,298
  $ 1,249  $ 
1,133
 Assets under superv
ision 
 rollforward
   
 Beginning balance, January 1 
 $  1,701
  $ 1,496  $ 
1,572
 Net asset flows 
   28
   50   
181
 Market/performance/other impacts
(c)    111
   155   
(257
) 
Ending balance, D
ecember 31
  $  1,840
  $ 1,701  $ 
1,496
 (a) Excludes assets under management of American Century Companies, Inc., in 
which the Firm had a 41%, 42% and 43% ownership at December 31, 2010, 
2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(b) Private Banking is a combination of the previously disclosed client segments: 
Private Bank, Private Wealth Management and JPMorgan Securities. 
(c) Includes $15 billion for assets under management and $68 billion for assets 
under supervision, which were acquired in the Bear Stearns merger in the 
second quarter of 2008. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 89
 CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY
The Corporate/Private Equity sector comprises Private 
Equity, Treasury, the Chief Investment Office, corporate 
staff units and expense that is centrally managed. 
Treasury and the Chief Investment Office manage capital, 
liquidity and structural risks of the Firm. The corporate 
staff units include Central Technology and Operations, 
Internal Audit, Executive Office, Finance, Human 
Resources, Marketing & Communications, Legal & 
Compliance, Corporate Real Estate and General Services, 
Risk Management, Corporate Responsibility and Strategy 
& Development. Other centrally managed expense 
includes the Firm™s occupancy and pension-related 
expense, net of allocations to the business. 
Selected income statement data
 Year ended D
ecember 31, 
 (in millions, except headcount) 
20
10
 200
9 2008
  Revenue
     Principal transactions
(a)
 $  
2,208
 $  1,574
 $ (3,588
 ) 
Securities gains
(b) 2,898
 1,139
 1,637
  All other income
(c) 253
 58
 1,673
  Noninterest revenue
 5,359
 2,
771
 (278
 ) 
Net interest income 
2,063
 3,863
 347
  Total net revenue
(d)
 7,422
 6,634
 69
  Provision for credit losses 
14
  
80
 447
 (j)
 Provision for credit losses 
Œ  accounting conformity
(e)
 Š  
Š 1,534
  Noninterest expense 
    Compensation expense 
2,357
 2,811
 2,340
  Noncompensation expense
(f)
 8,788
 3,597
 1,841
  Merger costs 
Š 481
 432
  Subtotal
 11,145
 6,889
 4,613
  Net expense allocated to other 
businesses 
(4,790
) 
(4,994
) (4,641
 ) 
Total noninte
rest e
xpense
 6,355
 1,895
 (28
 ) 
Income/(loss) before i
ncome 
 tax expense/(benefit) and 
 extraordinary gain 
1,053
 4,659
 (1,884
 ) 
Income tax expense/(benefit)
(g)
 (205
) 
1,705
 (535
 ) 
Income/(loss) before 
 extraordinary gain 
1,258
 2,954
 (1,349
 ) 
Extraordinary gain
(h)
 Š 76
 1,906
  Net income
 $  
1,258
 $  
3,030
 $     557
  Total net revenue 
  
  Private equity 
$  1,239
 $       
18
 $    (963
 ) 
Corporate 
6,183
 6,616
 1,032
  Total net revenue
 $  7,422
 $  
6,634
 $       69
  Net income/(loss) 
  
  Private equity 
$     588
 $      
(78
) $    (690
 ) 
Corporate
(i)
 670
 3,
108
 1,247
  Total net income
 $  
1,258
 $  
3,030
 $     557
  Headcount
 20,030
 20,11
9 23,376
  (a) Included losses on preferred equity interests in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 
2008.  
(b) Included gain on sale of MasterCard shares in 2008. 
(c) Included a gain from the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint 
venture and proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initial public offering in 
2008.  
(d) Total net revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments, predominantly due to 
tax-exempt income from municipal bond investments of $226 million, $151 
million and $57 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(e) Represents an accounting conformity credit loss reserve provision related to the 
acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank™s banking operations. 
(f) Includes litigation expense of $5.7 billion for 2010, compared with net benefits 
of $0.3 billion and $1.0 billion for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Included in the 
net benefits were a release of credit card litigation reserves in 2008 and 

insurance recoveries related to settlement of the Enron and WorldCom class 
action litigations. Also included a $675 million FDIC special assessment during 
2009.  
(g) Includes tax benefits recognized upon the resolution of tax audits. 
(h) On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of 
Washington Mutual Bank. The acquisition resulted in negative goodwill, and 
accordingly, the Firm recognized an extraordinary gain. A preliminary gain of 
$1.9 billion was recognized at December 31, 2008. The final total extraordinary 
gain that resulted from the Washington Mutual transaction was $2.0 billion. 
(i) 2009 and 2008 included merger costs and the extraordinary gain related to the 
Washington Mutual transaction, as well as items related to the Bear Stearns 

merger, including merger costs, asset management liquidation costs and 

JPMorgan Securities broker retention expense. 
(j) In November 2008, the Firm transferred $5.8 billion of higher quality credit card 
loans from the legacy Chase portfolio to a securitization trust previously 

established by Washington Mutual (ﬁthe Trustﬂ). As a result of converting higher 

credit quality Chase-originated on-book receivables to the Trust™s seller™s interest 
which had a higher overall loss rate reflective of the total assets within the Trust, 
approximately $400 million of incremental provision expense was recorded 

during the fourth quarter of 2008. This incremental provision expense was 
recorded in the Corporate segment as the action related to the acquisition of 
Washington Mutual's banking operations. For further discussion of credit card 

securitizations, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
2010 compared with 2009 
Net income was $1.3 billion compared with $3.0 billion in the prior 
year. The decrease was driven by higher litigation expense, partially 

offset by higher net revenue. 
Net income for Private Equity was $588 million, compared with a 
net loss of $78 million in the prior year, reflecting the impact of 

improved market conditions on certain investments in the portfolio. 

Net revenue was $1.2 billion compared with $18 million in the 

prior year, reflecting private equity gains of $1.3 billion compared 

with losses of $54 million. Noninterest expense was $323 million, 

an increase of $182 million, driven by higher compensation 

expense. 
Net income for Corporate was $670 million, compared with $3.1 
billion in the prior year. Current year results reflect after-tax 

litigation expense of $3.5 billion, lower net interest income and 

trading gains, partially offset by a higher level of securities gains, 

primarily driven by repositioning of the portfolio in response to 

changes in the interest rate environment and to rebalance 

exposure. The prior year included merger-related net loss of $635 

million and a $419 million FDIC assessment. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
90
2009 compared with 2008  
Net income was $3.0 billion compared with $557 million in the  

prior year. The increase was driven by higher net revenue, partially 

offset by higher litigation expense. 
Net loss for Private Equity was $78 million compared with a net 
loss of $690 million in the prior year. Net revenue was $18 million, 

an increase of $981 million, reflecting private equity losses of $54 

million compared with losses of $894 million. Noninterest expense 

was $141 million, an increase of $21 million. 
Net income for Corporate, including merger-related items, was $3.1 
billion, compared with $1.2 billion in the prior year. Results in 2009 

reflected higher levels of trading gains, net interest income and an 

after-tax gain of $150 million from the sale of MasterCard shares, 

partially offset by $635 million merger-related losses, a $419 million 

FDIC special assessment, lower securities gains and the absence of 

the $1.9 billion extraordinary gain related to the Washington 

Mutual merger in 2008. Trading gains and net interest income 

increased due to the Chief Investment Office™s (ﬁCIOﬂ) significant 

purchases of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S. 

government agencies, corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury and 

government agency securities and other asset-backed securities. 

These investments were generally associated with the management 

of interest rate risk and investment of cash resulting from the excess 

funding the Firm continued to experience during 2009. The increase 

in securities was partially offset by sales of higher-coupon instruments 

(part of repositioning the investment portfolio) as well as 

prepayments and maturities.  
After-tax results in 2008 included $955 million in proceeds from the 
sale of Visa shares in its initial public offering and $627 million from 

the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture. 

These items were partially offset by losses of $642 million on 

preferred securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a $248 million 

charge related to the offer to repurchase auction-rate securities and 

$211 million net merger costs. 
Treasury and CIO
 Selected income statement and balance sheet data  
As of or for the year ende
d December 31,
    (in millions) 
 20
10
  2009 2008
 Securities gains
(a)
 $    2,897
 $    1,147 $ 1,652
 Investment securities portfolio (average) 
 323,673
  324,037  113,010
 Investment securities portfolio (ending) 
 310,801
  340,163  192,564
 Mortgage loans (average) 
 9,004
  7,427  7,059
 Mortgage loans (ending) 
 10,739
  8,023  7,292
 (a)
 Results for 2008 included a gain on the sale of MasterCard shares. All periods 
reflect repositioning of the Corporate investment securities portfolio. 
For further information on the investment securities portfolio, see 
Note 3 and Note 12 on pages 170Œ187 and 214Œ218, respectively, 
of this Annual Report. For further information on CIO VaR and the 

Firm™s earnings-at-risk, see the Market Risk Management section 

on pages 142Œ146 of this Annual Report.
Private Equity Portfolio
 Selected income statement and balance sheet data  
 As of or for the y
ear ended December 31,
     (in millions) 
 2010
  2009 2008
  Private equity 
gains/(losses)
   
  Realized gains 
  
$ 1,409
    $ 109  $ 1,717
  Unrealized gains/(losses)
(a)
  (302)
  (81)
 (2,480
 ) Total direct inves
tments
  1,107
  28 (763
 ) Third-party fund investments  
 241
  (82)
 (131
 ) Total private equity gains/(losses)
(b)   $ 1,348
    $ (54)
  $   (894
 ) Private equity portfolio information
(c)
    Direct investments
   
 Publicly held secur
ities
   
 Carrying value 
  
$ 875
    $ 762 $    483
 Cost 
  732
   743 792
 Quoted public value 
  935
   791 543
 Privately held direct securities
   
 Carrying value 
  5,882
   5,104 5,564
 Cost 
  6,887
   5,959 6,296
 Third-party fund investments
(d)
    Carrying value 
  1,980
   1,459 805
 Cost 
  2,404
   2,079 1,169
 Total private equity portfolio 
   
 Carrying value 
  
$ 8,737
    $ 7,325 $ 6,852
 Cost 
  
$10,023
    $ 8,781 $ 8,257
  (a) Unrealized gains/(losses) contain reversals of unrealized gains and losses that were 
recognized in prior periods and have now been realized. 
(b) Included in principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
(c) For more information on the Firm™s policies regarding the valuation of the private 
equity portfolio, see Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this Annual Report. 
(d) Unfunded commitments to third-party equity funds were $1.0 billion, $1.5 billion and 
$1.4 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
2010 compared with 2009 
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December 31, 
2010, was $8.7 billion, up from $7.3 billion at December 31, 2009.  

The portfolio increase was primarily due to incremental follow-on 

investments. The portfolio represented 6.9% of the Firm™s 

stockholders™ equity less goodwill at December 31, 2010, up from 

6.3% at December 31, 2009. 
2009 compared with 2008  
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December 31, 

2009, was $7.3 billion, up from $6.9 billion at December 31, 2008. 

The portfolio increase was primarily driven by additional follow-on 

investments and net unrealized gains on the existing portfolio, 

partially offset by sales during 2009. The portfolio represented 

6.3% of the Firm™s stockholders™ equity less goodwill at December 

31, 2009, up from 5.8% at December 31, 2008. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 91
INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS 
In 2010, the Firm reported approximately $22.2 billion of revenue 
involving clients, customers and counterparties residing outside of 
the United States. Of that amount, approximately 64% was derived 
from Europe/Middle East/Africa (ﬁEMEAﬂ), approximately 26% 

from Asia Pacific, approximately 8% from Latin America/Caribbean, 
and the balance from other geographies outside the United States.  
The Firm is committed to further expanding its wholesale 
businesses (IB, AM and TSS) outside the United States and intends 

to add additional client-serving bankers, as well as product and 

sales support personnel, to address the needs of the Firm™s clients 
located in these regions. With a comprehensive and coordinated 

international business strategy and growth plan, efforts and 

investments for growth will be accelerated and prioritized. 
Set forth below are certain key metrics related to the Firm™s 
wholesale international operations including, for each of EMEA, 
Latin America/Caribbean and Asia Pacific, the number of countries 

in each such region in which it operates, front office headcount, 

number of clients and selected revenue and balance sheet data. For 

additional information regarding international operations, see Note 

33 on page 290 of this Annual Report. 
Asia Pacific 
 Latin America/ 
Caribbean 
 EMEA 
 · 2010 revenue of $5.8 billion 
·  2005 Œ 2010 CAGR: 15% 
· Operating in 16 countries in the 
region 
·  6 new offices opened in 2010 
· Headcount of 15,419
(a)
 ·  4,366 front office 
· 450+ significant clients
(b)
 · $49.1 billion in deposits
(c)
 · $20.6 billion in loans outstanding
(d)
 · $118 billion in AUM 
   · 2010 revenue of $1.8 billion 
·  2005 Œ 2010 CAGR: 13% 
· Operating in 8 countries in the 
region 
·  2 new offices opened in 2010 
· Headcount of 1,770
(a)
 ·  1,024 front office 
· 160+ significant clients
(b)
 · $1.7 billion in deposits
(c)
 · $16.5 billion in loans outstanding
(d)
 · $32 billion in AUM 
   · 2010 revenue of $14.1 billion 
·  2005 Œ 2010 CAGR: 13% 
· Operating in 33 countries in the 

region 
·  5 new offices opened in 2010 
· Headcount of 16,312
(a)
 ·  6,192 front office 
· 940+ significant clients
(b)
 · $135.8 billion in deposits
(c)
 · $27.9 billion in loans outstanding
(d)
 · $281 billion in AUM 
 (a)
 Total headcount includes employees and, in certain cases, contractors whose functions are considered integral to the operations of the business. 
Employees in offshore service centers supporting line of business operations in each region are also included. 
(b)
 Significant clients defined as a company with over $1 million in international revenue in the region (excludes private banking clients). 
(c)
 Deposits reflect average balances and are based on booking location. 
(d)
 Loans outstanding reflect period-end balances, are based on client domicile, and exclude loans held-for-sale and loans carried at fair value. 
The following graphs provide the wholesale international revenue and net income for the periods indicated. 
(a) Based on wholesale international operations (RFS and CS are excluded from this analysis).  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
92
 BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS 
Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets data
 December 31, (in millions) 
 2010
 2009
 Assets
  Cash and due from banks 
 $ 27,567
 $      
26,206
 Deposits with banks  
  21,673
  63,230
 Federal funds sold and securiti
es 
purchased under resale 
agreements 
  222,554 
 195,404
 Securities borrowed 
  123,587
  119,630
 Trading assets: 
  Debt and equity instruments 
  409,411
  330,918
 Derivative receivables 
  80,481
  80,210
 Securities 
  316,336
  360,390
 Loans 
  692,92
7  633,458
 Allowance for loan losses 
  (32,266)
  (31,602
) 
Loans, net of allowance for loan 
losses 
  660,661 
 601,856
 Accrued interest and accounts 
receivable   
  70,147 
 67,427
 Premises and equipment    
  13,355
  11,118
 Goodwill   
  48,854
  48,35
7 Mortgage servicing rights 
  13,649
  15,531
 Other intangible assets 
  4,039
  4,621
 Other assets  
  105,291
  107,091
 Total assets
  $ 2,117,605
 $ 
2,031,989
 Liabilities
   Deposits 
 $ 930,369
 $    
938,367
 Federal funds purchased and 
securities loaned or sold under 

repurchase agreements 
  276,644 
 261,413
 Commercial paper  
  35,363
  41,794
 Other borrowed funds  
  57,309
  55,740
 Trading liabilities: 
    Debt and equity instruments 
  76,947
  64,946
 Derivative payables 
  69,219
  60,125
 Accounts payable and other liabilities
   170,330
  162,696
 Beneficial interests issued by 
consolidated VIEs 
  77,649 
 15,225
 Long-term debt  
  247,669
  266,318
 Total liabilities
   1,941,499
  1,866,624
 Stockholders™ equity 
  176,106
  165,365
 Total li
abilities and 
stockholders™ equity  $ 2,117,605 
$ 
2,031,989
  Consolidated Balance Sheets overview  
Total assets were $2.1 trillion, up by $85.6 billion from December 
31, 2009. The increase was primarily a result of higher trading 

assets Œ debt and equity instruments, principally due to improved 

market activity; higher loans, largely due to the January 1, 2010, 

adoption of accounting guidance related to VIEs; and higher federal 

funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements, 
predominantly due to higher financing volume in IB. These 
increases were partially offset by a reduction in deposits with 
banks, as market stress eased from the end of 2009. 
Total liabilities were $1.9 trillion, up by $74.9 billion. The increase 
was predominantly a result of higher beneficial interests issued by 

consolidated VIEs, due to the adoption of the accounting guidance 
related to VIEs. 
Stockholders™ equity was $176.1 billion, up by $10.7 billion. The 
increase was driven predominantly by net income, partially offset by 

the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles as a result 

of the adoption of the accounting guidance related to the 
consolidation of VIEs. 
The following is a discussion of the significant changes in the 
specific line captions of the Consolidated Balance Sheets from 

December 31, 2009. 
 Deposits with banks; federal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements; and securities  
borrowed  

The Firm uses these instruments as part of its liquidity management 

activities; to manage its cash positions and risk-based capital 

requirements; and to support its trading and risk management 

activities. In particular, securities purchased under resale 
agreements and securities borrowed are used to provide funding or 
liquidity to clients by purchasing and borrowing their securities for 

the short term. The decrease in deposits with banks was largely due 

to lower deposits with the Federal Reserve Banks and lower 

interbank lending, as market stress eased from the end of 2009. 

Securities purchased under resale agreements increased, 
predominantly due to higher financing volume in IB. For additional 
information on the Firm™s Liquidity Risk Management, see pages 
110Œ115 of this Annual Report.
  
Trading assets and liabilities Œ debt and equity  
instruments 

Debt and equity trading instruments are used primarily for market-

making activity. These instruments consist predominantly of fixed-

income securities, including government and corporate debt; equity 
securities, including convertible securities; loans, including prime 
mortgage and other loans warehoused by RFS and IB for sale or 

securitization purposes and accounted for at fair value; and physical 

commodities inventories carried at the lower of cost or fair value. 

Trading assets Œ debt and equity instruments increased, principally 

due to improved market activity, primarily in equity securities, 
foreign debt and physical commodities. Trading liabilities Œ debt 
and equity instruments increased, largely due to higher levels of 

positions to facilitate customer trading. For additional information, 
refer to Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this Annual Report. 
Trading assets and liabilities Œ derivative receivables and 
payables  

The Firm uses derivative instruments predominantly for market-

making activity. Derivatives enable customers and the Firm to 
manage their exposures to fluctuations in interest rates, currencies 
and other markets. The Firm also uses derivative instruments to 

manage its credit exposure. Derivative receivables were flat 

compared with the prior year. Derivative payables increased, 

reflecting tighter credit spreads, appreciation of the U.S. dollar and 

higher commodity derivatives balances (driven by increasing 
commodity prices and the RBS Sempra acquisition). For additional 
information, refer to Derivative contracts on pages 125Œ128, and 

Note 3 and Note 6 on pages 170Œ187 and 191Œ199, respectively, 
of this Annual Report.
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 93
Securities 
Substantially all of the securities portfolio is classified as available-

for-sale (ﬁAFSﬂ) and used primarily to manage the Firm™s exposure 

to interest rate movements and to invest cash resulting from excess 
funding positions. Securities decreased, largely due to repositioning 
of the portfolio in Corporate, in response to changes in the interest 

rate environment and to rebalance exposures. The repositioning 

reduced U.S. government agency securities and increased non-U.S. 

mortgage-backed securities. The adoption of the new accounting 

guidance related to VIEs, which resulted in the elimination of 
retained AFS securities issued by Firm-sponsored credit card 
securitization trusts, also contributed to the decrease. For 

information related to securities, refer to the Corporate/Private 

Equity segment on pages 89Œ90, and Note 3 and Note 12 on 
pages 170Œ187 and 214Œ218, respectively, of this Annual Report.
 Loans and allowance for loan losses 
The Firm provides loans to a variety of customers, from large 

corporate and institutional clients to individual consumers. Loans and 
the allowance for loan losses increased as a result of the Firm™s 
adoption of accounting guidance related to VIEs at January 1, 2010. 

Excluding the impact of the adoption of the new accounting 

guidance, loans decreased due to the continued runoff of the 

residential real estate loans and credit card balances. The decrease 

was partially offset by an increase in wholesale loans, mainly in TSS 

and AM.  
The allowance for loan losses, excluding the impact of this adoption, 
decreased primarily due to a decline in the credit card and wholesale 
allowance. The decrease was offset partially by an increase in the 
consumer (excluding credit card) allowance. 
For a more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the 
allowance for loan losses, refer to Credit Risk Management on 

pages 116Œ141, and Notes 3, 4, 14 and 15 on pages 170Œ187, 

187Œ189, 220Œ238 and 239Œ243, respectively, of this Annual 
Report. 
Accrued interest and accounts receivable 
This line caption consists of accrued interest receivables from 
interest-earning assets; receivables from customers (primarily from 
activities related to IB™s Prime Services business); receivables from 

brokers, dealers and clearing organizations; and receivables from 

failed securities sales. Accrued interest and accounts receivable 

increased, reflecting higher customer receivables in IB™s Prime 

Services business due to increased client activity. The increase was 
offset partially by the elimination of retained securitization interests 
upon the adoption of the new accounting guidance that resulted in 

the consolidation of Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts. 

For a more detailed discussion of the adoption, see Note 1 and 

Note 16 on pages 164Œ165 and 244Œ259, respectively, of this 
Annual Report. 
Premises and equipment  
The Firm™s premises and equipment consist of land, buildings, 

leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, hardware and 

software, and other equipment. The increase in premises and 
equipment was primarily due to the purchase of two buildings, one 
in New York and one in London; investments in hardware, software 

and other equipment also contributed to the increase. The increase 

was partially offset by the related depreciation and amortization of 
these assets.
 Goodwill 
Goodwill arises from business combinations and represents the 

excess of the purchase price of an acquired entity or business over 
the fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  
The increase in goodwill was largely due to the acquisition of RBS 

Sempra Commodities™ global oil, global metal, and European power 

and gas businesses by IB; and the purchase of a majority interest in 

Gávea Investimentos, a leading alternative asset management 

company in Brazil, by AM. For additional information on goodwill, 

see Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of this Annual Report.  
Mortgage servicing rights 
MSRs represent the fair value of future cash flows for performing 
specified mortgage-servicing activities (predominantly related to 

residential mortgages) for others. MSRs are either purchased from 

third parties or retained upon the sale or securitization of mortgage 

loans. Servicing activities include collecting principal, interest and 

escrow payments from borrowers; making tax and insurance 
payments on behalf of borrowers; monitoring delinquencies and 
executing foreclosure proceedings; and accounting for and 

remitting principal and interest payments to the related investors of 

the mortgage-backed securities. MSRs decreased, predominantly 

due to a significant decline in market interest rates during 2010, as 

well as from servicing portfolio runoff and dispositions of MSRs. 
These decreases were partially offset by increases related to sales in 
RFS of originated loans for which servicing rights were retained. For 

additional information on MSRs, see Note 3 and Note 17 on pages 
170Œ187 and 260Œ263, respectively, of this Annual Report
  
Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets consist of purchased credit card 

relationships, other credit cardŒrelated intangibles, core deposit 

intangibles and other intangibles. The decrease in other intangible 
assets was predominately due to amortization, partially offset by an 
increase resulting from the aforementioned Gávea Investimentos 

transaction. For additional information on other intangible assets, 
see Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of this Annual Report.  
 Other assets 
Other assets consist of private equity and other investments, cash 

collateral pledged, corporate and bank-owned life insurance 

policies, assets acquired in loan satisfactions (including real estate 
owned) and all other assets. At December 31, 2010, other assets 
were relatively flat compared with December 31, 2009.
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
94
Deposits 
Deposits represent a liability to customers, both retail and 

wholesale, related to non-brokerage funds held on their behalf. 

Deposits are classified by location (U.S. and non-U.S.), whether 
they are interest- or noninterest-bearing, and by type (i.e., demand, 
money-market, savings, time or negotiable order of withdrawal 

accounts). Deposits provide a stable and consistent source of 

funding for the Firm. Deposits decreased, reflecting a decline in 

wholesale funding due to the Firm™s lower funding needs, and 

lower deposit levels in TSS
. These factors were offset partially by 
net inflows from existing customers and new business in CB, RFS 

and AM. For more information on deposits, refer to the RFS and 

AM segment discussions on pages 72Œ78 and 86Œ88, respectively; 

the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 110Œ115; and 

Note 3 and Note 19 on pages 170Œ187 and 263Œ264, respectively, 

of this Annual Report. For more information on wholesale liability 
balances, which includes deposits, refer to the CB and TSS segment 
discussions on pages 82Œ83 and 84Œ85, respectively, of this 
Annual Report. 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold 
under repurchase agreements 

The Firm uses these instruments as part of its liquidity management 

activities and to support its trading and risk management activities. 

In particular, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold 
under repurchase agreements are used as short-term funding 
sources and to make securities available to clients for their short-

term liquidity purposes.
 Securities sold under repurchase 
agreements increased, largely due to increased levels of activity in 

IB, partially offset by a decrease in CIO repositioning activities. For 

additional information on the Firm™s Liquidity Risk Management, 

see pages 110Œ115 of this Annual Report.
  
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds 
The Firm uses commercial paper and other borrowed funds in its 
liquidity management activities to meet short-term funding needs, 

and in connection with a TSS liquidity management product, 

whereby excess client funds are transferred into commercial paper 

overnight sweep accounts. Commercial paper and other borrowed 

funds, which includes advances from Federal Home Loan Banks 
(ﬁFHLBsﬂ), decreased due to lower funding requirements. For 
additional information on the Firm™s Liquidity Risk Management 

and other borrowed funds, see pages 110Œ115, and Note 20 on 
page 264 of this Annual Report.
 Accounts payable and other liabilities 
Accounts payable and other liabilities consist of payables to 

customers (primarily from activities related to IB™s Prime Services 

business); payables to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations; 
payables from failed securities purchases; accrued expense, 
including interest-bearing liabilities; and all other liabilities, 

including litigation reserves and obligations to return securities 

received as collateral. Accounts payable and other liabilities 

increased due to additional litigation reserves, largely for mortgage-
related matters.
 Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs represent interest-
bearing beneficial-interest liabilities, which increased, 
predominantly due to the Firm™s adoption of accounting guidance 

related to VIEs, partially offset by maturities of $24.9 billion related 

to Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts. For additional 

information on Firm-sponsored VIEs and loan securitization trusts, 

see OffŒBalance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Cash 
Obligations below, and Note 16 and Note 22 on pages 244Œ259 
and 265Œ266, respectively, of this Annual Report. 
 Long-term debt  
The Firm uses long-term debt (including trust-preferred capital debt 

securities) to provide cost-effective and diversified sources of funds 

and as critical components of the Firm's liquidity and capital 

management activities. Long-term debt decreased, due to lower 

funding requirements. Maturities and redemptions totaled $53.4 
billion during 2010 and were partially offset by new issuances of 
$36.0 billion. For additional information on the Firm™s long-term 

debt activities, see the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on 

pages 110Œ115, and Note 22 on pages 265Œ266 of this Annual 
Report.   
Stockholders™ equity 
Total stockholders™ equity increased, predominantly due to net 

income, and net issuances and commitments to issue under the 
Firm™s employee stock-based compensation plans. The increase was 
partially offset by the impact of the adoption of the new accounting 

guidance related to VIEs, which resulted in a reduction of $4.5 billion, 

driven by the establishment of an allowance for loan losses of $7.5 

billion (pretax) related to receivables predominantly held in credit 

card securitization trusts that were consolidated at the adoption 
date. Also partially offsetting the increase were stock repurchases; 
the purchase of the remaining interest in a consolidated subsidiary 

from noncontrolling shareholders; and the declaration of cash 

dividends on common and preferred stock. For a more detailed 

discussion of the adoption of new consolidated guidance related to 

VIEs, see Notes 1 and 16 on pages 164Œ165 and 244Œ259, 

respectively, of this Annual Report.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 95
OFFŒBALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS
JPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of offŒbalance sheet 
arrangements, including through unconsolidated special-purpose 

entities (ﬁSPEsﬂ), which are a type of VIE, and through lending-

related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees). 
Special-purpose entities 
SPEs are the most common type of VIE, used in securi
tization 
transactions to isolate certain assets and distribute related cash 
flows to investors. The basic SPE structure involves a company 

selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase of those 

assets by issuing securities to investors in the form of commercial 

paper, short-term asset-backed notes, medium-term notes and 

other forms of interest. SPEs are generally structured to insulate 

investors from claims on the SPE™s assets by creditors of other 

entities, including the creditors of the seller of the assets. 
As a result of new accounting guidance, certain VIEs were 
consolidated on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets effective 

January 1, 2010. Nevertheless, SPEs continue to be an important part 

of the financial markets, as they provide market liquidity by 

facilitating investors™ access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. 

These arrangements are integral to the markets for mortgage-backed 

securities, commercial paper and other asset-backed securities. 
JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity for itself and its 
clients by securitizing financial assets, and by creating investment 

products for clients. The Firm is involved with SPEs through multi-

seller conduits, investor intermediation activities, and loan 

securitizations. See Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 for further 

information on these types of SPEs. 
The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-
related transactions and related exposures, such as derivative 

transactions and lending-related commitments and guarantees. 
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any 
SPE transaction, and its policies require that transactions with SPEs 

be conducted at arm™s length and reflect market pricing. Consistent 

with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to 

invest in SPEs with which the Firm is involved where such 

investment would violate the Firm™s Code of Conduct. These rules 

prohibit employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf of the 

Firm in transactions with which they or their family have any 

significant financial interest. 
Implications of a credit rating downgrade to  
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
 For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm could be 

required to provide funding if the short-term credit rating of 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., were downgraded below specific 

levels, primarily ﬁP-1ﬂ, ﬁA-1ﬂ and ﬁF1ﬂ for Moody™s, Standard & 

Poor™s and Fitch, respectively. The aggregate amount of these 

liquidity commitments, to both consolidated and nonconsolidated 

SPEs, were $34.2 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. 

Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., were downgraded, 

the Firm could be replaced by another liquidity provider in lieu of 
providing funding under the liquidity commitment or, in certain 

circumstances, the Firm could facilitate the sale or refinancing of 

the assets in the SPE in order to provide liquidity. 
Special-purpose entities revenue 
The following table summarizes certain revenue information related 

to consolidated and nonconsolidated VIEs with which the Firm has 

significant involvement. The revenue reported in the table below 

primarily represents contractual servicing and credit fee income 

(i.e., fee income from acting as administrator, structurer or liquidity 

provider). It does not include gains and losses from changes in the 

fair value of trading positions (such as derivative transactions) 

entered into with VIEs. Those gains and losses are recorded in 

principal transactions revenue. 
Revenue from VIEs and Securitization Entities
(a)
 Year ended December 31,
  (in millions) 
2010
20092008 
Multi-seller conduits 
$    240
$    460$    314
 Investor intermediation 
49
3422 
Other securitization entities
(b)
 2,005
2,5101,742 
Total
 $ 2,294
$ 3,004$ 2,078 
(a) Includes revenue associated with both consolidated VIEs and significant 
nonconsolidated VIEs. 
(b) Excludes servicing revenue from loans sold to and securitized by third parties.  
Loan modifications
 The Firm modifies certain loans that it services, and that were sold to 
off-balance sheet SPEs, pursuant to the U.S. Treasury™s Making Home 

Affordable (ﬁMHAﬂ) programs and the Firm™s other loss mitigation 

programs. See Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 129Œ138 of this 

Annual Report for more details on these loan modifications. 
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial 
instruments and other guarantees
 JPMorgan Chase uses lending-related financial instruments (e.g., 
commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its 

customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments 

represents the Firm™s maximum possible credit risk should the 

counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required 

to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and should the 

counterparty subsequently fail to perform according to the terms 

of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees 

expire without being drawn or a default occurring. As a result, 

the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the 

Firm™s view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or 

funding requirements. For further discussion of lending-related 

commitments and guarantees and the Firm™s accounting for 

them, see Lending-related commitments on page 128 and Note 

30 on pages 275Œ280 of this Annual Report. 
The accompanying table presents, as of December 31, 2010, the 
amounts by contractual maturity of offŒbalance sheet lending-

related financial instruments and other guarantees. The amounts in 

the table for credit card and home equity lending-related 

commitments represent the total available credit for these products. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
96
The Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all 
available lines of credit for these products would be utilized at the 

same time. The Firm can reduce or cancel credit card lines of credit 

by providing the borrower prior notice or, in some cases, without 

notice as permitted by law. The Firm may reduce or close home 

equity lines of credit when there are significant decreases in the 

value of the underlying property or when there has been a 
demonstrable decline in the creditworthiness of the borrower. The 

accompanying table excludes certain guarantees that do not have a 

contractual maturity date (e.g., loan sale and securitization-related 

indemnification obligations). For further discussion, see discussion 

of Loan sale and securitization-related indemnification obligations 

in Note 30 on pages 275Œ280 of this Annual Report.
 OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and other guarantees 
By remaining maturity at December 31,
   2010
    2009
  (in millions)
 2011    2012-2013    2014-2015   After 2015            
Total
              
Total 
 Lending
-related
        Consumer, excluding credit card:
        Home equity 
Š senior lien
  $ 617
  $ 3,100
  $ 5,936
  $ 6,407
  $ 16,060
  $   19,246
  Home equity 
Š junior lien
   1,125
   7,169
   10,742
   9,645
    28,681
  37,231
  Prime mortgage
   1,266
   Š
   Š
   Š
    1,266
  1,654
  Subprime mortgage
   Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
    Š
  Š
  Auto 
   5,095
   144
   6
   1
    5,246
  5,467
  Business banking 
   9,116
   264
   85
   237
    9,702
  9,040
  Student and other
   76
   6
   Š
   497
    579
 2,189
  Total consumer, excluding credit card
   17,295
   10,683
   16,769
   16,787
    61,534
  74,827
  Credit card 
   547,227
   Š
   Š
   Š
    547,227
  569,113
  Total cons
umer
   564,522
   10,683
   16,769
   16,787
    608,761
  643,940
  Wholesale:
        Other unfunded co
mmitments to
 extend 
credit
(a)(b)(c)
   62,786
   99,698
   32,177
   5,198
    199,859
  192,145
  Asset purchase agreements
(b)
   Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
    Š
  22,685
  Standby letters of credit and other financial 
guarantees
(a)(c)(d)(e)
   25,346
   48,408
   16,729
   4,354
    94,837
  91,485
  Unused advised lines of credit
   34,354
   9,154
   373
   839
    44,720
  35,673
  Other letters of credit
(a)(
e)   3,903
   2,304
   456
   Š
    6,663
  5,167
  Total wholesale
   126,389
   159,564
   49,735
   10,391
    346,079
  347,155
  Total lending
-related 
  $ 690,911
  $ 170,247
  $ 66,504
  $ 27,178
  $ 954,840
   $ 991,095
  Other guarantees
        Securities lending indemnifications
(f)  $ 181,717
  $          Š
  $         Š
  $         Š
  $ 181,717
  $ 170,777
  Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
(g)   3,140
   585
   48,308
   35,735
   87,768
  98,052
 (i) 
Other guarantees and commitments
(h)   90
   226
   288
   3,162
   3,766
  3,671
  (a)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, represents the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $542 million and $643 million, respectively, for other unfunded 
commitments to extend credit; $22.4 billion and $24.6 billion, respectively, for standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees; and $1.1 billion and $690 
million, respectively, for other letters of credit. In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve these commitments are shown gross of risk participations. 
(b)
 Upon the adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs, $24.2 billion of lending-related commitments between the Firm and Firm-administered multi-seller 
conduits were eliminated upon consolidation. The decrease in lending-related commitments was partially offset by the addition of $6.5 billion of unfunded 
commitments directly between the multi-seller conduits and clients; these unfunded commitments of the consolidated conduits are now included as offŒbalance sheet 
lending-related commitments of the Firm. 
(c)
 Includes credit enhancements and bond and commercial paper liquidity commitments to U.S. states and municipalities, hospitals and other not-for-profit entities of 
$43.4 billion and $44.1 billion, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(d)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes unissued standby letters of credit commitments of $41.6 billion and $38.4 billion, respectively.
  (e)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $37.8 billion and $31.5 billion, respectively, of standby letters of credit; and $2.1 billion 
and $1.3 billion, respectively, of other letters of credit. 
(f)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements totaled $185.0 billion and $173.2 billion, 
respectively. Securities lending collateral comprises primarily cash, and securities issued by governments that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development (ﬁOECDﬂ) and U.S. government agencies. 
(g)
 Represents the notional amounts of derivative contracts qualifying as guarantees. For further discussion of guarantees, see Note 6 on pages 191Œ199 and Note 30 on 
pages 275Œ280 of this Annual Report. 
(h)
 Amounts include letters of credit hedged by derivative transactions and managed on a market risk basis. 

(i)
 The prior period has been revised to conform with current presentation. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 97
Contractual cash obligations
 In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various 
contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. On-

balance sheet obligations include deposits; secured and unsecured 

borrowings (both short- and long-term); beneficial interests issued by 

consolidated VIEs; current income taxes payable; accrued interest 

payments and certain employee benefit-related obligations. In 

addition, JPMorgan Chase has certain off-balance-sheet contractual 

obligations that may require future cash payments; these include 

unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements, 

future interest payments, noncancelable operating leases, capital 

expenditures related to real estate (including building purchase 

commitments) and equipment; equity investment commitments; and 

contracts to purchase future services. 
The accompanying table summarizes, by remaining maturity, 

JPMorgan Chase™s significant contractual cash obligations at 

December 31, 2010. The contractual cash obligations included in the 

table below reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally 

enforceable contracts with terms that are both fixed and 

determinable. The carrying amount of on-balance sheet obligations 

on the Consolidated Balance Sheets may differ from the amounts of 

the obligations reported below. Excluded are contingent payments 

associated with certain acquisitions, and loan repurchase liabilities. 

For a discussion of loan repurchase liabilities, see Repurchase liability 

on pages 98Œ101 of this Annual Report. For further discussion of 

other obligations, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

in this Annual Report. 
 Contractual cash obligations
          2010
    2009
 By remaining maturity at December 31, (in millions)
 2011 
   
 2012-2013     2014-2015   After 2015 
           
Total
              
Total 
On-balance sheet obligations 
      Deposits
(a)
  
 $    910,802
  $ 12,084
  $    4,139
  $ 657
  $  927,682
  $    935,265
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or 
sold under repurchase agreements 
  272,602
   2,167
   1,059
   816
   276,644
  261,413
Commercial paper 
  35,363
   Š
   Š
   Š
   35,363
  41,794
Other borrowed funds
(a)
   33,758
   8,833
   4,030
   915
   47,536
  50,398
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 
  38,989
   24,310
   4,708
   9,642
   77,649
  15,225
Long-term debt
(a)
   41,290
   64,544
   38,272
   82,403
   226,509
 242,465 
Current income taxes payable
(b)
   Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
  457
Other
(c)
   2,450
   1,141
   961
   2,777
   7,329
 7,438
Total on-balance sheet obligations
   1,335,254
   113,079
   53,169
   97,210
   1,598,712
  1,554,455
Off-balance sheet obligations 
     Unsettled reverse repurchase and securities 
borrowing agreements
(d)
   39,927
   Š
   Š
   Š
   39,927
  48,187
Contractual interest payments
(e)
   12,887
   13,089
   9,297
   43,181
   78,454
  77,015
Operating leases
(f)
   1,884
   3,478
   2,860
   7,778
   16,000
  15,952
Building purchase commitments
(g)
   258
   Š
   Š
   Š
   258
 670
Equity investment commitments
(h)
   1,296
   9
   23
   1,140
   2,468
  2,374
Contractual purchases and capital expenditures 
  1,384
   701
   335
   402
   2,822
  3,104
Obligations under affinity and co-brand programs 
  990
   2,002
   1,475
   1,334
   5,801
  6,898
Other 
  142
   120
   32
   15
   309
  15
Total off-balance sheet obligations
   58,768
   19,399
   14,022
   53,850
   146,039
 154,215
Total contractual cash obligations
  $ 1,394,022
  $ 132,478
  $ 67,191
  $ 151,060
  $ 1,744,751
  $ 1,708,670
(a)
 Excludes structured notes where the Firm is not obligated to return a stated amount of principal at the maturity of the notes, but is obligated to return an amount based 
on the performance of the structured notes. 
(b)
 2011 excludes the expected benefit of net prepayments of income taxes as of December 31, 2010. 
(c)
 Primarily includes deferred annuity contracts, pension and postretirement obligations and insurance liabilities. 
(d)
 For further information, refer to Unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements in Note 30 on page 278 of this Annual Report. 
(e)
 Includes accrued interest and future contractual interest obligations. Excludes interest related to structured notes where the Firm™s payment obligation is based on the 
performance of certain benchmarks. 
(f)
 Includes noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes and for energy-related tolling service agreements. Excludes 
the benefit of noncancelable sublease rentals of $1.8 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
(g)
 For further information, refer to Building purchase commitments in Note 30 on page 278 of this Annual Report. 
(h)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes unfunded commitments of $1.0 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, to third-party private equity funds that are generally fair 
valued at net asset value as discussed in Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this Annual Report; and $1.4 billion and $897 million, respectively, to other equity investments.
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
98
Repurchase liability
 In connection with the Firm™s loan sale and securitization activities 
with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the ﬁGSEsﬂ) and other loan sale 
and private-label securitization transactions, the Firm has made 

representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain 

requirements. For transactions with the GSEs, these representations 

relate to type of collateral, underwriting standards, validity of 

certain borrower representations in connection with the loan, 

primary mortgage insurance being in force for any mortgage loan 

with a loan-to-value ratio (ﬁLTVﬂ) greater than 80%, and the use 

of the GSEs™ standard legal documentation. The Firm may be, and 

has been, required to repurchase loans and/or indemnify the GSEs 

and other investors for losses due to material breaches of these 

representations and warranties; however, predominantly all of the 

repurchase demands received by the Firm and the Firm™s losses 

realized to date are related to loans sold to the GSEs. 
To date, the repurchase demands the Firm has received from the 
GSEs primarily relate to loans originated from 2005 to 2008. 

Demands against the pre-2005 and post-2008 vintages have not 

been significant; the Firm attributes this to the comparatively 

favorable credit performance of these vintages and to the enhanced 

underwriting and loan qualification standards implemented 

progressively during 2007 and 2008. From 2005 to 2008, excluding 

Washington Mutual, loans sold to the GSEs subject to representations 

and warranties for which the Firm may be liable were approximately 

$380 billion; this amount represents the principal amount of loans 

sold throughout 2005 to 2008 and has not been adjusted for 

subsequent activity, such as borrower repayments of principal or 

repurchases completed to date. See the discussion below for 

information concerning the process the Firm uses to evaluate 

repurchase demands for breaches of representations and warranties, 

and the Firm™s estimate of probable losses related to such exposure.  
From 2005 to 2008, Washington Mutual sold approximately $150 
billion of loans to the GSEs subject to certain representations and 

warranties. Subsequent to the Firm™s acquisition of certain assets and 

liabilities of Washington Mutual from the FDIC in September 2008, 

the Firm resolved and/or limited certain current and future repurchase 

demands for loans sold to the GSEs by Washington Mutual, although 

it remains the Firm™s position that such obligations remain with the 

FDIC receivership. Nevertheless, certain payments have been made 

with respect to certain of the then current and future repurchase 

demands, and the Firm will continue to evaluate and may pay 

certain future repurchase demands related to individual loans. In 

addition to the payments already made, the Firm estimates it has a 

remaining repurchase liability of approximately $190 million as of 

December 31, 2010, relating to unresolved and future demands on 

loans sold to the GSEs by Washington Mutual. After consideration of 

this repurchase liability, the Firm believes that the remaining GSE 

repurchase exposure related to Washington Mutual presents minimal 

future risk to the Firm™s financial results. 
The Firm also sells loans in securitization transactions with Ginnie 

Mae; these loans are typically insured by the Federal Housing 

Administration (ﬁFHAﬂ) or the Rural Housing Administration 

(ﬁRHAﬂ) and/or guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Veterans 

Affairs (ﬁVAﬂ). The Firm, in its role as servicer, may elect to 

repurchase delinquent loans securitized by Ginnie Mae in 

accordance with guidelines prescribed by Ginnie Mae, FHA, RHA 

and VA. Amounts due under the terms of these loans continue to 

be insured and the reimbursement of insured amounts is 

proceeding normally. Accordingly, the Firm has not recorded any 

repurchase liability related to these loans. 
From 2005 to 2008, the Firm and certain acquired entities sold or 
deposited approximately $450 billion of residential mortgage loans to 

securitization trusts in private-label securitizations they sponsored. In 

connection therewith certain representations and warranties were 

made related to these loans. With respect to the $165 billion of 

private-label securitizations originated by Washington Mutual, it is 

the Firm™s position that repurchase obligations remain with the FDIC 

receivership. 
While the terms of the securitization transactions vary, they generally 
differ from loan sales to GSEs in that, among other things: (i) in order 

to direct the trustee to investigate loan files, the security holders must 

make a formal request for the trustee to do so, and typically, this 

requires agreement of the holders of a specified percentage of the 

outstanding securities; (ii) generally, the mortgage loans are not 

required to meet all GSE eligibility criteria; and (iii) in many cases, the 

party demanding repurchase is required to demonstrate that a loan-

level breach of a representation or warranty has materially and 

adversely affected the value of the loan. Of the $450 billion 

originally sold or deposited (including $165 billion by Washington 

Mutual, as to which the Firm maintains the repurchase obligations 

remain with the FDIC receivership), approximately $180 billion of 

principal has been repaid. Approximately $80 billion of loans have 

been liquidated, with an average loss severity of 57%. The 

remaining outstanding principal balance of these loans as of 

December 31, 2010, was approximately $190 billion.  
To date, loan-level repurchase demands in private-label 
securitizations have been limited. As a result, the Firm™s repurchase 

reserve primarily relates to loan sales to the GSEs and is 

predominantly derived from repurchase activity with the GSEs. While 

it is possible that the volume of repurchase demands in private-label 

securitizations will increase in the future, the Firm cannot offer a 

reasonable estimate of those future demands based on historical 

experience to date. Thus far, claims related to private-label 

securitizations (including from insurers that have guaranteed certain 

obligations of the securitization trusts) have generally manifested 

themselves through securities-related litigation. The Firm separately 

evaluates its exposure to such litigation in establishing its litigation 

reserves. For additional information regarding litigation, see Note 32 

on pages 282Œ289 of this Annual Report.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 99
Repurchase Demand Process 
 The Firm first becomes aware that a GSE is evaluating a particular 
loan for repurchase when the Firm receives a request from the GSE 

to review the underlying loan file (ﬁfile requestﬂ). Upon completing 

its review, the GSE may submit a repurchase demand to the Firm; 

historically, most file requests have not resulted in repurchase 

demands.  
The primary reasons for repurchase demands from the GSEs relate to 
alleged misrepresentations primarily arising from: (i) credit quality 

and/or undisclosed debt of the borrower; (ii) income level and/or 

employment status of the borrower; and (iii) appraised value of 

collateral. Ineligibility of the borrower for the particular product, 

mortgage insurance rescissions and missing documentation are other 

reasons for repurchase demands. Beginning in 2009, mortgage 

insurers more frequently rescinded mortgage insurance coverage. The 

successful rescission of mortgage insurance typically results in a 

violation of representations and warranties made to the GSEs and, 

therefore, has been a significant cause of repurchase demands from 

the GSEs. The Firm actively reviews all rescission notices from 

mortgage insurers and contests them when appropriate. 
As soon as practicable after receiving a repurchase demand from a 
GSE, the Firm evaluates the request and takes appropriate actions 

based on the nature of the repurchase demand. Loan-level appeals 

with the GSEs are typical and the Firm seeks to provide a final 

response to a repurchase demand within three to four months of 

the date of receipt. In many cases, the Firm ultimately is not 

required to repurchase a loan because it is able to resolve the 

purported defect. Although repurchase demands may be made for 
as long as the loan is outstanding, most repurchase demands from 

the GSEs historically have related to loans that became delinquent 

in the first 24 months following origination.  
When the Firm accepts a repurchase demand from one of the GSEs, 
the Firm may either a) repurchase the loan or the underlying 

collateral from the GSE at the unpaid principal balance of the loan 

plus accrued interest, or b) reimburse the GSE for its realized loss 

on a liquidated property (a ﬁmake-wholeﬂ payment).  
Estimated Repurchase Liability
 To estimate the Firm™s repurchase liability arising from breaches of 
representations and warranties, the Firm considers:  

(i)
 the level of current unresolved repurchase demands and 

mortgage insurance rescission notices, 
(ii)
 estimated probable future repurchase demands considering 

historical experience,  
(iii)
 the potential ability of the Firm to cure the defects identified 

in the repurchase demands (ﬁcure rateﬂ),  
(iv)
 the estimated severity of loss upon repurchase of the loan or 

collateral, make-whole settlement, or indemnification,  
(v)
 the Firm™s potential ability to recover its losses from third-

party originators, and 
(vi)
 the terms of agreements with certain mortgage insurers and 

other parties. 
Based on these factors, the Firm has recognized a repurchase 

liability of $3.3 billion and $1.7 billion, including the Washington 

Mutual liability described above, as of December 31, 2010, and 

2009, respectively. 
The following table provides information about outstanding repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescission notices, excluding those 

related to Washington Mutual, at each of the five most recent quarter-end dates. Due to the rate at which developments have occurred in this 

area, management does not believe that it would be useful or meaningful to report quarterly information for periods prior to the quarter ended 
December 31, 2009; the most meaningful trends are those which are more recent.  
Outstanding repurc
hase demands and mortgage insurance rescission notices by counterparty type
  
   (in millions) 
 December 31, 
  2010 
 September 30,  

 2010 
 June 30,  

  2010 
 March 31, 

   2010 
 December 31, 
  2009  
GSEs and other 
 $ 1,071
  $ 1,063  $ 1,331  $ 1,358  $ 1,339 
Mortgage insurers 
  624
   556   998   1,090   865 
Overlapping population
(a)
   (63) 
  (69)   (220)   (232)   (169) 
Total
  $ 1,632
  $ 1,550  $ 2,109  $ 2,216  $ 2,035 
(a)
 Because the GSEs may make repurchase demands based on mortgage insurance rescission notices that remain unresolved, certain loans may be subject to both an 
unresolved mortgage insurance rescission notice and an unresolved repurchase demand. 
Probable future repurchase demands are generally estimated based 
on loans that are or ever have been 90 days past due. The Firm 
estimates probable future repurchase demands by considering the 

unpaid principal balance of these delinquent loans and expected 

repurchase demand rates based on historical experience and data, 

including the age of the loan when it first became delinquent. 

Through the first three quarters of 2010, the Firm experienced a 

sustained trend of increased file requests and repurchase demands 

from the GSEs across most vintages, including the 2005-2008 

vintages, in spite of improved delinquency statistics and the aging of 

the 2005-2008 vintages. File requests from the GSEs, excluding those 
related to Washington Mutual, and private investors decreased by 

29% between the second and third quarters of 2009 and remained 

relatively stable through the fourth quarter of 2009. After this period 

of decline and relative stability, file requests from the GSEs and 

private investors then experienced quarter over quarter increases of 

5%, 18% and 15% in the first, second and third quarters of 2010, 

respectively. The number of file requests received from the GSEs and 

private investors decreased in the fourth quarter of 2010, but the 

level of file requests continues to be elevated and volatile. 
The Firm expects that the change in GSE behavior that it began to 
observe earlier in 2010 will alter the historical relationship between 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
100
delinquencies and repurchase demands. In response to these 
changing trends, in the third quarter of 2010, the Firm refined its 

estimate of probable future repurchase demands by separately 

forecasting near-term repurchase demands (using outstanding file 

requests) and longer-term repurchase demands (considering 

delinquent loans for which no file request has been received).  

The Firm believes that this refined estimation process produces a 

better estimate of probable future repurchase demands since it 

directly incorporates the Firm™s recent file request experience. The 

Firm also believes that the refined estimation process will better 
reflect emerging trends in file requests as well as the relationship 

between file requests and ultimate repurchase demands. This 

refinement in the Firm™s estimation process resulted in a higher 

estimated amount of probable future demands from the GSEs, and 

this revised future repurchase demand assumption, along with an 

overall increase in repurchase demands from the GSEs during 2010, 

were the primary drivers of the $1.6 billion increase in the Firm™s 

repurchase liability during 2010. 
 The following tables show the trend in repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescission notices received by loan origination vintage, 

excluding those related to Washington Mutual, for the five most recent quarters. Due to the rate at which developments have occurred in this 

area, management does not believe that it would be useful or meaningful to report quarterly information for periods prior to the quarter ended 
December 31, 2009; the most meaningful trends are those which are more recent. 
Quarterly repurchase demands received by loan origination vintage
    (in millions) 
December 31, 
  2010 
September 30,  
 2010 
June 30,  
 2010 
March 31,  
 2010 
   
December 31, 
   2009  
Pre-2005 
 $ 38
  $ 31
  $ 35
  $ 16
  $ 
12
 2005 
  72
   67   94   50 
  
40
 2006 
  195
   185   234   189 
  
166
 2007 
  537
   498   521   403 
  
425
 2008 
  254
   191   186   98 
  
157
 Post-2008 
  65
   46   53   20 
  
26
 Total repurchase demands received
  $1,161
  $ 1,018  $ 1,123  $ 776 
 $ 
826
  Quarterly mortgage insurance rescission notices received by loan origination vintage
   (in millions) 
Decemb
er 31, 
  2010 
September 30,  
 2010 
June 30,  
 2010 
March 31,  
 2010 
   
December 31, 
   2009  
Pre-2005 
 $ 3  $ 4
  $ 4
  $ 2
  $ 
3 2005 
  7   5   7   18 
  
22
 2006 
  40
   39   39   57 
  
50
 2007 
  113
   105   155   203 
  
221
 2008 
  49
   44   52   60 
  
69
 Post-2008 
  1   Š   Š   Š 
  
Š Total mortgage insurance 
 rescissions received
(a)
  $ 213 
 $ 197  $ 257  $ 340 
 $ 
365
 (a)
 Mortgage insurance rescissions may ultimately result in a repurchase demand from the GSEs on a lagged basis. This table includes mortgage insurance rescissions 
where the GSEs have also issued a repurchase demand. 
Because the Firm has demonstrated an ability to cure certain types 
of defects more frequently than others (e.g., missing documents), 
trends in the types of defects identified as well as the Firm™s 

historical data are considered in estimating the future cure rate. 

During 2010, the Firm™s overall cure rate, excluding Washington 

Mutual loans, has been approximately 50%. While the actual cure 
rate may vary from quarter to quarter, the Firm expects that the 
overall cure rate will remain in the 40Œ50% range for the 
foreseeable future.  
The Firm has not observed a direct relationship between the type of 
defect that causes the breach of representations and warranties 

and the severity of the realized loss. Therefore, the loss severity 

assumption is estimated using the Firm™s historical experience and 

projections regarding home price appreciation. Actual loss 

severities on finalized repurchases and ﬁmake-wholeﬂ settlements, 
excluding any related to Washington Mutual loans, currently 
average approximately 50%, but may vary from quarter to quarter 

based on the characteristics of the underlying loans and changes in 
home prices.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 101
When a loan was originated by a third-party correspondent, the 
Firm typically has the right to seek a recovery of related repurchase 

losses from the correspondent originator. Correspondent-originated 

loans comprise approximately 40 percent of loans underlying 
outstanding repurchase demands, excluding those related to 
Washington Mutual. The Firm experienced a decrease in third-party 

recoveries from late 2009 into 2010. However, the actual third-

party recovery rate may vary from quarter to quarter based upon 

the underlying mix of correspondents (e.g., active, inactive, out-of-
business) from which recoveries are being sought. 
The Firm is engaged in discussions with various mortgage insurers 
on their rights and practices of rescinding mortgage insurance 
coverage. The Firm has entered into agreements with two 
mortgage insurers to resolve their claims on certain portfolios for 

which the Firm is a servicer. The impact of these agreements is 

reflected in the repurchase liability and the disclosed outstanding 
mortgage insurance rescission notices as of December 31, 2010.  
Substantially all of the estimates and assumptions underlying the 
Firm™s methodology for computing its recorded repurchase 

liabilityŠincluding factors such as the amount of probable future 
demands from purchasers (which is in part based on historical 
experience), the ability of the Firm to cure identified defects, the 

severity of loss upon repurchase or foreclosure and recoveries from 

third partiesŠrequire application of a significant level of 

management judgment. Estimating the repurchase liability is further 

complicated by limited and rapidly changing historical data and 
uncertainty surrounding numerous external factors, including: (i) 
economic factors (e.g., further declines in home prices and changes 

in borrower behavior may lead to increases in the number of 

defaults, the severity of losses, or both), and (ii) the level of future 

demands, which is dependent, in part, on actions taken by third 

parties, such as the GSEs and mortgage insurers. While the Firm 
uses the best information available to it in estimating its repurchase 
liability, the estimation process is inherently uncertain, imprecise 

and potentially volatile as additional information is obtained and 
external factors continue to evolve. 
The following table summarizes the change in the repurchase 
liability for each of the periods presented. 
Summary of changes in repurchase liability 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
    2010 
     2009      2008 
Repurchase liability at 
beginning of period 
 $ 1,705
  $ 1,093  $      15
 Realized losses
(a)
   (1,423)
   (1,253)
(c)   (155) 
Provision for repurchase losses
   3,003
   1,865   1,233
(d)
 Repurchase liability at end 
of period 
 $ 3,285
(b)
  $ 1,705  $ 1,093 
(a)
 Includes principal losses and accrued interest on repurchased loans, ﬁmake-
wholeﬂ settlements, settlements with claimants, and certain related expense. 
For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, make-whole 

settlements were $632 million, $277 million and $34 million, respectively. 
(b)
 Includes $190 million at December 31, 2010, related to future demands on 
loans sold by Washington Mutual to the GSEs. 
(c)
 Includes the Firm™s resolution of certain current and future repurchase 
demands for certain loans sold by Washington Mutual. The unpaid principal 
balance of loans related to this resolution is not included in the table below, 

which summarizes the unpaid principal balance of repurchased loans. 
(d)
 Includes a repurchase liability assumed for certain loans sold by Washington 

Mutual; this assumed liability was reported as a reduction of the extraordinary 

gain rather than as a charge to the provision for repurchase losses. 
The following table summarizes the total unpaid principal balance 
of repurchases during the periods indicated. 
Unpaid principal balance of loan repurchases
(a)
 Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
     2010 
    2009     2008 
Ginnie Mae
(b)
  $ 8,717
  $ 6,966  $ 4,
452
 GSEs and other
(c)
(d)
   1,790
   1,019   587 
Total
  $10,507
  $ 7,985  $ 5,039 
(a)
 Excludes mortgage insurers. While the rescission of mortgage insurance may 
ultimately trigger a repurchase demand, the mortgage insurers themselves do 
not present repurchase demands to the Firm. 
(b)
 In substantially all cases, these repurchases represent the Firm™s voluntary 
repurchase of certain delinquent loans from loan pools or packages as 
permitted by Ginnie Mae guidelines (i.e., they do not result from repurchase 
demands due to breaches of representations and warranties). In certain cases, 

the Firm repurchases these delinquent loans as it continues to service them 
and/or manage the foreclosure process in accordance with applicable 
requirements of Ginnie Mae, the FHA, RHA and/or the VA. 
(c)
 Predominantly all of the repurchases related to the GSEs. 
(d)
 Nonaccrual loans held-for-investment included $354 million and $218 million 

at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, of loans repurchased as a 

result of breaches of representations and warranties. 
 
 102 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
A strong capital position is essential to the Firm™s business strategy 
and competitive position. The Firm™s capital strategy focuses on 

long-term stability, which enables it to build and invest in market-

leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment. Senior 

management considers the implications on the Firm™s capital 

strength prior to making any decision on future business activities. 

Capital and earnings are inextricably linked, as earnings directly 

affect capital generation for the Firm. In addition to considering the 

Firm™s earnings outlook, senior management evaluates all sources 

and uses of capital and makes decisions to vary sources or uses to 

preserve the Firm™s capital strength.
  The Firm™s capital management objectives are to hold capital suffi-
cient to:  

· Cover all material risks underlying the Firm™s business activities; 
· Maintain ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ status under regulatory requirements; 
· Achieve debt rating targets; 
· Remain flexible to take advantage of future opportunities; and  
· Build and invest in businesses, even in a highly stressed  
environment.  
To meet these objectives, the Firm maintains a robust and disci-

plined capital adequacy assessment process, which is performed 

quarterly, and which is intended to enable the Firm to remain well-

capitalized and fund ongoing operations under adverse conditions. 

The process assesses the potential impact of alternative economic 

and business scenarios on earnings and capital for the Firm™s busi-

nesses individually and in the aggregate over a rolling three-year 

period. Economic scenarios, and the parameters underlying those 

scenarios, are defined centrally and applied uniformly across the 

businesses. These scenarios are articulated in terms of macroeco-

nomic factors, which are key drivers of business results; global 

market shocks, which generate short-term but severe trading 

losses; and operational risk events, which generate significant one-

time losses. However, even when defining a broad range of scenar-

ios, realized events can always be worse. Accordingly, management 

considers additional stresses outside these scenarios as necessary. 

The Firm utilized this capital adequacy process in completing the 

Federal Reserve Comprehensive Capital Plan. The assessment of 

capital adequacy is also evaluated together with the Firm™s Liquidity 

Risk Management processes. For further information on the Firm™s 

liquidity risk management, see pages 110Œ115 of this Annual 

Report. 
The quality and composition of capital are key factors in senior 

management™s evaluation of the Firm™s capital adequacy. Accord-

ingly, the Firm holds a significant amount of its capital in the form 

of common equity. The Firm uses three capital disciplines:  
· Regulatory capital
 Œ The capital required according to standards 
stipulated by U.S. bank regulatory agencies.  
· Economic risk capital
 Œ A bottom-up assessment of the underly-
ing risks of the Firm™s business activities, utilizing internal risk-
assessment methodologies. 
· Line of business equity
 Œ 
The amount of equity the Firm believes 
each business segment would require if it were operating inde-

pendently, which incorporates sufficient capital to address eco-

nomic risk measures, regulatory capital requirements and capital 

levels for similarly rated peers. 
Regulatory capital  
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, i
ncluding 
well-capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding 
company. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (ﬁOCCﬂ) 

establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Firm™s 

national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase 

Bank USA, N.A. 
In connection with the U.S. Government™s Supervisory Capital 
Assessment Program in 2009, U.S. banking regulators developed a 

new measure of capital, Tier 1 common, which is defined as Tier 1 

capital less elements of Tier 1 capital not in the form of common 

equity Œ such as perpetual preferred stock, noncontrolling interests 

in subsidiaries and trust preferred capital debt securities. Tier 1 

common, a non-GAAP financial measure, is used by banking regu-

lators, investors and analysts to assess and compare the quality and 

composition of the Firm™s capital with the capital of other financial 

services companies. The Firm uses Tier 1 common along with the 

other capital measures to assess and monitor its capital position. 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase maintained Tier 
1 and Total capital ratios in excess of the well-capitalized standards 

established by the Federal Reserve, as indicated in the tables be-

low. In addition, the Firm™s Tier 1 common ratio was significantly 

above the 4% well-capitalized standard established at the time of 

the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. For more information, 

see Note 29 on pages 273Œ274 of this Annual Report. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 103 
Risk-based capital ratios 
December 31, 
2010
 2009 
Tier 1 capital
(a)
 12.1
 % 
11.1%
 Total capital 
15.5
 14.8 
Tier 1 leverage 
 7.0
 6.9 
Tier 1 common 
 9.8
 8.8 
(a) On January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting standards which required the 
consolidation of the Firm™s credit card securitization trusts, Firm-administered multi-
seller conduits, and certain mortgage and other consumer securitization entities. Re-
fer to Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report for additional information 
about the impact to the Firm of the new guidance. 
A reconciliation of Total stockholders™ equity to Tier 1 common 
capital, Tier 1 capital and Total qualifying capital is presented in the 
table below.  
Risk-based capital components and assets 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2010
 2009 
Tier 1 capital
   Tier 1 common:
   Total stockholders™ equity
  $ 176,106
  $  165,365 
Less:  Preferred stock 
  7,800
  8,152 
Common stockholders™ e
quity
   168,306
  157,213 
Effect of certain items in accumulated 
other comprehensive income/(loss)  
excluded from Tier 1 common equity 
  (748) 
 75 
Less: Goodwill
(a)
   46,915
  46,630 
 Fair value DVA on derivative and
   structured note liabilities related 
   to the Firm™s credit quality 
  1,261 
 912 
 Investments in certain subsidiaries
        and other 
  1,032
  802 
 Other intangible assets
(a)
   3,587 
 3,660 
Tier 1 common 
   114,763
  105,284 
Preferred stock 
  7,800
  8,152 
Qualifying hybrid securities and nonco
n-trolling interests
(b)
   19,887
  19,535 
Total Tier 1 capital
   142,
450
   132,971 
Ti
er 2 capital
   Long
-term debt and other instruments 
qualifying as Tier 2  
  25,018 
 28,977 
Qualifying allowance for credit losses 
  14,
959
  15,296 
Adjustment for investments in certain 
subsidiaries and other 
  (211) 
  (171) 
Total Tier 2 capital
   39,7
66
  44,102 
Total qualifying capital
  $ 182,
216
   $   177,073 
Risk-weighted assets
(c)(d)
  $ 1,174,978 
 $1,198,006 
Total adjusted average assets
(e)
  $ 2,024,515 
 $1,933,767
(a)
 Goodwill and other intangible assets are net of any associated deferred tax 
liabilities.  
(b)
 Primarily includes trust preferred capital debt securities of certain business 

trusts. 
(c)
 Risk-weighted assets consist of onŒ and offŒbalance sheet assets that are 
assigned to one of several broad risk categories and weighted by factors rep-
resenting their risk and potential for default. OnŒbalance sheet assets are 

risk-weighted based on the perceived credit risk associated with the obligor or 
counterparty, the nature of any collateral, and the guarantor, if any. OffŒ
balance sheet assets Œ such as lending-related commitments, guarantees, 

derivatives and other applicable offŒbalance sheet positions Œ are risk-
weighted by multiplying the contractual amount by the appropriate credit 
conversion factor to determine the onŒbalance sheet credit-equivalent 

amount, which is then risk-weighted based on the same factors used for onŒ

balance sheet assets. Risk-weighted assets also incorporate a measure for the 
market risk related to applicable trading assetsŒdebt and equity instruments, 
and foreign exchange and commodity derivatives. The resulting risk-weighted 

values for each of the risk categories are then aggregated to determine total 
risk-weighted assets. 
(d)
 Includes offŒbalance sheet risk-weighted assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, 
of $282.9 billion and $367.4 billion, respectively. Risk-weighted assets are calcu-
lated in accordance with U.S. federal regulatory capital standards. 
(e)
 Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the leverage ratio, 
include total average assets adjusted for unrealized gains/(losses) on securi-
ties, less deductions for disallowed goodwill and other intangible assets, in-

vestments in certain subsidiaries, and the total adjusted carrying value of 

nonfinancial equity investments that are subject to deductions from Tier 1 
capital.
 The Firm™s Tier 1 common capital was $114.8 billion at December 
31, 2010, compared with $105.3 billion at December 31, 2009, an 
increase of $9.5 billion. The increase was predominantly due to net 

income (adjusted for DVA) of $17.0 billion and net issuances and 

commitments to issue common stock under the Firm™s employee 

stock-based compensation plans of $2.8 billion. The increase was 

partially offset by $4.4 billion of cumulative effect adjustments to 

retained earnings that predominantly resulted from the adoption of 

new accounting guidance related to VIEs; $3.0 billion of common 

stock repurchases; $1.5 billion of dividends on common and pre-

ferred stock; and a $1.3 billion reduction related to the purchase of 

the remaining interest in a consolidated subsidiary from noncon-

trolling shareholders. The Firm™s Tier 1 capital was $142.5 billion at 

December 31, 2010, compared with $133.0 billion at December 

31, 2009, an increase of $9.5 billion. The increase in Tier 1 capital 

reflected the increase in Tier 1 common and a net issuance of trust 

preferred capital debt securities, offset by the redemption of pre-

ferred stock. 
For additional information regarding federal regulatory capital 
requirements and capital ratios of the Firm and the Firm™s signifi-

cant banking subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009, see 

Note 29 on pages 273Œ274 of this Annual Report. 
Basel II  
The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the U.S. 

federal banking agencies follow the Capital Accord of the Basel 

Committee on Banking Supervision (ﬁBasel Iﬂ). In 2004, the Basel 

Committee published a revision to the Accord (ﬁBasel IIﬂ). The goal 

of the Basel II Framework is to provide more risk-sensitive regula-

tory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk management 

practices among large, internationally active banking organizations. 

U.S. banking regulators published a final Basel II rule in December 

2007, which requires JPMorgan Chase to implement Basel II at the 

holding company level, as well as at certain of its key U.S. bank 

subsidiaries. 
Prior to full implementation of the new Basel II Framework, JPMor-
gan Chase is required to complete a qualification period of four 

consecutive quarters during which it needs to demonstrate that it 

meets the requirements of the rule to the satisfaction of its primary 

U.S. banking regulators. The U.S. implementation timetable con-

sists of the qualification period, starting no later than April 1, 2010, 

followed by a minimum transition period of three years. During the 

transition period, Basel II risk-based capital requirements cannot 

fall below certain floors based on current Basel l regulations. 

JPMorgan Chase is currently in the qualification period and expects 

to be in compliance with all relevant Basel II rules within the estab-

lished timelines. In addition, the Firm has adopted, and will con-

 104 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
tinue to adopt, based on various established timelines, Basel II rules 
in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, as required.  
Basel III  

In addition to the Basel II Framework, on December 16, 2010, the 

Basel Committee issued the final version of the Capital Accord, 

called ﬁBasel IIIﬂ, which included narrowing the definition of capi-

tal, increasing capital requirements for specific exposures, introduc-

ing short-term liquidity coverage and term funding standards, and 

establishing an international leverage ratio. The Basel Committee 

also announced higher capital ratio requirements under Basel III 

which provide that the common equity requirement will be in-

creased to 7%, comprised of a minimum of 4.5% plus a 2.5% 

capital conservation buffer. 
In addition, the U.S. federal banking agencies have published for 
public comment proposed risk-based capital floors pursuant to the 

requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act to establish a permanent Basel 

I floor under Basel II / Basel III capital calculations.  
The Firm fully expects to be in compliance with the higher Basel III 
capital standards when they become effective on January 1, 2019, 

as well as additional Dodd-Frank Act capital requirements when 

they are implemented. The Firm estimates that its Tier 1 common 

ratio under Basel III rules (including the changes for calculating 

capital on trading assets and securitizations) would be 7% as of 

December 31, 2010. This estimate reflects the Firm™s current under-

standing of the Basel III rules and their application to its businesses 

as currently conducted; accordingly, this estimate will evolve over 

time as the Firm™s businesses change and as a result of further rule-

making on Basel III implementation from U.S. federal banking 

agencies. The Firm also believes it may need to modify the current 

liquidity profile of its assets and liabilities in response to the short-

term liquidity coverage and term funding standards contained in 

Basel III. The Basel III revisions governing liquidity and capital 

requirements are subject to prolonged observation and transition 

periods. The observation period for the liquidity coverage ratio and 

term funding standards begins in 2011, with implementation in 

2015 and 2018, respectively. The transition period for banks to 

meet the revised common equity requirement will begin in 2013, 

with implementation on January 1, 2019. The Firm will continue to 

monitor the ongoing rule-making process to assess both the timing 

and the impact of Basel III on its businesses and financial condition.  
Broker-dealer regulatory capital
 JPMorgan Chase™s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries  
are J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (ﬁJPMorgan Securitiesﬂ; formerly 

J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.), and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. 

(ﬁJPMorgan Clearingﬂ). JPMorgan Securities became a limited 

liability company on September 1, 2010. JPMorgan Clearing is a 

subsidiary of JPMorgan Securities and provides clearing and 

settlement services. JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing 

are each subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange 

Act of 1934 (the ﬁNet Capital Ruleﬂ). JPMorgan Securities and 

JPMorgan Clearing are also registered as futures commission 
merchants and subject to Rule 1.17 of the Commodity Futures 

Trading Commission (ﬁCFTCﬂ).  
JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing have elected to compute 
their minimum net capital requirements in accordance with the 

ﬁAlternative Net Capital Requirementsﬂ of the Net Capital Rule. At 

December 31, 2010, JPMorgan Securities™ net capital, as defined by 

the Net Capital Rule, was $6.9 billion, exceeding the minimum 

requirement by $6.3 billion, and JPMorgan Clearing™s net capital was 

$5.7 billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $3.9 billion. 
In addition to its minimum net capital requirement, JPMorgan 
Securities is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 

billion and is also required to notify the Securities and Exchange 

Commission (ﬁSECﬂ) in the event that tentative net capital is less 

than $5.0 billion, in accordance with the market and credit risk 

standards of Appendix E of the Net Capital Rule. As of December 

31, 2010, JPMorgan Securities had tentative net capital in excess of 

the minimum and notification requirements. 
Economic risk capital  
JPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relativ
e to the risks 
underlying its business activities, using internal risk-assessment 
methodologies. The Firm measures economic capital primarily 

based on four risk factors: credit, market, operational and private 

equity risk.  
Economic risk capital
      Yearly Average 
Year ended December 31, (in billions) 
 20
10
 200
9Credit risk 
  $   
49.7
  
$   51.3
Market risk 
  15.1
  
15.4
Operational risk 
  7.
4  
8.5
Private equity risk 
  6.2
  
4.7
Economic risk capital
   78.4
  
79.9
Goodwill 
  48.
6  
48.3
Other
(a)
   34.5
  
17.7
Total common stockhol
ders™ equity
   $ 16
1.5
  
$ 145.9
(a)
 Reflects additional capital required, in the Firm™s view, to meet its regulatory 
and debt rating objectives. 
Credit risk capital  
Credit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses 
(IB, CB, TSS and AM) and consumer businesses (RFS and CS). 
Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is de-
fined in terms of unexpected credit losses, both from defaults and 

from declines in the portfolio value due to credit deterioration 

measured over a one-year period at a confidence level consistent 

with an ﬁAAﬂ credit rating standard. Unexpected losses are losses 

in excess of those for which allowances for credit losses are main-

tained. The capital methodology is based on several principal 

drivers of credit risk: exposure at default (or loan-equivalent 

amount), default likelihood, credit spreads, loss severity and portfo-

lio correlation.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 105 
Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is based on product 
and other relevant risk segmentation. Actual segment-level default 
and severity experience are used to estimate unexpected losses for 

a one-year horizon at a confidence level consistent with an ﬁAAﬂ 

credit rating standard. See Credit Risk Management on pages 116Œ

118 of this Annual Report for more information about these credit 

risk measures. 
Market risk capital 
The Firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that 

capital should reflect the risk of loss in the value of portfolios and 

financial instruments caused by adverse movements in market 

variables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit 

spreads, and securities and commodities prices, taking into account 

the liquidity of the financial instruments. Results from daily VaR, 

biweekly stress-tests, issuer credit spreads and default risk calcula-

tions, as well as other factors, are used to determine appropriate 

capital levels. Market risk capital is allocated to each business 

segment based on its risk assessment. See Market Risk Manage-

ment on pages 142Œ146 of this Annual Report for more informa-

tion about these market risk measures.
Operational risk capital 
Capital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk 
using a risk-based capital allocation methodology which estimates 

operational risk on a bottom-up basis. The operational risk capital 

model is based on actual losses and potential scenario-based stress 

losses, with adjustments to the capital calculation to reflect 

changes in the quality of the control environment or the use of risk-

transfer products. The Firm believes its model is consistent with the 

Basel II Framework. See Operational Risk Management on pages 

147Œ148 of this Annual Report for more information about opera-

tional risk. 
Private equity risk capital 
Capital is allocated to privately- and publicly-held securities, 

third-party fund investments, and commitments in the private 

equity portfolio to cover the potential loss associated with a 

decline in equity markets and related asset devaluations. In 

addition to negative market fluctuations, potential losses in 

private equity investment portfolios can be magnified by liquidity 

risk. Capital allocation for the private equity portfolio is based on 

measurement of the loss experience suffered by the Firm and 

other market participants over a prolonged period of adverse 

equity market conditions. 
Line of business equity 
 The Firm™s framework for allocating capital is based
 on the follow-
ing objectives:  
· Integrate firmwide capital management activities with capital 
management activities within each of the lines of business; 
· Measure performance consistently across all lines of business; 

and  
· Provide comparability with peer firms for each of the lines of 

business  
Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm be-

lieves the business would require if it were operating independ-

ently, incorporating sufficient capital to address economic risk 

measures, regulatory capital requirements and capital levels for 

similarly rated peers. Capital is also allocated to each line of busi-

ness for, among other things, goodwill and other intangibles asso-

ciated with acquisitions effected by the line of business. Return on 

common equity is measured and internal targets for expected 

returns are established as key measures of a business segment™s 

performance.  
Line of business equity
   
December 31, (in billions) 
 20
10
 2009
Investment Bank 
$ 
  40.0
  $   33.0
Retail Financial Services 
   28.0
   25.0
Card Services 
   15.0
   15.0
Commercial Banking 
   8.0
   8.0
Treasury & Securities Services 
   6.5
   5.0
Asset Management 
   6.5
   7.0
Corporate/Private Equity 
   64.3
   64.2
Total common stockhol
ders™ equity
 $ 
168.3
  $ 157.2
 Line of business 
equity
 Yearly Average 
(in billions) 
 2010
  
2009
 2008
Investment Bank 
  $   40.0
 $    33.0  $    26.1
Retail Financial Services 
   28.0
    25.0   19.0
Card Services 
   15.0
    15.0   14.3
Commercial Banking 
   8.0
    8.0   7.3
Treasury & Securities Services
    6.5
    5.0   3.8
Asset Management 
   6.5
    7.0   5.6
Corporate/Private Equity 
   57.5
    52.9   53.0
Total common 
 stockholders™ equity
   $ 161.5
 $  145.9  $ 129.1
Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm enhanced its line of business 

equity framework to better align equity assigned to the lines of 

business with changes anticipated to occur in each line of busi-

ness, and to reflect the competitive and regulatory landscape. The 

lines of business are now capitalized based on the Tier 1 common 

standard, rather than the Tier 1 capital standard. In 2011, the 

Firm will further evaluate its line-of-business equity framework as 

appropriate to reflect future Basel III Tier 1 common capital 

requirements. 

 106 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Capital actions 
Dividends 
On
 February 23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the Firm™s 
quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 per share, 
effective with the dividend paid on April 30, 2009, to sharehold-

ers of record on April 6, 2009. The action enabled the Firm to 

retain approximately $5.5 billion in common equity in each of 

2010 and 2009, and was taken to ensure the Firm had sufficient 

capital strength in the event the very weak economic conditions 

that existed at the beginning of 2009 deteriorated further. 

JPMorgan Chase declared quarterly cash dividends on its com-

mon stock in the amount of $0.05 per share for each quarter of 

2010 and 2009.  
For information regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 23 and 
Note 28 on pages 267Œ268 and 273, respectively, of this Annual 

Report. 
The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based 
on reported net income. 
Year ended December 31, 
2010
 2009 2008
Common dividend payout ratio 
     5%
   9%
 114%
 Issuance 
On June 5, 2009, the Firm issued $5.8 billion, or 163 million 

shares, of common stock at $35.25 per share. On September 30, 

2008, the Firm issued $11.5 billion, or 284 million shares, of com-

mon stock at $40.50 per share. The proceeds from these issuances 

were used for general corporate purposes. For additional informa-

tion regarding common stock, see Note 24 on page 268 of this 

Annual Report. 
Capital Purchase Program 
Pursuant to the U.S. Treasury™s Capital Purchase Program, on Octo-

ber 28, 2008, the Firm issued to the U.S. Treasury, for total pro-

ceeds of $25.0 billion, (i) 2.5 million shares of Series K Preferred 

Stock, and (ii) a Warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 shares of 

the Firm™s common stock, at an exercise price of $42.42 per share, 

subject to certain antidilution and other adjustments. On June 17, 

2009, the Firm redeemed all of the outstanding shares of Series K 

Preferred Stock and repaid the full $25.0 billion principal amount 

together with accrued dividends. The U.S. Treasury exchanged the 

Warrant for 88,401,697 warrants, each of which is a warrant to 

purchase a share of the Firm™s common stock at an exercise price of 

$42.42 per share, and, on December 11, 2009, sold the warrants in a 

secondary public offering for $950 million. The Firm did not purchase 

any of the warrants sold by the U.S. Treasury. 
Stock repurchases 

Under the stock repurchase program authorized by the Firm™s Board 

of Directors, the Firm is authorized to repurchase up to $10.0 

billion of the Firm™s common stock plus the 88 million warrants sold 

by the U.S. Treasury in 2009. During 2009, the Firm did not repur-

chase any shares of its common stock or warrants. In the second 

quarter of 2010, the Firm resumed common stock repurchases, and 

during the year repurchased an aggregate of 78 million shares for 

$3.0 billion at an average price per share of $38.49. The Firm™s 

share repurchase activities in 2010 were intended to offset share-

count increases resulting from employee stock-based incentive 

awards and were consistent with the Firm™s goal of maintaining an 

appropriate sharecount. The Firm did not repurchase any of the 

warrants during 2010. As of December 31, 2010, $3.2 billion of 

authorized repurchase capacity remained with respect to the com-

mon stock, and all of the authorized repurchase capacity remained 

with respect to the warrants.
 The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans 

under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to 

facilitate the repurchase of common stock and warrants in accor-

dance with the repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase 

plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it 

would not otherwise be repurchasing common stock Œ for example, 

during internal trading ﬁblack-out periods.ﬂ All purchases under a 

Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan 

established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic 

information. 
The authorization to repurchase common stock and warrants will be 
utilized at management™s discretion, and the timing of purchases and 

the exact number of shares and warrants purchased is subject to 

various factors, including market conditions; legal considerations 

affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm™s 

capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles); inter-

nal capital generation; and alternative potential investment opportu-

nities. The repurchase program does not include specific price targets 

or timetables; may be executed through open market purchases or 

privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of Rule 

10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any time.  
For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm™s equity 
securities, see Part II, Item 5, Market for registrant™s common equity, 

related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities, 

on pages 13Œ14 of JPMorgan Chase™s 2010 Form 10-K.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 107 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase™s business activities. The 
Firm™s risk management framework and governance structure are 

intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoing manage-

ment of the major risks taken in its business activities. The Firm 

employs a holistic approach to risk management to ensure the 

broad spectrum of risk types are considered in managing its busi-

ness activities. The Firm™s risk management framework is intended 

to create a culture of risk awareness and personal responsibility 

throughout the Firm where collaboration, discussion, escalation and 

sharing of information is encouraged.  
The Firm™s overall risk appetite is established in the context of the 
Firm™s capital, earnings power, and diversified business model. The 

Firm employs a formal risk appetite framework to clearly link risk 

appetite and return targets, controls and capital management. The 

Firm™s CEO is responsible for setting the overall risk appetite of the 

Firm and the LOB CEOs are responsible for setting the risk appetite 

for their respective lines of business. The Risk Policy Committee of 

the Firm™s Board of Directors approves the risk appetite policy on 

behalf of the entire Board of Directors. 
Risk governance 
 The Firm™s risk governance structure is based on the principle that 
each line of business is responsible for managing the risk inherent 

in its business, albeit with appropriate Corporate oversight. Each 

line of business risk committee is responsible for decisions regarding 

the business™ risk strategy, policies and controls.  
Overlaying line of business risk management are four corporate 
functions with risk managementŒrelated responsibilities: Risk 

Management, the Chief Investment Office, Corporate Treasury, 

and Legal and Compliance.  
Risk Management operates independently to provide oversight of 

firmwide risk management and controls, and is viewed as a part-

ner in achieving appropriate business objectives. Risk Management 

coordinates and communicates with each line of business through 

the line of business risk committees and chief risk officers to man-

age risk. The Risk Management function is headed by the Firm™s 

Chief Risk Officer, who is a member of the Firm™s Operating 

Committee and who reports to the Chief Executive Officer and the 

Board of Directors, primarily through the Board™s Risk Policy 

Committee. The Chief Risk Officer is also a member of the line of 

business risk committees. Within the Firm™s Risk Management 

function are units responsible for credit risk, market risk, opera-

tional risk and private equity risk, as well as risk reporting, risk 

policy and risk technology and operations. Risk technology and 

operations is responsible for building the information technology 

infrastructure used to monitor and manage risk.  
The Chief Investment Office and Corporate Treasury are respon-
sible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the 

Firm™s liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange risk, and 

other structural risks.  
Legal and Compliance has oversight for legal and fiduciary risk.  

In addition to the risk committees of the lines of business and the 
above-referenced risk management functions, the Firm also has 

an Investment Committee, an Asset-Liability Committee and three 

other risk-related committees Œ the Risk Working Group, the 

Global Counterparty Committee and the Markets Committee. All 

of these committees are accountable to the Operating Commit-

tee. The membership of these committees are composed of senior 

management of the Firm, including representatives of lines of 

business, Risk Management, Finance and other senior executives. 

The committees meet frequently to discuss a broad range of 

topics including, for example, current market conditions and other 

external events, risk exposures, and risk concentrations to ensure 

that the impact of risk factors are considered broadly across the 

Firm™s businesses. 

 108 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 The Asset-Liability Committee, chaired by the Corporate Treas-
urer, monitors the Firm™s overall interest rate risk and liquidity 

risk. ALCO is responsible for reviewing and approving the Firm™s 

liquidity policy and contingency funding plan. ALCO also reviews 

the Firm™s funds transfer pricing policy (through which lines of 

business ﬁtransferﬂ interest rate and foreign exchange risk to 

Corporate Treasury in the Corporate/Private Equity segment), 

earnings at risk, overall interest rate position, funding require-

ments and strategy, and the Firm™s securitization programs (and 

any required liquidity support by the Firm of such programs). 
The Investment Committee, chaired by the Firm™s Chief Financial 
Officer, oversees global merger and acquisition activities undertaken 

by JPMorgan Chase for its own account that fall outside the scope of 

the Firm™s private equity and other principal finance activities.  
The Risk Working Group, chaired by the Firm™s Chief Risk Officer, 
meets monthly to review issues that cross lines of business such as 

risk policy, risk methodology, risk concentrations, regulatory capital 

and other regulatory issues, and such other topics referred to it by line 

of business risk committees. 
The Markets Committee, chaired by the Firm™s Chief Risk Officer, 
meets weekly to review, monitor and discuss significant risk matters, 

which may include credit, market and operational risk issues; market 

moving events; large transactions; hedging strategies; reputation risk; 

conflicts of interest; and other issues.  
The Global Counterparty Committee, chaired by the Firm™s Chief Risk 

Officer, reviews exposures to counterparties when such exposure 

levels are above portfolio-established thresholds. The Committee 

meets quarterly to review total exposures with these counterparties, 

with particular focus on counterparty trading exposures to ensure that 

such exposures are deemed appropriate to support the Firm™s trading 

activities, and to direct changes in exposure levels as needed. 
The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of risk management, 
principally through the Board™s Risk Policy Committee and Audit 

Committee. The Risk Policy Committee oversees senior management 

risk-related responsibilities, including reviewing management policies 

and performance against these policies and related benchmarks. The 

Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of guidelines and policies 

that govern the process by which risk assessment and management is 

undertaken. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews with manage-

ment the system of internal controls that is relied upon to provide 

reasonable assurance of compliance with the Firm™s operational risk 

management processes.  
       Operating Committee   
     
       
(Chief Risk Officer) 
  
     
       
    
     
       
    
    
     
 Asset-Liability 
Committee (ALCO) 
  Investment 
Committee 
  Risk Working  
Group (RWG) 
  Markets 
Committee 
  Global Counterparty 
Committee 
                  
    
    
     
       
    
    
     
                     
  Investment 
Bank Risk 
Committee 
 RFS
 Risk 
Committee 
 Card  
Services 
Risk 
Committee 
 Commercial 
Banking 
Risk 
Committee 
 TSS
 Risk 
Committee 
 Asset 
Management 
Risk 
Committee 
 CIO 
Risk 
Committee 
         Treasury and Chief Investment Office  
Risk Management 
Legal and Compliance
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 109 
Risk monitoring and control 
The Firm™s ability to properly identify, measure, monitor and report risk 
is critical to both its soundness and profitability.
 · Risk identification: The Firm™s exposure to risk through its daily 
business dealings, including lending and capital markets activities, 

is identified and aggregated through the Firm™s risk management 

infrastructure. In addition, individuals who manage risk positions, 

particularly those that are complex, are responsible for identifying 

and estimating potential losses that could arise from specific or 

unusual events that may not be captured in other models, and for 

communicating those risks to senior management. 
· Risk measurement: The Firm measures risk using a variety of 
methodologies, including calculating probable loss, unexpected 

loss and value-at-risk, and by conducting stress tests and making 

comparisons to external benchmarks. Measurement models and 

related assumptions are routinely subject to internal model review, 
empirical validation and benchmarking with the goal of ensuring 

that the Firm™s risk estimates are reasonable and reflective of the 

risk of the underlying positions. 
· Risk monitoring/control: The Firm™s risk management policies and 
procedures incorporate risk mitigation strategies and include ap-

proval limits by customer, product, industry, country and business. 

These limits are monitored on a daily, weekly and monthly basis, 

as appropriate. 
· Risk reporting: The Firm reports risk exposures on both a line of 
business and a consolidated basis. This information is reported to 

management on a daily, weekly and monthly basis, as appropriate. 

There are eight major risk types identified in the business activities 

of the Firm: liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, 

private equity risk, operational risk, legal and fiduciary risk, and 

reputation risk. 
  
 110 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT
The ability to maintain surplus levels of liquidity through economic 
cycles is crucial to financial services companies, particularly during 

periods of adverse conditions. The Firm™s funding strategy is intended 

to ensure liquidity and diversity of funding sources to meet actual and 

contingent liabilities through both normal and stress periods. 
JPMorgan Chase™s primary sources of liquidity include a diversified 
deposit base, which was $930.4 billion at December 31, 2010, and 

access to the equity capital markets and long-term unsecured and 

secured funding sources, including asset securitizations and borrowings 

from FHLBs. Additionally, JPMorgan Chase maintains large pools of 

highly-liquid unencumbered assets. The Firm actively monitors the 

availability of funding in the wholesale markets across various geo-

graphic regions and in various currencies. The Firm™s ability to generate 

funding from a broad range of sources in a variety of geographic loca-

tions and in a range of tenors is intended to enhance financial flexibility 

and limit funding concentration risk.  
Management considers the Firm™s liquidity position to be strong, based 
on its liquidity metrics as of December 31, 2010, and believes that the 

Firm™s unsecured and secured funding capacity is sufficient to meet its 

onŒ and offŒbalance sheet obligations. The Firm was able to access the 

funding markets as needed during 2010 and throughout the recent 

financial crisis. 
Governance 
The Firm™s governance process is designed to ensure that its liquidity 

position remains strong. The Asset-Liability Committee reviews and 

approves the Firm™s liquidity policy and contingency funding plan. 

Corporate Treasury formulates and is responsible for executing the 

Firm™s liquidity policy and contingency funding plan as well as meas-

uring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm™s liquidity risk 

profile. JPMorgan Chase centralizes the management of global funding 

and liquidity risk within Corporate Treasury to maximize liquidity access, 

minimize funding costs and enhance global identification and coordina-

tion of liquidity risk. This centralized approach involves frequent com-

munication with the business segments, disciplined management of 

liquidity at the parent holding company, comprehensive market-

based pricing of all assets and liabilities, continuous balance sheet 

monitoring, frequent stress testing of liquidity sources, and frequent 

reporting to and communication with senior management and the 

Board of Directors regarding the Firm™s liquidity position.  
Liquidity monitoring 

The Firm employs a variety of metrics to monitor and manage 

liquidity. One set of analyses used by the Firm relates to the timing 

of liquidity sources versus liquidity uses (e.g., funding gap analysis 

and parent holding company funding, which is discussed below). A 

second set of analyses focuses on ratios of funding and liquid 

collateral (e.g., measurements of the Firm™s reliance on short-term 

unsecured funding as a percentage of total liabilities, as well as 

analyses of the relationship of short-term unsecured funding to 

highly-liquid assets, the deposits-to-loans ratio and other balance 

sheet measures).  
The Firm performs regular liquidity stress tests as part of its liquidity 
monitoring. The purpose of the liquidity stress tests is intended to 

ensure sufficient liquidity for the Firm under both idiosyncratic and 

systemic market stress conditions. These scenarios evaluate the Firm™s 

liquidity position across a full year horizon by analyzing the net fund-

ing gaps resulting from contractual and contingent cash and collateral 

outflows versus by the Firm™s ability to generate additional liquidity by 

pledging or selling excess collateral and issuing unsecured debt. The 

scenarios are produced for the parent holding company and major 

bank subsidiaries as well as the Firm™s major U.S. broker-dealer 

subsidiaries.  
The idiosyncratic stress scenario employed by the Firm is a JPMor-
gan Chase-specific event that evaluates the Firm™s net funding gap 

after a short-term ratings downgrade from the current level of A-

1+/P-1 to A-2/P-2. The systemic market stress scenario evaluates 

the Firm™s net funding gap during a period of severe market stress 

similar to market conditions in 2008 and assumes the Firm is not 

uniquely stressed versus its peers. The Firm™s liquidity position is 

strong under the Firm-defined stress scenarios outlined above. 
Parent holding company 
Liquidity monitoring on the parent holding company takes into 

consideration regulatory restrictions that limit the extent to which 

bank subsidiaries may extend credit to the parent holding company 

and other nonbank subsidiaries. Excess cash generated by parent 

holding company issuance activity is placed with both bank and 

nonbank subsidiaries in the form of deposits and advances to 

satisfy a portion of subsidiary funding requirements. The remainder 

of the excess cash is used to purchase liquid collateral through 

reverse repurchase agreements. As discussed below, the Firm™s 

liquidity management activities are also intended to ensure that its 

subsidiaries have the ability to generate replacement funding in the 

event the parent holding company requires repayment of the 

aforementioned deposits and advances.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 111 
The Firm closely monitors the ability of the parent holding company 
to meet all of its obligations with liquid sources of cash or cash 
equivalents for an extended period of time without access to the 

unsecured funding markets. The Firm targets pre-funding of parent 

holding company obligations for at least 12 months; however, due 

to conservative liquidity management actions taken by the Firm in 

the current environment, the current pre-funding of such obliga-

tions is significantly greater than target. 
Global Liquidity Reserve 
In addition to the parent holding company, the Firm maintains a 

significant amount of liquidity Œ primarily at its bank subsidiaries, but 

also at its nonbank subsidiaries. The Global Liquidity Reserve repre-

sents consolidated sources of available liquidity to the Firm, including 

cash on deposit at central banks, and cash proceeds reasonably 

expected to be received in secured financings of highly liquid, unen-

cumbered securities Œ such as government-issued debt, government- 

and FDIC-guaranteed corporate debt, U.S. government agency debt 

and agency mortgage-backed securities (ﬁMBSﬂ). The liquidity 

amount anticipated to be realized from secured financings is based 

on management™s current judgment and assessment of the Firm™s 

ability to quickly raise secured financings. The Global Liquidity Re-

serve also includes the Firm™s borrowing capacity at various FHLBs, 

the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and various other central 

banks from collateral pledged by the Firm to such banks. Although 

considered as a source of available liquidity, the Firm does not view 

borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and 

various other central banks as a primary source of funding. As of 

December 31, 2010, the Global Liquidity Reserve was approximately 

$262 billion.  
In addition to the Global Liquidity Reserve, the Firm has significant 
amounts of other high-quality, marketable securities available to 

raise liquidity, such as corporate debt and equity securities. 
Basel III 
On December 16, 2010, the Basel Committee published the final 

Basel III rules pertaining to capital and liquidity requirements, includ-

ing minimum standards for short-term liquidity coverage Œ the liquid-

ity coverage ratio (the ﬁLCRﬂ) Œ and term funding Œ the net stable 

funding ratio (the ﬁNSFRﬂ). These minimum standards will be phased 

in over time. The observation period for both the LCR and the NSFR 

commences in 2011, with implementation in 2015 and 2018, respec-

tively. For more information, see the discussion on Basel III on page 

104 of this Annual Report. 
Funding  
 So
urces of funds 
A key strength of the Firm is its diversified deposit franchise, through 
the RFS, CB, TSS and AM lines of business, which provides a stable 

source of funding and decreases reliance on the wholesale markets. 

As of December 31, 2010, total deposits for the Firm were $930.4 

billion, compared with $938.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Aver-

age total deposits for the Firm were $881.1 billion during 2010, 

compared with $882.0 billion during 2009. The Firm typically experi-

ences higher deposit balances at period ends driven by higher sea-

sonal customer deposit inflows. A significant portion of the Firm™s 

deposits are retail deposits (40% and 38% at December 31, 2010 

and 2009, respectively), which are considered particularly stable as 

they are less sensitive to interest rate changes or market volatility. A 

significant portion of the Firm™s wholesale deposits are also consid-

ered stable sources of funding due to the nature of the relationships 

from which they are generated, particularly customers™ operating 

service relationships with the Firm. As of December 31, 2010, the 

Firm™s deposits-to-loans ratio was 134%, compared with 148% at 

December 31, 2009. The decline in the Firm™s deposits-to-loans ratio 

was predominately due to an increase in loans resulting from the 

January 1, 2010, implementation of new accounting guidance re-

lated to VIEs. The impact of the new accounting guidance on the 

deposits-to-loans ratio was partially offset by continued attrition of 

the heritage Washington Mutual residential loan and credit card loan 

portfolios. For further discussions of deposit and liability balance 

trends, see the discussion of the results for the Firm™s business 

segments and the Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 69Œ88 and 92Œ

94, respectively, of this Annual Report. For a more detailed discus-

sion of the adoption of the new accounting guidance, see Note 1 on 

pages 164Œ165 of this Annual Report. 
Additional sources of funding include a variety of unsecured and 
secured short-term and long-term instruments. Short-term unsecured 

funding sources include federal funds and Eurodollars purchased, 

certificates of deposit, time deposits, commercial paper and bank 

notes. Long-term unsecured funding sources include long-term debt, 

trust preferred capital debt securities, preferred stock and common 

stock. 

112 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The Firm™s short-term secured sources of funding consist of securi-
ties loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase and borrowings 
from the Chicago, Pittsburgh and San Francisco FHLBs. Secured 

long-term funding sources include asset-backed securitizations, and 

borrowings from the Chicago, Pittsburgh and San Francisco FHLBs.  
Funding markets are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve an 
appropriate global balance of unsecured and secured funding at 

favorable rates. 
Short-term funding 
The Firm™s reliance on short-term unsecured funding sources such 

as federal funds and Eurodollars purchased, certificates of deposit, 

time deposits, commercial paper and bank notes is limited.  
Total commercial paper liabilities for the Firm were $35.4 billion as 
of December 31, 2010, compared with $41.8 billion as of Decem-

ber 31, 2009. However, of those totals, $29.2 billion and $28.7 

billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, originated 

from deposits that customers chose to sweep into commercial 

paper liabilities as a cash management product offered by the Firm. 

Therefore, commercial paper liabilities sourced from wholesale 

funding markets were $6.2 billion as of December 31, 2010, com-

pared with $13.1 billion as of December 31, 2009. There were no 

material differences between the average and year-end balances of 

commercial paper outstanding for the year ended and as of De-

cember 31, 2010. 
Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are 
secured predominantly by high quality securities collateral, includ-

ing government-issued debt, agency debt and agency MBS. The 

balances of securities loaned or sold under agreements to repur-

chase, which constitute a significant portion of the federal funds 

purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agree-

ments, was $273.3 billion as of December 31, 2010, compared 

with $253.5 billion as of December 31, 2009. There were no mate-

rial differences between the average and year-end balances of 

securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase for the 

year ended and as of December 31, 2010. The balances associated 

with securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 

fluctuate over time due to customers™ investment and financing 

activities; the Firm™s demand for financing; the Firm™s matched 

book activity; the ongoing management of the mix of the Firm™s 

liabilities, including its secured and unsecured financing (for both 

the investment and trading portfolios); and other market and 

portfolio factors. For additional information, see the Balance Sheet 

Analysis on pages 92Œ94, Note 13 on page 219 and Note 20 on page 

264 of this Annual Report. 
The short-term portion of total other borrowed funds for the Firm 

was $34.3 billion as of December 31, 2010, compared with $32.9 

billion as of December 31, 2009. There were no material differ-

ences between the average and year-end balances of other bor-

rowed funds for the year ended and as of December 31, 2010. 
For additional information, see the table for Short-term and other 
borrowed funds on page 299 of this Annual Report. 
Long-term funding and issuance   
During 2010, the Firm issued $36.1 billion of long-term debt, 

including $17.1 billion of senior notes issued in the U.S. market, 

$2.9 billion of senior notes issued in the non-U.S. markets, $1.5 

billion of trust preferred capital debt securities, and $14.6 billion 

of IB structured notes. In addition, in January 2011, the Firm 

issued $4.3 billion of long-term debt, including $3.5 billion of 

senior notes in the U.S. market and $800 million of senior notes 

issued in non-U.S. markets. During 2009, the Firm issued $19.7 

billion of FDIC-guaranteed long-term debt under the Temporary 

Liquidity Guarantee  Program. During 2009, the Firm also issued 

non-FDIC-guaranteed debt of $16.1 billion (including $11.0 

billion of senior notes and $2.5 billion of trust preferred capital 

debt securities issued in the U.S. market, and $2.6 billion of 

senior notes issued in non-U.S. markets) and $15.5 billion of IB 

structured notes. During 2010, $53.4 billion of long-term debt 

matured or were redeemed, including $907 million of trust pre-

ferred capital debt securities redeemed on December 28, 2010, 

through a tender offer, and $22.8 billion of IB structured notes. 

During 2009, $55.7 billion of long-term debt (including trust 

preferred capital debt securities) matured or were redeemed, 

including $27.2 billion of IB structured notes.     
In addition to the unsecured long-term funding and issuances 
discussed above, the Firm securitizes consumer credit card loans, 

residential mortgages, auto loans and student loans for funding 

purposes. Loans securitized by the Firm™s wholesale businesses are 

related to client-driven transactions and are not considered to be a 

source of funding for the Firm. Effective January 1, 2010, certain 

Firm-sponsored credit card loan, student loan and auto loan securi-

tization trusts were consolidated as a result of the accounting 

guidance related to VIEs. As a result of consolidating these securiti-

zation trusts, the maturities or redemptions of the beneficial inter-

ests issued by the securitization trusts are reported as a component 

of the Firm™s cash flows from financing activities. During 2010, the 

Firm did not securitize any credit card loans, residential mortgage 

loans, auto loans or student loans through consolidated or noncon-

solidated securitization trusts. During 2009, the Firm securitized 

$26.5 billion of credit card loans via nonconsolidated securitization 

trusts. During 2010, $25.8 billion of loan securitizations matured or 

were redeemed, including $24.9 billion of credit card loan securiti-

zations, $210 million of auto loan securitizations, $294 million of 

residential mortgage loan securitizations and $326 million of stu-

dent loan securitizations. For further discussion of loan securitiza-

tions, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 in this Annual Report.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 113 
During 2010, the Firm borrowed $18.7 billion of new long-term 
advances from the FHLBs, which were offset by $18.6 billion of 
maturities. During 2009, the Firm did not access the FHLBs for any 

new long-term advances and maturities were $9.5 billion during 

the period. 
Termination of replacement capital covenants   
In connection with the issuance of certain of its trust preferred 

capital debt securities and its noncumulative perpetual preferred 

stock, the Firm had entered into Replacement Capital Covenants 

(ﬁRCCsﬂ). These RCCs granted certain rights to the holders of 

ﬁcovered debt,ﬂ as defined in the RCCs, that prohibited the repay-

ment, redemption or purchase of such trust preferred capital debt 

securities and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock except, with 

limited exceptions, to the extent that JPMorgan Chase had re-

ceived, in each such case, specified amounts of proceeds from the 

sale of certain qualifying securities. On December 10, 2010, the 

Firm received consents from the holders of a majority in liquidation 

amount of the covered debt to the termination of the RCCs, and 

the Firm terminated the RCCs pursuant to their terms. 
Cash flows   
For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, cash and 

due from banks increased $1.4 billion, and decreased $689 million 

and $13.2 billion, respectively. The following discussion highlights 

the major activities and transactions that affected JPMorgan 

Chase™s cash flows during 2010, 2009 and 2008.  
Cash flows from operating activities 
JPMorgan Chase™s operating assets and liabilities support the 

Firm™s capital markets and lending activities, including the origina-

tion or purchase of loans initially designated as held-for-sale. 

Operating assets and liabilities can vary significantly in the normal 

course of business due to the amount and timing of cash flows, 

which are affected by client-driven activities, market conditions and 

trading strategies. Management believes cash flows from opera-

tions, available cash balances and the Firm™s ability to generate 

cash through short- and long-term borrowings are sufficient to fund 

the Firm™s operating liquidity needs. 
For the year ended December 31, 2010, net cash used by operating 
activities was $3.8 billion, mainly driven by an increase primarily in 

trading assetsŠdebt and equity instruments; principally due to 

improved market activity primarily in equity securities, foreign debt 

and physical commodities, partially offset by an increase in trading 

liabilities due to higher levels of positions taken to facilitate cus-

tomer driven trading. Net cash was provided by net income and 

from adjustments for non-cash items such as the provision for 

credit losses, depreciation and amortization and stock-based com-

pensation. Additionally, proceeds from sales and paydowns of 

loans originated or purchased with an initial intent to sell were 

higher than cash used to acquire such loans.  
For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, net cash pro-

vided by operating activities was $122.8 billion and $23.9 billion, 

respectively. In 2009, the net decline in trading assets and liabilities 

was affected by the impact of the challenging capital markets 

environment that existed in 2008, and continued into the first half 

of 2009. In 2009 and 2008, net cash generated from operating 

activities was higher than net income, largely as a result of adjust-

ments for non-cash items such as the provision for credit losses. In 

addition, for 2009 and 2008 proceeds from sales, securitizations 

and paydowns of loans originated or purchased with an initial 

intent to sell were higher than cash used to acquire such loans, but 

the cash flows from these loan activities remained at reduced levels 

as a result of the lower activity in these markets. 
Cash flows from investing activities 
The Firm™s investing activities predominantly include loans originated 

to be held for investment, the AFS securities portfolio and other short-

term interest-earning assets. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 

net cash of $54.0 billion was provided by investing activities. This 

resulted from a decrease in deposits with banks largely due to a 

decline in deposits placed with the Federal Reserve Bank and 

lower interbank lending as market stress eased since the end of 

2009; net sales and maturities of AFS securities used in the Firm™s 

interest rate risk management activities largely due to reposition-

ing of the portfolio in Corporate, in response to changes in the 

interest rate environment and to rebalance exposures; and a net 

decrease in the loan portfolio, driven by the expected runoff of 

the Washington Mutual credit card portfolio, a decline in lower-

yielding promotional credit card balances, continued runoff of the 

residential real estate portfolios, and repayments and loan sales 

in IB and CB; the decrease was partially offset by higher origina-

tions across the wholesale and consumer businesses. Partially 

offsetting these cash proceeds was an increase in securities 

purchased under resale agreements, predominantly due to higher 

financing volume in IB; and cash used for business acquisitions, 

primarily RBS Sempra. 
For the year ended December 31, 2009, net cash of $29.4 billion 
was provided by investing activities, primarily from a decrease in 

deposits with banks reflecting lower demand for inter-bank lending 

and lower deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank relative to the 

elevated levels at the end of 2008; a net decrease in the loan 

portfolio across most businesses, driven by continued lower cus-

tomer demand and loan sales in the wholesale businesses, lower 

charge volume on credit cards, slightly higher credit card securitiza-

tions, and paydowns; and the maturity of all asset-backed commer-

cial paper issued by money market mutual funds in connection with 

the AML facility of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Largely 

offsetting these cash proceeds were net purchases of AFS securities 

associated with the Firm™s management of interest rate risk and 

investment of cash resulting from an excess funding position.  

114 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
For the year ended December 31, 2008, net cash of $283.7 
billion was used in investing activities, primarily for: increased 
deposits with banks as the result of the availability of excess cash 

for short-term investment opportunities through interbank lend-

ing, and reserve balances held by the Federal Reserve (which 

became an investing activity in 2008, reflecting a policy change 

of the Federal Reserve to pay interest to depository institutions on 

reserve balances); net purchases of investment securities in the 

AFS portfolio to manage the Firm™s exposure to interest rate 

movements; net additions to the wholesale loan portfolio from 

organic growth in CB; additions to the consumer prime mortgage 

portfolio as a result of the decision to retain, rather than sell, new 

originations of nonconforming prime mortgage loans; an increase 

in securities purchased under resale agreements reflecting growth 

in demand from clients for liquidity; and net purchases of asset-

backed commercial paper from money market mutual funds in 

connection with the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money 

Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility (ﬁAML facilityﬂ) of the Fed-

eral Reserve Bank of Boston. Partially offsetting these uses of 

cash were proceeds from loan sales and securitization activities 

as well as net cash received from acquisitions and the sale of an 

investment. Additionally, in June 2008, in connection with the 

Bear Stearns merger, the Firm sold assets acquired from Bear 

Stearns to the FRBNY and received cash proceeds of $28.85 

billion. 
Cash flows from financing activities 
 The Firm™s financing activities primarily reflect cash flows related to 

raising customer deposits, and issuing long-term debt (including trust 

preferred capital debt securities) as well as preferred and common 

stock. In 2010, net cash used in financing activities was $49.2 billion. 

This resulted from net payments of long-term borrowings and trust 

preferred capital debt securities as new issuances were more than 

offset by payments primarily reflecting a decline in beneficial inter-

ests issued by consolidated VIEs due to maturities related to Firm-

sponsored credit card securitization trusts; a decline in deposits 

associated with wholesale funding activities due to the Firm™s lower 

funding needs; lower deposit levels in TSS, offset partially by net 

inflows from existing customers and new business in AM, CB and 

RFS; a decline in commercial paper and other borrowed funds due 

to lower funding requirements; payments of cash dividends; and 

repurchases of common stock. Cash was generated as a result of 

an increase in securities sold under repurchase agreements largely 

as a result of an increase in activity levels in IB partially offset by a 

decrease in CIO reflecting repositioning activities. 
In 2009, net cash used in financing activities was $153.1 billion; this 

reflected a decline in wholesale deposits, predominantly in TSS, driven 

by the continued normalization of wholesale deposit levels resulting 

from the mitigation of credit concerns, compared with the heightened 

market volatility and credit concerns in the latter part of 2008; a 

decline in other borrowings, due to the absence of borrowings from 

the Federal Reserve under the Term Auction Facility program; net 

repayments of short-term advances from FHLBs and the maturity of 

the nonrecourse advances under the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 

AML Facility; the June 17, 2009, repayment in full of the $25.0 billion 

principal amount of Series K Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treas-

ury; and the payment of cash dividends on common and preferred 

stock. Cash was also used for the net payment of long-term borrow-

ings and trust preferred capital debt securities, as issuances of FDIC-

guaranteed debt and non-FDIC guaranteed debt in both the U.S. and 

European markets were more than offset by repayments including 

long-term advances from FHLBs. Cash proceeds resulted from an 

increase in securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, 

partly attributable to favorable pricing and to financing the increased 

size of the Firm™s AFS securities portfolio; and the issuance of $5.8 

billion of common stock. There were no repurchases in the open 

market of common stock or the warrants during 2009. 
In 2008, net cash provided by financing activities was $247.0 billion 
due to growth in wholesale deposits, in particular, interest- and 

noninterest-bearing deposits in TSS (driven by both new and existing 

clients, and due to the deposit inflows related to the heightened 

volatility and credit concerns affecting the global markets that began 

in the third quarter of 2008), as well as increases in AM and CB (due 

to organic growth); proceeds of $25.0 billion from the issuance of 

preferred stock and the Warrant to the U.S. Treasury under the Capi-

tal Purchase Program; additional issuances of common stock and 

preferred stock used for general corporate purposes; an increase in 

other borrowings due to nonrecourse secured advances under the 

Federal Reserve Bank of Boston AML Facility to fund the purchase of 

asset-backed commercial paper from money market mutual funds; 

increases in federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold 

under repurchase agreements in connection with higher client de-

mand for liquidity and to finance growth in the Firm™s AFS securities 

portfolio; and a net increase in long-term borrowings due to a combi-

nation of non-FDIC guaranteed debt and trust preferred capital debt 

securities issued prior to December 4, 2008, and the issuance of 

$20.8 billion of FDIC-guaranteed long-term debt issued during the 

fourth quarter of 2008. The fourth-quarter FDIC-guaranteed debt 

issuance was offset partially by maturities of non-FDIC guaranteed 

long-term debt during the same period. The increase in long-term 

borrowings and trust preferred capital debt securities was used 

primarily to fund certain illiquid assets held by the parent holding 

company and to build liquidity. Cash was also used to pay dividends 

on common and preferred stock. The Firm did not repurchase any 

shares of its common stock during 2008. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 115 
Credit ratings 
The cost and availability of financing are influenced by credit ratings. 
Reductions in these ratings could have an adverse effect on the Firm™s 

access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger addi-

tional collateral or funding requirements and decrease the number of 

investors and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. Additionally, 

the Firm™s funding requirements for VIEs and other third-party com-

mitments may be adversely affected by a decline in credit ratings. For 

additional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade 
on the funding requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives and collat-

eral agreements, see Special-purpose entities on page 95 and Ratings 

profile of derivative receivables MTM on page 124, and Note 6 on 

pages 191Œ199, respectively, of this Annual Report. 
Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and 
diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong credit quality 

and risk management controls, diverse funding sources, and disci-

plined liquidity monitoring procedures. 
The credit ratings of the parent holding company and each of the Firm™s significant banking subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010, were as follows.
     Short
-term debt
    Senior long
-term debt
   Moody™s
 S&P
 Fitch
 Moody™s
 S&P
  Fitch
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 P-1  A-1  F1+
 Aa3
  A+
 AA
ŒJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
 P-1  A-1+
  F1+
 Aa1
  AA
Œ AA
ŒChase Bank USA, N.A.
 P-1   A-1+
  F1+
 Aa1
  AA
Œ AA
Œ The senior unsecured ratings from Moody™s, S&P and Fitch on 
JPMorgan Chase and its principal bank subsidiaries remained 

unchanged at December 31, 2010, from December 31, 2009. At 

December 31, 2010, Moody™s and S&P™s outlook remained nega-

tive, while Fitch™s outlook remained stable.  
Following the Firm™s earnings release on January 14, 2011, S&P 
and Moody™s announced that their ratings on the Firm remained 

unchanged. 
If the Firm™s senior long-term debt ratings were downgraded by one 
notch, the Firm believes the incremental cost of funds or loss of 

funding would be manageable, within the context of current mar-
ket conditions and the Firm™s liquidity resources. JPMorgan Chase™s 

unsecured debt does not contain requirements that would call for 

an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in the structure 

of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future borrowings or 

require additional collateral, based on unfavorable changes in the 

Firm™s credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, or stock price.
 Several rating agencies have announced that they will be evaluating 

the effects of the financial regulatory reform legislation in order to 

determine the extent, if any, to which financial institutions, including 

the Firm, may be negatively impacted. There is no assurance the 

Firm™s credit ratings will not be downgraded in the future as a result 

of any such reviews.
  
 116 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 
Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. 
The Firm provides credit (for example, through loans, lending-

related commitments, guarantees and derivatives) to a variety of 

customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to the 

individual consumer. Loans originated or acquired by the Firm™s 

wholesale businesses are generally retained on the balance sheet. 

Credit risk management actively monitors the wholesale portfolio to 

ensure that it is well diversified across industry, geography, risk 

rating, maturity and individual client categories. Portfolio manage-

ment for wholesale loans includes, for the Firm™s syndicated loan 

business, distributing originations into the market place, targeting 

exposure held in the retained wholesale portfolio at less than 10% 

of the customer facility. With regard to the consumer credit market, 

the Firm focuses on creating a portfolio that is diversified from a 

product, industry and geographic perspective. Loss mitigation 

strategies are being employed for all home lending portfolios. 

These strategies include rate reductions, forbearance and other 

actions intended to minimize economic loss and avoid foreclosure. 

In the mortgage business, originated loans are either retained in 

the mortgage portfolio or securitized and sold to U.S. government 

agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises.  
Credit risk organization 
 Credit risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer and 
implemented within the lines of business. The Firm™s credit risk 

management governance consists of the following functions:  
· Establishing a comprehensive credit risk policy framework  
· Monitoring and managing credit risk across all portfolio  
segments, including transaction and line approval 
· Assigning and managing credit authorities in connection with  

the approval of all credit exposure  
· Managing criticized exposures and delinquent loans 
· Determining the allowance for credit losses and ensuring appro-

priate credit risk-based capital management 
Risk identification 
 The Firm is exposed to credit risk through lending and capital 

markets activities. Credit Risk Management works in partnership 

with the business segments in identifying and aggregating expo-

sures across all lines of business.  
Risk measurement  

To measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for 

estimating the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default. Meth-

odologies for measuring credit risk vary depending on several 

factors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer versus wholesale), 

risk measurement parameters (e.g., delinquency status and bor-

rower™s credit score versus wholesale risk-rating) and risk manage-

ment and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center versus 

centrally managed workout groups). Credit risk measurement is 

based on the amount of exposure should the obligor or the coun-

terparty default, the probability of default and the loss severity 

given a default event. Based on these factors and related market-

based inputs, the Firm estimates both probable and unexpected 

losses for the wholesale and consumer portfolios as follows: 
· Probable losses are based primarily upon statistical estimates of 
credit losses as a result of obligor or counterparty default. How-

ever, probable losses are not the sole indicators of risk.  
· Unexpected losses, reflected in the allocation of credit risk capi-

tal, represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to 

the probable level of losses. 
Risk measurement for the wholesale portfolio is assessed primarily 

on a risk-rated basis; for the consumer portfolio, it is assessed 

primarily on a credit-scored basis.  
Risk-rated exposure
  Risk ratings are assigned to differentiate risk within the portfolio 

and are reviewed on an ongoing basis by Credit Risk Management 

and revised, if needed, to reflect the borrowers™ current financial 

positions, risk profiles and the related collateral. For portfolios that 

are risk-rated, probable and unexpected loss calculations are based 

on estimates of probability of default and loss severity given a 

default. These risk-rated portfolios are generally held in IB, CB, TSS 

and AM; they also include approximately $18 billion of certain 

business banking and auto loans in RFS that are risk-rated because 

they have characteristics similar to commercial loans. Probability of 

default is the likelihood that a loan will not be repaid and will 

default. Probability of default is calculated for each client who has a 

risk-rated loan (wholesale and certain risk-rated consumer loans). 

Loss given default is an estimate of losses given a default event and 

takes into consideration collateral and structural support for each 

credit facility. Calculations and assumptions are based on manage-

ment information systems and methodologies which are under 

continual review. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
117
 Credit-scored exposure
  For credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS and CS), probable 
loss is based on a statistical analysis of inherent losses expected to 

emerge over discrete periods of time for each portfolio. The credit-

scored portfolio includes mortgage, home equity, certain business 

banking and auto loans, student loans, as well as credit card loans. 

Probable losses inherent in the portfolio are estimated using sophisti-

cated portfolio modeling, credit scoring and decision-support tools, 

which take into account factors such as delinquency, geography, LTV 

ratios and credit scores.  These analyses are applied to the Firm™s 

current portfolios in order to estimate the severity of losses, which 

determines the amount of probable losses. Other risk characteristics 

utilized to evaluate probable losses include recent loss experience in 

the portfolios, changes in origination sources, portfolio seasoning, 

potential borrower behavior and the macroeconomic environment. 

These factors and analyses are updated at least on a quarterly basis 

or more frequently as market conditions dictate. 
Risk monitoring and control
 The Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to 
preserve the independence and integrity of the approval and deci-

sion-making process of extending credit and to ensure credit risks 

are assessed accurately, approved properly, monitored regularly 

and managed actively at both the transaction and portfolio levels. 

The policy framework establishes credit approval authorities, con-

centration limits, risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review pa-

rameters and guidelines for management of distressed exposure. 
For consumer credit risk, delinquency and other trends, including 
any concentrations at the portfolio level, are monitored for poten-

tial problems, as certain of these trends can be ameliorated through 

changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. Con-

sumer Credit Risk Management evaluates delinquency and other 

trends against business expectations, current and forecasted eco-

nomic conditions, and industry benchmarks. All of these historical 

and forecasted trends are incorporated into the modeling of esti-

mated consumer credit losses and are part of the monitoring of the 

credit risk profile of the portfolio. 
Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly at an aggregate portfo-
lio, industry and individual counterparty basis with established 

concentration limits that are reviewed and revised, as deemed 

appropriate by management, on an annual basis. Industry and 

counterparty limits, as measured in terms of exposure and eco-

nomic credit risk capital, are subject to stress-based loss constraints 

for the aggregate portfolio.  
Management of the Firm™s wholesale exposure is accomplished 

through a number of means including:  
· Loan syndication and participations 
· Loan sales and securitizations  
· Credit derivatives  
· Use of master netting agreements  
· Collateral and other risk-reduction techniques  
In addition to Risk Management, the Firm™s Audit department 
provides periodic reviews, as well as continuous monitoring, where 

appropriate, of the Firm™s consumer and wholesale portfolios. 
In the Firm™s wholesale and certain risk-rated consumer credit 
portfolios, a credit review group within the Audit department is 

responsible for:  
· Independently assessing and validating the changing risk grades 
assigned to exposures; and  
· Evaluating the effectiveness of business units™ risk rating, includ-

ing the accuracy and consistency of risk grades, the timeliness of 

risk grade changes and the justification of risk grades in credit 

memoranda  
In the Firm™s consumer credit portfolio, the Audit department 

periodically tests the internal controls around the modeling process 

including the integrity of the data utilized. In addition, the risk 

inherent in the Firm™s consumer based loans is evaluated using 

models whose construction, assumptions and on-going perform-

ance relative to expectations are reviewed by an independent risk 

management group that is separate from the lines of business. For 

further discussion on consumer loans, see Note 14 on pages 220Œ

238 of this Annual Report. 
Risk reporting 
 To enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making, aggregate 
credit exposure, credit quality forecasts, concentration levels and 

risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior Credit Risk 

Management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer, 

product and geographic concentrations occurs monthly, and the 

appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by 

senior management at least on a quarterly basis. Through the risk 

reporting and governance structure, credit risk trends and limit 

exceptions are provided regularly to, and discussed with, senior 

management. For further discussion of risk monitoring and control, 

see page 109 of this Annual Report.  

 118 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
2010 Credit risk overview 
 During 2010, the credit environment improved compared with 
2009, resulting in decreased downgrade, default and charge-off 
activity and improved delinquency trends. Despite challenging 

macroeconomic conditions, particularly in the first half of 2010, the 

Firm continued to actively manage its underperforming and nonac-

crual loans and reduce such exposures through repayments, loan 

sales and workouts. These efforts resulted in an improvement in the 

credit quality of the portfolio compared with 2009 and contributed 

to the Firm™s reduction in the allowance for credit losses, particu-

larly in CS and IB. During the year and particularly in the second 

half of 2010, customer demand for credit improved, loan origina-

tion activity and market liquidity improved and credit spreads 

tightened from 2009.  
In the wholesale portfolio, criticized assets, nonperforming assets 
and charge-offs decreased from peak loss levels experienced in 

2009, reflecting general improvement in the portfolio, partially 

offset by continued weakness in commercial real estate (ﬁCREﬂ). 

Toward the end of 2010, CRE exposure showed some positive signs 

of stabilization as property values improved somewhat from the 

declines witnessed over the prior two years. The wholesale portfolio 

continues to be actively managed, in part by conducting ongoing, 

in-depth reviews of credit quality and of industry, product and client 

concentrations. Underwriting guidelines across all areas of lending 

have remained in focus, consistent with evolving market conditions 

and the Firm™s risk management activities. Reflecting the improve-
ment in credit quality of the wholesale portfolio throughout the 

year, the wholesale allowance for loan loss coverage ratio was 

2.14%, compared with 3.57% at the end of 2009. For further 

discussion of the wholesale credit environment and wholesale 

loans, see Wholesale Credit Portfolio on pages 120Œ129 and Note 

14 on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual Report. 
The consumer portfolio credit performance improved from 2009 
with lower delinquent loans, nonperforming assets and charge-offs. 

However, credit performance continued to be negatively affected by 

the economic environment. High unemployment and weak overall 

economic conditions continued to have a negative impact in the 

number of loans charged off, while continued weak housing prices 

have resulted in an elevated severity of loss recognized on de-

faulted real estate loans. The Firm has taken proactive action to 

assist homeowners most in need of financial assistance
 throughout 
the economic downturn. The Firm is participating in the U.S. Treas-
ury™s MHA programs and continuing its other loss-mitigation efforts 

for financially distressed borrowers who do not qualify for the U.S. 

Treasury™s programs. In addition, over the past several years, the 

Firm has taken actions to reduce risk exposure to consumer loans 

by tightening both underwriting and loan qualification standards, 

as well as eliminating certain products and loan origination chan-

nels. For further discussion of the consumer credit environment and 

consumer loans, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 129Œ138 

and Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual Report. 
CREDIT PORTFOLIO 
The following table presents JPMorgan Chase™s credit portfolio as 

of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Total credit exposure of $1.8 

trillion at December 31, 2010, decreased by $46.9 billion from 

December 31, 2009, reflecting a decrease of $83.8 billion in the 

consumer portfolio, partly offset by an increase of $36.9 billion in 

the wholesale portfolio. During 2010, lending-related commit-

ments decreased by $36.3 billion, loans decreased by $25.2 

billion and receivables from customers increased by $16.8 billion. 

The overall decrease in total loans was primarily related to re-
payments, low customer demand and loan sales, partially offset 

by the adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs, 

predominantly in the wholesale portfolio. 
While overall portfolio exposure declined, the Firm provided and 
raised nearly $1.4 trillion in new and renewed credit and capital 

for consumers, corporations, small businesses, municipalities and 

not-for-profit organizations during 2010. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
119
 In the table below, reported loans include loans ret
ained; loans held-for-sale (which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, with changes in 
value recorded in noninterest revenue); and loans accounted for at fair value. For additional information on the Firm™s loans and derivative receiv-
ables, including the Firm™s accounting policies, see Notes 14 and 6 on pages 220Œ238 and 191Œ199, respectively, of this Annual Report. Average 

retained loan balances are used for the net charge-off rate calculations. 
Total credit portfolio 
As of or for the year ended  
December 31, 
  Credit exposure 
   Nonperforming
(h)(i) 
   Net charge-offs 
   Average annual
  net charge-off ratio
(j)(k
) (in millions, except ratios)
  2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
 2009
  Total credit portfolio
        
  
Loans retained
(a)
 $  685,498
  $  627,218 
 $ 14,345
  $ 17,219 
 $ 23,673
  $ 22,965 
3.39%
 3.42% 
Loans held-for-sale 
 5,45
3  4,876 
 341
    234 
 Š   Š 
 Š Š Loans at fair value 
 1,976
  1,364 
 155
    111 
 Š   Š 
 Š Š 
Loans Œ reported
(a)
  692,927
  633,458 
 14,841
   17,564 
 23,673
   22,965 
3.39
 3.42
Loans Œ securitized
(a)(b)
  NA
  84,626 
 NA
    Š 
 NA
   6,443 
 NA
 7.55
Total loans
(a)
  692,927
  718,084 
 14,841
    17,564 
 23,673
   29,408 
3.39
 3.88
Derivative receivables 
 80,48
1  80,210 
 34
    529 
 NA
   NA 
 NA
 NA 
Receivables from customers
(c)
  32,541
  15,745 
 Š
    Š 
 Š
   Š 
 Š
 Š Interests in purchased receivables
(a)
(d)
  391
  2,927 
 Š
    Š 
 Š
   Š 
 Š
 Š 
Total credit-related assets
(a)
  806,340
  816,966 
 14,875
    18,093 
 23,673
   29,408 
3.39
 3.88
Lending-related commitments
(a)
(e)
  954,840
  991,095 
 1,005
    1,577 
 Š
   Š 
 Š
 Š 
Assets acquired in loan satisfactions
        
 Real estate owned 
 NA
  NA 
 1,610
    1,548 
 NA
   NA 
 NA
 NA 
Other 
 NA
  NA 
 72
    100 
 NA
   NA 
 NA
 NA 
Total
 assets acquired in loan satisfactions
  NA
  NA 
 1,682
    1,648 
 NA
   NA 
 NA
 NA 
Total credit portfolio
 $ 1,761,
180
   $1,808,061 
 $ 17,
562
  $ 21,318 
 $ 23,673
  $ 29,408 
3.39
% 3.88% 
Net credit derivative hedges notional
(f) $  (23,108)
  $ (48,376)
  $ (55)
  $ (139) 
  NA
   NA 
 NA
 NA
Liquid securities 
and other cash 
collateral
 held against 
derivatives
(g)
 (16,486)
 (15,519)
 NA
    NA 
NA
   NA 
 NA
 NA
(a)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon the adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card 
securitization trusts, its Firm-administered multi-seller conduits and certain other consumer loan securitization entities, primarily mortgage-related. As a result, related assets 
are now primarily recorded in loans or other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As a result of the consolidation of the credit card securitization trusts, reported and 
managed basis are equivalent for periods beginning after January 1, 2010. For further discussion, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(b)
 Loans securitized are defined as loans that were sold to nonconsolidated securitization trusts and were not included in reported loans. For further discussion of credit card 
securitizations, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(c)
 Represents primarily margin loans to prime and retail brokerage customers, which are included in accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(d)
 Represents an ownership interest in cash flows of a pool of receivables transferred by a third-party seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity, generally a trust. 
(e)
 The amounts in nonperforming represent unfunded commitments that are risk rated as nonaccrual. 
(f)
 Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage both performing and non-
performing credit exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. For additional information, see Credit derivatives on pages 126Œ
128 and Note 6 on pages 191Œ199 of this Annual Report.  
(g)
 Represents other liquid securities collateral and other cash collateral held by the Firm.  
(h)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $10.5 billion and $9.0 billion, respec-
tively, that are 90 days past due and accruing at the guaranteed reimbursement rate; (2) real estate owned insured by U.S. government agencies of $1.9 billion and 
$579 million, respectively; and (3) student loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP, of $625 

million and $542 million, respectively. These amounts are excluded as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally. In addition, the Firm™s policy is gener-
ally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination 
Council (ﬁFFIECﬂ). Credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notifica-

tion about a specified event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), whichever is earlier. 
(i)
 Excludes PCI loans acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is accounted for as a single asset 

with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past due status of the pools, or that of individual loans within the pools, is not 
meaningful. Because the Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, they are all considered to be performing. 
(j)
 For the year ended December 31, 2010, net charge-off ratios were calculated using average retained loans of $698.2 billion; and for the year ended December 31, 

2009, average retained loans of $672.3 billion and average securitized loans of $85.4 billion.  
(k)
 For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, firmwide net charge-off ratios were calculated including average PCI loans of $77.0 billion and $85.4 billion, 
respectively. Excluding the impact of PCI loans, the total Firm™s managed net charge-off rate would have been 3.81% and 4.37% respectively. 

 120 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
WHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO 
As of December 31, 2010, wholesale exposure (IB, CB, TSS and AM) 
increased by $36.9 billion from December 31, 2009. The overall 

increase was primarily driven by increases of $23.5 billion in loans 

and $16.8 billion of receivables from customers, partially offset by 

decreases in interests in purchase receivables and lending-related 

commitments of $2.5 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. The de-

crease in lending-related commitments and the increase in loans were 

primarily related to the January 1, 2010, adoption of the accounting 

guidance related to VIEs, which resulted in the elimination of a net 

$17.7 billion of lending-related commitments between the Firm and 
its administrated multi-seller conduits upon consolidation. Assets of 

the consolidated conduits included $15.1 billion of wholesale loans at 

January 1, 2010. Excluding the effect of the accounting guidance, 

lending-related commitments and loans would have increased by 

$16.6 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively, mainly related to in-

creased client activity. The increase in loans also included the pur-

chase of a $3.5 billion loan portfolio in CB during the third quarter of 

2010. The increase of $16.8 billion in receivables from customers was 

due to increased client activity, predominantly in Prime Services.  
Wholesale
   December 31,
   Credit exposure 
   Nonperforming
(f) (in millions) 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
 2009 
Loans retained 
 $  
 222,510
  $  200,077 
 $ 5,510
   $  6,559 
Loans held-for-sale 
  3,147
   2,734 
  341
   234 
Loans at fair value 
  1,976
   1,364 
  155
   111 
Loans 
Œ reported
   227,633
    204,175 
  6,006
    6,904 
Derivative receivables 
  80,481
   80,210 
  34
   529 
Receivables from customers
(a)
   32,541 
  15,745 
  Š 
  Š 
Interests in purchased receivables
(b)
   391 
  2,927 
  Š 
  Š 
Total wholesale credit
-related assets
   341,046
   303,057 
  6,040
   7,433 
Lending-related commitments
(c)
   346,079 
  347,155 
  1,005 
  1,577 
Total wholesale credit exposure
  $  687,125
  $  650,212 
 $ 7,045
   $  9,010 
Net credit derivative hedges notional
(d)
  $   (23,108) 
 $  (48,376) 
 $ (55)
   $    (139) 
Liquid securities and other cash collateral held against derivatives
(e)
   (16,486) 
  (15,519) 
  NA 
  NA 
(a)
 Represents primarily margin loans to prime and retail brokerage customers, which are included in accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets. 
(b)
 Represents an ownership interest in cash flows of a pool of receivables transferred by a third-party seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity, generally a trust. 
(c)
 The amounts in nonperforming represent unfunded commitments that are risk rated as nonaccrual. 
(d)
 Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage both performing and nonperform-
ing credit exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. For additional information, see Credit derivatives on pages 126Œ128, and 
Note 6 on pages 191Œ199 of this Annual Report. 
(e)
 Represents other liquid securities collateral and other cash collateral held by the Firm. 
(f)
 Excludes assets acquired in loan satisfactions.  
The following table presents summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale portfolio as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The ratings scale 
is based on the Firm™s internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody™s. Also included in this table is the 
notional value of net credit derivative hedges; the counterparties to these hedges are predominantly investment grade banks and finance companies. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
121
 Wholesale credit exposure Œ maturity and ratings pro
file 
Maturity profile
(e)  Ratings profile
  December 31, 2010
  (in millions, except ratios) 
Due in 1 
 year or less
 Due after 1 year 
through 5 years
 Due after 
 5 years
 Total 
Investment
-grade (ﬁIGﬂ)
 AAA/Aaa to BBB-/Baa3
 Noninvestment
-grade
 BB+/Ba1 & below
 Total 
Total % 
of IG
 Loans
 $   78,017  $   85,987  $   58,506 $ 222,510 $ 146,047  $   76,463 $ 222,510    
66
% Derivative receivables
(a)
        80,481 
    80,481  
  Less:  Liquid securities 
and other 
cash collateral held 
against derivatives
      (16,486)
     (16,486)
  Total derivative receivables, 
 net of all collateral  
 11,499  24,415  28,081   63,995 47,557  16,438   63,995 
74
 Lending-related commitments
  126,389  209,299  10,391   346,079 276,298  69,781   346,079   
80
 Subtotal 
 215,905  319,701  96,978  632,584 469,902  162,682  632,584   
74
 Loans held
-for
-sale and loans at 
fair value
(b)(c)
   
   5,123 
  
  5,123 
 Receivables from customers
(c)
      32,541 
  
  32,541 
 Interests in purchased 
 receivables
(c)
      391 
  
  391 
 Total exposure 
Œ exclu
ding 
liquid securities and 
other cash collateral 
held against derivatives    $ 670,639 
  
$ 670,639 
 Net credit derivative hedges 
notional
(d)
 $   (1,228) $   (16,415)  $   (5,465) $  (23,108)
  $  (23,159)   $   51 $  (23,108)
   
100
%  Maturity profile
(e)  Ratings profile
  December 31, 2009
 (in millions, except ratios) 
Due in 1 
 year or less
 Due after 1 year 
through 5 years
 Due after 
 5 years
 Total 
Investment
-grade (ﬁIGﬂ)
 AAA/Aaa to BBB-/Baa3
 Noninvestment
-grade
 BB+/Ba1 & below
 Total 
Total % 
of IG 
Loans
  $  
 57,381
  $   79,636
  $   63,060
 $ 200
,07
7 $ 118,531
  $   81,546
 $ 200
,07
7    59
% Derivative receivables
(a)
        80,210 
    80,210   
 Less
:  Liquid securities and other 
cash collateral held 
against derivatives
      (15,519)
     (15,519)
  Total deriv
ative recei
vables, net of 
all collateral  
 7,535  27,123   30,033   64,691 47,305  17,386   64,691 73
 Lending-related commitments
  141,621  198,215  7,319   347,155 280,811  66,344   347,155   81
 Subtotal  
 206,537  304,974  100,412   611,923 446,647  165,276   611,923 73
 Loans held
-for
-sale and loans at 
fair value
(b)(c)
      4,098 
  
  4,098 
 Receivables from customers
(c)
  
    15,745 
  
  15,745 
 Interests in purchased 
 receivables
(c)
   
   2,927 
  
  2,927 
 Total exposure
 Œ exclu
ding 
liquid securities and 
other cash collateral 
held against derivatives 
    $ 634,693 
  
 $ 634,693 
 Net credit derivative hedges 
notional
(d)
 $   (23,568)
  $   (20,322)  $   (4,486)  $  (48,376) $  (48,110)  $   (266)  $  (48,376)   99
% (a)
 Represents the fair value of derivative receivables as reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(b)
 Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value relate primarily to syndicated loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio. 
(c)
 From a credit risk perspective maturity and ratings profiles are not meaningful.  
(d) Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives do not 
qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP.  
(e) The maturity profile of loans and lending-related commitments is based on the remaining contractual maturity. The maturity profile of derivative receivables is based on the maturity profile 
of average exposure. For further discussion of average exposure, see Derivative receivables marked to market on pages 125Œ126 of this Annual Report. 
Customer receivables representing primarily margin loans to prime 
and retail brokerage clients of $32.5 billion and $15.7 billion at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, are included in the table. 

These margin loans are generally over-collateralized through a pledge 

of assets maintained in clients™ brokerage accounts and are subject to 

daily minimum collateral requirements. In the event that the collateral 

value decreases, a maintenance margin call is made to the client to 

provide additional collateral into the account. If additional collateral is 
not provided by the client, the client™s positions may be liquidated by 
the Firm to meet the minimum collateral requirements. 
Wholesale credit exposure Œ selected industry exposures  

The Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its industry 
exposures, with particular attention paid to industries with actual or 
potential credit concerns. Exposures deemed criticized generally repre-

sent a ratings profile similar to a rating of ﬁCCC+ﬂ/ﬂCaa1ﬂ and lower, 

as defined by S&P and Moody™s. The total criticized component of the 

portfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value, de-

creased to $22.4 billion at December 31, 2010, from $33.2 billion at 
year-end 2009. The decrease was primarily related to net repayments 
and loan sales.

 122 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Below are summaries of the top 25 industry exposures as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. For additional information on industry concentrations, 
see Note 5 on pages 189Œ190 of this Annual Report. 
 Wholesale credit exposure Œ selected industry exposures
      Liquid securities 
and other  
   30 days or
   cash colla
teral
  As of or for the year ended
  Noninvestment grade
 more past due
 Ye
ar
-to
-date
 Credit
 held against
  December 31, 2010 
(in millions) 
Credit
 exposure
(c)
 Investment 
 grade Noncriticized 
Criticized 
performing 
Criticized  
nonperforming
 and accruing 
loans 
net charge-offs/
 (recoveries) 
derivative 
hedges
(d)
 derivative 
receivables  
Top 25 industries
(a)
     
    
  Banks and finance companies 
  $   65,867  $  54,839  $   10,428  $     467  $     133  $     26  $     69  $     (3,456)
 $    (9,216) 
Real estate 
  64,351   34,440   20,569   6,404   2,938   399   862   (76)
 (57) 
Healthcare 
  41,093   33,752   7,019   291   31   85   4   (768)
 (161) 
State and municipal governments 
  35,808   34,641   912   231   24   34   3   (186)
 (233) 
Asset managers  
  29,364   25,533   3,401   427   3   7   Š   Š (2,948) 
Consumer products 
  27,508   16,747   10,379   371   11   217   1   (752)
 (2) 
Oil and gas 
  26,459   18,465   7,850   143   1   24   Š   (87)
 (50) 
Utilities 
  25,911   20,951   4,101   498   361   3   49   (355)
 (230) 
Retail and consumer services 
  20,882   12,021   8,316   338   207   8   23   (623)
 (3) 
Technology 
  14,348   9,355   4,534   399   60   47   50   (158)
 Š Machinery and equipment
 manufacturing 
  13,311   7,690   5,372   244   5   8   2   (74)
 (2) 
Building materials/construction 
  12,808   6,557   5,065   1,129   57   9   6   (308)
 Š Chemicals/plastics  
  12,312   8,375   3,656   274   7   Š   2   (70)
 Š Metals/mining  
  11,426   5,260   5,748   362   56   7   35   (296)
 Š Business services  
  11,247   6,351   4,735   115   46   11   15   (5)
 Š Central government  
  11,173   10,677   496   Š   Š   Š   Š   (6,897)
 (42) 
Media 
  10,967   5,808   3,945   672   542   2   92   (212)
 (3) 
Insurance 
  10,918   7,908   2,690   320   Š   Š   (1)   (805)
 (567) 
Telecom services 
  10,709   7,582   2,295   821   11   3   (8)   (820)
 Š Holding companies 
  10,504   8,375   2,091   38   Š   33   5   Š (362) 
Transportation 
  9,652   6,630   2,739   245   38   Š   (16)   (132)
 Š Securities firms and exchanges 
  9,415   7,678   1,700   37   Š   Š   5   (38)
 (2,358) 
Automotive  
  9,011   3,915   4,822   269   5   Š   52   (758)
 Š Agriculture/paper manufacturing 
  7,368   4,510   2,614   242   2   8   7   (44)
 (2) 
Aerospace 
  5,732   4,903   732   97   Š   Š   Š   (321)
 Š All other
(b)
   140,926   122,594   14,924   2,402   1,006   921   470   (5,867)
 (250) 
Subtotal
    649,070   485,557    141,133   16,836    5,544    1,852       1,727     (23,108)
   (16,486) 
Loans held
-for
-sale and loans at 
 fair value 
  5,123   
    
    Receivables from customers 
  32,541  
     
  Interest in purchased receivables  
  391  
       Total 
  $  687,125 $  485,557  $ 141,133  $ 16,836  $ 5,544  $ 1,852  $    1,727  $   (23,108)
   $  (16,486) 
 Presented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm 
has significant exposure, as well as industries the Firm continues to 
monitor because of actual or potential credit concerns. For additional 

information, refer to the tables above and on the preceding page. 
 · Banks and finance companies:
 Exposure to this industry 
increased by 22% or $11.8 billion, and criticized exposure de-

creased 71%, compared with 2009. This portfolio experienced 

improvement in credit quality as a result of growth in invest-

ment-grade lending, as well as upgrades in risk ratings to fi-

nancial counterparties. 
· Real estate:
 Real estate loans decreased by 6% or $3.6 
billion from 2009, including a 19% decline in the criticized 

portion of the portfolio, mainly as a result of repayments and 

loans sales. While this sector continued to be challenged 

throughout 2010, the portfolio experienced stabilization to-

ward the end of the year. The ratio of nonaccrual loans to total 

loans increased due to a downgrade of a loan to nonaccrual in 
the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding this downgrade, the ratio 

would have improved in line with the broader real estate port-

folio. For further discussion on commercial real estate loans, 

see Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual Report.
 · State and municipal governments:
 Exposure to this seg-
ment increased by $1.1 billion or 3% in 2010 to $35.8 billion. 

Lending-related commitments comprise approximately 70% of 

exposure to this sector, mainly bond liquidity and standby let-

ter of credit commitments. Credit quality of the portfolio re-

mains high as 97% of the portfolio was rated investment 

grade, up from 93% in 2009. Criticized exposure was less than 

1% of this industry™s exposure. The Firm continues to actively 

monitor and manage this exposure in light of the challenging 

environment faced by state and municipal governments. For 

further discussion of commitments for bond liquidity and 

standby letters of credit, see Note 30 on pages 275Œ280 of 

this Annual Report. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
123
      Liquid securities 
 and other
     30 days or  
 cash collateral  
As of or for the year ended
  Noninvestment grade
 more past due
 Year
-to
-date
 Credit
 held against
  December 31, 2009 
(in millions)
 Credit 
exposure
(c)
 Investment 
 grade
 Noncriticized
 Criticized 
performing
 Criticized 
nonperforming
 and accruing 
loans
 net charge-offs/
 (recoveries)
 derivative
 hedges
(d)
 derivative 
receivables
  Top 25 industries
(a)
    
   
    
Banks and finance companies
  $ 54,053
  $ 43,576
  $ 8,424
  $ 1,559
  $ 494
  $    
 43
  $ 719
   $ (3,718)
 $   
(8,353
 ) Real estate
   68,509
    37,724
   
 18
,810
   8,872 
   3,103
   937
      
688
    (1,168)
          
(35
 ) Healthcare
   35,605
   29,576
   5,700
   310
   19
   30
   10
   (2,545)
  (125
 ) State and municipal gover
nments
   34,726
   32,410
   1,850
   400
   66
   15
   Š   (204)
  (193
 ) Asset managers
   24,920
   20,498
   3,742
   442
   238
   28
   7   (40)
  (2,105
 ) Consumer products 
  27,004
   17,384   9,105   479   36   13   35   (3,638) 
 (4
 ) 
Oil and gas
   23,322
   17,082
   5,854
   378
   8   28
   16
   (2,567)
  (6
 ) Utilities
   27,178
   22,063
   3,8
77
   1,236
   2   3   182
   (3,486)
  (360
 ) Retail and consumer services
   20,673
   12,024
   7,867
   687
   95
   10
   35
   (3,073)
  Š  Technology 
   14,169
   8,877
   4,004
   1,125
   163
   5   28
   (1,730)
  (130
 ) Machinery and equipment  
 manufacturing  
  12,759
   7,287   5,122   329   21   13   12   (1,327) 
 (1
 ) 
Building materials/construction
   10,448
   4,512
   4,537
   1,309
   90
   19
   98
   (1,141)
  Š  Chemicals/plastics
   9,870
   6,633
   2,626
   600
   11
   5   22
   (1,357)
  Š  Metals/mining 
   12,547
   7,002
   4,906
   547
   92
   4   24
   (1,963)
  Š  Business services
   10,667
   6,464
   3,859
   241
   103
   7   8   (107)
  Š  Central government 
   9,557
   9,480
   77
   Š   Š   Š   Š   (4,814)
  (30
 ) Media 
  12,379
   6,789   3,898   1,056   636   57   464   (1,606) 
 Š
  Insurance
   13,421
   9,221
   3,601
   581
   18
   Š   7   (2,735)
  (793
 ) Telecom services
   11,265
   7,741
   3,273
   191
   60
   Š   31
   (3,455)
  (62
 ) Holding companies
   16,018
   13,801
   2,107
   42
   68
   44
   275
   (421
)  (320
 ) Transportation
   9,749
   6,416
   2,745
   553
   35
   41
   61
   (870)
  (242
 ) Securities firms and exchanges 
   10,832
   8,220
   2,467
   36
   109
   2   Š   (289)
  (2,139
 ) Automotive 
  9,357
   3,865   4,252   1,195   45   2   52   (1,541) 
 Š
  Agriculture/paper manufactu
ring 
   5,801
   2,169
   3,132
   331
   169
   36
   10
   (897)
  Š  Aerospace
   5,254
   4,442
   743
   69
   Š   13
   Š   (963
)  Š  All other
(b)
   137,359
   115,446
   16,979
   3,527
   1,407
   671
   348
   (2,721
)  (621
 ) Subtot
al
   627,442
    460,702
    133,557
   26,095 
   7,088
       
2,026
    3,132
    (48,376)
   (15,519
 ) Loans held-for-sale and loans at  
fair value
   4,098
          Receivables from customers
   15,745
          Interest in purchased recei
vables
   2,927
          Total 
  $ 650,212
  $  460,702  $ 133,557  $ 26,095   $ 7,088   $    2,026   $ 3,132   $ (48,376)  $ (15,519
 ) 
(a) All industry rankings are based on exposure at December 31, 2010. The industry rankings presented in the 2009 table are based on the industry rankings of the corresponding 
exposures at December 31, 2010, not actual rankings of such exposures at December 31, 2009. 
(b) For more information on exposures to SPEs included in all other, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report.
 (c) Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivative hedges and collateral held against derivative receivables or loans.  
(d) Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives 
do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP.  
· Media: 
Exposure to this industry decreased by 11% in 2010 to 
$11.0 billion. Credit quality in this portfolio stabilized somewhat 
in 2010 as a result of repayments and loan sales. Criticized expo-

sure also decreased by 28% from 2009 to $1.2 billion, but re-

mains elevated relative to total industry exposure due to 

continued pressure on the traditional media business model from 

expanding digital and online technology. 
· All other:
 All other at December 31, 2010 (excluding loans held-
for-sale and loans at fair value), included $140.9 billion of credit 

exposure to eight industry segments. Exposures related to: (1) 

Individuals, Private Education & Civic Organizations were 47% 

and (2) SPEs were 39% of this category. SPEs provide secured 

financing (generally backed by receivables, loans or bonds with a 

diverse group of obligors). For further discussion of SPEs, see 

Note 1 on pages 164Œ165 of this Annual Report. The remaining 

all other exposure is well-diversified across industries and none 

comprise more than 6% of total exposure. 

 124 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The following table presents the geographic distribution of wholesale credit, nonperforming assets and past due loans as of December 31, 2010 and 
2009. The geographic distribution of the wholesale portfolio is determined based predominantly on the domicile of the borrower. 
       
  Assets  30 days or 
 Credit exposure 
 Nonperforming 
 acquired  more past  
December 31, 2010  
(in millions) 
Loans 
Lending-
related 
commitments 
Derivative 
 receivables 
Total credit 
 exposure 
Loans
(a)
 Derivatives 
Lending-related
 commitments 
Total
  nonperforming
(b)
 in loan  
satisfactions
  due and 

 accruing loans
 Europe/Middle East 
 and Africa 
  $ 27,934
  $ 58,418 
 $ 35,196 
 $ 121,548 
 $ 153 
 $ 1 
 $ 23 
 $ 177 
 $ Š
 $    127
Asia and Pacific 
  20,552
   15,002 
  10,991 
  46,545 
  579 
  21 
  Š 
  600 
  Š
 74
Latin America and the 
 Caribbean 
  16,480
   12,170 
  5,634 
  34,284 
  649 
  Š 
  13 
  662 
  1
 131
Other 
  1,185
   6,149 
  2,039 
  9,373 
  6 
  Š 
  5 
  11 
  Š
 ŠTotal non-U.S. 
  66,151
   91,739 
  53,860 
  211,750 
  1,387 
  22 
  41 
  1,450 
  1
 332
Total U.S. 
  156,359
   254,340 
  26,621 
  437,320 
  4,123 
  12 
  964 
  5,099 
  320
 1,520
Loans held
-for
-sale and 
loans at fair value 
  5,123
   Š 
  Š 
  5,123 
  496 
  NA 
  Š 
  496 
  NA
 ŠReceivables from 
customers 
  Š
   Š 
  Š 
  32,541 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA
 ŠInterests in purchased 
 receivables 
  Š
   Š   Š   391 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA
 ŠTotal 
 $ 227,633
  $ 346,079  $ 80,481  $ 687,125 
 $ 6,006 
 $ 34 
 $ 1,005 
 $ 7,045 
 $ 321
 $ 1,852
        
  Assets  30 days or 
 Credit exposure 
 Nonperforming 
 acquired  more past  
December 31, 2009  
(in millions) 
Loans 
Lending-
related 
commitments 
Derivative 
 receivables 
Total credit 
 exposure Loans
(a)
 Derivatives 
Lending-related
 commitments 
Total
  nonperforming
(b)
 in loan  
satisfactions
  due and 

 accruing loans
 Europe/Middle East 
 and Africa 
  $ 26,688 
 $ 56,106 
 $ 37,411  $ 120,205
  $ 269  $ Š 
 $ 22 
 $ 291 
 $ Š  $    103
Asia and Pacific   11,612 
  13,450 
  8,784  33,846
   357   2 
  1 
  360 
  Š   Š
Latin America and the 
 Caribbean   13,350 
  10,249 
  6,948  30,547
   272   3 
  6 
  281 
  52   134
Other 
  1,967 
  5,895 
  1,467  9,329
   81   Š 
  Š 
  81 
  Š   54
Total non-U.S.   53,617 
  85,700 
  54,610  193,927
   979   5 
  29 
  1,013 
  52   291
Total U.S. 
  146,460 
  261,455 
  25,600  433,515
   5,580   524 
  1,548 
  7,652 
  341   1,735
Loans held
-for
-sale and 
loans at fair value   4,098 
  Š 
  Š  4,098
   345   NA 
  Š 
  345 
  NA   Š
Receivables from 
customers   Š 
  Š 
  Š  15,745
   NA   NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA   Š
Interests in purchased 
 receivables   Š   Š   Š  2,927
   NA   NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA   Š
Total 
 $ 204,175  $ 347,155  $ 80,210 $ 650,212
  $ 6,904  $ 529 
 $ 1,577 
 $ 9,010 
 $ 393 $ 2,026
(a)
 The Firm held allowance for loan losses of $1.6 billion and $2.0 billion related to nonaccrual retained loans resulting in allowance coverage ratios of 29% and 31% at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively. Wholesale nonaccrual loans represent 2.64% and 3.38% of total wholesale loans at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(b)
 Total nonperforming include nonaccrual loans, nonperforming derivatives and nonperforming lending-related commitments. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
125
 Loans 
In the normal course of business, the Firm provides loans to a 
variety of wholesale customers, from large corporate and institu-
tional clients to high-net-worth individuals. For further discussion on 

loans, including information on credit quality indicators, see Note 14 

on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual Report. 
Retained wholesale loans were $222.5 billion at December 31, 2010, 
compared with $200.1 billion at December 31, 2009. The $22.4 

billion increase was primarily related to the January 1, 2010, adoption 

of accounting guidance related to VIEs. Excluding the effect of the 

adoption of the accounting guidance, loans increased by $7.4 billion. 

Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value relate primarily to syndi-

cated loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio. 
 The Firm actively manages wholesale credit exposure through sales of 
loans and lending-related commitments. During 2010 the Firm sold 

$7.7 billion of loans and commitments, recognizing revenue gains of 

$98.9 million. In 2009, the Firm sold $3.9 billion of loans and com-

mitments, recognizing net losses of $38 million. These results in-

cluded gains or losses on sales of nonaccrual loans, if any, as 

discussed below. These activities are not related to the Firm™s securiti-

zation activities. For further discussion of securitization activity, see 

Liquidity Risk Management and Note 16 on pages 110Œ115 and 

244Œ259 respectively, of this Annual Report. 
The following table presents the change in the nonaccrual loan 
portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
Wholesale nonaccrual loan activity
(a)
 Year ended December 31, (in millions)
 2010
 2009
Beginning balance 
 $ 6,904
  $ 2,382
Additions 
  9,
249
   13,591
Reductions:
   Paydowns and other 
  5,
540
   4,964
Gross charge-offs 
  1,
854
   2,974
Returned to performing 
  364
   341
Sales 
  2,
389
   790
Total reductions
   10,
147
   9,069
Net additions
/(reductions)
   (898)
   4,522
Ending balance
  $ 6,006
  $ 6,904
(a) This table includes total wholesale loans Œ reported. 
Nonaccrual wholesale loans decreased by $898 million from Decem-
ber 31, 2009, reflecting primarily net repayments and loan sales. 
The following table presents net charge-offs, which are defined as 

gross charge-offs less recoveries, for the years ended December 31, 

2010 and 2009. The amounts in the table below do not include 

revenue gains from sales of nonaccrual loans. 
Wholesale net charge
-offs 
  Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
  2010 
2009
 Loans 
Œ reported
     Average loans retained 
  $ 
213,609
 $ 223,047
     Net charge-offs 
  1,727
   3,132
    Average annual net charge-off ratio 
      
0.81%
          1.40
 % 
 Derivative contracts 

In the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative instru-

ments predominantly for market-making activity. Derivatives enable 

customers and the Firm to manage exposures to fluctuations in 

interest rates, currencies and other markets. The Firm also uses 

derivative instruments to manage its credit exposure. For further 

discussion of derivative contracts, see Note 5 and Note 6 on pages 

189Œ190 and 191Œ199, respectively, of this Annual Report. 
The following tables summarize the net derivative receivables MTM 
for the periods presented.  
Derivative receivables MTM 
December 31,
 Derivative receivables MTM
  (in millions) 
2010
 2009 
Interest rate
(a)
  $ 32,555
  $ 33,733 
Credit derivatives
(a)
  
7,725 
11,859
Foreign exchange 
25,858
 21,984
Equity  
4,204
 6,635
Commodity  
10,139
 5,999
Total, net of cash collateral
 80,481
 80,210
Liquid securities 
and other cash 
 collateral held against derivative  
receivables 
(16,486)
 (15,519) 
Total, net of all collateral
  $ 63,995
  $ 64,691 
(a) In 2010, the reporting of cash collateral netting was enhanced to reflect a 
refined allocation by product. Prior periods have been revised to conform to 
the current presentation. The refinement resulted in an increase to interest rate 
derivative receivables, and an offsetting decrease to credit derivative receiv-
ables, of $7.0 billion as of December 31, 2009. 
Derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets were $80.5 billion and $80.2 billion at December 31, 
2010 and 2009, respectively. These represent the fair value (e.g. 

MTM) of the derivative contracts after giving effect to legally 

enforceable master netting agreements, cash collateral held by 

the Firm and the credit valuation adjustment (ﬁCVAﬂ). These 

amounts reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets represent 

the cost to the Firm to replace the contracts at current market 

rates should the counterparty default. However, in management™s 

view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk should also 

reflect additional liquid securities and other cash collateral held 

by the Firm of $16.5 billion and $15.5 billion at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively, resulting in total exposure, net of 

all collateral, of $64.0 billion and $64.7 billion at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively.  
The Firm also holds additional collateral delivered by clients at the 
initiation of transactions, as well as collateral related to contracts that 

have a non-daily call frequency and collateral that the Firm has 

agreed to return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. 

Though this collateral does not reduce the balances noted in the table 

above, it is available as security against potential exposure that could 

arise should the MTM of the client™s derivative transactions move in 

the Firm™s favor. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm held 

$18.0 billion and $16.9 billion, respectively, of this additional collat-

eral. The derivative receivables MTM, net of all collateral, also do not 

include other credit enhancements, such as letters of credit.  

 126 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net MTM 
value of the derivative receivables does not capture the potential 
future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potential 

future variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-

by-client basis, three measures of potential derivatives-related 

credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (ﬁDREﬂ), and Average 

exposure (ﬁAVGﬂ). These measures all incorporate netting and 

collateral benefits, where applicable. 
Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure 
calculated at a 97.5% confidence level. DRE exposure is a measure 

that expresses the risk of derivative exposure on a basis intended to 

be equivalent to the risk of loan exposures. The measurement is done 

by equating the unexpected loss in a derivative counterparty exposure 

(which takes into consideration both the loss volatility and the credit 

rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in a loan expo-

sure (which takes into consideration only the credit rating of the 

counterparty). DRE is a less extreme measure of potential credit loss 

than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit 

approval of derivative transactions. 
Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected MTM value of the Firm™s 
derivative receivables at future time periods, including the benefit 

of collateral. AVG exposure over the total life of the derivative 

contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is 

used to calculate credit capital and the CVA, as further described 

below. AVG exposure was $45.3 billion and $49.0 billion at De-

cember 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, compared with derivative 

receivables MTM, net of all collateral, of $64.0 billion and $64.7 

billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  
The MTM value of the Firm™s derivative receivables incorporates an 

adjustment, the CVA, to reflect the credit quality of counterparties. 

The CVA is based on the Firm™s AVG to a counterparty and the 

counterparty™s credit spread in the credit derivatives market. The  

primary components of changes in CVA are credit spreads, new 

deal activity or unwinds, and changes in the underlying market 

environment. The Firm believes that active risk management is 

essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives 

portfolio. In addition, the Firm™s credit approval process takes into 

consideration the potential for correlation between the Firm™s AVG 

to a counterparty and the counterparty™s credit quality. The Firm 

risk manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit 

derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, foreign exchange, 

equity and commodity derivative transactions.  
The accompanying graph shows exposure profiles to derivatives 
over the next 10 years as calculated by the DRE and AVG metrics. 

The two measures generally show declining exposure after the first 

year, if no new trades were added to the portfolio. 
0102030405060708090Exposure profile of derivatives measuresDecember 31, 2010(in billions)AVGDRE1 year2 years5 years10 years
 The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm™s derivative receivables MTM, net of other liquid securities collateral, for the 

dates indicated. 
Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM 
Rating equivalent 
  2010 
   
2009 
 December 31, 
Exposure net of  % of exposure net Exposure net of % of exposure net
  (in millions, except ratios) 
of all collateral of all collateral of all collateral of all collateral  
AAA/Aaa to AA-/Aa3 
  $   23,342 
36%
   $ 25,530 
40
 % 
A+/A1 to A-/A3 
  15,812 
25
   12,432 
19
 BBB+/Baa1 to BBB-/Baa3 
  8,403 
13
   9,343 
14
 BB+/Ba1 to B-/B3 
  13,716 
22
   14,571 
23
 CCC+/Caa1 and below 
  2,722 
4   2,815 
4 Total
   $   63,995  100%
   $ 64,691 
100
 % 
As noted above, the Firm uses collateral agreements to mitigate 
counterparty credit risk in derivatives. The percentage of the Firm™s 

derivatives transactions subject to collateral agreements Œ exclud-

ing foreign exchange spot trades, which are not typically covered by 

collateral agreements due to their short maturity Œ was 88% as of 

December 31, 2010, largely unchanged from 89% at December 31, 

2009. The Firm posted $58.3 billion and $56.7 billion of collateral 

at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  
Credit derivatives
  
For risk management purposes, the Firm is primarily a purchaser of 

credit protection. As a purchaser of credit protection, the Firm has risk 

that the counterparty providing the credit protection will default. As a 

seller of credit protection, the Firm has risk that the underlying in-

strument referenced in the contract will be subject to a credit event.  
The Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first, in 
its capacity as a market-maker in the dealer/client business to 

meet the needs of customers; and second, in order to mitigate 

the Firm™s own credit risk associated with its overall derivative 

receivables and traditional commercial credit lending exposures 

(loans and unfunded commitments).  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
127
 Of the Firm™s $80.5 billion of total derivative rece
ivables MTM at 
December 31, 2010, $7.7 billion, or 10%, was associated with 
credit derivatives, before the benefit of liquid securities collateral. 
One type of credit derivatives the Firm enters into with counterparties 
are credit default swaps (ﬁCDSﬂ). The large majority of CDS are 

subject to collateral arrangements to protect the Firm from counter-

party credit risk. The use of collateral to settle against defaulting 

counterparties generally performed as designed in significantly miti-

gating the Firm™s exposure to these counterparties. In 2010, the 
frequency and size of defaults related to the underlying debt refer-

enced in credit derivatives was lower than 2009. For further discus-

sion of derivatives, see Note 6 on pages 191Œ199 of this Annual 

Report.  
The following table presents the Firm™s notional amounts of credit 
derivatives protection purchased and sold as of December 31, 2010 

and 2009, distinguishing between dealer/client activity and credit 

portfolio activity. 
  2010
  2009 
Dealer/client
  Credit portfolio
  Dealer/client
  Credit portfolio
  December 31,
  Prot
ection
  Protection
 Protection
  Protection
   Protection
  Protection
 Protection
  Protection
  (in millions)  purchased
(b)
  sold purchased
(c)
  sold Total  purchased
(b)
  sold purchased
(c)
  sold   Total
Credit default 
swaps 
 $ 2,661,657  $ 2,658,825  $ 23,523  $ 415 $ 5,344,420
  $ 2,957,277  $ 2,936,987  $ 48,831  $ 455 $ 5,943,550
Other credit 
derivatives
(a)
   34,250   93,776   Š   Š  128,026
   39,763   10,575   Š   Š  50,338
Total
  $ 2,695,907
  $ 2,752,601
  $ 23,523
  $ 415
 $ 5,472,446
  $ 2,997,040  $ 2,947,562  $ 48,831  $ 455 $ 5,993,888
(a) Primarily consists of total return swaps and credit default swap options. 
(b) Included $2,662 billion and $2,987 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, of notional exposure where the Firm has sold protection on the identical 
underlying reference instruments. 
(c) Included zero and $19.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, that represented the notional amount for structured portfolio protection; the Firm retains 
the first risk of loss on this portfolio. 
Dealer/client business 
Within the dealer/client business, the Firm actively manages credit 
derivatives by buying and selling credit protection, predominantly on 

corporate debt obligations, according to client demand. For further 

information, see Note 6 on pages 191Œ199 of this Annual Report. 
 At December 31, 2010, the total notional amount of pr
otection 
purchased and sold decreased by $496.1 billion from year-end 
2009. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of industry 
efforts to reduce offsetting trade activity. 
Credit portfolio activities  
Management of the Firm™s wholesale exposure is accomplished 
through a number of means including loan syndication and partici-

pations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives, use of master 

netting agreements, and collateral and other risk-reduction tech-

niques. The Firm also manages its wholesale credit exposure by 
purchasing protection through single-name and portfolio credit 
derivatives to manage the credit risk associated with loans, lend-

ing-related commitments and derivative receivables. Changes in 

credit risk on the credit derivatives are expected to offset changes 

in credit risk on the loans, lending-related commitments or deriva-

tive receivables. This activity does not reduce the reported level of 
assets on the balance sheet or the level of reported offŒbalance 
sheet commitments, although it does provide the Firm with credit 

risk protection. The Firm also diversifies its exposures by selling 

credit protection, which increases exposure to industries or clients 

where the Firm has little or no client-related exposure; however, 

this activity is not material to the Firm™s overall credit exposure.  
Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives 
 Notional amount
  of protection 
 purchased and sold 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2010
  2009
Credit derivatives used to manage
   Loans and lending-related commitments 
 $ 6,698
 $ 36,873
Derivative receivables 
  16,825
 11,958
Total protection purchased
(a)
   23,523
    48,831
Total protection sold 
  415
 455
Credit derivatives hedges notional
, net
  $23,108
 $ 48,376
(a) Included zero and $19.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respec-
tively, that represented the notional amount for structured portfolio protec-
tion; the Firm retains the first risk of loss on this portfolio. 
The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for credit portfolio 
management activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under 
U.S. GAAP; these derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains 

and losses recognized in principal transactions revenue. In contrast, 

the loans and lending-related commitments being risk-managed are 

accounted for on an accrual basis. This asymmetry in accounting 
treatment, between loans and lending-related commitments and 
the credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, 

causes earnings volatility that is not representative, in the Firm™s 

view, of the true changes in value of the Firm™s overall credit expo-

sure. The MTM value related to the Firm™s credit derivatives used 

for managing credit exposure, as well as the MTM value related to 
the CVA (which reflects the credit quality of derivatives counter-
party exposure) are included in the gains and losses realized on 

credit derivatives disclosed in the table below. These results can 

vary from period to period due to market conditions that affect 

specific positions in the portfolio. 

 128 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 Year ended December 31, 
    
(in millions) 
 2010 
 2009  2008
  Hedges of lending-related commitments
(a)
 $ (279)
 $ (3,258)  $ 2,216
  CVA and hedges of CVA
(a)
  (403)
  1,920  
(2,359)
) 
Net gains/(losses)
 $ (682)
 $ (1,338)  
$   (143)
) 
(a)  These hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. 
Lending-related commitments
 JPMorgan Chase uses lending-related financial instruments, such as 
commitments and guarantees, to meet the financing needs of its 
customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments 

represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterpar-

ties draw down on these commitments or the Firm fulfills its obliga-

tion under these guarantees, and should the counterparties 

subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of these con-

tracts.
 Wholesale lending-related commitments were $346.1 billion at 
December 31, 2010, compared with $347.2 billion at December 

31, 2009. The decrease reflected the January 1, 2010, adoption of 

accounting guidance related to VIEs. Excluding the effect of the 

accounting guidance, lending-related commitments would have 

increased by $16.6 billion. 
In the Firm™s view, the total contractual amount of these wholesale 
lending-related commitments is not representative of the Firm™s 

actual credit risk exposure or funding requirements. In determining 

the amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lend-

ing-related commitments, which is used as the basis for allocating 

credit risk capital to these commitments, the Firm has established a 

ﬁloan-equivalentﬂ amount for each commitment; this amount 

represents the portion of the unused commitment or other contin-

gent exposure that is expected, based on average portfolio histori-

cal experience, to become drawn upon in an event of a default by 

an obligor. The loan-equivalent amounts of the Firm™s lending-

related commitments were $189.9 billion and $179.8 billion as of 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Country exposure
 The Firm™s wholesale portfolio includes country risk
 exposures to 
both developed and emerging markets. The Firm seeks to diversify 
its country exposures, including its credit-related lending, trading 

and investment activities, whether cross-border or locally funded.  
Country exposure under the Firm™s internal risk management ap-

proach is reported based on the country where the assets of the 

obligor, counterparty or guarantor are located. Exposure amounts, 

including resale agreements, are adjusted for collateral and for 

credit enhancements (e.g., guarantees and letters of credit) pro-

vided by third parties; outstandings supported by a guarantor 

located outside the country or backed by collateral held outside the 

country are assigned to the country of the enhancement provider. 

In addition, the effect of credit derivative hedges and other short 

credit or equity trading positions are taken into consideration. Total 

exposure measures include activity with both government and 

private-sector entities in a country.  
The Firm also reports country exposure for regulatory purposes 
following FFIEC guidelines, which are different from the Firm™s 

internal risk management approach for measuring country expo-

sure. For additional information on the FFIEC exposures, see Cross-

border outstandings on page 314 of this Annual Report. 
Several European countries, including Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy 
and Ireland, have been subject to credit deterioration due to weak-

nesses in their economic and fiscal situations. The Firm is closely 

monitoring its exposures to these five countries. Aggregate net 

exposures to these five countries as measured under the Firm™s 

internal approach was less than $15.0 billion at December 31, 

2010, with no country representing a majority of the exposure. 

Sovereign exposure in all five countries represented less than half the 

aggregate net exposure. The Firm currently believes its exposure to 

these five countries is modest relative to the Firm™s overall risk expo-

sures and is manageable given the size and types of exposures to 

each of the countries and the diversification of the aggregate expo-

sure. The Firm continues to conduct business and support client 

activity in these countries and, therefore, the Firm™s aggregate net 

exposures may vary over time.
 In addition, the net exposures may be 
im
pacted by changes in market conditions, and the effects of interest 
rates and credit spreads on market valuations. 
As part of its ongoing country risk management process, the Firm 
monitors exposure to emerging market countries, and utilizes 

country stress tests to measure and manage the risk of extreme loss 

associated with a sovereign crisis. There is no common definition of 

emerging markets, but the Firm generally includes in its definition 

those countries whose sovereign debt ratings are equivalent to 

ﬁA+ﬂ or lower. The table below presents the Firm™s exposure to its 

top 10 emerging markets countries based on its internal measure-

ment approach. The selection of countries is based solely on the 

Firm™s largest total exposures by country and does not represent its 

view of any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
129
 Top 10 emerging markets country exposure 
At December 31, 2010
 Cross-border 
  Total 
    exposure
 (in billions) 
Lending
(a)
 Trading
(b)
 Other
(c)
  Total  Local
(d)
 Brazil  
 $ 3.0
  $ 1.8
  $ 1.1
  $ 5.9
  $ 3.9
  $ 9.8
South Korea 
3.0
 1.4
 1.5
 5.9
 3.1
 9.0
India 
4.2
 2.1
 1.4
 7.
7 1.1
 8.
8China  
3.6
 1.1
 1.0
 5.
7 1.2
 6.
9Hong Kong 
2.5
 1.5
 1.2
 5.2
 Š 5.2
Mexico 
2.1
 2.3
 0.
5 4.
9 Š 4.
9Malaysia 
0.6
 2.0
 0.3
 2.9
 0.4
 3.3
Taiwan 
0.3
 0.6
 0.4
 1.3
 1.9
 3.2
Thailand 
0.3
 1.1
 0.4
 1.8
 0.9
 2.7
Russia  
1.2
 1.0
 0.3
 2.5
 Š 2.5
 At December 31, 2009 
Cross-border 
    
 Total 
  exposure
 (in billions) 
Lending
(a)
 Trading
(b)
 Other
(c)
  Total  Local
(d)
 South Korea 
 $ 2.7  $ 1.7  $ 1.3  $ 5.7  $ 3.3 
 $ 9.0
India
 1.5
 2.7
 1.1
 5.3
 0.3
 5.6
Brazil 
 1.8
 (0.5)
 1.0
 2.3
 2.2
 4.5
China
 1.8
 0.4
 0.8
 3.0
  Š 3.0
Taiwan
 0.1
 0.8
 0.3
 1.2
 1.8
 3.0
Hong Kong
 1.1
 0.2
 1.3
 2.6
  Š 2.6
Mexico
 1.2
 0.8
 0.4
 2.4
  Š 2.4
Chile
 0.8
 0.6
 0.5
 1.9
  Š 1.9
Malaysia
 0.1
 1.3
 0.3
 1.7
 0.2
 1.9
South Africa
 0.4
 0.8
 0.5
 1.7
  Š 1.7
(a) Lending includes loans and accrued interest receivable, interest-earning deposits with banks, acceptances, other monetary assets, issued letters of credit net of participations, and undrawn 
commitments to extend credit. 
(b) Trading includes: (1) issuer exposure on cross-border debt and equity instruments, held both in trading and investment accounts and adjusted for the impact of issuer hedges, including 
credit derivatives; and (2) counterparty exposure on derivative and foreign exchange contracts as well as securities financing trades (resale agreements and securities borrowed). 
(c) Other represents mainly local exposure funded cross-border, including capital investments in local entities.
 (d) Local exposure is defined as exposure to a country denominated in local currency and booked locally. Any exposure not meeting these criteria is defined as cross-border exposure. 
CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO  
JPMorgan Chase™s consumer portfolio consists primarily of resi-
dential mortgages, home equity loans, credit cards, auto loans, 

student loans and business banking loans
. 
The Firm™s primary 
focus is on serving the prime consumer credit market. For further 

information on the consumer loans, see Note 14 on pages 220Œ
238 of this Annual Report. 
A substantial portion of the consumer loans acquired in the Wash-
ington Mutual transaction were identified as purchased credit-

impaired
 based on an analysis of high-risk characteristics, including 
product type, LTV ratios, FICO scores and delinquency status. These 

PCI loans are accounted for on a pool basis, and the pools are 
considered to be performing. See pages 132Œ134 of this Annual 
Report for further information on the purchased credit-impaired 

loans.  
The credit performance of the consumer portfolio across the 
entire product spectrum has stabilized but high unemployment 

and weak overall economic conditions continue to put pressure 
on the number of loans charged off, and weak housing prices 
continue to negatively affect the severity of loss recognized on 

real estate loans that default. Delinquencies and nonaccrual loans 

remain elevated but have improved. The delinquency trend exhib-

ited improvement in the first half of 2010; early-stage delinquen-

cies (30Œ89 days delinquent) then flattened across most RFS 
products early in the second half of the year, before once again 
showing improvement at the end of the year. Late-stage residen-

tial real estate delinquencies (150+ days delinquent) remain 
elevated. The elevated level of these credit quality metrics is due, 

in part, to loss-mitigation activities currently being undertaken 

and elongated foreclosure processing timelines. Losses related to 

these loans continued to be recognized in accordance with the 

Firm™s standard charge-off practices, but some delinquent loans 
that would have otherwise been foreclosed upon remain in the 
mortgage and home equity loan portfolios.  
Since mid-2007, the Firm has taken actions to reduce risk expo-
sure to consumer loans by tightening both underwriting and loan 

qualification standards, as well as eliminating certain products 

and loan origination channels for residential real estate lending. 
The tightening of underwriting criteria for auto loans has resulted 
in the reduction of both extended-term and high LTV financing. In 

addition, new originations of private student loans are limited to 

school-certified loans, the majority of which include a qualified 

co-borrower.  
As a further action to reduce risk associated with lending-related 
commitments, the Firm has reduced or canceled certain lines of 
credit as permitted by law. For example, the Firm may reduce or 

close home equity lines of credit when there are significant de-

creases in the value of the underlying property or when there has 

been a demonstrable decline in the creditworthiness of the bor-

rower. Also, the Firm typically closes credit card lines when the 
borrower is 60 days or more past due. Finally, certain inactive 
credit card lines have been closed, and a number of active credit 

card lines have been reduced.  

 130 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The following table presents managed consumer creditŒrelated information (including RFS, CS and residential real estate loans reported in the 
Corporate/Private Equity segment) for the dates indicated. For further information about the Firm™s nonaccrual and charge-off accounting 
policies, see Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual Report.  
Consumer
      As of or for the year ended  
December 31, 
  Credit exposure 
   Nonaccrual
   loans
(k)(l)
    Net charge-offs 
  Net charge
-off
          rate
(m)(n)
  (in millions, except ratios)
  2010
  2009
 2010
2009
2010
 2009
2010
2009
Consumer, excluding credit card 
 Loans, excluding PCI loans and loans 
held-for-sale
    
     Home equity Œ senior lien
(a)
 $     24,376
$      27,376
$      479
    $    477
 $      262
 $      234
  1.00%
   0.80% 
     Home equity Œ junior lien
(b)
 64,009
74,049
784
1,188
3,182
 4,448
4.63
 5.62 
     Prime mortgage, including option ARMs
(c)
 74,539
75,428
4,320
4,667
1,627
 1,957
2.15
 2.51 
     Subprime mortgage
(c)
  
11,287
12,526
2,210
3,248
1,374
 1,648
10.82
 11.86 
     Auto
(c)(d)
 48,367
46,031
141
177
298
 627
0.63
 1.44 
     Business banking  
16,812
16,974
832
826
707
 842
4.23
 4.73 
     Student and other
(c)
 15,311
14,726
67
74
459
 443
2.85
 2.90 
Total loans, excluding 
PCI 
loans and loans 
held-for-sale
 254,701
267,110
8,833
 10,657
7,909
 10,199
3.00
 3.68 
Loans Œ PCI
(e)
    
     Home equity 
24,459
26,520
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
 NA 
     Prime mortgage  
17,322
19,693
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
 NA 
     Subprime mortgage  
5,398
5,993
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
 NA 
     Option ARMs  
25,584
29,039
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
 NA 
Total loans 
Œ PCI
 72,763
81,245
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
 NA 
Total loans 
Œ retained
 327,464
348,355
8,833
10,657
7,909
 10,199
2.32
 2.82 
Loans held-for-sale
(f)
 154
2,142ŠŠŠ
 ŠŠ Š 
Total loans 
Œ reported
 327,618
350,497
8,833
10,657
7,909
 10,199
2.32
 2.82 
Lending
-related co
mmitments
    
     Home equity Œ senior lien
(a)(
g) 16,060
19,246
   
     Home equity Œ junior lien
(b)(
g) 28,681
37,231
   
     Prime mortgage  
1,266
1,654
   
     Subprime mortgage  
ŠŠ
   
     Auto  
5,246
5,467
   
     Business banking  
9,702
9,040
   
     Student and other  
579
2,189
   
Total len
ding
-related commitments
 61,534
74,827
   
Total consumer
 exposure
, excluding 
 credit card
        389,152
   425,324
   
Credit C
ard 
    
Loans retained
(c)(
h)(
i)        135,524
     78,786
         2
         3
   14,037
    9,634
9.73 
   11.07 
Loans held-for-sale 
2,152
ŠŠŠŠ
 ŠŠ Š 
Total loans 
Œ reported
      
137,676
     78,786
         
2 
         3
 14,037
    9,634
     
9.73
 11.07 
Securitized
(c)(
j) NA
84,626
NA
ŠNA
 6,443
NA
 7.55 
Total loans Œ managed
(c)
      137,676
   163,412
           2
           3
 14,037
  16,077
  9.73
   9.33 
Lending-related commitments
(g) 547,227
569,113
   Total credit card
 exposure
        
684,903
   732,525
   Total consumer credit portfolio 
Œ reported
  
    
1,074,055
   1,073,223
  
8,835
10,660
   
21,946
  19,833
4.53
 4.41
 Total consumer credit portfolio Œ managed
(c)
 $ 1,074,055
 $  1,157,849
$  8,835
$10,660
$   21,946
 $ 26,276
4.53%
 4.91% 
(a) Represents loans where JPMorgan Chase holds the first security interest on the property. 
(b) Represents loans where JPMorgan Chase holds a security interest that is subordinate in rank to other liens.  

(c) Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon the adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit 
card securitization trusts and certain other consumer loan securitization entities, primarily mortgage-related. As a result, related receivables are now recorded as loans 

on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. As a result of the consolidation of the securitization trusts, reported and managed basis are equivalent for periods beginning after 

January 1, 2010. For further discussion, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm™s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 64Œ66 of this Form 10-K. 
(d) Excluded operating leaseŒrelated assets of $3.7 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(e) Charge-offs are not recorded on PCI loans until actual losses exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase accounting adjustments at the time of acquisition. 
To date, no charge-offs have been recorded for these loans. 
(f) At December 31, 2010 and 2009, loans held-for-sale included prime mortgages of $154 million and $450 million, respectively, and student loans of zero and $1.7 
billion, respectively. 
(g) The credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total available lines of credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, and does not 
anticipate, that all available lines of credit would be used at the same time. For credit card commitments and home equity commitments (if certain conditions are met), 
the Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by providing the borrower prior notice or, in some cases, without notice as permitted by law. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
131
 (h) Included $1.0 billion of loans at December 31, 2009, held by the WMMT, which were consolidated onto the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value in 2009. 
Such loans had been fully repaid or charged off as of December 31, 2010. See Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 this Annual Report. 
(i) Included billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts. 
(j) Loans securitized are defined as loans that were sold to nonconsolidated securitization trusts and not included in reported loans. For a further discussion of credit card 
securitizations, see CS on pages 79Œ81 of this Annual Report. 
(k) At December 31, 2010 and 2009, nonaccrual loans excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $10.5 billion and $9.0 billion, respectively, 
that are 90 days past due and accruing at the guaranteed reimbursement rate; and (2) student loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by 

U.S. government agencies under the FFELP, of $625 million and $542 million, respectively. These amounts are excluded as reimbursement of insured amounts is pro-
ceeding normally. In addition, the Firm™s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance. Un-
der guidance issued by the FFIEC, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from 

receiving notification about a specified event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), whichever is earlier. 
(l) Excludes PCI loans that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is accounted for as a 
single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of the pools, or that of individual loans within the 

pools, is not meaningful. Because the Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, they are all considered to be performing.  
(m) Average consumer loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were $1.5 billion and $2.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These 
amounts were excluded when calculating net charge-off rates. 
(n) As further discussed below, net charge-off rates for 2010 reflect the impact of an aggregate $632 million adjustment related to the Firm™s estimate of the net realizable 
value of the collateral underlying the loans at the charge-off date. Absent this adjustment, net charge-off rates would have been 0.92%, 4.57%, 1.73% and 8.87% for 
home equity Œ senior lien; home equity Œ junior lien; prime mortgage (including option ARMs); and subprime mortgage, respectively. Total consumer, excluding credit 
card and PCI loans, and total consumer, excluding credit card net charge-off rates would have been 2.76% and 2.14%, respectively, excluding this adjustment.  
Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance 
related to VIEs. Upon adoption of this guidance, the Firm consoli-
dated its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts and certain 

other consumer loan securitization entities. The following table 

summarizes the impact on consumer loans at adoption. 
Reported loans 
January 1, 2010 (in millions)
  Consumer, excluding credit card
  Prime mortgage
, including option ARMs
 $    1,
858
 Subprime mortgage 
 1,758
 Auto 
 218
 Student 
 1,008
 Total 
consumer, excluding credit card
 4,842
 Credit card
 84,663
 Total increase in consumer loans 
 $  89,505
 Consumer, excluding credit card 
Portfolio analysis  
Th
e following discussion relates to the specific loan and lending-
related categories. Purchased credit-impaired loans are excluded 

from individual loan product discussions and are addressed sepa-

rately below. For further information about the Firm™s consumer 
portfolio, related delinquency information and other credit quality 
indicators, see Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual Report. 
It is the Firm™s policy to charge down residential real estate loans to 
net realizable value at no later than 180 days past due. During the 

fourth quarter of 2010, the Firm recorded an aggregate adjustment 

of $632 million to increase net charge-offs related to the estimated 

net realizable value of the collateral underlying delinquent residen-

tial home loans. Because these losses were previously recognized in 
the provision and allowance for loan losses, this adjustment had no 
impact on the Firm™s net income.  The impact of this aggregate 

adjustment on reported net charge-off rates is provided in footnote 
(n) above. 
Home equity:
 Home equity loans at December 31, 2010, were 
$88.4 billion, compared with $101.4 billion at December 31, 2009. 
The decrease in this portfolio primarily reflected loan paydowns and 

charge-offs. Junior lien net charge-offs declined from the prior year 
but remained high. Senior lien nonaccrual loans remained relatively 
flat, while junior lien nonaccrual loans decreased from prior year-

end as a result of improvement in early-stage delinquencies. Im-
provements in delinquencies and charge-offs slowed during the 

second half of the year and stabilized at these elevated levels. In 
addition to delinquent accounts, the Firm monitors current junior 
lien loans where the borrower has a first mortgage loan which is 

either delinquent or has been modified, as such junior lien loans are 

considered to be at higher risk of delinquency. The portfolio con-

tained an estimated $4 billion of such junior lien loans. The risk 

associated with these junior lien loans was considered in establish-

ing the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2010.  
Mortgage:
 Mortgage loans at December 31, 2010, including 
prime and subprime mortgages and mortgage loans held-for-sale, 
were $86.0 billion, compared with $88.4 billion at December 31, 

2009. The decrease was primarily due to portfolio runoff, partially 

offset by the addition of loans to the balance sheet as a result of 

the adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs. Net 
charge-offs decreased from the prior year but remained elevated.  
Prime mortgages at December 31, 2010, including option ARMs, 
were $74.7 billion, compared with $75.9 billion at December 31, 
2009. The decrease in loans was due to paydowns and charge-offs 
on delinquent loans, partially offset by the addition of loans as a 

result of the adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs. 

Early-stage delinquencies showed improvement during the year but 

remained at elevated levels. Late-stage delinquencies increased 

during the first half of the year, then trended lower for several 
months before flattening toward the end of 2010. Nonaccrual loans 
showed improvement, but also remained elevated as a result of 

ongoing modification activity and foreclosure processing delays. 
Charge-offs declined year over year but remained high. 
Option ARM loans, which are included in the prime mortgage 
portfolio, were $8.1 billion at December 31, 2010, and represented 

11% of the prime mortgage portfolio. These are primarily loans 

with low LTV ratios and high borrower FICOs. Accordingly, the Firm 
expects substantially lower losses on this portfolio when compared 
with the PCI option ARM pool. As of December 31, 2010,
 ap-
pr
oximately 8% of the option ARM borrowers were delinquent, 4% 
were making interest-only or negatively amortizing payments, and 

88% were making amortizing payments. Substantially all borrowers 

within the portfolio are subject to risk of payment shock due to 
future payment recast as a limited number of these loans have been 
modified. The cumulative amount of unpaid interest added to the 

 132 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
unpaid principal balance due to negative amortization of option 
ARMs was $24 million and $78 million at December 31, 2010 and 
2009, respectively. The Firm estimates the following balances of 

option ARM loans will experience a recast that results in a payment 
increase: $72 million in 2011, $241 million in 2012 and $784 
million in 2013. The Firm did not originate option ARMs and new 

originations of option ARMs were discontinued by Washington 

Mutual prior to the date of JPMorgan Chase™s acquisition of its 
banking operations.  
Subprime mortgages at December 31, 2010 were $11.3 billion, 
compared with $12.5 billion at December 31, 2009. The decrease 

was due to paydowns and charge-offs on delinquent loans, partially 
offset by the addition of loans as a result of the adoption of the 
accounting guidance related to VIEs. Late-stage delinquencies 

remained elevated but continued to improve, albeit at a slower rate 

during the second half of the year, while early-stage delinquencies 

stabilized at an elevated level during this period. Nonaccrual loans 

improved largely as a result of the improvement in late-stage 

delinquencies. Charge-offs reflected modest improvement. 
Auto:
 Auto loans at December 31, 2010, were $48.4 billion, 
compared with $46.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Delinquent 
and nonaccrual loans have decreased. In addition, net charge-offs 

have declined 52% from the prior year. Provision expense de-

creased due to favorable loss severity as a result of a strong used-

car market nationwide and reduced loss frequency due to the 

tightening of underwriting criteria in earlier periods. The auto loan 

portfolio reflected a high concentration of prime quality credits. 
Business banking: 
Business banking loans at December 31, 2010, 
were $16.8 billion, compared with $17.0 billion at December 31, 2009. 
The decrease was primarily a result of run-off of the Washington Mutual 

portfolio and charge-offs on delinquent loans. These loans primarily 

include loans which are highly collateralized, often with personal loan 

guarantees. Nonaccrual loans continued to remain elevated. After 

having increased during the first half of 2010, nonaccrual loans as of 

December 31, 2010, declined to year-end 2009 levels. 
 Student and other: 
Student and other loans at December 31, 
2010, including loans held-for-sale, were $15.3 billion, compared 

with $16.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Other loans primarily 

include other secured and unsecured consumer loans. Delinquencies 

reflected some stabilization in the second half of 2010, but remained 

elevated. Charge-offs during 2010 remained relatively flat with 2009 
levels reflecting the impact of elevated unemployment levels. 
Purchased credit-impaired loans: 
PCI loans at December 31, 
2010, were $72.8 billion compared with $81.2 billion at December 
31, 2009. This portfolio represents loans acquired in the Washing-

ton Mutual transaction that were recorded at fair value at the time 
of acquisition. That fair value included an estimate of credit losses 
expected to be realized over the remaining lives of the loans, and 

therefore no allowance for loan losses was recorded for these loans 
as of the acquisition date.  
The Firm regularly updates the amount of principal and interest 
cash flows expected to be collected for these loans. Probable 

decreases in expected loan principal cash flows would trigger the 

recognition of impairment through the provision for loan losses. 
Probable and significant increases in expected cash flows (e.g., 
decreased principal credit losses, the net benefit of modifications) 

would first reverse any previously recorded allowance for loan 

losses, with any remaining increase in the expected cash flows 

recognized prospectively in interest income over the remaining 
estimated lives of the underlying loans. 
During 2010, management concluded as part of the Firm™s regular 
assessment of the PCI pools that it was probable that higher expected 
principal credit losses would result in a decrease in expected cash 
flows. Accordingly, the Firm recognized an aggregate $3.4 billion 

impairment related to the home equity, prime mortgage, option ARM 

and subprime mortgage PCI portfolios. As a result of this impairment, 

the Firm™s allowance for loan losses for the home equity, prime 

mortgage, option ARM and subprime mortgage PCI portfolios was 
$1.6 billion, $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion and $98 million, respectively, at 
December 31, 2010, compared with an allowance for loan losses of 

$1.1 billion and $491 million for the prime mortgage and option 
ARM PCI portfolios, respectively, at December 31, 2009. 
Approximately 39% of the option ARM borrowers were delinquent, 
5% were making interest-only or negatively amortizing payments, 

and 56% were making amortizing payments.  Approximately 50% 

of current borrowers are subject to risk of payment shock due to 
future payment recast; substantially all of the remaining loans have 
been modified to a fixed rate fully amortizing loan. The cumulative 

amount of unpaid interest added to the unpaid principal balance of 

the option ARM PCI pool was $1.4 billion and $1.9 billion at De-

cember 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Firm estimates the 

following balances of option ARM PCI loans will experience a recast 
that results in a payment increase: $1.2 billion in 2011, $2.7 billion 
in 2012 and $508 million in 2013. 
The following table provides a summary of lifetime loss estimates included in both the nonaccretable difference and the allowance for loan 
losses. Principal charge-offs will not be recorded on these pools until the nonaccretable difference has been fully depleted. 
   Lifetime loss estimates
(a)
    LTD liquidation losses
(b)
  December 31, (in millions) 
 2010 
 2009 
 2010 
2009
  Option ARMs 
 $ 11,588 
 $ 10,650 
 $    4,860 
  $ 1,744
  Home equity 
  14,698 
  13,138 
  8,810 
  6,060
 Prime mortgage  
  4,870 
  4,240 
  1,495 
  794
 Subprime mortgage  
  3,732 
  3,842 
  1,250 
  796
 Total
  $ 34,888 
 $  31,870 
 $ 16,415 
  $ 9,394
  (a)
 Includes the original nonaccretable difference established in purchase accounting of $30.5 billion for principal losses only. The remaining nonaccretable difference for 
principal losses only was $14.1 billion and $21.1 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. All probable increases in principal losses and foregone interest 
subsequent to the purchase date are reflected in the allowance for loan losses.  
(b)
 Life-to-date (ﬁLTDﬂ) liquidation losses represent realization of loss upon loan resolution. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
133
  Geographic composition and current estimated LTVs of residential real estate loans 
CaliforniaTexasTexasNew York41.0%24.2%5.4%Florida16.4%6.7%6.3%Illinois
IllinoisAll other(a) Represents residential real estate loans retained, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and loans insured by U.S. government agencies.CaliforniaTexas
TexasNew York41.4%24.6%5.4%Florida15.8%6.9%5.9%Illinois
IllinoisAll otherTop 5 States - Residential Real Estate(at December 31, 2009)(a)Top 5 States - Residential Real Estate(at December 31, 2010)(a) The consumer credit portfolio is geographically diver
se. The great-
est concentration of residential real estate loans is in California. 
Excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and 

PCI loans, California-based loans retained represented 24% of total 

residential real estate loans retained at December 31, 2010, com-

pared with 25% at December 31, 2009. Of the total residential real 

estate loan portfolio retained, excluding mortgage loans insured by 

U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, $86.4 billion, or 54%, 

were concentrated in California, New York, Arizona, Florida and 

Michigan at December 31, 2010, compared with $95.9 billion, or 

54%, at December 31, 2009.  
The current estimated average LTV ratio for residential real estate 
loans retained, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government 

agencies and PCI loans, was 83% at December 31, 2010, compared 

with 81% at December 31, 2009. Excluding mortgage loans insured 
by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, 24% of the retained 

portfolio had a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 

10% of the retained portfolio had a current estimated LTV ratio 

greater than 125% at December 31, 2010, compared with 22% with 

a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 9% with a 

current estimated LTV ratio greater than 125%, at December 31, 

2009. The decline in home prices had a significant impact on the 

collateral value underlying the Firm™s residential real estate loan 

portfolio. In general, the delinquency rate for loans with high LTV 

ratios is greater than the delinquency rate for loans in which the 

borrower has equity in the collateral. While a large portion of the 

loans with current estimated LTV ratios greater than 100% continue 

to pay and are current, the continued willingness and ability of these 

borrowers to pay remains uncertain.
The following table presents the current estimated LTV ratio, as well as the ratio of the carrying value of the underlying loans to the current 

estimated collateral value, for PCI loans. Because such loans were initially measured at fair value, the ratio of the carrying value to the current 

estimated collateral value will be lower than the current estimated LTV ratio, which is based on the unpaid principal balance. The estimated 

collateral values used to calculate these ratios do not represent actual appraised loan-level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are 

necessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates. 
LTV ratios and ratios of carrying values to current estimated collateral values Œ PCI loans
 December 31, 2010 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
Unpaid principal  
balance
(a)
 Current estimated  
LTV ratio
(b)
 Carrying  
   value
(d)
 Ratio of carrying value
  to current esti
mated 
 collateral value
(e)
  Home equity 
 $ 28,312 
 117%
(c)
  $ 24,459 
 95
 % Prime mortgage 
  18,928 
 109   17,322 
 90
 Subprime mortgage  
  8,042 
 113   5,398 
 74
 Option ARMs  
  30,791 
 111   25,584 
 87
  December 31, 2009 
(in millions, except ratios) 
Unpaid principal  
balance
(a)
 Current estimated  
LTV ratio
(b)
 Carrying  
   value
(d)
 Ratio of carrying value
  to current esti
mated 
 collateral value
(e)
  Home equity 
 $ 32,958 
 113%
(c)
  $ 26,520 
91
 % Prime mortgage 
  21,972 
 103   19,693 
87
 Subprime mortgage  
  9,021 
 107   5,993 
71
 Option ARMs  
  37,379 
 111   29,039 
85
 (a)
 Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 

 134 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
(b)
 Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated based on home 
valuation models utilizing nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current period presen-
tation. 
(c)
 Represents current estimated combined LTV, which considers all available lien positions related to the property. All other products are presented without consideration 
of subordinate liens on the property.  
(d)
 Carrying value includes the effect of fair value adjustments that were applied to the consumer PCI portfolio at the date of acquisition. 
(e)
 At December 31, 2010, and 2009, the ratios of carrying value to current estimated collateral value are net of the allowance for loan losses of $1.6 billion and zero for 
home equity, respectively, $1.8 billion and $1.1 billion for prime mortgage, respectively, $98 million and zero for subprime mortgage, respectively, and $1.5 billion and 
$491 million for option ARMs, respectively. 
PCI loans in the states of California and Florida represented 53% and 
10%, respectively, of total PCI loans at December 31, 2010, com-
pared with 54% and 11%, respectively, at December 31, 2009. The 

current estimated average LTV ratios were 118% and 135% for 

California and Florida loans, respectively, at December 31, 2010, 

compared with 114% and 131%, respectively, at December 31, 

2009. Continued pressure on housing prices in California and Florida 

have contributed negatively to both the current estimated average 

LTV ratio and the ratio of carrying value to current collateral value for 

loans in the PCI portfolio. For the PCI portfolio, 63% had a current 

estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 31% of the PCI portfolio 

had a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 125% at December 

31, 2010; this compared with 59% of the PCI portfolio with a current 

estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 28% with a current 

estimated LTV ratio greater than 125%, at December 31, 2009. 
The carrying value of PCI loans is below the current estimated collat-
eral value of the loans and, accordingly, the ultimate performance of 

this portfolio is highly dependent on borrowers™ behavior and ongoing 

ability and willingness to continue to make payments on homes with 

negative equity, as well as on the cost of alternative housing. For 

further information on the geographic composition and current 

estimated LTVs of residential real estate Œ non PCI and PCI loans, see 

Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual Report. 
Loan modification activities 
For additional information about consumer loan modification 

activities, including consumer loan modifications accounted for as 

troubled debt restructurings, see Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of this 

Annual Report. 
Residential real estate loans: 
For both the Firm™s on-balance 
sheet loans and loans serviced for others, more than 1,038,000 
mortgage modifications have been offered to borrowers and ap-

proximately 318,000 have been approved since the beginning of 

2009. Of these, approximately 285,000 have achieved permanent 

modification as of December 31, 2010. Of the remaining 720,000 

modifications, 34% are in a trial period or still being reviewed for a 

modification, while 66% have dropped out of the modification 

program or otherwise were not eligible for final modification. 
The Firm is participating in the U.S. Treasury™s MHA programs and is 
continuing to expand its other loss-mitigation efforts for financially 

distressed borrowers who do not qualify for the U.S. Treasury™s pro-

grams. The MHA programs include the Home Affordable Modification 

Program (ﬁHAMPﬂ) and the Second Lien Modification Program 

(ﬁ2MPﬂ); these programs mandate standard modification terms 

across the industry and provide incentives to borrowers, servicers and 

investors who participate. The Firm completed its first permanent 

modifications under HAMP in September 2009. Under 2MP, which 
the Firm implemented in May 2010, homeowners are offered a way 

to modify their second mortgage to make it more affordable when 

their first mortgage has been modified under HAMP.  
The Firm™s other loss-mitigation programs for troubled borrowers 
who do not qualify for HAMP include the traditional modification 

programs offered by the GSE™s and Ginnie Mae, as well as the 

Firm™s proprietary modification programs, which include similar 

concessions to those offered under HAMP but with expanded 

eligibility criteria. In addition, the Firm has offered modification 

programs targeted specifically to borrowers with higher-risk mort-

gage products.  
MHA, as well as the Firm™s other loss-mitigation programs, gener-
ally provide various concessions to financially troubled borrowers, 

including, but not limited to, interest rate reductions, term or 

payment extensions, and deferral of principal payments that would 

have otherwise been required under the terms of the original 

agreement. For the 54,500 onŒbalance sheet loans modified under 

HAMP and the Firm™s other loss-mitigation programs since July 1, 

2009, 55% of permanent loan modifications have included interest 

rate reductions, 49% have included term or payment extensions, 

9% have included principal deferment and 22% have included 

principal forgiveness. Principal forgiveness has been limited to a 

specific modification program for option ARMs. The sum of the 

percentages of the types of loan modifications exceeds 100% 

because, in some cases, the modification of an individual loan 

includes more than one type of concession. 
Generally, borrowers must make at least three payments under the 
revised contractual terms during a trial modification and be suc-
cessfully re-underwritten with income verification before a mort-

gage or home equity loan can be permanently modified. When the 

Firm modifies home equity lines of credit, future lending commit-

ments related to the modified loans are canceled as part of the 

terms of the modification. 
The ultimate success of these modification programs and their 
impact on reducing credit losses remains uncertain given the short 

period of time since modification. The primary indicator used by 

management to monitor the success of these programs is the rate 

at which the modified loans redefault. Modification redefault rates 

are affected by a number of factors, including the type of loan 

modified, the borrower™s overall ability and willingness to repay the 

modified loan and other macroeconomic factors. Reduction in 

payment size for a borrower has shown to be the most significant 

driver in improving redefault rates. Modifications completed after 

July 1, 2009, whether under HAMP or under the Firm™s other  

modification programs, differ from modifications completed under 

prior programs in that they are generally fully underwritten after a 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
135
 successful trial payment period of at least three mo
nths. Approxi-
mately 87% of onŒbalance sheet modifications completed since 
July 1, 2009, were completed in 2010, with approximately 10% 

completed as recently as the fourth quarter of 2010. Performance 

metrics to date for modifications seasoned more than six months 
show weighted average redefault rates of 25% and 28% for HAMP 

and the Firm™s other modification programs, respectively. While 

these rates compare favorably to equivalent metrics for modifica-

tions completed under prior programs, ultimate redefault rates will 

remain uncertain until modified loans have seasoned. 
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, relating to restructured onŒbalance sheet residential real estate 

loans for which concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. Modifications of PCI loans continue to be ac-

counted for and reported as PCI loans, and the impact of the modification is incorporated into the Firm™s quarterly assessment of estimated 
future cash flows. Modifications of consumer loans other than PCI loans are generally accounted for and reported as troubled debt restructur-
ings (ﬁTDRsﬂ). 
Restructured residential real estate loans 
 2010 
 2009 
 December 31, 
(in millions) 
OnŒbalanc
e 
sheet loans
   
 Nonaccrual 
onŒ
balance 
     sheet loans
(d)
 OnŒ
balance 
sheet loans
   
 Nonaccrual 
onŒ
balance 
     sheet loans
(d)
 Restructured residential real estate loans Œ excluding PCI loans
(a)(b)
  
   
  
Home equity Œ senior lien
 $      
 226
$       
38
$     168$   30
  Home equity Œ junior lien
 283
63
222
43
  Prime mortgage, including option ARMs  
2,084
534
642
249
  Subprime mortgage  
2,751
632
1,998
598
  Total restructured residential real estate loans 
Œ excluding PCI 
loan
s $    
5,344
$  1,267
$  3,030$ 920
  Restructured PCI loans
(c)
   Home equity 
$       
492
NA
$     453
NA
  Prime mortgage  
3,018
NA
1,526
NA
  Subprime mortgage  
3,329
NA
1,954
NA
  Option ARMs  
9,396
NA
2,972
NA
  Total restructured
 PCI loans
 $  
16,235
NA
$  6,905
NA
  (a)
 Amounts represent the carrying value of restructured residential real estate loans. 
(b)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, $3.0 billion and $296 million, respectively, of loans modified subsequent to repurchase from Ginnie Mae were excluded from loans 
accounted for as TDRs. When such loans perform subsequent to modification they are generally sold back into Ginnie Mae loan pools. Modified loans that do not re-

perform become subject to foreclosure. Substantially all amounts due under the terms of these loans continue to be insured and, where applicable, reimbursement of 
insured amounts is proceeding normally. 
(c)
 Amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of restructured PCI loans. 
(d)
 Nonaccrual loans modified in a TDR may be returned to accrual status when repayment is reasonably assured and the borrower has made a minimum of six payments 
under the new terms. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, nonaccrual loans of $580 million and $256 million, respectively, are TDRs for which the borrowers have not 
yet made six payments under their modified terms. 
Foreclosure prevention:
 Foreclosure is a last resort and the Firm 
makes significant efforts to help borrowers stay in their homes. 
Since the first quarter of 2009, the Firm has prevented two foreclo-

sures (through loan modification, short sales, and other foreclosure 

prevention means) for every foreclosure completed. 
The Firm has a well-defined foreclosure prevention process when a 
borrower fails to pay on his or her loan. Customer contacts are 

attempted multiple times in various ways to pursue options other 

than foreclosure (including through loan modification, short sales, 

and other foreclosure prevention means). In addition, if the Firm is 

unable to contact a customer, various reviews are completed of 

borrower™s facts and circumstances before a foreclosure sale is 

completed. By the time of a foreclosure sale, borrowers have not 

made a payment on average for approximately 14 months.  
Foreclosure process issues 
The foreclosure process is governed by laws and regulations estab-

lished on a state-by-state basis. In some states, the foreclosure proc-

ess involves a judicial process requiring filing documents with a court. 

In other states, the process is mostly non-judicial, involving various 

processes, some of which require filing documents with governmental 

agencies. During the third quarter of 2010, the Firm became aware 

that certain documents executed by Firm personnel in connection 

with the foreclosure process may not have complied with all applica-

ble procedural requirements. For example, in certain instances, the 

underlying loan file review and verification of information for inclusion 

in an affidavit was performed by Firm personnel other than the affi-

ant, or the affidavit may not have been properly notarized. The Firm 

instructed its outside foreclosure counsel to temporarily suspend 

foreclosures, foreclosure sales and evictions in 43 states so that it 

could review its processes. These matters are the subject of investiga-

tion by federal and state officials. For further discussion, see ﬁMort-

gage Foreclosure Investigations and Litigationﬂ in Note 32 on pages 

282Œ289 of this Annual Report. 

 136 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
As a result of these foreclosure process issues, the Firm has under-
taken remedial actions to ensure that it satisfies all procedural 
requirements relating to mortgage foreclosures. These actions 

include:  
· A complete review of the foreclosure document execution poli-
cies and procedures; 
· The creation of model affidavits that will comply with all local 

law requirements and be used in every case;  
· Implementation of enhanced procedures designed to ensure that 

employees who execute affidavits personally verify their contents 

and that the affidavits are executed only in the physical presence 

of a licensed notary;  
· Extensive training for all personnel who will have responsibility 

for document execution going forward and certification of those 

personnel by outside counsel;  
· Implementation of a rigorous quality control double-check re-

view of affidavits completed by the Firm™s employees; and 
· Review and verification of our revised procedures by outside 

experts.  
As of January 2011, the Firm has resumed initiation of new foreclo-

sure proceedings in nearly all states in which it had previously 

suspended such proceedings. 
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2010 
and 2009, about the Firm™s nonperforming consumer assets, ex-

cluding credit card. 
Nonperforming assets
(a)
 December 31, 
   (in millions) 
 2010 
2009
  Nonaccrual loans
(b)    Home equity Œ senior lien 
$ 479
 $      477
 Home equity Œ junior lien 
 784
 1,188
 Prime mortgage, including option ARMs 
 4,320
 4,667
 Subprime mortgage 
 2,210
 3,248
 Auto  
 141
 177
 Business banking 
 832
  826
 Student and other 
 67
 74
 Total nonaccrual loans 
 8,833 
10,657
 Assets acquired in loan satisfactions 
  Real estate owned 
 1,294
 1,156
 Other 
 67
 99
 Total assets acquired in loan satisfactions
  1,361
 1,255
 Total nonperforming assets
 $10,194
 $ 11,912
 (a)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) mortgage 
loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $10.5 billion and $9.0 billion, re-
spectively, that are 90 days past due and accruing at the guaranteed reimburse-
ment rate; (2) real estate owned insured by U.S. government agencies of $1.9 

billion and $579 million, respectively; and (3) student loans that are 90 days past 
due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the 
FFELP, of $625 million and $542 million, respectively. These amounts are ex-

cluded as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally. 
(b)
 Excludes PCI loans that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transac-

tion, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is accounted for as 

a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation 
of cash flows, the past-due status of the pools, or that of individual loans within 
the pools, is not meaningful. Because the Firm is recognizing interest income on 

each pool of loans, they are all considered to be performing. 
Nonaccrual loans:
 Total consumer nonaccrual loans, excluding 
credit card, were $8.8 billion, compared with $10.7 billion at 
December 31, 2009. Nonaccrual loans have stabilized, but re-

mained at elevated levels. The increase in loan modification activi-

ties is expected to continue to result in elevated levels of 

nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolios as a result 

of both redefault of modified loans as well as the Firm™s policy that 

modified loans remain in nonaccrual status until repayment is 

reasonably assured and the borrower has made a minimum of six 

payments under the new terms. Nonaccrual loans in the residential 

real estate portfolio totaled $7.8 billion at December 31, 2010, of 

which 71% were greater than 150 days past due; this compared 

with nonaccrual residential real estate loans of $9.6 billion at 

December 31, 2009, of which 64% were greater than 150 days 

past due. Modified residential real estate loans of $1.3 billion and 

$920 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were 

classified as nonaccrual loans. Of these modified residential real 

estate loans, $580 million and $256 million had yet to make six 

payments under their modified terms at December 31, 2010 and 

2009, respectively, with the remaining nonaccrual modified loans 

having redefaulted. In the aggregate, the unpaid principal balance 

of residential real estate loans greater than 150 days past due was 

charged down by approximately 46% and 36% to estimated collat-

eral value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 Real estate owned (ﬁREOﬂ): 
As part of the residential real 
estate foreclosure process, loans are written down to the fair value 
of the underlying real estate asset, less costs to sell, at acquisition. 

Typically, any further gains or losses on REO assets are recorded as 

part of other income. In those instances where the Firm gains 

ownership and possession of individual properties at the comple-

tion of the foreclosure process, these REO assets are managed for 

prompt sale and disposition at the best possible economic value. 

Operating expense, such as real estate taxes and maintenance, are 

charged to other expense. REO assets, excluding those insured by 

U.S. government agencies, increased by $138 million from Decem-

ber 31, 2009 to $1.3 billion, primarily related to foreclosures of 

non-PCI loans. It is anticipated that REO assets will continue to 

increase over the next several quarters, as loans moving through 

the foreclosure process are expected to increase. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
137
 Credit Card 
Credit card receivables (which include receivables i
n Firm-sponsored 
credit card securitization trusts that were not reported on the Con-
solidated Balance Sheets prior to January 1, 2010) were $137.7 

billion at December 31, 2010, a decrease of $25.7 billion from De-

cember 31, 2009, due to the decline in lower-yielding promotional 

balances and runoff of the Washington Mutual portfolio.  
The 30-day delinquency rate decreased to 4.07% at December 31, 
2010, from 6.28% at December 31, 2009, while the net charge-off 

rate increased to 9.73% for 2010, from 9.33% in 2009 due primarily 

to the decline in outstanding loans. The delinquency trend is showing 

improvement, especially within early stage delinquencies. Charge-offs 

were elevated in 2010 but showed improvement in the second half of 

the year as a result of lower delinquent loans and higher repayment 

rates. The credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned, 

largely rewards-based portfolio that has good U.S. geographic diversi-

fication. The greatest geographic concentration of credit card loans 

is in California which represented 13% of total loans at December 

2010, compared with 14% at December 2009. Loan concentration 

for the top five states of California, New York, Texas, Florida and 

Illinois consisted of $55.1 billion in receivables, or 40% of the 
portfolio, at December 2010, compared with $65.9 billion, or 40%, 

at December 2009. 
Credit card receivables, excluding the Washington Mutual portfolio, 
were $123.9 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $143.8 

billion at December 31, 2009. The 30-day delinquency rate, exclud-

ing the Washington Mutual portfolio, was 3.66% at December 31, 

2010, down from 5.52% at December 31, 2009, while the net 

charge-off rate increased to 8.72% in 2010 from 8.45% in 2009 

due largely to the decrease in outstanding loans.  
Credit card receivables in the Washington Mutual portfolio were 
$13.7 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $19.7 billion at 

December 31, 2009. The Washington Mutual portfolio™s 30-day 

delinquency rate was 7.74% at December 31, 2010, down from 

12.72% at December 31, 2009; the 2009 delinquency rate excludes 

the impact of the consolidation of the Washington Mutual Master 

Trust (ﬁWMMTﬂ) in the second quarter of 2009. The net charge-off 

rate in 2010 was 18.73%, compared with 18.79% in 2009, exclud-

ing the impact of the purchase accounting adjustments related to the 

consolidation of the WMMT in the second quarter of 2009. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Modifications of credit card loans  

For additional information about credit card loan modification 

activities, including credit card loan modifications accounted for 

as troubled debt restructurings, see Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 

of this Annual Report. 
JPMorgan Chase may offer one of a number of loan modifica-
tion programs to borrowers who are experiencing financial 

difficulty. The Firm has short-term programs for borrowers who 

may be in need of temporary relief, and long-term programs for 

borrowers who are experiencing a more fundamental level of 

financial difficulties. Most of the Firm™s modified credit card 
loans have been modified under the Firm™s long-term programs. 

Modifications under the Firm™s long-term programs involve 

placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 

months. Modifications under all of these programs typically 

include reducing the interest rate on the card. Also, in all cases, 

the Firm cancels the customer™s available line of credit on the 

credit card. Substantially all of these modifications, both short-

term and long-term, are considered to be TDRs. Based on the 

Firm™s historical experience, the Firm expects that a significant 

portion of the borrowers will not ultimately comply with the 

modified payment terms.
  
  
 Top 5 States Credit Card - Managed(at December 31, 2010)CaliforniaTexasTexasNew York60.0%13.3%7.5%Florida7.8%5.8%5.6%Illinois
IllinoisAll otherCaliforniaTexas
TexasNew York59.7%13.7%7.4%Florida7.7%6.1%5.4%Illinois
IllinoisAll otherTop 5 States Credit Card - Managed(at December 31, 2009)
 138 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
If the cardholder does not comply with the modified payment 
terms, then the credit card loan agreement generally reverts back 
to its pre-modification payment rate terms. Assuming that those 

borrowers do not begin to perform in accordance with those 

payment terms, the loans continue to age and will ultimately be 

charged off in accordance with the Firm™s standard charge-off 

policy. In addition, if a borrower successfully completes a short-

term modification program, then the loan reverts back to its pre-

modification payment terms. However, in most cases the Firm 

does not reinstate the borrower™s line of credit.   
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm had $10.0 billion and 
$6.2 billion, respectively, of onŒbalance sheet credit card loans 

outstanding that have been modified in troubled debt restructur-
ings. These balances include both credit card loans with modified 

payment terms and credit card loans that have reverted back to 

their pre-modification payment terms. The increase in modified 

credit card loans outstanding from December 31, 2009, to Decem-

ber 31, 2010, is primarily attributable to previously-modified loans 

held in Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts being con-

solidated as a result of adopting the new accounting guidance 

regarding consolidation of VIEs.  
Consistent with the Firm™s policy, all credit card loans typically 
remain on accrual status. However, the Firm separately establishes 

an allowance for the estimated uncollectible portion of billed and 

accrued interest and fee income on credit card loans.
 COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT EXPOSURE  
The Community Reinvestment Act (ﬁCRAﬂ) encourages banks  

to meet the credit needs of borrowers in all segments of their 

communities, including neighborhoods with low or moderate 

incomes. JPMorgan Chase is a national leader in community 

development by providing loans, investments and community 

development services in communities across the United States. 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm™s CRA loan portfolio 

was approximately $16 billion and $18 billion, respectively. Of 

the CRA portfolio 65% were residential mortgage loans and 

15% were business banking loans at both December 31, 2010 

and 2009, respectively; 9% and 8%, respectively, were com-

mercial real estate loans; and 11% and 12%, respectively, were 

other loans. The CRA nonaccrual loans were 6% of the Firm™s 

nonaccrual loans at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Net 

charge-offs in the CRA portfolio were 3% of the Firm™s net 

charge-offs in both 2010 and 2009.
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
139
 ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  
JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale 
(risk-rated), and consumer (primarily scored) portfolios. The allow-

ance represents management™s estimate of probable credit losses 

inherent in the Firm™s loan portfolio. Management also determines 

an allowance for wholesale and consumer (excluding credit card) 

lending-related commitments using a methodology similar to that 

used for the wholesale loans. During 2010, the Firm did not make 

any significant changes to the methodologies or policies used to 

establish its allowance for credit losses. 
For a further discussion of the components of the allowance for 
credit losses, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on 

pages 149Œ154 and Note 15 on pages 239Œ243 of this Annual 

Report. 
At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the 
Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of 

the Firm and discussed with the Risk Policy and Audit Committees 

of the Board of Directors of the Firm. As of December 31, 2010, 

JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit losses to be 

appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorb losses inherent in the portfo-

lio, including those not yet identifiable).  
The allowance for credit losses was $33.0 billion at December 31, 
2010, an increase of $442 million from $32.5 billion at December 

31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to the Firm™s adoption 

of accounting guidance related to VIEs. As a result of the consoli-

dation of certain securitization entities, the Firm established an 

allowance for loan losses of $7.5 billion at January 1, 2010, 

primarily related to the receivables that had been held in credit 

card securitization trusts. Excluding the $7.5 billion transition 

adjustment at adoption, the allowance decreased by $6.8 billion 

in the consumer and wholesale portfolios, generally reflecting an 

improvement in credit quality. 
The consumer (excluding credit card) allowance for loan losses 

increased $1.6 billion largely due to a $3.4 billion increase related 

to further estimated deterioration in the Washington Mutual PCI 

pools, partially offset by a $1.8 billion reduction predominantly in 

non-credit-impaired residential real estate reserves reflecting im-

proved loss outlook as a result of the resumption of favorable 

delinquency trends at the end of 2010, as well as a $632 million 

adjustment related to the estimated net realizable value of the 

collateral underlying delinquent residential home loans. For addi-

tional information, refer to page 131 of this Annual Report. 
The credit card allowance for loan losses increased $1.4 billion 
from December 31, 2009, largely due to the impact of the adoption 

of the accounting guidance related to VIEs. Excluding the effect of 

the transition adjustment at adoption, the credit card allowance 

decreased by $6.0 billion from December 31, 2009, reflecting lower 

estimated losses primarily related to improved delinquency trends 

as well as lower levels of outstandings.  
The wholesale allowance for loan losses decreased by $2.4 billion 
from December 31, 2009, primarily due to repayments and loan 

sales, as well as continued improvement in the credit quality of the 

commercial and industrial loan portfolio. 
The allowance for lending-related commitments for both wholesale 
and consumer (excluding credit card), which is reported in other 

liabilities, was $717 million and $939 million at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease primarily reflected the 

continued improvement in the credit quality of the wholesale com-

mercial and industrial loan portfolio. 
The credit ratios in the table below are based on retained loan 
balances, which exclude loans held-for-sale and loans accounted 

for at fair value. 
 
 140 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses 
 2010
  2009 
 Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios) 
Wholesale  
Consumer, 
excluding  
credit card Credit Card  Total Wholesale  
Consumer, 
excluding  
credit card Credit Card   Total 
Allowance for loan losses
          
Beginning balance at January 1, 
 $ 7,145
  $ 14,785
  $ 9,672
  $ 31,602
  $ 6,545  $ 8,927  $ 7,692  $   23,164 
Cumulative effect of change in 
 accounting principles
(a)
    14    127    7,353   7,494 
   Š   Š   Š 
 Š 
Gross charge-offs
(a)
    1,989    8,383    15,410   25,782 
   3,226   10,421   10,371  24,018 
Gross (recoveries)
(a)
    (262)    (474)    (1,373)   (2,109) 
   (94)   (222)   (737)  (1,053) 
Net charge-offs
(a)
    1,727    7,909    14,037   23,673 
   3,132   10,199   9,634  22,965 
Provision for loan losses
(a)
    (673)    9,458    8,037   16,822 
   3,684   16,032   12,019  31,735 
Other
(b)
    2    10    9   21 
         48    25   (405) 
  (332) 
Ending balance 
   $  4,761
   $  16,471
   $  11,034
  $  32,266
   $  7,145  $  14,785   $  9,672  $   31,602 
Impairment methodology
 Asset-specific
(c)(d)(e)
   $ 1,574   $ 1,075   $ 4,069  $ 6,718 
  $ 2,046  $ 896   $ 3,117  $     6,059 
Formula-based
(a)(
e)    3,187    10,455    6,965   20,607 
   5,099   12,308   6,555  23,962 
PCI 
   Š    4,941
    Š   4,941
    Š   1,581   Š  1,581 
Total allowance for loan losses
   $ 4,761
   $ 16,
471
   $ 11,034
  $ 32,266
   $ 7,145  $ 14,785   $ 9,672  $   31,602 
Allowance for lending
-related 
 commitments
 Beginning balance at January 1, 
  $ 927   $ 12   $ Š  $ 939 
  $ 634  $ 25   $ Š  $        659 
Cumulative effect of change in 
 accounting principles
(a)
    (18)    Š    Š   (18) 
   Š   Š   Š 
 Š 
Provision for lending
-related 
 commitments
(a)
    (177)    (6)    Š   (183) 
   290   (10)   Š 
 280 
Other 
   (21
)    Š    Š   (21
)    3   (3)   Š 
 Š 
Ending balance 
  $ 711
  $ 6  $ Š  $ 717
  $ 927  $ 12  $ Š  $        939 
Impairment methodology
 Asset-specific 
 $ 180  $ Š  $ Š  $ 180 
 $ 297  $ Š  $ Š  $        297 
Formula-based 
  531
   6   Š   537
   630   12   Š 
 642 
Total allowance for lending
-related commitments  $ 711  $ 6  $ Š  $ 717 
 $ 927  $ 12  $ Š  $        939 
Total allowance for credit losses
  $ 5,472
  $ 16,477
  $ 11,034
  $ 32,983
  $ 8,072  $ 14,797  $ 9,672  $   32,541 
Memo: 
        Retained loans, end of period  
 $ 222,510
  $ 327,464
  $ 135,524
  $ 685,498
  $ 200,077  $ 348,355  $ 78,786  $ 627,218 
Retained loans, average 
  213,609
   340,334
   144,219
   698,162
   223,047   362,216   87,029   672,292 
Credit ratios   
      Allowance for loan losses to retained 
loans 
 2.14%
  5.03%
   8.14%
   4.71%
  3.57%    4.24
%  12.28%
   5.04% 
Allowance for loan losses to retained 
nonaccrual loans
(f)
  86 
  186 
 
 NM 
 
 225 
 109    139  NM   184
Al
lowance for loan losses to retained 
nonaccrual loans excluding credit 
card 
 86 
  186 
 
 NM 
 
 148 
 109    139  NM   127
Net charge-off rates
(g)
   0.81 
  2.32 
  9.73 
  3.39 
 1.40    2.82  11.07   3.42
Credit ratios excluding home 
lending PCI loans and loans 
held by the WMMT   
     Allowance for loan losses to retained 
loans
(h)
  
 2.14 
 
 4.53 
 
 8.14 
 
 4.46 
 3.57    4.94  12.43   5.51
Allowance for loan losses to retained 
nonaccrual loans
(f)(h)
  86 
 
 131 
 
 NM 
 
 190 
 109    124  NM   174
Allowance fo
r loan losses to retained 
nonaccrual loans excluding credit 
card
(f)(h)
  86 
  131 
 
 NM 
 
 114 
 109    124  NM   118
(a)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon the adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card 
securitization trusts, its Firm-administered multi-seller conduits and certain other consumer loan securitization entities, primarily mortgage-related. As a result $7.4 billion, 
$14 million and $127 million, respectively, of allowance for loan losses were recorded on-balance sheet associated with the consolidation of these entities. For further 

discussion, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(b)
 Other predominantly includes a reclassification in 2009 related to the issuance and retention of securities from the Chase Issuance Trust. 
(c)
 Includes risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a TDR. 
(d)
 The asset-specific consumer (excluding credit card) allowance for loan losses includes TDR reserves of $985 million and $754 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, 
respectively. Prior-period amounts have been reclassified from formula-based to conform with the current period presentation. 
(e)
 At December 31, 2010, the Firm™s allowance for loan losses on credit card loans for which the Firm has modified the terms of the loans for borrowers who are experienc-

ing financial difficulty was reclassified to the asset-specific allowance. Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
141
 (f)
 The Firm™s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance. Under the guidance issued by the 
FFIEC, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification about a 
specified event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), whichever is earlier.  
(g)
 Charge-offs are not recorded on PCI loans until actual losses exceed estimated losses recorded as purchase accounting adjustments at the time of acquisition. 
(h)
 Excludes the impact of PCI loans acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction. The allowance for loan losses on PCI loans was $4.9 billion and $1.6 billion as 

of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
The following table presents a credit ratio excluding: home lending 
PCI loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction; and credit 
card loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust which were 

consolidated onto the Firm™s balance sheet at fair value during the 

second quarter of 2009. The PCI loans were accounted for at fair 

value on the acquisition date, which incorporated management™s 

estimate, as of that date, of credit losses over the remaining life of 

the portfolio. Accordingly, no allowance for loan losses was recorded 

for these loans as of the acquisition date. Subsequent evaluations of 
estimated credit deterioration in this portfolio resulted in the re-

cording of an allowance for loan losses of $4.9 billion and $1.6 

billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For more 

information on home lending PCI loans, see pages 132Œ134 of this 

Annual Report. For more information on the consolidation of assets 

from the Washington Mutual Master Trust, see Note 16 on pages 

244Œ259 of this Annual Report.  
The calculation of the allowance for loan losses to total retained loans, excluding PCI loans and loans held by the WMMT, is presented below.  
December 31, (in millions, except ratios) 
 2010
 2009
 Allowance for loan losses 
 $   
 32,266
   $   31,602
 Less:  Allowance for PCI loans 
  4,941
   1,581
 Adjusted allowance for loan losses
  $   
 27,325
   $   30,021
 Total loans retained  
 $  685,498 
  $ 627,218
 Less:  Firmwide PCI loans 
  72,8
07
   81,380
   Loans held by the WMMT 
  Š   1,002
 Adjusted loans
  $ 
 612,6
91
   $ 544,836
 Allowance for loan losses to ending loans excluding PCI loans and loans held by the WMMT 
 4.46
%  5.51
 %  Provision for credit losses 
The provision for credit losses was $16.6 billion for
 the year ended 
December 31, 2010, down by $21.8 billion, or 57%, from the prior-
year provision. The total consumer provision (excluding credit card) 

for credit losses was $9.5 billion, reflecting an addition to the allow-

ance for loan losses of $1.6 billion (primarily related to the increase in 

allowance for the PCI portfolio of $3.4 billion), partially offset by a 

$1.8 billion reduction in allowance predominantly for non-credit-

impaired residential real estate loans. The prior year provision was 

$16.0 billion reflecting additions of $5.8 billion predominantly for the 

home equity and mortgage portfolios, including $1.6 billion for the 
PCI portfolio. The total credit card provision for credit losses was $8.0 

billion, primarily reflecting a reduction in the allowance for credit 

losses of $6.0 billion as a result of improved delinquency trends and 

reduced net charge-offs. The prior year managed provision was $18.5 

billion reflecting additions to the allowance of $2.4 billion. The 

wholesale provision for credit losses was a benefit of $850 million, 

compared with expense of $4.0 billion, reflecting a reduction in the 

allowance for credit losses predominantly as a result of continued 

improvement in the credit quality of the commercial and industrial 

portfolio, reduced net charge-offs and repayments. 
Year ended December 31, 
  Provision for loan losses  
Provision for 
 lending-related commitments  Total provision for credit losses 
(in millions)  
 2010
  2009   2008 
 2010
  2009  2008 
  
 2010
  2009 2008
 Wholesale 
 $ (673)
  $   3,684  $   3,536 
 $ (177)
  $ 290 
  $ (209) 
 $ (850)
  $   3,974  $   3,327
 Consumer, excluding credit card
(a)
   9,458
 16,032 10,659 
(6)
 (10) (49) 
9,
  452
 16,022 10,610
 Credit cardŒ reported
(a)(b)
   8,037
 12,019 7,042 
Š Š Š 
  8,037
 12,019 7,042
 Total pr
ovision for credit 
losses Œ reported   16,822
 31,735 
 21,237 
(183)
 280 
 (258) 
  16,639
 32,015 20,979
 Credit card Œ securitized
(b)(
c)   NA
 6,443 3,612 
NA
 Š Š 
  NA
 6,443 3,612
 Total provision for credit 
losses Œ managed
  $16,822
  $ 38,178  $ 24,849 
 $ (183)
  $ 280 
  $ (258) 
 $16,639
  $ 38,458  $ 24,591
 (a)
 Includes adjustments to the provision for credit losses recognized in the Corporate/Private Equity segment related to the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 
(b)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. As a result of the consolidation of the credit card securitization trusts, reported and 
managed basis relating to credit card securitizations are equivalent for periods beginning after January 1, 2010. For further discussion regarding the Firm™s application 

and the impact of the new guidance, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm™s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 64Œ65 of this Annual Report.  
(c)
 Loans securitized are defined as loans that were sold to unconsolidated securitization trusts and were not included in reported loans. For further discussion of credit 
card securitizations, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 

 142 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT  
            
 Market risk is the exposure to an adverse change in the market 
value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by a change in 
market prices or rates.  
Market risk management 
 Market Risk is an independent risk management function that 
works in close partnership with the business segments to identify 
and monitor market risks throughout the Firm and to define market 
risk policies and procedures. The risk management function is 
headed by the Firm™s Chief Risk Officer. 
Market Risk seeks to facilitate efficient risk/return decisions, 
reduce volatility in operating performance and provide transpar-

ency into the Firm™s market risk profile for senior management, 

the Board of Directors and regulators. Market Risk is responsible 
for the following functions:  
· establishing a market risk policy framework  
· independent measurement, monitoring and control of line-of-
business market risk  
· definition, approval and monitoring of limits  
· performance of stress testing and qualitative risk assessments  
Risk identification and classification 
 Each line of business is responsible for the comprehensive identifi-
cation and verification of market risks within its units. The Firm™s 
market risks arise primarily from the activities in IB, Mortgage 
Banking, and CIO in Corporate/Private Equity.  
IB makes markets and trades its products across the fixed income, 
foreign exchange, equities and commodities markets. This trading 

activity may lead to a potential decline in net income due to ad-

verse changes in market rates. In addition to these trading risks, 

there are risks in IB™s credit portfolio from retained loans and com-

mitments, derivative credit valuation adjustments, hedges of the 
credit valuation adjustments and mark-to-market hedges of the 
retained loan portfolio. Additional risk positions result from the 

debit valuation adjustments taken on certain structured liabilities 
and derivatives to reflect the credit quality of the Firm. 
The Firm™s Mortgage Banking business includes the Firm™s mortgage 
pipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs and all related hedges. These 

activities give rise to complex interest rate risks, as well as option 

and basis risk. Option risk arises primarily from prepayment options 
embedded in mortgages and changes in the probability of newly 
originated mortgage commitments actually closing. Basis risk results 
from differences in the relative movements of the rate indices under-
lying mortgage exposure and other interest rates.  
CIO is primarily concerned with managing structural risks which 
arise out of the various business activities of the Firm. Market Risk 

measures and monitors the gross structural exposures as well as 
the net exposures related to these activities. 
Risk measurement 
Tools used to measure risk 
 Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market 
risk, the Firm uses various metrics, both statistical and nonsta-
tistical, including:  
· Value-at-risk (ﬁVaRﬂ) 
· Economic-value stress testing  
· Nonstatistical risk measures  
· Loss advisories  
· Revenue drawdowns 
· Risk identification for large exposures (ﬁRIFLEsﬂ)  
· Earnings-at-risk stress testing  
Value-at-risk 
JPMorgan Chase utilizes VaR, a statistical risk measure, to estimate 
the potential loss from adverse market moves. Each business day, 

as part of its risk management activities, the Firm undertakes a 

comprehensive VaR calculation that includes the majority of its 

material market risks. VaR provides a consistent cross-business 

measure of risk profiles and levels of diversification and is used for 
comparing risks across businesses and monitoring limits. These VaR 
results are reported to senior management and regulators, and they 
feed regulatory capital calculations.  
The Firm calculates VaR to estimate possible economic outcomes 
for current positions using historical data from the previous twelve 

months. This approach assumes that historical changes in market 

values are representative of current risk; this assumption may not 

always be valid. VaR is calculated using a one-day time horizon and 
an expected tail-loss methodology, which approximates a 95% 
confidence level. This means the Firm would expect to incur losses 

greater than that predicted by VaR estimates five times in every 
100 trading days, or about 12 to 13 times a year.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
143
 The table below shows the results of the Firm™s VaR 
measure using a 95% confidence level.  
95% Confidence-Level VaR
  
Total IB trading VaR by risk type, credit portfolio VaR and other VaR 
 As of or for the year ended 
2010
  2009 
 At December 31, 
December 31,
  (in millions) Average Minimum Maximum Average Minimum Maximum 
20
10 2009
 IB VaR by risk type
          Fixed income 
 $ 65
  $ 33
  $ 95
  $ 160  $ 80  $ 216 
 $ 52
 $   80
 Foreign exchange 
  11
   6   20
   18   7   39 
  16
 10
 Equities 
  22
   10
   52
   47   8   156 
  30
 43
 Commodities and other 
  16
   11   32
   20   11   35 
  13
 14
 Diversification benefit to 
IB 
trading VaR 
  (43)
(a)
  NM
(b)
  NM
(b)
  (91)
(a)
  NM
(b)
  NM
(b)
 (34)
(a)
 (54
)(a)
 IB trading VaR
  $ 
 71
  $ 
 40
  $ 
107
  $  154  $  77  $  236 
 $ 
 77
 $   93
 Credit portfolio VaR  
  26
   15
   40
   52   18   106 
  27
   21
 Diversification benefit to IB 
trading and credit portfolio 
VaR
  (10)
(a)
  NM
(b)
   NM
(b)
  (42)
(a)
  NM
(b)
  NM
(b)
   (5)
(a)
 (9
)(a)
 Total IB trading and credit 
portfolio VaR 
 $ 87
  $ 50
  $ 128
  $ 164  $ 93  $ 256 
 $ 99
 $ 105
 Mortgage Banking VaR 
 $ 23
  $ 8  $ 47
  $ 57  $ 19  $ 151 
 $ 9 $   28
 Chief Investment Office
  (ﬁCIOﬂ) VaR 
  61
   44
   80
   103   71   126 
  56
 76
 Diversification benefit to 
total 
other VaR 
  (13)
(a)
  NM
(b)
  NM
(b)
   (36)
(a)
  NM
(b)
  NM
(b)
   (10)
(a)
 (13
)(a)
 Total o
ther VaR
  $ 71
  $ 48
  $ 100
  $ 124  $ 79  $ 202 
 $ 55
 $   91
 Diversific
ation benefit to
 total 
IB and other VaR 
  (59)
(a)
  NM
(b)
  NM
(b)
   (82)
(a)
  NM
(b)
  NM
(b)
 (65)
(a)
 (73
)(a)
 Total IB and o
ther VaR
  $ 99
  $ 66
  $ 142
  $ 206  $ 111  $ 328 
 $ 89
 $ 123
 (a) Average VaR and period-end VaR were less than the sum of the VaR of the components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification. The diversification effect 
reflects the fact that the risks were not perfectly correlated. The risk of a portfolio of positions is therefore usually less than the sum of the risks of the positions themselves. 
(b) Designated as not meaningful (ﬁNMﬂ), because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components, and hence it is not meaningful 
to compute a portfolio-diversification effect.
  VaR measurement 
IB trading and credit portfolio VaR includes substantially all trading 
activities in IB, including the credit spread sensitivities of certain 

mortgage products and syndicated lending facilities that the Firm 

intends to distribute. The Firm uses proxies to estimate the VaR for 

these products since daily time series are largely not available. It is 

likely that using an actual price-based time series for these products, 

if available, would affect the VaR results presented. In addition, for 

certain products included in IB trading and credit portfolio VaR, 

particular risk parameters are not fully captured Œ for example, corre-

lation risk. 
Total other VaR includes certain positions employed as part of the 
Firm™s risk management function within CIO and in the Mortgage 

Banking business. CIO VaR includes positions, primarily in debt 

securities and credit products, used to manage structural and other 

risks including interest rate, credit and mortgage risks arising from the 

Firm™s ongoing business activities. The Mortgage Banking VaR in-

cludes the Firm™s mortgage pipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs and 

all related hedges.  
In the Firm™s view, including IB trading and credit portfolio VaR within 
total other VaR produces a more complete and transparent perspec-

tive of the Firm™s market risk profile. 
IB and other VaR does not include the retained credit portfolio, which 
is not marked to market; however, it does include hedges of those 
positions. It also does not include debit valuation adjustments 

(ﬁDVAﬂ) taken on derivative and structured liabilities to reflect the 

credit quality of the Firm, principal investments (mezzanine financing, 

tax-oriented investments, etc.), and certain securities and investments 

held by the Corporate/Private Equity line of business, including private 

equity investments, capital management positions and longer-term 

investments managed by CIO. These longer-term positions are man-

aged through the Firm™s earnings at risk and other cash flow monitor-

ing processes, rather than by using a VaR measure. Principal investing 

activities and Private Equity positions are managed using stress and 

scenario analyses. See the DVA Sensitivity table on page 144 of this 

Annual Report for further details. For a discussion of Corpo-

rate/Private Equity, see pages 89Œ90 of this Annual Report. 
2010 and 2009 VaR results 
As presented in the table, average total IB and other VaR totaled 

$99 million for 2010, compared with $206 million for 2009. The 

decrease in average VaR in 2010 was driven by a decline in market 

volatility in early 2009, as well as a reduction in exposures, primar-

ily in CIO and IB. Average total IB trading and credit portfolio VaR 

for 2010 was $87 million, compared with $164 million for 2009. 

The decrease in IB trading and credit portfolio VaR for 2010 was 

also driven by the decline in market volatility, as well as a reduction 

in exposure, primarily in the fixed income risk component. CIO VaR 

averaged $61 million for 2010, compared with $103 million for 

2009. Mortgage Banking VaR averaged $23 million for 2010, 

 144 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
compared with $57 million for 2009. Decreases in CIO and Mort-
gage Banking VaR for 2010 were again driven by the decline in 
market volatility and position changes. The decline in Mortgage 

Banking VaR at December 31, 2010, reflects management™s deci-

sion to reduce risk given market volatility at the time. 
The Firm™s average IB and other VaR diversification benefit was $59 
million or 37% of the sum for 2010, compared with $82 million or 

28% of the sum for 2009. The Firm experienced an increase in the  

diversification benefit in 2010 as positions changed and correla-

tions decreased. In general, over the course of the year, VaR expo-

sure can vary significantly as positions change, market volatility 

fluctuates and diversification benefits change. 
VaR back-testing  

The Firm conducts daily back-testing of VaR against its market risk-

related revenue, which is defined as the change in value of: princi-

pal transactions revenue for IB and CIO (less Private Equity 

gains/losses and revenue from longer-term CIO investments); 

trading-related net interest income for IB, CIO and Mortgage Bank-

ing; IB brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or other revenue; 

revenue from syndicated lending facilities that the Firm intends to 

distribute; and mortgage fees and related income for the Firm™s 

mortgage pipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs, and all related 

hedges. Daily firmwide market riskŒrelated revenue excludes gains 

and losses from DVA.  
The following histogram illustrates the daily market riskŒrelated gains and losses for IB, CIO and Mortgage Banking positions for 2010. The 
chart shows that the Firm posted market riskŒrelated gains on 248 out of 261 days in this period, with 12 days exceeding $210 million. The 

inset graph looks at those days on which the Firm experienced losses and depicts the amount by which the 95% confidence-level VaR ex-
ceeded the actual loss on each of those days. During 2010, losses were sustained on 13 days, none of which exceeded the VaR measure. 
 < (30)90 > < 120120 > < 150150 > < 180180 > < 210210 > < 24030 > < 60(30) > < 0Daily IB and Other Market Risk-Related Gains and Losses
(95% Confidence-Level VaR
)Yea
r ended December 31, 2010 
 Number of trading days
Average daily revenue: $87 millio
n  010203040506070
80$ in millions2468 < 020 > < 4040 > < 6060 > < 8080 > < 100 > 120$ in millionsNumber of trading days 
Daily IB and Other VaR
 less market risk-related losses
100 > < 1200 > < 3060 > < 900> 240The following table provides information about the gross sensitivity 

of DVA to a one-basis-point increase in JPMorgan Chase™s credit 

spreads. This sensitivity represents the impact from a one-basis-point 

parallel shift in JPMorgan Chase™s entire credit curve. As credit 

curves do not typically move in a parallel fashion, the sensitivity 

multiplied by the change in spreads at a single maturity point may 

not be representative of the actual revenue recognized. 
Debit valuation adjustment sensitivity  
 1 Basis 
point 
increase in
 December 31, 
(in millions)
 JPMorgan Chase
™s credit s
pread
 20
10
 $ 
35
 200
9   
 39
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
145
 Economic value stress testing   
While VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in mar-
kets using recent historical market behavior as an indicator of 
losses, stress testing captures the Firm™s exposure to unlikely but 

plausible events in abnormal markets using multiple scenarios that 

assume significant changes in credit spreads, equity prices, interest 

rates, currency rates or commodity prices. Scenarios are updated 

dynamically and may be redefined on an ongoing basis to reflect current 

market conditions. Along with VaR, stress testing is important in meas-

uring and controlling risk; it enhances understanding of the Firm™s risk 

profile and loss potential, as stress losses are monitored against limits. 

Stress testing is also employed in cross-business risk management. 

Stress-test results, trends and explanations based on current market risk 

positions are reported to the Firm™s senior management and to the lines 

of business to allow them to better understand event riskŒsensitive 

positions and manage risks with more transparency. 
Nonstatistical risk measures 
Nonstatistical risk measures as well as stress testing include sensitivi-

ties to variables used to value positions, such as credit spread sensi-

tivities, interest rate basis point values and market values. These 

measures provide granular information on the Firm™s market risk 

exposure. They are aggregated by line-of-business and by risk type, 

and are used for tactical control and monitoring limits.  
Loss advisories and revenue drawdowns 
Loss advisories and net revenue drawdowns are tools used to 

highlight trading losses above certain levels of risk tolerance. Net 

revenue drawdown is defined as the decline in net revenue since 

the year-to-date peak revenue level.
 Risk identification for large exposures
 Individuals who manage risk positions in IB are responsible for 

identifying potential losses that could arise from specific, unusual 
events, such as a potential change in tax legislation, or a particu-

lar combination of unusual market moves. This information is 

aggregated centrally for IB. Trading businesses are responsible for 

RIFLEs, thereby permitting the Firm to monitor further earnings 

vulnerability not adequately covered by standard risk measures. 
Earnings-at-risk stress testing  
The VaR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the 

total economic sensitivity of the Firm™s Consolidated Balance 

Sheets to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate 

exposure on reported net income is also important. Interest rate 

risk exposure in the Firm™s core nontrading business activities 

(i.e., asset/liability management positions, including accrual loans 

within IB and CIO) results from onŒ and offŒbalance sheet posi-

tions. ALCO establishes the Firm™s interest rate risk policies, sets 

risk guidelines and limits and reviews the risk profile of the Firm. 

Treasury, working in partnership with the lines of business, calcu-

lates the Firm™s interest rate risk profile weekly and reports to 

senior management. 
Interest rate risk for nontrading activities can occur due to a 
variety of factors, including: 
· Differences in the timing among the maturity or repricing  

of assets, liabilities and offŒbalance sheet instruments. For  

example, if liabilities reprice more quickly than assets and fund-

ing interest rates are declining, earnings will increase initially. 
· Differences in the amounts of assets, liabilities and offŒbalance 

sheet instruments that are repricing at the same time. For example, 

if more deposit liabilities are repricing than assets when general 

interest rates are declining, earnings will increase initially. 
· Differences in the amounts by which short-term and long-term 

market interest rates change (for example, changes in the 

slope of the yield curve) because the Firm has the ability to 

lend at long-term fixed rates and borrow at variable or short-

term fixed rates. Based on these scenarios, the Firm™s earnings 

would be affected negatively by a sudden and unanticipated 

increase in short-term rates paid on its liabilities (e.g., depos-

its) without a corresponding increase in long-term rates re-

ceived on its assets (e.g., loans). Conversely, higher long-term 

rates received on assets generally are beneficial to earnings, 

particularly when the increase is not accompanied by rising 

short-term rates paid on liabilities. 
· The impact of changes in the maturity of various assets, liabili-

ties or offŒbalance sheet instruments as interest rates change. 

For example, if more borrowers than forecasted pay down 

higher-rate loan balances when general interest rates are de-

clining, earnings may decrease initially. 
The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and 

liabilities on a consolidated, corporate-wide basis. Business units 

transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury through a transfer-

pricing system, which takes into account the elements of interest 

rate exposure that can be risk-managed in financial markets. 

These elements include asset and liability balances and contrac-

tual rates of interest, contractual principal payment schedules, 

expected prepayment experience, interest rate reset dates and 

maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and any interest rate 

ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-pricing 

assumptions are dynamically reviewed. 
The Firm conducts simulations of changes in net interest income 
from its nontrading activities under a variety of interest rate 

scenarios. Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change in 

the Firm™s net interest income, and the corresponding impact to 

the Firm™s pretax earnings, over the following 12 months. These 

tests highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors, such as 

the rates themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing strate-

gies on deposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The tests 

include forecasted balance sheet changes, such as asset sales and 

securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior. 

Mortgage prepayment assumptions are based on current interest 

rates compared with underlying contractual rates, the time since 

origination, and other factors which are updated periodically based 

on historical experience and forward market expectations. The 

balance and pricing assumptions of deposits that have no stated 

maturity are based on historical performance, the competitive 

environment, customer behavior, and product mix. 

 146 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk, 
and so a number of alternative scenarios are also reviewed. These 
scenarios include the implied forward curve, nonparallel rate shifts 

and severe interest rate shocks on selected key rates. These scenar-

ios are intended to provide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan 

Chase™s earnings at risk over a wide range of outcomes. 
JPMorgan Chase™s 12-month pretax earnings sensitivity profiles as 
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, were as follows. 
 Immediate change in rates
 December 31, 
(in millions)
      
+200bp
          
+100bp
 -100bp
 -200
 bp 2010 
$ 2,465   $  1,483 
 NM
(a)
(b)
    NM
 (a)(b)
 2009 
  (1,594)     (554) 
 NM
(a)
    NM
 (a)
 (a)
 Downward 100- and 200-basis-point parallel shocks result in a Fed Funds 
target rate of zero, and negative three- and six-month Treasury rates. The 
earnings-at-risk results of such a low-probability scenario are not meaningful. 
(b)
 Excludes economic value stress losses. 
The change in earnings at risk from December 31, 2009, resulted from 
investment portfolio repositioning, assumed higher levels of deposit 
balances and reduced levels of fixed-rate loans. The Firm™s risk to rising 

rates was largely the result of widening deposit margins, which are 

currently compressed due to very low short-term interest rates.
 Additionally, another interest rate scenario conducted by the Firm Œ 

involving a steeper yield curve with long-term rates rising by 100 basis 

points and short-term rates staying at current levels Œ results in a 12-

month pretax earnings benefit of $770 million. The increase in earnings 

under this scenario is due to reinvestment of maturing assets at the 

higher long-term rates, with funding costs remaining unchanged. 
Risk monitoring and control 
Limits 
Market risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits. 
Limits reflect the Firm™s risk appetite in the context of the market 

environment and business strategy. In setting limits, the Firm 

takes into consideration factors such as senior management risk 

appetite, market volatility, product liquidity, accommodation of 

client business and management experience. 
Market risk management regularly reviews and updates risk limits. 
Senior management, including the Firm™s Chief Executive Officer 

and Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for reviewing and approving 

cetain risk limits on an ongoing basis.  
The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate-level limits 

include VaR and stress limits. Similarly, line-of-business limits include 

VaR and stress limits and may be supplemented by loss advisories, 

nonstatistical measurements and profit and loss drawdowns. Busi-

nesses are responsible for adhering to established limits, against 

which exposures are monitored and reported. Limit breaches are 

reported in a timely manner to senior management, and the affected 

line-of-business is required to reduce trading positions or consult with 

senior management on the appropriate action.  
Model review 
Some of the Firm™s financial instruments cannot be valued based on 

quoted market prices but are instead valued using pricing models. 

These pricing models and VaR models are used for management of 

risk positions, such as reporting against limits, as well as for valua-

tion. The Model Risk Group, which is independent of the businesses 

and market risk management, reviews the models the Firm uses and 

assesses model appropriateness and consistency. The model reviews 

consider a number of factors about the model™s suitability for valua-

tion and risk management of a particular product. These factors 

include whether the model accurately reflects the characteristics of 

the transaction and its significant risks, the suitability and conver-

gence properties of numerical algorithms, reliability of data sources, 

consistency of the treatment with models for similar products, and 

sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that cannot be priced 

from the market.  
Reviews are conducted of new or changed models, as well as previ-
ously accepted models, to assess whether there have been any 

changes in the product or market that may affect the model™s validity 

and whether there are theoretical or competitive developments that 

may require reassessment of the model™s adequacy. For a summary of 

valuations based on models, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used 

by the Firm on pages 149Œ154 of this Annual Report. 
Risk reporting 
Nonstatistical risk measures, VaR, loss advisories an
d limit excesses 
are reported daily to the lines of business and to senior manage-
ment. Market risk exposure trends, VaR trends, profit-and-loss 

changes and portfolio concentrations are reported weekly. Stress-

test results are also reported weekly to the lines of business and to 

senior management.  

  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
147
 PRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT    
 The Firm makes principal investments in private equity. The illiquid 
nature and long-term holding periods associated with these in-

vestments differentiates private equity risk from the risk of positions 

held in the trading portfolios. The Firm™s approach to managing 

private equity risk is consistent with the Firm™s general risk govern-

ance structure. Controls are in place establishing expected levels for 

total and annual investment in order to control the overall size of 

the portfolios. Industry and geographic concentration limits are in 

place and intended to ensure diversification of the portfolios. All 

investments are approved by investment committees that include 
executives who are not part of the investing businesses. An inde-

pendent valuation function is responsible for reviewing the appro-

priateness of the carrying values of private equity investments in 

accordance with relevant accounting policies. At December 31, 

2010 and 2009, the carrying value of the Private Equity portfolio 

was $8.7 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively, of which $875 

million and $762 million, respectively, represented publicly-traded 

positions. For further information on the Private Equity portfolio, 

see page 90 of this Annual Report. 
  OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT   
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
processes or systems, human factors or external events.  
Overview 
Operational risk is inherent in each of the Firm™s businesses and 

support activities. Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways, 

including errors, fraudulent acts, business interruptions, inappropriate 

behavior of employees, or vendors that do not perform in accordance 

with their arrangements. These events could result in financial losses 

and other damage to the Firm, including reputational harm. 
To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains a system 
of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to 

provide a sound and well-controlled operational environment. The 

goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, in light of the 

Firm™s financial strength, the characteristics of its businesses, the 

markets in which it operates, and the competitive and regulatory 

environment to which it is subject. Notwithstanding these control 

measures, the Firm incurs operational losses.  
The Firm™s approach to operational risk management is intended to 
mitigate such losses by supplementing traditional control-based 

approaches to operational risk with risk measures, tools and disci-

plines that are risk-specific, consistently applied and utilized firmwide. 

Key themes are transparency of information, escalation of key issues 

and accountability for issue resolution. 
One of the ways operational risk is mitigated is through insurance 
maintained by the Firm. The Firm purchases insurance to be in com-

pliance with local laws and regulations, as well as to serve other 

needs of the Firm. Insurance may also be required by third parties 

with whom the Firm does business. The insurance purchased is 

reviewed and approved by senior management.  
The Firm™s operational risk framework is supported by Phoenix, an 
internally designed operational risk software tool. Phoenix integrates 

the individual components of the operational risk management 

framework into a unified, web-based tool. Phoenix enhances the 

capture, reporting and analysis of operational risk data by enabling 

risk identification, measurement, monitoring, reporting and analysis 

to be done in an integrated manner, thereby enabling efficiencies in 

the Firm™s monitoring and management of its operational risk. 
For purposes of identification, monitoring, reporting and analysis, the 

Firm categorizes operational risk events as follows: 
Ł  Client service and selection 
Ł  Business practices 

Ł  Fraud, theft and malice 

Ł  Execution, delivery and process management 

Ł  Employee disputes 

Ł  Disasters and public safety 
Ł  Technology and infrastructure failures 
Risk identification 
Risk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that 

management believes may give rise to operational losses. All busi-

nesses utilize the Firm™s standard self-assessment process and sup-

porting architecture as a dynamic risk management tool. The goal of 

the self-assessment process is for each business to identify the key 

operational risks specific to its environment and assess the degree to 

which it maintains appropriate controls. Action plans are developed 

for control issues that are identified, and businesses are held ac-
countable for tracking and resolving these issues on a timely basis. 
Risk measurement 
Operational risk is measured for each business on the basis of histori-

cal loss experience using a statistically based loss-distribution ap-

proach. The current business environment, potential stress scenarios 

and measures of the control environment are then factored into the 

statistical measure in determining firmwide operational risk capital. 

This methodology is designed to comply with the advanced meas-

urement rules under the Basel II Framework. 
Risk monitoring 
The Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data, 

permitting analysis of errors and losses as well as trends. Such analy-

sis, performed both at a line-of-business level and by risk-event type, 

enables identification of the causes associated with risk events faced 

by the businesses. Where available, the internal data can be supple-

mented with external data for comparative analysis with industry 

patterns. The data reported enables the Firm to back-test against self-

assessment results. The Firm is a founding member of the Operational 

Riskdata eXchange Association, a not-for-profit industry association 

formed for the purpose of collecting operational loss data, sharing 

data in an anonymous form and benchmarking results back to mem-

 148 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
bers. Such information supplements the Firm™s ongoing operational 
risk measurement and analysis. 
Risk reporting and analysis 
Operational risk management reports provide timely and accurate 

information, including information about actual operational loss levels 

and self-assessment results, to the lines of business and senior man-

agement. The purpose of these reports is to enable management to 

maintain operational risk at appropriate levels within each line of 
business, to escalate issues and to provide consistent data aggrega-
tion across the Firm™s businesses and support areas.  
Audit alignment  
Internal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to 

provide an independent assessment of the design and effectiveness of 

key controls over the Firm™s operations, regulatory compliance and 

reporting. This includes reviewing the operational risk framework, the 

effectiveness of the business self-assessment process, and the loss 

data-collection and reporting activities. 
REPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT      
The Firm™s success depends not only on its prudent management of 

the liquidity, credit, market and operational risks that are part of its 

business risk, but equally on the maintenance among its many 

constituentsŠcustomers and clients, investors, regulators, as well 

as the general publicŠof a reputation for business practices of the 

highest quality. Attention to reputation has always been a key 

aspect of the Firm™s practices, and maintenance of the Firm™s repu-

tation is the responsibility of each individual employee at the Firm. 

JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individual responsibility in many 

ways, including through the Firm™s Code of Conduct, which is 

based on the Firm™s fundamental belief that no one should ever 

sacrifice integrityŠor give the impression that he or she hasŠeven 

if one thinks it would help the Firm™s business. The Code requires 

prompt reporting of any known or suspected violation of the Code, 

any internal Firm policy, or any law or regulation applicable to the 

Firm™s business. It also requires the reporting of any illegal conduct, 

or conduct that violates the underlying principles of the Code, by 

any of our customers, suppliers, contract workers, business partners 

or agents. Concerns may be reported anonymously and the Firm 

prohibits retaliation against employees for the good faith reporting 

of any actual or suspected violations of the Code. 
In addition to training of employees with regard to the principles 
and requirements of the Code, and requiring annual affirmation by 

each employee of compliance with the Code, the Firm has estab-

lished policies and procedures, and has in place various oversight 

functions, intended to promote the Firm™s culture of ﬁdoing the 

right thingﬂ. These include a Conflicts Office which examines 

wholesale transactions with the potential to create conflicts of 

interest for the Firm. In addition, each line of business has a risk 

committee which includes in its mandate oversight of the reputa-
tional risks in its business that may produce significant losses or 

reputational damage. In IB, there is a separate Reputation Risk 

Office and several regional reputation risk committees, members of 

which are senior representatives of businesses and control func-

tions, that focus on transactions that raise reputational issues. Such 

transactions may include, for example, complex derivatives and 

structured finance transactions. The Firm also established this year 

a Consumer Reputational Risk Committee, comprised of senior 

management from the Firm™s Operating Committee, including the 

heads of its primary consumer facing businesses, RFS and CS, 

that helps to ensure that the Firm has a consistent, disciplined 

focus on the review of the impact on consumers of Chase products 

and practices, including any that could raise reputational issues. 
Fiduciary Risk Management 
The Fiduciary Risk Management function works with relevant line of 

business risk committees, with the goal of ensuring that businesses 

providing investment or risk management products or services that 

give rise to fiduciary duties to clients perform at the appropriate 

standard relative to their fiduciary relationship with a client. Of 

particular focus are the policies and practices that address a busi-

ness™ responsibilities to a client, including performance and service 

requirements and expectations;
 client suitability determinations; 
and disclosure obligations and communications. In this way, the 
relevant line of business risk committees, together with the Fiduci-

ary Risk Management function, provide oversight of the Firm™s 

efforts to monitor, measure and control the performance and risks 

that may arise in the delivery of products or services to clients that 

give rise to such fiduciary duties, as well as those stemming from 

any of the Firm™s fiduciary responsibilities under the Firm™s various 

employee benefit plans.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
149
 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM   
JPMorgan Chase™s accounting policies and use of estimates are 
integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm™s most com-

plex accounting estimates require management™s judgment to ascer-

tain the value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established 

detailed policies and control procedures intended to ensure that 

valuation methods, including any judgments made as part of such 

methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied 

consistently from period to period. In addition, the policies and pro-

cedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing meth-

odologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its 

estimates for determining the value of its assets and liabilities are 

appropriate. The following is a brief description of the Firm™s critical 

accounting estimates involving significant valuation judgments.  
Allowance for credit losses 
 JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for credit losses covers the retained 
wholesale and consumer loan portfolios, as well as the Firm™s 

wholesale and consumer lending-related commitments. The allow-

ance for loan losses is intended to adjust the value of the Firm™s 

loan assets to reflect probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio 

as of the balance sheet date. The allowance for lending-related 

commitments is established to cover probable losses in the lending-

related commitments portfolio. For a further discussion of the 

methodologies used in establishing the Firm™s allowance for credit 

losses, see Note 15 on pages 239Œ243 of this Annual Report. 
Wholesale loans and lending-related commitments
  
The methodology for calculating the allowance for loan losses and 

the allowance for lending-related commitments involves significant 

judgment. First and foremost, it involves the early identification of 

credits that are deteriorating. Second, it involves judgment in 

establishing the inputs used to estimate the allowances. Third, it 

involves management judgment to evaluate certain macroeconomic 

factors, underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and 

external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio, 

and to refine loss factors to better reflect these conditions.  
The Firm uses a risk-rating system to determine the credit quality of 
its wholesale loans. Wholesale loans are reviewed for information 

affecting the obligor™s ability to fulfill its obligations. In assessing 

the risk rating of a particular loan, among the factors considered 

are the obligor™s debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of 

the obligor™s earnings, the amount and sources for repayment, the 

level and nature of contingencies, management strength, and the 

industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors 

are based on an evaluation of historical and current information 

and involve subjective assessment and interpretation. Emphasizing 

one factor over another or considering additional factors could 

affect the risk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.  
The Firm applies its judgment to establish loss factors used in calcu-

lating the allowances. Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent, 

verifiable data or the Firm™s own historical loss experience in its 

models for estimating the allowances. Many factors can affect esti-

mates of loss, including volatility of loss given default, probability of 

default and rating migrations. Consideration is given as to whether 

the loss estimates should be calculated as an average over the entire 

credit cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle, as well as to 

which external data should be used and when they should be used. 

Choosing data that are not reflective of the Firm™s specific loan port-

folio characteristics could also affect loss estimates. The application of 

different inputs would change the amount of the allowance for credit 

losses determined appropriate by the Firm.  
Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors 
derived, taking into consideration model imprecision, external 

factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet 

reflected in the loss factors. Historical experience of both loss given 

default and probability of default are considered when estimating 

these adjustments. Factors related to concentrated and deteriorat-

ing industries also are incorporated where relevant. These esti-

mates are based on management™s view of uncertainties that relate 

to current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of un-

derwriting standards and other relevant internal and external 

factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio.  
As noted above, the Firm™s wholesale allowance is sensitive to the 
risk rating assigned to a loan. As of December 31, 2010, assuming a 

one-notch downgrade in the Firm™s internal risk ratings for its entire 

wholesale portfolio, the allowance for loan losses for the wholesale 

portfolio would increase by approximately $1.3 billion. This sensitivity 

analysis is hypothetical. In the Firm™s view, the likelihood of a one-

notch downgrade for all wholesale loans within a short timeframe is 

remote. The purpose of this analysis is to provide an indication of the 

impact of risk ratings on the estimate of the allowance for loan losses 

for wholesale loans. It is not intended to imply management™s expec-

tation of future deterioration in risk ratings. Given the process the 

Firm follows in determining the risk ratings of its loans, management 

believes the risk ratings currently assigned to wholesale loans are 

appropriate.  
Consumer loans and lending-related commitments 
The allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio, including 

credit card, is sensitive to changes in the economic environment, 

delinquency status, the realizable value of collateral, FICO scores, 

borrower behavior and other risk factors, and is intended to represent 

management™s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the 

portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The credit performance of the 

consumer portfolio across the entire consumer credit product spec-

trum has stabilized but high unemployment and weak overall eco-

nomic conditions continue to result in an elevated level of charge-

offs, while weak housing prices continue to negatively affect the 

severity of losses realized on residential real estate loans that default. 

Significant judgment is required to estimate the duration and severity 

 150 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
of the current economic downturn, as well as its potential impact on 
housing prices and the labor market. While the allowance for credit 
losses is highly sensitive to both home prices and unemployment 

rates, in the current market it is difficult to estimate how potential 

changes in one or both of these factors might affect the allowance for 

credit losses. For example, while both factors are important determi-

nants of overall allowance levels, changes in one factor or the other 

may not occur at the same rate, or changes may be directionally 

inconsistent such that improvement in one factor may offset deterio-

ration in the other. In addition, changes in these factors would not 

necessarily be consistent across all geographies or product types. 

Finally, it is difficult to predict the extent to which changes in both or 

either of these factors would ultimately affect the frequency of losses, 

the severity of losses or both; overall loss rates are a function of both 

the frequency and severity of individual loan losses.  
The consumer allowance is calculated by applying statistical loss 
factors and other risk indicators to pools of loans with similar risk 

characteristics to arrive at an estimate of incurred losses in the 

portfolio. Management applies judgment to the statistical loss 

estimates for each loan portfolio category, using delinquency trends 

and other risk characteristics to estimate probable losses inherent 

in the portfolio. Management uses additional statistical methods 
and considers portfolio and collateral valuation trends to review the 

appropriateness of the primary statistical loss estimate. The statisti-

cal calculation is then adjusted to take into consideration model 

imprecision, external factors and current economic events that have 

occurred but are not yet reflected in the factors used to derive the 

statistical calculation; this adjustment is accomplished in part by 

analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product 

segment. In the current economic environment, it is difficult to 

predict whether historical loss experience is indicative of future loss 

levels. Management applies judgment in making this adjustment, 

taking into account uncertainties associated with current macro-

economic and political conditions, quality of underwriting stan-

dards, borrower behavior and other relevant internal and external 

factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio. For junior lien 

products, management considers the delinquency and/or modifica-

tion status of any senior liens in determining the adjustment. The 

application of different inputs into the statistical calculation, and 

the assumptions used by management to adjust the statistical 

calculation, are subject to management judgment, and emphasizing 

one input or assumption over another, or considering other inputs 

or assumptions, could affect the estimate of the allowance for loan 

losses for the consumer credit portfolio. 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
151
 Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commod
ities 
inventories 
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair 

value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are carried at fair 

value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are meas-

ured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including loans ac-

counted for at the lower of cost or fair value that are only subject to 

fair value adjustments under certain circumstances.  
Under U.S. GAAP there is a three-level valuation hierarchy for 
disclosure of fair value measurements. An instrument™s categoriza-

tion within the hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement. Therefore, for instru-

ments classified in levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy, where inputs are 

principally based on observable market data, there is less judgment 

applied in arriving at a fair value measurement. For instruments 

classified within level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments are more sig-

nificant. The Firm reviews and updates the fair value hierarchy 

classifications on a quarterly basis. Changes from one quarter to 

the next related to the observability of inputs to a fair value meas-

urement may result in a reclassification between hierarchy levels. 
Assets measured at fair value
 The following table includes the Firm™s assets measured at fair value and the portion of such assets that are classified within level 3 of the 
valuation hierarchy.
December 31, 
  2010
     
2009 
(in billions, except ratio data) 
Total at fair value Level 3 total Total at fair value     Level 3 total
Trading debt and equity instruments
(a)
   $     409.4   $   33.9 
 $     330.9 
$   35.2
Derivative receivables Œ gross 
  1,529.4
   35.3
   1,565.5 
46.7
Netting adjustment  
 (1,448.9)
    Š    (1,485.3) 
ŠDerivative receivables Œ net 
  80.5   35.3
(d)
   80.2 
46.7
(d)
 AFS securities 
  316.3
    14.3 
   360.4 
13.2 
Loans  
  2.0
   1.5
   1.4 
1.0 
MSRs 
  13.6
    13.6 
   15.5 
15.5 
Private equity investments 
  8.7
   7.9
   7.3 
6.6 
Other
(b)
   43.8    4.1  
  44.4 
9.5 
Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
   874.3
   110.6
   840.1 
127.7 
Total assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
(c)
   10.1    4.2  
  8.2 
2.7 
Total assets measured at fair value  
  $     884.4   $ 114.8
(e)
  $     848.3 
$ 130.4
(e)
 Total Firm assets 
   $  2,117.6
   $  2,032.0 
 Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm assets 
   5%
  6% 
Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm assets at fair value 
   13
  15 
(a) Includes physical commodities generally carried at the lower of cost or fair value. 
(b) Includes certain securities purchased under resale agreements, securities borrowed, accrued interest receivable and other investments. 

(c) Predominantly includes mortgage, home equity and other loans, where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, and on credit card and 
leveraged lending loans carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the lower of cost or fair value. 
(d) Derivative receivable and derivative payable balances, and the related cash collateral received and paid, are presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets where there is 
a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place with counterparties. For purposes of the table above, the Firm does not reduce level 3 derivative receivable balances 
for netting adjustments, as such an adjustment is not relevant to a presentation that is based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation. Therefore, the derivative balances 
reported in the fair value hierarchy levels are gross of any counterparty netting adjustments. However, if the Firm were to net such balances within level 3, the reduction in the 
level 3 derivative receivable and payable balances would be $12.7 billion and $16.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, exclusive of the netting benefit as-

sociated with cash collateral, which would further reduce the level 3 balances. 
(e) At December 31, 2010 and 2009, included $66.0 billion and $80.0 billion, respectively, of level 3 assets, consisting of recurring and nonrecurring assets carried by IB.  

 152 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Valuation 
The Firm has an established and well-documented process for 
determining fair value. Fair value is based on quoted market prices, 

where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair 

value is based on internally developed models that primarily use as 

inputs market-based or independently sourced market parameters. 

The Firm™s process is intended to ensure that all applicable inputs 

are appropriately calibrated to market data, including but not 

limited to yield curves, interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt 

prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. In addition to 

market information, models also incorporate transaction details, 

such as maturity. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure 

that financial instruments are recorded at fair value. These adjust-

ments include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality, the 

Firm™s creditworthiness, constraints on liquidity and unobservable 

parameters that are applied consistently over time.  
For instruments classified within level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments 
used to estimate fair value may be significant. In arriving at an 

estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3, management 

must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, due to 

the lack of observability of significant inputs, management must 

assess all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs Œ 

including, but not limited to, yield curves, interest rates, volatilities, 

equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. In 

addition to market information, models also incorporate transaction 

details, such as maturity. Finally, management judgment must be 

applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to 

reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm™s creditworthiness, 

constraints on liquidity and unobservable parameters, where rele-

vant. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of 

product and its specific contractual terms, and the level of liquidity 

for the product or within the market as a whole. The Firm has 

numerous controls in place to ensure that its valuations are appro-

priate. An independent model review group reviews the Firm™s 

valuation models and approves them for use for specific products. 

All valuation models of the Firm are subject to this review process. 

A price verification group, independent from the risk-taking func-

tions, ensures observable market prices and market-based parame-

ters are used for valuation whenever possible. For those products 

with material parameter risk for which observable market levels do 

not exist, an independent review of the assumptions made on 

pricing is performed. Additional review includes deconstruction of 

the model valuations for certain structured instruments into their 

components; benchmarking valuations, where possible, to similar 

products; validating valuation estimates through actual cash set-

tlement; and detailed review and explanation of recorded gains and 

losses, which are analyzed daily and over time. Valuation adjust-

ments, which are also determined by the independent price verifica-

tion group, are based on established policies and applied 

consistently over time. Any changes to the valuation methodology 

are reviewed by management to confirm the changes are justified. 

As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain prod-

ucts becomes more transparent, the Firm continues to refine its 

valuation methodologies. During 2010, no changes were made to 
the Firm™s valuation models that had, or are expected to have, a 

material impact on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or 

results of operations. 
Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs can affect the 
amount of revenue or loss recorded for a particular position. Fur-

thermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods are appro-

priate and consistent with those of other market participants, the 

use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair 

value of certain financial instruments could result in a different 

estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discus-

sion of the determination of fair value for individual financial in-

struments, see Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this Annual Report. 
Purchased credit-impaired loans  
In connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan 

Chase acquired certain loans with evidence of deterioration of 

credit quality since origination and for which it was probable, at 

acquisition, that the Firm would be unable to collect all contrac-

tually required payments receivable. These loans are considered 

to be purchased credit-impaired (ﬁPCIﬂ) loans and are accounted 

for as described in Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual 

Report. The application of the accounting guidance for PCI loans 

requires a number of significant estimates and judgment, such as 

determining: (i) which loans are within the scope of PCI account-

ing guidance, (ii) the fair value of the PCI loans at acquisition, (iii) 

how loans are aggregated to apply the guidance on accounting 

for pools of loans, and (iv) estimates of cash flows to be collected 

over the term of the loans.  
Determining which loans are in the scope of PCI accounting guidance 
is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. In the Washing-

ton Mutual transaction, consumer loans with certain attributes (e.g., 

higher loan-to-value ratios, borrowers with lower FICO scores, delin-

quencies) were determined to be credit-impaired, provided that those 

attributes arose subsequent to the loans™ origination dates. A whole-

sale loan was determined to be credit-impaired if it was risk-rated 

such that it would otherwise have required an asset-specific allow-

ance for loan losses.  
At the acquisition date, the Firm recorded its PCI loans at fair value, 
which included an estimate of losses that were then expected to be 

incurred over the estimated remaining lives of the loans. The Firm 

estimated the fair value of its PCI loans at the acquisition date by 

discounting the cash flows expected to be collected at a market-

observable discount rate, when available, adjusted for factors that 

a market participant would consider in determining fair value. The 

initial estimate of cash flows to be collected was derived from 

assumptions such as default rates, loss severities and the amount 

and timing of prepayments. 
The PCI accounting guidance states that investors may aggregate 
loans into pools that have common risk characteristics and 

thereby use a composite interest rate and estimate of cash flows 

expected to be collected for the pools. The pools then become 

the unit of accounting and are considered one loan for purposes 

of accounting for these loans at and subsequent to acquisition. 

Once a pool is assembled, the integrity of the pool must be 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
153
 maintained. The Firm has aggregated substantially al
l of the PCI 
loans identified in the Washington Mutual transaction (i.e., the 
residential real estate loans) into pools with common risk charac-

teristics. Significant judgment is required to determine whether 

individual loans have common risk characteristics for purposes of 

establishing pools of loans.  
The Firm™s estimate of cash flows expected to be collected must be 
updated each reporting period based on updated assumptions 

regarding default rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of 

prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current and 

expected future market conditions. These estimates are dependent 

on assumptions regarding the level of future home price declines, 

and the duration and severity of the current economic downturn, 

among other factors. These estimates and assumptions require 

significant management judgment and certain assumptions are 

highly subjective. These estimates of cash flows expected to be 

collected may have a significant impact on the recognition of im-

pairment losses and/or interest income. As of December 31, 2010, a 

1% decrease in expected future principal cash payments for the entire 

portfolio of purchased credit-impaired loans would result in the 

recognition of an allowance for loan losses for these loans of ap-

proximately $670 million. 
Goodwill impairment 
Under U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units 

and tested for impairment at least annually. The Firm™s process and 

methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing is de-

scribed in Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of this Annual Report.  
Management applies significant judgment when estimating the fair 
value of its reporting units. Estimates of fair value are dependent 

upon estimates of (a) the future earnings potential of the Firm™s 

reporting units, including the estimated effects of regulatory and 

legislative changes, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, the CARD Act, and 

limitations on non-sufficient funds and overdraft fees and (b) the 

relevant cost of equity and long-term growth rates. Imprecision in 

estimating these factors can affect the estimated fair value of the 

reporting units. The fair values of a significant majority of the Firm™s 

reporting units exceeded their carrying values by substantial 

amounts (fair value as a percent of carrying value ranged from 

120% to 380%) and did not indicate a significant risk of goodwill 

impairment based on current projections and valuations. 
However, the fair value of the Firm™s consumer lending businesses 
in RFS and CS each exceeded their carrying values by approximately 

25% and 7%, respectively, and the associated goodwill remains at 
an elevated risk of impairment due to their exposure to U.S. con-

sumer credit risk and the effects of regulatory and legislative 

changes. The assumptions used in the valuation of these businesses 

include (a) estimates of future cash flows (which are dependent on 

portfolio outstanding balances, net interest margin, operating 

expense, credit losses, and the amount of capital necessary given 

the risk of business activities to meet regulatory capital require-

ments), (b) the cost of equity used to discount those cash flows to a 

present value. Each of these factors requires significant judgment 

and the assumptions used are based on management™s best and 

most current projections, including those derived from the Firm™s 

business forecasting process reviewed with senior management. 

These projections are consistent with the short-term assumptions 

discussed in Business Outlook on pages 57Œ58 of this Form 10-K 

and, in the longer term, incorporate a set of macroeconomic as-

sumptions (for example, allowing for relatively high but gradually 

declining unemployment rates for the next few years) and the 

Firm™s best estimates of long-term growth and returns of its busi-

nesses. Where possible, the Firm uses third-party and peer data to 

benchmark its assumptions and estimates. The cost of equity used 

in the discounted cash flow model reflected the estimated risk and 

uncertainty in these businesses and was evaluated in comparison 

with relevant market peers.  
The Firm did not recognize goodwill impairment as of December 
31, 2010, or at anytime during 2010, based on management™s best 

estimates. However, deterioration in economic market conditions, 

increased estimates of the effects of recent regulatory or legislative 

changes, or additional regulatory or legislative changes may result 

in declines in projected business performance beyond manage-

ment™s current expectations. For example, in CS such declines could 

result from deterioration in economic conditions, such as: increased 

unemployment claims or bankruptcy filings that result in increased 

credit losses, changes in customer behavior that cause decreased 

account activity or receivables balances, or unanticipated effects of 

regulatory or legislative changes. In RFS, such declines could result 

from deterioration in economic conditions that result in increased 

credit losses, including decreases in home prices beyond manage-

ment™s current expectations; or loan repurchase costs that signifi-

cantly exceed management™s current expectations. Such declines in 

business performance, or increases in the estimated cost of equity, 

could cause the estimated fair values of the Firm™s reporting units 

or their associated goodwill to decline, which could result in a 

material impairment charge to earnings in a future period related to 

some portion of the associated goodwill.
 
 154 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Income taxes 
JPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the various 
jurisdictions in which it operates, including U.S. federal, state and 

local and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws are often complex and 

may be subject to different interpretations. To determine the finan-

cial statement impact of accounting for income taxes, including the 

provision for income tax expense and unrecognized tax benefits, 

JPMorgan Chase must make assumptions and judgments about 

how to interpret and apply these complex tax laws to numerous 

transactions and business events, as well as make judgments 

regarding the timing of when certain items may affect taxable 

income in the U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.  
JPMorgan Chase™s interpretations of tax laws around the world are 
subject to review and examination by the various taxing authorities in 

the jurisdictions where the Firm operates, and disputes may occur 

regarding its view on a tax position. These disputes over interpreta-

tions with the various taxing authorities may be settled by audit, 

administrative appeals or adjudication in the court systems of the tax 

jurisdictions in which the Firm operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly 

reviews whether it may be assessed additional income taxes as a 

result of the resolution of these matters, and the Firm records addi-

tional reserves as appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise its 

estimate of income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, legal 

interpretations and tax planning strategies. It is possible that revisions 

in the Firm™s estimate of income taxes may materially affect the Firm™s 

results of operations in any
 reporting period.
 The Firm™s provision for income taxes is composed of current and 
deferred taxes. Deferred taxes arise from differences between assets 

and liabilities measured for financial reporting versus income tax 

return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in manage-
ment™s judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely 

than not. The Firm has also recognized deferred tax assets in con-

nection with certain net operating losses. The Firm performs regular 

reviews to ascertain whether deferred tax assets are realizable. 

These reviews include management™s estimates and assumptions 

regarding future taxable income, which also incorporates various 

tax planning strategies, including strategies that may be available 

to utilize net operating losses before they expire. In connection with 

these reviews, if it is determined that a deferred tax asset is not 

realizable, a valuation allowance is established
. The valuation 
al
lowance may be reversed in a subsequent reporting period if the 
Firm determines that, based on revised estimates of future taxable 

income or changes in tax planning strategies, it is more likely than 

not that all or part of the deferred tax asset will become realizable. 

As of December 31, 2010, management has determined it
 is more 
likely than not that the Firm will realize its deferred tax assets, net 

of the existing valuation allowance. 
The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary when 
additional information becomes available. 
Uncertain tax positions 

th
at meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are meas-
ured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain 

tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that 

management believes is more likely than not to be realized upon 

settlement.
 It is possible that the reassessment of JPMorgan 

Ch
ase™s unrecognized tax benefits may have a material impact on 
its effective tax rate in the period in which the reassessment occurs. 
For additional information on income taxes, see Note 27 on pages 
271-273 of this Annual Report. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
155
 ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS  
Accounting for transfers of financial assets and  
consolidation of variable interest entities 

Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm implemented new accounting 

guidance that amends the accounting for the transfers of financial 

assets and the consolidation of VIEs. Upon adoption of the new 

guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card securi-

tization trusts, Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, and certain 

mortgage and other consumer loan securitization entities. The Finan-

cial Accounting Standards Board (ﬁFASBﬂ) deferred the requirements 

of the new accounting guidance for VIEs for certain investment funds, 

including mutual funds, private equity funds and hedge funds, until 

the FASB reconsiders the appropriate accounting guidance for these 

funds.  For additional information about the impact of the adoption 

of the new accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, see Note 16 on 

pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
Fair value measurements and disclosures  
In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance that requires new 

disclosures, and clarifies existing disclosure requirements, about fair 

value measurements. The clarifications and the requirement to 

separately disclose transfers of instruments between level 1 and 

level 2 of the fair value hierarchy are effective for interim reporting 

periods beginning after December 15, 2009; the Firm adopted this 

guidance in the first quarter of 2010. For additional information 

about the impact of the adoption of the new fair value measure-

ments guidance, see Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this Annual 

Report.  In addition, a new requirement to provide purchases, sales, 

issuances and settlements in the level 3 rollforward on a gross basis 

is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010.  
Subsequent events  
In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance that established general 

standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur 

after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are 

issued or are available to be issued. The guidance was effective for 

interim or annual financial periods ending after June 15, 2009. In 

February 2010, the FASB amended the guidance by eliminating the 

requirement for SEC filers to disclose the date through which it 

evaluated subsequent events. The Firm adopted the amended 

guidance in the first quarter of 2010. The application of the guid-

ance had no effect on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or 

results of operations.  
Accounting for certain embedded credit derivatives  

In March 2010, the FASB issued guidance clarifying the circum-

stances in which a credit derivative embedded in beneficial interests 

in securitized financial assets is required to be separately accounted 

for as a derivative instrument. The guidance is effective for the first 

fiscal quarter beginning after June 15, 2010, with early adoption 

permitted. Upon adoption, the new guidance permits the election 

of the fair value option for beneficial interests in securitized finan-

cial assets. The Firm adopted the new guidance prospectively, 

effective July 1, 2010. The adoption of the guidance did not have a 

material impact on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or 

results of operations. For additional information about the impact 

of the adoption of the new guidance, see Note 6 on pages 191Œ

199 of this Annual Report.  
Accounting for troubled debt restructurings of purchased 
credit-impaired loans that are part of a pool  

In April 2010, the FASB issued guidance that amends the account-

ing for troubled debt restructurings (ﬁTDRsﬂ) of PCI loans ac-

counted for within a pool. The guidance clarifies that modified PCI 

loans should not be removed from a pool even if the modification 

would otherwise be considered a TDR. Additionally, the guidance 

clarifies that the impact of modifications should be included in 

evaluating whether a pool of loans is impaired. The guidance was 

effective for the Firm beginning in the third quarter of 2010, and is 

to be applied prospectively. The guidance is consistent with the 

Firm™s previously existing accounting practice and, therefore, had 

no impact on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of 

operations.  
Disclosures about the credit quality of financing  
receivables and the allowance for credit losses  

In July 2010, the FASB issued guidance that requires enhanced 

disclosures surrounding the credit characteristics of the Firm™s 

loan portfolio. Under the new guidance, the Firm is required to 

disclose its accounting policies, the methods it uses to determine 

the components of the allowance for credit losses, and qualitative 

and quantitative information about the credit risk inherent in the 

loan portfolio, including additional information on certain types 

of loan modifications. For the Firm, the new disclosures became 

effective for the 2010 Annual Report. For additional information, 

see Notes 14 and 15 on pages 220Œ243 of this Annual Report. 

The adoption of this guidance only affects JPMorgan Chase™s 

disclosures of financing receivables and not its Consolidated 

Balance Sheets or results of operations. In January 2011, the 

FASB issued guidance that deferred the effective date of certain 

disclosures in this guidance regarding TDRs, pending resolution 

on the FASB™s project to amend the scope of TDR guidance
.   
 
 156 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
NONEXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AT FAIR VALUE 
In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades nonex-
change-traded commodity derivative contracts. To determine the 

fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses various fair value esti-

mation techniques, primarily based on internal models with signifi-

cant observable market parameters. The Firm™s nonexchange-

traded commodity derivative contracts are primarily energy-related.  
The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonex-
change-traded commodity derivative contracts for the year ended 

December 31, 2010. 

 For the year ended 
 December 31, 2010  
(in millions) 
  Asset position    Liability position 
Net fair value of contracts ou
tstanding 
 at January 1, 2010 
 $ 5,027 
 $ 1,737 
Effect of legally enforc
eable master netting 
agreements 
  25,282 
  26,490 
Gross fair value of contracts 
 outstanding at January 1, 2010
   30,309 
  28,227 
Contracts realized or otherwise settled 
   (18,309)
   (17
,232
) Fair value of new co
ntracts
   24,294
   23,194
 Changes in fair values attribu
table to 
 changes in valuation techniques and  
assumptions  
  Š 
  Š 
Other changes 
in fair value
   13,156
   14,
914
 Gross fair value of contracts 
 outstanding at December 31, 2010
   49,450 
  49,103 
Effect of legally enforc
eable master netting 
agreements 
  (41,284) 
  (41,919) 
Net fair value of contracts 
 outstanding at December 31, 2010
  $ 8,166 
 $ 7,184 
 The following table indicates the maturities of nonexchange-traded 
commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2010.
 December 31, 20
10
 (in millions)
  Asset pos
ition
 Liability position
 Maturity less than 1 year
  $ 22,71
3  $ 19
,40
2 Maturity 1
Œ3 years
   16,6
89
   16,074
 Maturity 4
Œ5 years
   8,500
   7,840
 Maturity in excess of 5 years
   1,548
   5,787
 Gross fair value of contracts 
 outstanding at December 31, 2010
   49,450   49,103
 Effect of legally enforceable master 
 netting agreements 
  (41,284)
   (41,919) 
Net fair value of contracts 
 outstanding at December 31, 2010
  $ 8,166  $ 7,184
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
  
157
 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  
From time to time, the Firm has made and will make forward-looking 
statements. These statements can be identified by the fact that they 

do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking 

statements often use words such as ﬁanticipate,ﬂ ﬁtarget,ﬂ ﬁexpect,ﬂ 

ﬁestimate,ﬂ ﬁintend,ﬂ ﬁplan,ﬂ ﬁgoal,ﬂ ﬁbelieve,ﬂ or other words of 

similar meaning. Forward-looking statements provide JPMorgan 

Chase™s current expectations or forecasts of future events, circum-

stances, results or aspirations. JPMorgan Chase™s disclosures in this 

Annual Report contain forward-looking statements within the mean-

ing of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm 

also may make forward-looking statements in its other documents 

filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In 

addition, the Firm™s senior management may make forward-looking 

statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives of the media 

and others. 
All forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to risks 
and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Firm™s control. 

JPMorgan Chase™s actual future results may differ materially from 

those set forth in its forward-looking statements. While there is no 

assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is 

complete, below are certain factors which could cause actual results 

to differ from those in the forward-looking statements:  
· local, regional and international business, economic and political 
conditions and geopolitical events; 
· changes in laws and regulatory requirements, including as a result 

of the newly-enacted financial services legislation; 
· changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; 
· securities and capital markets behavior, including changes in 

market liquidity and volatility; 
· changes in investor sentiment or consumer spending or savings 

behavior; 
· ability of the Firm to manage effectively its liquidity; 
· changes in credit ratings assigned to the Firm or its subsidiaries; 
· damage to the Firm™s reputation; 
· ability of the Firm to deal effectively with an economic slowdown 

or other economic or market disruption; 
· technology changes instituted by the Firm, its counterparties or 

competitors; 
· mergers and acquisitions, including the Firm™s ability to integrate 

acquisitions; 
· ability of the Firm to develop new products and services, and the 

extent to which products or services previously sold by the Firm 

require the Firm to incur liabilities or absorb losses not contem-

plated at their initiation or origination; 
· acceptance of the Firm™s new and existing products and services 

by the marketplace and the ability of the Firm to increase market 

share;  
· ability of the Firm to attract and retain employees; 
· ability of the Firm to control expense; 
· competitive pressures; 
· changes in the credit quality of the Firm™s customers and  

counterparties; 
· adequacy of the Firm™s risk management framework; 
· adverse judicial or regulatory proceedings; 
· changes in applicable accounting policies; 
· ability of the Firm to determine accurate values of certain assets 

and liabilities; 
· occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or calamities or 

conflicts, including any effect of any such disasters, calamities or 

conflicts on the Firm™s power generation facilities and the Firm™s 

other commodity-related activities; 
· the other risks and uncertainties detailed in Part 1, Item 1A: Risk 

Factors in the Firm™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 

ended December 31, 2010. 
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm 

speak only as of the date they are made, and JPMorgan Chase does 

not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the 

impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the for-

ward-looking statements were made. The reader should, however, 

consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm 

may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quar-

terly Reports on Form 10-Q, or Current Reports on Form 8-K. 
    
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 158
Management of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂ or the 
ﬁFirmﬂ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 

internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over finan-

cial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, 

the Firm™s principal executive and principal financial officers, or 

persons performing similar functions, and effected by JPMorgan 

Chase™s Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to 

provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 

reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 

purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally  

accepted in the United States of America.  
JPMorgan Chase™s internal control over financial reporting includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 

of records, that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 

the transactions and dispositions of the Firm™s assets; (2) provide 

reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 

permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 

generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 

expenditures of the Firm are being made only in accordance with 

authorizations of JPMorgan Chase™s management and directors; 

and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 

timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of 

the Firm™s assets that could have a material effect on the financial 

statements.  
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial 
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projec-

tions of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject 

to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of 

changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 

policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
  
 Management has completed an assessment of the effecti
veness of 
the Firm™s internal control over financial reporting as of December 
31, 2010. In making the assessment, management used the 

framework in ﬁInternal Control Œ Integrated Frameworkﬂ promul-

gated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Tread-

way Commission, commonly referred to as the ﬁCOSOﬂ criteria.  
Based upon the assessment performed, management concluded 
that as of December 31, 2010, JPMorgan Chase™s internal control 

over financial reporting was effective based upon the COSO criteria. 

Additionally, based upon management™s assessment, the Firm 

determined that there were no material weaknesses in its internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010.  
The effectiveness of the Firm™s internal control over financial 
reporting as of December 31, 2010, has been audited by 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public 

accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.  
  
 
 
 
 
 James Dimon 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
   Douglas L. Braunstein 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  February 28, 2011 
    
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
  159
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of JPMorgan 

Chase & Co.: 
 In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and 

the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stock-

holders™ equity and comprehensive income and cash flows present 

fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of JPMorgan 

Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries (the ﬁFirmﬂ) at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash 

flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 

2010, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted 

in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Firm 

maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over 

financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria 

established in 
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
 issued by 
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Com-

mission (COSO). The Firm's management is responsible for these 

financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over 

financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of 

internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompany-

ing ﬁManagement's report on internal control over financial report-

ing.ﬂ Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial 

statements and on the Firm's internal control over financial report-

ing based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in 

accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting 

Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we 

plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about 

whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement 

and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 

maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial 

statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence support-

ing the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assess-

ing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made 

by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement 

presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting 

included obtaining an understanding of internal control over finan-

cial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 

and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 

of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also 

included performing such other procedures as we considered nec-

essary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a 

reasonable basis for our opinions. 
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process 

designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 

financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for 

external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 

principles. A company™s internal control over financial reporting 

includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the mainte-

nance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 

reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the com-

pany; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are re-

corded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 

accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that 

receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in 

accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the 

company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding preven-

tion or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposi-

tion of the company™s assets that could have a material effect on the 

financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial 
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections 

of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the 

risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in 

conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 

procedures may deteriorate. 
 February 28, 2011 
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Ł 300 Madison Avenue Ł New York, NY 10017 
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 160
 Year ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data)
  2010 
 2009 
2008 
Revenue 
    
Investment banking fees 
 $     6,190
   $    7,087 $   5,526
  Principal transactions 
  10,894
   9,796 
(10,699
 ) 
Lending- and deposit-related fees 
  6,340
   7,045 
5,088
  Asset management, administration and commissions 
  13,499
   12,540 
13,943
  Securities gains
(a)
   2,965
   1,110 
1,560
  Mortgage fees and related income 
  3,870
   3,678 
3,467
  Credit card income 
  5,891
   7,110 
7,419
  Other income 
  2,044
   916 
2,169
  Noninterest revenue 
   51,693
   49,282 
28,473
  Interest income 
  63,782
   66,350 
73,018
  Interest expense 
  12,781
   15,198 
34,239
  Net interest income
   51,001
   51,152 
38,779
  Total net revenue
  
  102,694
   100,434 
67,252
  Provision for credit losses 
  16,639
   32,015 
20,979
  Noninterest expense
     Compensation expense 
  28,124
   26,928 
22,746
  Occupancy expense 
  3,681
   3,666 
3,038
  Technology, communications and equipment expense 
  4,684
   4,624 
4,315
  Professional and outside services 
  6,767
   6,232 
6,053
  Marketing 
  2,446
   1,777 
1,913
  Other expense 
  14,558
   7,594 
3,740
  Amortization of intangibles 
  936
   1,050 
1,263
  Merger costs 
  Š
   481 
432
  Total noninterest expense
  
  61,196
   52,352 
43,500
  Income before income tax expense/(benefit) and extraordinary gain
   24,859
   16,067 
2,773
  Income tax expense/(benefit) 
  7,489
   4,415 
(926
 ) 
Income before extraordinary gain 
  17,370
   11,652 
3,699
  Extraordinary gain 
  Š
   76 
1,906
  Net income 
  $   17,370
   $  11,728 $   5,605
  Net income applicable to common stockholders
  $     15,764
   $    8,774 $   4,742
  Per common share data
     Basic earnings per share
     Income before extraordinary gain  
 $      3.98
   $     2.25  $     0.81
  Net income  
  3.98
   2.27  1.35
  Diluted earnings per share
     Income before extraordinary gain 
  3.96
   2.24  0.81
  Net income  
  3.96
   2.26  1.35
  Weighted-average basic shares  
  3,956
   3,863 
3,501
  Weighted
-average diluted shares
   3,977
   3,880 
3,522
  Cash dividends declared per common share
  $      0.20
   $     0.20  $     1.52
   (a)
 The following other-than-temporary impairment losses are included in securities gains for the periods presented. 
Year ended December 31,(in millions) 
 2010 
 2009
  Total other-than-temporary impairment losses 
 $     (94)
  $     (946) 
Losses recorded in/(reclassified from) other comprehensive income 
  (6)
   368 
 Total credit losses recognized in income 
 $ (100)
  $ (578) 
  The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
˘
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
  161
 December 31, (in millions, except share data) 
 2010 
 2009
  Assets  
   
Cash and due from banks 
 $  27,567
   $      26,206
  Deposits with banks 
  21,673
   63,230
  Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements (included 
$20,299
 and $20,536 at fair value)  
  222,554
   195,404
  Securities borrowed (included 
$13,961
 and $7,032 at fair value) 
  123,587
   119,630
  Trading assets (included assets pledged of 
$73,056
 and $38,315) 
  489,892
   411,128
  Securities (included 
$316,318
 and $360,365 at fair value and assets pledged of 
$86,891
 and $140,631)  
  316,336
   360,390
  Loans (included 
$1,976
 and $1,364 at fair value) 
  692,927
   633,458
  Allowance for loan losses  
  (32,266)
   (31,602
 ) 
Loans, net of allowance for loan losses 
  660,661
   601,856
  Accrued interest and accounts receivable (included 
zero
 and $5,012 at fair value) 
  70,147
   67,427
  Premises and equipment 
  13,355
   11,118
  Goodwill 
  48,854
   48,357
  Mortgage servicing rights 
  13,649
   15,531
  Other intangible assets 
  4,039
   4,621
  Other assets (included 
$18,201
 and $19,165 at fair value and assets pledged of 
$1,485
 and $1,762) 
  105,291
   107,091
  Total assets
(a)
  $  2,117,605
   $ 2,031,989
  Liabilities
    Deposits (included 
$4,369
 and $4,455 at fair value) 
 $     930,369
   $    938,367
  Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements (included 
$4,060
 and $3,396 at 
fair value) 
  276,644
   261,413
  Commercial paper   
  35,363
   41,794
  Other borrowed funds (included 
$9,931
 and $5,637 at fair value) 
  57,309
   55,740
  Trading liabilities 
  146,166
   125,071
  Accounts payable and other liabilities (included the allowance for lending-related commitments of 
$717
 and $939 
and 
$236
 and $357 at fair value) 
  170,330
   162,696
  Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities (included 
$1,495
 and $1,410 at fair value) 
  77,649
   15,225
  Long-term debt (included 
$38,839
 and $48,972 at fair value) 
  247,669
   266,318
  Total liabilities
(a)
   1,941,499
   1,866,624
  Commitments and contingencies (see Note
 31 on pages 280Œ281 of this Annual Report) 
   Stockholders™ equity
    Preferred stock ($1 par value; authorized 200,000,000 shares; issued 
780,000
 and 2,538,107 shares) 
  7,800
   8,152
  Common stock ($1 par value; authorized 9,000,000,000 shares; issued 
4,104,933,895
 shares) 
  4,105
   4,105
  Capital surplus 
  97,415
   97,982
  Retained earnings 
  73,998
   62,481
  Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) 
  1,001
   (91
 ) 
Shares held in RSU Trust, at cost (
1,192,712
 shares and 1,526,944 shares) 
  (53)
   (68
 ) 
Treasury stock, at cost (
194,639,785
 shares and 162,974,783 shares) 
  (8,160)
   (7,196
 ) 
Total stockholders™ equity
   176,106
   165,365
  Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity
  $  2,117,605
   $ 2,031,989
  (a)
 The following table presents information on assets and liabilities related to VIEs that are consolidated by the Firm at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The difference 
between total VIE assets and liabilities represents the Firm™s interests in those entities, which were eliminated in consolidation. 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2010   
 2009
 Assets
   Trading assets 
 $     
9,837
  $ 
6,347
 Loans  
  95,587
    13,0
04
 All other assets 
  3,494
    
5,043
 Total assets
  $ 108,918
   $ 
24,394
 Liabilities
    Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities 
 $  
 77,649
   $ 
15,225
 All other liabilities 
  1,922
    
2,197
 Total liabilities
  $   
79
,571
   $ 
17,422
 The assets of the consolidated VIEs are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The holders of the beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of 
JPMorgan Chase. At December 31, 2010, the Firm provided limited program-wide credit enhancement of $2.0 billion related to its Firm-administered multi-seller conduits. 
For further discussion, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
 The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
 ˘ˇ˘ˆ˙
˘
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 162
 Year ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data) 
             2010 
                       2009                      2008
  Preferred stock
     Balance at January 1 
 $ 8,152
  $ 31,939  $ Š 
Issuance of preferred stock
   Š   Š   31,550
 Issuance of preferred stock 
Œ conversion of the Bear Stearns preferred stock
   Š   Š   352
 Accretion of preferred stock discount on issuance to the U.S. Treasury 
  Š
   1,213   37 
Redemption of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury
   Š   (25,000)
   Š Redemption of 
other 
preferred stock
   (352)
   Š   Š Balance at December 31
   7,800
   8,152
   31,939
 Common stock
   
   Balance at January 1
   4,105
   3,942
   3,658
 Issuance of common stock
   Š   163
   284
 Balance at December 31
   4,105
   4,105
   3,942
 Capital surplus
    Balance at January 1
   97,982
   92,143
   78,597
 Issuance of common stock
   Š   5,593
   11,201
 Warrant issued to U.S. Treasury in connection with issuance of preferred stock 
  Š
   Š   1,250 
Preferred stoc
k issue cost
   Š   Š   (54
) Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock for employee stock
-based 
         compensation awards and related tax effects 
  706
   474   859 
Net change from the Bear Stearns merger:
        
Reissuance of treasury s
tock and the Share Exchange agreement
   Š   Š   48
    Employee stock awards 
  Š
   Š   242 
Other
   (1,273)
   (228)
   Š Balance at December 31
   97,415
   97,982
   92,143
 Retained earnings
    Balance at January 1 
  62,481
   54,013   54,715 
Cumulat
ive effect of change
s in accounting principles
   (4,376)
   Š   Š Net income
   17,370
   11,728
   5,605
 Dividends declared: 
  
   
   
Preferred stock 
   (642)
   (1,328)
   (674
) Accelerated amortization from redemption of preferred stock issued to the U
.S. Treasury
  Š   (1,112)
   Š Common stock (
$0.20
, $0.20 and $1.52 per share for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
      
  (835)
   (820) 
(5,633) 
Balance at December 31
  73,998 
  62,481 
  54,013
 Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)
    Bal
ance at January 1
   (91)
   (5,687)
   (917
) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 
  (144)
   Š   Š 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
   1,236
   5,596
   (4,770
) Balance at December 31
   1,001
   (91)
   (5,687
) Shares held in RSU Trust
    Balance at January 1 
  (68)
   (217)   Š 
Resulting from the Bear Stearns merger
   Š   Š   (269
) Reissuance from RSU Trust
   15
   149
   52
 Balance at December 31
   (53)
   (68)
   (217
) Treasury stock, at cost
    Balance at January 1
   (7,196)
   (9,249)
   (12,832
) Purchase of treasury stock
   (2,999)
   Š   Š Reissuance from treasury stock 
  2,040
   2,079   2,454 
Share repurchases related to employee stock
-based compensation awards
   (5)
   (26)
   (21
) Net change from the Bear Stearns merger as a result of the reissuance of treasury 
stock and the Share Exchange agreement 
  Š
   Š   1,150 
Balance at December 31 
   (8,160) 
  (7,196) 
  (9,249
) Total stockholders™ equity
  $ 176,106
  $ 165,365
  $ 166,884
 Comprehensive income
    Net income
  $ 17,370
  $ 11,728
  $ 5,605
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 
  1,236
   5,596   (4,770) 
Comprehensive income
  $ 18,606
  $ 17,324
  $ 835
 The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
˘˝
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
  163
 Note:  Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated noncash assets and liabilities 
of $87.7 billion and $92.2 billion, respectively. 
 In 2008, the fair values of noncash assets acquired and liabilities assumed in: (1) the merger with Bear Stearns were $288.2 billion and $287.7 billion, respectively 
(approximately 26 million shares of common stock valued at approximately $1.2 billion were issued in connection with the Bear Stearns merger); and (2) the Wash-
ington Mutual transaction were $260.3 billion and $260.1 billion, respectively.
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
  2010 
       2009          2008 
Operating activities
     
Net income 
 $   
17,370
  $   11,728  $        5,605 
Adjustments to reconcile net
 income to net cash 
(used in)/
provided by
 operating activities:
          Provision for credit losses 
16,639
 32,015 
20,979
       Depreciation and amortization 
4,029
 3,308 
3,265
       Amortization of intangibles 
936
 1,050 
1,263
       Deferred tax benefit 
(968
) (3,622) 
(2,637
 ) 
      Investment securities gains  
(2,965)
 (1,110) 
(1,560
 ) 
      Proceeds on sale of investment 
Š Š (1,540
 ) 
      Stock-based compensation 
3,251
 3,355 
2,637
 Originations and purchases of loans held-for-sale 
(37,085)
 (22,417) (34,902
 ) 
Proceeds from sales, securitizations and paydowns of loans held-for-sale 
40,155
 33,902 
38,036
 Net change in:
          Trading assets 
(72,082
) 133,488 
(12,787
 ) 
      Securities borrowed 
(3,926)
 4,452 
15,408
        Accrued interest and accounts receivable 
443
 (6,312) 
10,221
        Other assets 
(12,
45
2) 32,557 
(32,919
 ) 
      Trading liabilities 
19,3
44
 (79,314) 
24,061
       Accounts payable and other liabilities 
17,
325 (26,450) 
1,012
 Other operating adjustments 
6,
234
 6,167 
(12,212
 ) 
Net cash 
(used in)
/provided by
 operating activities
 (3,752
) 122,797 
23,930
  Investing activities
    Net change in:
          Deposits with banks 
41,625
 74,829 (118,929
 ) 
      Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 
(26,957)
 7,082 
(44,597
 ) 
Held
-to
-maturity securities:
          Proceeds  
7 9 
10
 Available
-for
-sale 
securities:
          Proceeds from maturities 
92,740
 87,712 
44,414
       Proceeds from sales 
118,600
 114,041 
96,806
       Purchases  
(179,487)
 (346,372) (248,599
 ) 
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans held-for-investment 
8,853
 30,434 
27,531
  Other changes in loans, net 
3,645
 51,251 
(59,123
 ) 
Net cash (used)/received in business acquisitions or dispositions 
(4,910)
 (97) 
2,128
  Proceeds from assets sale to the FRBNY 
Š Š 28,850
  Net maturities/(purchases) of asset-backed commercial paper guaranteed by the FRBB 
Š 11,228 
(11,228
 ) 
All other investing activities, net 
(114
) (762) 
(934
 ) 
Net cash provided by
/(used in) investing activities
 54,00
2 29,355 
(283,671
 ) 
Financing activities
    Net change in:
          Deposits 
(9,637)
 (107,700) 177,331
       Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 
15,202
 67,785 
15,250
        Commercial paper and other borrowed funds 
(6,869)
 (67,198) 
9,219
        Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities 
2,426
 (4,076) 
(55)
  Proceeds from long-term borrowings and trust preferred capital debt securities 
55,181
 51,324 
72,407
  Payments of long-term borrowings and trust preferred capital debt securities 
(99,043
) (68,441) (65,344
 ) 
Excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation 
26
 17 
148 
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock and Warrant to the U.S. Treasury 
Š Š 25,000
 Proceeds from issuance of other preferred stock 
Š Š 7,746
 Redemption of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 
Š (25,000) 
Š Redemption of other preferred stock  
(352)
 Š Š Proceeds from issuance of common stock  
Š 5,756 
11,500
 Treasury stock purchased 
(2,999)
 Š Š  Dividends paid 
(1,486)
 (3,422) 
(5,911
 ) 
All other financing activities, net 
(1,666)
 (2,124) 
(292
 ) 
Net cash (used in)
/provided by financing activities
 (49,217
)     (153,079)    246,999
  Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks 
328
 238 
(507
 ) 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and due from banks 
1,361
 (689) (13,249
 ) 
Cash and due from banks at the beginning of the year 
26,206
 26,895 
40,144
 Cash and due from banks at the end of the year
  $   
 27,567
  $   26,206 $      26,895
  Cash interest paid 
 $   
 12,404
  $   16,875 $      37,267
  Cash income taxes paid, net 
9,747
 5,434 
2,280
 
 164 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Note 1 Œ Basis of presentation 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂ or the ﬁFirmﬂ)
, a finan-
cial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a 
leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking 

institutions in the United States of America (ﬁU.S.ﬂ), with operations 
worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial 
services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, 

financial transaction processing, asset management and private 

equity. For a discussion of the Firm™s business segment information, 
see Note 34 on pages 290Œ293 of this Annual Report. 
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase 
and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally 

accepted in the United States of America (ﬁU.S. GAAPﬂ). Addition-
ally, where applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and 
reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.  
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform 
to the current presentation.  
Consolidation  
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of JPMor-

gan Chase and other entities in which the Firm has a controlling 

financial interest. All material intercompany balances and transactions 

have been eliminated. The Firm determines whether it has a control-

ling financial interest in an entity by first evaluating whether the entity 

is a voting interest entity or a variable interest entity (ﬁVIEﬂ). 
Voting Interest Entities 
Voting interest entities are entities that have sufficient equity and 

provide the equity investors voting rights that enable them to make 

significant decisions relating to the entity™s operations. For these 

types of entities, the Firm™s determination of whether it has a con-

trolling interest is primarily based on the amount of voting equity 

interests held. Entities in which the Firm has a controlling financial 
interest, through ownership of the majority of the entities™ voting 
equity interests, or through other contractual rights that give the 
Firm control, are consolidated by the Firm. 
Investments in companies in which the Firm has significant influence 
over operating and financing decisions (but does not own a majority 

of the voting equity interests) are accounted for (i) in accordance 

with the equity method of accounting (which requires the Firm to 

recognize its proportionate share of the entity™s net earnings), or (ii) 
at fair value if the fair value option was elected at the inception of 
the Firm™s investment. These investments are generally included in 
other assets, with income or loss included in other income. 
The Firm-sponsored asset management funds are generally struc-
tured as limited partnerships or limited liability companies, which are 

typically considered voting interest entities. For the significant major-

ity of these entities, the Firm is the general partner or managing 

member, but the non-affiliated partners or members have the ability 
to remove the Firm as the general partner or managing member 
without cause (i.e., kick-out rights), based on a simple majority vote, 

or the non-affiliated partners or members have rights to participate 

in important decisions. Accordingly, the Firm does not consolidate 

these funds. In the limited cases where the non-affiliated partners or 

members do not have substantive kick-out or participating rights, 

the Firm consolidates the funds. 
The Firm™s investment companies make investments in both public 

and private entities, including investments in buyouts, growth equity 

and venture opportunities. These investments are accounted for 

under investment company guidelines and accordingly, irrespective 
of the percentage of equity ownership interests held, are carried on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value, and are recorded in 
other assets. 
Variable Interest Entities 
VIEs are entities that, by design, either (1) lack sufficient equity to 
permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordi-

nated financial support from other parties, or (2) have equity inves-

tors that do not have the ability to make significant decisions 
relating to the entity™s operations through voting rights, or do not 
have the obligation to absorb the expected losses, or do not have 
the right to receive the residual returns of the entity.  
The most common type of VIE is a special purpose entity (ﬁSPEﬂ). SPEs 
are commonly used in securitization transactions in order to isolate 

certain assets and distribute the cash flows from those assets to 

investors. SPEs are an important part of the financial markets, includ-

ing the mortgage- and asset-backed securities and commercial paper 
markets, as they provide market liquidity by facilitating investors™ 
access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. SPEs may be organized 

as trusts, partnerships or corporations and are typically established for 

a single, discrete purpose. SPEs are not typically operating entities and 

usually have a limited life and no employees. The basic SPE structure 

involves a company selling assets to the SPE; the SPE funds the pur-
chase of those assets by issuing securities to investors. The legal 
documents that govern the transaction specify how the cash earned 

on the assets must be allocated to the SPE™s investors and other 

parties that have rights to those cash flows. SPEs are generally struc-

tured to insulate investors from claims on the SPE™s assets by creditors 
of other entities, including the creditors of the seller of the assets. 
On January 1, 2010, the Firm implemented new consolidation ac-
counting guidance related to VIEs. The new guidance eliminates the 
concept of qualified special purpose entities (ﬁQSPEsﬂ) that were 
previously exempt from consolidation, and introduces a new frame-

work for consolidation of VIEs. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is 

required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the VIE. Under the 

new guidance, the primary beneficiary is the party that has both (1) 

the power to direct the activities of an entity that most significantly 
impact the VIE™s economic performance; and (2) through its interests 
in the VIE, the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive bene-
fits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.  
To assess whether the Firm has the power to direct the activities of a 
VIE that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic performance, 

the Firm considers all the facts and circumstances, including its role 

in establishing the VIE and its ongoing rights and responsibilities. 

This assessment includes, first, identifying the activities that most 
significantly impact the VIE™s economic performance; and second, 
identifying which party, if any, has power over those activities. In 

general, the parties that make the most significant decisions affect-

ing the VIE (such as asset managers, collateral managers, servicers, 

or owners of call options or liquidation rights over the VIE™s assets) 

or have the right to unilaterally remove those decision-makers are 

deemed to have the power to direct the activities of a VIE.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 165 
To assess whether the Firm has the obligation to absorb losses of the 
VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially 
be significant to the VIE, the Firm considers all of its economic inter-

ests, including debt and equity investments, servicing fees, and deriva-
tive or other arrangements deemed to be variable interests in the VIE. 
This assessment requires that the Firm apply judgment in determining 

whether these interests, in the aggregate, are considered potentially 

significant to the VIE. Factors considered in assessing significance 

include: the design of the VIE, including its capitalization structure; 

subordination of interests; payment priority; relative share of interests 
held across various classes within the VIE™s capital structure; and the 
reasons why the interests are held by the Firm.  
The Firm performs on-going reassessments of: (1) whether entities 
previously evaluated under the majority voting-interest framework 

have become VIEs, based on certain events, and therefore subject to 

the VIE consolidation framework; and (2) whether changes in the facts 

and circumstances regarding the Firm™s involvement with a VIE cause 
the Firm™s consolidation conclusion to change.  
For further details regarding the Firm™s application of the accounting 
guidance effective January 1, 2010, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 

of this Annual Report. 
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (ﬁFASBﬂ) issued an 
amendment which deferred the requirements of the accounting guid-
ance for certain investment funds, including mutual funds, private 

equity funds and hedge funds. For the funds to which the deferral 

applies, the Firm continues to apply other existing authoritative guid-
ance to determine whether such funds should be consolidated. 
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by the Firm 
are not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included in the Con-
solidated Balance Sheets.  
For reporting periods prior to January 1, 2010, there were two differ-
ent accounting frameworks applicable to SPEs: The qualifying special 
purpose entity (ﬁQSPEﬂ) framework and the VIE framework. The 
applicable framework depended on the nature of the entity and the 

Firm™s relation to that entity. The QSPE framework was applicable 

when an entity sold financial assets to an SPE meeting certain defined 

criteria that were designed to ensure that the activities of the entity 

were essentially predetermined at the inception of the vehicle and that 
the transferor of the financial assets could not exercise control over the 
entity and the assets therein. QSPEs were not consolidated by the 

transferor or other counterparties as long as they did not have the 

unilateral ability to liquidate or to cause the entity to no longer meet 

the QSPE criteria. The Firm™s securitizations of residential and commer-

cial mortgages, credit card, automobile and student loans generally 
were evaluated using the QSPE framework. For further details, see 
Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
Additionally, the other SPEs were evaluated using the VIE framework, 
which was based on a risk and reward approach, and required a vari-

able interest holder (i.e., an investor or other counterparty to a VIE) 

to consolidate the VIE if that party absorbed a majority of the ex-

pected losses of the VIE, received the majority of the expected 

residual returns of the VIE, or both. In making the determination of 
whether the Firm should consolidate a VIE, the Firm evaluated the 
VIE™s design, capital structure and relationships among the variable 

interest holders. If the Firm could not identify the party that consoli-
dates a VIE through a qualitative analysis, the Firm performed a 

quantitative analysis, which computed and allocated expected losses 

or residual returns to variable interest holders. The allocation of 

expected cash flows in this analysis was based on the relative rights 
and preferences of each variable interest holder in the VIE™s capital 
structure. The Firm reconsidered whether it was the primary benefi-
ciary of a VIE only when certain defined events occurred.  
Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated finan-
cial statements  

The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements requires 

management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the 

reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expense, and 
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could 
be different from these estimates. 
Foreign currency translation  
JPMorgan Chase revalues assets, liabilities, revenue and expense 

denominated in non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars using applica-
ble exchange rates.  
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency financial 
statements for U.S. reporting are included in other comprehensive 

income/(loss) within stockholders™ equity. Gains and losses relating 

to nonfunctional currency transactions, including non-U.S. opera-
tions where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
Statements of cash flows  
For JPMorgan Chase™s Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, cash 
is defined as those amounts included in cash and due from banks.  
Significant accounting policies  
The following table identifies JPMorgan Chase™s other significant 

accounting policies and the Note and page where a detailed descrip-
tion of each policy can be found.  
 Business changes and developments 
Note 2 Page  166 
Fair value measurement 
Note 3 Page  170 
Fair value option 
Note 4 Page  187 
Derivative instruments 
Note 6 Page  191 
Noninterest revenue 
Note 7 Page  199 
Interest income and interest expense  Note 8 Page  200 
Pension and other postretirement employee 

  benefit plans 
Note 9 Page  201 
Employee stock-based incentives 
Note 10 Page  210 
Securities  
Note 12 Page  214 
Securities financing activities 
Note 13 Page  219 
Loans 
Note 14 Page  220 
Allowance for credit losses 
Note 15 Page  239 
Variable interest entities 
Note 16 Page  244 
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Note 17 Page  260 
Premises and equipment 
Note 18 Page  263 
Long-term debt 
Note 22 Page  265 
Income taxes 
Note 27 Page  271 
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial  
instruments, guarantees and other  
commitments 
Note 30 Page  275 
Litigation 
Note 32 Page  282 

 166 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Note 2 Œ Business changes and  
developments  
Decrease in common stock dividend 
On
 February 23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the Firm™s 
quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 per share, 

effective with the dividend paid on April 30, 2009, to shareholders 

of record on April 6, 2009.  
Acquisition of the banking operations of Washington  
Mutual Bank  

On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking 

operations of Washington Mutual Bank (ﬁWashington Mutualﬂ) 

from the FDIC for $1.9 billion. The acquisition expanded JPMorgan 

Chase™s consumer branch network into several states, including 

California, Florida Washington, Georgia, Idaho, Nevada and Oregon 

and created the third largest branch network in the U.S. The acquisi-

tion also extended the reach of the Firm™s business banking, com-

mercial banking, credit card, consumer lending and wealth 

management businesses. 
The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of 

accounting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of Washing-

ton Mutual be initially reported at fair value.  
In 2008, the $1.9 billion purchase price was preliminarily allocated 
to the Washington Mutual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, 

which resulted in negative goodwill. In accordance with U.S. GAAP 

for business combinations that was in effect at the time of the 

acquisition, noncurrent nonfinancial assets acquired in the Washing-

ton Mutual transaction that were not held-for-sale, such as the 

premises and equipment and other intangibles, were written down 

against the negative goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained 

after writing down the nonfinancial assets was recognized as an 

extraordinary gain of $1.9 billion at December 31, 2008. The final 

total extraordinary gain that resulted from the Washington Mutual 

transaction was $2.0 billion. 
 The final summary computation of the purchase price and the allocation of the final total purchase price of $1.9 billion to the net assets acquired of Wash-
ington Mutual Œ based on their respective fair values as of September 25, 2008, and the resulting final negative goodwill of $2.0 billion are  
presented below. 
September 25, 2008 
(in millions)
     Purchase price
     Purchase price
     
$ 
1,938
  Direct acquisition costs
   3 Total purchase price
  1,941
  Net assets acquired
:  Washington Mutual™s net assets before fair value adjustments 
 $ 
39,186
 Washington Mutual™s goodwill and other intangible assets
   (7,566
)  Subtotal
 31,620
 Adjustments to reflect assets acquired at fair value:
  Sec
urities
 (16
)  Trading assets
 (591
)  Loans
 (30,998
)  Allowance for loan losses
 8,216
 Premises and equipment
 680
 Accrued interest and accounts receivable
 (243
)  Other assets
 4,010
 Adjustments to reflect liabilities assumed at fair val
ue:
  Deposits
 (686
)  Other borrowed funds
 68
 Accounts payable, accrued expense and other liabilities
 (1,124
)  Long
-term debt
 1,063
 Fair value of net assets acquired
    11,999
 Negative goodwill before allocation to nonfinancial assets
 (10,058
 ) Negative goodwill allocated to nonfinancial assets
(a)
      8,076
 Negative goodwill resulting from the acquisition
(b)
  $ (1,982
 ) 
(a) The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase business combination, which requires the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities (including 
executory contracts and other commitments) of an acquired business to be recorded at their respective fair values as of the effective date of the acquisition and consoli-
dated with those of JPMorgan Chase. The fair value of the net assets of Washington Mutual™s banking operations exceeded the $1.9 billion purchase price, resulting in 

negative goodwill. Noncurrent, nonfinancial assets not held-for-sale, such as premises and equipment and other intangibles, were written down against the negative 
goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained after writing down transaction-related core deposit intangibles of approximately $4.9 billion and premises and equip-

ment of approximately $3.2 billion was recognized as an extraordinary gain of $2.0 billion. 
(b) The extraordinary gain was recorded net of tax expense in Corporate/Private Equity. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 167 
Condensed statement of net assets acquired  
The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the final value assigned to the Washington Mutual net assets as of Septem-
ber 25, 2008
. 
(in millions)
 September 25, 2008
 Assets
  Cash and due from banks
  $ 3,680
Deposits with banks
   3,517
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
   1,7
00
Trading assets
   5,691
Securities
   17,224
Loans (net of allowance for loan losses)
   206,456
Accrued interest and accounts receivable
   3,253
Mortgage servicing rights
   5,874
All other assets
   16,596
Total assets
  $ 263,991
Liabilities
  Depo
sits
  $ 159,872
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements
   4,549
Other borrowed funds
   81,636
Trading liabilities
   585
Accounts payable, accrued expense and other liabilities
   6,708
Long
-term debt
   6,718
Total liabilities
   260,068
Washington Mutual net assets acquired
  $ 3,923
 Merger with The Bear Stearns Companies Inc.  

Effective May 30, 2008, BSC Merger Corporation, a wholly owned 

subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase, merged with The Bear Stearns 

Companies Inc. (ﬁBear Stearnsﬂ) pursuant to the Agreement and 

Plan of Merger, dated as of March 16, 2008, as amended March 

24, 2008, and Bear Stearns became a wholly owned subsidiary of 

JPMorgan Chase. The merger provided the Firm with a leading 

global prime brokerage platform; strengthened the Firm™s equities 

and asset management businesses; enhanced capabilities in mort-

gage origination, securitization and servicing; and expanded the 

platform of the Firm™s energy business. The merger was accounted 

for under the purchase method of accounting, which requires that 

the assets and liabilities of Bear Stearns be fair valued. The final 

total purchase price to complete the merger was $1.5 billion.  
The merger with Bear Stearns was accomplished through a series of 
transactions that were reflected as step acquisitions. On April 8, 

2008, pursuant to a share exchange agreement, JPMorgan Chase 

acquired 95 million newly issued shares of Bear Stearns common 

stock (or 39.5% of Bear Stearns common stock after giving effect 

to the issuance) for 20.7 million shares of JPMorgan Chase com-

mon stock. Further, between March 24, 2008, and May 12, 2008, 

JPMorgan Chase acquired approximately 24 million shares of Bear 

Stearns common stock in the open market at an average purchase 

price of $12.37 per share. The share exchange and cash purchase 

transactions resulted in JPMorgan Chase owning approximately 

49.4% of Bear Stearns common stock immediately prior to con-

summation of the merger. Finally, on May 30, 2008, JPMorgan 

Chase completed the merger. As a result of the merger, each 

outstanding share of Bear Stearns common stock (other than shares 
then held by JPMorgan Chase) was converted into the right to 

receive 0.21753 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase. Also, 

on May 30, 2008, the shares of common stock that JPMorgan 

Chase and Bear Stearns acquired from each other in the share 

exchange transaction were cancelled. From April 8, 2008, through 

May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase accounted for the investment in 

Bear Stearns under the equity method of accounting. During this 

period, JPMorgan Chase recorded reductions to its investment in 

Bear Stearns representing its share of Bear Stearns net losses, 

which was recorded in other income and accumulated other com-

prehensive income. The difference between the net assets acquired 

and the fair value of the net assets acquired (including goodwill), 

presented in the tables below, represent JPMorgan Chase™s net 

losses recorded under the equity method of accounting. 
In conjunction with the Bear Stearns merger, in June 2008, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the ﬁFRBNYﬂ) took control, 

through a limited liability company (ﬁLLCﬂ) formed for this purpose, 

of a portfolio of $30 billion in assets acquired from Bear Stearns, 

based on the value of the portfolio as of March 14, 2008. The 

assets of the LLC were funded by a $28.85 billion term loan from 

the FRBNY, and a $1.15 billion subordinated loan from JPMorgan 

Chase. The JPMorgan Chase loan is subordinated to the FRBNY 

loan and will bear the first $1.15 billion of any losses of the portfo-

lio. Any remaining assets in the portfolio after repayment of the 

FRBNY loan, the JPMorgan Chase note and the expense of the LLC 

will be for the account of the FRBNY.  
 
 168 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
As a result of step acquisition accounting, the final total purchase price of $1.5 billion was allocated to the Bear Stearns assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed using their fair values as of April 8, 2008, and May 30, 2008, respectively. The final summary computation of the purchase 
price and the allocation of the final total purchase price of $1.5 billion to the net assets acquired of Bear Stearns are presented below. 
May 30, 2008 
(in millions, except shares, per share amounts
, ratios 
and where otherwise noted) 
   Purchase price 
   
  
Shares exchanged in the Share Exch
ange transaction (April 8, 2008)
  95,000
    Other Bear Stearns shares outstanding
    145,759
    Total Bear Stearns stock outstanding
  240,759
    Cancellation of shares issued in the Share Exchange tran
saction
  (95,000
 )   Cancellation of shares a
cquire
d by JPMorgan Chase for cash in the open market
    (24,061
 )   Bear Stearns common stock exchanged as of May 30, 2008
  121,698
    Exchange ratio
    0.21753
    JPMorgan Chase common stock issued
  26,473
    Average purchase price per JPMorgan Chase common share
(a)
   $    45.26
    
Total fair value of JPMorgan Chase common stock issued 
    $  1,198
  Bear Stearns common stock acquired for cash in the open market (24 million shares at an 
average share price of $12.37 per share) 
   298
  Fair value of employee stock awards (largely to be settled by shares held in the RSU Trust
(b)
) 
   242
  Direct acquisition costs 
   27
  Less: Fair value of Bear Stearns common stock held in the RSU Trust and included in the 
exchange of common stock  
         (269
 )(b)
 Total purchase price
    1,496
        Net assets acquired
      Bear Stearns common stoc
kholders™ equity 
  $    
6,052
    Adjustments to reflect assets acquired at fair value:
      Trading assets
  (3,877
 )   Premises and equipment
  509
    Other asse
ts
  (288
 )   Adjustments to reflect liabilities assumed at fair value:
      Long
-term debt
  504
    Other liabilities
    (2,289
 )   Fair value of net assets acquired excluding goodwill
      611
  Goodwill resulting from the merger
(c)
    
 $     885
  (a) The value of JPMorgan Chase common stock was determined by averaging the closing prices of JPMorgan Chase™s common stock for the four trading days during the 
period March 19 through 25, 2008. 
(b) Represents shares of Bear Stearns common stock held in an irrevocable grantor trust (the ﬁRSU Trustﬂ), to be used to settle stock awards granted to selected employees 
and certain key executives under certain heritage Bear Stearns employee stock plans. Shares in the RSU Trust were exchanged for 6 million shares of JPMorgan Chase 
common stock at the merger exchange ratio of 0.21753. For further discussion of the RSU Trust, see Note 10 on pages 210Œ212 of this Annual Report. 
(c) The goodwill was recorded in Investment Bank and is not tax-deductible. 
Condensed statement of net assets acquired  
The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the final values assigned to the Bear Stearns net assets as of May 30, 2008.  
(in millions)
   May 30, 2008 
Assets 
  Cash and due from banks 
  $ 
 534 
Federal f
unds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 
   21,204 
Securities borrowed 
   55,195 
Trading assets 
   136,489 
Loans 
   4,407 
Accrued interest and accounts receivable 
   34,677 
Goodwill 
   885 
All other assets 
   35,377 
Total as
sets 
  $ 
288,768 
Liabilities 
  Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 
  $ 
 54,643 
Other borrowings 
   16,166 
Trading liabilities 
   24,267 
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 
   47,042 
Lon
g-term debt 
   67,015 
Accounts payable and other liabilities 
   78,569 
Total liabilities 
   287,702 
Bear Stearns net assets
(a)
   $ 
 1,066 
(a) Reflects the fair value assigned to 49.4% of the Bear Stearns net assets acquired on April 8, 2008 (net of related amortization), and the fair value assigned to the 
remaining 50.6% of the Bear Stearns net assets acquired on May 30, 2008. The difference between the net assets acquired, as presented above, and the fair value of 
the net assets acquired (including goodwill), presented in the previous table, represents JPMorgan Chase™s net losses recorded under the equity method of accounting.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 169 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial  
information reflecting the Bear Stearns merger and  
Washington Mutual transaction 

The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined finan-

cial information presents the 2008 results of operations of the 

Firm as they may have appeared, if the Bear Stearns merger and 

the Washington Mutual transaction had been completed on 

January 1, 2008.  
Year ended December 31,
   (in millions, except per share data)
 200
8 Total net revenue 
    
$ 68,149
 Loss
 before extraordinary gain
   (14,090
) Net 
loss
    (12,184
) Net loss per common share data: 
  Basic earnings per share
  Loss
 bef
ore extraordinary gain
     
$ 
  (4.26
) Net 
loss
       
  (3.72
) Diluted earnings per share
(a)
  Loss
 before extraordinary gain
     (4.26
) Net 
loss
      
  (3.72
) Average common shares issued and ou
tstanding
  Basic 
   3,510.5
 Diluted
    
   
3,510.
5 (a) Common equivalent shares have been excluded from the pro forma compu-
tation of diluted loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2008, as 
the effect would be antidilutive.  
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information is pre-
sented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the 
financial results of the combined company had the companies 

actually been combined as of January 1, 2008, nor is it indicative 

of the results of operations in future periods. Included in the 

unaudited pro forma combined financial information for the year 

ended December 31, 2008, were pro forma adjustments to reflect 

the results of operations of Bear Stearns and Washington Mu-

tual™s banking operations, considering the purchase accounting, 

valuation and accounting conformity adjustments. For the Wash-

ington Mutual transaction, the amortization of purchase account-

ing adjustments to report interest-earning assets acquired and 

interest-bearing liabilities assumed at current interest rates is 

reflected for the year ended December 31, 2008. Valuation 

adjustments and the adjustment to conform allowance method-

ologies in the Washington Mutual transaction, and valuation and 

accounting conformity adjustments related to the Bear Stearns 

merger are reflected in the results for the year ended December 

31, 2008.  Internal reorganization related to the Bear Stearns 

merger  

On June 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase fully and unconditionally 

guaranteed each series of outstanding preferred stock of Bear 

Stearns, as well as all of Bear Stearns™ outstanding U.S. Securities 

and Exchange Commission (ﬁSECﬂ) registered U.S. debt securities 

and obligations relating to trust preferred capital debt securities. 

Subsequently, on July 15, 2008, JPMorgan Chase completed an 

internal merger transaction, which resulted in each series of 

outstanding preferred stock of Bear Stearns being automatically 

exchanged into newly-issued shares of JPMorgan Chase preferred 

stock having substantially identical terms. In addition, pursuant to 

internal transactions in July 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, 

JPMorgan Chase assumed or guaranteed the remaining out-

standing securities of Bear Stearns and its subsidiaries, in each 

case in accordance with the indentures and other agreements 

governing those securities. As discussed below, all of the above 

series of preferred stock, and the depositary shares representing 

such preferred stock, were redeemed on August 20, 2010. 
Other business events  
Redemption of Series E, F and G cumulative preferred 
stock 
On August 20, 2010, JPMorgan Chase redeemed at stated 
redemption value, all outstanding shares of its Series E 6.15% 

Cumulative Preferred Stock; Series F 5.72% Cumulative Preferred 

Stock; and Series G 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock. For a 

further discussion of preferred stock, see Note 23 on pages 267Œ

268 of this Annual Report. 
RBS Sempra transaction 
On July 1, 2010, JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of 

RBS Sempra Commodities™ global oil, global metals and European 

power and gas businesses. The Firm acquired approximately $1.7 

billion of net assets which included $3.3 billion of debt which was 

immediately repaid. This acquisition almost doubled the number 

of clients the Firm™s commodities business can serve and will 

enable the Firm to offer clients more products in more regions of 

the world. 
Purchase of remaining interest in J.P. Morgan Cazenove 
On January 4, 2010, JPMorgan Chase purchased the remaining 

interest in J.P. Morgan Cazenove, an investment banking busi-

ness partnership formed in 2005, which resulted in an adjustment 

to the Firm™s capital surplus of approximately $1.3 billion. 

 170 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Termination of Chase Paymentech Solutions joint  
venture  
The dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture, 

a global payments and merchant acquiring joint venture between 

JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corporation, was completed on 

November 1, 2008. JPMorgan Chase retained approximately 51% 

of the business, which it operates under the name Chase Pay-

mentech Solutions. The dissolution of the Chase Paymentech 

Solutions joint venture was accounted for as a step acquisition in 

accordance with U.S. GAAP for business combinations, and the 

Firm recognized an after-tax gain of $627 million in the fourth 

quarter of 2008 as a result of the dissolution. The gain represents 

the amount by which the fair value of the net assets acquired 

(predominantly intangible assets and goodwill) exceeded JPMor-

gan Chase™s carrying value in the net assets transferred to First 

Data Corporation. Upon dissolution, the Firm consolidated the 

retained Chase Paymentech Solutions business. 
Proceeds from Visa Inc. shares  
On March 19, 2008, Visa Inc. (ﬁVisaﬂ) completed its initial public 

offering (ﬁIPOﬂ). Prior to the IPO, JPMorgan Chase held approxi-

mately a 13% equity interest in Visa. On March 28, 2008, Visa 

used a portion of the proceeds from the offering to redeem a 

portion of the Firm™s equity interest, which resulted in the recog-

nition of a pretax gain of $1.5 billion (recorded in other income). 

In conjunction with the IPO, Visa placed $3.0 billion in escrow to 

cover liabilities related to certain litigation matters. The escrow 

was increased by $1.1 billion in 2008, $700 million in 2009 and 

by $1.3 billion in 2010. Increases in Visa™s escrow account results 

in a dilution of the value of the Firm™s ownership of Visa Inc. 

JPMorgan Chase™s interest in the escrow was recorded as a 

reduction of other expense and reported net to the extent of 

established litigation reserves.  
Purchase of remaining interest in Highbridge Capital  
Management  

In January 2008, JPMorgan Chase purchased an additional equity 

interest in Highbridge Capital Management, LLC (ﬁHighbridgeﬂ), 

which resulted in the Firm owning 77.5% of Highbridge. In July 

2009, JPMorgan Chase completed its purchase of the remaining 

interest in Highbridge, which resulted in a $228 million adjustment 

to capital surplus. 
Note 3 Œ Fair value measurement  
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and li
abilities at 
fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are carried at 
fair value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are 

carried at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including held-for-

sale loans, which are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair 

value and that are only subject to fair value adjustments under 

certain circumstances.  
The Firm has an established and well-documented process for 
determining fair values. Fair value is defined as the price that 

would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 

in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 

measurement date. Fair value is based on quoted market prices, 

where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair 

value is based on internally developed models that primarily 

use, as inputs, market-based or independently sourced market 

parameters, including but not limited to yield curves, interest 

rates, volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates 

and credit curves. In addition to market information, models 

also incorporate transaction details, such as maturity of the 

instrument. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that 

financial instruments are recorded at fair value. These adjust-

ments include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality, 

the Firm™s creditworthiness, constraints on liquidity and unob-

servable parameters. Valuation adjustments are applied consis-

tently over time.  
· Credit valuation adjustments (ﬁCVAﬂ) are necessary when the 
market price (or parameter) is not indicative of the credit qual-

ity of the counterparty. As few classes of derivative contracts 

are listed on an exchange, the majority of derivative positions 

are valued using internally developed models that use as their 

basis observable market parameters. An adjustment is neces-

sary to reflect the credit quality of each derivative counterparty 

to arrive at fair value. The adjustment also takes into account 

contractual factors designed to reduce the Firm™s credit expo-

sure to each counterparty, such as collateral and legal rights 

of offset. 
· Debit valuation adjustments (ﬁDVAﬂ) are necessary to reflect 

the credit quality of the Firm in the valuation of liabilities 

measured at fair value. The methodology to determine the ad-

justment is consistent with CVA and incorporates JPMorgan 

Chase™s credit spread as observed through the credit default 

swap market. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 171 
· Liquidity valuation adjustments are necessary when the Firm 
may not be able to observe a recent market price for a fi-
nancial instrument that trades in inactive (or less active) 

markets or to reflect the cost of exiting larger-than-normal 

market-size risk positions (liquidity adjustments are not 

taken for positions classified within level 1 of the fair value 

hierarchy; see below). The Firm estimates the amount of un-

certainty in the initial valuation based on the degree of li-

quidity in the market in which the financial instrument 

trades and makes liquidity adjustments to the carrying value 

of the financial instrument. The Firm measures the liquidity 

adjustment based on the following factors: (1) the amount 

of time since the last relevant pricing point; (2) whether 

there was an actual trade or relevant external quote; and (3) 

the volatility of the principal risk component of the financial 

instrument. Costs to exit larger-than-normal market-size risk 

positions are determined based on the size of the adverse 

market move that is likely to occur during the period re-

quired to bring a position down to a nonconcentrated level.  
· Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments are necessary 

when positions are valued using internally developed models 

that use as their basis unobservable parameters Œ that is, pa-

rameters that must be estimated and are, therefore, subject to 

management judgment. Such positions are normally traded 

less actively. Examples include certain credit products where 

parameters such as correlation and recovery rates are unob-

servable. Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments are 

applied to mitigate the possibility of error and revision in the 

estimate of the market price provided by the model.  
The Firm has numerous controls in place intended to ensure that 

its fair values are appropriate. An independent model review 

group reviews the Firm™s valuation models and approves them for 

use for specific products. All valuation models within the Firm are 

subject to this review process. A price verification group, inde-

pendent from the risk-taking function, ensures observable market 

prices and market-based parameters are used for valuation wher-

ever possible. For those products with material parameter risk for 

which observable market levels do not exist, an independent 

review of the assumptions made on pricing is performed. Addi-

tional review includes deconstruction of the model valuations for 

certain structured instruments into their components and bench-

marking valuations, where possible, to similar products; validat-

ing valuation estimates through actual cash settlement; and 

detailed review and explanation of recorded gains and losses, 

which are analyzed daily and over time. Valuation adjustments, 

which are also determined by the independent price verification 

group, are based on established policies and applied consistently 

over time. Any changes to the valuation methodology are re-

viewed by management to confirm that the changes are justified. 

As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain 

products becomes more or less transparent, the Firm continues to 

refine its valuation methodologies. During 2010, no changes 

were made to the Firm™s valuation models that had, or are ex-
pected to have, a material impact on the Firm™s Consolidated 

Balance Sheets or results of operations. 
The methods described above to estimate fair value may produce 
a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable 

value or reflective of future fair values. Furthermore, while the 

Firm believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consis-

tent with other market participants, the use of different method-

ologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain 

financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair 

value at the reporting date.  
Valuation Hierarchy  
A three-level valuation hierarchy has been established under U.S. 

GAAP for disclosure of fair value measurements. The valuation 

hierarchy is based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation 

of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. The three 

levels are defined as follows.  
· Level 1 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted 
prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active 

markets.  
· Level 2 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted 

prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and 

inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either di-

rectly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the finan-

cial instrument.  
· Level 3 Œ one or more inputs to the valuation methodology are 

unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.  
A financial instrument™s categorization within the valuation 

hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant 

to the fair value measurement.  
Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used by 
the Firm to measure instruments at fair value, including the 

general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valua-

tion hierarchy.  
Assets  
Securities purchased under resale agreements (ﬁresale 
agreementsﬂ) and securities borrowed 

To estimate the fair value of resale agreements and securities 

borrowed transactions, cash flows are first evaluated taking into 

consideration any derivative features of the resale agreement and 

are then discounted using the appropriate market rates for the 

applicable maturity. As the inputs into the valuation are primarily 

based on readily observable pricing information, such resale 

agreements are classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments  
The majority of the Firm™s loans and lending-related commitments 

are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consoli-

dated Balance Sheets, nor are they actively traded. The fair value 

of such loans and lending-related commitments is included in the 

additional disclosures of fair value of certain financial instruments 

required by U.S. GAAP on pages 185Œ186 of this Note. Loans 

 172 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
carried at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis are 
included in the applicable tables that follow. 
Wholesale  
There is no liquid secondary market for most loans and lending-

related commitments in the Firm's wholesale portfolio. In the 

limited circumstances where direct secondary market information 

Œ including pricing of actual market transactions, broker quota-

tions or quoted market prices for similar instruments Œ is available 

(principally for loans in the Firm's secondary trading portfolio), 

such information is used in the determination of fair value. For 

the remainder of the portfolio, fair value is estimated using a 

discounted cash flow (ﬁDCFﬂ) model. In addition to the character-

istics of the underlying loans (including principal, contractual 

interest rate and contractual fees), key inputs to the model in-

clude interest rates, prepayment rates and credit spreads. The 

credit spread input is derived from the cost of credit default 

swaps (ﬁCDSﬂ) and, as a result, also incorporates the effects of 

secondary market liquidity. As many of the Firm™s clients do not 

have bonds traded with sufficient liquidity in the public markets 

to have observable CDS spreads, the Firm principally develops 

benchmark credit curves by industry and credit rating to estimate 

fair value. Also incorporated into the valuation process are addi-

tional adjustments to account for the difference in loss severity 

rates between bonds, on which the cost of credit derivatives is 

based, and loans as well as loan equivalents (which represent the 

portion of an unused commitment expected, based on the Firm's 

average portfolio historical experience, to become outstanding 

prior to an obligor default). Certain floating rate loans that are 

not carried on the balance sheet at fair value are carried at 

amounts that approximate fair value due to their short term 

nature and negligible credit risk (e.g. based on historical experi-

ence or collateralization). 
The Firm's loans and unfunded lending-related commitments 
carried at fair value are classified within level 2 or 3 of the valua-

tion hierarchy, depending on the level of liquidity and activity in 

the markets for a particular product. 
Consumer
 The only products in the Firm™s consumer loan portfolio with a 

meaningful level of secondary market activity in the current 

economic environment are certain conforming residential mort-

gages. These loans are classified as trading assets and carried at 

fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. They are predomi-

nantly classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy based on 

the level of market liquidity and activity.  
The fair value of the Firm™s other consumer loans (except for 
credit card receivables) is generally determined by discounting the 

loan principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected at 

a market observable discount rate, when available. Portfolio-

specific factors that a market participant would consider in de-

termining fair value (e.g., expected lifetime credit losses, esti-

mated prepayments, servicing costs and market liquidity) are 

either modeled into the cash flow projections or incorporated as 

an adjustment to the discount rate. For products that continue to 
be offered in the market, discount rates are derived from market-

observable primary origination rates. Where primary origination 

rates are not available (i.e., subprime mortgages, subprime home 

equity and option adjustable-rate mortgages (ﬁoption ARMsﬂ)) 

the valuation is based on the Firm™s estimate of a market partici-

pant™s required return on equity for similar products (i.e., a hypo-

thetical origination spread). Estimated lifetime credit losses 

consider expected and current default rates for existing portfolios, 

collateral prices (where applicable) and expectations about 

changes in the economic environment (e.g., unemployment 

rates).  
The fair value of credit card receivables is determined using a 
discounted expected cash flow methodology. Key estimates and 

assumptions include: projected interest income and late fee 

revenue, funding, servicing, credit costs, and loan payment rates. 

The projected loan payment rates are used to determine the 

estimated life of the credit card loan receivables, which are then 

discounted using a risk-appropriate discount rate. The discount 

rate is derived from the Firm's estimate of a market participant's 

expected return on credit card receivables. As the credit card 

portfolio has a short-term life, an amount equal to the allowance 

for loan losses is considered a reasonable proxy for the credit cost 

component. 
Loans that are not carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at 
fair value are not classified within the fair value hierarchy. 
Mortgage loans carried at fair value
 For certain loans that are expected to be securitized, fair value is 

estimated using a combination of observed transaction prices, 

independent pricing services and relevant broker quotes. Consid-

eration is given to the nature of the quotes (e.g., indicative or 

firm) and the relationship of recently evidenced market activity to 

the prices provided from independent pricing services. When 

relevant market activity is not occurring or is limited, fair value is 

estimated by projecting the expected cash flows and discounting 

those cash flows at a rate reflective of current market liquidity. To 

estimate the projected cash flows of a residential mortgage loan 

(inclusive of assumptions of prepayment, default rates and loss 

severity), specific consideration is given to both borrower-specific 

and other market factors, including, but not limited to: the bor-

rower™s FICO score; the type of collateral supporting the loans; 

the level of documentation for the loan; and market-derived 

expectations for home price appreciation or depreciation in the 

respective geography of the borrower. For commercial mortgages, 

consideration is given to both borrower-specific and other market 

factors, including but not limited to: the borrower™s debt-to-

service coverage ratio; the type of commercial property (e.g., 

retail, office, lodging, multi-family, etc.); an estimate of the cur-

rent loan-to-value ratio; and market-derived expectations for 

property price appreciation or depreciation in the respective 

geographic location. In addition, commercial mortgage loans 

typically have lock-out periods where the borrower is restricted 

from prepaying the loan due to prepayment penalties. These 

features reduce prepayment risk for commercial mortgages rela-
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 173 
tive to that of residential mortgages. These loans are classified 
within level 2 or 3 of the valuation hierarchy, depending on the 
level of liquidity and activity in the markets for the particular 

product. 
Securities  
Where quoted prices for identical securities are available in an 

active market, securities are classified in level 1 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Level 1 securities include highly liquid government 

bonds; mortgage products for which there are quoted prices in 

active markets such as U.S. government agency or U.S. govern-

ment-sponsored enterprise (collectively, ﬁU.S. government agen-

ciesﬂ) markets; pass-through mortgage-backed securities 

(ﬁMBSﬂ); and exchange-traded equities (e.g., common and 

preferred stocks). 
If quoted market prices are not available for the specific security, 
the Firm may estimate the value of such instruments using a 

combination of observed transaction prices, independent pricing 

services and relevant broker quotes. Consideration is given to the 

nature of the quotes (e.g., indicative or firm) and the relationship 

of recently evidenced market activity to the prices provided from 

independent pricing services. The Firm may also use pricing 

models or discounted cash flows. The majority of such instru-

ments are classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy; 

however, in cases where there is limited activity or less transpar-

ency around inputs to the valuation, securities are classified 

within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
For mortgage-backed securities, where market activity is not 
occurring or is limited, fair value is estimated considering the 

value of the collateral and the specific attributes of the securities 

held by the Firm. The value of the collateral pool supporting the 

securities is analyzed using the same techniques and factors 

described above for residential mortgage loans, albeit in a more 

aggregated manner across the pool. For example, for residential 

MBS, factors evaluated may include average FICO scores, average 

delinquency rates, average loss severities and prepayment rates, 

among other metrics. For commercial MBS, factors evaluated may 

include average delinquencies, loan or geographic concentrations, 

and average debt-service coverage ratios, among other metrics. 

In addition, as each securitization vehicle distributes cash in a 

manner or order that is predetermined at the inception of the 

vehicle, the priority in which each particular MBS is allocated cash 

flows, and the level of credit enhancement in place to support 

those cash flows, are key considerations in deriving the value of 

MBS. Finally, the risk premium that investors demand for securi-

tized products in the current market is factored into the valuation. 

To benchmark its valuations, the Firm looks to transactions for 

similar instruments and uses independent pricing provided by 

third-party vendors, broker quotes and relevant market indices, 

such as the ABX index, as applicable. While none of those 

sources are solely indicative of fair value, they serve as directional 

indicators for the appropriateness of the Firm™s estimates. 
For certain collateralized mortgage and debt obligations, asset-

backed securities (ﬁABSﬂ) and high-yield debt securities, the 

determination of fair value may require benchmarking to similar 

instruments or analyzing default and recovery rates. For cash 

collateralized debt obligations (ﬁCDOsﬂ), external price infor-

mation is not available. Therefore, cash CDOs are valued using 

market-standard models, such as Intex, to model the specific 

collateral composition and cash flow structure of each deal; key 

inputs to the model are market spread data for each credit 

rating, collateral type and other relevant contractual features. 

Asset-backed securities are valued based on external prices or 

market spread data, using current market assumptions on 

prepayments and defaults. For ABS where the external price 

data is not observable or the limited available data is opaque, 

the collateral performance is monitored and considered in the 

valuation of the security. To benchmark its valuations, the Firm 

looks to transactions for similar instruments and uses inde-

pendent prices provided by third-party vendors, broker quotes 

and relevant market indices, such as the ABX index, as applica-

ble. While none of those sources are solely indicative of fair 

value, they serve as directional indicators for the appropriate-

ness of the Firm™s estimates. The majority of collateralized 

mortgage and debt obligations, high-yield debt securities and 

ABS are currently classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
 Collateralized loan obligations (ﬁCLOsﬂ) are securities backed by 

corporate loans, and they are predominantly held in the Firm™s 
available-for-sale (ﬁAFSﬂ) securities portfolio. For these securities, 

external pricing information is not readily available. They are there-

fore valued using market-standard models to model the specific 

collateral composition and cash flow structure of each deal; key 

inputs to the model are market spread data for each credit rating, 

collateral type and other relevant contractual features.
 For further 
discussion, see Note 12 on pages 214Œ218 of this Annual Report.  
Commodities  

Commodities inventory is generally carried at the lower of cost or 

fair value. The fair value of commodities inventory is determined 

primarily using pricing and data derived from the markets on 

which the commodities are traded. The majority of commodities 

inventory is classified within level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.  
The Firm also has positions in commodities-based derivatives that 
can be traded on an exchange or over-the-counter (ﬁOTCﬂ) and 

carried at fair value. The pricing inputs to these derivatives in-

clude forward curves of underlying commodities, basis curves, 

volatilities, correlations, and occasionally other model parameters. 

The valuation of these derivatives is based on calibrating to 

market transactions, as well as to independent pricing informa-

tion from sources such as brokers and consensus pricing services. 

Where inputs are historical time series data, they are adjusted for 

uncertainty where appropriate. The majority of commodities-

based derivatives are classified within level 2 of the valuation 

hierarchy. 

 174 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Derivatives  
Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices are 
classified within level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. However, few 

classes of derivative contracts are listed on an exchange; thus, the 

majority of the Firm™s derivative positions are valued using inter-

nally developed models that use as their basis readily observable 

market parameters Œ that is, parameters that are actively quoted 

and can be validated to external sources, including industry 

pricing services. Depending on the types and contractual terms of 

derivatives, fair value can be modeled using a series of tech-

niques, such as the Black-Scholes option pricing model, simula-

tion models or a combination of various models, which are 

consistently applied. Where derivative products have been estab-

lished for some time, the Firm uses models that are widely ac-

cepted in the financial services industry. These models reflect the 

contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to 

maturity, and market-based parameters such as interest rates, 

volatility, and the credit quality of the counterparty. Further, many 

of these models do not contain a high level of subjectivity, as the 

methodologies used in the models do not require significant 

judgment, and inputs to the models are readily observable from 

actively quoted markets, as is the case for ﬁplain vanillaﬂ interest 

rate swaps, option contracts and CDS. Such instruments are 

generally classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Derivatives that are valued based on models with significant 
unobservable market parameters and that are normally traded 

less actively, have trade activity that is one way, and/or are traded 

in less-developed markets are classified within level 3 of the 

valuation hierarchy. Level 3 derivatives include, for example, CDS 

referenced to certain MBS, certain types of CDO transactions, 

options on baskets of single-name stocks, and callable exotic 

interest rate options. 
Other complex products, such as those sensitive to correlation 
between two or more underlying parameters, also fall within level 

3 of the valuation hierarchy, and include structured credit deriva-

tives which are illiquid and non-standard in nature (e.g., synthetic 

CDOs collateralized by a portfolio of credit default swaps ﬁCDSﬂ). 

For most CDO transactions, while inputs such as CDS spreads 

may be observable, the correlation between the underlying debt 

instruments is unobservable. Correlation levels are modeled on a 

transaction basis and calibrated to liquid benchmark tranche 

indices. For all structured credit derivatives, actual transactions, 

where available, are used regularly to recalibrate all unobservable 

parameters.  
Correlation sensitivity is also material to the overall valuation of 
options on baskets of single-name stocks; the valuation of these 

baskets is typically not observable due to their non-standardized 

structuring. Correlation for products such as these is typically esti-

mated based on an observable basket of stocks and then adjusted 

to reflect the differences between the underlying equities. 
For callable exotic interest rate options, while most of the as-

sumptions in the valuation can be observed in active markets 

(e.g., interest rates and volatility), the callable option transaction 

flow is essentially one-way, and as such, price observability is 

limited. As pricing information is limited, assumptions are based 

on the dynamics of the underlying markets (e.g., the interest rate 

markets) including the range and possible outcomes of the appli-

cable inputs. In addition, the models used are calibrated, as 

relevant, to liquid benchmarks, and valuation is tested against 

monthly independent pricing services and actual transactions. 
Mortgage servicing rights and certain retained interests 
in securitizations  

Mortgage servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ) and certain retained interests 

from securitization activities do not trade in an active, open 

market with readily observable prices. Accordingly, the Firm 

estimates the fair value of MSRs and certain other retained inter-

ests in securitizations using DCF models.  
· For MSRs, the Firm uses an option-adjusted spread (ﬁOASﬂ) 
valuation model in conjunction with the Firm™s proprietary 

prepayment model to project MSR cash flows over multiple in-

terest rate scenarios; these scenarios are then discounted at 

risk-adjusted rates to estimate the fair value of the MSRs. The 

OAS model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually 

specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency 

rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service 

and other economic factors. The Firm reassesses and periodi-

cally adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions used in 

the OAS model to reflect market conditions and assumptions 

that a market participant would consider in valuing the MSR 

asset. Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, MSRs are 

classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.  
· For certain retained interests in securitizations, the Firm esti-

mates the fair value for those retained interests by calculating 

the present value of future expected cash flows using model-

ing techniques. Such models incorporate management's best 

estimates of key variables, such as expected credit losses, pre-

payment speeds and the appropriate discount rates, consider-

ing the risk involved. Changes in the assumptions used may 

have a significant impact on the Firm's valuation of retained 

interests, and such interests are therefore typically classified 

within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
For both MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitiza-

tions, the Firm compares its fair value estimates and assumptions 

to observable market data where available and to recent market 

activity and actual portfolio experience. For further discussion of 

the most significant assumptions used to value retained interests 

and MSRs, as well as the applicable stress tests for those assump-

tions, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259, and Note 17 on pages 

260Œ263 of this Annual Report.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 175 
Private equity investments  
The valuation of nonpublic private equity investments, which are 
held primarily by the Private Equity business within the Corpo-

rate/Private Equity line of business, requires significant manage-

ment judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the 

inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. 

As such, nonpublic private equity investments are valued initially 

based on cost. Each quarter, valuations are reviewed using avail-

able and relevant market data to determine if the carrying value 

of these investments should be adjusted. Such market data pri-

marily include observations of the trading multiples of public 

companies considered comparable to the private companies being 

valued and the operating performance of the underlying portfolio 

company, including its historical and projected net income and its 

earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization 

(ﬁEBITDAﬂ). Valuations are adjusted to account for company-

specific issues, the lack of liquidity inherent in a nonpublic in-

vestment, and the fact that comparable public companies are not 

identical to the companies being valued. In addition, a variety of 

additional factors are reviewed by management, including, but 

not limited to, financing and sales transactions with third parties, 

future expectations of the particular investment, changes in 

market outlook and the third-party financing environment. Non-

public private equity investments are included in level 3 of the 

valuation hierarchy.  
Private equity investments also include publicly held equity in-
vestments, generally obtained through the initial public offering 

of privately held equity investments. Investments in securities of 

publicly held companies that trade in liquid markets are marked 

to market at the quoted public value less adjustments for regula-

tory or contractual sales restrictions. Discounts for restrictions are 

quantified by analyzing the length of the restriction period and 

the volatility of the equity security. Publicly held investments are 

predominantly classified in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Other fund investments  
The Firm holds investments in mutual/collective investment funds, 

private equity funds, hedge funds and real estate funds. Where 

the funds produce a daily net asset value (ﬁNAVﬂ) that is vali-

dated by a sufficient level of observable activity (purchases and 

sales at NAV), the NAV is used to value the fund investment and 

it is classified in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Where adjust-

ments to the NAV are required, for example, with respect to 

interests in funds subject to restrictions on redemption (such as 

lock-up periods or withdrawal limitations) and/or observable 

activity for the fund investment is limited, investments are classi-

fied within level 2 or 3 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Liabilities  
Securities sold under repurchase agreements (ﬁrepur-
chase agreementsﬂ)  

To estimate the fair value of repurchase agreements, cash flows 

are first evaluated taking into consideration any derivative fea-

tures of the repurchase agreements and are then discounted 

using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity. 

Generally, for these types of agreements, there is a requirement 

that collateral be maintained with a market value equal to, or in 

excess of, the principal amount loaned; as a result, there would 

be no adjustment, or an immaterial adjustment, to reflect the 

credit quality of the Firm (i.e., DVA) related to these agreements. 

As the inputs into the valuation are primarily based on observable 

pricing information, repurchase agreements are classified within 

level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs  
The fair value of beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 

(ﬁbeneficial interestsﬂ) is estimated based on the fair value of the 

underlying assets held by the VIEs. The valuation of beneficial 

interests does not include an adjustment to reflect the credit 

quality of the Firm, as the holders of these beneficial interests do 

not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. 

Where the inputs into the valuation are based on observable 

market pricing information, the beneficial interests are classified 

within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Where significant inputs 

into the valuation are unobservable, the beneficial interests are 

classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Deposits, other borrowed funds and long-term debt  
To estimate the fair value of long-term debt, cash flows are 

discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applicable 

maturities, with an adjustment to reflect the credit quality of the 

Firm (i.e., the DVA). Included within deposits, other borrowed 

funds and long-term debt are structured notes issued by the Firm 

that are financial instruments containing embedded derivatives. 

In addition to the above, the estimation of the fair value of struc-

tured notes takes into consideration any derivative features. 

Where the inputs into the valuation are primarily based on observ-

able market prices, the structured notes are classified within level 2 

of the valuation hierarchy. Where significant inputs are unobserv-

able, the structured notes are classified within level 3 of the valua-

tion hierarchy.  

  
 176 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The following tables present assets and liabilities measured at fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, by major product category and by 
the fair value hierarchy (as described above).  
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
  Fair value hierarchy 
  December 31, 2010
 (in millions)
  Level 1
(i)
 Level 2
(i)
   Level 3
(i)
 Netting 
 adjustments 
  
      
Total 
         fair value
 Federal funds sold and securities purc
hased under resale 
 agreements 
 $ Š  $ 20,299  $ Š  $ Š  $ 20,299
 Securities borrowed 
  Š   13,961
   Š   Š   13,961
 Trading assets: 
    
 Debt instruments: 
     Mortgage-backed securities: 
     U.S. government agencies
(a)
   36,813   10,738   174   Š   47,725
 Residential Œ nonagency 
  Š   2,807
   687
   Š   3,494
 Commercial Œ nonagency 
  Š   1,093
   2,069
   Š   3,162
 Total mortgage
-backed securities
   36,813
   14,638
   2,930
   Š   54,381
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)
   12,863   9,026   Š   Š   21,889
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
  Š   11,715
   2,257
   Š   13,
972
 Certificates of deposit, bankers™ acceptances and 
    commercial paper 
  Š   3,248   Š   Š   3,248
 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
  31,127
   38,482
   697
   Š   70,306
 Corporate debt securities 
  Š   42,280
   4,946
   Š   47,226
 Loans
(b)
   Š   21,736   13,144   Š   34,880
 Asset-backed securities 
  Š   2,743
   7,965
   Š   10,708
 Total debt instruments
   80,803
  143,868
   31,939
   Š  256,610
 Equity securities 
 124,400
   3,153
   1,685
   Š  129,238
 Physical commodities
(c)
   18,327   2,708   Š   Š   21,035
 Other 
  Š   2,275
   253
   Š   2,528
 Total debt and equity instruments
(d)
  223,530  152,004   33,877   Š  409,411
 Derivative receivables: 
     Interest rate 
  2,278
 1,120,282
   5,422
 (1,
095
,427
)   32,555
 Credit
(e)
   Š  111,827   17,902 (122,004)   7,725
 Foreign exchange 
  1,121
  163,114
   4,236
 (142
,613
)   25,858
 Equity  
  30
   38,041
   5,562
 (39
,429
)   4,204
 Commodity 
  1,324
   56,076
   2,197
 (49
,458
)   10,139
 Total derivative receivables
(f)
   4,753 1,489,340   35,319 (1,448,931)   80,481
 Total trading assets
  228,283
 1,641,344
   69,196
 (1,448,931)
  489,892
 Available-for-sale securities: 
     Mortgage-backed securities: 
        U.S. government agencies
(a)
  104,736   15,490   Š   Š  120,226
    Residential Œ nonagency 
  Š   48,969
   5   Š   48,974
    Commercial Œ nonagency 
  Š   5,403
   251
   Š   5,654
 Total mortgage
-backed securities
  104,73
6   69,862
   256
   Š  174,854
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)
   
  522   10,826   Š   Š   11,348
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
  31
   11,272
   256
   Š   11,559
 Certificates of deposit 
  6   3,641
   Š   Š   3,647
 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
  13,107
   7,670
   Š   Š   20,777
 Corporate debt securities 
  1   61,793
   Š   Š   61,794
 Asset-backed securities: 
       Credit card receivables 
  Š   7,608
   Š   Š   7,608
   Collateralized loan obligations 
  Š   128
   13,470
   Š   13,598
   Other 
  Š   8,777
   305
   Š   9,
082
 Equity securities 
  1,998
   53
   Š   Š   2,051
 Total available
-for
-sale securities
  120,401
  181,630
   14,287
   Š  316,318
 Loans 
  Š   510
   1,466
   Š   1,97
6 Mortgage servicing rights 
  Š   Š   13,649
   Š   13,649
 Other assets: 
    
 Private equity investments
(g)
   49   826   7,862   Š   8,737
 All other 
  5,093
   192
   4,179
   Š   9,464
 Total other assets
   5,142
   1,01
8   12,04
1   Š   18,201
 Total assets measured at fair value on a recu
rring 
basis
(h)
  $ 353,826  $1,858,762  $ 110,639  $ (1,448,931)  $ 874,296
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 177 
  
  Fair value hierarchy 
  December 31, 2010
 (in millions)
    Level 1
(i)
        Level 2
(i)
   Level 3
(i)
 Netting 
 adjustments 
       
Total 
         fair value
 Deposits 
 $ Š  $ 3,736
  $ 633
  $ Š  $     
4,369
 Federal funds purchase
d and securities loaned or 
sold under repurchase agreements 
  Š   4,060   Š   Š  4,060
 Other borrowed funds 
  Š   8,959
   972
   Š  9,931
 Trading liabilities: 
    
 Debt and equity instruments
(d)
   58,468   18,425   54   Š  76,947
 Derivative payables: 
     Interest rate 
  2,625
   1,085,233
   2,586
   (1,
070
,05
7)  20,387
 Credit
(e)   Š   112,545   12,516   (119,923)  5,138
 Foreign exchange 
  972
   158,908
   4,850
   (139,715
)  25,01
5 Equity  
  22
   39,046
   7,331
   (35,949
)  10,450
 Commodity 
  862
   54,611
   3,002
   (50,246
)  8,229
 Total derivative payables
(f)   4,481   1,450,343   30,285   (1,415,890)  69,219
 Total trading liabilities
   62,949
   1,46
8,768
   30,339
   (1,415,890)
  146,16
6 Accounts payable and other liabilities 
  Š   Š   236
   Š  236
 Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 
  Š   622
   873
   Š  1,495
 Long-term debt  
  Š   25,795
   13,044
   Š  38,839
 Total liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
  $ 62,949  $ 1,511,940  $ 46,097  $ (1,415,890)  $ 205,096
 
 178 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 Fair value hierarchy 
  December 31, 2009 (in millions)
    Level 1         Level 2   Level 3 
Netting 
 adjustments 
   
   
 Total 
         fair value
 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale 
agreements 
 $ Š $ 20,536  $ Š   $  Š $     20,536
 Securities borrowed
   Š   7,032
   Š   Š   7,032
 Trading assets: 
   
  Debt instruments:
      Mortgage-backed securities: 
     U.S. government agencies
(a)
   33,092   8,373   260   Š   41,725
 Residential 
Œ nonagency
   Š   2,284
   1,115
   Š   3,399
 Commercial 
Œ nonagency
   Š   537
   1,770
   Š   2,307
 Total mortgage
-backed securities
   33,092   11,194   3,145   Š   47,431
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)
   13,701   9,559   Š   Š   23,260
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
  Š   5,681   1,971   Š   7,652
 Certificates of deposit, bankers™ acceptances and
   commercial paper 
  Š   5,419   Š   Š   5,419
 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
  25,684   32,487   734   Š   58,905
 Corporate debt securities 
  Š   48,754   5,241   Š   53,995
 Loans
(b)   Š   18,330   13,218   Š   31,548
 Asset
-backed securities
   Š   1,428
   7,975
   Š   9,403
 Total debt instruments
   72,477   132,852   32,284   Š   237,613
 Equity securities
   75,053
   3,450
   1,956
   Š   80,459
 Physical commodities
(c)   9,450   586   Š   Š   10,036
 Other 
  Š   1,884   926   Š   2,810
 Total debt and equity instruments
(d)
   156,980   138,772   35,166    Š   330,918
 Derivative receivables
(e)(f)
   2,344 1,516,490   46,684  (1,485,308)   80,210
 Total 
trading assets
   159,324 1,655,262   81,850  (1,485,308)   411,128
 Available
-for
-sale securities
 :      Mortgage
-backed securities:
        U.S. government agencies
(a)
   158,957   8,941   Š   Š   167,898
   
Residential 
Œ nonagency
   Š   14,773
   25
   Š   14,798
   
Commercial 
Œ nonagency
   Š   4,590
   Š   Š   4,590
 Total mortgage
-backed securities
   158,957   28,304   25   Š   187,286
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)
  
  405   29,592   Š   Š   29,997
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipal
ities
   Š   6,188
   349
   Š   6,537
 Certificates of deposit
   Š   2,650
   Š   Š   2,650
 Non
-U.S. government debt securities
   5,506
   18,997
   Š   Š   24,503
 Corporate debt securities
   1   62,007
   Š   Š   62,008
 Asset-backed securities: 
     Credit card receivables 
  Š   25,742   Š   Š   25,742
 Collateralized debt and loan obligations 
  Š   5   12,144   Š   12,149
 Other 
  Š   6,206   588   Š   6,794
 Equity securities 
  2,466   146   87   Š   2,699
 Total available
-for
-sale securities
   167,335   179,837   13,193   Š   360,365
 Loans
   Š   374
   990
   Š   1,364
 Mortgage servicing rights
   Š   Š   15,531
   Š   15,531
 Other assets: 
   
  Private equity investments
(g)   165   597   6,563   Š   7,325
 All other
(j)   7,241   90   9,521   Š   16,852
 Total other assets
   7,406   687   16,084   Š   24,177
 Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring 
basis
(h)
  $ 334,065 $ 1,863,728  $ 127,648  $ (1,485,308)  $ 840,133
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 179 
  Fair value hierarchy 
  December 31, 2009 (in millions)
    Level 1            Level 2     Level 3 
Netting 
 adjustments 
          
Total 
        fair value
 Deposits
  $ Š  $ 3,979
  $ 476
 $  Š  $     4,455
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or 
sold under repurchase agreements 
  Š    3,396    Š    Š  3,396
Other borrowed funds
   Š    5,095
   542
    Š  5,637
Trading liabilities: 
    Debt and equity instruments
(d)
   50,577    14,359   10    Š  64,946
Derivative payables
(e)(f)
    2,038    1,481,813   35,332   (1,459,058)  60,125
Total trading liabiliti
es
   52,615    1,496,172   35,342   (1,459,058)  125,071
Accounts payable and other liabilities
    Š    2   355
    Š  357
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
    Š    785
   625
    Š  1,410
Long
-term debt 
    Š    30,685
   18,287
    Š  48
,972
Total liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
  $ 52,615   $ 1,540,114  $ 55,627  $ (1,459,058)  $ 189,298
 (a)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, included total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations of $137.3 billion and $195.8 billion respectively, which were 
predominantly mortgage-related. 
(b)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, included within trading loans were $22.7 billion and $20.7 billion, respectively, of residential first-lien mortgages and $2.6 billion and 

$2.7 billion, respectively, of commercial first-lien mortgages. Residential mortgage loans include conforming mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell to U.S. 
government agencies of $13.1 billion and $11.1 billion, respectively, and reverse mortgages of $4.0 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively. 
(c)
 Physical commodities inventories are generally accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value. 
(d)
 Balances reflect the reduction of securities owned (long positions) by the amount of securities sold but not yet purchased (short positions) when the long and short 
positions have identical Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures (ﬁCUSIPsﬂ).  
(e)
 The level 3 amounts for derivative receivables and derivative payables related to credit primarily include structured credit derivative instruments. For further information 

on the classification of instruments within the valuation hierarchy, see pages 171Œ175 of this Note. 
(f)
 As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related cash collateral received and paid when a 
legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. For purposes of the tables above, the Firm does not reduce derivative receivables and derivative payables balances 
for this netting adjustment, either within or across the levels of the fair value hierarchy, as such netting is not relevant to a presentation based on the transparency of 
inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability. Therefore, the balances reported in the fair value hierarchy table above are gross of any counterparty netting adjustments. 
However, if the Firm were to net such balances within level 3, the reduction in the level 3 derivative receivable and derivative payable balances would be $12.7 billion 
and $16.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, exclusive of the netting benefit associated with cash collateral, which would further reduce the level 3 

balances. 
(g)
 Private equity instruments represent investments within the Corporate/Private Equity line of business. The cost basis of the private equity investment portfolio totaled 
$10.0 billion and $8.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(h)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, balances included investments valued at net asset value of $12.1 billion and $16.8 billion, respectively, of which $5.9 billion and 
$9.0 billion, respectively, were classified in level 1, $2.0 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, in level 2 and $4.2 billion and $4.6 billion in level 3. 
(i)
 For the year ended December 31, 2010, there were no significant transfers between levels 1 and 2. Transfers from level 3 into level 2 included $1.2 billion of trading 

loans due to increased price transparency. There were no significant transfers into level 3. 
(j)
 Included assets within accrued interest receivable and other assets at December 31, 2009. 
  Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements  
The following tables include a rollforward of the balance sheet 
amounts (including changes in fair value) for financial instruments 

classified by the Firm within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for 

the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. When a 

determination is made to classify a financial instrument within level 

3, the determination is based on the significance of the unobserv-

able parameters to the overall fair value measurement. However, 

level 3 financial instruments typically include, in addition to the 

unobservable or level 3 components, observable components (that 

is, components that are actively quoted and can be validated to 

external sources); accordingly, the gains and losses in the table 
below include changes in fair value due in part to observable fac-

tors that are part of the valuation methodology. Also, the Firm risk-

manages the observable components of level 3 financial instru-

ments using securities and derivative positions that are classified 

within level 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy; as these level 1 and 

level 2 risk management instruments are not included below, the 

gains or losses in the following tables do not reflect the effect of 

the Firm™s risk management activities related to such level 3 in-

struments. 
 
 180 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
  Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2010 
(in millions)
 Fair value at 
January 1, 2010 
Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
gains/(losses) 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(e)
 Fair value at 
December 31,
 2010 
Change in 
 unrealized 
gains/(losses)  
related to financial
  instruments held at 
 December 31, 2010
 Assets:
       Trading assets: 
   
   Debt instruments: 
   
   Mortgage-backed securities: 
      U.S. government agencies 
 $ 260
  $ 24
  $ (107)
  $ (3)
  $ 174
  $       
(31
 ) Residential Œ nonagency 
1,115
 178
 (564)
 (42)
 687
 110
  Commercial Œ nonagency 
1,770
 230
 (33)
 102
 2,069
 130
  Total m
ortgage
-backed 
 securities 
3,145 432 
(704) 
57 2,930 
209
  Obligations of U.S. states and 
municipalities 
1,971 2 142 
142 2,257 
(30
 ) 
Non-U.S. government debt securities 
734
 (132)
 140
 (45)
 697
 (10
5 ) Corporate debt securities 
5,241
 (325)
 115
 (85)
 4,94
6 28
  Loans 
13,218
 (40)
 1,296
 (1,330)
 13,144
 (3
85
 ) Asset-backed securities 
7,975
 333
 (354)
 11
 7,965
 29
2  Total debt instruments
 32,284
 270
 635
 (1,250)
 31,939
 9  Equity securities 
1,956
 133
 (351)
 (53)
 1,685
 199
  Other  
926
 10
 (762)
 79
 253
 98
  Total debt a
nd equity 
 instruments 
35,166 413
(a)
 (478) (1,224) 33,877 
306
 (a)
 Net derivative receivables: 
       Interest rate 
2,040
 3,057
 (2,520)
 259
 2,836
 487
  Credit 
10,350
 (1,757)
 (3,102)
 (105)
 5,386
 (1,0
48
 ) Foreign exchange 
1,082
 (913)
 (434)
 (349
) (614)
 (464
 ) Equity 
(1,791)
 7 (121)
 136
 (1,769)
 (11
 ) Commodity 
(329)
 (700)
 134
 90
 (805)
 (76
 ) Total net d
erivative 
 receivables 
11,352 (306)
(a)
 (6,043) 
31 5,034 
(1,112
 )(a)
 Available-for-sale securities: 
       Asset-backed securities 
12,732
 (146)
 1,189
 Š 13,7
75
 (129
 ) Other  
461
 (49
) 37
 63
 512
 18  Total available
-for
-sale 
 securities 
13,193 (195)
(b)
 1,226 
63 14,287 
(111
 )(b)
 Loans 
990 145
(a) 323 
8 1,466 
37
 (a)
 Mortgage servicing rights 
15,531 (2,268)
(c) 386 
Š 13,649 
(2,268
 )(c)
 Other assets: 
       Private equity investments 
6,563 1,038
(a) 715 
(454) 7,862 
688
 (a)
 All other 
9,521 (113)
(d) (5,132) (97) 4,179 
37
 (d)
     Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2010 
(in millions)
 Fair value at 
January 1, 2010 
Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
(gains)/losses 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(e)
 Fair value at 
December 31, 
2010 
Change in
 unrealized 
(gains)/losses  
related to financial 
 instruments held at 
December 31, 2010
 Liabilities
(f)
:        
Deposits 
  $  476   $     54
(a)  $ (226)  $ 329  $ 633 
$  (77
 )(a)
 Other borrowed funds 
542 (123)
(a) 795 
(242) 972 
445
 (a)
 Trading liabilities: 
       Debt and equity instruments 
10 
2(a) 19 
23 
54 
Š (a)
 Accounts payable and other liabilities
 355 (138)
(d)
 19 
Š 236 
37
 (d)
 Beneficial interests issued by 
    consolidated VIEs 
625 
(7)
(a)
 87 
168 873 
(76 
)(a)
 Long-term debt  
18,287 (532)
(a) (4,796) 
85 13,044 
662
 (a)
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 181 
  Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2009 
(in millions)
 Fair value, 
January 1, 2009 
Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
gains/(losses) 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(e)
 Fair value, 
December 31, 
2009 
Change in 
 unrealized 
gains/(losses)  
related to financial
  instruments held at 
 December 31, 2009
 Assets:
       Trading assets: 
   
   Debt instruments: 
   
   Mortgage-backed securities: 
      U.S. government agencies
  $ 163
  $ (38)
  $      
62
  $ 73
  $    
 260
  $ 
       
(38
 ) Resident
ial 
Œ nonagency
 3,339
 (782)
 (245)
 (1,197)
 1,115
 (871
 ) Commercial 
Œ nonagency
 2,487
 (242)
 (325)
 (150)
 1,770
 (313
 ) Total mortgage
-backed 
 securities 
5,989 (1,062) 
(508) (1,274) 3,145 
(1,222
 ) 
Obligations of U.S. states and 
municipalities 
2,641 
(22) 
(648) 
Š 1,971 
(123
 ) 
Non
-U.S
. government debt securities
 707
 38
 (75)
 64
 734
 34
  Corporate debt securities
 5,280
 38
 (3,416)
 3,339
 5,241
 (72
 ) Loans
 17,091
 (871)
 (3,497)
 495
 13,218
 (1,167
 ) Asset-backed securities 
7,106 1,436 
(378) 
(189) 7,975 
734
  Total de
bt instruments
 38,814 
(443) (8,522) 2,435 32,284 
(1,816
 ) 
Equity securities
 1,380
 (149)
 (512)
 1,237
 1,956
 (51
 ) Other 
 1,226
 (79)
 (253)
 32
 926
 (119
 ) Total debt and equity 
 instruments 
41,420 (671)
(a)
 (9,287) 3,704 35,166 
(1,986
 )(a)
 Total net derivative receivables 
9,507 (11,406)
(a) (3,448) 16,699 11,352 
(10,835
 )(a
) Available-for-sale securities: 
       Asset
-backed securities
 11,447
 (2)
 1,112
 175
 12,732
 (48
 ) Other 
 944
 (269)
 302
 (516)
 461
 43
  Total available
-for
-sale 
 securities 
12,391 (271)
(b)
 1,414 
(341) 13,193 
(5
 )(b)
 Loans 
2,667 
(448)
(a
) (1,906) 
677 
990 
(488
 )(a
) Mortgage servicing rights 
9,403 5,807
(c
) 321 
Š 15,531 
5,807
 (c)
 Other assets:
        Private equity investments 
6,369 
(407)
(a) 582 
19 6,563 
(369
 )(a) All other
(g) 8,114 
(676)
(d) 2,439 
(356) 9,521 
(612
 )(d)   Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 

December 31, 2009 
(in millions)
 Fair value at 
January 1, 2009
 Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
(gains)/losses 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(e)
 Fair value at 
December 31,
 2009 
Change in 
 unrealized 
(gains)/losses  
related to financial 
instruments held at
 December 31, 2009
 Liabilities
(f):        Deposits 
   $   1,235   $     47
(a)  $    (870)  $      64  $     476 
$        (36)
(a) Other borrowed funds
 101 
(73)
(a) 621 
(107) 
542 
9(a)
 Trading liabilities:
      Debt and equity instruments 
288 
64
(a) (339) 
(3) 
10 
12
(a)
 Accounts payable and other liabilities
 Š (55)
(a) 410 
Š 355 
(29)
(a) Beneficial interests 
issued by 
consolidated VIEs 
Š 344
(a)
 (598) 
879 
625 
327
(a)
 Long-term debt  
16,548 1,367
(a) (2,738) 3,110 18,287 
1,728
(a)
  
 182 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
  Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2008 
(in millions)
 Fair value at 
January 1, 2008
 Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
gains/(losses) 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(e)
 Fair value at 
December 31,
 2008 
Change in 
 unrealized 
gains/(losses)  
related to financial 
 instruments held  at
 December 31, 2008
 Assets:
        Trading assets:
        Debt and equity instruments 
 $ 24,066 
 $(12,805)
(a)  $ 6,201 
 $  23,958  $ 41,420  $  (9,860
 )(a) Total net derivative receivables 
633 4,556
(a) 2,290 2,028 9,507 
1,814
 (a) Available-for-sale securities 
101 
(1,232)
(b) 3,772 9,750 12,391 
(422
 )(b) Loans 
8,380 (1,547)
(a) 12 (4,178) 2,667 
(1,324
 )(a) Mortgage servicing rights 
8,632 (6,933)
(c) 7,704 
Š 9,403 
(6,933
 )(c) Other assets:
        Private equity investments 
6,763 (638)
(a) 320 
(76) 6,369 
(1,089
 )(a) All other
(g) 5,978 
(940)
(d) 2,787 
289 8,114 
(753
 )(d)    Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2008 
(in millions)
 Fair value at 
January 1, 2008
 Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
(gains)/losses 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(e)
 Fair value at 
December 31,
 2008 
Change in 
 unrealized 
(gains)/losses  
related to financial 
instruments held at 
December 31, 2008
  Liabilities
(f)
:        Deposits 
 $ 1,161  $    (57)
(a)  $ 79  $ 52  $ 1,235 
$        (69
)(a) Other borrowed funds
   105   (7)
(a)   53   (50)    101 
(24
)(a) Trading liabilities:
       Debt and equity instruments   480 
  (73)
(a)   (33)   (86)    288 
(125
)(a) Accounts payable and other liabilities
     25   (25)
(a)   Š   Š    Š 
ŠBeneficial interests issued by 
consolidated VIEs 
  82   (24)
(a)
   (603)   545    Š 
ŠLong-term debt  
  21,938   (4,502)
(a)   (1,717)   829    16,548 
(3,682
)(a) (a) Predominantly reported in principal transactions revenue, except for changes in fair value for Retail Financial Services mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell, which 
are reported in mortgage fees and related income. 
(b) Realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, as well as other-than-temporary impairment losses that are recorded in earnings, are reported in securities gains. 
Unrealized gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income. 
(c) Changes in fair value for Retail Financial Services mortgage servicing rights are reported in mortgage fees and related income. 
(d) Predominantly reported in other income.  
(e) All transfers into and/or out of level 3 are assumed to occur at the beginning of the reporting period. 
(f) Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of total Firm liabilities accounted for at fair value (including liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 22%, 29% and 
25% at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(g) Includes certain assets that are classified within accrued interest receivable and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2009 and 2008.  
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis 
Certain assets, liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, they are not meas-
ured at fair value on an ongoing basis but instead are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances (for example, when there is 

evidence of impairment). The following tables present the assets and liabilities carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets by caption and level 

within the valuation hierarchy (as described above) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, for which a nonrecurring change in fair value has been 

recorded during the reporting period. 
  Fair value hierarchy 
December 31, 2010
 (in millions) 
      Level 1
(d)
      Level 2
(d)
      Level 3
(d)
 Total fair value
 Loans retained
(a)
  $ Š  $ 5,484  $ 690  $ 6,174
 Loans held-for-sale
(b)
   Š    312   3,200   3,512
 Total loans
   Š   5,796
   3,890
   9,
686
 Other real estate owned 
  Š   78   311   389
 Other assets 
  Š   Š   2   2 Total other assets
   Š   78
   313
   391
 Total assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
  $ Š  $ 5,874
  $ 4,203
  $ 10,077
 Accounts payable and other liabilities
(c)
  $ Š  $ 53  $ 18  $ 71
 Total liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
  $ Š  $ 53
  $ 18
  $ 71
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 183 
  Fair value hierarchy 
December 31, 200
9 (in millions)
         
Level 1
  Level 2
   
Level 3
 Total fair value
 Loans retained
(a)
  $ Š  $ 4,544  $ 1,137      $  5,681
Loans held-for-sale
(b)
   Š   601   1,029   1,630
Total loans
   Š   5,145   2,166   7,311
Other real estate owned 
  Š   307   387   694
Other assets
   Š   Š   184
   184
Total other assets
   Š   307   571   878
Total assets at fair value on a no
nrecurring basis
  $ Š  $ 5,452  $ 2,737  $  8,189
Accounts payable and other liabilities
(c)
  $ Š  $ 87  $ 39  $     126
Total liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
  $ Š  $ 87  $ 39  $     126
(a) Reflects mortgage, home equity and other loans where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral. 
(b) Predominantly includes credit card loans at December 31, 2010. Predominantly includes leveraged lending loans at December 31, 2009. Loans held-for-sale are carried 
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the lower of cost or fair value. 
(c) Represents, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, fair value adjustments associated with $517 million and $648 million, respectively, of unfunded held-for-sale lending-
related commitments within the leveraged lending portfolio. 
(d) In the year ended December 31, 2010, transfers between levels 1, 2 and 3 were not significant. 
The method used to estimate the fair value of impaired collateral-
dependent loans, and other loans where the carrying value is 
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral (e.g., residential 

mortgage loans charged off in accordance with regulatory guid-

ance), depends on the type of collateral (e.g., securities, real 

estate, nonfinancial assets) underlying the loan. Fair value of the 

collateral is estimated based on quoted market prices, broker 

quotes or independent appraisals, or by using a DCF model. For 

further information, see Note 15 on pages 239Œ243 of this Annual 

Report.
Nonrecurring fair value changes  

Th
e following table presents the total change in value of assets 
and liabilities for which a fair value adjustment has been included  

in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended 

December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, related to financial instru-

ments held at those dates. 
 Year ended Dece
mber 31, 
 (in millions) 
  2010
   2009 2008 
Loans retained 
 $ (3,413)
  $ (3,550)       $  (1,159) 
Loans held-for-sale 
  29
   (389) (2,728) 
Total loans
   (3,
384
)   (3,939)   (3,887) 
Other assets 
  25
   (104) (685) 
Accounts payable and 
 other liabilities 
  6
   31 (285) 
Total nonrecurring fair 
 value gains/(losses)  $ (3,353) 
 $ (4,012) $  (4,857) 
In the above table, loans predominantly include: (1) mortgage, home 

equity, and other loans where changes in the carrying value are 

based on the fair value of the underlying collateral; and (2) the 

change in fair value for leveraged lending loans carried on the Con-

solidated Balance Sheets at the lower of cost or fair value. Accounts 

payable and other liabilities predominantly include the change in fair 

value for unfunded lending-related commitments within the lever-

aged lending portfolio. 
Level 3 analysis  
Level 3 assets at December 31, 2010, predominantly include deriva-
tive receivables, mortgage servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ), collateralized 

loan obligations (ﬁCLOsﬂ) held within the available-for-sale securities 

portfolio, trading loans, asset-backed trading securities and private 

equity investments.  
· Derivative receivables included $35.3 billion of interest rate, 
credit, foreign exchange, equity and commodity contracts classi-

fied within level 3 at December 31, 2010. Included within this 

balance was $11.6 billion of structured credit derivatives with 

corporate debt underlying. In assessing the Firm™s risk exposure to 

structured credit derivatives, the Firm believes consideration 

should also be given to derivative liabilities with similar, and 

therefore offsetting, risk profiles. At December 31, 2010, $5.6 

billion of level 3 derivative liabilities had risk characteristics similar 

to those of the derivative receivable assets classified in level 3. 
· Mortgage servicing rights represent the fair value of future cash 

flows for performing specified mortgage servicing activities for 

others (predominantly with respect to residential mortgage loans). 

For a further description of the MSR asset, interest rate risk man-

agement and the valuation methodology used for MSRs, including 

valuation assumptions and sensitivities, see Note 17 on pages 

260Œ263 of this Annual Report. 
· CLOs totaling $13.5 billion were securities backed by corporate 

loans held in the Firm™s AFS securities portfolio. Substantially all of 

these securities are rated ﬁAAA,ﬂ ﬁAAﬂ and ﬁAﬂ and had an av-

erage credit enhancement of 30%. Credit enhancement in CLOs is 

primarily in the form of subordination, which is a form of struc-

tural credit enhancement where realized losses associated with 

assets held by an issuing vehicle are allocated to issued tranches 

considering their relative seniority. For further discussion, see Note 

12 on pages 214Œ218 of this Annual Report.  
· Trading loans totaling $13.1 billion included $4.4 billion of nona-

gency residential mortgage whole loans and commercial mort-

gage loans held in IB for which there is limited price transparency; 

and $4.0 billion of reverse mortgages for which the principal risk 

sensitivities are mortality risk and home prices. The fair value of 

 184 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
the commercial and residential mortgage loans is estimated by 
projecting expected cash flows, considering relevant borrower-
specific and market factors, and discounting those cash flows at 

a rate reflecting current market liquidity. Loans are partially 

hedged by level 2 instruments, including credit default swaps 

and interest rate derivatives, which are observable and liquid. 
Consolidated Balance Sheets changes 
Level 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a nonrecur-

ring basis) were 5% of total Firm assets at December 31, 2010. 
The following describes significant changes to level 3 assets during 
the year. 
For the year ended December 31, 2010
 Level 3 assets decreased by $15.5 billion during 2010, due to the 

following: 
· $11.4 billion decrease in derivative receivables, predominantly 
driven by changes in credit spreads; 
· A net decrease of $3.5 billion due to the adoption of new ac-
counting guidance related to VIEs. As a result of the adoption of 
the new guidance, there was a decrease of $5.0 billion in accrued 

interest and accounts receivable related to retained securitization 

interests in Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts that 

were eliminated upon consolidation, partially offset by an increase 

of $1.5 billion in trading debt and equity instruments;  
· $2.8 billion decrease in trading assets Œ debt and equity instru-
ments, driven by sales, securitizations and transfers of trading 

loans to level 2 due to increased price transparency; 
· $1.9 billion decrease in MSRs. For a further discussion of the 
change, refer to Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of this Annual Re-

port; 
· $2.2 billion increase in nonrecurring loans held-for-sale, largely 
driven by an increase in credit card loans; 
· $1.3 billion increase in private equity investments, largely driven 
by additional follow-on investments and net gains in the portfolio; 

and 
· $1.0 billion increase in asset-backed AFS securities
, predominantly 
driven by purchases of CLOs.
 Gains and Losses 
Gains and losses included in the tables for 2010, 2009 and 2008 

included:  
2010 
Included in the tables for the year ended December 31, 2010
 · $2.3 billion of losses on MSRs; and 
· $1.0 billion gain in private equity, largely driven by gains on 
investments in the portfolio. 
2009 
Included in the tables for the year ended December 31, 2009
 · $11.4 billion of net losses on derivatives, primarily related to the 
tightening of credit spreads; 
· Net losses on trading Œ debt and equity instruments of $671 
million, consisting of $2.1 billion of losses, primarily related to 
residential and commercial loans and MBS, principally driven by 

markdowns and sales, partially offset by gains of $1.4 billion,  

reflecting increases in the fair value of other ABS;  
· $5.8 billion of gains on MSRs; and  
· $1.4 billion of losses related to structured note liabilities, pre-

dominantly due to volatility in the equity markets.  
2008 
Included in the tables for the year ended December 31, 2008
 · Losses on trading-debt and equity instruments of approximately 
$12.8 billion, principally from mortgage-related transactions and 

auction-rate securities; 
· Losses of $6.9 billion on MSRs; 
· Losses of approximately $3.9 billion on leveraged loans;  
· Net gains of $4.6 billion related to derivatives, principally due to 
changes in credit spreads and rate curves; 
· Gains of $4.5 billion related to structured notes, principally due to 
significant volatility in the fixed income, commodities and equity 

markets; and 
· Private equity losses of $638 million. 
For further information on changes in the fair value of the MSRs, see 
Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of this Annual Report. 
Credit adjustments  
When determining the fair value of an instrument, it may be necessary 

to record a valuation adjustment to arrive at an exit price under U.S. 

GAAP. Valuation adjustments include, but are not limited to, amounts 

to reflect counterparty credit quality and the Firm™s own creditworthi-

ness. The market™s view of the Firm™s credit quality is reflected in credit 

spreads observed in the credit default swap market. For a detailed 

discussion of the valuation adjustments the Firm considers, see the 

valuation discussion at the beginning of this Note. 
The following table provides the credit adjustments, excluding the 
effect of any hedging activity, reflected within the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets as of the dates indicated. 
December 31, (in millions)  
 20
10
 2009
  Derivative receivables balance 
 $ 80,481
 $  80,210
  Derivatives CVA
(a)
   (4,362)
 (3,697
 ) 
Derivative payables balance 
  69,219
 60,125
  Derivatives DVA 
  (882)
 (841
 )(d)
 Structured notes balance
(b)(c)
   53,139
 59,064
  Structured notes DVA
   (1,153)
 (685
 )(d)
 (a) Derivatives credit valuation adjustments (ﬁCVAﬂ), gross of hedges, includes 
results managed by credit portfolio and other lines of business within IB. 
(b) Structured notes are recorded within long-term debt, other borrowed funds or 
deposits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, based on the tenor and legal 
form of the note.  
(c)  Structured notes are measured at fair value based on the Firm™s election 
under the fair value option. For further information on these elections, see 

Note 4 on pages 187Œ189 of this Annual Report. 
(d) The prior period has been revised. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 185 
The following table provides the impact of credit adjustments on 
earnings in the respective periods, excluding the effect of any 
hedging activity. 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions)  
  2010
   2009   2008
  Credit adjustments:
        Derivative CVA
(a)
  $ (665)
  $ 5,869 $ (7,561
 ) 
   Derivative DVA 
  41
   (548)
(c)
   789
     Structured note DVA
(b)
   468
   (1,748)
(c)
 1,211
  (a) Derivatives CVA, gross of hedges, includes results managed by credit portfo-
lio and other lines of business within IB.  
(b) Structured notes are measured at fair value based on the Firm™s election 
under the fair value option. For further information on these elections, see 
Note 4 on pages 187Œ189 of this Annual Report. 
(c) The 2009 prior period has been revised. 
Additional disclosures about the fair value of financial 
instruments (including financial instruments not carried at 
fair value) 

U.S. GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of certain 

financial instruments, and the methods and significant assump-
tions used to estimate their fair value. Financial instruments within 
the scope of these disclosure requirements are included in the 

following table. However, certain financial instruments and all 

nonfinancial instruments are excluded from the scope of these 

disclosure requirements. Accordingly, the fair value disclosures 

provided in the following table include only a partial estimate of 
the fair value of JPMorgan Chase™s assets and liabilities. For exam-

ple, the Firm has developed long-term relationships with its cus-

tomers through its deposit base and credit card accounts, 

commonly referred to as core deposit intangibles and credit card 
relationships. In the opinion of management, these items, in the 
aggregate, add significant value to JPMorgan Chase, but their fair 

value is not disclosed in this Note.  
Financial instruments for which carrying value approximates fair value  
Certain financial instruments that are not carried at fair value on 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets are carried at amounts that 
approximate fair value, due to their short-term nature and gen-
erally negligible credit risk. These instruments include cash and 

due from banks; deposits with banks; federal funds sold; securi-

ties purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed 

with short-dated maturities; short-term receivables and accrued 

interest receivable; commercial paper; federal funds purchased; 
securities loaned and sold under repurchase agreements with 
short-dated maturities; other borrowed funds (excluding ad-

vances from the Federal Home Loan Banks (ﬁFHLBsﬂ)); accounts 

payable; and accrued liabilities. In addition, U.S. GAAP requires 

that the fair value for deposit liabilities with no stated maturity 

(i.e., demand, savings and certain money market deposits) be 
equal to their carrying value; recognition of the inherent funding 
value of these instruments is not permitted.  

 186 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair values of financial assets and liabilities. 
   20
10
    
2009
  December 31, (in billions) 
Carrying
 value 
Estimated
 fair value 
Appreciation/
 (depreciation) 
Carrying
 value 
Estimated
 fair value 
Appreciation/
 (depreciation)
  Financial assets 
       Assets for which fair value approximates carrying value 
 $ 49.2
  $ 49.2
  $ Š  $ 89.4  $ 89.4  $    Š
    
Accrued interest and accounts receivable (included 
zero
 and $5.0 at fair value)  
 70.1  70.1  Š 
  67.4   67.4   Š
  Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale 
agreements (included 
$20.3
 and $20.5 at fair value)  
  222.6   222.6   Š 
  195.4   195.4   Š
  Securities borrowed (included 
$14.0
 and $7.0 at fair value)  
 123.6
  123.6
  Š   119.6   119.6   Š
  Trading assets 
  489.9
   489.9
   Š   411.1   411.1   Š
  Securities (included 
$316.3
 and $360.4 at fair value)  
 316.3
  316.3
  Š   360.4   360.4   Š
  Loans (included 
$2.0
 and $1.4 at fair value)
(a)
(b)
   660.7   663.5   2.8 
  601.9   598.3   (3.6
 ) 
Mortgage servicing rights at fair value 
 13.6
  13.6
  Š   15.5   15.5   Š
  Other (included 
$18.2
 and $19.2 at fair value)  
  64.9
   65.0
   0.1
   73.4   73.2   (0.2
 ) 
Total financial assets
  $ 2,010.9
  $ 2,01
3.8
  $ 2.9
  $ 1,934.1  $ 1,930.3  $  (3.8
 ) 
Financial liabilities
        Deposits (included 
$4.4
 and $4.5 at fair value)  
 $ 930.4
  $ 931.5
  $ (1.1)
  $ 938.4  $ 939.5  $  (1.1
 ) 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold 
under repurchase agreements (included 
$4.1
 and  
$3.4 at fair value)  
  276.6   276.6   Š 
  261.4   261.4   Š
  Commercial paper 
  35.4
   35.4
   Š   41.8   41.8   Š
  Other borrowed funds (included 
$9.9
 and $5.6 at fair 
value)  
  57.3   57.2   0.1 
  55.7   55.9   (0.2
 ) 
Trading liabilities 
  146.2
   146.2
   Š   125.1   125.1   Š
  Accounts payable and other liabilities (included 
$0.2
 and 
$0.4 at fair value)  
  138.2   138.2   Š 
  136.8   136.8   Š
  Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs (included 
$1.5
 and $1.4 at fair value)  
  77.6   77.9 (0.3) 
  15.2   15.2   Š
  Long
-term debt and junior subordinated deferrable inte
rest 
debentures (included 
$38.8
 and $49.0 at fair value)  
  247.7   249.0 (1.3) 
  266.3   268.4   (2.1
 ) 
Total financial liabilities
  $ 1,909.4
  $ 1,912.0
  $ (2.6
)  $ 1,840.7  $ 1,844.1  $  (3.4
 ) 
Net 
appreciation/
(depreciation)
    $ 0.
3    $  (7.2
 ) 
(a)
 For originated or purchased loans held for investment, other than PCI loans, the carrying value is the principal amount outstanding, net of the allowance for loan losses, net 
charge-offs, interest applied to principal (for loans accounted for on the cost recovery method), unamortized discounts and premiums, and deferred loan fees or costs. For a 
further discussion of the Firm™s loan accounting framework, see Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual Report.  
(b)
 Fair value is typically estimated using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates the characteristics of the underlying loans (including principal, contractual interest rate 
and contractual fees) and key inputs, including expected lifetime credit losses, interest rates, prepayment rates, and primary origination or secondary market spreads. The dif-

ference between the estimated fair value and carrying value is the result of the different methodologies used to determine fair value as compared to carrying value. For 
example, credit losses are estimated for the asset™s remaining life in a fair value calculation but are estimated for a loss emergence period in a loan loss reserve calcula-
tion; future loan income (interest and fees) is incorporated in a fair value calculation but is generally not considered in a loan loss reserve calculation. For a further dis-
cussion of the Firm™s methodologies for estimating the fair value of loans and lending-related commitments, see pages 171Œ173 of this Note. 
The majority of the Firm™s unfunded lending-related commitments are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets, nor are they actively traded. The carrying value and estimated fair value of the Firm™s wholesale lending-related commitments were as 
follows for the periods indicated. 
   2010
     2009
 December 31, (in billions) 
Carrying
    value
(a)
        Estimated 
        fair value 
Carrying
    value
(a)
  Estimated
 fair value
Wholesale lendi
ng-related commitments 
$  
0.7
 $  
0.9
 $  0.9 
$  1.3
(a) Represents the allowance for wholesale unfunded lending-related commitments. Excludes the current carrying values of the guarantee liability and the offsetting asset 
each recognized at fair value at the inception of guarantees. 
The Firm does not estimate the fair value of consumer lending-related commitments. In many cases, the Firm can reduce or cancel these com-
mitments by providing the borrower prior notice or, in some cases, without notice as permitted by law. For a further discussion of the valuation 
of lending-related commitments, see pages 171Œ173 of this Note. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 187 
Trading assets and liabilities 
Trading assets include debt and equity instruments held for trading 
purposes that JPMorgan Chase owns (ﬁlongﬂ positions), certain 

loans managed on a fair value basis and for which the Firm has 

elected the fair value option, and physical commodities inventories 

that are generally accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value. 

Trading liabilities include debt and equity instruments that the Firm 

has sold to other parties but does not own (ﬁshortﬂ positions). The 

Firm is obligated to purchase instruments at a future date to cover 
the short positions. Included in trading assets and trading liabilities 

are the reported receivables (unrealized gains) and payables (unre-

alized losses) related to derivatives. Trading assets and liabilities 

are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Bal-

ances reflect the reduction of securities owned (long positions) by 

the amount of securities sold but not yet purchased (short posi-

tions) when the long and short positions have identical Committee 

on Uniform Security Identification Procedures (ﬁCUSIPsﬂ). 
 Trading assets and liabilitiesŒaverage balances  
Average trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods indicated. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
  20
10
   2009   2008
 Trading assets Œ debt and equity instruments
(a)
   $ 354,441 
  $ 318,063   $ 384,102
 Trading assets Œ derivative receivables 
  84
,676
   110,457   121,417
 Trading liabilities Œ debt and equity instruments
(a) (b)
      78,159 
     60,224      78,841
 Trading liabilities Œ derivative payables 
  65,714
   77,901   93,200
 (a)
 Balances reflect the reduction of securities owned (long positions) by the amount of securities sold, but not yet purchased (short positions) when the long and short 
positions have identical CUSIPs. 
(b)
 Primarily represent securities sold, not yet purchased.
Note 4 Œ Fair value option 
The fair value option provides an option to elect fai
r value as an 
alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial 
liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and written loan com-

mitments not previously carried at fair value.  
Elections 
Elections were made by the Firm to: 
· Mitigate income statement volatility caused by the differences in 

the measurement basis of elected instruments (for example, cer-

tain instruments elected were previously accounted for on an 

accrual basis) while the associated risk management arrange-

ments are accounted for on a fair value basis; 
· Eliminate the complexities of applying certain accounting models 

(e.g., hedge accounting or bifurcation accounting for hybrid in-

struments); and 
· Better reflect those instruments that are managed on a fair value 

basis. 
 Elections include the following: 

· Loans purchased or originated as part of securitization ware-
housing activity, subject to bifurcation accounting, or man-

aged on a fair value basis. 
· Securities financing arrangements with an embedded deriva-
tive and/or a maturity of greater than one year.  
· Owned beneficial interests in securitized financial assets that 
contain embedded credit derivatives, which would otherwise 

be required to be separately accounted for as a derivative in-

strument. 
· Certain tax credits and other equity investments acquired as 
part of the Washington Mutual transaction.  
· Structured notes issued as part of IB™s client-driven activities. 
(Structured notes are financial instruments that contain em-

bedded derivatives.) 
· Long-term beneficial interests issued by IB™s consolidated 
securitization trusts where the underlying assets are carried at 

fair value. 

 188 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Changes in fair value under the fair value option election 
The following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 
2010, 2009 and 2008, for items for which the fair value election was made. The profit and loss information presented below only includes the 

financial instruments that were elected to be measured at fair value; related risk management instruments, which are required to be measured 

at fair value, are not included in the table.
  2010
   
2009 
   
2008
   Principal 
transactions
 Other 
income 
Total changes 
 in fair value 
recorded 
Principal 
transactions 
Other 
income 
To
tal changes 
 in fair value 
recorded 
Principal 
transactions
 Other 
income 
Total changes 
 in fair value 
recorded 
 December 31, (in millions) 
 Federal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements 
  $ 173 $     Š 
 $ 173 
 $ (553) $     Š 
  $    (553) 
 $ 1,139 
 $ Š  $   1,139 
Securities borrowed  
31 Š 31 
82 Š 82 29 Š 
29 
Trading assets: 
      
  Debt and equity instr
uments,
    excluding loans  
556 (2)
(c)
 554 
619 25
(c)
 644 (870)
 (58)
(c)
 (928) 
 Loans reported as trading assets:   
    
   
         
Changes in instrument
-             specific credit risk  
1,279 (6)
(c)
 1,273 
(300) (177)
(c)
 (477) (9,802)
 (283)
(c)
 (10,085) 
        Other changes in fair value  
(312)
 4,449
(c)
 4,137 
1,132 
3,119
(c)
 4,251 696 
1,178
(c)
 1,874 
Loans:  
     
   
  Changes in instr
ument
-specific 
    credit risk  
95 Š 95 
(78) Š (78) (1,991)
 Š (1,991) 
     Other changes in fair value  
90 Š 90 
(343) Š (343) (42)
 Š (42) 
Other assets 
Š (263)
(d)
 (263) 
Š (731)
(d)
 (731) Š (660)
(d)
 (660) 
Deposits
(a)
 (564)
 Š (564) 
(770) Š (770) (132)
 Š (132) 
Federal funds purchased and secur
ities 
loaned or sold under repurchase 
agreements  
(29)
 Š (29) 
116  Š 116 (127)
 Š (127) 
Other borrowed funds
(a)
  
123 Š 123 
(1,287) Š (1,287) 1,888 Š 
1,888 
Trading liabilities 
(23)
 Š (23) 
(3)  Š (3) 35 Š 
35 
Beneficial interests issued by 
 consolidated VIEs  
(12)
 Š (12) 
(351) Š (351) 355 Š 
355 
Other liabilities  
(9)
 8(d)
 (1) 
64 Š 64 Š Š 
Š Long-term debt: 
  
   
   
 Changes in instrument
-specific 
    credit risk
(a)
  
400 Š 400 
(1,704)  Š (1,704) 1,174 Š 
1,174 
 Other changes in fair value
(b)
  
1,297 Š 1,297 
(2,393)  Š (2,393) 16,202 Š 16,202 
(a)
 Total changes in instrument-specific credit risk related to structured notes were $468 million, $(1.7) billion and $1.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 
2008, respectively. These totals include adjustments for structured notes classified within deposits and other borrowed funds, as well as long-term debt. The 2009 prior period 
has been revised. 
(b)
 Structured notes are debt instruments with embedded derivatives that are tailored to meet a client™s need for derivative risk in funded form. The embedded derivative is the 
primary driver of risk. The 2008 gain included in ﬁOther changes in fair valueﬂ results from a significant decline in the value of certain structured notes where the embedded 
derivative is principally linked to either equity indices or commodity prices, both of which declined sharply during the third quarter of 2008. Although the risk associated with 
the structured notes is actively managed, the gains reported in this table do not include the income statement impact of such risk management instruments. 
(c)
 Reported in mortgage fees and related income. 
(d)
 Reported in other income. 
Determination of instrument-specific credit risk for items 
for which a fair value election was made 
The following describes how the gains and losses included in earnings 

during 2010, 2009 and 2008, which were attributable to changes in 
instrument-specific credit risk, were determined. 
· Loans and lending-related commitments: For floating-rate instru-
ments, all changes in value are attributed to instrument-specific 
credit risk. For fixed-rate instruments, an allocation of the changes 
in value for the period is made between those changes in value 

that are interest rate-related and changes in value that are credit-

related. Allocations are generally based on an analysis of bor-
rower-specific credit spread and recovery information, where 
available, or benchmarking to similar entities or industries. 
· Long-term debt: Changes in value attributable to instrument-
specific credit risk were derived principally from observable 
changes in the Firm™s credit spread. 
· Resale and repurchase agreements, securities borrowed agree-
ments and securities lending agreements: Generally, for these 

types of agreements, there is a requirement that collateral be 

maintained with a market value equal to or in excess of the prin-
cipal amount loaned; as a result, there would be no adjustment or 
an immaterial adjustment for instrument-specific credit risk related 

to these agreements. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 189 
Difference between aggregate fair value and aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding 
 The following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding 
as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, for loans, long-term debt and long-term beneficial interests for which the fair value option has been elected. 
   2010 
   
2009 
  Contractual 
principal 
outstanding Fair value 
Fair value 
over/(under) 
contractual 
principal 
outstanding 
Contractual 
principal 
outstanding Fair value 
 Fair value 
 over/(under)
  contractual
  principal 

 outstanding
        December 31, (in millions)
  Loans
        Performing loans 90 days or more past due  
         Loans reported as trading assets 
 $ Š  $ Š  $ Š 
 $ Š  $ Š  $          Š
     Loans 
  Š   Š   Š 
  Š   Š 
Š  Nonaccrual loans 
          Loans reported as trading assets 
  5,246   1,239   (4,007) 
  7,264   2,207 
(5,057
 ) 
   Loans 
  927   132   (795) 
  1,126   151 
(975
 ) 
Subtotal
   6,173   1,371   (4,802) 
  8,390   2,358 
(6,032
 ) 
All other performing loans 
          Loans reported as trading assets 
  39,490   33,641   (5,849) 
  35,095   29,341 
(5,754
 ) 
   Loans 
  2,496   1,434   (1,062) 
  2,147   1,000 
(1,147
 ) 
Total loans
  $ 48,159  $ 36,446  $ (11,713) 
 $ 45,632  $ 32,699  $  (12,933
 ) 
Long-term debt
    
  
  Principal-protected debt 
 $  20,761
(b)
  $ 21,315  $ 554 
 $ 26,765
(b)
  $ 26,378  $       (387
 ) 
Nonprincipal-protected debt
(a)
   NA   17,524   NA 
  NA   22,594 
NA
  Total long-term debt 
   NA  $ 38,839   NA 
  NA  $ 48,972 
NA
  Long-term beneficial interests
        Principal-protected debt 
 $ 49  $ 49  $ Š 
 $ 90  $ 90 $          Š
  Nonprincipal-protected debt
(a)
   NA   1,446   NA 
  NA   1,320 
NA
  Total long-term beneficial interests
   NA  $ 1,495   NA 
  NA  $ 1,410 
NA
  (a) Remaining contractual principal is not applicable to nonprincipal-protected notes. Unlike principal-protected notes, for which the Firm is obligated to return a stated amount of 
principal at the maturity of the note, nonprincipal-protected notes do not obligate the Firm to return a stated amount of principal at maturity, but to return an amount based 
on the performance of an underlying variable or derivative feature embedded in the note. 
(b)  Where the Firm issues principal-protected zero-coupon or discount notes, the balance reflected as the remaining contractual principal is the final principal payment at maturity. 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the contractual amount of letters of credit for which the fair value option was elected was $3.8 billion and $3.7 
billion, respectively, with a corresponding fair value of $6 million at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. For further information regarding off-
balance sheet commitments, see Note 30 on pages 275Œ280 of this Annual Report.
Note 5 Œ Credit risk concentrations 
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of 
customers are 
engaged in similar business activities or activities in the same 
geographic region, or when they have similar economic features 

that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be 

similarly affected by changes in economic conditions.
 JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of
 its credit 
portfolio to assess potential concentration risks and to obtain collat-
eral when deemed necessary. Senior management is significantly 

involved in the credit approval and review process, and risk levels are 
adjusted as needed to reflect management™s risk tolerance. 
In the Firm™s wholesale portfolio, risk concentrations are evaluated 
primarily by industry and monitored regularly on both an aggregate 

portfolio level and on an individual customer basis. Management of 

the Firm™s wholesale exposure is accomplished through loan syndi-
cation and participation, loan sales, securitizations, credit deriva-
tives, use of master netting agreements, and collateral and other 

risk-reduction techniques. In the consumer portfolio, concentrations 

are evaluated primarily by product and by U.S. geographic region, 

with a key focus on trends and concentrations at the portfolio level, 

where potential risk concentrations can be remedied through 

changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. 
The Firm does not believe that its exposure to any particular loan 

product (e.g., option ARMs), industry segment (e.g., commercial 

real estate) or its exposure to residential real estate loans with high 

loan-to-value ratios results in a significant concentration of credit 
risk. Terms of loan products and collateral coverage are included in 
the Firm™s assessment when extending credit and establishing its 
allowance for loan losses. 
For further information regarding onŒbalance sheet credit concen-
trations by major product and/or geography, see Notes 14 and 15 

on pages 220Œ238 and 239Œ243, respectively, of this Annual 

Report. For information regarding concentrations of offŒbalance 

sheet lending-related financial instruments by major product, see 

Note 30 on pages 275Œ280 of this Annual Report.  
Customer receivables representing primarily margin loans to 
prime and retail brokerage clients of $32.5 billion and $15.7 
billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, are included 

in the table below. These margin loans are generally over-

collateralized through a pledge of assets maintained in clients™ 

brokerage accounts and are subject to daily minimum collateral 

requirements. In the event that the collateral value decreases, a 
maintenance margin call is made to the client to provide addi-
tional collateral into the account. If additional collateral is not 

 190 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
provided by the client, the client™s positions may be liquidated by 
the Firm to meet the minimum collateral requirements. As a result 
of the Firm™s credit risk mitigation practices, the Firm does not 
hold any reserves for credit impairment on these agreements as of 

December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
The table below presents both onŒbalance sheet and offŒbalance sheet wholesale- and consumer-related credit exposure by the Firm™s three 
portfolio segments as of December 31, 2010, and 2009.
    2010
    2009
  Credit On-balance sheet Off-balance Credit On-balance sheet  Off-balance
 December 31, (in millions) 
exposure Loans Derivatives 
  sheet
(d)
 exposure Loans Derivatives 
   sheet
(d)
 Wholesale
(a)
         Banks and finance companies 
 $ 65,867  $ 21,562  $ 20,935  $ 23,370 
 $ 54,053  $ 14,396   $ 17,957 $   21,700
Real estate 
  64,351   53,635   868   9,848 
  68,509   57,195   1,112       10,202
Healthcare 
  41,093   6,047   2,121   32,925 
  35,605   4,992   1,917  28,696
State and municipal governments 
  35,808   6,095   5,148   24,565 
  34,726   5,687   4,979  24,060
Asset managers 
  29,364   7,070   7,124   15,170 
  24,920   5,930   6,640   12,350
Consumer products 
  27,508   7,921   1,039   18,548 
  27,004   7,880   1,094   18,030
Oil and gas 
  26,459   5,701   3,866   16,892 
  23,322   5,895   2,309   15,118
Utilities 
  25,911   4,220   3,104   18,587 
  27,178   5,451   3,073   18,654
Retail and consumer services 
  20,882   5,876   796   14,210 
  20,673   5,611   769   14,293
Technology 
  14,348   2,752   1,554   10,042 
  14,169   3,802   1,409   8,958
Machinery and equipment manufacturing 
  13,311   3,601   445   9,265 
  12,759   3,189   456   9,114
Building materials/construction 
  12,808   3,285   295   9,228 
  10,448   3,252   281   6,915
Chemicals/plastics 
  12,312   3,372   350   8,590 
  9,870   2,719   392   6,759
Metals/mining 
  11,426   3,301   1,018   7,107 
  12,547   3,410   1,158   7,979
Business services 
  11,247   3,850   370   7,027 
  10,667   3,627   397   6,643
Central government 
  11,173   1,146   6,052   3,975 
  9,557   1,703   5,501   2,353
Media 
  10,967   3,711   284   6,972 
  12,379   4,173   329   7,877
Insurance 
  10,918   1,103   1,660   8,155 
  13,421   1,292   2,511   9,618
Telecom services 
  10,709   1,524   1,362   7,823 
  11,265   2,042   1,273   7,950
Holding companies 
  10,504   3,885   894   5,725 
  16,018   4,360   1,042   10,616
Transportation 
  9,652   3,754   822   5,076 
  9,749   3,141   1,238   5,370
Securities firms and exchanges 
  9,415   1,722   5,038   2,655 
  10,832   3,457   4,796   2,579
Automotive 
  9,011   2,026   248   6,737 
  9,357   2,510   357   6,490
Agriculture/paper manufacturing 
  7,368   1,918   250   5,200 
  5,801   1,928   251   3,622
Aerospace 
  5,732   516   197   5,019 
  5,254   597   79   4,578
All other
(b)
   140,926   62,917   14,641   63,368 
  137,359   41,838   18,890   76,631
Subtotal 
  649,070   222,510   80,481   346,079 
  627,442   200,077   80,210   347,155
Loans held
-for
-sale and loans at 
   fair value 
  5,123   5,123   Š   Š 
  4,098   4,098   Š   Š
Receivables from customers 
  32,541   Š   Š   Š 
  15,745   Š   Š   Š
Interests in purchased receivables 
  391   Š   Š   Š 
  2,927   Š   Š   Š
Total wholesale
   687,125   227,633   80,481   346,079 
  650,212   204,175   80,210   347,155
Consumer, excluding credit card  
      Home equity Œ senior lien 
  40,436   24,376   Š   16,060 
  46,622   27,376   Š   19,246
Home equity Œ junior lien 
  92,690   64,009   Š   28,681 
  111,280   74,049   Š   37,231
Prime mortgage, including option ARMs
(a)
  75,805   74,539   Š   1,266 
  77,082   75,428   Š   1,654
Subprime mortgage
(a)
   11,287   11,287   Š   Š 
  12,526   12,526   Š   Š
Auto
(a)
   53,613   48,367   Š   5,246 
  51,498   46,031   Š   5,467
Business banking 
  26,514   16,812   Š   9,702 
  26,014   16,974   Š   9,040
Student and other
(a)
   15,890   15,311   Š   579 
  16,915   14,726   Š   2,189
PCI-Home equity 
  24,459   24,459   Š   Š 
  26,520   26,520   Š   Š
PCI-Prime mortgage 
  17,322   17,322   Š   Š 
  19,693   19,693   Š   Š
PCI-Subprime mortgage  
  5,398   5,398   Š   Š 
  5,993   5,993   Š   Š
PCI-option ARMs 
  25,584   25,584   Š   Š 
  29,039   29,039   Š   Š
Loans held-for-sale 
  154   154   Š   Š 
  2,142   2,142   Š   Š
Total consumer, excluding credit card
   389,152   327,618   Š   61,534 
  425,324   350,497   Š   74,827
Credit Card 
        Credit card Œ retained
(a)(c)
   682,751   135,524   Š   547,227 
  647,899   78,786   Š   569,113
Credit card Œ held-for-sale 
  2,152   2,152   Š   Š 
  Š   Š   Š   Š
Total credit card 
  684,903   137,676   Š   547,227 
  647,899   78,786   Š   569,113
Total exposure
 $ 1,761,180  $  692,927   $  80,481  $  954,840 
 $ 1,723,435  $  633,458  $ 80,210 $ 991,095
(a)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon the adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card securitiza-
tion trusts and certain other consumer loan securitization entities, primarily mortgage-related. As a result, related receivables are now recorded as loans on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet. For further information, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(b)
 For more information on exposures to SPEs included in all other, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(c)
  Excludes $84.6 billion of securitized credit card receivables at December 31, 2009. 
(d)
 Represents lending-related financial instruments. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 191 
Note 6 Œ Derivative instruments 
Derivative instruments enable end-users to modify or m
itigate 
exposure to credit or market risks. Counterparties to a derivative 
contract seek to obtain risks and rewards similar to those that 

could be obtained from purchasing or selling a related cash instru-

ment without having to exchange upfront the full purchase or sales 

price. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives for customers 

and also uses derivatives to hedge or manage its own market risk 

exposures. The majority of the Firm™s derivatives are entered into 

for market-making purposes.  
Trading derivatives  
The Firm makes markets in a variety of derivatives in its trading 

portfolios to meet the needs of customers (both dealers and clients) 

and to generate revenue through this trading activity (ﬁclient de-

rivativesﬂ). Customers use derivatives to mitigate or modify interest 

rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity and commodity risks. The Firm 

actively manages the risks from its exposure to these derivatives by 

entering into other derivative transactions or by purchasing or 

selling other financial instruments that partially or fully offset the 

exposure from client derivatives. The Firm also seeks to earn a 

spread between the client derivatives and offsetting positions, and 

from the remaining open risk positions. 
Risk management derivatives  
The Firm manages its market risk exposures using various derivative 

instruments.  
Interest rate contracts are used to minimize fluctuations in earnings 
that are caused by changes in interest rates. Fixed-rate assets and 

liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market value as interest rates 

change. Similarly, interest income and expense increase or decrease 

as a result of variable-rate assets and liabilities resetting to current 

market rates, and as a result of the repayment and subsequent 

origination or issuance of fixed-rate assets and liabilities at current 

market rates. Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are 

related to such assets and liabilities are expected to substantially 

offset this variability in earnings. The Firm generally uses interest 

rate swaps, forwards and futures to manage the impact of interest 

rate fluctuations on earnings.  
Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage the foreign 
exchange risk associated with certain foreign currencyŒ

denominated (i.e., non-U.S.) assets and liabilities and forecasted 

transactions, as well as the Firm™s net investments in certain non-

U.S. subsidiaries or branches whose functional currencies are not 

the U.S. dollar. As a result of fluctuations in foreign currencies, the 

U.S. dollarŒequivalent values of the foreign currencyŒdenominated 

assets and liabilities or forecasted revenue or expense increase or 

decrease. Gains or losses on the derivative instruments related to 

these foreign currencyŒdenominated assets or liabilities, or forecasted 

transactions, are expected to substantially offset this variability.  
Commodities based forward and futures contracts are used to 
manage the price risk of certain inventory, including gold and base 

metals, in the Firm's commodities portfolio. Gains or losses on the 

forwards and futures are expected to substantially offset the depre-
ciation or appreciation of the related inventory. Also in the com-

modities portfolio, electricity and natural gas futures and forwards 

contracts are used to manage price risk associated with energy-

related tolling and load-serving contracts and investments.  
The Firm uses credit derivatives to manage the counterparty credit 
risk associated with loans and lending-related commitments. Credit 

derivatives compensate the purchaser when the entity referenced in 

the contract experiences a credit event, such as bankruptcy or a 

failure to pay an obligation when due. For a further discussion of 

credit derivatives, see the discussion in the Credit derivatives sec-

tion on pages 197Œ199 of this Note.  
For more information about risk management derivatives, see the 
risk management derivatives gains and losses table on page 196 of 

this Annual Report, and the hedge accounting gains and losses 

tables on pages 194Œ195 of this Note.  
Accounting for derivatives 
All free-standing derivatives are required to be recorded on the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. As permitted under U.S. 

GAAP, the Firm nets derivative assets and liabilities, and the related 

cash collateral received and paid, when a legally enforceable mas-

ter netting agreement exists between the Firm and the derivative 

counterparty. The accounting for changes in value of a derivative 

depends on whether or not the transaction has been designated 

and qualifies for hedge accounting. Derivatives that are not desig-

nated as hedges are marked to market through earnings. The 

tabular disclosures on pages 192Œ199 of this Note provide addi-

tional information on the amount of, and reporting for, derivative 

assets, liabilities, gains and losses. For further discussion of deriva-

tives embedded in structured notes, see Notes 3 and 4 on pages 

170Œ187 and 187Œ189, respectively, of this Annual Report. 
Derivatives designated as hedges 
The Firm applies hedge accounting to certain derivatives executed 

for risk management purposes Œ generally interest rate, foreign 

exchange and gold and base metal derivatives. However, JPMorgan 

Chase does not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of the deriva-

tives involved in the Firm™s risk management activities. For exam-

ple, the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to purchased credit 

default swaps used to manage the credit risk of loans and commit-

ments, because of the difficulties in qualifying such contracts as 

hedges. For the same reason, the Firm does not apply hedge ac-

counting to certain interest rate and commodity derivatives used for 

risk management purposes. 
To qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be highly effec-
tive at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being 

hedged. In addition, for a derivative to be designated as a hedge, 

the risk management objective and strategy must be documented. 

Hedge documentation must identify the derivative hedging instru-

ment, the asset or liability or forecasted transaction and type of risk 

to be hedged, and how the effectiveness of the derivative is as-

sessed prospectively and retrospectively. To assess effectiveness, 

the Firm uses statistical methods such as regression analysis, as 

 192 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
well as nonstatistical methods including dollar-value comparisons 
of the change in the fair value of the derivative to the change in the 
fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The extent to which a 

derivative has been, and is expected to continue to be, effective at 

offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged 

item must be assessed and documented at least quarterly. Any 

hedge ineffectiveness (i.e., the amount by which the gain or loss on 

the designated derivative instrument does not exactly offset the 

change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk) must be 

reported in current-period earnings. If it is determined that a deriva-

tive is not highly effective at hedging the designated exposure, 

hedge accounting is discontinued. 
There are three types of hedge accounting designations: fair 
value hedges, cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. 

JPMorgan Chase uses fair value hedges primarily to hedge fixed-

rate long-term debt, AFS securities and gold and base metal 

inventory. For qualifying fair value hedges, the changes in the fair 

value of the derivative, and in the value of the hedged item, for 

the risk being hedged, are recognized in earnings. If the hedge 

relationship is terminated, then the fair value adjustment to the 

hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the 

hedged item and for interest-bearing instruments is amortized to 

earnings as a yield adjustment. Derivative amounts affecting 

earnings are recognized consistent with the classification of the 

hedged item Œ primarily net interest income and principal trans-

actions revenue. 
JPMorgan Chase uses cash flow hedges to hedge the exposure to 
variability in cash flows from floating-rate financial instruments and 

forecasted transactions, primarily the rollover of short-term assets 

and liabilities, and foreign currencyŒdenominated revenue and 

expense. For qualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of 

the change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded in other 

comprehensive income/(loss) (ﬁOCIﬂ) and recognized in the Con-

solidated Statements of Income when the hedged cash flows affect 

earnings. Derivative amounts affecting earnings are recognized 

consistent with the classification of the hedged item Œ primarily 

interest income, interest expense, noninterest revenue and com-

pensation expense. The ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are 

immediately recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is 

terminated, then the value of the derivative recorded in accumu-

lated other comprehensive income/(loss) (ﬁAOCIﬂ) is recognized in 

earnings when the cash flows that were hedged affect earnings. 

For hedge relationships that are discontinued because a forecasted 

transaction is not expected to occur according to the original hedge 

forecast, any related derivative values recorded in AOCI are imme-

diately recognized in earnings. 
JPMorgan Chase uses foreign currency hedges to protect the value 
of the Firm™s net investments in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries or 
branches whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. For 

foreign currency qualifying net investment hedges, changes in the 

fair value of the derivatives are recorded in the translation adjust-

ments account within AOCI.  
Notional amount of derivative contracts 
The following table summarizes the notional amount of derivative 

contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
 Notional amounts
(b)
 December 31, (in billions) 
 2010
   2009
 Interest rate contracts
   Swaps 
 $  
46,2
99
  $ 47,663
Futures and forwards  
  9,298
   6,986
Written options 
  4,075
   4,553
Purchased options  
  3,968
   4,584
Total interest rate contracts 
   63
,640
   63,786
Credit derivatives
(a)
   5,472 
  5,994
Foreign exchange co
ntracts
        
Cross-currency swaps 
  2,568
   2,217
Spot, futures and forwards  
  3,893
   3,578
Written options 
  674
   685
Purchased options  
  649
   699
Total foreign exchange
 co
ntracts 
   7,784
      7,179
Equity contracts
   Swaps  
  116
   81
Futures and forwards  
  49
   45
Written options 
  430
   502
Purchased options  
  377
   449
Total equity contracts 
   972
   1,077
Commodity contracts
     
Swaps  
  349
   178
Spot, futures and forwards  
  170
   113
Written options 
  264
   201
Purchased options  
  254
   205
Total commodity co
ntracts 
   1,037
   697
Total derivative notional amounts
  $  
78,905
  $ 78,733
(a) Primarily consists of credit default swaps. For more information on volumes and 
types of credit derivative contracts, see the Credit derivatives discussion on 
pages 197Œ199 of this Note. 
(b) Represents the sum of gross long and gross short third-party notional deriva-
tive contracts. 
While the notional amounts disclosed above give an indication of 
the volume of the Firm™s derivative activity, the notional amounts 
significantly exceed, in the Firm™s view, the possible losses that 

could arise from such transactions. For most derivative transactions, 

the notional amount does not change hands; it is used simply as a 

reference to calculate payments.  
Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
The following tables summarize derivative fair values as of Decem-

ber 31, 2010 and 2009, by accounting designation (e.g., whether 

the derivatives were designated as hedges or not) and contract type. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 193 
Free-standing derivatives
(a) 
 Derivative receivables 
 Derivative payables 
December 31, 2010
 (in millions) 
Not designated 
 as hedges 
Designated  
as hedges 
Total derivative 
 receivables 
Not 
 designated  
as hedges 
Designated  
as hedges 
Total derivative 
payables 
Trading assets and liabil
ities
        Interest rate  
 $  1,121,703
  $ 6,279
  $ 1,127,982
  $ 1,089,604
  $  840
 $   
1,090,444
  Credit  
  129,729
   Š   129,729
   125,06
1   Š   125,061
  Foreign exchange
(b)
   165,240   3,231  168,471   163,671   1,059  164,730
  Equity  
  43,633
   Š  43,633
   46,399
   Š  46,399
  Commodity  
  59,573   24  59,597   56,397   2,078
(d)
  58,475
  Gross fair value of trading 
assets and liabilities  $ 1,519,878  $ 9,534  $ 1,529,412  $ 1,481,132  $  3,977 $   1,485,109
  Netting adjustment
(c)
    (1,448,931)  
  (1,415,890)
  Carrying value of deriv
ative 
trading assets and trading 
liabilities on the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets 
   $ 80,481  
 $        69,219
    Derivative receivables 
 Derivative payables 
December 31, 2009 
(in millions) 
Not designated 
 as hedges 
Designated  
as hedges 
Total derivative 
 receivables 
Not 
 designated  
as hedges 
Designated  
as hedges 
Total derivative 
payables 
Trading a
ssets and liabil
ities
        Interest rate  
 $ 1,148,901  $ 6,568  $  1,155,469  $  1,121,978  $  427 $    1,122,405
  Credit  
 170,864 
Š   170,864   164,790   Š   164,790
  Foreign exchange
(b)
  141,790 2,497   144,287   137,865   353  138,218
  Equity  
 57,871 
Š   57,871   58,494   Š  58,494
  Commodity  
 36,988 
39   37,027   35,082   194
(d)
  35,276
  Gross fair value of trading 
assets and liabilities 
 $  1,556,414  $ 9,104  $  1,565,518  $  1,518,209  $  974 $    1,519,183
  Netting adjustment
(c)
     (1,485,308)  
  (1,459,058
 ) 
Carrying value of deriv
ative 
trading assets and trading 
liabilities on the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets 
   $       80,210  
 $         60,125
  (a)
 Excludes structured notes for which the fair value option has been elected. See Note 4 on pages 187Œ189 of this Annual Report for further information. 
(b)
 Excludes $21 million of foreign currency-denominated debt designated as a net investment hedge at December 31, 2010. The Firm did not use foreign currency-
denominated debt as a hedging instrument in 2009, and therefore there was no impact as of December, 31, 2009. 
(c)
 U.S. GAAP permits the netting of derivative receivables and payables, and the related cash collateral received and paid when a legally enforceable master netting 
agreement exists between the Firm and a derivative counterparty.  
(d)
 Excludes $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion related to commodity derivatives that are embedded in a debt instrument and used as fair value hedging instruments that are 
recorded in the line item of the host contract (other borrowed funds) for December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Derivative receivables and payables mark-to-market 
The following table summarizes the fair values of derivative receivables and payables, including those designated as hedges, by contract type after 
netting adjustments as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
  Trading assets Œ Derivative receivables
  Trading liabilities Œ Derivative payables
December 31,
 (in millions)
 2010
 2009 
 2010
 2009
 Contract type
     Interest rate
(a)
  
 $ 32,555 
 $ 33,733 
 $ 20,387 
 $  19,688
 Credit
(a)
   7,725 
  11,859 
  5,138 
  6,036
 Foreign exchange 
  25,858
   21,984 
  25,015
   19,818
 Equity 
  4,204
   6,635 
  10,450
   11,554
 Commodity 
  10,139
   5,999 
  8,229
   3,029
 Total 
  $ 80,481
  $ 80,210 
 $ 69,219
  $  60,125
 (a)In 2010, the reporting of cash collateral netting was enhanced to reflect a refined allocation by product. Prior periods have been revised to conform to the current 
presentation. The refinement resulted in an increase to interest rate derivative receivables, and an offsetting decrease to credit derivative receivables, of $7.0 billion, and an 
increase to interest rate derivative payables and a corresponding decrease to credit derivative payables of $4.5 billion as of December 31, 2009.

 194 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The tables that follow reflect the derivative-related income statement impact by accounting designation for the years ended December 31, 
2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Fair value hedge gains and losses  
The following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedge accounting relationships, as well as pretax 
gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives and the related hedged items for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Firm includes 

gains/(losses) on the hedging derivative and the related hedged item in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income
  Income stat
ement impact due to:
  Year ended  
December 31, 2010
 (in millions) 
Derivatives Hedged items 
Total income  
statement impact
(d)
   Hedge 
ineffectiveness
(e)
    Excluded 
    
components
(f)
  Contract type
        
Interest rate
(a)
   $   1,066   $   (454)   $   612 
   $   172   $    440
 Foreign exchange
(b)
   1,357
(g)
   (1,812)   (455) 
   Š   (455) 
Commodity
(c)
   (1,354)   1,882   528 
   Š   528
 Total
   $   1,069
   $   (384)
   $   685
    $  
 172
   $    
513
   Gains/(losses) recorded in income
  Income stat
ement impact due to:
  Year ended  
December 31, 2009 
(in millions) Derivatives Hedged items 
Total income  
statement impact
(d)
   Hedge 
ineffectiveness
(e)
    Excluded 
    
components
(f)
  Contract type
        
Interest rate
(a)
   $   (3,830)   $  4,638   $   808 
   $  (466)   $  1,274 
Foreign exchange
(b)
   (1,421)
(g)
   1,445   24 
   Š   24 
Commodity
(c)
   (430)   399   (31) 
   Š   (31) 
Total
   $   (5,681)   $  6,482   $   801 
   $  (466)   $  1,267 
(a) Primarily consists of hedges of the benchmark (e.g., London Interbank Offered Rate (ﬁLIBORﬂ)) interest rate risk of fixed-rate long-term debt and AFS securities. Gains 
and losses were recorded in net interest income. 
(b) Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of long-term debt and AFS securities for changes in spot foreign currency rates. Gains and losses related to the 
derivatives and the hedged items, due to changes in spot foreign currency rates, were recorded in principal transactions revenue. 
(c) Consists of overall fair value hedges of gold and base metal inventory. Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue. 
(d) Total income statement impact for fair value hedges consists of hedge ineffectiveness and any components excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The 
related amount for the year ended December 31, 2008 was a net gain of $434 million. 
(e) Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument does not exactly offset the gain or loss on the hedged item 
attributable to the hedged risk. 
(f) Certain components of hedging derivatives are permitted to be excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, such as forward points on a futures or forward 
contract. Amounts related to excluded components are recorded in current-period income. 
(g) For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes $278 million and $(1.6) billion of revenue related to certain foreign exchange trading derivatives desig-
nated as fair value hedging instruments, respectively. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 195 
Cash flow hedge gains and losses  
The following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in cash flow hedge accounting relationships, and the pretax 
gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Firm includes the gain/(loss) 

on the hedging derivative in the same line item as the offsetting change in cash flows on the hedged item in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income. 
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss) 
 Year ended  
December 31, 2010
 (in millions) 
Derivatives Œ  
effective portion 
reclassified from 
AOCI to income 
Hedge 
 ineffectiveness 
recorded directly  
in income
(d)
  Total income  
statement impact 
Derivatives Œ  
effective portion 
recorded in OCI 
    
Total change 
    in OCI  
.    for period 
Contract type
       
Interest rate
(a)
  $ 288
(c)
  $ 20  $ 308  $ 388 
 $  100 
Foreign exchange
(b)
   (82)   (3)   (85)   (141) 
  (59) 
Total
  $ 20
6  $ 17  $ 223
  $ 24
7  $    
41   Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss) 
 Year ended  
December 31, 2009 (in millions) 
Derivatives Œ  
effective portion 
reclassified from 
AOCI to income 
Hedge 
 ineffectiveness 
recorded directly  
in income
(d)
  Total income  
statement impact 
Derivatives Œ  
effective portion 
recorded in OCI 
    
Total change 
    in OCI  
.  
    for period
 Contract type
      Interest rate
(a)
  $ (158)
(c)
  $ (62)  $ (220)  $ 61  $   219
Foreign exchange
(b)
   282   Š   282   706   424
Total
  $ 124  $ (62)  $ 62  $ 767  $   643
(a) Primarily consists of benchmark interest rate hedges of LIBOR-indexed floating-rate assets and floating-rate liabilities. Gains and losses were recorded in net interest 
income. 
(b)  Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of nonŒU.S. dollarŒdenominated revenue and expense. The income statement classification of gains and losses 
follows the hedged item Œ primarily net interest income, compensation expense and other expense. 
(c)  In 2010, the Firm reclassified a $25 million loss from accumulated other comprehensive income (
AOCI
) to earnings because the Firm determined that it is 
probable 
that forecasted interest payment cash flows related to certain wholesale deposits will not occur. The Firm did not experience forecasted transactions that failed to  
occur for the year ended December 31, 2009.  
(d)  Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the cumulative gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument exceeds the present value of the cumulative expected 
change in cash flows on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. Hedge ineffectiveness recorded directly in income for cash flow hedges was a net gain of $18 
million for the year ended December 31, 2008. 
Over the next 12 months, the Firm expects that $282 million (after-tax) of net losses recorded in AOCI at December 31, 2010, related to cash 
flow hedges will be recognized in income. The maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is 10 years, and such 
transactions primarily relate to core lending and borrowing activities.   
Net investment hedge gains and losses  
The following table presents hedging instruments, by contract type, that were used in net investment hedge accounting relationships, and the 

pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such instruments for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss) 
 Year ended
 Hedging instruments 
Œ excluded components 
 recorded directly in income
(a)
  Hedging instruments Œ effective portion 
recorded in OCI  
December 31, (in millions) 
 2010 
 2009 
 2010 
2009
Contract type 
    Foreign exchange derivatives 
 $  (139) 
 $  (112) 
 $  (30) 
 $  (259) 
Foreign currency denominated debt 
   Š 
   NA 
   41 
    NA
Total 
 $  (139) 
 $  (112) 
 $  11 
 $  (259) 
(a) Certain components of hedging derivatives are permitted to be excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, such as forward points on a futures or forward 
contract. Amounts related to excluded components are recorded in current-period income. There was no ineffectiveness for net investment hedge accounting relation-
ships during 2010 and 2009. 
 
 196 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Risk management derivatives gains and losses (not designated as 
hedging instruments) 
The following table presents nontrading derivatives, by contract 
type, that were not designated in hedge accounting relationships, 

and the pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives for the 

years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. These derivatives are 

risk management instruments used to mitigate or transform market 

risk exposures arising from banking activities other than trading 

activities, which are discussed separately below. 
Year ended December 31,
   Derivatives gains/(losses) 
   recorded in income 
(in millions)
   2010
 2009
Contract type
   Interest rate
(a)
  $ 4,997 
$  (3,113
 ) 
Credit
(b)
   (237) 
(3,222
 ) 
Foreign exchange
(c)
   (85) 
(197
 ) 
Equity
(b)
   Š 
(8
 ) 
Commodity
(b)
   (24) 
(50
 ) 
Total
  $ 4,651
 $  (6,590
 ) 
(a) Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue, mortgage 
fees and related income, and net interest income. 
(b) Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue. 
(c) Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue and net 
interest income. 
Trading derivative gains and losses 
The Firm has elected to present derivative gains and losses related 
to its trading activities together with the cash instruments with 

which they are risk managed. All amounts are recorded in principal 

transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income for 

the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The amounts below 

do not represent a comprehensive view of the Firm™s trading activi-

ties because they do not include certain revenue associated with 

those activities, including net interest income earned on cash 

instruments used in trading activities and gains and losses on cash 

instruments that are risk managed without derivative instruments. 
Year ended December 31, 
Gains/(losses) recorded in 
principal transactions revenue 
(in millions)
  2010
 2009
Type of instrument
   Interest rate  
 $ (68
3) $   4,375
  Credit 
 4,636
 5,022
  Foreign exchange
(a)
  
 1,854 
2,583
  Equity  
 1,827
 1,475
  Commodity  
  256
 1,329
  Total
  $ 7,
890
 $ 14,784
  (a)
 In 2010, the reporting of trading gains and losses was enhanced to include trading 
gains and losses related to certain trading derivatives designated as fair value hedg-
ing instruments. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the current 

presentation.  
Credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features 
In addition to the specific market risks introduced by each deriva-
tive contract type, derivatives expose JPMorgan Chase to credit risk 

Œ the risk that derivative counterparties may fail to meet their 

payment obligations under the derivative contracts and the collat-

eral, if any, held by the Firm proves to be of insufficient value to 

cover the payment obligation. It is the policy of JPMorgan Chase to 

enter into legally enforceable master netting agreements as well as 

to actively pursue the use of collateral agreements to mitigate 

derivative counterparty credit risk. The amount of derivative receiv-

ables reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets is the fair value 

of the derivative contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable 

master netting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. 

These amounts represent the cost to the Firm to replace the con-

tracts at then-current market rates should the counterparty default.  
While derivative receivables expose the Firm to credit risk, deriva-
tive payables expose the Firm to liquidity risk, as the derivative 

contracts typically require the Firm to post cash or securities 

collateral with counterparties as the mark-to-market (ﬁMTMﬂ) of 

the contracts moves in the counterparties™ favor, or upon speci-

fied downgrades in the Firm™s and its subsidiaries™ respective 

credit ratings. Certain derivative contracts also provide for termi-

nation of the contract, generally upon a downgrade of either the 

Firm or the counterparty, at the fair value of the derivative con-

tracts. The aggregate fair value of net derivative payables that 

contain contingent collateral or termination features triggered 

upon a downgrade was $19.8 billion and $22.6 billion at De-

cember 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for which the Firm has 

posted collateral of $14.6 billion and $22.3 billion, respectively, 

in the normal course of business. At December 31, 2010 and 

2009, the impact of a single-notch and two-notch ratings down-

grade to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries, primarily 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (ﬁJPMorgan Chase 

Bank, N.A.ﬂ), would have required $1.9 billion and $3.5 billion, 

respectively, and $1.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of 

additional collateral to be posted by the Firm. In addition, at 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, the impact of single-notch and 

two-notch ratings downgrades to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its 

subsidiaries, primarily JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., related to 

contracts with termination triggers would have required the Firm 

to settle trades with a fair value of $430 million and $1.0 billion, 

respectively, and $260 million and $270 million, respectively.  
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 197 
The following table shows the current credit risk of derivative receivables after netting adjustments, and the current liquidity risk of derivative 
payables after netting adjustments, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
   Derivative recei
vables
    Derivative
 pa
yables
   December 31, (in millions) 
2010
  2009 
2010
   2009
 Gross derivative fair value 
 $ 1,529,412
  $  1,565,518 
 $ 1,485,109
  $  1,519,183
 Netting adjustment Œ offsetting receivables/payables 
(1,376,969)
   (1,419,840)
   (1,376,969)
   (1,419,840
 ) 
Netting adjustment Œ cash collateral received/paid 
(71,962)
   (65,468)
   (38,921)
   (39,218
 ) 
Carrying value on Consolidated Balance Sheets
  $ 80,481
  $     80,210 
 $ 69,219
  $       60,125
  In addition to the collateral amounts reflected in the table above, at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm had received liquid securi-

ties and other cash collateral in the amount of $16.5 billion and 

$15.5 billion, respectively, and had posted $10.9 billion and $11.7 

billion, respectively. The Firm also receives and delivers collateral at 

the initiation of derivative transactions, which is available as secu-

rity against potential exposure that could arise should the fair value 

of the transactions move in the Firm™s or client™s favor, respectively. 

Furthermore, the Firm and its counterparties hold collateral related 

to contracts that have a non-daily call frequency for collateral to be 

posted, and collateral that the Firm or a counterparty has agreed to 

return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. At December 

31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm had received $18.0 billion and $16.9 

billion, respectively, and delivered $8.4 billion and $5.8 billion, 

respectively, of such additional collateral. These amounts were not 

netted against the derivative receivables and payables in the table 

above, because, at an individual counterparty level, the collateral 

exceeded the fair value exposure at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
Credit derivatives  
Credit derivatives are financial instruments whose value is derived 

from the credit risk associated with the debt of a third-party issuer 

(the reference entity) and which allow one party (the protection 

purchaser) to transfer that risk to another party (the protection 

seller). Credit derivatives expose the protection purchaser to the 

creditworthiness of the protection seller, as the protection seller is 

required to make payments under the contract when the reference 

entity experiences a credit event, such as a bankruptcy, a failure to 

pay its obligation or a restructuring. The seller of credit protection 

receives a premium for providing protection but has the risk that 

the underlying instrument referenced in the contract will be subject 

to a credit event.  
The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of protection in the credit 
derivatives market and uses these derivatives for two primary 

purposes. First, in its capacity as a market-maker in the 

dealer/client business, the Firm actively risk manages a portfolio of 

credit derivatives by purchasing and selling credit protection, pre-

dominantly on corporate debt obligations, to meet the needs of 

customers. As a seller of protection, the Firm™s exposure to a given 

reference entity may be offset partially, or entirely, with a contract 

to purchase protection from another counterparty on the same or 

similar reference entity. Second, the Firm uses credit derivatives to 

mitigate credit risk associated with its overall derivative receivables 

and traditional commercial credit lending exposures (loans and 

unfunded commitments) as well as to manage its exposure to 
residential and commercial mortgages. See Note 3 on pages 170Œ

187 of this Annual Report for further information on the Firm™s 

mortgage-related exposures. In accomplishing the above, the Firm 

uses different types of credit derivatives. Following is a summary of 

various types of credit derivatives. 
Credit default swaps 
Credit derivatives may reference the credit of either a single refer-

ence entity (ﬁsingle-nameﬂ) or a broad-based index. The Firm 

purchases and sells protection on both single- name and index-

reference obligations. Single-name CDS and index CDS contracts 

are OTC derivative contracts. Single-name CDS are used to manage 

the default risk of a single reference entity, while index CDS con-

tracts are used to manage the credit risk associated with the 

broader credit markets or credit market segments. Like the S&P 500 

and other market indices, a CDS index comprises a portfolio of CDS 

across many reference entities. New series of CDS indices are 

periodically established with a new underlying portfolio of reference 

entities to reflect changes in the credit markets. If one of the refer-

ence entities in the index experiences a credit event, then the 

reference entity that defaulted is removed from the index. CDS can 

also be referenced against specific portfolios of reference names or 

against customized exposure levels based on specific client de-

mands: for example, to provide protection against the first $1 

million of realized credit losses in a $10 million portfolio of expo-

sure. Such structures are commonly known as tranche CDS. 
For both single-name CDS contracts and index CDS contracts, upon 
the occurrence of a credit event, under the terms of a CDS contract 

neither party to the CDS contract has recourse to the reference 

entity. The protection purchaser has recourse to the protection 

seller for the difference between the face value of the CDS contract 

and the fair value of the reference obligation at the time of settling 

the credit derivative contract, also known as the recovery value. The 

protection purchaser does not need to hold the debt instrument of 

the underlying reference entity in order to receive amounts due 

under the CDS contract when a credit event occurs. 
Credit-related notes 
A credit-related note is a funded credit derivative where the issuer of 

the credit-related note purchases from the note investor credit protec-

tion on a referenced entity. Under the contract, the investor pays the 

issuer the par value of the note at the inception of the transaction, 

and in return, the issuer pays periodic payments to the investor, 

based on the credit risk of the referenced entity. The issuer also 

repays the investor the par value of the note at maturity unless the 

reference entity experiences a specified credit event. If a credit event 

 198 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
occurs, the issuer is not obligated to repay the par value of the note, 
but rather, the issuer pays the investor the difference between the par 
value of the note and the fair value of the defaulted reference obliga-

tion at the time of settlement. Neither party to the credit-related note 

has recourse to the defaulting reference entity. For a further discus-

sion of credit-related notes, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this 

Annual Report. 
Effective July 1, 2010, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance 
prospectively related to credit derivatives embedded in beneficial 

interests in securitized financial assets, which resulted in the elec-

tion of the fair value option for certain instruments in the AFS 

securities portfolio. The related cumulative effect adjustment in-

creased retained earnings and decreased accumulated other com-

prehensive income by $15 million, respectively, as of July 1, 2010. 
The following table presents a summary of the notional amounts of 
credit derivatives and credit-related notes the Firm sold and pur-

chased as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Upon a credit event, 
the Firm as seller of protection would typically pay out only a per-

centage of the full notional amount of net protection sold, as the 

amount actually required to be paid on the contracts takes into 

account the recovery value of the reference obligation at the time 

of settlement. The Firm manages the credit risk on contracts to sell 

protection by purchasing protection with identical or similar under-

lying reference entities. Other purchased protection referenced in 

the following table includes credit derivatives bought on related, 

but not identical, reference positions (including indices, portfolio 

coverage and other reference points) as well as protection pur-

chased through credit-related notes.  
The Firm does not use notional amounts as the primary measure of 
risk management for credit derivatives, because the notional amount 

does not take into account the probability of the occurrence of a 

credit event, the recovery value of the reference obligation, or related 

cash instruments and economic hedges. 

 Total credit derivatives and credit-related notes 
 Maximum payout/Notional amount 
December 31, 2010
 (in millions)
  Protection sold 
Protection purchased with 
identical underlyings
(c)
 Net protection  
(sold)/purchased
(d)
    Other protection 
    purchased
(e)
 Credit derivatives 
    Credit default swaps 
 $ (2,659,24
0)  $ 2,652,313
  $ (6,927)
  $ 
 32,867
 Other credit derivatives
(a)
   (93,776)   10,016   (83,760)   24,234
 Total credit derivatives
   (2,753,016)
   2,662,329
   (90,687)
   57,101
 Credit-related notes
(b)
   (2,008)   Š   (2,008)   3,327
 Total
  $ (2,755,024)
  $ 2,662,329
  $ (92,695)
 $ 
 60,428
   Maximum payout/Notional amount 
December 31, 2009 
(in millions) 
 Protection sold 
Protection purchased with 
identical underlyings
(c)
 Net protection  
(sold)/purchased
(d)
    Other protection
    purchased
(e)
  
Credit derivatives 
     Credit default swaps 
 $ (2,937,442)  $ 2,978,044  $ 40,602 
 $   28,064
  Other credit derivatives
(a)
   (10,575)   9,290   (1,285) 
  30,473
  Total credit derivatives 
  (2,948,017)   2,987,334   39,317 
  58,537
  Credit-related notes 
  (4,031)   Š   (4,031) 
  1,728
  Total 
 $ (2,952,048)  $ 2,987,334  $ 35,286 
 $   60,265
  (a)
 Primarily consists of total return swaps and credit default swap options. 
(b)
 As a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance, effective July 1, 2010, includes beneficial interests in securitized financial assets that contain embedded credit 
derivatives. 
(c)
 Represents the total notional amount of protection purchased where the underlying reference instrument is identical to the reference instrument on protection sold; the 
notional amount of protection purchased for each individual identical underlying reference instrument may be greater or lower than the notional amount of protection sold. 
(d)
 Does not take into account the fair value of the reference obligation at the time of settlement, which would generally reduce the amount the seller of protection pays to 
the buyer of protection in determining settlement value. 
(e)
 Represents protection purchased by the Firm through single-name and index credit default swap or credit-related notes. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 199 
The following tables summarize the notional and fair value amounts of credit derivatives and credit-related notes as of December 31, 2010 
and 2009, where JPMorgan Chase is the seller of protection. The maturity profile is based on the remaining contractual maturity of the credit 
derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the reference entity on which the credit derivative contract is based. The 
ratings and maturity profile of protection purchased are comparable to the profile reflected below. 
Protection sold Œ credit derivatives and credit-related notes ratings
(a)
 /maturity profile 
December 31, 2010
 (in millions)
 <1 year      1Œ5 years     >5 years 
 Total 
   notional amount Fair value
(b) 
Risk rating of reference entity
      Investment-grade  
 $ (175,618)
  $ (1,194,695)
  $ (336,309)
  $ (1,706,62
2) $ 
 (17,261
) Noninvestment-grade  
  (148,434)
   (702,638)
   (197,330)
   (1,048,402)
  (59,939
) Total 
  $ (324,052)
  $ (1,897,
333
)  $ (533,639)
  $ (2,755,024)
 $  
(77,200
)  December 31, 200
9 (in millions)
 <1 year 1Œ5 years >5 years 
Total 
 notional amount    
Fair value
(b) 
Risk rating of reference entity
      Investment
-grade 
  $  (215,580)
  $ (1,140,133)
  $   (367,015)
  $ (1,722,728)
 $ 
   
(16,607
) Noninvestment
-grade 
   (150,122)
   (806,139)
   (273,059)
   (1,229,320)
  (90,410
) Total 
  $  (365,702)  $ (1,946,272)  $   (640,074)  $ (2,952,048) $  (107,017) 
(a)
  The ratings scale is based on the Firm™s internal ratings, which generally correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody™s. 
(b)
  Amounts are shown on a gross basis, before the benefit of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. 
Note 7 Œ Noninterest revenue  
Investment banking fees 
Th
is revenue category includes advisory and equity and debt under-
writing fees. Advisory fees are recognized as revenue when the 
related services have been performed and the fee has been earned. 

Underwriting fees are recognized as revenue when the Firm has 

rendered all services to the issuer and is entitled to collect the fee 

from the issuer, as long as there are no other contingencies associ-

ated with the fee (e.g., the fee is not contingent upon the customer 

obtaining financing). Underwriting fees are net of syndicate expense; 

the Firm recognizes credit arrangement and syndication fees as 

revenue after satisfying certain retention, timing and yield criteria. 
The following table presents the components of investment bank-
ing fees. 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions)
     2010
      2009 2008
Underwriting:
      
Equity 
 $ 1,589
  $ 2,487  $ 1,477
  
Debt 
  3,172
   2,739   2,094
Total underwriting
   4,761
   5,226   3,571
  
Advisory
(a)
   1,429
   1,861   1,955
Total i
nvest
ment banking fees
  $ 6,190
  $ 7,087  $ 5,526
(a)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon 
adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-administered multi-seller con-
duits. The consolidation of the conduits did not significantly change the Firm™s net income 
as a whole; however, it did affect the classification of items on the Firm™s Consolidated 

Statements of Income. As a result, certain advisory fees were considered inter-company 

and eliminated, and the fees charged by the consolidated multi-seller conduits to its cus-

tomers were classified as lending-and-deposit-related fees. 
Principal transactions 
Principal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized 
gains and losses from trading activities (including physical com-

modities inventories that are generally accounted for at the lower 

of cost or fair value), changes in fair value associated with finan-

cial instruments held by IB for which the fair value option was 

elected, and loans held-for-sale within the wholesale lines of 

business. Principal transactions revenue also includes private 

equity gains and losses. 
The following table presents principal transactions revenue.  
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions)
  2010
  2009 2008
 Trading revenue
  $ 9,
404
  $ 9,870  $ (9,791
) Private equity gains/(losses)
(a)
   1,490
   (74)   (908
) Principal transactions 
  $10,894
  $ 9,796  $(10,699
) (a) Includes revenue on private equity investments held in the Private Equity business 
within Corporate/Private Equity, as well as those held in other business segments. 
Lending- and deposit-related fees  
This revenue category includes fees from loan commitments, 
standby letters of credit, financial guarantees, deposit-related fees 

in lieu of compensating balances, cash management-related activi-
ties or transactions, deposit accounts and other loan-servicing 
activities. These fees are recognized over the period in which the 
related service is provided. 
Asset management, administration and commissions  
This revenue category includes fees from investment management 

and related services, custody, brokerage services, insurance premiums 

and commissions, and other products. These fees are recognized over 

the period in which the related service is provided. Performance-
based fees, which are earned based on exceeding certain benchmarks 
or other performance targets, are accrued and recognized at the end 
of the performance period in which the target is met. 
The following table presents the components of asset management, 
administration and commissions. 
Year ended December 31,
    (in millions) 
 20
10
  2009
 2008
Asset manag
ement:
    Investment management fees 
$ 
  5,632
  $  4,997
 $  5,562
All other asset management fees 
 496
  356
 432
Total asset management fees
  6,128
  5,353
 5,994
Total administration fees
(a)
  2,023
  1,927
 2,452
Commission and other fees:
   Brokerage commissions  
 2,804
  2,904
 3,141
All other commissions and fees  
 2,544
  2,356
 2,356
Total commi
ssions and fees
  5,348
  5,260
 5,497
Total asset management
, 
 administration and commissions
  $13,499
  $12,540
 $13,943
(a)  Includes fees for custody, securities lending, funds services and securities clearance.
 
200 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Mortgage fees and related income 
This revenue category primarily reflects Retail Financial Services™s 
(ﬁRFSﬂ) mortgage banking revenue, including: fees and income 

derived from mortgages originated with the intent to sell; mortgage 
sales and servicing including losses related to the repurchase of 
previously-sold loans; the impact of risk management activities asso-

ciated with the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans and MSRs; and 

revenue related to any residual interests held from mortgage securiti-

zations. This revenue category also includes gains and losses on sales 

and lower of cost or fair value adjustments for mortgage loans held-
for-sale, as well as changes in fair value for mortgage loans origi-
nated with the intent to sell and measured at fair value under the fair 

value option. Changes in the fair value of RFS mortgage servicing 

rights are reported in mortgage fees and related income. Net interest 

income from mortgage loans, and securities gains and losses on AFS 

securities used in mortgage-related risk management activities, are 
recorded in interest income and securities gains/(losses), respectively. 
For a further discussion of MSRs, see Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of 
this Annual Report. 
Credit card income 
This revenue category includes interchange income from credit and 

debit cards. Prior to 2010, this revenue category included servicing 

fees earned in connection with securitization activities. Effective 

January 1, 2010, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit 
card securitization trusts (see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this 
Annual Report) and, as a result, the servicing fees were eliminated 

in consolidation. Volume-related payments to partners and expense 

for rewards programs are netted against interchange income; 

expense related to rewards programs are recorded when the re-

wards are earned by the customer. Other fee revenue is recognized 
as earned, except for annual fees, which are deferred and recog-
nized on a straight-line basis over the 12-month period to which 

they pertain. Direct loan origination costs are also deferred and 

recognized over a 12-month period. In addition, due to the consoli-

dation of Chase Paymentech Solutions in the fourth quarter of 

2008, this category now includes net fees earned for processing 

card transactions for merchants. 
Credit card revenue sharing agreements  
The Firm has contractual agreements with numerous affinity or-

ganizations and co-brand partners, which grant the Firm exclusive 

rights to market to the members or customers of such organizations 

and partners. These organizations and partners endorse the credit 

card programs and provide their mailing lists to the Firm, and they 

may also conduct marketing activities and provide awards under 
the various credit card programs. The terms of these agreements 
generally range from three to 10 years. The economic incentives the 

Firm pays to the endorsing organizations and partners typically 

include payments based on new account originations, charge 

volumes, and the cost of the endorsing organizations™ or partners™ 
marketing activities and awards. 
The Firm recognizes the payments made to the affinity organiza-
tions and co-brand partners based on new account originations as 
direct loan origination costs. Payments based on charge volumes 
are considered by the Firm as revenue sharing with the affinity 

organizations and co-brand partners, which are deducted from 

interchange income as the related revenue is earned. Payments 
based on marketing efforts undertaken by the endorsing organiza-

tion or partner are expensed by the Firm as incurred. These costs 

are recorded within noninterest expense.  
Note 8 Œ Interest income and Interest  
expense 
Interest income and interest expense is recorded in t
he Consoli-
dated Statements of Income and classified based on the nature of 
the underlying asset or liability. Interest income and interest ex-

pense includes the current-period interest accruals for financial 

instruments measured at fair value, except for financial instruments 

containing embedded derivatives that would be separately ac-

counted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP absent the fair value 

option election; for those instruments, all changes in fair value, 

including any interest elements, are reported in principal transac-

tions revenue. For financial instruments that are not measured at 

fair value, the related interest is included within interest income or 

interest expense, as applicable. 
Details of interest income and interest expense were as follows.  
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
  20
10
  2009
   2008
 Interest income
   Loans 
 $ 40,388
 $ 38,704
  $ 38,347
 Securities 
9,540
12,377
 6,344
 Trading assets 
11,007
12,098
 17,236
 Federal funds sold and
 securities
 purchased under resale agreements 
1,786
1,750
 5,983
 Securities borrowed 
175
4 2,297
 Deposits with banks 
345
938
 1,916
 Other assets
(a) 541
479
 895
 Total interest income
(b) 63,782
66,350
 73,018
 Interest expense
    Interest-bearing deposits 
3,424
4,826
 14,546
 Short-term and other liabilities
(c) 2,708
3,845
 10,933
 Long-term debt 
5,504
6,309
 8,355
 Beneficial interests issued by
 consolidated VIEs 
1,145
218
 405
 Total interest expense
(b) 12,781
15,198
 34,239
 Net inte
rest income
  $ 51,001
 $ 51,152
 $ 38,779
 Provision for credit losses 
$ 
16,639
$ 32,015
 $ 19,445
 Provision for credit losses 
Œ accounting 
conformity
(d)
 ŠŠ  1,534
 Total provision for credit losses
  $ 16,639
 $ 32,015
  $ 20,979
 Net interest income after 
 provision
 for
 credit losses
  $ 34,362
 $ 19,137
  $ 17,800
 (a) Predominantly margin loans.  
(b)  Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to 
VIEs. Upon the adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-

sponsored credit card securitization trusts, its Firm-administered multi-seller 

conduits and certain other consumer loan securitization entities, primarily 
mortgage-related. The consolidation of these VIEs did not significantly change 
the Firm™s total net income. However, it did affect the classification of items 

on the Firm™s Consolidated Statements of Income; as a result of the adoption 
of the guidance, certain noninterest revenue was eliminated in consolidation, 
offset by the recognition of interest income, interest expense, and provision 

for credit losses. 
(c)  Includes brokerage customer payables.  
(d) 2008 includes an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to 
the acquisition of Washington Mutual™s banking operations. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 201 
Note 9 Œ Pension and other postretirement 
employee benefit plans 
The Firm™s defined benefit pension plans and its othe
r postretire-
ment employee benefit (ﬁOPEBﬂ) plans (collectively the ﬁPlansﬂ) 
are accounted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP
 for retirement 
be
nefits.
 Defined benefit pension plans  
The Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S. defined benefit 

pension plan that provides benefits to substantially all U.S. employ-

ees. The U.S. plan employs a cash balance formula in the form of 

pay and interest credits to determine the benefits to be provided at 

retirement, based on eligible compensation and years of service. 

Employees begin to accrue plan benefits after completing one year 

of service, and benefits generally vest after three years of service. In 

November 2009, the Firm announced certain changes to the pay 

credit schedule and amount of eligible compensation recognized 

under the U.S. plan effective February 1, 2010. The Firm also offers 

benefits through defined benefit pension plans to qualifying em-

ployees in certain non-U.S. locations based on factors such as 

eligible compensation, age and/or years of service.  
It is the Firm™s policy to fund the pension plans in amounts suffi-
cient to meet the requirements under applicable laws. On January 

15, 2009, and August 28, 2009, the Firm made discretionary cash 

contributions to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan of $1.3 billion 

and $1.5 billion, respectively. The amount of potential 2011 contri-

butions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, if any, is not 

determinable at this time. The expected amount of 2011 contribu-

tions to the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans is $166 million 

of which $154 million is contractually required.  
JPMorgan Chase also has a number of defined benefit pension 
plans not subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income 

Security Act. The most significant of these plans is the Excess 

Retirement Plan, pursuant to which certain employees earn pay and 

interest credits on compensation amounts above the maximum 

stipulated by law under a qualified plan. The Firm announced that, 

effective May 1, 2009, pay credits would no longer be provided on 

compensation amounts above the maximum stipulated by law. The 

Excess Retirement Plan had an unfunded projected benefit obliga-

tion in the amount of $266 million and $267 million, at December 

31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  
Defined contribution plans 
JPMorgan Chase currently provides two qualified defined contribu-

tion plans in the U.S. and other similar arrangements in certain 

non-U.S. locations, all of which are administered in accordance 

with applicable local laws and regulations. The most significant of 

these plans is The JPMorgan Chase 401(k) Savings Plan (the 

ﬁ401(k) Savings Planﬂ), which covers substantially all U.S. employ-

ees. The 401(k) Savings Plan allows employees to make pretax and 

Roth 401(k) contributions to tax-deferred investment portfolios. The 

JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Fund, which is an investment 

option under the 401(k) Savings Plan, is a nonleveraged employee 

stock ownership plan.  
The Firm matched eligible employee contributions up to 5% of 
benefits-eligible compensation (e.g., base pay) on a per pay period 

basis through April 30, 2009, and then amended the plan to pro-

vide that thereafter matching contributions would be made annu-

ally. Employees begin to receive matching contributions after 

completing a one-year-of-service requirement. Employees with total 

annual cash compensation of $250,000 or more are not eligible for 

matching contributions. Matching contributions are immediately 

vested for employees hired before May 1, 2009, and will vest after 

three years of service for employees hired on or after May 1, 2009.  

The 401(k) Savings Plan also permits discretionary profit-sharing 

contributions by participating companies for certain employees, 

subject to a specified vesting schedule.  
Effective August 10, 2009, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. became the 
sponsor of the WaMu Savings Plan and that plan™s assets were 

merged into the 401(k) Savings Plan effective March 31, 2010. 
OPEB plans 
JPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and life insurance 

benefits to certain retirees and postretirement medical benefits to 

qualifying U.S. employees. These benefits vary with length of ser-

vice and date of hire and provide for limits on the Firm™s share of 

covered medical benefits. The medical and life insurance benefits 

are both contributory. Postretirement medical benefits also are 

offered to qualifying U.K. employees.  
JPMorgan Chase™s U.S. OPEB obligation is funded with corporate-
owned life insurance (ﬁCOLIﬂ) purchased on the lives of eligible 

employees and retirees. While the Firm owns the COLI policies, 

COLI proceeds (death benefits, withdrawals and other distributions) 

may be used only to reimburse the Firm for its net postretirement 

benefit claim payments and related administrative expense. The 

U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.  
 
202 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets and funded status amounts reported on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets for the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. 
Defined benefit pension plans
   As of or for the year ended December 31,  
U.S.  
   Non-U.S.
    OPEB plans
(f)
 (in millions) 
 2010
     2009 
  2010
      2009 
    
 2010
       2009
 Change in benefit obligation
       Benefit obligation, beginning of year  
 $ (7,977)
  $ (7,796) 
  $ (2,536)
   $ (2,007) 
 $ (1,025)
 $ (1,095) 
Benefits earned during the year 
(230)
 (313) 
(30)
 (30) 
(2)
 (3) 
Interest cost on benefit obligations 
(468)
 (514) 
(128)
 (122) 
(55)
 (64) 
Plan amendments 
Š 384 
10
 1 
Š Š Business combinations 
Š (4)
(b)
 (12)
(b)
 Š 
Š (40)
(b)
 Employee contributions 
NA
 NA 
(4)
 (3) 
(70)
 (64) 
Net gain/(loss) 
(249)
 (408) 
(71)
 (287) 
13
 101 
Benefits paid 
604
 674 
96
 95 
168
 160 
Expected Medicare Part D subsidy receipts 
NA
 NA 
NA
 NA 
(10)
 (9) 
Curtailments 
Š Š Š 1 
Š (7) 
Settlements 
Š Š 5 4 
Š Š Special termination benefits 
Š Š (1)
 (1) 
Š Š Foreign exchange impact and other 
Š Š 71
 (187) 
1 (4) 
Benefit obligation, end of year
  $ (8,320)
  $ (7,977) 
 $ (2,600)
  $ (2,536) 
 $ (980)
 $ (1,025) 
Change in plan 
assets
      Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 
 $ 10,218
  $ 6,948 
 $ 2,432
  $ 2,008 
 $ 1,269
 $  1,126 
Actual return on plan assets 
1,179
 1,145 
228
 218 
137
 172 
Firm contributions 
35
 2,799 
157
 115 
3 2Employee contributions 
Š Š 4 3 
Š ŠBenefits paid 
(604)
 (674) 
(96)
 (95) 
(28)
 (31) 
Settlements 
Š Š (5)
 (4) 
Š ŠForeign exchange impact and other 
Š Š (73)
 187 
Š ŠFair value of plan assets, end of year
  $  10,828
(c)(d)
  $  10,218
(c)(d)
  $ 2,647
(d)
  $  2,432
(d)
  $  1,381
 $  1,269 
Funded/(unfunded) status
(a) 
  $ 2,508
(e)
  $ 2,241
(e)
  $ 47
  $ (104)
   $ 401
 $     244 
Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year
  $ (8,2
71
)  $ (7,964) 
 $ (2,576)
  $ (2,510) 
  NA
 NA 
(a) Represents overfunded plans with an aggregate balance of $3.5 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and underfunded plans with an 
aggregate balance of $561 million and $623 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(b) Represents change resulting from the RBS Sempra Commodities business in 2010 and from the Washington Mutual plan in 2009.  
(c) At December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately $385 million and $332 million, respectively, of U.S. plan assets included participation rights under participating 
annuity contracts. 
(d) At December 31, 2010 and 2009, defined benefit pension plan amounts not measured at fair value include $52 million and $82 million, respectively, of accrued receiv-
ables, and $187 million and $189 million, respectively, of accrued liabilities, for U.S. plans; and $9 million and $8 million, respectively, of accrued receivables for non-
U.S. plans. 
(e) Does not include any amounts attributable to the Washington Mutual Qualified Pension plan. The disposition of this plan remained subject to litigation and was not 
determinable. 
(f) Includes an unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of $36 million and $29 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for the U.K. plan. 
Gains and losses 
For the Firm™s defined benefit pension plans, fair value is used to 
determine the expected return on plan assets. For the Firm™s OPEB 

plans, a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value over 

a five-year period is used to determine the expected return on plan 

assets. Amortization of net gains and losses is included in annual 

net periodic benefit cost if, as of the beginning of the year, the net 

gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit 

obligation or the fair value of the plan assets. Any excess, as well 
as prior service costs, are amortized over the average future service 

period of defined benefit pension plan participants, which for the 

U.S. defined benefit pension plan is currently nine years. For OPEB 

plans, any excess net gains and losses also are amortized over the 

average future service period, which is currently five years; how-

ever, prior service costs are amortized over the average years of 

service remaining to full eligibility age, which is currently three 

years.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 203 
The following table presents pretax pension and OPEB amounts recorded in AOCI.
 Defined benefit pension plans
   December 31,
  U.S.
     Non
-U.S.
    OPEB plans
 (in millions) 
 2010
     2009 
  2010
      2009 
    
 2010
       2009
  Net gain/(loss)  
 $ (2,627)
   $ (3,039) 
 $ (566)
   $ (666) 
 $ (119)   
 $ (171
 ) Prior service credit/(cost) 
  321
   364 
  13
   3 
  9 22
  Accumulated other comprehensive i
ncome/
 (loss), pretax, end of year
  $ (2,306) 
  $ (2,675) 
 $ (553)   
   $ (663) 
 $ (110)
 $ (149
 ) The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income and other com-
prehensive income for the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension, defined contribution and OPEB plans. 
Pension
 plans
    U.S.
     Non
-U.S.
     OPEB plans
  Year ended December 31, (in millions)
 2010
  2009   2008 
2010
  2009  2008 
2010
 2009 2008 
Components of net periodic benefit cost
         
 Benefits earned during the year 
 $ 230
  $ 313 
 $ 278 
 $ 31
  $ 28 
 $ 29 
 $ 2  $ 3 
 $ 5 
Interest cost on benefit obligations 
468
 514 488 
128
 122 142 
55
 65 74 
Expected return on plan assets 
(742)
 (585) (719) 
(126)
 (115) (152) 
(9
6) (97) (98) 
Amortization: 
   
   
   
Net loss 
225
 304 Š 
56
 44 25 
(1)
 Š Š 
Prior service cost/(credit) 
(43)
 4 4 
(1)
 Š Š 
(1
3) (14) (16) 
Curtailment (gain)/loss 
Š 1 1 
Š Š Š 
Š 5 4 
Settlement (gain)/loss 
Š Š Š 
1 1 Š 
Š Š Š 
Special termination benefits 
Š Š Š 
1 1 3 
Š Š Š 
Net periodic benefit cost
 138
 551 52 
90
 81 47 
(53)
 (38) (31) 
Other defined benefit pension plans
(a)
 14 
15 11 
11 
12 14 
NA 
NA NA 
Total define
d benefit plans
 152
 566 63 
101
 93 61 
(53)
 (38) (31) 
Total defined contribution plans 
332
 359 263 
251
 226 286 
NA
 NA NA 
Total pension and OPEB cost included 
 in
 compensation expense
  $ 484 
$ 925 
 $ 326 
 $ 352 
 $ 319 
 $ 347 
 $ (53) 
 $ (38) 
 $ (31) 
Cha
nges in plan assets and benefit 
 obligations recognized in other  
comprehensive income
  Net (gain)/loss arising during the year 
 $ (187)
  $ (168) 
 $ 3,243 
 $ (21)
  $ 183 
 $ 235 
 $ (54)
   $ (176) 
 $ 248 
Prior service credit arising during the year 
Š (384) Š 
(10)
 (1) Š 
Š Š Š 
Amortization of net loss 
(225)
 (304) Š 
(56)
 (44) (27) 
1 Š Š 
Amortization of prior service (cost)/credit 
43
 (6) (5) 
1 Š Š 
13
 15 15 
Curtailment (gain)/loss 
Š Š Š 
Š Š Š 
Š 2 3 
Settlement loss/(gain) 
Š Š Š 
(1)
 (1) Š 
Š Š Š 
Foreign exchange impact and other 
Š 18 Š 
(23)
 36 (150) 
1 (1) 3 
Total recognized in other comprehe
nsive 
income
 (369) 
(844) 3,238 
(110) 
173 58 
(39) 
(160) 269 
Total recognized in net per
iodic benefit 
 cost and other comprehensive income
  
 $ (231)  
$ (293) 
 $ 3,290 
 $ (20) 
 $ 254 
 $  105 
 $ (92) 
 $ (198)  $ 238 
(a) Includes various defined benefit pension plans, which are individually immaterial.  
 The estimated pretax amounts that will be amortized f
rom AOCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2011 are as follows.  
Defined benefit pe
nsion plans
  OPEB plans
  (in millions)
 U.S.
 Non
-U.S.
 U.S.
 Non
-U.S.
 Net loss
  $ 168
  $ 44
  $ Š $ 
 Š Prior service cost/(credit)
   (43)
   (1)
   (8)
   Š Total
  $ 125
  $ 43
  $ (8)
  $  Š The following table presents the actual rate of return on plan assets for the U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.  
U.S.
  Non
-U.S.
 December 31, 
2010
 2009 
2008 
    
 2010
       2009 
2008 
Actual rate of return: 
      Defined benefit pension plans 
   
12.23%
    13.78%    (25.17)% 
   
0.77
-10.65
%  3.17-22.43% (21.58)-5.06% 
OPEB plans 
11.23
 15.93 (17.89) 
 NA
  NA  NA 
 
204 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Plan assumptions 
JPMorgan Chase™s expected long-term rate of return for U.S. de-
fined benefit pension and OPEB plan assets is a blended average of 

the investment advisor™s projected long-term (10 years or more) 

returns for the various asset classes, weighted by the asset alloca-

tion. Returns on asset classes are developed using a forward-

looking building-block approach and are not strictly based on 

historical returns. Equity returns are generally developed as the sum 

of inflation, expected real earnings growth and expected long-term 

dividend yield. Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of 

inflation, real bond yield and risk spread (as appropriate), adjusted 

for the expected effect on returns from changing yields. Other 

asset-class returns are derived from their relationship to the equity 

and bond markets. Consideration is also given to current market 

conditions and the short-term portfolio mix of each plan; as a 

result, in 2010 the Firm generally maintained the same expected 

return on assets as in the prior year. 
For the U.K. defined benefit pension plans, which represent the 
most significant of the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, 

procedures similar to those in the U.S. are used to develop the 

expected long-term rate of return on defined benefit pension plan 
assets, taking into consideration local market conditions and the 

specific allocation of plan assets. The expected long-term rate of 

return on U.K. plan assets is an average of projected long-term 

returns for each asset class. The return on equities has been se-

lected by reference to the yield on long-term U.K. government 

bonds plus an equity risk premium above the risk-free rate. The 

return on ﬁAAﬂ-rated long-term corporate bonds has been taken as 

the average yield on such bonds. 
The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation under 
the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans was selected by 

reference to the yields on portfolios of bonds with maturity dates 

and coupons that closely match each of the plan™s projected cash 

flows; such portfolios are derived from a broad-based universe of 

high-quality corporate bonds as of the measurement date. In years 

in which these hypothetical bond portfolios generate excess cash, 

such excess is assumed to be reinvested at the one-year forward 

rates implied by the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve published as 

of the measurement date. The discount rate for the U.K. defined 

benefit pension and OPEB plans represents a rate implied from the 

yield curve of the year-end iBoxx £ corporate ﬁAAﬂ 15-year-plus 

bond index. 
The following tables present the weighted-average annualized actuarial assumptions for the projected and accumulated postretirement benefit 

obligations, and the components of net periodic benefit costs, for the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, as of 

and for the periods indicated. 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations 
 U.S.
  Non
-U.S.
  December 31, 
 2010
         2009 
     
 2010
     2009
 Discount rate: 
          Defined benefit pension plans 
 5.5
0%  6.00% 
    
1.60
-5.50%
 2.00-5.70% 
      OPEB plans 
 5.5
0  6.00 
 5.50
 5.70 
Rate of compensation increase 
 4.0
0  4.00 
 3.00
-4.50
 3.00-4.50 
Health care cost trend rate: 
          Assumed for next year 
 7.0
0  7.75 
 6.50
 5.40 
      Ultimate 
 5.0
0  5.00 
 6.00
 4.50 
      Year when rate will reach ultimate 
 2017
  2014 
 2015
 2014 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs 
 U.S.
  Non
-U.S.
  Year ended December 31, 
 2010
 2009  2008 
  2010
  2009 2008
  Discount rate:  
             Defined benefit pension plans 
6.00%
  6.65%  6.60% 
 2.00
-5.70%
  2.00-6.20%  2.25-5.80
 % 
      OPEB plans 
6.0
0  6.70  6.60 
 5.70
  6.20  5.80
  Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets: 
             Defined benefit pension plans 
7.50
  7.50  7.50 
  2.40
-6.20
  2.50-6.90  3.25-5.75
        OPEB plans 
7.00
  7.00  7.00 
 NA
  NA  NA
  Rate of compensation increase 
4.00
  4.00  4.00 
  3.00
-4.50
  3.00-4.00  3.00-4.25
  Health care cost trend rate: 
             Assumed for next year 
7.75
  8.50  9.25 
 5.40
  7.00  5.75
        Ultimate 
5.00
  5.00  5.00 
 4.50
  5.50  4.00
        Year when rate will reach ultimate 
2014
  2014  2014 
 2014
  2012  2010
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 205 
The following table presents the effect of a one-percentage-point 
change in the assumed health care cost trend rate on JPMorgan 
Chase™s total service and interest cost and accumulated postretire-

ment benefit obligation. 
 1-Percentage
- 1-Percentage
- Year ended December 31, 2010
 point
 point
 (in millions)
 increase
 decrease
 Effect on total se
rvice and interest cost
 $  
2 $  
(2)
 Effect on accumulated postretirement 
benefit obligation 
36 
(31) 
At December 31, 2010, the Firm decreased the discount rates used 

to determine its benefit obligations for the U.S. defined benefit 

pension and OPEB plans in light of current market interest rates, 

which will result in an increase in expense of approximately $21 

million for 2011. The 2011 expected long-term rate of return on 

U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets and U.S. OPEB plan assets 

are 7.50% and 6.25%, respectively, as compared to 7.50% and 

7.00% in 2010
. 
The initial health care benefit obligation trend 
assumption declined from 7.75% in 2010 to 7.00% in 2011. The 

ultimate health care trend assumption will remain at 5.00% in 

2011, but the year to ultimate was adjusted from 2014 to 2017.  

As of December 31, 2010, the interest crediting rate assumption 

and the assumed rate of compensation increase remained at 

5.25% and 4.00%, respectively.  
JPMorgan Chase™s U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan 
expense is sensitive to the expected long-term rate of return on 

plan assets and the discount rate. With all other assumptions held 

constant, a 25-basis point decline in the expected long-term rate of 

return on U.S. plan assets would result in an increase of approxi-

mately an aggregate $30 million in 2011 U.S. defined benefit 

pension and OPEB plan expense. A 25-basis point decline in the 

discount rate for the U.S. plans would result in an increase in 2011 

U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expense of approxi-

mately an aggregate $11 million and an increase in the related 

benefit obligations of approximately an aggregate $169 million. A 

25-basis point increase in the interest crediting rate for the U.S. 

defined benefit pension plan would result in an increase in 2011 

U.S. defined benefit pension expense of approximately $19 million 

and an increase in the related projected benefit obligations of 

approximately $76 million. A 25-basis point decline in the discount 

rates for the non-U.S. plans would result in an increase in the 2011 

non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan expense of approximately 

$11 million.  
Investment strategy and asset allocation 
The Firm™s U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets are held in trust 

and are invested in a well-diversified portfolio of equity and fixed 

income securities, real estate, cash and cash equivalents, and alterna-

tive investments (e.g., hedge funds, private equity funds, and real 

estate funds). Non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets are held 

in various trusts and are also invested in well-diversified portfolios of 

equity, fixed income and other securities. Assets of the Firm™s COLI 

policies, which are used to partially fund the U.S. OPEB plan, are held 
in separate accounts with an insurance company and are invested in 

equity and fixed income index funds.  
The investment policy for the Firm™s U.S. defined benefit pension 
plan assets is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate 

to the needs and goals using a global portfolio of various asset 

classes diversified by market segment, economic sector, and issuer. 

Periodically the Firm performs a comprehensive analysis on the U.S. 

defined benefit pension plan asset allocations, incorporating pro-

jected asset and liability data, which focuses on the short-and long-

term impact of the asset allocation on cumulative pension expense, 

economic cost, present value of contributions and funded status. 

Currently, approved asset allocation ranges are: U.S. equity 15Œ

35%, international equity 15Œ25%, debt securities 10Œ30%, 

hedge funds 10Œ30%, real estate 5Œ20%, and private equity 5Œ

20%. Asset allocations are not managed to a specific target but 

seek to shift asset class allocations within these stated ranges. 

Assets are managed by a combination of internal and external 

investment managers. Asset allocation decisions also incorporate 

the economic outlook and anticipated implications of the macro-

economic environment on the various asset classes and managers. 

Maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity, which takes into 

consideration forecasted requirements for cash is a major consid-

eration in the asset allocation process. The Firm regularly reviews 

the asset allocations and all factors that continuously impact the 

portfolio, which is rebalanced when deemed necessary.  
For the U.K. defined benefit pension plans, which represent the 
most significant of the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the 

assets are invested to maximize returns subject to an appropriate 

level of risk relative to the plans™ liabilities. In order to reduce the 

volatility in returns relative to the plan™s liability profiles, the U.K. 

defined benefit pension plans™ largest asset allocations are to debt 

securities of appropriate durations. Other assets, mainly equity 

securities, are then invested for capital appreciation, to provide 

long-term investment growth. Similar to the U.S. defined benefit 

pension plan, asset allocations for the U.K. plans are reviewed and 

rebalanced on a regular basis.  
Investments held by the Plans include financial instruments which 
are exposed to various risks such as interest rate, market and credit 

risks. Exposure to a concentration of credit risk is mitigated by the 

broad diversification of both U.S. and non-U.S. investment instru-

ments. Additionally, the investments in each of the common/ 

collective trust funds and registered investment companies are 

further diversified into various financial instruments. As of Decem-

ber 31, 2010, assets held by the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. defined 

benefit pension and OPEB plans do not include JPMorgan Chase 

common stock, except in connection with investments in third-party 

stock-index funds. The plans hold investments in funds that are 

sponsored or managed by affiliates of JPMorgan Chase in the amount 

of $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion for U.S. plans and $155 million and 

$474 million for non-U.S. plans, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 

respectively. 
 
206 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation of the fair values of total plan assets at December 31 for the years indi-
cated, as well as the respective approved range/target allocation by asset category, for the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension 
and OPEB plans. 
  Defined benefit pension plans
      
U.S. 
   
Non-U.S. 
  OPEB plans
(c)
   Target
  % of plan assets
  Target
   % of plan assets
  Target
   % of plan assets
  December 31,
 Allocation 
2010
 2009 Allocation
 2010
 2009 Allocation
  2010
 2009
  Asset categor
y    
    
   Debt secur
ities
(a)
  10-30% 
 29% 
 29% 72% 
 71% 
75%   50% 
 50% 
50
 % 
Equity secur
ities  25-60 
 40
  40 26 
 28
 23 50 
 50
 50
  Real estate
    5-20 
 4    4 1 
 Š 1 Š 
 Š Š  Alternatives
(b)
  15-50 
 27 
 27 1 
 1 
1 Š 
 Š 
Š  Total
     100% 
    
100%
     100% 100% 
    
100%
 100% 100% 
    
100%
 100
 % 
(a) Debt securities primarily include corporate debt, U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. government, and mortgage-backed securities. 
(b) Alternatives primarily include limited partnerships. 
(c) Represents the U.S. OPEB plan only, as the U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.  
Fair value measurement of the plans™ assets and liabilities 
The following details the instruments measured at fair value, in-
cluding the general classification of such instruments pursuant to 

the valuation hierarchy, as described in Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 
of this Annual Report. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes currency on hand, demand 
deposits with banks or other financial institutions, and any short-

term, highly liquid investments readily convertible into cash (i.e., 

investments with original maturities of three months or less). Due 
to the highly liquid nature of these assets, they are classified within 
level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Equity securities
  Common and preferred stocks are valued at the closing price re-

ported on the major market on which the individual securities are 

traded and are generally classified within level 1 of the valuation 
hierarchy. If quoted exchange prices are not available for the spe-
cific security, other independent pricing or broker quotes are con-

sulted for valuation purposes. Consideration is given to the nature 

of the quotes (e.g., indicative or firm) and the relationship of re-

cently evidenced market activity to the prices provided from inde-

pendent pricing services. Common and preferred stock that do not 
have quoted exchange prices are generally classified within level 2 
of the valuation hierarchy.  
Common/collective trust funds  
These investments are public investment vehicles valued based on 

the calculated NAV of the fund. Where the funds produce a daily 

NAV that is validated by a sufficient level of observable activity 
(purchases and sales at NAV), the NAV is used to value the fund 
investment and it is classified in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. 

Where adjustments to the NAV are required, for example, with 

respect to interests in funds subject to restrictions on redemption 

(such as withdrawal limitations) and/or observable activity for the 

fund investment is limited, investments are classified within level 2 
of the valuation hierarchy. 
Limited partnerships 
Limited partnerships include investments in hedge funds, private 
equity funds and real estate funds. Hedge funds are valued based 

on quoted NAV and are classified within level 2 or 3 of the valua-
tion hierarchy depending on the level of liquidity and activity in the 
markets for each investment. Certain of these hedge fund invest-

ments are subject to restrictions on redemption (such as initial lock-

up periods, withdrawal limitations and illiquid assets) and are 

therefore classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The 

valuation of private equity investments and real estate funds re-
quire significant management judgment due to the absence of 
quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity and the long-

term nature of such assets and therefore, they are generally classi-

fied within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Unfunded commit-

ments to purchase limited partnership investments for the Plans 

were $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion for 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Corporate debt securities and U.S. federal, state, local and non-
government debt securities
  The Firm estimates the value of debt instruments using a combina-

tion of observed transaction prices, independent pricing services 

and relevant broker quotes. Consideration is given to the nature of 

the quotes (e.g., indicative or firm) and the relationship of recently 
evidenced market activity to the prices provided from independent 
pricing services. The Firm may also use pricing models or dis-

counted cash flows. Such securities are generally classified within 

level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Mortgage-backed securities 
MBS include both U.S. government agency and U.S. government-
sponsored enterprise (collectively, ﬁU.S. government agenciesﬂ) 
securities, and nonagency pass-through securities. U.S. government 

agency securities are valued based on quoted prices in active markets 

and are therefore classified in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. 

Nonagency securities are primarily ﬁAAAﬂ rated residential and 

commercial MBS valued using a combination of observed transaction 
prices, independent pricing services and relevant broker quotes. 
Consideration is given to the nature of the quotes and the relation-

ships of recently evidenced market activity to the prices provided from 

independent pricing services. Such securities are generally classified 

within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 207 
Derivative receivables and derivative payables 
In the normal course of business, foreign exchange, credit, interest 
rate and equity derivative contracts are used to minimize fluctua-

tions in the value of plan assets caused by exposure to credit or 
market risks. These instruments may also be used in lieu of invest-
ing in cash instruments. Exchange traded derivatives valued using 

quoted prices are classified within level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. 

However, a majority of the derivative instruments are valued using 

internally developed models that use as their basis readily observ-

able market parameters and are therefore classified within level 2 
of the valuation hierarchy.
 Other 
Other consists of exchange traded funds (ﬁETFsﬂ), mutual fund 
investments, and participating and non-participating annuity con-

tracts (ﬁAnnuity Contractsﬂ). ETFs are valued at the closing price 

reported on the major market on which the individual securities are 
traded and are generally classified within level 1 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Mutual fund investments are valued using NAV. Those 

fund investments with a daily NAV that are validated by a sufficient 

level of observable activity (purchases and sales at NAV) are classified 
in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Where adjustments to the NAV 
are required, for example, for fund investments subject to restrictions 

on redemption (such as lock-up periods or withdrawal limitations), 

and/or observable activity for the fund investment is limited, the 

mutual fund investments are classified in level 2 or 3 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Annuity Contracts are valued at the amount by which the 
fair value of the assets held in the separate account exceeds the 
actuarially determined guaranteed benefit obligation covered under 

the Annuity Contracts. Annuity Contracts lack market mechanisms for 

transferring each individual policy and generally include restrictions 

on the timing of surrender; therefore, these investments are classified 

within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Pension and OPEB plan assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
 U.S. defined benefit pension plans
              
Non
-U.S. define
d ben
efit pension plans 
  December 31, 2010 
(in millions) 
 Level 1  Level 2  Level 3 
Total 
 fair value 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
       
 Total 
  fair value
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 $ Š  $ Š  $ Š   
$ Š  $ 81
  $ Š  $ Š  $      
81
 Equity securities: 
        Capital equipment 
  748
   9   Š   757
   68   13
   Š  81
  Consumer goods 
  712
   Š   Š   712
   75
   21
   Š  96
 Banks and finance companies 
  414
   1   Š   415
   113
   9   Š  122
 Business services 
  444
   Š   Š   444
   53
   10
   Š  63
 Energy 
  195
   Š   Š   195
   59
   6   Š  65
  Materials 
  205
   Š   Š   205
   50
   13
   Š  63
 Real Estate 
  21
   Š   Š   21
   1   Š   Š  1 Other 
  857
   6   Š   863
   194
   16
   Š  210
 Total equity securities
   3,596
   16
   Š   3,612
   613
   88
   Š  701
 Common/collective trust funds
(a)
   1,195   756   Š   1,951   46   180   Š  226
 Limited partnerships: 
        Hedge funds 
  Š   959
   1,102
   2,061
   Š   Š   Š  Š Private equity funds 
  Š   Š   1,232
   1,232
   Š   Š   Š  Š Real estate 
  Š   Š   304
   304
   Š   Š   Š  Š Total limited partne
rships
   Š   959
   2,638
   3,597
   Š   Š   Š  Š Corporate debt securities
(b)
   Š   424   1   425   Š   718   Š  718
 U.S. federal, state, local and non
-U.S. 
 government debt securities  
  Š   453   Š   453   Š   864   Š  864
 Mortgage-backed securities
(c)
   188   55   Š   243   1   Š   Š  1
 Derivative receivables
(d)
   2   194   Š   196   Š   3   Š  3
 Other  
  218
   58
   387
   663
   18
   51
   Š  69
 Total assets measured at fair value
(e)(f)
  $ 5,199  $ 2,915  $ 3,026  $ 11,140  $ 759  $ 1,904  $ Š  $ 2,663
  Derivative payables 
  Š   (177)
   Š   (177)
   Š   (25)
   Š  (25
 ) Total liabilities measured at fair value  $  Š  $  (177)  $  Š   $ (177)
(g)
  $  Š  $  (25)  $  Š  $     (25
 )  
208 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
  U.S. defined benefit pension plans
              
Non
-U.S. defined ben
efit pension plans 
  December 31, 2009 (in millions) 
 Level 1  Level 2  Level 3 
Total 
 fair value  Level 1  Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
  fair value
 Cash and cash equivalents
  $ 71
  $ Š  $ Š  $ 71
  $ 27
  $ Š  $ Š  $ 27
Equity securities
:         Capital equipment
   608
   13
   Š   621
   49   16
   Š   65
Consumer goods
   554
   Š   Š   554
   64
   18
   Š   82
Banks and finance comp
anies
   324
   Š   Š   324
   90
   12
   Š   102
Busine
ss services
   322
   Š   Š   322
   39
   13
   Š   52
Energy
   188
   Š   Š   188
   45
   13
   Š   58
Materials
   186
   Š   Š   186
   35
   3   Š   38
Real estate
   19
   Š   Š   19
   Š   Š   Š   ŠOther
   571
   1   Š   572
   171
   Š   Š   171
Total equ
ity securities
   2,772   14   Š   2,786   493   75   Š   568
Common/collective trust funds
(a)
   1,868   610   Š   2,478   23   185   Š   208
Limited partnerships
:          Hedge funds
   Š   912
   627
   1,539
   Š   Š   Š   ŠPrivate equity funds
   Š   Š   874
   874
   Š   Š   Š   ŠReal estate
   Š   Š   196
   196
   Š   Š   Š   ŠTotal limited partne
rships
   Š   912   1,697   2,609   Š   Š   Š   
ŠCorporate debt securities
(b)
   Š   941   Š   941   Š   685   Š   685
U.S. federal, state, local an
d non
-U.S. 
 government debt securities  
  Š   406   Š   406   Š   841   Š   841
Mortgage-backed securities
(c)
   169   54   Š   223   Š   Š   Š   
ŠDerivative receivables
(d)
   Š   90   Š   90   Š   5   Š   5
Other 
   348
   115
   334
   797
   18
   89
   13
   120
Total assets measured at fair value
(e)(f)
  $ 5,228  $ 3,142  $ 2,031  $ 10,401  $ 561  $ 1,880  $ 13  $ 2,454
 Derivative payables
   Š   (76)
   Š   (76)
   Š   (30)
   Š           
(30
) Total liabilities measured at fair value 
 $  Š  $  (76)  $  Š  $       (76)
(g)
  $  Š  $  (30)  $  Š   $     (30
) (a)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, common/collective trust funds generally include commingled funds that primarily included 22% and 39%, respectively, of short-term 
investment funds; 21% and 24%, respectively, of equity (index) investments; and 16% and 15%, respectively, of international investments. 
(b)
 Corporate debt securities include debt securities of U.S. and non-U.S. corporations. 
(c)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, mortgage-backed securities were generally invested 77% and 72%, respectively, in debt securities issued by U.S. government agen-
cies.
 (d)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, derivative receivables primarily included 89% and 80%, respectively, of foreign exchange contracts; and 11% and 16%, respectively, 
of equity warrants. 
(e)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of investments valued at NAV were $4.1 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively, which were classified within 
the valuation hierarchy as follows: $1.3 billion and $2.0 billion in level 1, $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in level 2 and $1.1 billion and $600 million in level 3. 
(f)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, excluded U.S. defined benefit pension plan receivables for investments sold and dividends and interest receivables of $52 million and 
$82 million, respectively; and excluded non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan receivables for dividends and interest receivables of $9 million and $8 million, respectively. 
(g)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, excluded $149 million and $177 million, respectively, of U.S. defined benefit pension plan payables for investments purchased; and 
$38 million and $12 million, respectively, of other liabilities.
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm™s OPEB plan was partially funded with COLI policies of $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, 
which were classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 209 
Changes in level 3 fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2010 
(in millions) 
Fair value, 
 January 1, 2010 
Total rea
lized/
 unrealized 
gains/(losses)
(a)
 Purchases, sales 
and settlements, net 
Transfers in and/or  
out of level 3 
 Fair value,
   
December 31,   
   2010 
U.S. defined benefit pension plans 
Limited partnerships: 
Hedge funds 
 $ 627
  $ 8  $ 388
  $ 79
 $  
1,102
Private equity funds 
  874
   111
   235
   12
   1,232
Real estate 
  196
   19
   89
   Š   304
Total limited partne
rships
  $ 1,697
  $ 138
  $ 712
  $ 91
  $ 2,638
Corporate debt securities 
  Š   Š   Š   1   1Other 
  334
   53
   Š   Š   387
   
Total U.S. plans
  $ 2,031
  $ 191
  $ 712
  $ 92
  $ 3,026
Non
-U.S. defined benefit pension plans
     Other 
 $ 13
  $ (1)
  $ (12)
  $ Š  $ Š   
Total non
-U.S. plans
  $ 13
  $ (1)
  $ (12)
  $ Š  $ ŠOPEB plans
    COLI 
 $ 1,269
  $ 137
  $ (25)
  $ Š  $ 1,381
Total OPEB 
plans
  $ 1,269
  $ 137
  $ (25)
  $ Š  $ 1,381
  Year ended 
December 31, 2009 
(in millions) 
Fair value, 
 January 1, 2009 
Total rea
lized/
 unrealized 
gains/(losses)
(a)
 Purchases, sales 
and settlements, net 
Transfers in and/or  
out of level 3 
 Fair value,
   Dec
ember 31,   
   2009 
U.S. defined benefit pension plans 
Limited partnerships:
  Hedge funds
  $ 524
  $ 112
  $ (9)
  $ Š  $ 627
Private equity funds
   810
   (1)
   80
   (15)
   874
Real estate
   203
   (107)
   100
   Š   196
Total limited partne
rshi
ps  $ 1,537 
 $ 4 
 $ 171 
 $ (15)  $ 1,697
Corporate debt securities
   Š   Š   Š   Š   ŠOther
   315
   19
   Š   Š   334
   
Total U.S. plans
  $ 1,852 
 $ 23 
 $ 171 
 $ (15)  $ 2,031
Non
-U.S. defined benefit pension plans
     
Other
  $ 14
  $ (1)
  $ Š  $ Š  $ 13
   
Total non
-U.S. plans
  $ 14 
 $ (1) 
 $ Š 
 $ Š  $ 13
OPEB plans
     
COLI
  $ 1,126
  $ 172
  $ (29)
  $ Š  $ 1,269
Total OPEB plans
  $ 1,126 
 $ 172 
 $ (29) 
 $ Š  $ 1,269
(a) For the years ended December 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively, total realized (unrealized) gains/(losses) are the changes in unrealized gains or losses relating to assets 
held at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

210 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Estimated future benefit payments  
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid, which include the effect of expected future service, for the years indicated. 
The OPEB medical and life insurance payments are net of expected retiree contributions.  
 U.S. 
Non-U.S. 
 Year ended December 31, 
defined benefit 
defined benefit 
OPEB before 
   
  Medicare 
(in millions) 
pension plans 
pension plans Medicare Part D subsidy 
    
  Part D subsidy
 2011 
 $ 1,001 
 $ 84 
 $ 99 
 $  10
2012 
1,011 
92 
97 
11
2013 
587 
98 
95 
12
2014 
593 
102 
94 
13
2015 
592 
111 
92 
14
Years 2016Œ2020 
3,013 
640 
418 
78
Note 10 Œ Employee stock-based incentives  
Employee stock-based awards  
In
 2010, 2009, and 2008, JPMorgan Chase granted long-term 
stock-based awards to certain key employees under the 2005 Long-

Term Incentive Plan (the ﬁ2005 Planﬂ). The 2005 Plan became 

effective on May 17, 2005, and was amended in May 2008. Under 

the terms of the amended 2005 plan, as of December 31, 2010, 

113 million shares of common stock are available for issuance 

through May 2013. The amended 2005 Plan is the only active plan 

under which the Firm is currently granting stock-based incentive 

awards. In the following discussion, the 2005 Plan, plus prior Firm 

plans and plans assumed as the result of acquisitions, are referred 

to collectively as the ﬁLTI Plans,ﬂ and such plans constitute the 

Firm™s stock-based incentive plans. 
Restricted stock units (ﬁRSUsﬂ) are awarded at no cost to the recipi-
ent upon their grant. RSUs are generally granted annually and gener-

ally vest at a rate of 50% after two years and 50% after three years 

and convert into shares of common stock at the vesting date. In 

addition, RSUs typically include full-career eligibility provisions, which 

allow employees to continue to vest upon voluntary termination, 

subject to post-employment and other restrictions based on age or 

service-related requirements. All of these awards are subject to 

forfeiture until vested. An RSU entitles the recipient to receive cash 

payments equivalent to any dividends paid on the underlying com-

mon stock during the period the RSU is outstanding and, as such, are 

considered participating securities as discussed in Note 25 on page 

269 of this Annual Report.  
Under the LTI Plans, stock options and stock appreciation rights 
(ﬁSARsﬂ) have generally been granted with an exercise price equal 

to the fair value of JPMorgan Chase™s common stock on the grant 

date. The Firm typically awards SARs to certain key employees once 

per year, and it also periodically grants discretionary stock-based 

incentive awards to individual employees, primarily in the form of 

both employee stock options and SARs. The 2010, 2009 and 2008 

grants of SARs to key employees vest ratably over five years (i.e., 

20% per year). The 2010 grants of SARs contain full-career eligibil-

ity provisions; the 2009 and 2008 grants of SARs do not include 

any full-career eligibility provisions. SARs generally expire 10 years 

after the grant date.  
The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense for each 

tranche of each award as if it were a separate award with its own 

vesting date. Generally, for each tranche granted, compensation 

expense is recognized on a straight-line basis from the grant date 

until the vesting date of the respective tranche, provided that the 

employees will not become full-career eligible during the vesting 

period. For awards with full-career eligibility provisions and awards 

granted with no future substantive service requirement, the Firm 

accrues the estimated value of awards expected to be awarded to 

employees as of the grant date without giving consideration to the 

impact of post-employment restrictions. For each tranche granted 

to employees who will become full-career eligible during the vest-

ing period, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line 

basis from the grant date until the earlier of the employee™s full-

career eligibility date or the vesting date of the respective tranche. 
 The Firm™s policy for issuing shares upon settlement of employee 

stock-based incentive awards is to issue either new shares of com-
mon stock or treasury shares. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the 

Firm settled all of its employee stock-based awards by issuing 

treasury shares. 
In January 2008, the Firm awarded to its Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer up to 2 million SARs. The terms of this award 

are distinct from, and more restrictive than, other equity grants 

regularly awarded by the Firm. The SARs, which have a 10-year 

term, will become exercisable no earlier than January 22, 2013, 

and have an exercise price of $39.83
. The number of SARs that 
wi
ll become exercisable (ranging from none to the full 2 million) 
and their exercise date or dates may be determined by the Board 

of Directors based on an annual assessment of the performance 

of both the CEO and JPMorgan Chase. The Firm recognizes this 

award ratably over an assumed five-year service period, subject 

to a requirement to recognize changes in the fair value of the 

award through the grant date. The Firm recognized $4 million,  

$9 million and $1 million in compensation expense in 2010, 

2009 and 2008, respectively, for this award. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 211 
In connection with the Bear Stearns merger, 46 million Bear Stearns 
employee stock awards, principally RSUs, capital appreciation plan 
units and stock options, were exchanged for equivalent JPMorgan 

Chase awards using the merger exchange ratio of 0.21753. The fair 

value of these employee stock awards was included in the Bear 

Stearns purchase price, since substantially all of the awards were 

fully vested immediately after the merger date under provisions that 

provided for accelerated vesting upon a change of control of Bear 

Stearns. However, Bear Stearns vested employee stock options had 

no impact on the purchase price; since the employee stock options 

were significantly out of the money at the merger date, the fair 

value of these awards was equal to zero upon their conversion into 

JPMorgan Chase options.  
The Firm also exchanged 6 million shares of its common stock for  
27 million shares of Bear Stearns common stock held in an irrevo-

cable grantor trust (the ﬁRSU Trustﬂ), using the merger exchange 

ratio of 0.21753. The RSU Trust was established to hold common 
stock underlying awards granted to selected employees and key 

executives under certain Bear Stearns employee stock plans. The 

RSU Trust was consolidated on JPMorgan Chase™s Consolidated 

Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2008, and the shares held in the RSU 

Trust were recorded in ﬁShares held in RSU Trust,ﬂ which reduced 

stockholders™ equity, similar to the treatment for treasury stock. The 

related obligation to issue stock under these employee stock plans 

is reported in capital surplus. The issuance of shares held in the 

RSU Trust to employees has no effect on the Firm™s total stockhold-

ers™ equity, net income or earnings per share. Shares held in the 

RSU Trust were distributed in 2008, 2009 and 2010, with a major-

ity of the shares in the RSU Trust having been distributed through 

December 2010. There were 1 million shares in the RSU Trust as of 

December 31, 2010. These remaining shares are expected to be 

distributed over the next two years. 
 RSU activity  
Compensation expense for RSUs is measured based on the number of shares granted multiplied by the stock price at the grant date and is recog-

nized in income as previously described. The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase™s RSU activity for 2010.  
Year ended 
December 31, 2010
  (in thousands, except weighted average data)  
Number of shares 
       
Weighted
-average 
        grant date fair value
 Outstanding, January 1
 221,265
 $ 29.32
Granted
 80,142
    42.9
2Vested
 (59,
137
)    43.05
Forfeited
 (8,
149
)    31.15
Outstanding, D
ecember 3
1 234,121 
$ 30.45
The total fair value of shares that vested during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, was $2.3 billion, $1.3 billion and  

$1.6 billion, respectively. 
Employee stock option and SARs activity 
 Compensation expense for employee stock options and SARs, which is measured at the grant date as the fair value of employee stock options 
and SARs, is recognized in net income as described above.  

212 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase™s employee stock option and SARs activity for the year ended December 31, 2010, including 
awards granted to key employees and awards granted in prior years under broad-based plans.  
Year ended 
December 31, 2010
  (in thousands, except weighted-average data, and 
where otherwise noted)  
Number of  
options/SARs 
Weighted-average  
exercise price 
Weighted-average remaining 
contractual life (in years) 
   Aggregate 
intrinsic value
Outstanding, January 1
 266,568
  $ 
 45.83
  Granted
 20,949
   42.96
  Exercised 
 (12,87
0)   30.69
  Forfeited 
 (3,076)
   34.82
  Canceled  
(37,044)   65.95 
 Outstanding, December 31
 234,527  $ 43.33 
3.4 
$   1,191,151
Exercisable, December 31
 181,183
   45.52
 2.1
 788,217
 The weighted-average grant date per share fair value of stock 

options and SARs granted during the years ended December 31, 

2010, 2009 and 2008, was $12.27, $8.24 and $10.36, respec-

tively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years 

ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, was $154 million, 

$154 million and $391 million, respectively.  
Compensation expense 
The Firm recognized the following noncash compensation expense 

related to its various employee stock-based incentive plans in its 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2010
 2009
 2008
 Cost of prior gran
ts of RSUs and SARs 
that are amortized over their appli-
cable vesting periods 
$  2,479
 $  2,510
 $ 2,228
 Accrual of estimated costs of RSUs and 
SARs to be granted in future periods 
including those to full-career eligible 
employees 
772
 845
 409
 Total noncash
 compensation 
expense related to employee 
stock-based incentive plans
 $  3,251
 $  3,355
 $ 2,637
 At December 31, 2010, approximately $1.5 billion (pretax) of 
compensation cost related to unvested awards had not yet been 

charged to net income. That cost is expected to be amortized into 

compensation expense over a weighted-average period of 0.9 

years. The Firm does not capitalize any compensation cost related 

to share-based compensation awards to employees. 
Cash flows and tax benefits  
Income tax benefits related to stock-based incentive arrangements 

recognized in the Firm™s Consolidated Statements of Income for 

the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, were $1.3 

billion, $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. 
The following table sets forth the cash received from the exercise 
of stock options under all stock-based incentive arrangements, and 

the actual income tax benefit realized related to tax deductions 

from the exercise of the stock options. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
 20
10
 200
9 200
8 Cash r
eceived for options exercised
 $  
205
 $  437
 $1,026
 Tax benefit realized
 14
 11
 72
 In June 2007, the FASB ratified guidance which requires that 

realized tax benefits from dividends or dividend equivalents paid 

on equity-classified share-based payment awards that are 

charged to retained earnings be recorded as an increase to 

additional paid-in capital and included in the pool of excess tax 

benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies on share-based 

payment awards. Prior to the issuance of this guidance, the Firm 

did not include these tax benefits as part of this pool of excess 

tax benefits. The Firm adopted this guidance on January 1, 2008; 

its adoption did not have an impact on the Firm™s Consolidated 

Balance Sheets or results of operations. 
Valuation assumptions 
The following table presents the assumptions used to value employee 

stock options and SARs granted during the years ended December 31, 

2010, 2009 and 2008, under the Black-Scholes valuation model. 
Year ended December 31, 
 20
10
  2009 2008
  Weighted
-average annua
lized 
valuation assumptions
   
  Risk-free interest rate 
  3.89
%      2.33%
 3.90
 % Expected dividend yield
(a)
  3.13
  3.40 3.57
  Expected common stock price volatility
  37
  56 34
  Expected life (in years) 
 6.4
  6.6 6.8
  (a) In 2010 and 2009, the expected dividend yield was determined using 
historical dividend yields. 
The expected volatility assumption is derived from the implied 
volatility of JPMorgan Chase™s publicly traded stock options.  
The expected life assumption is an estimate of the length of time 

that an employee might hold an option or SAR before it is exer-

cised or canceled, and the assumption is based on the Firm™s 

historical experience. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 213 
Note 11 Œ Noninterest expense 
The following table presents the components of nonint
erest expense. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
   20
10
   2009 
2008
Compensation expense
(a)  $ 28,124
   $ 26,928  $ 22,746
Noncompensation expense: 
  Occupancy expense 
   3,681
   3,666  3,038
Technology, communications and equipment expense 
   4,684
   4,624  4,315
Professional and outside services 
   6,767
   6,232  6,053
Marketing 
   2,44
6   1,777  1,913
Other expense
(b)(
c)(d)
    14,558
   7,594  3,740
Amortization of intangibles 
   936
   1,050  1,263
Total noncompensation expense
    33,072
   24,943  20,322
Merger costs 
   Š   481 
 432
Total noninterest expense
  
 $ 61,196
   $ 52,352  $ 43,500
(a)
 2010 includes a payroll tax expense related to the United Kingdom (ﬁU.K.ﬂ) Bank Payroll Tax on certain compensation awarded from December 9, 2009, to April 5, 
2010, to relevant banking employees. 
(b)
 In 2010, 2009 and 2008, included litigation expense of $7.4 billion, $161 million and a net benefit of $781 million, respectively. 
(c)
 Includes foreclosed property expense of $1.0 billion, $1.4 billion and $213 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(d)
 Expense for 2009 included a $675 million FDIC special assessment. 
Merger costs 
Costs associated with the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008 are reflected in the merger costs caption of the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. For a further discussion of the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction, see Note 2 
on pages 166Œ170 of this Annual Report. A summary of merger-related costs is shown in the following table.  
   2009
    2008
  Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
Bear 
 Stearns 
Washin
gton
 Mutual Total 
Bear 
 Stearns 
Washin
gton
 Mutual Total
 Expense category
        
Compensation
  $  (9)
  $ 
 256
  $ 
 247
  $ 
 181
  $ 113
   $ 2
94 Occupancy
   (3)
   15
   12
   42
   Š   42
 Technology and communic
ations and other
   38
   184
   222
   85
   11
   96
 Total
(a)(b)
  $  26  $  455  $  481  $  308  $ 124   $ 432 
(a) With the exception of occupancy- and technology-related write-offs, all of the costs in the table required the expenditure of cash. 
(b) There were no merger costs for 2010. 
The table below shows changes in the merger reserve balance related to costs associated with the above transactions. 
   2010
    
2009 
   
2008 
 Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
Bear 
 Stearns 
Washin
gton
 Mutual Total 
Bear 
 Stearns 
Washin
gton
 Mutual Total 
Bear 
 Stearns 
Washin
gton
 Mutual Total
 Merger reserve balance, beginning 
of period 
 $  32  $  57  $    89 
 $  327  $  441  $    768  $      Š  $    Š   $      Š
 Recorded as merger costs
(a)
   Š   Š   Š 
  26   455   481   308   124   432
Recorded as goodwill 
  Š   Š   Š   (5)   Š   (5)
   1,112   435   1,547 
Utilization of merger reserve 
  (32)
   (57)
   (89)
   (316)   (839)   (1,155)
   (1,093)   (118)   (1,211) 
Merger reserve ba
lan
ce, end 
of period
  $  Š  $  Š  $    Š 
 $    32  $    57  $      89   $    327  $ 441   $    768
 (a)
 There were no merger costs for 2010. 

214 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Note 12 Œ Securities  
Securities are classified as AFS, held-to-maturity (ﬁH
TMﬂ) or trad-
ing. Trading securities are discussed in Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 
of this Annual Report. Securities are classified primarily as AFS 

when used to manage the Firm™s exposure to interest rate move-

ments or used for longer-term strategic purposes. AFS securities are 

carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Unrealized 

gains and losses, after any applicable hedge accounting adjust-

ments, are reported as net increases or decreases to accumulated 

other comprehensive income/(loss). The specific identification 

method is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS 

securities, which are included in securities gains/(losses) on the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. Securities that the Firm has the 

positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as HTM 

and are carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets. The Firm has not classified new purchases of securities as 

HTM for the past several years. 
Other-than-temporary impairment 
AFS debt and equity securities in unrealized loss positions are 

analyzed as part of the Firm™s ongoing assessment of other-than-

temporary impairment (ﬁOTTIﬂ). For debt securities, the Firm con-

siders a decline in fair value to be other-than-temporary when the 

Firm does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of 

the security. The Firm also considers an OTTI to have occurred when 

there is an adverse change in cash flows to beneficial interests in 

securitizations that are rated below ﬁAAﬂ at their acquisition, or 

that can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in such a way 

that the Firm would not recover substantially all of its recorded 

investment. For AFS equity securities, the Firm considers a decline 

in fair value to be other-than-temporary if it is probable that the 

Firm will not recover its amortized cost basis. 
For debt securities, OTTI losses must be recognized in earnings if an 
investor has the intent to sell the debt security, or if it is more likely 

than not that the investor will be required to sell the debt security 

before recovery of its amortized cost basis. However, even if an 

investor does not expect to sell a debt security, it must evaluate the 

expected cash flows to be received and determine if a credit loss 

exists. In the event of a credit loss, only the amount of impairment 

associated with the credit loss is recognized in income. Amounts 

relating to factors other than credit losses are recorded in OCI.  
When the Firm intends to sell AFS debt or equity securities, it 
recognizes an impairment loss equal to the full difference between 

the amortized cost basis and the fair value of those securities.  
When the Firm does not intend to sell AFS debt or equity securities 
in an unrealized loss position, potential OTTI is considered using a 
variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which 

the market value has been less than cost; adverse conditions spe-

cifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condi-

tion of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment 

structure of the security; changes to the rating of the security by a 

rating agency; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes 

in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. For debt 

securities, the Firm estimates cash flows over the remaining lives of 

the underlying collateral to assess whether credit losses exist and, 

where applicable for purchased or retained beneficial interests in 

securitized assets, to determine if any adverse changes in cash 

flows have occurred. The Firm™s cash flow estimates take into 

account expectations of relevant market and economic data as of 

the end of the reporting period. For securities issued in a securitiza-

tion, the Firm also takes into consideration underlying loan-level 

data, and structural features of the securitization, such as subordi-

nation, excess spread, overcollateralization or other forms of credit 

enhancement, and compares the losses projected for the underlying 

collateral (ﬁpool lossesﬂ) against the level of credit enhancement in 

the securitization structure to determine whether these features are 

sufficient to absorb the pool losses, or whether a credit loss on the 

AFS debt security exists. The Firm also performs other analyses to 

support its cash flow projections, such as first-loss analyses or 

stress scenarios.  
For equity securities, the Firm considers the above factors, as well 
as the Firm™s intent and ability to retain its investment for a period 

of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market 

value, and whether evidence exists to support a realizable value 

equal to or greater than the carrying value. 
Realized gains and losses
 The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS  
securities. 
Year ended December 31,
     (in millions) 
20
10
 2009
 2008
 Realized gains 
 $ 3,382
  $ 2,268
 $ 1,890
  Realized losses 
  (317)
   (580)
 (330
 )(c)
 Net realized gains
(a)
   3,065
   1,688
      1,560
  Credit losses included in secur
ities 
gains
(b)
   (100)
   (578)
      NA
  Net securities gains
  $ 2,965
  $ 1,110
 $ 1,560
  (a) Proceeds from securities sold were within approximately 3% of amortized cost 
in 2010 and 2009 and within approximately 2% of amortized cost in 2008. 
(b) Includes other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income on certain 
prime mortgage-backed securities and obligations of U.S. states and municipali-
ties for the year ended December 31, 2010, and on certain subprime and prime 
mortgage-backed securities and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities for 

the year ended December 31, 2009. 
(c) Includes $76 million of losses due to other-than temporary impairment of 
subprime mortgage-backed securities. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 215 
The amortized costs and estimated fair values of AFS and HTM securities were as follows at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
 2010
  2009 
December 31, (in millions) 
Amortized 
 cost 
Gross 
 unrealized 
 gains 
Gro
ss 
 unrealized 
losses 
Fair  
value Amortized cost
 Gross 
 unrealized  
gains 
Gross 
 unrealized  
losses 
 Fair
.  value
 Available
-for
-sale debt secur
ities
        Mortgage
-backed securities:
        U.S. government agencies
(a)
  
$  117,364 
 $ 3,159 
 $ 297 
 $ 120,226 
 $ 166,094 
 $ 2,412 
 $ 608 $ 167,898
 Residential: 
        Prime and Alt-A 
  2,173 
  81 250
(d)
   2,004 
  5,234 
  96 
  807
(d)
 4,523
 Subprime 
  Š   Š   Š   Š   17 
  Š 
  Š 
17
 Non-U.S. 
  47,089
   290
   409
   46,970
   10,003 
  320 
  65 10,258
 Commercial 
  5,169
   502
   17
   5,654
   4,521 
  132 
  63 4,590
 Total mortgage
-backed secur
ities
   171,795
   4,032
   973
   174,854
   185,869 
  2,960 
  1,543 187,286
 U.S. Treasury and government 
 agencies
(a)
   11,258 
  118 
  28 
  11,348 
  30,044 
  88 
  135 29,997
 Obligations of U.S. states and 
 municipalities 
  11,732 
  165 
  338 
  11,559 
  6,270 
  292 
  25 6,537
 Certificates of deposit 
  3,648
   1   2   3,647
   2,649 
  1 
  Š 2,650
 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
  20,614
   191
   28
   20,7
77
   24,320 
  234 
  51 24,503
 Corporate debt securities
(b)
   61,718 
  495 
  419 
  61,794 
  61,226 
  812 
  30 62,008
 Asset-backed securities: 
        Credit card receivables 
  7,278
   335
   5   7,608
   25,266 
  502 
  26 25,742
 Collateralized loan obligations 
  13,336
   472
   210
   13,598
   12,172 
  413 
  436 12,149
 Other 
  8,968
   130
   16
   9,082
   6,719 
  129 
  54 6,794
 Total available
-for
-sale debt 
securities 
  310,347 
  5,939 
   2,019
(d)
   314,267 
  354,535 
  5,431 
  2,300
(d)
 357,666
 Available-for-sale equity securities 
  1,894
   163
   6   2,051
   2,518 
  185 
  4 2,699
 Total available-for-sale securities $ 312,241 
 $ 6,102 
 $  2,025
(d)
  $ 316,318 
 $ 357,053 
 $ 5,616 
 $ 2,304
(d)
 $ 360,365
 Total held-to-maturity securities
(c)
 $ 18 
 $ 2 
 $ Š 
 $ 20 
 $ 25 
 $ 2 
 $ Š 
$27
 (a) Includes total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations with fair values of $94.2 billion and $153.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, 
which were predominantly mortgage-related.  
(b) Consists primarily of bank debt including sovereign government-guaranteed bank debt.  
(c) Consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. 
(d) Includes a total of $133 million and $368 million (before tax) of unrealized losses related to prime mortgage-backed securities for which credit losses have been recog-
nized in income at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These unrealized losses are not credit-related and remain reported in AOCI. 

216 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Securities impairment
 The following table presents the fair value and gross unrealized losses for AFS securities by aging category at December 31, 2010 and 2009.  
      
Securities with gross unrealized losses
   Less than 12 months
   12 months or more
    December 31, 2010
  (in millions) 
Fair value 
Gross 
 unrealized 
losses Fair value 
Gross 
 unrealized 
losses 
Total fair  
value 
Total gross 
unrealized 
losses 
Available
-for
-sale debt securities
       Mortgage
-backed securities:
      U.S. government agencies  
 $ 14,039
  $ 297
  $ Š  $ Š  $ 14,039
  $ 297
Residential: 
        Prime and Alt-A 
Š Š 1,193
  250
 1,193
 250
   Subprime 
Š Š Š  Š Š Š   Non-U.S. 
35,166
 379
 1,080
  30
 36,246
 409
Commercial 
548
 14
 11
  3 559
 17
Total mortgage-backed securities 
49,753 690 2,284  283 52,037 973
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 
921
 28
 Š  Š 921
 28
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
6,890
 330
 20
  8 6,910
 338
Certificates of deposit 
1,771
 2 Š  Š 1,771
 2Non-U.S. government debt securities 
6,9
60 28
 Š  Š 6,9
60 28
Corporate debt securities 
18,783
 418
 90
  1 18,873
 419
Asset-backed securities: 
     Credit card receivables 
Š Š 345
  5 345
 5Collateralized loan obligations 
460
 10
 6,321
  200
 6,781
 210
Other 
2,615
 9 32
  7 2,647
 16
Total available
-for
-sale debt securities
 88,153
 1,515
 9,
09
2  504
 97,2
45 2,019
Available-for-sale equity securities 
Š Š 2  6 2 6Total securities with gross unrealized losses
  $ 88,153
  $ 1,515
  $ 9,
09
4  $ 510
  $ 97,2
47  $ 2,025
      
Securities with gross unrealized losses
   Less than 12 months
   12 
months or more
    December 31, 2009  (in millions) 
Fair value 
Gross 
 unrealized 
losses Fair value 
Gross 
 unrealized 
losses 
Total fair 
value 
Total gross 
unrealized 
losses 
Available
-for
-sale debt securities
       Mortgage
-backed securities:
       U.S. go
vernment agencies
  $ 43,235
  $ 603
  $ 644
  $ 5  $ 43,879
  $    
 608
 Residential:
          
Prime and Alt
-A 183
   27
 3,032
  780
  3,215
  807
    
Subprime
 Š   Š Š  Š  Š  Š    
Non
-U.S.
 391
   1 1,773
  64
  2,164
  65
 Commercial
 679
   34
 229
  29
  908
  63
 Total
 mortgage
-backed securities
 44,488   665 5,678  878  50,166  1,543
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
 8,433
   135
 Š  Š  8,433
  135
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities
 472
   11
 389
  14
  861
  25
 Certificates of deposit
 Š   Š Š  Š  Š  Š Non
-U.S. government debt securities
 2,471
   46
 835
  5  3,306
  51
 Corporate debt securities
 1,831
   12
 4,634
  18
  6,465
  30
 Asset
-backed securities:
       Credit card receivables
 Š   Š 745
  26
  745
  26
 Collateralized loan oblig
ations
 42
   1 7,883
  435
  7,925
  436
 Other
 767
   8 1,767
  46
  2,534
  54
 Total available
-for
-sale debt securities
 58,504   878 21,931  1,422  80,435  2,300
 Available
-for
-sale equity securities
 1   1 3  3  4  4 Total securities with gross unrealized losses
  $ 58,505  $ 879  $ 21,934  $ 1,425  $ 80,439 
  $   2,304
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 217 
Other-than-temporary impairment 
The following table presents credit losses that are included in the 
securities gains and losses table above.  
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
 2010
 2009
  Debt securities the Firm doe
s not 
intend to sell that have credit losses  
  Total 
other
-than
-temporary 
impairment 
losses
(a)
  $ (94)
  $  (946
 ) Losses recorded in/(reclassified from) other 
comprehensive income 
 (6)
 368
  Credit losses recognized in income
(b)(c)
  $ (100)
  $  (578
 ) (a)
 For initial OTTI, represents the excess of the amortized cost over the fair value of 
AFS debt securities. For subsequent OTTI of the same security, represents addi-

tional declines in fair value subsequent to the previously recorded OTTI, if appli-
cable. 
(b)
 Represents the credit loss component of certain prime mortgage-backed 
securities and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities for 2010, and cer-
tain prime and subprime mortgage-backed securities and obligations of U.S. 
states and municipalities for 2009 that the Firm does not intend to sell. Sub-

sequent credit losses may be recorded on securities without a corresponding 

further decline in fair value if there has been a decline in expected cash flows. 
(c)
 Excluded from this table are OTTI losses of $7 million that were recognized in 

income in 2009, related to subprime mortgage-backed debt securities the Firm in-

tended to sell. These securities were sold in 2009, resulting in the recognition of a 
recovery of $1 million. 
Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired 
debt securities 
The following table presents a rollforward for the years ended 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, of the credit loss component of 

OTTI losses that were recognized in income related to debt securi-

ties that the Firm does not intend to sell. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2010
  2009
 Balance, beginning of period 
 $ 578
  $    Š
 Additions: 
  Newly credit-impaired securities 
  Š   578
 Increase in losses on previously credit
-impaired
   securities 
  94 
  Š
 Losses r
eclassified from ot
her 
comprehensive 
   income on previously credit-impaired securities 
  6 
  Š
 Reductions: 
  Sales of credit-impaired securities 
  (31)
   Š
 Impact of new 
accounting
 guidance related 
   to VIEs 
  (15)
   Š
 Balance, end of period
  $ 632
  $  578
 Gross unrealized losses 
Gross unrealized losses have generally decreased since December 31, 

2009, due primarily to market spread improvement and increased 

liquidity, driving asset prices higher. However, gross unrealized losses 
on certain securities have increased, including on certain corporate 
debt securities, which are primarily government-guaranteed positions 

that experienced credit spread widening.
As of December 31, 2010, 
th
e Firm does not intend to sell the securities with a loss position in 
AOCI, and it is not likely that the Firm will be required to sell these 

securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Except for the 
securities reported in the table above for which credit losses have 
been recognized in income, the Firm believes that the securities with 

an unrealized loss in AOCI are not other-than-temporarily impaired as 
of December 31, 2010. 
Following is a description of the Firm™s principal security invest-
ments with the most significant unrealized losses as of December 

31, 2010, and the key assumptions used in the Firm™s estimate of 

the present value of the cash flows most likely to be collected from 

these investments. 
Mortgage-backed securities Œ Prime and Alt-A nonagency 
As of December 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses related to prime 

and Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities issued by private 

issuers were $250 million, all of which have been in an unrealized 

loss position for 12 months or more. Approximately 70% of the 

total portfolio (by amortized cost) are currently rated below invest-

ment-grade; the Firm has recorded other-than-temporary impair-
ment losses on 55% of the below investment-grade positions. In 
analyzing prime and Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities 

for potential credit losses, the Firm utilizes a methodology that 

focuses on loan-level detail to estimate future cash flows, which are 

then allocated to the various tranches of the securities. The loan-

level analysis primarily considers current home value, loan-to-value 
(ﬁLTVﬂ) ratio, loan type and geographical location of the underlying 
property to forecast prepayment, home price, default rate and loss 

severity. The forecasted weighted average underlying default rate 

on the positions was 21% and the related weighted average loss 

severity was 50%. Based on this analysis, an OTTI loss of $6 million 

was recognized in 2010 related to securities that experienced 
increased delinquency rates associated with specific collateral types 
and origination dates. Overall losses have decreased since Decem-

ber 31, 2009, with the recovery in security prices resulting from 

increased demand for higher-yielding asset classes and a decelera-

tion in the pace of home price declines due in part to the U.S. 

government programs to facilitate financing and to spur home 
purchases. The unrealized loss of $250 million is considered tempo-
rary, based on management™s assessment that the estimated future 

cash flows together with the credit enhancement levels for those 

securities remain sufficient to support the Firm™s investment. The 

credit enhancements associated with the below investment-grade 
and investment-grade positions are 9% and 24%, respectively. 
Asset-backed securities Œ Collateralized loan obligations  
As of December 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses related to CLOs 
were $210 million, of which $200 million related to securities that 
were in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. Overall 

losses have decreased since December 31, 2009, mainly as a result 

of lower default forecasts and spread tightening across various 

asset classes. Substantially all of these securities are rated ﬁAAA,ﬂ 

ﬁAAﬂ and ﬁAﬂ and have an average credit enhancement of 30%. 
Credit enhancement in CLOs is primarily in the form of subordina-
tion, which is a form of structural credit enhancement where real-

ized losses associated with assets held by an issuing vehicle are 

allocated to issued tranches considering their relative seniority. The 

key assumptions considered in analyzing potential credit losses 

were underlying loan and debt security defaults and loss severity. 
Based on current default trends, the Firm assumed collateral default 
rates of 2.1% for 2010 and 5% thereafter. Further, loss severities 

were assumed to be 48% for loans and 78% for debt securities. 

Losses on collateral were estimated to occur approximately 18 
months after default. 

218 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Contractual maturities and yields 
The following table presents the amortized cost and estimated fair value at December 31, 2010, of JPMorgan Chase™s AFS and HTM securities 
by contractual maturity. 
By remaining maturity 
December 31, 2010 (in millions)
 Due in one  
year or less 
Due after one year 
through five years  
Due after five years 
through 10 years 
  
Due after 
     10 years
(c)
                Total
  Available
-for
-sale debt securities
       Mortgage-backed securities:
(a)    
   Amortiz
ed cost
  $ 15
  $ 259
  $ 2,781
  $ 16
8,740
 $  
171,795
  Fair value
   15
   282
   2,825
   171,732
 174,854
  Average yield
(b)
   8.63%  6.25%  2.71%    3.85% 
3.84
 % 
U.S. Treasury and government agencies:
(a)
       Amortized cost
  $ 1,843
  $ 4,913
  $ 4,251
  $ 251
 $    
11,258
  Fair value
   1,850
   5,007
   4,260
    231
 11,348
  Average yield
(b)
     1.68%     2.62%     3.84%       3.86% 
2.95
 % 
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities: 
      Amortized cost
  $ 39
  $ 160
  $ 333
  $ 11,200
 $    
11,73
2  Fair value
   39
   16
7   351
    11,002
 11,559
  Average yield
(b)
   3.21%  4.30%  5.25%   5.07% 
5.06
 % 
Certificates of deposit
:        Amortized cost
  $ 3,642
  $ 6  $ Š  $ Š $  
  
  
3,648
  Fair value
   3,641
   6   Š    Š 3,647
  Average yield
(b)
   5.16%  10.75%   Š%     Š% 
5.17
 % 
Non
-U.S. government debt securities
:       Amortized cost
  $ 5,666
  $ 13,557
  $ 1,388
  $ 3 $    
20,614
  Fair value
   5,673
   13,712
   1,389
    3 20,777
  Average yield
(b)
     1.81%     2.23%     3.56%       5.34% 
2.21
 % 
Corporate debt securities
:       Amortized cost
  $ 12,515
  $ 44,137
  $ 5,065
  $ 1 $    
61,718
  Fair value
   12,597
   44,100
   5,096
    1 61,794
  Average yield
(b)
  2.25%   2.19%   4.81%    1.07% 
2.42
 % 
Asset
-backed securities
:       Amortized cost
  $ 38
  $ 3,
371
  $ 13,567
  $ 12,606
 $    
29,582
  Fair value
   38
   3,
454
   14,041
    12,755
 30,288
  Average yield
(b)
  8.94%   2.05%   2.48%    2.19% 
2.32
 % 
Total available
-for
-sale debt securities
       Amortized cost
  $ 23,758
  $ 66,403
  $ 27,
385
  $ 192,801
 $ 
 310,347
  Fair value
   23,853
   66,72
8   27,962
   195,724
 314,267
  Average yield
(b)
   2.56%   2.24%   3.23%    3.81% 
3.33
 % 
Available
-for
-sale equity securities
       Amortized cost
  $ Š  $ Š  $ Š  $ 1,894
 $  
  
  
1,894
  Fair value
   Š   Š   Š   2,051
 2,051
  Average yield
(b)
   Š%   Š%   Š%    0.29% 
0.29
 % 
Total available
-for
-sale securities
       Amortized cost
  $ 23,758
  $ 66,403
  $ 27,
385
  $ 194,695
 $  
312,241
  Fair value
   23,853
   66,728
   27,962
   197,7
75
 316,318
  Average yield
(b)
   2.56%   2.24%   3.23%    3.78% 
3.31
 % 
Total held
-to
-maturity securities
       Amortized cost
  $ Š  $ 6  $ 11  $ 1 $  
       
  
18  Fair value
   Š   6   12   2 20
  Average yield
(b)
   Š%   6.97%   6.83%     6.49% 
6.85
 % 
(a)
 U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises were the only issuers whose securities exceeded 10% of JPMorgan Chase™s total 
stockholders™ equity at December 31, 2010. 
(b)
 Average yield was based on amortized cost balances at the end of the period and did not give effect to changes in fair value reflected in accumulated other 

comprehensive income/(loss). Yields are derived by dividing interest/dividend income (including the effect of related derivatives on AFS securities and the  
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts) by total amortized cost. Taxable-equivalent yields are used where applicable. 
(c)
 Includes securities with no stated maturity. Substantially all of the Firm™s residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are 

due in 10 years or more, based on contractual maturity. The estimated duration, which reflects anticipated future prepayments based on a consensus of deal-
ers in the market, is approximately five years for agency residential mortgage-backed securities, three years for agency residential collateralized mortgage  

obligations and six years for nonagency residential collateralized mortgage obligations. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 219 
Note 13 Œ Securities financing activities 
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements, repurch
ase 
agreements, securities borrowed transactions and securities 
loaned transactions (collectively, ﬁsecurities financing agree-

mentsﬂ) primarily to finance the Firm™s inventory positions, ac-

quire securities to cover short positions, accommodate customers™ 

financing needs, and settle other securities obligations.  
Securities financing agreements are treated as collateralized 
financings on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Resale and 

repurchase agreements are generally carried at the amounts at 

which the securities will be subsequently sold or repurchased, 

plus accrued interest. Securities borrowed and securities loaned 

transactions are generally carried at the amount of cash collateral 

advanced or received. Where appropriate under applicable ac-

counting guidance, resale and repurchase agreements with the 

same counterparty are reported on a net basis. Fees received or 

paid in connection with securities financing agreements are 

recorded in interest income or interest expense. 
The Firm has elected the fair value option for certain securities 
financing agreements. For a further discussion of the fair value 

option, see Note 4 on pages 187Œ189 of this Annual Report. The 

securities financing agreements for which the fair value option 

has been elected are reported within securities purchased under 

resale agreements; securities loaned or sold under repurchase 

agreements; and securities borrowed on the Consolidated Bal-

ance Sheets. Generally, for agreements carried at fair value, 

current-period interest accruals are recorded within interest 

income and interest expense, with changes in fair value reported 

in principal transactions revenue. However, for financial instru-

ments containing embedded derivatives that would be separately 

accounted for in accordance with accounting guidance for hybrid 

instruments, all changes in fair value, including any interest 

elements, are reported in principal transactions revenue.  
The following table details the Firm™s securities financing agree-
ments, all of which are accounted for as collateralized financings 

during the periods presented. 
December 31, (in millions) 
2010
2009
Securities purchased under resale agreements
(a)
 $ 222,302
$ 195,328
Securities borrowed
(b)
 123,587
119,630
Securities sold under repurchase agreements
(c)
 $ 262,722
$ 245,692
Securities loaned 
10,592
7,835
(a) Includes resale agreements of $20.3 billion and $20.5 billion accounted for at 
fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(b) Includes securities borrowed of $14.0 billion and $7.0 billion accounted for at 
fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(c) Includes repurchase agreements of $4.1 billion and $3.4 billion accounted for at 
fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
The amounts reported in the table above have been reduced by 
$112.7 billion and $121.2 billion at December 31, 2010 and 
2009, respectively, as a result of agreements in effect that meet 

the specified conditions for net presentation under applicable 

accounting guidance. 
JPMorgan Chase™s policy is to take possession, where possible, 
of securities purchased under resale agreements and of securi-

ties borrowed. The Firm monitors the market value of the un-

derlying securities that it has received from its counterparties 

and either requests additional collateral or returns a portion of 

the collateral when appropriate in light of the market value of 

the underlying securities. Margin levels are established initially 

based upon the counterparty and type of collateral and moni-

tored on an ongoing basis to protect against declines in collat-

eral value in the event of default. JPMorgan Chase typically 

enters into master netting agreements and other collateral 

arrangements with its resale agreement and securities bor-

rowed counterparties, which provide for the right to liquidate 

the purchased or borrowed securities in the event of a customer 

default. As a result of the Firm™s credit risk mitigation practices 

described above on resale and securities borrowed agreements, 

the Firm did not hold any reserves for credit impairment on 

these agreements as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
For a further discussion of assets pledged and collateral received 
in securities financing agreements see Note 31 on pages 280Œ

281 of this Annual Report.
   
  
   
 220 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Note 14 Œ Loans 
Loan accounting framework 
Th
e accounting for a loan depends on management™s strategy for 
the loan, and on whether the loan was credit-impaired at the 
date of acquisition. The Firm accounts for loans based on the 
following categories:   
· Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment (other than 
purchased credit-impaired (ﬁPCIﬂ) loans);  
· Loans held-for-sale;  
· Fair value loans; 
· PCI loans held-for-investment  
The following provides a detailed accounting discussion of these 
loan categories: 
Loans held-for-investment (other than PCI loans) 
 Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment, other than PCI 
loans, are measured at the principal amount outstanding, net of the 

following: allowance for loan losses; net charge-offs; interest applied 

to principal (for loans accounted for on the cost recovery method); 
unamortized discounts and premiums; and deferred loan fees or cost.  
Interest income 
Interest income on performing loans held-for-investment, other 
than PCI loans, is accrued and recognized as interest income at 

the contractual rate of interest. Purchase price discounts or pre-
miums, as well as net deferred loan fees or costs, are amortized 
into interest income over the life of the loan to produce a level 
rate of return. 
Nonaccrual loans 
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest has 
been suspended. Loans (other than credit card loans and certain 

consumer loans insured by U.S. government agencies) are placed 

on nonaccrual status and considered nonperforming when full 

payment of principal and interest is in doubt, which is generally 

determined when principal or interest is 90 days or more past due 

and collateral, if any, is insufficient to cover principal and interest. 

A loan is determined to be past due when the minimum payment 

is not received from the borrower by the contractually specified 

due date or for certain loans (e.g., residential real estate loans), 

when a monthly payment is due and unpaid for 30 days or more. 

All interest accrued but not collected is reversed against interest 
income at the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status. In 
addition, the amortization of deferred amounts is suspended. In 

certain cases, interest income on nonaccrual loans may be recog-

nized to the extent cash is received (i.e., cash basis) when the 

recorded loan balance is deemed fully collectible; however, if 

there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability of the recorded 

loan balance, all interest cash receipts are applied to reduce the 
carrying value of the loan (the cost recovery method).  
A loan may be returned to accrual status when repayment is 
reasonably assured and there has been demonstrated perform-

ance under the terms of the loan or, if applicable, the terms of 
the restructured loan. 
As permitted by regulatory guidance, credit card loans are generally 
exempt from being placed on nonaccrual status; accordingly, inter-

est and fees related to credit card loans continue to accrue until the 

loan is charged off or paid in full. However, the Firm separately 

establishes an allowance for the estimated uncollectible portion of 
billed and accrued interest and fee income on credit card loans. 
Allowance for loan losses 
The allowance for loan losses represents the estimated probable 
losses on held-for-investment loans. Changes in the allowance for 

loan losses are recorded in the Provision for credit losses on the 

Firm™s Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 15 on pages 

239Œ243 for further information on the Firm™s accounting polices 
for the allowance for loan losses. 
Charge-offs  
Wholesale loans and risk-rated business banking and auto loans 
are charged off against the allowance for loan losses when it is 

highly certain that a loss has been realized. This determination 

includes many factors, including the prioritization of the Firm™s 
claim in bankruptcy, expectations of the workout/restructuring of 
the loan and valuation of the borrower's equity. 
Consumer loans, other than risk-rated business banking and auto 
loans and PCI loans, are generally charged off to the allowance 
for loan losses upon reaching specified stages of delinquency, in 
accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination 

Council (ﬁFFIECﬂ) policy. Residential mortgage loans and scored 

business banking loans are generally charged down to estimated 

net realizable value at no later than 180 days past due. Certain 

consumer loans, including auto loans and non-government guar-

anteed student loans, are generally charged down to estimated 

net realizable value at 120 days past due. The Firm regularly 

assesses the assumptions that it uses to estimate these net realiz-

able values, and updates the underlying assumptions as necessary 
to further refine its estimates. 
Credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in 
which the account becomes 180 days past due, or within 60 days 

from receiving notification about a specified event (e.g., bank-
ruptcy of the borrower), whichever is earlier. 
Certain impaired loans are deemed collateral-dependent because 
repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the 

underlying collateral, rather than by cash flows from the bor-

rower™s operations, income or other resources. Impaired collat-

eral-dependent loans are charged-off to the fair value of the 
collateral, less costs to sell. See Note 15 on pages 239Œ243 for 
information on the Firm™s charge-off and valuation policies for 
collateral-dependent loans. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 221 
Loans held-for-sale
 Held-for-sale loans are measured at the lower of cost or fair 
value, with valuation changes recorded in noninterest revenue. 
For wholesale loans, the valuation is performed on an individual 

loan basis.
 For consumer loans, the valuation is performed on a 
portfolio basis.  
Interest income on loans held-for-sale is accrued and recognized 
based on the contractual rate of interest.  
Loan origination fees or costs and purchase price discounts or 
premiums are deferred in a contra loan account until the related 
loan is sold. The deferred fees and discounts or premiums are an 
adjustment to the basis of the loan and therefore are included in 

the periodic determination of the lower of cost or fair value 

adjustments and/or the gain or losses recognized at the time of 
sale.  
Held-for-sale loans are subject to the nonaccrual policies de-
scribed above. 
Because held-for-sale loans are recognized at the lower of cost or 
fair value, the Firm™s allowance for loan losses and charge-off 
policies do not apply to these loans.  
Fair value loans
 Loans used in a trading strategy or risk managed on a fair value 
basis are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value re-
corded in noninterest revenue.  
For these loans, the earned current contractual interest payment 
is recognized in interest income. Changes in fair value are recog-
nized in noninterest revenue. Loan origination fees are recognized 
upfront in noninterest revenue. Loan origination costs are recog-
nized in the associated expense category as incurred.  
Because these loans are recognized at fair value, the Firm™s 
nonaccrual, allowance for loan losses, and charge-off policies do 
not apply to these loans.  
See Note 4 on pages 187Œ189 of this Annual Report for further 
information on the Firm™s elections of fair value accounting under 
the fair value option. See Note 3 and Note 4 on pages 170Œ187 
and 187Œ189 of this Annual Report for further information on 
loans carried at fair value and classified as trading assets. 
PCI loans
 PCI loans held-for-investment are initially measured at fair value. 
PCI loans have evidence of credit deterioration since the loan™s 

origination date and therefore it is probable, at acquisition, that all 

contractually required payments will not be collected. Because PCI 

loans are initially measured at fair value, which includes an estimate 

of future credit losses, no allowance for loan losses related to PCI 

loans is recorded at the acquisition date. See page 233 of this Note 

for information on accounting for PCI loans subsequent to their 
acquisition. 
Loan classification changes 
Loans in the held-for-investment portfolio that management 
decides to sell are transferred to the held-for-sale portfolio at the 
lower of cost or fair value on the date of transfer. Credit-related 

losses are charged against the allowance for loan losses; losses 

due to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange 
rates are recognized in noninterest revenue. 
In certain limited cases, loans in the held-for-sale portfolio that 
management decides to retain are transferred to the held-for-

investment portfolio at the lower of cost or fair value on the date of 

transfer. These loans are subsequently assessed for impairment 

based on the Firm™s allowance methodology. For a further discus-

sion of the methodologies used in establishing the Firm™s allowance 

for loan losses, see Note 15 on pages 239Œ243 of this Annual 
Report.
 Loan modifications  
The Firm seeks to modify certain loans in conjunction with its 

loss-mitigation activities. Through the modification, JPMorgan 

Chase grants one or more concessions to a borrower who is 

experiencing financial difficulty in order to minimize the Firm™s 

economic loss, avoid foreclosure or repossession of the collateral 

and to ultimately maximize payments received by the Firm from 
the borrower. The concessions granted vary by program and by 
borrower-specific characteristics, and may include interest rate 

reductions, term extensions, payment deferrals, or the acceptance 

of equity or other assets in lieu of payments. In certain limited 
circumstances, loan modifications include principal forgiveness.  
Such modifications are accounted for and reported as troubled 
debt restructurings (ﬁTDRsﬂ). A loan that has been modified in a 

TDR is generally considered to be impaired until it matures, is 

repaid, or is otherwise liquidated, regardless of whether the 

borrower performs under the modified terms. In certain limited 

cases, the effective interest rate applicable to the modified loan is 

at or above the current market rate at the time of the restructur-

ing. In such circumstances, and assuming that the loan subse-

quently performs under its modified terms and the Firm expects to 

collect all contractual principal and interest cash flows, the loan is 

disclosed as impaired and as a TDR only during the year of the 
modification; in subsequent years, the loan is not disclosed as an 
impaired loan or as a TDR so long as repayment of the restruc-
tured loan under its modified terms is reasonably assured. 
Loans, except for credit card loans, modified in a TDR are gener-
ally placed on nonaccrual status, although in most cases such 
loans were already on nonaccrual status prior to modification. 

These loans may be returned to performing status (resuming the 

accrual of interest) if the following criteria are met: (a) the bor-

rower has performed under the modified terms for a minimum of 

six months and/or six payments, and (b) the Firm has an expecta-

tion that repayment of the modified loan is reasonably assured 

based on, for example, the borrower™s debt capacity and level of 

future earnings, collateral values, LTV ratios, and other current 
market considerations.  

 222 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Because TDRs are considered to be impaired, these loans are 
evaluated for an asset-specific allowance, which considers the 
expected re-default rates for the modified loans
 and is deter-
mined based on the same methodology used to estimate the 

Firm™s asset-specific allowance component regardless of whether 

the loan is performing and has been returned to accrual status. 

For further discussion of the methodology used to estimate the 

Firm™s asset-specific allowance, see Note 15 on pages 239Œ243 
of this Annual Report.
 Foreclosed property 
The Firm acquires property from borrowers through loan restructur-

ings, workouts, and foreclosures. Property acquired may include 

real property (e.g., residential real estate, land, buildings, and 

fixtures) and commercial and personal property (e.g., aircraft, 
railcars, and ships).  
At the time JPMorgan Chase takes physical possession, the 
property is recorded in other assets on the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets at fair value less estimated costs to sell. Each quarter the 

fair value of the acquired property is reviewed and adjusted, if 

necessary. Subsequent changes to fair value are charged/credited 

to noninterest revenue. Operating expense, such as real estate 
taxes and maintenance, are charged to other expense.
Loan Portfolio
 The Firm™s loan portfolio is divided into three portfolio segments, which are the same segments used by the Firm to determine the allowance 
for loan losses: Wholesale; Consumer, excluding credit card; and Credit Card. Within each portfolio segment, the Firm monitors and assesses the 

credit risk in the following classes of loans, based on the risk characteristics of each loan class:  
Wholesale
(a)
  Consumer, excluding  
credit card
(b)
  Credit Card 
 · Commercial and industrial 
· Real estate 
· Financial institutions 
· Government agencies 
· Other 
   Residential real estate Œ excluding PCI
 · Home equity Œ senior lien 
· Home equity Œ junior lien 
· Prime mortgage, including option 
ARMs 
· Subprime mortgage 
Other consumer loans
 · Auto
(c)
 · Business banking
(c)
  
· Student and other  
Residential real estate Œ PCI
 · Home equity 
· Prime mortgage 
· Subprime mortgage 
· Option ARMs 
   · Chase, excluding accounts origi-
nated by Washington Mutual 
· Accounts originated by Washington 
Mutual 
 (a)
 Includes loans reported in Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services, Asset Management and Corporate/Private Equity 
segments. 
(b)
 Includes RFS and residential real estate loans reported in the Corporate/Private Equity segment. 
(c)
 Includes risk-rated loans that apply the Firm™s wholesale methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses; these loans are managed 
by RFS, and therefore for consistency in presentation, are included with the other consumer loan classes. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 223 
 The following table summarizes the Firm™s loan balances by portfolio segment: 
December 31, 2010
 (in millions) Wholesale 
Consumer, excluding
 credit card 
Credit Card 
Total
  Retained
(a)
  $ 222,510  $ 327,464  $ 135,524 
$   685,498
 (b)
 Held-for-sale 
  3,147
   154
   2,152
   5,453
  At fair value 
  1,976
   Š   Š   1,976
  Total
  $ 227,633
  $ 327,618
  $ 137,676
  $   
692,927
   December 31, 2009 (in millions) 
Wholesale 
Consumer, excluding
 credit card 
Credit Card 
Total
  Retained 
 $ 200,077  $ 348,355  $ 78,786 
 $    627,218
 (b)
 Held
-for
-sale 
   2,734
   2,142
   Š  4,876
  At fair value
   1,364
   Š   Š  1,364
  Total
  $ 204,175  $ 350,497  $ 78,786 
 $    633,458
  (a)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated $84.7 billion of loans associ-
ated with Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts; $15.1 billion of wholesale loans; and $4.8 billion of loans associated with certain other consumer securitiza-
tion entities, primarily mortgage-related. For further information, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(b)
 Loans (other than PCI loans and those for which the fair value option has been selected) are presented net of unearned income, unamortized discounts and premiums, 

and net deferred loan costs of $1.9 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 On an on-going basis, the Firm manages its exposure to credit risk. Selling loans is one way that the Firm reduces its credit exposures. The 
following table provides information about the Firm's loan sales by portfolio segment. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
 2010
  2009
  2008
   Net gains/(losses) on sales of loans (including lower of
 cost or fair value adjustments)
(a)
     Wholesale
  $ 215
  $ 291
  $   
(2,647
 ) Consumer, excluding credit card
   265
   127
   (11
 ) Credit Card
   (16)
   21
   150
  Total net gains/(losses) on sales of loans (including lower 
of cost or fair value adjustments)
(a)
  $ 464
  $ 439
  $   
(2
,508
 ) (a)
 Excludes sales related to loans accounted for at fair value. 
Wholesale loan portfolio 
Wholesale loans include loans made to a variety of cu
stomers 
from large corporate and institutional clients to certain high-net 
worth individuals. 
The primary credit quality indicator for wholesale loans is the risk 
rating assigned each loan. Risk ratings are used to identify the 

credit quality of loans and differentiate risk within the portfolio. 

Risk ratings on loans consider the probability of default (ﬁPDﬂ) 

and the loss given default (ﬁLGDﬂ). PD is the likelihood that a 

loan will not be repaid at default. The LGD is the estimated loss 

on the loan that would be realized upon the default of the bor-

rower and takes into consideration collateral and structural 

support for each credit facility.  
Management considers several factors to determine an appro-
priate risk rating, including the obligor™s debt capacity and 

financial flexibility, the level of the obligor™s earnings, the 

amount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of 

contingencies, management strength, and the industry and 

geography in which the obligor operates. Risk ratings generally 

represent ratings profiles similar to those defined by S&P and 
Moody™s. Investment grade ratings range from ﬁAAA/Aaaﬂ  

to ﬁBBB-/Baa3ﬂ. Noninvestment grade ratings are further  

classified as noncriticized (ﬁBB+/Ba1 and B-/B3ﬂ) and criticized 

(ﬁCCC+ﬂ/ﬂCaa1 and lowerﬂ), and the criticized portion is 

further subdivided into performing and nonaccrual loans, repre-

senting management™s assessment of the collectibility of princi-

pal and interest. Criticized loans have a higher probability of 

default than noncriticized loans. 
Risk ratings are reviewed on a regular and ongoing basis by Credit 
Risk Management and are adjusted as necessary for updated 

information affecting the obligor™s ability to fulfill its obligations. 
As noted above, the risk rating of a loan considers the industry in 
which the obligor conducts its operations. As part of the overall 

credit risk management framework, the Firm focuses on the man-

agement and diversification of its industry and client exposures, 

with particular attention paid to industries with actual or potential 

credit concern. See Note 5 on pages 189Œ190 in this Annual Report 

for further detail on industry concentrations. 
 
 224 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The table below provides information by class of receivable for the retained loans in the Wholesale portfolio segment.
 As of or for the year ended December 31, 
Commercial 
 and industrial 
 Real estate 
 (in millions, except ratios)
   2010
   2009 
   2010
 2009
  Loans by risk ratings
       Investment grade 
 $ 31,697
  $ 31,203 
  $ 28,504
  $   31,986
  Noninvestment grade:
     Noncriticized 
 30,874
  28,714 
  16,425
   14,462
  Criticized performing  
 2,371
  6,079 
  5,769
   7,859
  Criticized-total nonaccrual  
 1,634
  2,245 
  2,9
37
   2,888
  Total noninvestment grade
  34,879
  37,038 
  25,131
   25,209
  Total retained loans
  $ 66,576
  $ 68,241 
  $ 53,635
  $   57,195
  % of total criticized to total retained loans 
   
  6.02%
  12.20% 
  16.23%
  18.79
 % % of nonaccrual loans to total retained loans
    
  2.45
    3.29 
  5.48
  5.05
  Loans by geographic distribution
(a)
     
  Total non
-U.S.
  $ 17,731
  $ 19,138 
  $ 1,963
 $     2,227
  Total U.S.
  48,845
   49,103 
  51,672
   54,968
  Total retained loans
  $ 66,5
76
  $ 68,241 
  $ 53,635
 $   57,195
      Net charge
-offs
  $ 40
3  $ 1,243 
  $ 86
2  $        688
  % of net charge-offs to retained loans
(b)
     0.61% 
   1.82% 
  1.61% 
    1.20
 %       Loan deliquency
(c)     
  Curren
t and less than 30 days
 past due
 and still accruing
  $ 64,501
  $ 65,692 
  $ 50,
299
  $   53,370
  30
Œ89 days
 past due 
and 
still 
accruing
  434
  276 
  290
   823
  90 or more days past due and still accruing
(d)  7
  28 
  109
   114
  Nonaccrual 
 1,634
  2,245 
  2,9
37
   2,888
  Total 
retained 
loans
  $ 66,576
  $ 68,241 
  $ 53,635
  $   57,195
  (a)
 U.S. and non-U.S. distribution is determined based predominantly on the domicile of the borrower. 
(b)
 Ratios were calculated using end-of-period retained loans. 
(c)
 For wholesale loans, the past due status of a loan is generally not a significant indicator of credit quality due to the ongoing review and monitoring of an obligor's 
ability to meet contractual obligations. For a discussion of more significant factors, see page 223 of this Note. 
(d)
 Represents loans that are 90 days or more past due as to principal and/or interest, but that are still accruing interest; these loans are considered well-collateralized.  
(e)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated $15.1 billion of wholesale 
loans. For further information, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(f) Other primarily includes loans to special purpose entities and loans to private banking clients. See Note 1 on page 164Œ165 of this Annual Report for additional infor-
mation on SPEs. 
 The following table presents additional information on the real estate class of loans within the wholesale portfolio segment for the periods ended 
December 31, 2010 and 2009. The real estate class primarily consists of secured commercial loans mainly to borrowers for multi-family and com-
mercial lessor properties. Multi-family lending specifically finances apartment buildings. Commercial lessors receive financing specifically for real 
estate leased to retail, office and industrial tenants. The commercial construction and development loans represent financing for the construction of 
apartments, office and professional buildings and malls. Other real estate loans include lodging, real estate investment trusts (ﬁREITsﬂ), single-

family, homebuilders and other real estate. 
December 31, 
Multi-family 
 Commercial lessors  
(in millions, except ratios)
 2010
   2009 
   2010
 2009 
Real estate retained loans 
$ 30,604
  $ 31,077 
 $ 15,796
 $15,170 
Criticized exposure
  3,798
   3,942 
  3,593
  3,855 
% of total real estate retained loans 
 12.41
%  12.68% 
  22.75
%   25.41%
 Criticized nonaccrual 
$ 1,01
6  $ 1,109 
 $ 1,549
 $     687 
% of total real estate retained loans 
 3.3
2%    3.57% 
  9.81
%  4.53%
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 225 
(table continued from previous page) 
Financial 
 institutions 
 Government agencies 
 Other
(e)(f)
  Total
 retained loans
(e)
   2010
   2009 
  2010
   2009 
   2010
   2009 
   2010
 2009 
         $ 22,525
 $ 14,878 
 $ 6,87
1 $ 6,684 
$ 56,450
  $ 33,780 
 $ 146,04
7 $ 118,531 
      8,480
   8,319 
  38
2  624 
 6,012
   6,704 
  62,17
3   58,823 
  317
   1,201 
     
3    28 
  320
   997 
   8,780
   16,164 
 136
   729 
  22
  5 
 781
   692 
  5,510
   6,559 
 8,933
   10,249 
  40
7  657 
 7,113
   8,393 
  76,46
3   81,546 
$ 31,458
  $ 25,127 
 $ 7,278
 $ 7,341 
$ 63,563
  $ 42,173 
 $ 222,510
 $ 200,077 
   
1.44%
  7.68% 
   0.34%
   0.45% 
  1.73%
  4.00% 
  6.42%
  11.36%
    
0.43
  2.90 
   0.30
   0.07 
  1.23
  1.64 
  2.48
   3.28 
    
    
 $ 19,756
 $ 11,755 
 $ 870
 $  1,707 
$ 25,831
 $ 18,790 
 $ 66,151
  $ 53,617
 11,702
  13,372 
  6,408
   5,634 
 37,732
   23,383 
  156,359
   146,460
$ 31,458
 $ 25,127 
 $ 7,278
 $  7,341 
$ 63,563
 $ 42,173 
 $ 222,510
  $ 200,077
          $ 72 $ 734 
 $ 2  $ Š 
$ 388
 $ 467 
 $ 1,727
  $ 3,132
   
0.23%
  2.92% 
   0.0
3%  Š% 
  0.61%
  1.11% 
  0.78%
  1.57%
                     $ 31,289
 $ 24,324 
 $ 7,22
2 $ 7,321 
$ 61,
837
 $ 40,785 
 $ 215,148
  $ 191,492
 31
  68 
  34  15 
 704
  512 
  1,493
   1,694
 2  6 
  Š  Š 
 241
  184 
  359
   332
 136
  729 
  22
  5 
 781
  692 
  5,510
   6,559
$ 31,458
 $ 25,127 
 $ 7,278
  $ 7,341 
$ 63,563
 $ 42,173 
 $ 222,510
  $ 200,077
    
   
   
   
   (table continued from previous page) 
 Commercial construction and development 
 Other 
 Total real estate loans 
   2010
   2009 
   2010
   2009 
   2010
  2009
  $ 3,395
  $ 4,599 
  $ 3,840
  $ 6,349 
 $ 53,635
  $ 57,195
  619
  1,359 
  696
  1,591 
 8,706
   10,747
  18.23
%   29.55% 
  18.13
%   25.06% 
 16.23
%   18.79%
  $ 174
  $ 313 
  $ 198
  $ 779 
 $ 2,937
  $ 2,888
  5.13
%  6.81% 
  5.16
%  12.27% 
 5.48
%   5.05%
 
 226 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Wholesale impaired loans and loan modifications  
Wholesale impaired loans include loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and/or that have been modified in a TDR. All impaired 
loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note 15 on pages 239Œ243 of this Annual Report.  
The table below set forth information about the Firm™s wholesale impaired loans. 
 December 31,  
 Commercial 
  and industrial 
   Real estate 
   Financial 
  institutions 
   Government 
  agencies 
   Other 
  Total  
 retained loans
 (in millions) 
 2010 
  2009 
  2010
   2009 
  2010 
  2009 
 2010 
 2009 
  2010
   2009 
  2010
 2009
Impaired loans
            
With an allowance 
 $ 1,512 
 $ 2,171 
 $  2,510
  $ 2,998 
 $ 127 
 $ 579 
 $ 22 
 $ 4 
 $ 697
  $ 595 
 $ 4,868
 $ 6,347
Without an allowance
(a)
   157
   89 
  445
   363 
  8
   149 
  Š
   Š 
  8
   12 
  618
  613
Total
 impaired loans
  $ 1,669 
 $ 2,260 
 $ 2,955
  $ 3,361 
 $ 135 
 $ 728 
 $ 22 
 $ 4 
 $ 705
  $ 607 
 $ 5,486
 $ 6,960
Allowance for loan losses related to 
  impaired loans
(b)
  $ 435
  $ 454 
 $ 825
  $ 1,212 
 $ 61
  $ 165 
 $ 14
  $ 1 
 $ 239
  $ 214 
 $ 1,574
 $ 2,046
Unpaid principal balance of impaired 
  loans
(c)
   2,453
   3,042 
  3,487
   3,649 
  244
   918 
  30
   4 
  1,046
   760 
  7,260
   8,373
(a)
 When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance. 
This typically occurs when the impaired loans have been partially charged-off and/or there have been interest payments received and applied to the loan balance. 
(b)
 The allowance for impaired loans is included in JPMorgan Chase™s asset-specific allowance for loan losses. 
(c)
 Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due to 

various factors, including charge-offs; interest payments received and applied to the carrying value; net deferred loan fees or costs; and discount or premiums on pur-
chased loans. 
The following table presents the Firm™s average impaired loans for the years ended 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
For the year ended 
 December 31,  
Impaired loans (average)  
(in millions)
 2010
 2009 2008 
Commercial and industrial
  $ 1,655
  $ 1,767  $ 337 
Real estate 
  3,101
   2,420   389
 Financial institutions 
  304
   685   49
 Government agencies 
  5   4   1
 Other 
  884
   468   120
 Total
(a)
  $ 5,949 
 $ 5,344  $ 896
 (a)
 The related interest income on accruing impaired loans, largely in real estate, was $21 million, $15 million and zero for the  
years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. The interest income recognized on a cash basis was not material for the  

years 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
The following table provides information about the Firm™s wholesale loans modified in troubled debt restructurings. These TDR loans are  
included as impaired loans in the above tables. 
 December 31,  
  Commercial 
   and industrial 
   Real estate 
   Financial
   institutions 
   Government
   agencies 
   Other 
   Total 
   retained loans
  (in millions) 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009
Loans modified in troubled debt 
restructurings
(a)
  $ 212 
  $ 253 
 $ 907 
 $ 856 
 $  1 
 $  Š 
 $ 22 
 $  Š 
 $  1 
 $  Š 
 $ 1,143 
 $1,109
TDRs on nonaccrual status 
 163
   222 
 831
  269 
 1  Š 
 22
  Š 
 1  Š 
 1,018
   491
Additional
 commitments to lend 
 to borrowers whose loans have 
been modified in TDRs 
 1
   33 
 Š
  6 
 Š
  Š 
 Š
  Š 
 Š
  Š 
 1
   39
(a)
 These modifications generally provided interest rate concessions to the borrower or deferral of principal repayments. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 227 
Consumer loan portfolio 
Consumer loans, excluding credit card loans, consist p
rimarily of 
residential mortgages, home equity loans, auto loans, business 
banking loans, and student and other loans, with a primary focus 

on serving the prime consumer credit market. The portfolio also 

includes home equity loans secured by junior liens and mortgage 

loans with interest-only payment options to predominantly prime 

borrowers, as well as certain payment-option loans originated by 

Washington Mutual that may result in negative amortization. 
The table below provides information about consumer retained 
loans by class, excluding the credit card loan portfolio segment. 
December 31, (in millions)  
  2010
  2009
Residential real estate 
Œ  excluding PCI 
 Home equity:
  Senior lien
(a)
 $  24,376 
$   27,376
Junior lien
(b)
   64,009 
 74,049
Mortgages: 
 Prime, including option ARMs
(c)
   74,539 
 75,428
Subprime
(c)
   11,287 
 12,526
Other consumer loans
  Auto
(c)
   48,367 
 46,031
Business banking 
  16,812
  16,974
Student and other
(c)
   15,311 
 14,726
Residential real estate 
Œ PCI
  Home equity 
  24,459
  26,520
Prime mortgage 
  17,322
  19,693
Subprime mortgage 
  5,398
  5,993
Option ARMs 
  25,584
  29,039
Total
 retained loans
 $ 327,
464
 $ 348,355
(a)
 Represents loans where JPMorgan Chase holds the first security interest on 
the property. 
(b)
 Represents loans where JPMorgan Chase holds a security interest that is 

subordinate in rank to other liens.  
(c)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to 
VIEs. Upon adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated $4.8 billion of 

certain consumer loan securitization entities, primarily mortgage-related. 

For further information, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Re-
port. 
Delinquency rates are a primary credit quality indicator for con-
sumer loans. Loans that are more than 30 days past due provide 
an early warning of borrowers that may be experiencing financial 

difficulties and/or who may be unable or unwilling to repay the 

loan. As the loan continues to age, it becomes more clear that 

the borrower is likely either unable or unwilling to pay. In the 

case of residential real estate loans, late-stage delinquencies 
(greater than 150 days past due) are a strong indicator of loans 

that will ultimately result in a short sale or foreclosure. In addition 

to delinquency rates, other credit quality indicators for consumer 

loans vary based on the class of loan, as follows: 
· For residential real estate loans, including both non-PCI and 
PCI portfolios, the current estimated loan-to-value (ﬁLTVﬂ) ra-
tio, or the combined LTV ratio in the case of loans with a junior 

lien, is an indicator of the potential loss severity in the event of 

default. Additionally, LTV or combined LTV can provide insight 

into a borrower™s continued willingness to pay, as the delin-

quency rate of high-LTV loans tends to be greater than that for 

loans where the borrower has equity in the collateral. The 

geographic distribution of the loan collateral also provides in-

sight as to the credit quality of the portfolio, as factors such as 

the regional economy, home price changes and specific events 

such as hurricanes, earthquakes, etc. will affect credit quality. 

The borrowers™ current or ﬁrefreshedﬂ FICO score is a secon-

dary credit-quality indicator for certain loans, as FICO scores 

are an indication of the borrower™s credit payment history. 

Thus, a loan to a borrower with a low FICO score (660 or be-

low) is considered to be of higher risk than a loan to a bor-

rower with a high FICO score. Further, a loan to a borrower 

with a high LTV ratio and a low FICO score is at greater risk of 

default than a loan to a borrower that has both a high LTV ra-

tio and a high FICO score.  
· For auto, scored business banking and student loans, geo-
graphic distribution is an indicator of the credit performance of 

the portfolio. Similar to residential real estate loans, geo-

graphic distribution provides insights into the portfolio per-

formance based on regional economic activity and events.  
· Risk-rated business banking and auto loans are similar to 
wholesale loans in that the primary credit quality indicators are 

the risk rating that is assigned to the loan and whether the 

loans are considered to be criticized and/or nonaccrual. Risk 

ratings are reviewed on a regular and ongoing basis by Credit 

Risk Management and are adjusted as necessary for updated 

information affecting borrowers™ ability to fulfill their obliga-

tions. Consistent with other classes of consumer loans, the 

geographic distribution of the portfolio provides insights into 

portfolio performance based on regional economic activity and 

events.
 
 228 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Residential real estate Œ excluding PCI loans 
The tables below provide information by class for residential real estate (excluding PCI) retained loans in the consumer, excluding credit card 
portfolio segment. 
  Home 
equity
 As of or for the year ended
  Senior 
lien
  Junior lien
 December 31, (in millions, except ratios) 
  2010
  2009 
 2010
 2009
  Net charge-offs 
  $ 262
  $       234 
$   
3,182
  $     4,448
  % of net charge-offs to retained loans 
  1.00
%     0.80% 
    
 4.63
%   5.62
 %        Loan delinquency
       Current and less than 30 days past due  
  $ 23,615
  $  26,543 
 $ 62,315
  $   71,534
  30Œ149 days past due  
   414
   512 
  1,508
   2,224
  150 or more days past due  
   347
   321 
  186
   291
  Total retained loans
   $ 24,376
  $ 27,376 
    
$ 64,009
  $   74,049
         % of 30+ days past due to total retained loans 
  3.12%
  3.04% 
    
 2.65
%  3.40
 % 90 or more days past due and still accruing 
  $ Š  $ Š 
 $   
 Š $          Š
  Nonaccrual loans
(a)
  
   479
   477 
  784
   1,188
  Current estimated LTV ratios
(b)
(c)
(d)
       Greater than 125% and refreshed FICO scores:  
      Equal to or greater than 660 
  $ 528
  $ 472 
$   
6,928
 $   6,788
  Less than 660 
   238
   235 
  2,4
95
  2,703
         101% to 125% and refreshed FICO scores:  
     Equal to or greater than 660 
  974
   933 
  9,403
  10,616
  Less than 660 
   325
   319 
  2,873
  3,277
         80% to 100% and refreshed FICO scores:
       Equal to or greater than 660 
   2,860
   3,038 
  13,333
  16,098
  Less than 660 
   738
   825 
  3,155
  3,657
         Less than 80% and refreshed FICO scores:
       Equal to or greater than 660 
  15,9
94
  18,591 
  22,52
7  27,225
  Less than 660 
   2,719
   2,963 
  3,295
  3,685
         U.S. government-guaranteed 
   Š   Š 
  Š  Š
  Total 
retained 
loans
   $ 24,376
 $  27,376 
$ 64,009
 $  74,049
  Geographic region
       California 
  $ 3,3
48
  $    3,658 
$ 
14,656
 $  16,990
  New York 
   3,272
  3,438 
  12,278
  13,456
  Texas 
   3,594
  4,306 
  2,239
  2,711
  Florida 
   1,088
  1,198 
  3,470
  4,123
  Illinois 
   1,635
  1,795 
  4,248
  4,849
  Ohio 
   2,010
  2,338 
  1,568
  1,865
  New Jersey 
   732
  777 
  3,617
  4,090
  Michigan 
   1,176
  1,329 
  1,618
  1,900
  Arizona 
   1,481
  1,648 
  2,979
  3,582
  Washington 
   776
  868 
  2,142
  2,481
  All other
(e)
    5,264
  6,021 
  15,194
  18,002
  Total 
retained 
loans
   $ 24,
376
  $  27,376 
$ 
64,009
 $  74,049
  (a)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, nonaccrual loans excluded mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $10.5 billion and $9.0 billion, respectively, that are 
90 days past due and accruing at the guaranteed reimbursement rate. These amounts are excluded as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally. 
(b)
 Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated, at a minimum, quar-
terly, based on home valuation models utilizing nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates and do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral val-
ues; as such, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should be viewed as estimates.  
(c)
 Junior lien represents combined LTV, which considers all available lien positions related to the property. All other products are presented without consideration of subordi-
nate liens on the property. 
(d)
 Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower™s most recent credit score obtained by the Firm; current FICO scores are obtained at least quarterly.  
(e)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes prime mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $12.9 billion and $10.8 billion, respectively. 
 (f) At December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes 30+ day delinquent mortgage loans that are insured by U.S. government agencies of $11.4 billion and $9.7 billion, respectively. 
These amounts are considered current as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 229 
 (table continued from previous page) 
 Mortgages 
 Total residential real  
 Prime, including option ARMs 
 Subprime 
 estate (excluding PCI) 
  2010
  2009 
  2010
  2009 
  2010
 2009
  $ 1,627
  $ 1,957 
  $ 1,374
  $ 1,648 
  $ 6,445
  $     8,287 
 2.15
%   2.51% 
   10.82
%     11.86% 
   3.52
%  4.14% 
    
   
    $ 69,562
(f)
  $  69,458
(f)
   $ 8,477
  $ 8,294 
  $ 163,969
  $  175,829 
 1,576
  2,629 
   1,184
  1,883 
   4,682
  7,248 
 3,401
  3,341 
   1,626
  2,349 
   5,560
  6,302 
 $  74,539
  $ 75,428 
  $ 11,287
  $ 12,526 
  $ 174,211
 $  189,379 
          6.68%
   7.91% 
  24.90%
  33.79% 
  5.88%
  7.15% 
 $ Š
  $ Š 
  $ Š
  $ Š 
  $ Š
  $ Š 
 4,320
  4,667 
   2,210
  3,248 
   7,793
  9,580 
                   $ 3,039
  $ 2,435 
  $ 338
  $ 335 
  $ 10,833
  $    
10,030
   1,595
   1,339 
   1,153
   1,169 
   5,481
   5,446 
                   4,733
   4,763 
  506
   593 
  15,616
    16,905 
  1,775
   1,913 
   1,486
   1,902 
   6,459
  7,411 
                  10,720
   12,889 
   925
   1,094 
   27,838
   33,119 
  2,786
   3,152 
   1,955
   2,663 
   8,634
   10,297 
                  32,385
   33,368 
   2,252
   2,063 
   73,158
   81,247 
  4,557
   4,803 
   2,672
   2,707 
   13,243
   14,158 
          12,949
   10,766 
   Š   Š 
   12,949
 10,766 
 $ 74,539
   $ 75,428 
  $ 11,287
   $ 12,526 
  $ 174,211
  $  
189,379
          $ 19,278
  $ 21,538 
  $ 1,730
  $ 1,720 
  $ 39,012
  $ 43,906 
  9,587
   9,784 
   1,381
   1,535 
   26,518
   28,213 
  2,569
   2,185 
   345
   407 
   8,747
   9,609 
  4,840
   5,293 
   1,422
   1,625 
   10,820
   12,239 
  3,765
   3,250 
   468
   584 
   10,116
   10,478 
  462
   461 
   275
   299 
   4,315
   4,963 
  2,026
   2,207 
   534
   617 
   6,909
   7,691 
  963
   1,009 
   294
   324 
   4,051
   4,562 
  1,320
   1,414 
   244
   301 
   6,024
   6,945 
  2,056
   2,174 
   247
   274 
   5,22
1   5,797 
 27,673
   26,113 
   4,347
   4,840 
   52,478
  54,976 
 $ 74,539
  $ 75,428 
  $ 11,287
  $ 12,526 
  $ 174,211
  $ 189,379
   
 230 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Residential real estate impaired loans and loan  
modifications Œ excluding PCI loans 
The Firm is participating in the U.S. Treasury™s Making Home 

Affordable (ﬁMHAﬂ) programs and is continuing to expand its 

other loss-mitigation efforts for financially distressed borrowers 

who do not qualify for the MHA programs.  
MHA, as well as the Firm™s other loss-mitigation programs, gen-
erally provide various concessions to financially troubled borrow-

ers including, but not limited to, interest rate reductions, term or 

payment extensions and deferral of principal payments that 

would otherwise have been required under the terms of the 

original agreement. Principal forgiveness has been limited to a 

specific modification program for option ARMs. 
Generally, borrowers must make at least three payments under the 

revised contractual terms during a trial modification and be success-

fully re-underwritten with income verification before a mortgage or 

home equity loan can be permanently modified. When the Firm 

modifies home equity lines of credit in troubled debt restructurings, 

future lending commitments related to the modified loans are 

canceled as part of the terms of the modification. 
Modifications of residential real estate loans other than PCI loans 
are generally accounted for and reported as TDRs. For further 

discussion of the accounting for loan modifications and TDRs, see 

Loan modifications on pages 221Œ222 of this Note.  
The tables below set forth information about the Firm™s residential real estate impaired loans, excluding PCI. These loans are considered to be 

impaired as they have been modified in a TDR. All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note 15 on 

pages 239Œ243 of this Annual Report.
  Home equity 
 Mortgages 
  December 31, 
Senior lien  Junior lien 
 Prime
, including option 
ARMs 
 Subprime 
 Total residential real 
 estate (excluding PCI) 
 (in millions) 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009
Impaired loans
(a)(b)
     
     
 With an allowance 
$ 211
  $ 167 
$ 258
 $ 221 
$ 1,525
 $ 552 
 $ 2,563
 $ 1,952 
$ 4,557
 $ 2,892
Without an allowance
(c)  15
   1  
 25
   1 
  559
   90 
  188
  46 
   787
   138
Total impaired loans
(d) $ 226
  $ 168  
$ 283
 $  222 
 $ 2,084
 $  642 
 $ 2,751
 $  1,998 
 $ 5,344
 $ 3,030
Allowance for loan losses 
related to impaired loans 
$ 77
  $ 73  
$ 82
 $  100 
 $ 97
 $  70 
 $ 555
 $ 494 
 $ 811
 $    737
Unpaid principal balance of 
impaired loans
(e)
  265
   178  
 402
   273 
   2,751
   783 
  
 3,777
   2,303 
   7,195
   3,537
Impaired loans on nonaccrual 
status 
 38
   30 
  63
   43 
  534
   249 
   632
  598 
  1,267
   920
(a)
 Represents loans modified in a TDR. These modifications generally provided interest rate concessions to the borrower or deferral of principal repayments. 
(b)
 There are no additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose loans have been modified in TDRs as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.  
(c)
 When discounted cash flows or collateral value equals or exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance. This typically occurs when the 
impaired loans have been partially charged-off and/or there have been interest payments received and applied to the loan balance. 
(d)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, $3.0 billion and $296 million, respectively, of loans modified subsequent to repurchase from Ginnie Mae were excluded from loans accounted for 

as TDRs. When such loans perform subsequent to modification they are generally sold back into Ginnie Mae loan pools. Modified loans that do not re-perform become subject to 

foreclosure. Substantially all amounts due under the terms of these loans continue to be insured and, where applicable, reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally. 
(e)
 Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due to various factors, 

including charge-offs; interest payments received and applied to the principal balance; net deferred loan fees or costs; and discounts or premiums on purchased loans. 
 The following table presents average impaired loans and the related interest income reported by the Firm.
 For the year ended December 31,  Impaired loans (average)  Interest income on impaired loans
(a)
   Interest income on impaired  
loans on a cash basis
(a)
 (in millions)
   2010
   2009
   2008
    2010
   2009
   2008
    2010
   2009
   2008
Home equity 
    
    
  Senior lien
  $ 207 
 $ 142  $ 39  
 $ 15 
 $ 7  $ 2  
 $ 1 
 $ 1  $ Š
Junior lien
   266 
  187   39 
   10 
  9   3  
  1 
  1   Š
Mortgages 
   
  
   
   
     
Prime
, including option ARMs
   1,530 
  496   41 
   70 
  34   2  
  14 
  8   Š
Subprime
   2,539 
  1,948   690 
   121 
  98   47  
  19 
  6   2
Total residential real estate 
  
(excluding PCI)
  $4,542
  $ 2,773  $ 809 
  $ 216 
 $ 148  $ 54  
 $ 35 
 $ 16  $ 2
(a)
 Generally, interest income on loans modified in a TDR is recognized on a cash basis until such time as the borrower has made a minimum of six payments under the new terms. As 
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, loans of $580 million and $256 million, respectively, are TDRs for which the borrowers have not yet made six payments under their modified 
terms. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 231 
Other consumer loans 
The tables below provide information for other consumer retained loan classes, including auto, business banking and student loans.  
As of or for the year ended
 December 31, 
Auto
(c)
  Business banking 
 Student and other
(c)
  Total other consumer  
(in millions, except ratios) 
 2010
  2009  
 2010
  2009 
  2010
  2009 
  2010
 2009 
Net charge-offs 
 $ 298
  $ 627  
 $ 707
  $ 842 
  $ 459
  $ 443 
   $ 1,464
  $    1,912 
% of net charge
-offs to retained 
loans 
  0.63%
  1.44%
    4.23%
    4.73%
   2.85%
  2.90%
   1.82%
 2.49% 
         
   Loan delinquency
      
   
   Current
 and less than 30 days 
 past due 
$  47,778
  $ 45,281  
$  16,240
  $ 16,277 
 $  15,074
(d)
  $ 14,479
(d)
   $ 79,092
 $  76,037 
30Œ119 days past due 
  579
   720  
  351
   427 
   23
2   240 
   1,16
2   1,387 
120 or more days past due 
  10
   30  
  221
   270 
   5   7 
   23
6   307 
Total retained loans
 $  48,367
  $ 46,031  
$  16,812
   $ 16,974 
 $  15,311
   $ 14,726 
  $ 80,490
 $  77,731 
    
        % of 30+ days past due to total 
retained loans 
 1.22%
  1.63%
   3.40%
  4.11%
   1.55%
    1.68%
       1.74%
 2.18% 
    
        90 or more days 
past due 
and still 
accruing 
$ Š
  $ Š  
$ Š
   $ Š 
 $  625
  $ 542 
  $ 625
 $  542 
Nonaccrual loans
(a)
   141
   177  
  832
   826 
   67
   74 
   1,040
   1,077 
Geographic region
           
 California 
 $ 4,307
  $ 4,440  
 $ 851
   $ 515 
  $ 1,330
  $ 1,304 
  $ 6,488
 $   6,259 
New York 
  3,875
   3,756
    2,877
   3,040
    1,305
   1,243
    8,057
   8,039 
Texas 
  4,505
   4,330
    2,550
   2,487
    1,273
   1,197
    8,3
28
   8,014 
Florida 
  1,923
   1,750
    220
   166
    722
   715
    2,865
   2,631 
Illinois 
  2,608
   2,440
    1,320
   1,380
    940
   868
    4,868
   4,688 
Ohio 
  2,961
   3,153
    1,647
   1,783
    1,010
   957
    5,618
   5,893 
New Jersey 
  1,842
   1,776
    422
   426
    502
   475
    2,766
   2,677 
Michigan 
  2,434
   2,108
    1,401
   1,613
    729
   686
    4,564
   4,407 
Arizona 
  1,499
   1,479
    1,218
   1,210
    387
   366
    3,104
   3,055 
Washington 
  716
   627
    115
   84
    279
   266
    1,110
   977 
All other 
  21,697
   20,172
    4,191
   4,270
    6,834
   6,649
    32,722
   31,091 
Total retained loans
 $  48,367
  $ 46,031  
 $ 16,812
  $ 16,974 
  $ 15,311
  $ 14,726 
  $ 80,490
 $ 77,731 
Loans by risk ratings
(b)
  
      
   
 Noncriticized 
$  5,803
  $ 4,564  
$  10,831
  $ 10,450 
   NA
   NA 
  $ 16,634
 $  15,014 
Criticized performing 
  265
   448  
  502
   517 
   NA
   NA 
   767
   965 
Criticized nonaccrual 
  12
   39  
  574
   542 
   NA
   NA 
   586
   581 
(a)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, excludes student loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the 
FFELP, of $625 million and $542 million, respectively. These amounts are excluded as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally.  
(b)
 For risk-rated business banking and auto loans, the primary credit quality indicator is the risk-rating of the loan, including whether the loans are considered to be 
criticized and/or nonaccrual. 
(c)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon the adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated certain consumer loan 
securitization entities. For further information, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(d)
 Includes 30+ day delinquent loans that are 30 days or more past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP, of $1.1 
billion and $942 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts are considered current as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding 
normally.  

 232 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Other consumer impaired loans 
The tables below set forth information about the Firm™s other consumer impaired loans, including risk-rated business banking and auto loans 
that have been placed on nonaccrual status, and any loan that has been modified in a troubled debt restructuring. 
 Auto 
 Business banking 
 Total other consumer
(c)
 December 31, (in millions) 
 2010
  2009  
 2010
  2009 
  2010
 2009
Impaired loans
        With an allowance 
 $ 102
  $ 118  
 $ 774
  $ 500 
 $ 876
  $ 
618
Without an allowance
(a)
    Š
    Š  
   Š
   Š 
   Š
   
ŠTotal impaired loans
  $ 102
  $ 118  
 $ 774
 $  500 
 $  876
 $ 
618
Allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans 
 $ 16
  $ 30  
 $ 248
 $  129 
 $  264
 $ 
159
Unpaid principal balance of impaired loans
(b)
   132
   137  
  899
   577 
   1,031
  
714
(a)
 When discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance.  
This typically occurs when the impaired loans have been partially charged-off and/or there have been interest payments received and applied to the loan balance. 
(b)
 Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired loan balances due to 
various factors, including charge-offs; interest payments received and applied to the principal balance; net deferred loan fees or costs; and discounts or premiums on 
purchased loans.
 (c)
 There were no student and other loans modified in TDRs at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
The following table presents average impaired loans. 
For the year ended December 31, 
 Impaired loans (average)
(b) (in millions)
   2010 
  2009 2008
Auto
  $ 120 
 $ 100 $   71
Business banking
   682
   396
 200
Total other consumer
(a)
  $ 802 
 $ 496 $ 271
(a)
 There were no student and other loans modified in TDRs at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
(b)
 The related interest income on impaired loans, including those on cash basis, were not material for the years 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
 The following table provides information about the Firm™s other consumer loans modified in troubled debt restructurings. These TDR loans are 
included as impaired loans in the tables above. 
 Auto 
 Business banking 
 Total other consumer
(c)
 December 31, (in millions) 
 2010
  2009 
  2010
  2009 
  2010
  2009
 Loans modified in troubled debt restructurings
(a)(b)
  $ 91 
 $ 79 
  $ 395 
 $ 17 
  $ 486 
 $ 96
 TDRs on nonaccrual status 
  39
   30 
   268
   16 
   307
   46
 (a)
 These modifications generally provided interest rate concessions to the borrower or deferral of principal repayments. 
(b)
 Additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose loans have been modified in TDRs as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 are immaterial. 
(c)
 There were no student and other loans modified in TDRs at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 233 
Purchased credit-impaired (ﬁPCIﬂ) loans 
PCI loans were determined to be credit-impaired upon acquisition 
based on specific risk characteristics of the loan, including prod-

uct type, loan-to-value ratios, FICO scores, and past-due status. 

Upon acquisition, credit-impaired loans acquired in the same 

fiscal quarter may be aggregated into one or more pools, pro-

vided that the loans have common risk characteristics. A pool is 

then accounted for as a single asset with a single composite 

interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. With 

respect to the Washington Mutual transaction, all of the con-

sumer loans were aggregated into pools of loans with common 

risk characteristics. 
PCI loans are initially recorded at fair value upon acquisition. For 
each PCI loan, or pool of loans, the Firm is required to estimate the 

total cash flows (both principal and interest) expected to be col-

lected over the remaining life of the loan or pool. These estimates 

incorporate assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the 

amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that reflect 

then-current market conditions. 
The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying 
value of the underlying loans is referred to as the accretable yield. 

This amount is not reported on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance 

Sheets but is accreted into interest income at a level rate of return 

over the remaining estimated lives of the underlying pools of loans. 

For variable-rate loans, expected future cash flows were initially 

based on the rate in effect at acquisition; expected future cash 

flows are recalculated as rates change over the lives of the loans. 
On a quarterly basis, the Firm updates the amount of loan princi-
pal and interest cash flows expected to be collected. Probable 
decreases in expected loan principal cash flows trigger the recog-

nition of impairment, which is then measured as the present 

value of the expected principal loss plus any related foregone 

interest cash flows, discounted at the pool™s effective interest 

rate. Impairments are recognized through the provision and 

allowance for loan losses. Probable and significant increases in 

expected cash flows (e.g., decreased principal credit losses, the 

net benefit of modifications) would first reverse any previously 

recorded allowance for loan losses with any remaining increases 

recognized prospectively as a yield adjustment over the remaining 

estimated lives of the underlying loans. The impacts of (i) pre-
payments, (ii) changes in variable interest rates, and (iii) any other 

changes in the timing of expected cash flows are recognized 

prospectively as adjustments to interest income. Disposals of 

loans Œ which may include sales of loans, receipt of payments in 

full by the borrower, or foreclosure Œ result in removal of the loan 

from the PCI portfolio.  
If the timing and/or amounts of expected cash flows on PCI loans 
were determined not to be reasonably estimable, no interest 

would be accreted and the loans would be reported as nonac-

crual loans; however, since the timing and amounts of expected 

cash flows for the Firm™s PCI consumer loans are reasonably 

estimable, interest is being accreted and the loans are being 

reported as performing loans. 
Charge-offs are not recorded on PCI loans until actual losses 
exceed the estimated losses that were recorded as purchase 

accounting adjustments at acquisition date. To date, no charge-

offs have been recorded for these consumer loans. 
The PCI portfolio affects the Firm™s results of operations primarily 
through: (i) contribution to net interest margin; (ii) expense re-

lated to defaults and servicing resulting from the liquidation of 

the loans; and (iii) any provision for loan losses. The PCI loans 

acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction were funded 

based on the interest rate characteristics of the loans. For exam-

ple, variable-rate loans were funded with variable-rate liabilities 

and fixed-rate loans were funded with fixed-rate liabilities with a 

similar maturity profile. A net spread will be earned on the declin-

ing balance of the portfolio, which is estimated as of December 

31, 2010, to have a
 remaining weighted-average life of 7.0 
years. 
The Firm continues to modify certain PCI loans.
 The impact of 
these modifications is incorporated into the Firm™s quarterly 

assessment of whether a probable and significant change in 

expected cash flows has occurred, and the loans continue to be 

accounted for and reported as PCI loans. The impact of modifica-

tions on expected cash flows is estimated using the Firm™s experi-

ence with previously modified loans and other relevant data. 

Additionally, the Firm monitors the performance of modifications 

and updates and/or refines assumptions as experience and 

changes in circumstances or data warrant.  
   
 234 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Residential real estate Œ PCI loans 
The table below sets forth information about the Firm™s consumer PCI loans. 
December 31, 
 Home equity
  Prime mortgage 
 (in millions, except ratios) 
  2010
  2009 
 2010
 2009
 Carrying value
(a)
  $ 24,459 
$ 26,520 
 $ 17,322 
$  19,693
 Related allowance for loan losses
(b)
   1,583
  Š 
   1,766
 1,090
       Loan delinquency 
(based on unpaid
 principal balance)
      
 Current and less than 30 days past due
  $  25,783
 $  29,697 
 $ 13,035
 $  15,404
  30Œ149 days past due 
   1,348
   2,117 
   1,468
 2,026
  150 or more days past due 
   1,181
   1,144 
   4,425
 4,542
 Total loans
  $  28,312
  $ 32,958 
 $ 18,928
 $  21,972
       % of 30+ days past due to total loans 
   8.93%
  9.89% 
               
31.13%
 29.89% 
      Current estimated LTV rat
ios 
 (based on unpaid principal balance)
(c)(d)
      
Greater than 125% and refreshed FICO scores:
      Equal to or greater than 660 
$ 6,324
 $ 6,139 
 $ 2,400
  $    1,935
 Less than 660 
  4,052
  4,401 
  2,744
 2,244 
      101% to 125% and refreshed FICO scores: 
  Equal to or greater than 660 
  6,097
  6,875 
  3,815
 4,566 
Less than 660 
 2,701
  3,141 
  3,011
 3,213 
      80% to 100% and refreshed FICO scores:  
    Equal to or greater than 660 
  4,019
  5,713 
  1,970
 3,364
 Less than 660 
 1,483
  1,930 
  1,857
 2,594
       Lower than 80% and refreshed FICO scores:  
    Equal to or greater than 660 
  2,539
  3,330 
  1,443
 1,832
 Less than 660 
  1,097
  1,429 
  1,688
 2,224
 Total unpaid principal balance
  $ 28,312
 $ 32,958 
 $ 18,928
 $  21,972
      Geographic region (based on unpaid principal balance)
     California 
 $ 17,012
 $ 19,749 
 $ 10,891
 $  12,657
 New York 
      
1,316
  1,495 
  1,111
  1,239
 Texas 
     
525
  616 
  194
  231
 Florida 
  2,595
  3,045 
  1,519
  1,801
 Illinois 
  627
  723 
  562
  650
 Ohio 
  38
  47 
  91
  106
 New Jersey 
  540
  625 
  486
  540
 Michigan 
  95
  113 
  279
  307
 Arizona 
  539
  653 
  359
  438
 Washington 
  1,535
  1,766 
  451
  533
 All other 
  3,490
  4,126 
  2,985
  3,470
 Total unpaid principal balance
  $ 28,312
 $ 32,958 
 $ 18,928
 $  21,972
 (a)
 Carrying value includes the effect of fair value adjustments that were applied to the consumer PCI portfolio at the date of acquisition. 
(b)
 Management concluded as part of the Firm™s regular assessment of the PCI loan pools that it was probable that higher expected principal credit losses would result in a decrease in 
expected cash flows. As a result, an allowance for loan losses for impairment of these pools has been recognized. 
(c)
 Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated, at a minimum quarterly, based 
on home valuation models utilizing nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates and do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral values; as such the result-
ing ratios are necessarily imprecise and should be viewed as estimates. Current estimated combined LTV for junior lien home equity loans considers all available lien positions re-

lated to the property. 
(d)
 Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower™s most recent credit score obtained by the Firm; current FICO scores are obtained at least quarterly. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 235 
(table continued from previous page) 
Subprime mortgage  
Option ARMs 
 Total PCI 
 2010
  2009  
 2010
  2009 
  2010
  2009 
$ 5,398
 $ 5,993  
$ 25,584
 $ 29,039 
 $ 72,763
 $ 81,245 
  98
   Š  
 1,494
   491 
   4,941
   1,581 
             
   
     $  4,312
  $ 4,531  
$  18,672
 $  23,709 
 $  61,802
 $  73,341 
  1,020
   1,383  
  2,215
   4,010 
   6,051
   9,536 
  2,710
   3,107  
  9,904
   9,660 
   18,220
   18,453 
$  8,042
  $ 9,021  
$  30,791
 $  37,379 
 $  86,073
 $  101,330 
          46.38%
   49.77%  
  39.36%
   36.57% 
   28.20%
   27.62%
                 
        $ 432
 $ 409 
$ 2,681
 $ 4,081 
 $ 11,837
 $ 12,564 
 2,129
  2,084 
 6,330
  6,761 
  15,255
  15,490 
   
    
  424
  481 
 4,292
  5,518 
  14,628
  17,440 
 1,663
  1,877  
 5,005
  6,291 
  12,380
  14,522 
                 374
  497  
 4,152
  4,925 
  10,515
  14,499 
 1,477
  1,917  
 3,551
  4,213 
  8,368
  10,654 
                 186
  179  
 2,281
  2,549 
  6,449
  7,890 
 1,357
  1,577  
 2,499
  3,041 
  6,641
  8,271 
$ 8,042
 $ 9,021 
$ 30,791
 $ 37,379 
 $ 86,073
 $ 101,330 
                $ 1,971
 $ 2,244 
$ 16,130
 $  19,637 
 $ 46,004
 $ 54,287 
 736
  774  
 1,703
  1,848 
  4,866
  5,356 
 435
  476  
 155
  191 
  1,309
  1,514 
 906
  1,049  
 3,916
  5,106 
  8,936
  11,001 
 438
  480  
 760
  896 
  2,387
  2,749 
 122
  135  
 131
  156 
  382
  444 
 316
  350  
 1,064
  1,166 
  2,406
  2,681 
 214
  245  
 345
  448 
  933
  1,113 
 165
  194  
 528
  708 
  1,591
  1,993 
 178
  200  
 745
  877 
  2,909
  3,376 
 2,561
  2,874  
 5,314
  6,346 
  14,350
  16,816 
$ 8,042
 $ 9,021 
$  30,791
 $  37,379 
 $ 86,073
 $ 101,330 
  
 236 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The table below sets forth the accretable yield activity for the Firm™s PCI consumer loans for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 
2008. Year ended December 31,
 Total PCI
 (in millions, except ratios) 
 2010
 2009 2008
 Balance, January 1
  $ 25,544
  $ 32,619 
 $ Š
 Washington Mutual acquisition 
  Š   Š 
  39,454
 Accretion into interest income 
  (3,232)
   (4,363) 
  (1,292
) Changes in interest rates on variable rate loans 
  (819)
   (4,849) 
  (5,543
) Other changes in expected cash flows
(a
)   (2,396)
   2,137 
  Š
 Balance, December 31
  $ 19,097
  $ 25,544 
 $ 32,619
 Accretable yield percentage 
   
4.35%
    5.14% 
   5.81
% (a)
 Other changes in expected cash flows may vary from period to period as the Firm continues to refine its cash flow model and periodically updates model assumptions. 
For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, other changes in expected cash flows were principally driven by changes in prepayment assumptions, as well as  
reclassification to the nonaccretable difference. Such changes are expected to have an insignificant impact on the accretable yield percentage. 
The factors that most significantly affect estimates of gross cash 
flows expected to be collected, and accordingly the accretable 
yield balance, include: (i) changes in the benchmark interest 

rate indices for variable rate products such as option ARM and 

home equity loans; and (ii) changes in prepayment assump-

tions. 
To date, the decrease in the accretable yield percentage has 
been primarily related to a decrease in interest rates on vari-
able-rate loans and, to a lesser extent, extended loan liquida-

tion periods. Certain events, such as extended loan liquidation 

periods, affect the timing of expected cash flows but not the 

amount of cash expected to be received (i.e., the accretable 

yield balance). Extended loan liquidation periods reduce the 

accretable yield percentage because the same accretable yield 

balance is recognized against a higher-than-expected loan 

balance over a longer-than-expected period of time.
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 237 
Credit card loans 
The credit card portfolio segment includes credit car
d loans origi-
nated and purchased by the Firm, including those acquired in the 
Washington Mutual transaction. Delinquency rates are the pri-

mary credit quality indicator for credit card loans as they provide 

an early warning that borrowers may be experiencing difficulties 

(30-days past due), as well as information on those borrowers 

that have been delinquent for a longer period of time (90-days 

past due). In addition to delinquency rates, the geographic distri-

bution of the loans provides insight as to the credit quality of the 

portfolio based on the regional economy. 
The borrower™s credit score is another general indicator of credit 

quality. Because the borrower™s credit score tends to be a lagging 

indicator of credit quality, the Firm does not use credit scores as a 

primary indicator of credit quality. However, the distribution of such 

scores provides a general indicator of credit quality trends within 

the portfolio. Refreshed FICO score information for a random sam-

ple of the credit card portfolio is indicated in the table below, as 

FICO is considered to be the industry benchmark for credit scores. 
The Firm generally originates new card accounts to prime con-
sumer borrowers. However, certain cardholders™ refreshed FICO 

scores may change over time, depending on the performance of 

the cardholder and changes in credit score technology.
The table below sets forth information about the Firm™s Credit Card loans. 
As of or for the year ended December 31, 
(in millions, except ratios) 
Chase, excluding 
Washington Mutual portfolio
(e)
  
Washington Mutual  
portfolio
(e)
  Total credit card 
  2010 
 2009  
 2010 
2009
(f)
   2010 
2009
(f)
 Net charge
-offs
  $ 11,191
  $ 6,466
  $ 2,846
  $ 3,168
 $ 14,037
  $ 9,634
 % of net charge-offs to retained loans 
   
8.73%
   9.76% 
  17.73%
   15.26% 
   9.73%
   11.07%
 Loan delinquency
(a)(b)
       Current and less than 30 days past due and still accruing
  $ 117,248
  $ 55,374 
 $ 12,670
  $ 17,316 
$ 129,918
 $ 72,690 
30 Œ 89 days past due and still accruing 
  2,092
   1,638 
  459
   974 
  2,551
   2,612 
90 or more days past due and still accruing 
  2,449
   2,118 
  604
   1,363 
  3,053
   3,481 
Nonaccrual loans 
  2   3 
  Š   Š 
  2   3 
Total retained loans
  $ 121,791
  $ 59,133 
 $ 13,733
  $ 19,653 
$  135,524
 $  78,786 
Loan delinquency ratios
         % of 30 plus days past due to total retained loans 
 3.73%
  6.35% 
  7.74%
  11.89% 
  4.14%
   7.73%
 % of 90 plus days past due to total retained loans 
  2.01
  3.58 
  4.
40
   6.94 
  2.25
   4.42 
Credit card loans by geographic region 
  California
  $ 15,454
  $ 7,115
  $ 2,650
  $ 3,873
 $  18,104
 $ 10,988
 New York 
  9,540
   4,527 
  1,032
   1,458 
  10,572
   5,985 
Texas 
  9,217
   4,154 
  1,006
   1,421 
  10
,223
   5,575 
Florida 
  6,724
   3,439 
  1,165
   1,735 
  7,889
   5,174 
Illinois 
  7,077
   3,166 
  542
   771 
  7,619
   3,937 
Ohio 
  5,035
   2,506 
  401
   562 
  5,436
   3,068 
New Jersey 
  5,070
   2,337 
  494
   707 
  5,564
   3,044 
Michigan 
  3,956
   1,977 
  273
   397 
  4,229
   2,374 
Virginia 
  3,020
   1,386 
  295
   417 
  3,315
   1,803 
Pennsylvania 
  4,521
   2,243 
  424
   598 
   4,945
   2,841 
Washington 
  2,053
   911 
  438
   596 
  2,491
   1,507 
Georgia 
  2,834
   1,477 
  398
   562 
  3,232
   2,039 
All other 
  47,290
   23,895 
  4,615
   6,556 
  51,905
   30,451 
Total retained loans
(c)
  $ 121,791
  $ 59,133
  $ 13,733
  $ 19,653
 $ 135,524
 $ 78,786
 Percentage of portfolio based on carrying value 
with estimated refreshed FICO scores
(d)
       Equal to or greater than 660 
   80.6%
  72.6% 
  56.4%
   49.2% 
  77.9%
  66.7%
 Less than 660 
 19.4
  27.4 
  43.6
   50.8 
  22.1
  33.3 
(a)
 Results reflect the impact of purchase accounting adjustments related to the Washington Mutual transaction and the consolidation of the WMMT in the second quarter 
of 2009. 
(b)
 The Firm's policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance. Under guidance issued by the 
FFIEC, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification about a 
specified event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), whichever is earlier. 
(c)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card 
securitization trusts. For further information, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(d)
 Refreshed FICO scores are estimated based on a statistically significant random sample of credit card accounts in the credit card portfolio for the period shown.  The 
Firm obtains refreshed FICO scores on a quarterly basis. 
(e)
 Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts. 
(f)
 Includes $1.0 billion of loans at December 31, 2009, held by the WMMT, which were consolidated onto the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value during the 
second quarter of 2009. Such loans had been fully repaid or charged off as of December 31, 2010. For further discussion, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this An-
nual Report. 

 238 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Credit card impaired loans 
JPMorgan Chase may offer one of a number of loan modification 
programs to credit card borrowers who are experiencing financial 

difficulty. The Firm has short-term programs for borrowers who 

may be in need of temporary relief, and long-term programs for 

borrowers who are experiencing a more fundamental level of 

financial difficulties. Most of the Firm™s modified credit card loans 

have been modified under the long-term programs. Modifications 

under the Firm™s long-term programs involve placing the customer 

on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. Modifications 

under all of these programs typically include reducing the interest 

rate on the card. Also in all cases, the Firm cancels the customer™s 

available line of credit on the credit card. Substantially all of these 

modifications, both long-term and short-term are considered to 

be troubled debt restructurings.
   If the cardholder does not comply with the modified payment 
terms, then the credit card loan agreement reverts back to its pre-
modification payment terms. Assuming that the cardholder does 
not begin to perform in accordance with those payment terms, 

the loan continues to age and will ultimately be charged-off in 

accordance with the Firm™s standard charge-off policy.  In addi-

tion, if a borrower successfully completes a short-term modifica-

tion program, then the loan reverts back to its pre-modification 

payment terms. However, in most cases, the Firm does not rein-

state the borrower™s line of credit. 
The Firm measures the allowance for loan losses related to im-
paired credit card loans as the difference between the recorded 

investment in the loan and the present value of the cash flows 

expected to be collected, discounted at the loan™s original con-

tractual interest rate and, therefore, does not consider any incre-

mental penalty rate in this measurement. 
The tables below set forth information about the Firm™s impaired 
credit card loans. All of these loans are considered to be impaired 

as they have been modified in troubled debt restructurings. 
 Chase, excluding 
 Washington Mutual  
portfolio 
 Washington Mutual  
portfolio 
 Total credit card 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2010
  2009  
 2010
 2009 
  2010
 2009
 Impaired loans with an allowance
(a)
(b)
     
    Credit card loans with modified payment terms
(c)
  $ 6,685 
 $ 3,513  
 $ 1,570 
 $ 1,617 
  $ 8,255 
$ 5,130
 Modified credit card loans that have reverted to 
pre-modification payment terms
(d)
    1,439
   812  
  311
    303 
   1,750
   1,115
 Total impaired loans
(e)
  $ 8,124
  $ 4,325  
 $ 1,881
  $ 1,920 
  $10,005
 $ 6,245
 Allowance for loan losses related to i
mpaired 
loans 
 $ 3,175
   $ 2,038  
$  894
   $ 1,079 
  $ 4,069
  $ 3,117
 (a)
 The carrying value and the unpaid principal balance are the same for credit card impaired loans. 
(b)
 There are no impaired loans without an allowance. 
(c)
 Represents credit card loans outstanding to borrowers then enrolled in a credit card modification program. 
(d)
 Represents credit card loans that were modified in troubled debt restructurings but that have subsequently reverted back to the loans™ pre-modification payment 
terms. Of the $1.8 billion total loan amount at December 31, 2010, approximately $1.2 billion of loans have reverted back to the pre-modification payment terms 
of the loans due to noncompliance with the terms of the modified loans. A substantial portion of these loans is expected to be charged-off in accordance with the 
Firm™s standard charge-off policy. The remaining $590 million of loans are to borrowers who have successfully completed a short-term modification program. The 
Firm continues to report these loans as troubled debt restructurings since the borrowers™ credit lines remain closed. Prior-period amounts have been revised to 
conform to the current presentation. 
(e)
 The increase in troubled debt restructurings from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, is primarily attributable to previously-modified loans held in Firm-
sponsored credit card securitization trusts being consolidated as a result of adopting the new accounting guidance related to VIEs.  
 The following table presents average balances of impaired credit card loans and interest income recognized on those loans. 
For the year ended  
December 31,  
Impaired loans (average)  Interest income on impaired loans
(a)
  
(in millions)
   2010
   2009
   2008
  2010
   2009
 2008
Chase, excluding Washington Mutual portfolio
  $ 8,747 
 $  3,059  $  2,386  
 $ 479 
 $ 181  $ 
167
Washington Mutual portfolio
   1,983 
  991    Š 
   126 
  70   
ŠTotal credit card
  $ 10,730 
 $ 4,050  $ 2,386  
 $ 605 
 $ 251  $ 
167
(a)
 As permitted by regulatory guidance, credit card loans are generally exempt from being placed on nonaccrual status; accordingly, interest and fees related to credit card loans 
continue to accrue until the loan is charged off or paid in full. However, the Firm separately establishes an allowance for the estimated uncollectible portion of billed and ac-
crued interest and fee income on credit card loans. 
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 239 
Note 15 Œ Allowance for credit losses 
JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for loan losses covers the
 wholesale 
and consumer, including credit card loan portfolios, and represents 
management™s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the 

Firm™s loan portfolio. Management also computes an allowance for 

wholesale and consumer lending-related commitments using meth-

odologies similar to those used to compute the allowance on the 

underlying loans. During 2010, the Firm did not make any significant 

changes to the methodologies or policies used to determine its al-

lowance for credit losses, which policies are described in the follow-

ing paragraphs.  
The allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific component, a 
formula-based component and a component related to PCI loans. 
The asset-specific component relates to loans considered to be im-
paired, which includes loans that have been modified in a troubled 

debt restructuring as well as risk-rated loans that have been placed 

on nonaccrual status. An asset-specific allowance for impaired loans 

is established when the loan™s discounted cash flows (or, in certain 

cases, the loan™s observable market price) is lower than the recorded 

investment in the loan. To compute the asset-specific component of 

the allowance, larger loans are evaluated individually, while smaller 

loans are evaluated as pools using historical loss experience for the 

respective class of assets. Risk-rated loans (primarily wholesale loans) 

are pooled by risk rating, while scored loans (i.e., consumer loans) 

are pooled by product type. 
The Firm generally measures the asset-specific allowance as the 
difference between the recorded investment in the loan and the 

present value of the cash flows expected to be collected, discounted 

at the loan™s original effective interest rate. Subsequent changes in 

impairment due to the impact of discounting are reported as an 

adjustment to the provision for loan losses, not as an adjustment to 

interest income. An asset-specific allowance for an impaired loan that 

is determined using an observable market price is measured as the 

difference between the recorded investment in the loan and the 

loan™s fair value.  
Certain loans are deemed collateral-dependent because repay-
ment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the underly-

ing collateral, rather than by cash flows from the borrower™s 

operations, income or other resources. Impaired collateral-

dependent loans are charged-off to the fair value of the collateral, 

less costs to sell, rather than being subject to an asset-specific 

reserve as for other impaired loans.  
The determination of the fair value of the collateral depends on 
the type of collateral (e.g., securities, real estate). In cases where 

the collateral is in the form of liquid securities, the fair value is 

based on quoted market prices or broker quotes. For illiquid 

securities or other financial assets, the fair value of the collateral 

is estimated using a discounted cash flow model.  
For residential real estate loans, collateral values are based upon 
external valuation sources. When it becomes likely that a bor-

rower is either unable or unwilling to pay, the Firm obtains a 

broker™s price opinion of the home based on an exterior-only 
valuation (ﬁexterior opinionsﬂ). As soon as practicable after 

taking physical possession of the property through foreclosure, 

the Firm obtains an appraisal based on an inspection that in-

cludes the interior of the home (ﬁinterior appraisalsﬂ). Exterior 

opinions and interior appraisals are discounted based upon the 

Firm™s experience with actual liquidation values as compared to 

the estimated values provided by exterior opinions and interior 

appraisals, considering state- and product-specific factors.  
For commercial real estate loans, the collateral value is generally 
based on appraisals from internal and external valuation sources. 

Collateral values are typically updated every six to twelve months, 

either by obtaining a new appraisal or by performing an internal 

analysis, in accordance with the Firm™s policies. The Firm also 

considers both borrower- and market-specific factors, which may 

result in obtaining appraisal updates or broker price opinions at 

more frequent intervals. 
See Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this Annual Report for further 
information on the fair value hierarchy for impaired collateral-

dependent loans. 
The formula-based component is based on a statistical calculation to 
provide for probable principal losses inherent in performing risk-rated 

loans and consumer loans, except for loans restructured in troubled 

debt restructurings and PCI loans. See Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of 

this Annual Report for more information on PCI loans. 
For risk-rated loans, the statistical calculation is the product of an 
estimated probability of default and an estimated loss given default. 
These factors are differentiated by risk rating and expected maturity. 

In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan, among the factors 

considered are the obligor™s debt capacity and financial flexibility, the 

level of the obligor™s earnings, the amount and sources for repay-

ment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength, 

and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These 

factors are based on an evaluation of historical and current informa-

tion, and involve subjective assessment and interpretation. Emphasiz-

ing one factor over another or considering additional factors could 

impact the risk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan. PD estimates 

are based on observable external through-the-cycle data, using 

credit-rating agency default statistics. LGD estimates are based on
 the 
Firm™s history of actual credit losses over more than one credit cycle.  
For scored loans, the statistical calculation is performed on pools of 

loans with similar risk characteristics (e.g., product type) and gener-

ally computed as the product of actual outstandings, an expected-

loss factor and an estimated-loss coverage period. Expected-loss 

factors are statistically derived and consider historical factors such as 

loss frequency and severity. In developing loss frequency and severity 

assumptions, the Firm considers known and anticipated changes in 

the economic environment, including changes in housing prices, 

unemployment rates and other risk indicators.  
A nationally recognized home price index measure is used to develop 
loss severity estimates on defaulted residential real estate loans at 

the metropolitan statistical areas (ﬁMSAﬂ) level. These loss severity 

estimates are regularly validated by comparison to actual losses 

 240 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
recognized on defaulted loans, market-specific real estate appraisals 
and property sales activity. Real estate broker price opinions are 
obtained when the loan is being evaluated for charge-off and at least 

every six months thereafter. When foreclosure is determined to be 

probable, a third-party appraisal is obtained as soon as practicable. 

Forecasting methods are used to estimate expected-loss factors, 

including credit loss forecasting models and vintage-based loss 

forecasting. 
The economic impact of potential modifications of residential real 
estate loans is not included in the formula-based allowance because 

of the uncertainty regarding the type and results of such modifica-

tions. As discussed in Note 14 on pages 220Œ238 of this Annual 

Report, modified residential real estate loans are generally accounted 

for as troubled debt restructurings upon contractual modification and 

are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance at and subsequent to 

modification. Assumptions regarding the loans™ expected re-default 

rates are incorporated into the measurement of the asset-specific 

allowance.  
Management applies judgment within an established framework to 

adjust the results of applying the statistical calculation described above. 

The determination of the appropriate adjustment is based on manage-

ment™s view of uncertainties that have occurred but are not yet re-

flected in the loss factors and that relate to current macroeconomic and 

political conditions, the quality of underwriting standards and other 

relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the 

portfolio. In addition, for the risk-rated portfolios, any adjustments 

made to the statistical calculation also consider concentrated and 

deteriorating industries. For the scored loan portfolios, adjustments to 

the statistical calculation are accomplished in part by analyzing the 

historical loss experience for each major product segment. Factors 

related to unemployment, housing prices, borrower behavior and lien 

position are incorporated into the calculation, where relevant. 
Management establishes an asset-specific allowance for lending-
related commitments that are considered impaired and computes a 
formula-based allowance for performing wholesale and consumer 

lending-related commitments. These are computed using a method-

ology similar to that used for the wholesale loan portfolio, modified 

for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown. 
 Allowance for credit losses and loans and lending-related commitments by impairment methodology 
 2010
  Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions)
 Wholesale 
Consumer,
 excluding credit card Credit Card 
Total
 Allowance for loan losses
      Beginning balance at January 1, 
 $ 7,145
  $ 14,785
  $ 9,672
  $ 31,602
 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles
(a)
   14  127   7,353   7,494
 Gross charge-offs
(a)
   1,989  8,383   15,410   25,782
 Gross (recoveries)
(a)
   (262)  (474)   (1,373)   (2,109) 
Net charge-offs
(a)
   1,727  7,909   14,037   23,673
 Provision for loan losses: 
    Excluding accounting conformity
(a)
   (673)  9,458   8,037   16,822
 Accounting conformity
(b)
   Š  Š   Š   Š
 Total provision for loan losses
   (673)
  9,458
   8,037
   16,822
 Acquired allowance resulting from Washington Mutual transaction 
  Š  Š   Š   Š Other
(c)
   2  10   9   21
 Ending balance at D
ecember 31
  $ 4,761
  $ 16,471
  $ 11,03
4  $ 32,266
      Allowance for loan losses by i
mpairment metho
dology
     Asset-specific
(d)(
e)(f)  $ 1,574  $ 1,075  $ 4,069  $ 6,718
 Formula-based
(a)(
f)   3,187  10,455   6,965   20,607
 PCI 
  Š  4,941
   Š   4,941
 Total allo
wance for loan 
losses
  $ 4,761
  $ 16,471
  $ 11,034
  $ 32,266
      Loans by impairment methodo
logy     Asset-specific
(c)
  $ 5,486  $ 6,220  $ 10,005  $ 21,711
 Formula-based 
  216
,980
  248,481
   125,519
   590,
980
 PCI 
  44  72,763
   Š   72,
807
 Total
 retained
 loa
ns
  $ 222,510
  $ 327,4
64  $ 135,524
  $ 685,498
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 241 
Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and 
requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that 
are inherently uncertain. Subsequent evaluations of the loan portfo-

lio, in light of the factors then prevailing, may result in significant 

changes in the allowances for loan losses and lending-related com-

mitments in future periods. 
At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by 

the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Control-

ler of the Firm and discussed with the Risk Policy and Audit 

Committees of the Board of Directors of the Firm. As of December 

31, 2010, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit 

losses to be appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that are 

inherent in the portfolio, including those not yet identifiable).
        (table continued from previous page) 
2009
  2008
 Wholesale 
Consumer, 
 excluding credit card
 Credit Card Total  Wholesale 
Consumer, 
 excluding credit card
 Credit Card 
Total
            $ 6,545
  $ 8,927
  $ 7,692
  $ 23,164
   $ 3,154
  $ 2,673
  $ 3,407
  $ 9,234
   Š   Š   Š   Š    Š   Š   Š   Š   3,226   10,421
   10,371   24,018    521   5,086
   5,157   
10,764
   (94)   (222)
   (737)   (1,053)    (119)   (209)
   (601)   
(929
) 
  3,132   10,199
   9,634   22,965    402   4,877
   4,556   
9,835
       
     3,684   16,032
   12,019   31,735    2,895   10,309
   6,456   
19,660
   Š   Š   Š   Š    641
   350
   586
   1,577
   3,684
    16,032
   12,019
   31,735
    3,536
   10,659
   7,042
   21,237
   Š   Š   Š   Š    229
   897
   1,409
   2,535
   48   25
   (405)   (332)    28   (425)
   390   
(7
) 
 $ 7,145
  $ 14,785
  $ 9,672
  $ 31,602
   $ 6,545
  $ 8,927
  $ 7,692
  $ 23,164
                
    $ 2,046  $ 896
  $ 3,117   6,059   $ 712  $ 332
  $ 1,450  $ 
2,494
   5,099   12,308
   6,555   23,962    5,833   8,595
   6,242   
20,670
   Š   1,581
   Š   1,581    Š   Š
   Š   
Š  $ 7,145
  $ 14,785
  $ 9,672
  $ 31,602
   $ 6,545
  $ 8,927
  $ 7,692
  $ 23,164
                
    $ 6,960
  $ 3,648
  $ 6,245
  $ 16,853
   $ 2,088
  $ 2,086
  $ 3,048
  $ 7,222
   192,982
   263,462
   72,541
   528,985
    245,777
   285,181
   101,647
   632,605
   135
   81,245
   Š   81,380
    224
   88,813
   51
   89,088
  $ 200,077
  $ 348,355
  $ 78,78
6  $ 627,218
   $ 248,089
  $ 376,080
  $ 104,746
  $ 728,915
 
 242 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
   2010
  Year ended December 31,
 (in millions) 
Wholesale 
Consumer,
 excluding credit card
 Credit Card 
Total
 Allowance for lending
-related co
mmitments
      Beginning balance at January 1,
  $ 927
  $ 12
  $ Š  $ 939
 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles
(a)
   (18)   Š   Š   
(18
) Provision for lending
-related commi
tments:
     Excluding accounting conformity
(a)
   (177)   (6)   Š   
(183
) Accounting conformity
(b)   Š   Š   Š   
Š Total provision for lending
-related commitments
   (177)
   (6)
   Š   (183
) Acquired allowance resulting from Washington Mutual transa
ction
   Š   Š   Š   Š Other
(c)
   (21)   Š   Š   (
21
) Ending balance at December 31
  $ 711
  $ 6  $ Š  $ 717
 Allowance for lending-related commitments by impairment  
methodology 
    Asset
-specific
  $ 180
  $ Š  $ Š  $ 180
 Formula
-based
   531
   6   Š   537
 Total allowance for lending
-related commitments
  $ 711
  $ 6  $ Š  $ 717
 Lending-related commitments by impairment methodology  
   Asset
-specific
  $ 1,005
  $ Š  $ Š  $ 1,005
 Formula
-based
   345,
074
   61,534
   547,227
   953,835
 Total lending
-related commitments
  $ 346,079
  $ 61,534
  $ 547,227
  $ 954,840
 Impaired collateral-dependent loans 
    Net charge
-offs
  $ 269
  $ 304
  $ Š  $ 573
 Loans measured at fair value of collateral less cost to sell
   806
   890
   Š   1,696
 (a)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Upon adoption of the guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card 
securitization trusts, its Firm-administered multi-seller conduits and certain other consumer loan securitization entities, primarily mortgage-related. As a result, $7.4 
billion, $14 million and $127 million, respectively, of allowance for loan losses were recorded on-balance sheet with the consolidation of these entities. For further 
discussion, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(b)
 Represents adjustments to the provision for credit losses recognized in Corporate/Private Equity related to the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 
(c)
 The 2009 amount predominantly represents a reclassification related to the issuance and retention of securities from the Chase Issuance Trust. For further information, 
see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. The 2008 amount predominantly represents a transfer of allowance between Corporate/Private Equity and 
Credit card.  
(d)
 Relates to risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring. 
(e)
 At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 the asset-specific consumer excluding card allowance for loan losses included troubled debt restructuring reserves of $985 
million, $754 million and $258 million respectively. The asset-specific credit card allowance for loan losses is related to loans modified in troubled debt restructurings. 
(f)
 At December 31, 2010, the Firm™s allowance for loan losses on all impaired credit card loans was reclassified to the asset-specific allowance. This reclassification had 
no incremental impact on the Firm™s allowance for loan losses. Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation. 
.  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 243 
(table continued from previous page) 
2009
  2008
 Wholesale 
Consumer,
 excluding credit card
 Credit card Total  Wholesale 
Consumer,
 excluding credit card
 Credit card 
Total 
      
     $ 634
  $ 25
  $ Š  $ 659
   $ 835
  $ 15
  $ Š  $ 850
   Š   Š   Š   Š    Š   Š   Š   Š            290   (10)   Š   280    (214)   (1)   Š   (215) 
  Š   Š   Š   Š    5   (48)
   Š   (43
)   290
   (10)
   Š   280
    (209)
   (49)
   Š   (258
)   Š   Š   Š   Š    Š   66
   Š   66
   3   (3)
   Š   Š    8   (7)
   Š   1  $ 927
  $ 12
  $ Š  $ 939
   $ 634
  $ 25
  $ Š  $ 659
       
             $ 297  $ Š  $ Š  $ 297   $ 29  $ Š  $ Š  $ 29 
  630
   12
   Š   642
    605
   25
   Š   630
  $ 927
  $ 12
  $ Š  $ 939
   $ 634
  $ 25
  $ Š  $ 659
       
    $ 1,577
  $ Š  $ Š  $ 1,577
   $ 233
  $ Š  $ Š  $ 233
   345,578
   74,827
   569,113
   989,518
    379,638
   117,805
   623,702
   1,12
1,145
  $ 347,155
  $ 74,827
  $ 569,113
  $ 991,095
   $ 379,871
  $ 117,805
  $ 623,702
  $ 1,121,378
       
    $ 500
  $ 166
  $ Š  $ 666
   $ 124
  $ 22
  $ Š  $ 146
   1,127
   210
   Š   1,
337
    1,032
   33
   Š   1,
065
  
 244 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Note 16 Œ Variable interest entities  
For a further description of JPMorgan Chase™s accoun
ting policies regarding consolidation of VIEs, see Note 1 on pages 164Œ165 of this Annual 
Report. 
The following table summarizes the most significant types of Firm-sponsored VIEs by business segment. The Firm considers a ﬁsponsoredﬂ 
VIE to include any entity where: (1) JPMorgan Chase is the principal beneficiary of the structure; (2) the VIE is used by JPMorgan Chase to 
securitize Firm assets; (3) the VIE issues financial instruments with the JPMorgan Chase name; or (4) the entity is a JPMorgan ChaseŒ

administered asset-backed commercial paper (ﬁABCPﬂ) conduit.  
Line-of-Business Transaction Type 
 Activity 
Annual Report
  page reference 
Card Services
 Credit card securiti
zation trusts
  Securitization of both originated and purchased credit card 
receivables  
 245
Œ24
6 RFS
 Mortgage and other securit
ization trusts
  Securitization of originated and purchased residential mor
t-
gages, automobile and student loans  
246
Œ24
9 IB 
Mortgage and other securitization trusts  Securitization of both originated and purchased residential 
and commercial mortgages, automobile and student loans 
246Œ249 
  Multi-seller conduits 
Investor intermediation activities: 
 Assist clients in accessing the financial markets in a cost-
efficient manner and structures transactions to meet investor 

needs 
249Œ250 
 Municipal bond vehicles
   250
Œ251
  Credi
t-relat
ed note vehicles
   252
  Asset swap vehicles
   252
Œ253
 The Firm™s other business segments are also involved with VIEs, but to a lesser extent, as follows: 
· Asset Management (ﬁAMﬂ): Sponsors and manages a limited number of funds that are deemed VIEs. As asset manager of the funds, AM 
earns a fee based on assets managed; the fee varies with each fund™s investment objective and is competitively priced. For the limited 
number of fund entities that qualify as VIEs, AM™s interests are, in certain cases, considered to be significant variable interests that result 
in consolidation of the financial results of these entities. 
· Treasury & Securities Services (ﬁTSSﬂ): Provides services to a number of VIEs that are similar to those provided to non-VIEs. TSS earns 
market-based fees for the services it provides. TSS™s interests are generally not considered to be significant variable interests and/or do 
not control these VIEs; therefore, TSS does not consolidate these VIEs. 
· Commercial Banking (ﬁCBﬂ): CB makes investments in and provides lending to community development entities that may meet the 
definition of a VIE. In addition, CB provides financing and lending related services to certain client sponsored VIEs. In general, CB does 

not control the activities of these entities and does not consolidate these entities.  
· Corporate/Private Equity: Corporate uses VIEs to issue guaranteed capital debt securities. See Note 22 on pages 265Œ266 of this Annual 
Report for further information. The Private Equity business, within Corporate/Private Equity, may be involved with entities that are 

deemed VIEs. However, the Firm™s private equity business is subject to specialized investment company accounting, which does not re-

quire the consolidation of investments, including VIEs.  
The Firm also invests in and provides financing and other services to VIEs sponsored by third parties, as described on page 253 of this Note.  
New consolidation accounting guidance for VIEs 
On January 1, 2010, the Firm implemented consolidation accounting guidance related to VIEs. The following table summarizes the incre-
mental impact at adoption. 
(in millions
, except rat
ios
) U.S. 
GAAP assets
 U.S. 
GAAP liabil
ities
 Stockholders™
 equity
 Tier 1 capital
  As of Dece
mber 31, 2009
  $2,031,989
  $1,866,624
  $ 165,365
   11.10
 % Impact of new accounting guidance for consolid
ation 
of VIEs 
     Credit card
(a)
   60,901 
  65,353 
  (4,452) 
  (0.30
 )%
 Multi-seller conduits
(b)
   17,724 
  17,744 
  (20)   Š
  Mortgage & other
(c)(d)
   9,059 
  9,107 
  (48) 
  (0.04
 )%
 Total impact of new guidance
   87,684 
  92,204 
  (4,520) 
  (0.34
 )%(e)
 Beginning balance as of January 1, 2010
  $2,119,673 
 $1,958,828 
 $ 160,845 
  10.76
 %   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
 245 
(a)
 The assets and liabilities of the Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts that were consolidated were initially measured at their carrying values, primarily 
amortized cost, as this method is consistent with the approach that Card Services utilizes to manage its other assets. These assets were primarily recorded in loans 
on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheet. In addition, Card Services established an allowance for loan losses of $7.4 billion (pretax), which was reported as a transi-
tion adjustment in stockholders™ equity. The impact to stockholders™ equity also includes a decrease to AOCI of $116 million, as a result of the reversal of the fair 

value adjustments taken on retained AFS securities that were eliminated in consolidation. 
(b)
 The assets and liabilities of the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits which were consolidated were initially measured at their carrying values, primarily amortized 
cost, as this method is consistent with the business™s intent to hold the assets for the longer-term. The assets are recorded primarily in loans and in other assets on 
the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(c)
 RFS consolidated certain mortgage and other consumer securitizations, which resulted in a net increase in both assets and liabilities of $4.7 billion ($3.5 billion 
related to residential mortgage securitizations and $1.2 billion related to other consumer securitizations). These assets were initially measured at their unpaid princi-

pal balance and recorded primarily in loans on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. This method was elected as a practical expedient.  
(d)
 IB consolidated certain mortgage and other consumer securitizations, which resulted in a net increase in both assets and liabilities of $4.3 billion ($3.7 billion related 
to residential mortgage securitizations and $0.6 billion related to other consumer securitizations). These assets were initially measured at their fair value, as this 

method is consistent with the approach that IB utilizes to manage similar assets. These assets were recorded primarily in trading assets on the Firm™s Consolidated 

Balance Sheets. 
(e)
 The U.S. GAAP consolidation of the credit card securitization trusts did not have a significant impact on risk-weighted assets on the adoption date because the 
Chase Issuance Trust (the Firm™s primary credit card securitization trust) had been consolidated for regulatory capital purposes beginning in the second quarter of 

2009, which added approximately $40.0 billion of risk-weighted assets for regulatory capital purposes. In addition, the Firm elected a two-quarter regulatory imple-
mentation deferral of the effect of this accounting guidance on risk-weighted assets and risk-based capital requirements, as permitted for its Firm-administered 
multi-seller conduits and certain mortgage-related and other securitization entities. The deferral period ended July 1, 2010, and the Firm consolidated, for regulatory 
capital purposes, the deferred amounts, which had a negligible impact on risk-weighted assets and risk-based capital ratios.
 Significant Firm-sponsored variable interest entities 
Credit card securitizations 
The Card Services (ﬁCSﬂ) business securitizes originated and pur-
chased credit card loans, primarily through the Chase Issuance Trust 

(the ﬁTrustﬂ). The Firm™s continuing involvement in credit card securi-

tizations includes servicing the receivables, retaining an undivided 

seller™s interest in the receivables, retaining certain senior and subor-

dinated securities and maintaining escrow accounts. As servicer, the 

Firm receives contractual servicing fees based on the securitized loan 

balance plus excess servicing fees, which are recorded in credit card 

income as discussed in Note 7 on page 200 of this Annual Report.  
Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm consolidated the assets and 
liabilities of Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts, including 

its primary card securitization trust, Chase Issuance Trust, as a result 

of the implementation of new accounting guidance. The consolida-

tion determination was based on the Firm™s ability to direct the 

activities of these VIEs through its servicing responsibilities and other 
duties, including making decisions as to the receivables that are 

transferred into those trusts and as to any related modifications and 

workouts. Additionally, the nature and extent of the Firm™s other 

continuing involvement with the trusts, as indicated above, obligates 

the Firm to absorb losses and gives the Firm the right to receive 

certain benefits from these VIEs that could potentially be significant.  
Upon consolidation at January 1, 2010, the Firm recorded a net 
increase in GAAP assets of $60.9 billion on the Consolidated Balance 

Sheet, as follows: $84.7 billion of loans; $7.4 billion of allowance for 

loan losses; $4.4 billion of other assets, partially offset by $20.8 

billion of previously recognized assets, consisting primarily of retained 

AFS securities that were eliminated upon consolidation. In addition, 

the Firm recognized $65.4 billion of liabilities representing the trusts™ 

beneficial interests issued to third parties.
 The following table summarizes the assets and liabil
ities of the Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts at December 31, 2010. 
(in billions)
 Loans 
Other assets 
Total assets held by Firm
Œsponsored  
credit card securitization trusts 
Beneficial interests 
 issued to third parties
 December 31, 2010 
$   67.2 
$   1.3 
$   68.5 
$   44.3 
 The underlying securitized credit card receivables and other assets 

are available only for payment of the beneficial interests issued by 

the securitization trusts; they are not available to pay the Firm™s 

other obligations or the claims of the Firm™s other creditors. 
The agreements with the credit card securitization trusts require the 
Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest in the credit card 

trusts (which generally ranges from 4% to 12%). As of December 

31, 2010, the Firm held undivided interests in Firm-sponsored 

credit card securitization trusts of $17.2 billion. The Firm main-

tained an average undivided interest in principal receivables owned 

by those trusts of approximately 19% for the year ended December 

31, 2010. The Firm also retained $1.1 billion of senior securities 

and $3.2 billion of subordinated securities in certain of its credit 

card securitization trusts as of December 31, 2010. The Firm™s 
undivided interests in the credit card trusts and securities retained 

are eliminated in consolidation. 
Accounting Treatment Prior to January 1, 2010
 Prior to January 1, 2010, the Firm accounted for its credit card 

securitizations as QSPEs and therefore these entities were not 

consolidated. The Firm recorded only its retained interests in the 

entities on its Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding of 
total assets held by Firm-sponsored nonconsolidated credit card 

securitizations QSPEs was $109.6 billion in which the Firm had 

continuing involvement. 
At December 31, 2009, the Firm retained undivided interests in its 
Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts of $16.7 billion, 

 246 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
which were classified within loans on its Consolidated Balance 
Sheets. The Firm maintained an average undivided interest in 

principal receivables owned by those trusts of approximately 16% 

for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Firm also retained  

$7.2 billion of senior securities and $6.6 billion of subordinated 

securities in certain of its credit card securitization trusts as of 

December 31, 2009, which were classified as AFS securities. Addi-

tionally, the Firm™s interests included $1.0 billion of escrow ac-

counts and $3.2 billion of retained subordinated interests in 

accrued interest and fees on securitized receivables, which were 

classified as ﬁother assets.ﬂ  
During 2009, the Firm took certain actions permitted by the trust 
agreements with respect to two of the Firm™s credit card securitiza-

tion trusts.  
· Chase Issuance Trust (the ﬁTrustﬂ): In 2009, the Firm consoli-
dated, for regulatory capital purposes, the Chase Issuance Trust 

(the Firm™s primary issuance trust) as a result of taking certain 

actions permitted by the Trust agreements, including increasing 

the required credit enhancement level of each tranche of out-

standing notes issued by the Trust and increasing the excess 

spread for the Trust. These actions resulted in the addition of 

approximately $40 billion of risk-weighted assets for regulatory 

capital purposes, which decreased the Firm™s Tier 1 capital ratio 

by approximately 40 basis points, at that time, but did not have 

a material impact on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or 

results of operations. 
· Washington Mutual Master Trust (ﬁWMMTﬂ): The Firm acquired 

an interest in the WMMT as part of the acquisition of the Wash-

ington Mutual banking operations. In 2009, the Firm removed all 

remaining credit card receivables originated by Washington Mu-

tual, resulting in the consolidation of the WMMT for accounting 

and regulatory capital purposes. As a result, the Firm recorded, 

during the second quarter of 2009, additional assets with an ini-

tial fair value of $6.0 billion, additional liabilities with an initial 

fair value of $6.1 billion and a pretax loss of approximately $64 

million. 
Firm-sponsored mortgage and other securitization trusts 

The Firm securitizes originated and purchased residential mortgages, 

commercial mortgages and other consumer loans (including automo-

bile and student loans) primarily in its RFS and IB businesses. De-

pending on the particular transaction, as well as the respective 

business involved, the Firm may act as the servicer of the loans and/or 

retain certain beneficial interests in the securitization trusts.  
Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm consolidated certain mortgage 
securitization trusts (both residential and commercial) and Firm-

sponsored automobile and student loan trusts as a result of the 

implementation of the accounting guidance. The consolidation 

determination was based on the Firm™s ability to direct the activities 

of these VIEs through its servicing responsibilities and duties, 

including making decisions related to loan modifications and work-

outs. Additionally, the nature and extent of the Firm™s continuing 

economic involvement with these trusts obligates the Firm to ab-

sorb losses and gives the Firm the right to receive benefits from the 

VIEs that could potentially be significant.  
Prior to January 1, 2010, the Firm accounted for its residential and 
commercial mortgage, automobile, and certain student loan securiti-

zations as QSPEs and therefore did not consolidate these entities; 

only the Firm™s retained interests in these entities were recorded on its 

Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, the Firm previously consoli-

dated certain other student loan securitizations in accordance with 

the accounting treatment under prior accounting guidance. 
The following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of 
assets held in JPMorgan ChaseŒsponsored securitization entities in 

which the Firm has continuing involvement, including those that 

are consolidated by the Firm and those that are not consolidated by 

the Firm. Continuing involvement includes servicing the loans; 

holding senior interests or subordinated interests; recourse or 

guarantee arrangements; and derivative transactions. In certain 

instances, the Firm™s only continuing involvement is servicing the 

loans. In the table below, the amount of beneficial interests held by 

JPMorgan Chase does not equal the assets held in nonconsolidated 

VIEs because of the existence of beneficial interests held by third 

parties, which are reflected at their current outstanding par 

amounts; and because a portion of the Firm™s retained interests 

(trading assets and AFS securities) are reflected at their fair values. 

See Securitization activity on pages 255Œ258 of this Note for fur-

ther information regarding the Firm™s cash flows with and interests 

retained in nonconsolidated VIEs. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 247 
Firm-sponsored mortgage and other consumer securitization trusts 
 Principal amount outstanding 
 JPMorgan Chase interest in securitized assets  
in nonconsolidated VIEs
(d)(e)(f)(g)(h)
 December 31, 2010
(a)
 (in billions)
 Total assets  
held by  
securitization VIEs 
Assets held in 
consolidated 
securitization VIEs 
Assets held in 
nonconsolidated 
securitization VIEs 
with continuing 
involvement 
Trading  
assets 
AFS 
securities 
Other  
assets 
 Total interests 
 held by  
JPMorgan 
Chase 
Securitization-related  
      Residential mortgage: 
       
Prime
(b)
  $ 153.1  $ 2.2  $ 143.8  $ 0.7  $ Š  $ Š 
$  0.7
 Subprime 
  44.0   1.6   40.7   Š   Š   Š 
Š Option ARMs 
  36.1   0.3   35.8   Š   Š   Š 
Š Commercial and other
(c)
   153.4   Š   106.2   2.0   0.9   Š 
2.9
 Student  
  4.5   4.5   Š   Š   Š   Š 
Š Auto 
  Š   Š   Š   Š   Š   Š 
Š Total 
 $ 391.1  $ 8.6  $ 326.5  $ 2.7  $ 0.9  $ Š 
$  3.6
   Principal amount outstanding 
 JPMorgan Chase interest in securitized assets  
in nonconsolidated VIEs
(d)(e)(f)(g)(h)
 December 31, 2009
(a)
 (in billions)
 Total assets  
held by  
securitization VIEs 
Assets held in 
consolidated 
securitization VIEs 
Assets held in 
nonconsolidated 
securitization VIEs 
with continuing 
involvement 
Trading  
assets 
AFS 
securities 
Other  
assets 
 Total interests 
held by  
JPMorgan 
Chase 
Securitization-related 
      
 Residential mortgage:  
      Prime
(b)
  $ 183.3  $ 
Š  $ 171.5  $ 0.9  $ 0.2  $ 
Š  $  1.1
Subprime 
  50.0   
Š   47.3   
Š   
Š   
Š   
ŠOption ARMs 
  42.0   
Š   42.0   
Š   0.1   
Š   0.1
Commercial and other
(c)
   155.3   
Š   24.8   1.6   0.8   
Š   2.4
Student    4.8   3.8   1.0   
Š   
Š   0.1   0.1
Auto 
  0.2   
Š   0.2   
Š   
Š   
Š   
ŠTotal 
 $ 435.6  $ 3.8  $ 286.8  $ 2.5  $ 1.1  $ 0.1  $  3.7
(a)
 Excludes loan sales to U.S. government agencies. See page 257 of this Note for information on the Firm™s loan sales to U.S. government agencies. 
(b)
 Includes Alt-A loans.  
(c)
 Consists of securities backed by commercial loans (predominantly real estate) and non-mortgage-related consumer receivables purchased from third parties. The Firm 
generally does not retain a residual interest in its sponsored commercial mortgage securitization transactions. Includes co-sponsored commercial securitizations and, 
therefore, includes nonŒJPMorgan ChaseŒoriginated commercial mortgage loans. 
(d)
 Excludes retained servicing (for a discussion of MSRs, see Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of this Annual Report) and securities retained from loan sales to U.S. govern-
ment agencies. 
(e)
 Excludes senior and subordinated securities of $182 million and $18 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010, and $729 million and $146 million, respectively, at 
December 31, 2009, which the Firm purchased in connection with IB™s secondary market-making activities.  
(f)
 Includes investments acquired in the secondary market that are predominantly for held-for-investment purposes, of $315 million and $139 million as of December 31, 
2010 and 2009, respectively. This comprises $238 million and $91 million of AFS securities, related to commercial and other; and $77 million and $48 million of in-
vestments classified as trading assetsŒdebt and equity instruments, including $39 million and $47 million of residential mortgages, and $38 million and $1 million of 

commercial and other, all respectively, at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
(g)
 Excludes interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives primarily used to manage the interest rate and foreign exchange risks of the securitization entities. See Note 6 

on pages 191Œ199 of this Annual Report for further information on derivatives. 
(h)
 Includes interests held in re-securitization transactions. 

 248 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Residential mortgage 
The Firm securitizes residential mortgage loans originated by RFS, 
as well as residential mortgage loans purchased from third parties 

by either RFS or IB. RFS generally retains servicing for all residential 

mortgage loans originated or purchased by RFS, and for certain 
mortgage loans purchased by IB. 
For securitizations serviced by RFS, the Firm has the power to direct 
the significant activities of the VIE because it is responsible for 

decisions related to loan modifications and workouts. In a limited 

number of these securitizations, RFS also retains an interest in the 

VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In these in-
stances, the Firm is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. At  
December 31, 2010, approximately $2.9 billion of assets and $3.0 

billion of liabilities of Firm-sponsored residential mortgage securiti-

zation trusts were consolidated on balance sheet. For Firm-

sponsored securitizations serviced by unrelated third parties, the 

Firm does not consolidate the VIE as the power to direct the signifi-

cant activities resides with the third party servicer. At December 31, 

2009, RFS did not consolidate any VIEs in accordance with the 

accounting treatment under prior accounting rules. RFS held re-

tained interests of approximately $205 million and $537 million as 

of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in nonconsolidated 

residential mortgage securitization entities. See pages 257Œ258 of 
this Note for further information on retained interests held in non-
consolidated VIEs; these retained interests are classified as trading 
assets or AFS securities.  
The Firm™s mortgage loan sales are primarily nonrecourse, thereby 
effectively transferring the risk of future credit losses to the pur-
chaser of the mortgage-backed securities issued by the trust. How-

ever, for a limited number of loan sales, the Firm is obligated to 

share a portion of the credit risk associated with the sold loans with 

the purchaser. See Note 30 on pages 275Œ280 of this Annual 

Report for additional information on loans sold with recourse, as 

well as information on indemnification liability for breaches of 

representations and warranties. See page 257 of this Note for 
further information on loans sold to U.S. government agencies. 
IB engages in underwriting and trading activities involving securi-
ties issued by Firm-sponsored securitization trusts. As a result, IB at 

times retains senior and/or subordinated interests (including resid-

ual interests) in residential mortgage securitizations upon securiti-

zation, and/or reacquires positions in the secondary market in the 

normal course of business. In certain instances, as a result of the 

positions retained or reacquired by IB, when considered together 
with the servicing arrangements entered into by RFS, the Firm is 
deemed to be the primary beneficiary of certain securitization 

trusts. At December 31, 2010, $1.2 billion of VIE assets and $702 

million of liabilities were consolidated due to IB™s involvement with 

such trusts. IB did not consolidate any residential securitization VIEs 

at December 31, 2009, in accordance with the accounting treat-

ment under prior accounting rules. IB held approximately $461 

million, and $479 million of senior and subordinated interests at 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in nonconsolidated 

residential mortgage securitization entities. This includes approxi-

mately $1 million and $2 million of residual interests at December 
31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See pages 257Œ258 of this Note 

for further information on interests held in nonconsolidated securi-

tizations. These retained interests are accounted for at fair value 
and classified as trading assets. 
Commercial mortgages and other consumer securitizations  
IB originates and securitizes commercial mortgage loans, and 
engages in underwriting and trading activities involving the securi-

ties issued by securitization trusts. IB may retain unsold senior 

and/or subordinated interests in commercial mortgage securitiza-

tions at the time of securitization but, generally, the Firm does not 

service commercial loan securitizations. For commercial mortgage 
securitizations the power to direct the significant activities of the 
VIE generally is held by the servicer or investors in a specified class 

of securities (ﬁcontrolling classﬂ). At December 31, 2010, approxi-

mately $84 million of VIE assets and $82 million of VIE liabilities of 

commercial mortgage securitization trusts were consolidated due to 

the Firm holding certain subordinated interests that give the Firm 

the power to direct the activities of these entities as well as a 

significant interest. IB did not consolidate any commercial mort-

gage securitization VIEs at December 31, 2009, in accordance with 

the accounting treatment under prior accounting rules. At Decem-

ber 31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm held $2.0 billion and $1.6 billion, 

respectively, of retained interests in nonconsolidated commercial 
mortgage securitizations. This included approximately zero and $22 
million of residual interests as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 
respectively. 
The Firm also securitizes automobile and student loans originated by 
RFS, and consumer loans (including automobile and student loans) 
purchased by IB. The Firm retains servicing responsibilities for all 

originated and certain purchased student and automobile loans and 

has the power to direct the activities of these VIEs through these 

servicing responsibilities. At December 31, 2010, $4.5 billion of 

assets and $3.2 billion of liabilities of student loan securitizations 

were consolidated due to the combination of retained interests held 

by the Firm and servicing responsibilities. Auto loans previously 

securitized were repurchased by the Firm during 2010 as these 

securitization entities were terminated. As of December 31, 2009, 

the Firm held $9 million and $49 million of retained interests in 

securitized automobile and student loan securitizations, respectively, 
which were not consolidated in accordance with the accounting 
treatment under prior accounting rules. These retained interests were 

reported in other assets. In addition, at December 31, 2009, the Firm 

held interests in other student loans which resulted in $3.8 billion of 

other student loans being consolidated on the balance sheet in 

accordance with the accounting treatment under prior accounting 
rules. 
Re-securitizations 
The Firm engages in re-securitization transactions in which securi-
ties are transferred to a VIE in exchange for new beneficial inter-

ests. Re-securitizations involve the repackaging of securities 

previously issued by both agency sponsored (Fannie Mae, Freddie 

Mac and Ginnie Mae) and nonagency (private-label) VIEs that are 

generally backed by either residential or commercial mortgages. A 

re-securitization entity receives principal and interest payments 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 249 
from the securities held in the entity and passes them to the benefi-
cial interest holders. These entities are not actively managed and 
are passive in nature. Re-securitization entities are often estab-

lished to the specifications of the investors. In a re-securitization 

entity, the most significant power is in the design of the entity (i.e., 

the decision as to the specific security or securities to be repack-

aged and the terms of the beneficial interests issued). The power 
over a re-securitization entity is often considered to be shared 
between the sponsor and investor(s) that are significantly involved 

in the creation and design of the re-securitization entity. At Decem-

ber 31, 2010, the Firm did not consolidate any agency re-

securitizations, as it did not have the unilateral power to direct the 

significant activities of the re-securitization entity. At December 31, 

2010, the Firm consolidated $477 million of assets and $230 

million of liabilities of private-label re-securitizations, as the Firm 

had both the unilateral power to direct the significant activities of, 

and retained a significant interest in, these re-securitization entities. 

As of December 31, 2009, the Firm did not consolidate any re-

securitization entities (agency or private-label) in accordance with 

the accounting treatment under prior accounting rules.  
During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, the 
Firm transferred $33.9 billion, $19.1 billion and $16.8 billion, 

respectively, of securities to agency re-securitization entities and 
$1.3 billion, $4.0 billion and $2.7 billion to private-label re-
securitization entities. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm 

held approximately $3.5 billion and $1.6 billion of both senior and 

subordinated interests in nonconsolidated agency re-securitization 

entities and $46 million and $220 million of both senior and subor-

dinated interests, in nonconsolidated private-label re-securitization 

entities. See pages 257Œ258 of this Note for further information on 
interests held in nonconsolidated securitization VIEs. 
Multi-seller conduits 
The Firm is an active participant in the asset-backed securities 

business, and it helps customers meet their financing needs by 

providing access to the commercial paper markets through VIEs 

known as multi-seller conduits. Multi-seller conduit entities are 

separate bankruptcy remote entities that purchase interests in, and 

make loans secured by, pools of receivables and other financial 

assets pursuant to agreements with customers of the Firm. The 
conduits fund their purchases and loans through the issuance of 
highly rated commercial paper to third-party investors. The primary 

source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flows from 

the pools of assets. In most instances, the assets are structured 

with deal-specific credit enhancements provided by the customers 

(i.e., sellers) to the conduits or other third parties. Deal-specific 

credit enhancements are generally structured to cover a multiple of 

historical losses expected on the pool of assets, and are typically in 

the form of overcollateralization provided by the seller, but also 

may include any combination of the following: recourse to the seller 

or originator, cash collateral accounts, letters of credit, excess 

spread, retention of subordinated interests or third-party guaran-
tees. The deal-specific credit enhancements mitigate the Firm™s 
potential losses on its agreements with the conduits.  
To ensure timely repayment of the commercial paper, each asset 
pool financed by the conduits has a minimum 100% deal-specific 

liquidity facility associated with it. Deal-specific liquidity facilities 

are the primary source of liquidity support for the conduits and are 

typically in the form of asset purchase agreements. They are gener-

ally structured so the liquidity that will be provided by the Firm (as 

liquidity provider) will be effected by the Firm purchasing, or lend-
ing against, a pool of nondefaulted, performing assets. In limited 
circumstances, the Firm may provide unconditional liquidity. 
The conduit™s administrative agent can require the liquidity provider 
to perform under its asset purchase agreement with the conduit at 
any time. These agreements may cause the liquidity provider, which 
is generally the Firm, to purchase an asset from the conduit at an 

amount above the asset™s then current fair value Œ in effect, provid-
ing a guarantee of the asset™s initial value. 
The Firm also provides the multi-seller conduit vehicles with program-
wide liquidity facilities in the form of uncommitted short-term revolv-

ing facilities established to handle funding increments too small to be 

funded by commercial paper and that can be accessed by the con-

duits only in the event of short-term disruptions in the commercial 
paper market. 
Because the majority of the deal-specific liquidity facilities will only 
fund nondefaulted assets, program-wide credit enhancement is 

required to absorb losses on defaulted receivables in excess of losses 

absorbed by any deal-specific credit enhancement. Program-wide 

credit enhancement may be provided by JPMorgan Chase in the form 

of standby letters of credit or by third-party surety bond providers. The 

amount of program-wide credit enhancement required varies by 

conduit and ranges between 5% and 10% of the applicable commer-

cial paper that is outstanding. The Firm provided $2.0 billion and 

$2.4 billion of program-wide credit enhancement at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively. 
JPMorgan Chase receives fees for structuring multi-seller conduit 
transactions and compensation from the multi-seller conduits for its 

role as administrative agent, liquidity provider, and provider of 

program-wide credit enhancement.  
Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm consolidated its Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits, as the Firm has both the power 

to direct the significant activities of the conduits and a potentially 
significant economic interest in the conduits. The Firm directs the 
economic performance of the conduits as administrative agent and 

in its role in structuring transactions for the conduits. In these roles, 

the Firm makes decisions regarding concentration of asset types 

and credit quality of transactions, and is responsible for managing 

the commercial paper funding needs of the conduits. The Firm™s 

interests that could potentially be significant to the VIEs include the 

fees received as administrative agent, liquidity provider and pro-

vider of program-wide credit enhancement, as well as the Firm™s 

potential exposure as a result of the liquidity and credit enhance-
ment facilities provided to the conduits. 

 250 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
December 31, 2010 (in billions)
 Loans 
Other assets 
Total assets held by Firm- 
administered multi-seller conduits 
Commercial paper 
 issued to third parties
 Consolidated
(a)
 $     21.1 
$   0.6 
$     21.7 
$   21.6 
(a)
 The Firm provided certain deal-specific liquidity facilities (primarily asset purchase agreements); program-wide liquidity facilities; and program-wide credit enhancements 
that were eliminated in consolidation. 
Accounting Treatment Prior to January 1, 2010
 Prior to January 1, 2010, the Firm had consolidated one of its 
multi-seller conduits; all other Firm-administered multi-seller con-

duits were not consolidated in accordance with prior accounting 

rules. Under prior accounting rules, the party that absorbed the 

majority of the entity™s expected losses, received a majority of the 

entity™s residual returns, or both, would consolidate. Each noncon-

solidated multi-seller conduit administered by the Firm at December 

31, 2009 had issued Expected Loss Notes (ﬁELNsﬂ), the holders of 

which were committed to absorbing the majority of the expected 

loss of each respective conduit. The total amounts of ELNs out-

standing for nonconsolidated conduits at December 31, 2009 was 

$96 million.  
At December 31, 2009, total assets funded and commercial paper 
issued by Firm-sponsored multi-seller conduits were as follows. 
December 31, 2009 (in billions)
 Total 
 assets funded 
  Commercial 
 paper issued 
Consolidated
  $  
5.1
 $  
5.1
Non-consolidated
(a)
  17.8 
17.8
(a)
 The Firm provided certain deal-specific liquidity facilities (primarily asset 
purchase agreements) of $24.2 billion. Additionally, the Firm provided  
program-wide liquidity facilities of $13.0 billion and program-wide credit  
enhancements of $2.0 billion. 
The Firm™s maximum exposure to loss on nonconsolidated Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits was $24.8 billion at December 31, 
2009. The maximum exposure to loss, calculated separately for each 

multi-seller conduit, included the Firm™s exposure to both deal-specific 

liquidity facilities and program wide credit enhancements. For pur-

poses of calculating maximum exposure to loss, Firm-provided pro-

gram-wide credit enhancement was limited to deal-specific liquidity 

facilities provided to third parties. 
VIEs associated with investor intermediation activities 
As a financial intermediary, the Firm creates certain types of VIEs 

and also structures transactions, typically using derivatives, with 

these VIEs to meet investor needs. The Firm may also provide 

liquidity and other support. The risks inherent in the derivative 

instruments or liquidity commitments are managed similarly to 

other credit, market or liquidity risks to which the Firm is ex-

posed. The principal types of VIEs for which the Firm is engaged 

in on behalf of clients are municipal bond vehicles, credit-related 

note vehicles and asset swap vehicles. 
Municipal bond vehicles 
The Firm has created a series of trusts that provide short-term 

investors with qualifying tax-exempt investments, and that allow 

investors in tax-exempt securities to finance their investments at 

short-term tax-exempt rates. In a typical transaction, the vehicle 

purchases fixed-rate longer-term highly rated municipal bonds and 

funds the purchase by issuing two types of securities: (1) putable 

floating-rate certificates and (2) inverse floating-rate residual inter-

ests (ﬁresidual interestsﬂ). The maturity of each of the putable 

floating-rate certificates and the residual interests is equal to the 

life of the vehicle, while the maturity of the underlying municipal 

bonds is longer. Holders of the putable floating-rate certificates 

may ﬁput,ﬂ or tender, the certificates if the remarketing agent 

cannot successfully remarket the floating-rate certificates to an-

other investor. A liquidity facility conditionally obligates the liquidity 

provider to fund the purchase of the tendered floating-rate certifi-

cates. If funded, the liquidity facility would be repaid by the pro-

ceeds from the sale of the underlying municipal bonds upon 

termination of the vehicle. In certain transactions, if the proceeds 

from the sale of the underlying municipal bonds are not sufficient 

to repay the liquidity facility, the liquidity provider has recourse to 

the residual interest holders for reimbursement. 
The holders of the residual interests in these vehicles could experi-
ence losses if the face amount of the putable floating-rate certifi-

cates exceeds the market value of the municipal bonds upon 

termination of the vehicle. Certain vehicles require a smaller initial 

investment by the residual interest holders and thus do not result in 

excess collateralization. For these vehicles there exists a reim-

bursement obligation which requires the residual interest holders to 

post, during the life of the vehicle, additional collateral to the Firm, 

as liquidity provider, on a daily basis should the market value of the 

municipal bonds decline. 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. often serves as the sole liquidity pro-
vider, and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as remarketing agent, of the 

putable floating-rate certificates. The liquidity provider™s obligation to 

perform is conditional and is limited by certain termination events, 

which include bankruptcy or failure to pay by the municipal bond 

issuer or credit enhancement provider, an event of taxability on the 

municipal bonds or the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond 

to below investment grade. A downgrade of JPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A.™s short-term rating does not affect the Firm™s obligation under 

the liquidity facility. However, in the event of a downgrade in the 

Firm™s credit ratings, holders of the putable floating-rate certificates 

supported by those liquidity facility commitments might choose to sell 

their instruments, which could increase the likelihood that the liquid-

ity commitments could be drawn. In vehicles in which third-party 

investors own the residual interests, in addition to the termination 

events, the Firm™s exposure as liquidity provider is further limited by 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 251 
the high credit quality of the underlying municipal bonds, the excess 
collateralization in the vehicle or in certain transactions the reim-
bursement agreements with the residual interest holders.  
As remarketing agent, the Firm may hold putable floating-rate 
certificates of the municipal bond vehicles. At December 31, 2010 

and 2009, respectively, the Firm held $248 million and $72 million 

of these certificates on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The largest 

amount held by the Firm at any time during 2010 was $796 mil-

lion, or 6%, of the municipal bond vehicles™ aggregate outstanding 

putable floating-rate certificates. The Firm did not have and contin-

ues not to have any intent to protect any residual interest holder 

from potential losses on any of the municipal bond holdings. 
The long-term credit ratings of the putable floating-rate certificates 
are directly related to the credit ratings of the underlying municipal 

bonds, and to the credit rating of any insurer of the underlying mu-

nicipal bond. A downgrade of a bond insurer would result in a down-

grade of the insured municipal bonds, which would affect the rating 

of the putable floating-rate certificates. This could cause demand for 

these certificates by investors to decline or disappear, as putable 
floating-rate certificate holders typically require an ﬁAA-ﬂ bond 

rating. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, 96% and 98%, respec-

tively, of the municipal bonds held by vehicles for which the Firm 

served as liquidity provider were rated ﬁAA-ﬂ or better, based on 

either the rating of the underlying municipal bond itself or the bond 

rating including any credit enhancement. At December 31, 2010 

and 2009, $3.4 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, of the bonds 

were insured by monoline bond insurers. 
The Firm consolidates municipal bond vehicles if it owns the residual 
interest. The residual interest generally allows the owner to make 

decisions that significantly impact the economic performance of the 

municipal bond vehicle, primarily by directing the sale of the munici-

pal bonds owned by the vehicle. In addition, the residual interest 

owners have the right to receive benefits and bear losses that could 

potentially be significant to the municipal bond vehicle. The Firm does 

not consolidate municipal bond vehicles if it does not own the resid-

ual interests, since the Firm does not have the power to make deci-

sions that significantly impact the economic performance of the 

municipal bond vehicle. 
 The Firm™s exposure to nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs at December 31, 2010 and 2009, including the ratings profile of the VIEs™ assets, 
was as follows. 
 December 31, (in billions) 
Fair value of assets  
held by VIEs Liquidity facilities
(b)
 Excess/(deficit)
(c)
    
Maximum 
   exposure
 Nonconsolidated municipal bond vehicles
(a)
 2010 
 $ 13.7  $ 8.8  $ 4.9 
 $ 8.8
 2009
   13.2
   8.4
   4.8
   8.4
   Ratings profile of VIE assets
(d)
   December 31, 
Investment-grade 
 Noninvestment-grade 
Fair 
 value of  
 Wt. avg.
  expected life 
(in bi
llions, except where 
otherwise noted)
 AAA 
 to AAA- 
AA+ 
 to AA- 
A+ 
 to A- 
BBB 
 to BBB- 
 BB+ 
 and below 
assets held 
 by VIEs 
 of assets
   (years) 
Nonconsolidated municipal bond vehicles
(a)
    
  
  2010 
 $ 1.9 
 $  11.2 
 $ 0.6  $ Š 
  $  Š 
 $ 13.7   15.5
 2009 
  1.6 
  11.4 
  0.2 
  Š 
   Š   13.2   10.1
 (a)
 Excluded $4.6 billion and $2.8 billion, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which were consolidated due to the Firm owning the residual interests. 
(b)
 The Firm may serve as credit enhancement provider to municipal bond vehicles in which it serves as liquidity provider. The Firm provided insurance on underlying 
municipal bonds, in the form of letters of credit, of $10 million at both December 31, 2010 and 2009.  
(c)
 Represents the excess/(deficit) of the fair values of municipal bond assets available to repay the liquidity facilities, if drawn. 
(d)
 The ratings scale is based on the Firm
™s internal risk ratings and is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis. 

 252 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Credit-related note vehicles 
The Firm structures transactions with credit-related note vehicles in 
which the VIE purchases highly rated assets, such as asset-backed 

securities, and enters into a credit derivative contract with the Firm 

to obtain exposure to a referenced credit which the VIE otherwise 

does not hold. The VIE then issues credit-linked notes (ﬁCLNsﬂ) 

with maturities predominantly ranging from one to 10 years in 

order to transfer the risk of the referenced credit to the VIE™s inves-

tors. Clients and investors often prefer using a CLN vehicle since 

the CLNs issued by the VIE generally carry a higher credit rating 

than such notes would if issued directly by JPMorgan Chase. The 

Firm™s exposure to the CLN vehicles is generally limited to its rights 

and obligations under the credit derivative contract with the VIE, as 

the Firm does not provide any additional contractual financial 

support to the VIE. In addition, the Firm has not historically pro-

vided any financial support to the CLN vehicles over and above its 

contractual obligations. Accordingly, the Firm typically does not 

consolidate the CLN vehicles. As a derivative counterparty in a 

credit-related note structure, the Firm has a senior claim on the 

collateral of the VIE and reports such derivatives on its balance 

sheet at fair value. The collateral purchased by such VIEs is largely 

investment-grade, with a significant amount being rated ﬁAAA.ﬂ 

The Firm divides its credit-related note structures broadly into two 

types: static and managed. 
In a static credit-related note structure, the CLNs and associated 
credit derivative contract either reference a single credit (e.g., a 

multi-national corporation), or all or part of a fixed portfolio of 

credits. The Firm generally buys protection from the VIE under the 
credit derivative. In a managed credit-related note structure, the 

CLNs and associated credit derivative generally reference all or part 

of an actively managed portfolio of credits. An agreement exists 

between a portfolio manager and the VIE that gives the portfolio 

manager the ability to substitute each referenced credit in the 

portfolio for an alternative credit. By participating in a structure 

where a portfolio manager has the ability to substitute credits 

within pre-agreed terms, the investors who own the CLNs seek to 

reduce the risk that any single credit in the portfolio will default. 

The Firm does not act as portfolio manager; its involvement with 

the VIE is generally limited to being a derivative counterparty. As a 

net buyer of credit protection, in both static and managed credit-

related note structures, the Firm pays a premium to the VIE in 

return for the receipt of a payment (up to the notional of the de-

rivative) if one or more of the credits within the portfolio defaults, 

or if the losses resulting from the default of reference credits exceed 

specified levels. Since each CLN is established to the specifications 

of the investors, the investors have the power over the activities of 

that VIE that most significantly affect the performance of the CLN. 

Accordingly, the Firm does not generally consolidate these credit-

related note entities. Furthermore, the Firm does not have a vari-

able interest that could potentially be significant. As a derivative 

counterparty, the Firm has a senior claim on the collateral of the 

VIE and reports such derivatives on its balance sheet at fair value. 

Substantially all of the assets purchased by such VIEs are invest-

ment-grade. 
 Exposure to nonconsolidated credit-related note VIEs at December 31, 2010 and 2009, was as follows. 
  Net derivative 
Trading 
Total 
 Par value of 
 collateral  
December 31, 2010
 (in billions) 
receivables 
assets
(b)
 exposure
(c)
  held by VIEs
(d)
 Credit-related notes
(a)
      
Static structure
  $ 
 1.0
  $ 
 Š  $ 
 1.0
  $ 
 9.5
Managed structure
   2.8
   Š   2.8
   10.7
 Total
  $ 
 3.8
  $ 
 Š  $ 
 3.8
  $ 
 20.2
  
 Net derivative 
Trading 
Total 
 Par value of 
 collateral  
December 31, 2009 (in billions) 
receivables 
assets
(b)
 exposure
(c)
  held by VIEs
(d)
 Credit-related notes
(a)
      
Static structure
  $ 
 1.9
  $ 0.7
  $ 
 2.6
  $ 
 10.8
Managed structure
   5.0
   0.6
   5.6
   15.2
 Total
  $  6.9  $  1.3  $  8.2  $  26.0 
(a)
 Excluded collateral with a fair value of $142 million and $855 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which was consolidated, as the Firm, in its role as 
secondary market-maker, held a majority of the issued credit-related notes of certain vehicles. 
(b)
 Trading assets principally comprise notes issued by VIEs, which from time to time are held as part of the termination of a deal or to support limited market-making. 
(c)
 On
Œbalance sheet exposure that includes net derivative receivables and trading assets Œ debt and equity instruments. 
(d)
 The Firm
™s maximum exposure arises through the derivatives executed with the VIEs; the exposure varies over time with changes in the fair value of the derivatives. The 
Firm relies on the collateral held by the VIEs to pay any amounts due under the derivatives; the vehicles are structured at inception so that the par value of the collateral 

is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts due under the derivative contracts. 
Asset swap vehicles 
The Firm structures and executes transactions with asset swap vehi-
cles on behalf of investors. In such transactions, the VIE purchases a 

specific asset or assets and then enters into a derivative with the Firm 

in order to tailor the interest rate or foreign exchange currency risk, or 
both, according to investors™ requirements. Generally, the assets are 

held by the VIE to maturity, and the tenor of the derivatives would 

match the maturity of the assets. Investors typically invest in the notes 

issued by such VIEs in order to obtain exposure to the credit risk of 

the specific assets, as well as exposure to foreign exchange and 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 253 
interest rate risk that is tailored to their specific needs. The derivative 
transaction between the Firm and the VIE may include currency swaps 
to hedge assets held by the VIE denominated in foreign currency into 

the investors™ local currency or interest rate swaps to hedge the 

interest rate risk of assets held by the VIE; to add additional interest 

rate exposure into the VIE in order to increase the return on the 

issued notes; or to convert an interest-bearing asset into a zero-

coupon bond. 
The Firm™s exposure to asset swap vehicles is generally limited to its 
rights and obligations under the interest rate and/or foreign ex-
change derivative contracts. The Firm historically has not provided 

any financial support to the asset swap vehicles over and above its 

contractual obligations. The Firm does not generally consolidate 

these asset swap vehicles, since the Firm does not have the power 

to direct the significant activities of these entities and does not 

have a variable interest that could potentially be significant. As a 

derivative counterparty, the Firm has a senior claim on the collat-

eral of the VIE and reports such derivatives on its balance sheet at 

fair value. Substantially all of the assets purchased by such VIEs are 

investment-grade. 
Exposure to nonconsolidated asset swap VIEs at December 31, 2010 and 2009, was as follows. 
 Net derivative
 Trading
 Total
 Par value of
  December 31, (in billions) 
receivables 
  assets
(b)
    exposure
(c)
 collateral held by VIEs
 (d)
 2010
(a)
  $ 0.3 
 $ Š 
 $ 0.3 
$  
7.6
 2009
(a)
   0.1 
  Š   0.1 
10.2
 (a) Excluded the fair value of collateral of zero and $623 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which was consolidated as the Firm, in its role as secondary 
market-maker, held a majority of the issued notes of certain vehicles. 
(b) Trading assets principally comprise notes issued by VIEs, which from time to time are held as part of the termination of a deal or to support limited market-making. 
(c) On
Œbalance sheet exposure that includes net derivative receivables and trading assets Œ debt and equity instruments. 
(d) The Firm™s maximum exposure arises through the derivatives executed with the VIEs; the exposure varies over time with changes in the fair value of the derivatives. The 
Firm relies upon the collateral held by the VIEs to pay any amounts due under the derivatives; the vehicles are structured at inception so that the par value of the collat-
eral is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts due under the derivative contracts. 
VIEs sponsored by third parties 
Investment in a third-party credit card securitization trust 
The Firm holds two interests in a third-party-sponsored VIE, which 
is a credit card securitization trust that owns credit card receivables 

issued by a national retailer. The Firm is not the primary beneficiary 

of the trust, as the Firm does not have the power to direct the 

activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE™s eco-

nomic performance. The first note is structured so that the principal 

amount can float up to 47% of the principal amount of the receiv-

ables held by the trust, not to exceed $4.2 billion. The Firm ac-

counts for its investment at fair value within AFS securities. At 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, the amortized cost of the note was 

$3.0 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, and the fair value was 

$3.1 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively. The Firm accounts for its 

other interest with the trust, which is not subject to the limits noted 

above, as a loan at amortized cost. This senior loan had an amor-

tized cost and fair value of approximately $1.0 billion at both 

December 31, 2010 and 2009. For more information on AFS securi-

ties and loans, see Notes 12 and 14 on pages 214Œ218 and 220Œ

238, respectively, of this Annual Report. 
VIE used in FRBNY transaction 
In conjunction with the Bear Stearns merger, in June 2008, the 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York (ﬁFRBNYﬂ) took control, 

through an LLC formed for this purpose, of a portfolio of $30.0 

billion in assets, based on the value of the portfolio as of March 14, 

2008. The assets of the LLC were funded by a $28.85 billion term 

loan from the FRBNY and a $1.15 billion subordinated loan from 

JPMorgan Chase. The JPMorgan Chase loan is subordinated to the 
FRBNY loan and will bear the first $1.15 billion of any losses of the 

portfolio. Any remaining assets in the portfolio after repayment of 

the FRBNY loan, repayment of the JPMorgan Chase loan and the 

expense of the LLC will be for the account of the FRBNY. The extent 

to which the FRBNY and JPMorgan Chase loans will be repaid will 

depend on the value of the assets in the portfolio and the liquida-

tion strategy directed by the FRBNY. The Firm does not consolidate 

the LLC, as it does not have the power to direct the activities of the 

VIE that most significantly impact the VIE™s economic performance. 

Prior to January 1, 2010, the Firm did not consolidate the LLC in 

accordance with the accounting treatment under prior consolida-

tion accounting guidance since it did not have the obligation to 

absorb the majority of the vehicle™s expected losses, receive a 

majority of the vehicle™s residual returns, or both. 
Other VIEs sponsored by third parties 
The Firm enters into transactions with VIEs structured by other 

parties. These include, for example, acting as a derivative counter-

party, liquidity provider, investor, underwriter, placement agent, 

trustee or custodian. These transactions are conducted at arm™s 

length, and individual credit decisions are based on the analysis of 

the specific VIE, taking into consideration the quality of the underly-

ing assets. Where the Firm does not have the power to direct the 

activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE™s eco-

nomic performance, or a variable interest that could potentially be 

significant, the Firm records and reports these positions on its 

Consolidated Balance Sheets similarly to the way it would record 

and report positions in respect of any other third-party transaction.

 254 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Consolidated VIE assets and liabilities 
The following table presents information on assets and liabilities related to VIEs that are consolidated by the Firm as of December 31, 2010 
and 2009.  
Assets 
 Liabilities 
December 31, 2010 
(in billions)
 Trading assets 
Œ debt and equity 
instruments Loans Other
(a)
 Total  
assets
(b)
 Beneficial 
interests in 
VIE assets
(c)
 Other
(d)
 Total liabilities
VIE program type
        Firm-sponsored credit card trusts 
 $    Š  $ 67.2  $ 1.3  $ 68.5  $ 44.3  $    Š $   44.3
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits 
   Š   21.1   0.6   21.7  21.6    0.1  21.7
Mortgage securitization entities 
   1.8   2.9   Š   4.7  2.4    1.6  4.0
Other 
   8.0   4.4   1.6   14.0  9.3    0.3  9.6
Total  
  $  9.8  $ 95.6  $ 3.5  $ 108.9  $ 77.6  $    2.0 $   79.6
 Assets 
 Liabilities 
December 31, 2009
 (in billions)
 Trading assets 
Œ debt and equity 
instruments Loans Other
(a)
 Total  
assets
(b)
 Beneficial 
interests in 
VIE assets
(c)
 Other
(d)
 Total liabilities
VIE program type
        Firm-sponsored credit card trusts
(e)  $ 
Š  $ 6.1  $ 0.8  $ 6.9  $ 3.9  $ Š $      3.9
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits 
  
Š   2.2   2.9   5.1   4.8   Š 
4.8
Mortgage securitization entities   
Š   
Š   
Š   
Š   
Š   Š 
ŠOther 
  6.4   4.7   1.3   12.4   6.5   2.2 
8.7
Total  
 $ 6.4  $ 13.0  $ 5.0  $ 24.4  $ 15.2  $ 2.2 $      7.4
(a)
 Included assets classified as cash, resale agreements, derivative receivables, available-for-sale, and other assets within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(b)
 The assets of the consolidated VIEs included in the program types above are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The difference between total assets and total 
liabilities recognized for consolidated VIEs represents the Firm™s interest in the consolidated VIEs for each program type. 
(c)
 The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs are classified in the line item on the Consolidated Balance Sheets titled, ﬁBeneficial 
interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.ﬂ The holders of these beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase.  
Included in beneficial interests in VIE assets are long-term beneficial interests of $52.6 billion and $10.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The  
maturities of the long-term beneficial interests as of December 31, 2010, were as follows: $13.9 billion under one year, $29.0 billion between one and five years, and 
$9.7 billion over five years. 
(d)
 Included liabilities predominately classified as other liabilities as of December 31, 2010, and predominately classified as other liabilities and other borrowed funds as 
of December 31, 2009. 
(e)
 Includes the receivables and related liabilities of the WMMT. For further discussion, see page 246 of this Note. 
Supplemental information on loan securitizations 
For loan securitizations in which the Firm is not required to consoli-
date the trust, the Firm records the transfer of the loan receivable 

to the trust as a sale when the accounting criteria for a sale are 

met. Those criteria are: (1) the transferred financial assets are 

legally isolated from the Firm™s creditors; (2) the transferee or 

beneficial interest holder can pledge or exchange the transferred 

financial assets; and (3) the Firm does not maintain effective control 

over the transferred financial assets (e.g., the Firm cannot repur-

chase the transferred assets before their maturity and it does not 

have the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return the trans-

ferred assets). 
For loan securitizations accounted for as a sale, the Firm recognizes 

a gain or loss based on the difference between the value of pro-

ceeds received (including cash, beneficial interests, or servicing 

assets received) and the carrying value of the assets sold. Gains and 

losses on securitizations are reported in noninterest revenue. The 

value of the proceeds received is determined under the Firm™s 

valuation policies described in Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this 

Annual Report. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 255 
The accounting for retained interests is dependent upon several 
factors, including the form and economic characteristics of the 
retained interest. Interests retained by IB are classified as trading 

assets. Interests retained in other business segments, including RFS 

and Corporate Treasury, may be classified as AFS securities or 

trading assets. See Note 12 on pages 214Œ218 of this Annual 

Report for more information on AFS securities. 
Securitization activity 
The following tables provide information related to the Firm™s 

securitization activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 

2009 and 2008, related to assets held in JPMorgan ChaseŒ 
sponsored securitization entities that were not consolidated by the 

Firm for the periods presented. For the years ended December 31, 

2009 and 2008, there were no residential mortgage loans that 

were securitized, and there were no cash flows from the Firm to the 

SPEs related to recourse or guarantee arrangements. Effective 

January 1, 2010, all of the Firm-sponsored credit card, student loan 

and auto securitization trusts were consolidated as a result of the 

accounting guidance related to VIEs and, accordingly, are not 

included in the securitization activity tables below for the year 

ended December 31, 2010.
 Year ended December 31, 2010
 Residential mortgage 
Commercial 
 (in millions, except rates) 
Prime
(f)(h)
 Subprime Option ARMs 
and other 
 Principal securitized 
 $ 35
  $ Š  $ Š $  
2,237
 Pretax gains 
  Š   Š   Š   Š(g) 
All cash flows during the period
(a)
     Proceeds from new securitizations
(b)
  $  36  $  Š 
 $  Š $  
2,369
 Servicing fees collected
   311
   209
   448
  4 Other cash flows received
   Š   Š   Š  Š Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizations 
  Š   Š   Š  Š Purchases of previously transferred financial assets (or the underlying collateral)
(c)
   211   109 
  1 
 Š Cash flows received on the interests that continue to be held by the Firm
(d)
   288   26 
  5  
143
 Key assumptions used to measure retained interests originated during 
the year (rates per annum) 
     
  Prepayment rate
(e)
   Š 
  100
% 
       CPR
 Weighted-average life (in years) 
  Š    7.1
 Expected credit losses 
  Š    Š% Discount rate 
  Š   7.7
%  
 256 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
  Residential mortgage
  Year ended December 31, 2009 
 (in millions, except rates) 
Credit card Prime
(f)
 Subprime Option ARMs
 Commercial 
 and other Student 
Auto
Principal securitized
  $ 26,538
  $ Š  $ Š  $ Š  $ 500
  $ Š  $ ŠPretax gains
   22  Š 
  Š 
  Š   Š
(g)   Š   
ŠAll cash flows during the period
(a)
     Proceeds from new securitizations
(b)
  $ 26,538 
 $ Š 
 $ Š 
 $ Š  $ 542  $ Š  $ 
ŠServicing fees collected
   1,251
  432
   185
   494
   11
   3   4Other cash flows received
   5,000
  7   4   Š   Š   Š   ŠProceeds from collections reinvested in revolving
 securitizations
 161,428  Š 
  Š 
  Š   Š   Š   
ŠPurchases of previously transferred financial assets 
 (or the underlying collateral)
(c)
  Š  136 
  Š 
  29   Š   Š   
249
Cash flows received on the interests that co
ntinue to 
 be held by the Firm
(d)
  261  475 
  25 
  38   109   7   
4Key assumptions us
ed to measure retained 
 interests originated during the year  
(rates per annum) 
   
   Prepayment rate
(e)  16.7%   
   100%  
    
PPR      CPY  Weighted
-average life (in years)
   0.5
      9.0
  Expected credit losses
 8.9%
      Š%  Discount rate
 16.0
%     10.7%
    Residential mortgage
  Year ended December 31, 2008
 (in millions, except rates) 
Credit card Prime
(f)
 Subprime Option ARMs
 Commercial 
 and other Student Auto
Principal securitized
  $ 21,390
  $ Š  $ Š  $ Š  $ 1,023
  $ Š  $ ŠPretax gains
   151  Š 
  Š 
  Š   Š
(g)   Š   Š
All cash flows during the period
(a)
     Proceeds from new securitizations
(b)
  $ 21,389 
 $ Š 
 $ Š 
 $ Š  $ 989  $ Š  $ Š
Servicing fees collected
   1,162
  279
   146
   129
   11
   4   15
Other cash flows received
   4,9
85
  23
   16
   Š   Š   Š   ŠProceeds from collections reinvested in revolving
 securitizations
 152,399  Š 
  Š 
  Š   Š   Š   Š
Purchases of previously transferred financial assets 
 (or the underlying collateral)
(c)
  Š  217 
  13 
  6   Š   Š   359
Cash f
lows received on the interests that co
ntinue to 
 be held by the Firm
(d)
  117  267 
  23 
  53   455   Š   43
Key assumptions used to measure retained 
 interests originated during the year  

(rates per annum) 
   
   Prepayment rate
(e)  19.1%   
  1.5%  
    
PPR      CPR  Weighted
-average life (in years)
   0.4
      2.1
  Expected credit losses
 4.6%
       
1.5
%  Discount rate
 12.5%
     25.0
%  (a)
 Excludes loan sales for which the Firm did not securitize (including loans sold to U.S. government agencies). 
(b)
 Includes $36 million of proceeds from prime mortgage securitizations received as securities in 2010, $2.4 billion, $542 million, and $989 million from new securitiza-
tions of commercial and other in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $12.8 billion and $5.5 billion from credit card in 2009 and 2008, respectively. These securities 
were primarily classified as level 2 of the fair value measurement hierarchy. 
(c)
 Includes cash paid by the Firm to reacquire assets from the offŒbalance sheet, nonconsolidated entities Œ for example, servicer clean-up calls. 
(d)
 Includes cash flows received on retained interests Œ including, for example, principal repayments and interest payments. 
(e)
 PPR: principal payment rate; CPR: constant prepayment rate; CPY: constant prepayment yield. 
(f)
 Includes Alt-A loans and re-securitization transactions. 
(g)
 The Firm elected the fair value option for loans pending securitization. The carrying value of these loans accounted for at fair value approximated the proceeds received 

from securitization. 
(h)
 There were no retained interests held in the residential mortgage securitization completed in 2010. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 257 
Loans sold to U.S. government agencies and other third-
party sponsored securitization entities 
In addition to the amounts reported in the securitization activity 

tables above, the Firm, in the normal course of business, sells 

originated and purchased mortgage loans, predominantly to U.S. 

government agencies. These loans are sold primarily for the pur-

pose of securitization by U.S. government agencies, which also 

provide credit enhancement of the loans through certain guarantee 

provisions. In connection with these loan sales, the Firm makes 

certain representations and warranties. For additional information 

about the Firm™s loan sale- and securitization-related indemnifica-

tions, see Note 30 on pages 275Œ280 of this Annual Report. 
The Firm generally retains the right to service the mortgage loans in 
accordance with the respective servicing guidelines and standards, 

and records a servicing asset at the time of sale. 
The following table summarizes these loan sale activities. 
Year ended December 31,
  (in millions) 
 2010
 2009
 2008
Carrying value of loans 
sold
(a)(b)
 $ 156,615 
 $ 154,571
 $ 132,111
Proceeds received from loan 
sales as cash 
 3,887 
  1,702
  7,112
Proceed
s received from loan sales 
as securities
(c)
  149,786 
 149,343
  121,947
Total proceeds received 
from loan sales  
$ 153,673 
$ 151,045
 $ 129,059
Gains on loan sales 
   212
    89
  30
(a)
 Predominantly to U.S. government agencies. 
(b)
 MSRs were excluded from the above table. See Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of 
this Annual Report for further information on originated MSRs. 
(c)
 Predominantly includes securities from U.S. government agencies that are 

generally sold shortly after receipt. 
The Firm has the option to repurchase certain loans sold to U.S. 
government agencies (predominantly loans securitized in Ginnie 
Mae pools) if they reach certain delinquency triggers. Once the 

delinquency trigger has been met, regardless of whether the repur-

chase option has been exercised, the Firm recognizes the loan on 

the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Firm also recognizes an offset-

ting liability in accounts payable and other liabilities for any loans 

subject to the repurchase option, but for which the option to repur-

chase has not been exercised. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 

loans repurchased or with the option to repurchase were $13.0 

billion and $10.8 billion, respectively. Additionally, real estate 

owned resulting from repurchases of loans sold to U.S. government 

agencies was $1.9 billion and $579 million as of December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively. Substantially all of these loans and 

real estate continue to be insured or guaranteed by U.S. govern-

ment agencies and, where applicable, reimbursement is proceeding 

normally. 
  
 
 
 
 JPMorgan Chase™s interests in Firm-sponsored
 securitized assets  
The following table summarizes the Firm™s interests in Firm-sponsored non-consolidated securitizations, which are carried at fair value on the 
Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The risk ratings are periodically reassessed as information becomes 

available. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 66% and 76%, respectively, of the Firm™s retained securitization interests in Firm-sponsored 

securitizations were risk-rated ﬁAﬂ or better. 
 Ratings profile of interests held
(b)(
c)(
d) 2010
  2009 
December 31, (in billions)
 Investment
- grade 
Noninvestment
- grade 
Retained
 interests 
Investment
- grade 
Noninvestment
- grade 
Retained
interests
(e)
 Asset types
        
Residential mortgage: 
       Prime
(a)
  $ 0.2  $ 0.5  $ 0.7 
 $ 0.7 
 $ 0.4  $ 1.1 
Subprime
   Š   Š   Š   Š   Š   Š 
Option ARMs 
   Š   Š   Š   0.1   Š   0.1 
Commercial and other
   2.6
   0.3
   2.9
   2.2   0.2   2.4 
Total 
  $ 2.8
  $ 0.8
  $ 3.6
  $ 3.0  $ 0.6  $ 3.6 
(a)
 Includes retained interests in Alt-A loans and re-securitization transactions.  
(b)
 The ratings scale is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis. 
(c)
 Includes $315 million and $139 million of investments acquired in the secondary market, but predominantly held for investment purposes, as of December 31, 2010 
and 2009, respectively. Of this amount, $276 million and $108 million is classified as investment-grade as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(d)
 Excludes senior and subordinated securities of $200 million and $875 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which the Firm purchased in connection 
with IB
™s secondary market-making activities. 
(e)
 Excludes $49 million of retained interests in student loans at December 31, 2009. 

 258 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, of certain of the 
Firm™s retained interests in nonconsolidated Firm-sponsored securitizations, other than MSRs, that are valued using modeling techniques. The 
table below also outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in assumptions used to determine 
fair value. For a discussion of MSRs, see Note 17 on pages 260Œ263 of this Annual Report. 
 Residential mortgage
   Dec
ember 31, 2010
  
(in millions, except rates and where otherwise noted)
 Prime
(b)
 Subprime Option ARMs 
Commercial 
   and other
(g)
  JPMorgan Chase interests in securitized assets
(a)(c)
  $ 708 
 $ 14 
 $ 29  $ 2,906
  Weighted
-average life (in years)
  5.5
  6.6
   7.7
  3.3
  Weighted-average constant prepayment rate
(d)
  7.9%  5.7%  8.4%    Š
 %     
 CPR
  CPR
    
 CPR
    
CPR
  Impact of 10% adverse change 
 $ (15)
  $ Š  $ Š  $ Š  Impact of 20% adverse change
 (27
) (1)
 (1) Š  Weighted-average loss assumption 
 5.2
%  16.2
%  30.0
% 2.1
 % Impact of 10% adverse change
  $ (12)
  $ (1)
  $ Š  $ (76
 ) Impact of 20% adverse change
 (21)
 (2)
 (1)
 (151
 ) Weighted-average discount rate 
 11.6%  10.7%  6.3% 16.4
 % Impact of 10% adverse change
  $ (26)
  $  Š  $ (1)  $  (69
 ) Impact of 20% adverse change
 (47
) (1)
 (2) (134
 )  December 31, 2009
  Residential mortgage
     (in millions, except rates and where 
otherwise noted)
 Credit card
(e)
 Prime
(b)
 Subprime Option ARMs 
Commercial 
   and other
(g)
 Student  Auto
  JPMorgan Chase interests
 in 
securitized assets
(c)
  $ 4,016 
 $ 1,143 
 $ 27 
 $ 113 
 $  2,361 
 $ 51  $ 9
 Weighted
-average life (in years)
  0.6
  8.3
  4.3
  5.1
  3.5
  8.1
  0.6
 Weighted
-average constant 
prepayment rate
(d)
    14.3%    4.9%    21.8%  15.7%   
Š%    5.0%    1.4
%    PPR 
  CPR   CPR CPR 
   CPR   CPR    ABS
 Impact of 10% adverse change 
 $ (1) 
 $ (15) 
 $ (2) 
 $ 
Š  $       
Š  $ (1)  $ Š
 Impact of 20% adverse change
 (2)
 (31)
 (3)
 (1)
  Š (2)
 (1
) Weighted-average loss assumption
    6.8%    3.2% 
   2.7% 
 0.7% 
 1.4% 
   Š%
(f)
 0.8
% Impact of 10% adverse change
  $ (1) 
 $ (15) 
 $ (4) 
 $ 
Š  $      (41) 
 $ 
Š  $ Š
 Impact of 20% adverse change
 (3)
 (29)
 (7)
 Š (100)
 Š Š Weighted-average discount rate    12.0%    11.4%  23.2%    5.4%   12.5%     9.0% 2.8
% Impact of 10% adv
erse change
  $  (10)
  $  (41)
  $  (2)
  $  (1)
  $ 
  (72)
  $  (2)
  $  Š Impact of 20% adverse change
 (20)
 (82)
 (4)
 (3)
 (139)
 (4)
 Š (a)
 Effective January 1, 2010, all of the Firm-sponsored credit card, student loan and auto securitization trusts were consolidated as a result of the accounting guidance 
related to VIEs and, accordingly, are not included in the table above for the year ended December 31, 2010.   
(b)
 Includes retained interests in Alt-A and re-securitization transactions.  
(c)
 Includes certain investments acquired in the secondary market but predominantly held for investment purposes. 
(d)
 PPR: principal payment rate; ABS: absolute prepayment speed; CPR: constant prepayment rate. 
(e)
 Excludes the Firm™s retained senior and subordinated AFS securities in its credit card securitization trusts, which are discussed on pages 245Œ246 of this Note. 
(f)
 Expected losses for student loans securitizations are minimal and are incorporated into other assumptions. 
(g)
 The anticipated credit losses, including expected static pool losses, are immaterial for the Firm™s retained interests on commercial and other securitizations that had 

occurred during 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical. Changes in fair value based on a 10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally 
cannot be extrapolated easily, because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, in 
the table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without changing any other assumption. 
In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might counteract or magnify the sensitivities. The above sensitivities 

also do not reflect risk management practices the Firm may undertake to mitigate such risks. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
 259 
Loan delinquencies and net charge-offs  
The table below includes information about delinquencies, net charge-offs and components of offŒbalance sheet securitized financial assets as 
of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
As of or for the year ended   Credit exposure 
   90 days past due 
   and still accruing
   Nonaccrual loans 
      Net loan charge-offs
(d)
 December 31, (in millions)
  2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009
  2010
  2009
  2010
  2009
 Securitized loans
(a)
    
     Residential mort
gage:
         Prime mortgage
(b)
  $ 143,764
  $ 171,547 
 $ Š 
 $ Š
  $ 33,093
  $ 33,838
  $ 6,257
  $    9,333
Subprime mortgage 
  40,
721
   47,261 
  Š   Š
   15,456
   19,505
   3,
598
   7,123
Option ARMs 
  35,
786
   41,983 
  Š   Š
   10,
788
   10,973
   2,
30
5   2,287
Commercial and other 
  106,245
   24,799 
  Š   Š
   5,
791
   1,244
   618
  15
Credit card 
  NA
   84,626 
  NA
   2,385
   NA
   Š
   NA
  6,443
Student 
  NA
   1,008 
  NA
   64
   NA
   Š
   NA
  1
Automobile 
  NA
   218 
  NA
   Š
   NA
   1
   NA
 4Total loans securitized
(c)
  $ 326,516
  $ 371,442 
 $ Š 
 $ 2,449
  $ 65,128
  $ 65,561
  $ 12,778
  $  25,206
(a)
 Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs, including credit card securitization trusts, were $391.1 billion and $545.2 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, 
respectively. The $326.5 billion and $371.4 billion of loans securitized at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, excludes: $56.0 billion and $145.0 billion of  
securitized loans in which the Firm has no continuing involvement, zero and $16.7 billion of seller™s interests in credit card master trusts, zero and $8.3 billion of cash 
amounts on deposit and escrow accounts, and $8.6 billion and $3.8 billion of loan securitizations consolidated on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets at Decem-

ber 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(b)
 Includes Alt-A loans.  
(c)
  Includes securitized loans that were previously recorded at fair value and classified as trading assets. 
(d)
 Net charge-offs represent losses realized upon liquidation of the assets held by offŒbalance sheet securitization entities. 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
260
Note 17 Œ Goodwill and other intangible assets 
 Goodwill and other intangible assets consist of the f
ollowing.  
December 31, (in millions)  
20
10
20092008
Goodwill 
 $ 48,854
$ 48,357$ 48,027
Mortgage servicing rights 
 13,649
15,5319,403
Othe
r intang
ible assets
 Purchased credit card relationships  
$   
   
897
$   1,246$   1,649
Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles 
 593
691743
Core deposit intangibles  
879
1,2071,597
Other intangibles  
1,670
1,4771,592
Total other intangible
 assets 
 $   
4,039
$   4,621$   5,581
Goodwill  
Goodwill is recorded upon completion of a business combination as the 

difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net 

assets acquired. Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is not 

amortized but is tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of each 

fiscal year, or more often if events or circumstances, such as adverse 

changes in the business climate, indicate there may be impairment. 
The goodwill associated with each business combination is allo-
cated to the related reporting units, which are determined based on 

how the Firm™s businesses are managed and how they are reviewed 

by the Firm™s Operating Committee. The following table presents 

goodwill attributed to the business segments. 
December 31, (in millions)  
  2010
 2009 2008
Investment Bank 
   
$ 5,278
  $   4,959  $   4,765
Retail Financial Services  
  16,813
   16,831 16,840
Card Services  
  14,205
   14,134 13,977
Commercial Banking  
  2,866
   2,868 2,870
Treasury & Securities Services  
  1,680
   1,667 1,633
Asset Management  
  7,635
   7,521 7,565
Corporate/Private Equity 
  377
   377 377
Total goodwill 
  $  48,854
  $ 48,357 $ 48,027
The following table presents changes in the carrying amount of goodwill. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2010
 2009 2008
 Beginning balance at January 1,
(a)
: 
 $ 48,357 
 $ 48,027  $ 45,270
 Changes from: 
  Business combinations 
  556
   271 2,481
 Dispositions 
  (19)
   Š (38
 ) 
Other
(b)
   (40)
   59 314
 Balance at December 31,
(a)
  $ 48,854 
 $ 48,357  $ 48,027
 (a)
 Reflects gross goodwill balances as the Firm has not recognized any impairment 
losses to date. 
(b) Includes foreign currency translation adjustments and other tax-related adjustments.
 The increase in goodwill during 2010 was largely due to the acquisi-
tion of the RBS Sempra Commodities business in IB, and the pur-
chase of a majority interest in Gávea Investimentos, a leading 

alternative asset management company in Brazil, by AM. The 

increase in goodwill during 2009 was primarily due to final purchase 

accounting adjustments related to the Bear Stearns merger and the 

acquisition of a commodities business (each primarily allocated to IB), 

and foreign currency translation adjustments related to the Firm™s 

credit card business, partially offset by accounting adjustments asso-

ciated with the Bear Stearns and Bank One mergers. The increase in 

goodwill during 2008 was primarily due to the dissolution of the 

Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture (allocated to Card Ser-

vices), the merger with Bear Stearns, the purchase of an additional 

equity interest in Highbridge and tax-related purchase accounting 
adjustments associated with the Bank One merger (which were 

primarily attributed to IB). 
Impairment Testing  
Goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2010 or 2009, nor 

was any goodwill written off due to impairment during 2010, 2009 

or 2008. 
The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. In the first 
step, the current fair value of each reporting unit is compared with its 

carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value is in excess of the 

carrying value (including goodwill), then the reporting unit™s goodwill 

is considered not to be impaired. If the fair value is less than the 

carrying value (including goodwill), then a second step is performed. 

In the second step, the implied current fair value of the reporting 

unit™s goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of the 

reporting unit (as determined in step one) to the fair value of the net 

assets of the reporting unit, as if the reporting unit were being ac-

quired in a business combination. The resulting implied current fair 

value of goodwill is then compared with the carrying value of the 

reporting unit™s goodwill. If the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds 

its implied current fair value, then an impairment charge is recognized 

for the excess. If the carrying value of goodwill is less than its implied 

current fair value, then no goodwill impairment is recognized. 
The primary method the Firm uses to estimate the fair value of its 
reporting units is the income approach. The models project cash flows 

for the forecast period and use the perpetuity growth method to 

calculate terminal values. These cash flows and terminal values are 

then discounted using an appropriate discount rate. Projections of 

cash flows are based on the reporting units™ earnings forecasts, which 

include the estimated effects of regulatory and legislative changes 

(including, but not limited to the Dodd-Frank Act, the CARD Act, and 

limitations on non-sufficient funds and overdraft fees). These fore-

casts are also reviewed with the Operating Committee of the Firm. 

The Firm™s cost of equity is determined using the Capital Asset Pricing 

Model, which is consistent with methodologies and assumptions the 

Firm uses when advising clients in third party transactions. The dis-

count rate used for each reporting unit represents an estimate of the 

cost of equity capital for that reporting unit and is determined based 

on the Firm™s overall cost of equity, as adjusted for the risk character-

istics specific to each reporting unit, (for example, for higher levels of 

risk or uncertainty associated with the business or management™s 

forecasts and assumptions). To assess the reasonableness of the 

discount rates used for each reporting unit management compares 

the discount rate to the estimated cost of equity for publicly traded 

institutions with similar businesses and risk characteristics. In addi-

tion, the weighted average cost of equity (aggregating the various 

reporting units) is compared with the Firms™ overall cost of equity to 

ensure reasonableness.  
The valuations derived from the discounted cash flow models are 
then compared with market-based trading and transaction multi-

ples for relevant competitors. Precise conclusions generally can not 

be drawn from these comparisons due to the differences that 

naturally exist between the Firm's businesses and competitor insti-
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
261
tutions. However, trading and transaction comparables are used as 
general indicators to assess the general reasonableness of the 

estimated fair values. Management also takes into consideration a 

comparison between the aggregate fair value of the Firm™s report-

ing units and JPMorgan Chase™s market capitalization. In evaluat-

ing this comparison, management considers several factors, 

including (a) a control premium that would exist in a market trans-

action, (b) factors related to the level of execution risk that would 

exist at the firm-wide level that do not exist at the reporting unit 

level and (c) short-term market volatility and other factors that do 

not directly affect the value of individual reporting units. 
While no impairment of goodwill was recognized during 2010, 
the Firm™s consumer lending businesses in RFS and CS remain at 

elevated risk of goodwill impairment due to their exposure to U.S. 

consumer credit risk and the effects of regulatory and legislative 

changes. The valuation of these businesses is particularly dependent 

upon economic conditions (including new unemployment claims and 

home prices), and regulatory and legislative changes that may affect 

consumer credit card use. The assumptions used in the discounted 

cash flow model were determined using management™s best esti-

mates. The cost of equity reflected the related risk and uncertainty, 

and was evaluated in comparison to relevant market peers. Deteriora-

tion in these assumptions could cause the estimated fair values of 

these reporting units and their associated goodwill to decline, which 

may result in a material impairment charge to earnings in a future 

period related to some portion of the associated goodwill. 
Mortgage servicing rights  
Mortgage servicing rights represent the fair value of future cash 

flows for performing specified mortgage servicing activities (pre-

dominantly with respect to residential mortgage) for others. MSRs 

are either purchased from third parties or retained upon sale or 

securitization of mortgage loans. Servicing activities include collect-

ing principal, interest, and escrow payments from borrowers; mak-

ing tax and insurance payments on behalf of borrowers; monitoring 

delinquencies and executing foreclosure proceedings; and account-

ing for and remitting principal and interest payments to the inves-

tors of the mortgage-backed securities.  
JPMorgan Chase made the determination to treat its MSRs as one 
class of servicing assets based on the availability of market inputs 

used to measure its MSR asset at fair value and its treatment of 

MSRs as one aggregate pool for risk management purposes. As 

permitted by U.S. GAAP, the Firm elected to account for this one 

class of servicing assets at fair value. The Firm estimates the fair 

value of MSRs using an option-adjusted spread model (ﬁOASﬂ), 

which projects MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios 

in conjunction with the Firm™s prepayment model, and then dis-

counts these cash flows at risk-adjusted rates. The model considers 

portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, 

prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other 

ancillary revenue and costs to service, and other economic factors. 

The Firm reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs 

and assumptions used in the OAS model to reflect market condi-

tions and assumptions that a market participant would consider in 
valuing the MSR asset. During 2010 and 2009, the Firm continued 

to refine its proprietary prepayment model based on a number of 

market-related factors, including a downward trend in home prices, 

general tightening of credit underwriting standards and the associ-

ated impact on refinancing activity. The Firm compares fair value 

estimates and assumptions to observable market data where avail-

able, and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience.  
The fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates, 
including their effect on prepayment speeds. JPMorgan Chase uses 

combinations of derivatives and securities to manage changes in 

the fair value of MSRs. The intent is to offset any changes in the fair 

value of MSRs with changes in the fair value of the related risk 

management instruments. MSRs decrease in value when interest 

rates decline. Conversely, securities (such as mortgage-backed 

securities), principal-only certificates and certain derivatives (when 

the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments) increase in value 

when interest rates decline.  
The following table summarizes MSR activity for the years ended 
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except where  
 otherwise noted) 
2010
 2009 2008 
Fair value at beginning of period 
$15,5
31
 $   9,403 $  8,632 
MSR activity 
   
Originations of MSRs 
3,153
 3,615 3,061 
Purchase of MSRs 
26
 2 6,755
(f)
 Disposition of MSRs 
(407
) (10) Š
 Total net additions
 2,772
 3,607 9,816 
Change in valuation due to inputs 
and assumptions
(a)
 (2,268) 
5,807 (6,933) 
Other changes in fair value
(b)
 (2,386) 
(3,286) (2,112) 
Total change in fair value of 
    MSRs
(c)
 (4,654) 
2,521 (9,045) 
Fair value at December 31
(d)
 $13,649
 $ 15,531
 $  9,403
 Change in unrealized gains/ (loss
es) 
included in income related to 
MSRs held at December 31 
$ (2,268) 
$   5,807 $ (6,933) 
Contractual service fees, late fees 
and other ancillary fees included 
 in income 
$  4,484 
$   4,818 $  3,353 
Third
-party mortgage loans se
rviced 
at December 31 (in billions) 
$     976
 $   1,091 $  1,185 
Servicer advances, net at D
ecember 
31 (in billions)
(e)
 $      9.9
 $  7.7
  $      5.2 
(a) Represents MSR asset fair value adjustments due to changes in inputs, such as 
interest rates and volatility, as well as updates to assumptions used in the valuation 
model. ﬁTotal realized/unrealized gains/(losses)ﬂ columns in the Changes in level 3 

recurring fair value measurements tables in Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this An-

nual Report include these amounts. 
(b) Includes changes in MSR value due to modeled servicing portfolio runoff (or time 
decay). ﬁPurchases, issuances, settlements, netﬂ columns in the Changes in level 3 

recurring fair value measurements tables in Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this An-
nual Report include these amounts. 
(c) Includes changes related to commercial real estate of $(1) million, $(4) million and 
$(4) million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(d) Includes $40 million, $41 million and $55 million related to commercial real estate 
at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(e) Represents amounts the Firm pays as the servicer (e.g., scheduled principal and 
interest to a trust, taxes and insurance), which will generally be reimbursed within 
a short period of time after the advance from future cash flows from the trust or the 

underlying loans. The Firm™s credit risk associated with these advances is minimal 

because reimbursement of the advances is senior to all cash payments to investors. 

In addition, the Firm maintains the right to stop payment if the collateral is insuffi-

cient to cover the advance. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
262
(f)
 Includes MSRs acquired as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction (of which 
$59 million related to commercial real estate) and the Bear Stearns merger. For 
further discussion, see Note 2 on pages 166Œ170 of this Annual Report.
 The following table presents the components of mortgage fees and 
related income (including the impact of MSR risk management 
activities) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
Year
 ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
2010
 2009 2008 
RFS mortgage fees and related income
    
Net production revenue: 
   
Production revenue 
$  
3,440
 $ 2,115 $1,150 
Repurchase losses 
(2,912
) (1,612) (252) 
Net p
roduction revenue
   
   528
     503    898 
Net mortgage servicing rev
enue
    
  Operating revenue: 
   Loan servicing revenue 
4,575
 4,942 3,258 
Other changes in MSR a
sset    
    fair value
(a)
 (2,384) 
(3,279) (2,052) 
  
Total operating revenue
 2,191
 1,663 1,206 
  Risk management: 
   
Changes in MSR asset fair 
    value due to inputs or  
   assumptions in model
(b)
 (2,268
) 
5,804
 (6,849) 
Derivative valuation adjus
t-    ments and other 
3,404 
(4,176) 8,366 
   
Total risk 
management
 1,136
 1,628 1,517 
Total RFS net mortgage 
servicing revenue 
3,327
 3,291
 2,723
 All other
(c)
 15 
(116) (154) 
Mortgage fees and related 
income 
$  3,870
 $ 3,678
 $ 3,467
 (a)
 Includes changes in the MSR value due to modeled servicing portfolio runoff 
(or time decay). ﬁPurchases, issuances, settlements, netﬂ columns in the 
Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements tables in Note 3 on 
pages 170Œ187 of this Annual Report include these amounts. 
(b)
 Represents MSR asset fair value adjustments due to changes in inputs, such 
as interest rates and volatility, as well as updates to assumptions used in the 
valuation model. ﬁTotal realized/unrealized gains/(losses)ﬂ columns in the 
Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements tables in Note 3 on 

pages 170Œ187 of this Annual Report include these amounts. 
(c)
 Primarily represents risk management activities performed by the Chief 

Investment Office (ﬁCIOﬂ) in the Corporate sector. 
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to 
determine the fair value of the Firm™s MSRs at December 31, 2010 
and 2009; and it outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to 

immediate adverse changes in those assumptions, as defined 

below.  
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except rates) 
       
2010
  2009 
Weighted
-average prepayment speed 
 assumption (CPR) 
  
11.29
% 11.37%
 Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change 
$   
(809
) $   (896) 
Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change 
  (1,568
) (1,731) 
Weighted-average option adjusted spread  
3.94
% 4.63%
 Impact on fair value of 100 basis points
 adverse change 
$   
(578
) 
$   (641) 
Impact on fair value of 200 basis points 
 adverse change 
(1,109
) 
(1,232) 
CPR: Constant prepayment rate. 
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and 
should be used with caution. Changes in fair value based on variation 
in assumptions generally cannot be easily extrapolated, because the 

relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair 

value may not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect that a change in 

a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated 

without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one 

factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or 

counteract the sensitivities. 

  
Other intangible assets  

Other intangible assets are recorded at their fair value upon completion of a business combination or certain other transactions, and generally 

represent the value of customer relationships or arrangements. Subsequently, the Firm™s intangible assets with finite lives, including core deposit 

intangibles, purchased credit card relationships, and other intangible assets, are amortized over their useful lives in a manner that best reflects the eco-
nomic benefits of the intangible asset. The decrease in other intangible assets during 2010 was predominantly due to amortization, partially offset by an 
increase resulting from the aforementioned Gávea Investimentos transaction. 
The components of credit card relationships, core deposits and other intangible assets were as follows. 
  2010 
 2009 
 Gross Accumulated 
Net
 carrying Gross Accumulated 
  Net
       carrying
December 31, (in millions) 
amount amortization value amount amortization 
    value
 Purchased credit card relationships 
 $  5,789
  $  4,892
  $  897
  $ 5,783   $ 4,537   $ 1,246
 Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles 
  907
   314
   593
   894    203   691
 Core deposit intangibles 
  4,280
   3,401
 879
   4,280   3,073 1,207
 Other intangibles 
  2,515
   845
 1,670
   2,200   723 1,477
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
263
Amortization expense
  
Intangible assets of approximately $600 million, consisting primarily of asset management advisory contracts, were determined to have an indefinite life 
and are not amortized.  
The following table presents amortization expense related to credit card relationships, core deposits and all other intangible assets. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2010 
2009 
2008
Purchased credit card relationships 
 $ 355
   $    421   $    625
All other intangibles: 
   
Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles 
111
 94   33
Core deposit intangibles 
328
 390   469
Other intangibles 
142
 145   136
Total amortization expense
  $  936
   $ 1,050   $ 1,263
 Future amortization expense 

The following table presents estimated future amortization expense related to credit card relationships, core deposits and all other intangible 

assets at December 31, 2010. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
 Purchased credit
  card relationships 
Other credit 
 card-related intangibles
 Core deposit 
intangibles 
All other 
 intangible assets
 Total
2011
  $ 294
  $ 103
  $ 284
  $ 116
  $ 797
 2012
 254
 106
 240
 111
 711
 2013
 213
 103
 195
 108
 619
 2014
 109
 102
 10
0 94
 40
5 201
5 23
 95
 25
 76
 219
  Impairment testing 
The Firm™s intangible assets are tested for impairment if events or 

changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired, 

and, for intangible assets with indefinite lives, on an annual basis. 
The impairment test for a finite-lived intangible asset compares the 
undiscounted cash flows associated with the use or disposition of 

the intangible asset to its carrying value. If the sum of the undis-

counted cash flows exceeds its carrying value, then no impairment 

charge is recorded. If the sum of the undiscounted cash flows is less 

than its carrying value, then an impairment charge is recognized to 

the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. 
The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets compares 
the fair value of the intangible asset to its carrying amount. If the 

carrying value exceeds the fair value, then an impairment charge is 

recognized for the difference.  
Note 18 Œ Premises and equipment 
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvem
ents, are 
carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. 
JPMorgan Chase computes depreciation using the straight-line 

method over the estimated useful life of an asset. For leasehold 

improvements, the Firm uses the straight-line method computed 

over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the 

estimated useful life of the leased asset. JPMorgan Chase has 

recorded immaterial asset retirement obligations related to asbes-

tos remediation in those cases where it has sufficient information to 

estimate the obligations™ fair value. 
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the 
acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the 

software is ready for its intended use, these costs are amortized on 
a straight-line basis over the software™s expected useful life and 

reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis.  
Note 19 Œ Deposits
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, noninterest-bearing and interest-
bearing deposits were as follows. 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2010
 2009
U.S. offices 
  Noninterest-bearing  
 $   228,555 
 $  204,003
Interest-bearing:  
   
 Demand
(a)
  
  33,368 
 15,964
Savings
(b)
   334,632 
 297,949
Time (included $2,733 and $1,463 
at fair value at December 31, 
2010 and 2009, respectively)
(c)
  
  87,237 
 125,191
Total interest-bearing deposits 
   455,237 
 439,104
Total deposits in U.S. offices    683,792 
 643,107
Non-U.S. offices 
 Noninterest-bearing 
  10,917 
 8,082
Interest-bearing:  
   
 Demand  
  174,417 
 186,885
Savings 
  607 
 661
Time (included $1,636 and $2,992 
at fair value at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively)
(c)
  
  60,636 
 99,632
Total interest-bearing deposits   235,660 
 287,178
Total deposits in non-U.S. offices 
   246,577 
 295,260
Total deposits
  
 $   930,369 
 $  938,367
(a)
 2010 and 2009 includes Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (
ﬁNOW
ﬂ)  
accounts. 2010 includes certain trust accounts. 
(b)
 Includes Money Market Deposit Accounts (
ﬁMMDAs
ﬂ). 
(c)
 See Note 4 on pages 187Œ189 of this Annual Report for further information 
on structured notes classified as deposits for which the fair value option has 
been elected. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
264
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, time deposits in denominations 
of $100,000 or more were as follows.
 December 31, (in millions) 
20
10
2009
U.S.  
$   
59,653
$   90,552
Non-U.S.  
44,544
77,887
Total 
 $ 
104,197
$ 168,439
 
At December 31, 2010, the maturities of interest-bearing time 

deposits were as follows.
 December 31, 2010
  (in millions) 
 U.S. Non-U.S. 
Total
 2011
  $ 71,930
  $ 60,043
  $ 131,973
 2012
   7,382
   287
   7,669
 2013
   4,281
   153
   4,434
 2014
   1,432
   22
   1,454
 2015
   2,074
   Š   2,074
 After 5 years
   138
   131
   269
 Total 
  $ 87,237  $ 60,636  $ 147,873
  
On November 21, 2008, the FDIC released final rules on the FDIC 

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the ﬁTLG Programﬂ). One 

component of this program, the Transaction Account Guarantee 

Program (the ﬁTAG Programﬂ), provided unlimited deposit insur-

ance through December 31, 2009, on certain noninterest-bearing 

transaction accounts at FDIC-insured participating institutions. The 

Firm elected to participate in the TLG Program and, as a result, was 

required to pay additional insurance premiums to the FDIC in an 

amount equal to an annualized 10 basis points on balances in 

noninterest-bearing transaction accounts that exceeded the 

$250,000 FDIC deposit insurance limits. The expiration date of the 

program was extended to December 31, 2010, to provide contin-

ued support to those institutions most affected by the financial 

crisis and to enable the program to be phased-out in an orderly 

manner. Beginning January 1, 2010, the Firm no longer partici-

pated in the TAG Program. As a result, funds held in noninterest-

bearing transaction accounts after December 31, 2009, were no 
longer guaranteed in full. Instead, they are insured up to $250,000 

under the FDIC™s general deposit rules. 
Note 20 Œ Other borrowed funds
  The following table details the components of other b
orrowed funds. 
December 31, (in millions) 
 20
10
 2009
 Advances from Federal Home Loan Banks
(a)
  $ 25,234
 $  27,847
 Other 
 32,075
 27,893
 Total
(b)(c)
  
 $ 57,309
 $  55,740
 (a) Advances from the FHLBs of $11.4 billion, $1.5 billion, $7.3 billion, $1.0 
billion and $3.0 billion matures in each of the 12-month periods ending De-
cember 31, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015, respectively, and $928 mil-

lion matures after December 31, 2015.  
(b) Includes other borrowed funds of $9.9 billion and $5.6 billion accounted for 
at fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 3 on 

pages 170Œ187 of this Annual Report for further information. 
(c) Includes other borrowed funds of $37.8 billion and $30.4 billion secured by 
assets totaling $95.3 billion and $144.1 billion at December 31, 2010 and 

2009, respectively.  
As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase had no 
significant lines of credit for general corporate purposes. 
Note 21 Œ Accounts payable and other  
liabilities
  The following table details the components of account
s payable 
and other liabilities. 
December 31, (in millions) 
   20
10
  2009
 Brokerage payables
(a)
  $ 95,359
  $ 
92,848
Accounts pa
yable
 and other 
 liabilities
(b)
    74,971
   
69,848
Total 
  $ 170,330
  $ 
162,696
(a)
 Includes payables to customers, brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, 
and securities fails. 
(b)
 Includes $236 million and $357 million accounted for at fair value at Decem-

ber 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
265
Note 22 Œ Long-term debt 
JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in v
arious currencies, although predominantly U.S. dollars, with both fixed and variable 
interest rates. Included in senior and subordinated debt below are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments, which the Firm has 
elected to measure at fair value. These hybrid securities are classified in the line item of the host contract on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

Changes in fair value are recorded in principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The following table is a sum-

mary of long-term debt carrying values (including unamortized original issue discount, valuation adjustments and fair value adjustments, where 

applicable) by remaining contractual maturity as of December 31, 2010.
   By remaining maturity at
  20
10
  December 31, 20
10
  Under
  After
  2009
 (in millions, except rates) 
 1 year 1Œ5 years 5 years 
Total
 Total 
Parent company
        Senior debt: 
Fixed rate
(a) $  20,384
 $  47,031
 $  31,372
 $  98,787
 $  93,729 
 Variable rate
(b)    15,648
    37,119
    6,260
    59,027
    73,335 
 Interest rates
(c)    0.36Œ6.00%
    0.31Œ7.00%
    0.24Œ7.25%
    0.24Œ7.25%
     0.22Œ7.50%
         Subordinated debt: 
Fixed rate 
$  2,865
 $  9,649
 $  9,486
 $  22,000
 $  24,851 
 Variable rate 
   Š    1,987
    9    1,996
    1,838 
 Interest rates
(c)    5.90Œ6.75%
     1.37Œ6.63%
    2.16Œ8.53%
    1.37Œ8.53%
   1.14Œ10.00%
  Subtotal
 $  38,897
 $  95,786
 $  47,127
 $  181,
810
 $  193,753 
Subsidiaries 
        Senior debt: 
Fixed rate 
$  546
 $  1,782
 $  2,900
 $  5,228
 $  3,310 
 Variable rate 
   6,435
    17,199
    6,911
    30,545
    39,835 
 Interest rates
(c)   0.26Œ2.00%
  0.21Œ3.75%
  0.32Œ14.21%
  0.21Œ14.21%
  0.16Œ14.21%
 Subordinated debt: 
Fixed rate 
$  Š $  Š $  8,605
 $  8,605
 $  8,655 
 Variable rate 
   Š    Š    1,150
    1,150
    1,150 
 Interest rates
(c)   Š%
  Š%
    0.63Œ8.25%
    0.63Œ8.25%
     0.58Œ8.25%
  Subtotal
 $  6,981
 $  18,981
 $  19,566
 $  45,528
 $  52,950 
Junior subordinated debt:
 Fixed rate 
$  Š $  Š $  15,249
 $  15,249
 $  16,349 
 Variable rate 
   Š    Š    5,082
    5,082
    3,266 
 Interest rates
(c)   Š%
  Š%
    0.79Œ8.75%
    0.79Œ8.75%
     0.78Œ8.75%
  Subtotal
 $  Š $  Š $  20,331
 $  20,331
 $    19,615 
Total long-term debt
(d)(e)(f)
  $  45,878
 $  114,767
 $  87,024
 $  247,669
(h)(i)
 $  266,318
 Long
-term beneficial inte
rests:
         Fixed rate 
$  3,095
 $  4,328
 $  2,
372
 $  9,7
95
 $  1,034 
 Variable rate 
   10,798
    24,691
    7,
270
    42,759
    9,404 
 Interest rates 
   
0.28
Œ7.00
%  0.25
Œ11.0
0%    
0.
05
Œ7.47
%   0.
05
Œ11.0
0%     0.25Œ7.13%
 Total long-term  beneficial interests
(g)
  $  13,893
 $  29,019
 $  9,642
 $  52,554
 $  10,438 
(a)
 Included $18.5 billion and $21.6 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLG Program. 
(b)
 Included $17.9 billion and $19.3 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLG Program. 
(c)
 The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year-end, including non-U.S. dollar fixed- and variable-rate issuances, which excludes the effects 
of the associated derivative instruments used in hedge accounting relationships, if applicable. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the Firm™s exposure to 

the contractual interest rates disclosed in the table above. Including the effects of the hedge accounting derivatives, the range of modified rates in effect at December 
31, 2010, for total long-term debt was (0.12)% to 14.21%, versus the contractual range of 0.21% to 14.21% presented in the table above. The interest rate ranges 
shown exclude structured notes accounted for at fair value. 
(d)
 Included long-term debt of $8.3 billion and $8.1 billion secured by assets totaling $11.7 billion and $11.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Ex-
cludes amounts related to hybrid instruments. 
(e)
 Included $38.8 billion and $49.0 billion of outstanding structured notes accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  
(f)
 Included $879 million and $3.4 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The aggregate principal amount of these notes 

at their respective maturities was $2.7 billion and $6.6 billion, respectively. 
(g)
 Included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs. Also included $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion of outstanding structured 
notes accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excluded short-term commercial paper and other short-term beneficial interests of 
$25.1 billion and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(h)
 At December 31, 2010, long-term debt aggregating $35.6 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase, in whole or in part, prior to maturity, based on the 
terms specified in the respective notes. 
(i)
 The aggregate carrying values of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2010 is $45.9 billion in 2011, $51.9 billion in 2012, $20.4 billion in 2013, 
$23.5 billion in 2014 and $18.9 billion in 2015. 
The weighted-average contractual interest rates for total long-term 
debt excluding structured notes accounted for at fair value were 
3.78% and 3.52% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

In order to modify exposure to interest rate and currency exchange rate 

movements, JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instruments, primarily 

interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps, in conjunction with 
some of its debt issues. The use of these instruments modifies the 

Firm™s interest expense on the associated debt. The modified weighted-

average interest rates for total long-term debt, including the effects of 

related derivative instruments, were 2.52% and 1.86% as of Decem-

ber 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
266
The Firm participated in the TLG Program commencing in December 
2008. The TLG Program was available to, among others, all U.S. 

depository institutions insured by the FDIC and all U.S. bank holding 

companies, unless they opted out or the FDIC terminated their 

participation. Under the TLG Program, the FDIC guaranteed through 

the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012, certain senior unsecured 

debt issued though October 31, 2009, in return for a fee to be paid 

based on the amount and maturity of the debt. Under the TLG 

Program, the FDIC would pay the unpaid principal and interest on an 

FDIC-guaranteed debt instrument upon the failure of the 

participating entity to make a timely payment of principal or interest 

in accordance with the terms of the instrument.  
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (Parent Company) has guaranteed certain 
debt of its subsidiaries, including both long-term debt and structured 

notes sold as part of the Firm™s market-making activities. These 

guarantees rank on parity with all of the Firm™s other unsecured and 

unsubordinated indebtedness. Guaranteed liabilities totaled $3.7 

billion and $4.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respec-

tively. For additional information, see Note 2 on pages 166Œ170 of 

this Annual Report. 
The Firm™s unsecured debt does not contain requirements that 
would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes 
in the structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on 

future borrowings or require additional collateral, based on unfa-

vorable changes in the Firm™s credit ratings, financial ratios, earn-

ings or stock price. 
Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by 
trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities  

At December 31, 2010, the Firm had established 26 wholly-owned 

Delaware statutory business trusts (ﬁissuer trustsﬂ) that had issued 

guaranteed capital debt securities. 
The junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the 
Firm to the issuer trusts, totaling $20.3 billion and $19.6 billion at 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were reflected in the 

Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets in long-term debt, and in the 

table on the preceding page under the caption ﬁJunior subordinated 

debtﬂ (i.e., trust preferred capital debt securities). The Firm also 

records the common capital securities issued by the issuer trusts in 

other assets in its Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 

2010 and 2009. The debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the 

Firm, less the common capital securities of the issuer trusts, quali-

fied as Tier 1 capital as of December 31, 2010. 

 The following is a summary of the outstanding trust preferred capital debt securities, including unamortized original issue discount, issued by 

each trust, and the junior subordinated deferrable interest debenture issued to each trust, as of December 31, 2010. 
December 31, 2010 (in millions) 
Amount 
 of trust preferred 
capital debt 
securities issued 
 by trust (a) 
Principal amount 
 of debenture  
issued to trust (b)
 Issue date 
Stated maturity 
 of trust preferred 
capital securities 
 and debentures 
Earliest  
redemption 
 date 
Interest rate of  
trust preferred  
capital securities  
and debentures 
 Interest payment/
  distribution dates
 Bank One Capital III
  $      
474
  $      
674
 2000
 2030
 Any time
  8.75%
  Semia
nnually
 Bank One Capital VI
   525
   55
3 2001
 2031
 Any time
  7.20%
  Quarterly
 Chase Capital II
   482
   497
 1997
 2027
 Any time
  LIBOR + 0.50%
  Quarterly
 Chase Capital III
   295
   305
 1997
 2027
 Any time
  LIBOR + 0.55%
  Quarterly
 Chase Capital VI
   241
   249
 1998
 2028
 Any time
  LIBOR + 0.625%
  Quarterly
 First Chicago NBD Capital I
   249
   256
 1997
 2027
 Any time
   
 LIBOR + 0.55%
  Quarterly
 J.P. Morgan Chase Capital X
  1,000
   1,
015
 2002
 2032
 Any time
  7.00%
  Quarterly
 J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XI
  1,075
   1,
004
 2003
 2033
 Any time
  5.88%
  Quarterly
 J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XII
   400
   390
 2003
 2033
 Any time
  6.25%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XIII
   465
   480
 2004
 2034
 2014
  LIBOR + 0.95%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XIV
   600
   586
 2004
 2034
 Any time
  6.20%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XV
   93   132
 2005
 2035
 Any time
  5.88%
  Semiannually
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XVI
   500
   492
 2005
 2035
 Any time
  6.35%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XVII
   496
   558
 2005
 2035
 Any time
  5.85%
  Semian
nually
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XVIII
   748
   749
 2006
 2036
 Any time
  6.95%
  Semiannually
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XIX
   563
   564
 2006
 2036
 2011
  6.63%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XX
   995
   996
 2006
 2036
 Any time
  6.55%
  Semiannually
 JPMorgan Chase
 Capital XXI
   836
   837
 2007
 2037
 2012
  LIBOR + 0.95%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XXII
   996
   997
 2007
 2037
 Any time
  6.45%
  Semiannually
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIII
   643
   643
 2007
 2047
 2012
  LIBOR + 1.00%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XX
IV   700
   700
 2007
 2047
 2012
  6.88%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XXV
  1,492
   1,
844
 2007
 2037
 2037
  6.80%
  Semiannually
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XXVI
  1,815
   1,815
 2008
 2048
 2013
  8.00%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XXVI
I   995
   995
 2009
 2039
 2039
  7.0
0%
  Semiannually
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XXVIII
   1,500
   1,500
 2009
 2039
 2014
  7.2
0%
  Quarterly
 JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIX
   1,500
   1,500
 2010
 2040
 2015
  6.70%
  Quarterly
 Total
  $ 19,678  $ 20,331  
     
(a) Represents the amount of trust preferred capital debt securities issued to the public by each trust, including unamortized original issue discount.  
(b) Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures issued to each trust, including unamortized original-issue discount. The principal amount of debentures 
issued to the trusts includes the impact of hedging and purchase accounting fair value adjustments that were recorded on the Firm™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
267
Note 23 Œ Preferred stock 
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase was aut
hor-
ized to issue 200 million shares of preferred stock, in one or more 
series, with a par value of $1 per share. 
In the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Firm, JPMorgan 
Chase™s preferred stock then outstanding takes precedence over 

the Firm™s common stock for the payment of dividends and the 

distribution of assets. 
Generally, dividends on shares of each outstanding series of 
preferred stock are payable quarterly, except for the Fixed-to-

Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I 

(ﬁSeries Iﬂ), which is payable semiannually as discussed below. 
On April 23, 2008, the Firm issued 600,000 shares of Series I 
preferred stock, for total proceeds of $6.0 billion. Dividends on 

Series I shares are payable semiannually at a fixed annual divi-

dend rate of 7.90% through April 2018, and then become pay-

able quarterly at an annual dividend rate of three-month LIBOR 

plus 3.47%. 
On July 15, 2008, each series of Bear Stearns preferred stock 
then issued and outstanding was exchanged into a series of 

JPMorgan Chase preferred stock with substantially identical terms 

(6.15% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E (ﬁSeries Eﬂ); 5.72% 

Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (ﬁSeries Fﬂ); and 5.49% 
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (ﬁSeries Gﬂ)). As a result of 

the exchange, these series ranked equally with other series of the 

Firm™s preferred stock. On August 20, 2010, the Firm redeemed 

all of the outstanding shares of its Series E, Series F and Series G 

preferred stock at their stated redemption value. 
On August 21, 2008, the Firm issued 180,000 shares of 8.625% 
Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J (ﬁSeries Jﬂ), for total 

proceeds of $1.8 billion.  
On October 28, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Treasury™s Capital 
Purchase Program, the Firm issued to the U.S. Treasury, for total 

proceeds of $25.0 billion, (i) 2.5 million shares of the Firm™s Fixed 

Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series K, par value $1 

per share and liquidation preference $10,000 per share (the 

ﬁSeries K Preferred Stockﬂ); and (ii) a warrant to purchase up to 

88,401,697 shares of the Firm™s common stock at an exercise 

price of $42.42 per share (the ﬁWarrantﬂ), subject to certain 

antidilution and other adjustments. The Series K Preferred Stock 

was nonvoting, qualified as Tier 1 capital and ranked equally with 

other series of the Firm™s preferred stock in terms of dividend 

payments and upon liquidation of the Firm. On June 17, 2009, 

the Firm redeemed all outstanding shares of the Series K Pre-

ferred Stock and repaid the full $25.0 billion principal amount 

together with accrued but unpaid dividends. See Note 24 on 

page 268 for further discussion regarding the Warrant.
The following is a summary of JPMorgan Chase™s preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
 Share value and 
redemption   Shares
(b)
    Carrying value (in millions) 
 Earliest 
 Contractual 
  rate in effect at
  December 31,
  December 31, 
price per share
(a)
   2010 
 2009 
  2010 
 2009 redemption date  2010  
Cumulative Preferred Stock, 
Series E
  $ 200 
 Š  818,113 
 $ Š 
 $ 164  Š 
NA
  Cumulative Preferred Stock, 
Series F
   200 
 Š  428,825 
  Š 
   86  Š 
NA
  Cumulative Preferred Stock, 
Series G
   200 
 Š  511,169 
  Š 
   102  Š 
NA
  Fixed
-to
-Floating Rate 
 Non-Cumulative Perpetual 
Preferred Stock, Series I
   10,000 
 600,000 
 600,000 
  6,000 
   6,000  4/30/2018 
7.90
 % 
Non
-Cumulative Perpetual 
Preferred Stock, Series J
   10,000 
 180,000 
 180,000 
  1,800 
   1,800  9/1/2013 
8.63
  Total preferred stock
   780,000
  2,538,107 
 $ 7,800
  $ 8,152 
   
(a) The redemption price includes the amount shown in the table plus any accrued but unpaid dividends. 
(b) Represented by depositary shares.

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
268
Dividend and stock repurchase restrictions 
Prior to the redemption of the Series K Preferred Stock on June 
17, 2009, the Firm was subject to certain restrictions regarding 

the declaration of dividends and share repurchases. As a result of 

the redemption of the Series K Preferred Stock, JPMorgan Chase 

is no longer subject to any of these restrictions. 
Note 24 Œ Common stock
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase was authorized 
to issue 9.0 billion shares of common stock with a par value of $1 
per share. On June 5, 2009, the Firm issued $5.8 billion, or 163 

million new shares, of its common stock at $35.25 per share. On 

September 30, 2008, the Firm issued $11.5 billion, or 284 million 

new shares, of its common stock at $40.50 per share. 
On April 8, 2008, pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement 
dated March 24, 2008, between JPMorgan Chase and Bear 

Stearns, 20.7 million newly issued shares of JPMorgan Chase 

common stock were issued to Bear Stearns in a transaction that 

was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, 

pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof, in exchange for 95.0 million newly 

issued shares of Bear Stearns common stock (or 39.5% of Bear 

Stearns common stock after giving effect to the issuance). Upon the 

consummation of the Bear Stearns merger, on May 30, 2008, the 

20.7 million shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock and 95.0 

million shares of Bear Stearns common stock were cancelled. For a 

further discussion of this transaction, see Note 2 on pages 166Œ

170 of this Annual Report.  
Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from treasury) 
by JPMorgan Chase during the years ended December 31, 2010, 

2009 and 2008 were as follows. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
  20
10
   2009 2008
  Issued Œ balance at January 1 
4,104.9
 3,941.6 3,657.7
 Newly issued:
    Common stock:
     Open market issuance 
 Š 163.3 283.9
  Bear Stearns Share E
xchange 
     Agreement 
   Š
    Š 20.7
 Total newly i
ssued
  Š 163.3 304.6
 Canceled shares 
 Š     Š (20.7
 ) 
Total issued 
Œ balance at 
 December 31
  
4,104.9
 4,104.9 3,941.6
 Treasury Œ balance at January 1 
(162.9)
 (208.8)
 (290.3
 ) 
Purchase of treasury stock 
(77.9)
    Š   Š
  Share repurchases related to employee 
stock-based awards
(a)
 (0.1)
 (1.1)
 (0.5
 ) 
Issued from trea
sury:
    Net change from the Bear 
Stearns 
merger as a result of the reissuance of  
Treasury stock and the 
Share Exchange 
Agreement 
      Š
       Š 26.5
 Employee benefits and 
co
mpensation 
plans 
45.3
 45.7 54.4
 Employee stock purchase plans 
1.0
 1.3 1.1
 Total issued from treasury
 46.3
 47.0 82.0
 Total treasury 
Œ balance at 
 December 31
  
(194.6)
 (162.9)
 (208.8
 ) 
Outstanding  
3,9
10.3
 3,942.0 3,732.8
 (a) Participants in the Firm™s stock-based incentive plans may have shares 
withheld to cover income taxes. 
As noted in Note 23 on pages 267Œ268, pursuant to the U.S. 
Treasury™s Capital Purchase Program, the Firm issued to the U.S. 
Treasury a Warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 shares of the 

Firm™s common stock, at an exercise price of $42.42 per share, 

subject to certain antidilution and other adjustments. The U.S. 

Treasury exchanged the Warrant for 88,401,697 warrants, each of 

which was a warrant to purchase a share of the Firm™s common 

stock at an exercise price of $42.42 per share and, on December 

11, 2009, sold the warrants in a secondary public offering for $950 

million. The warrants are exercisable, in whole or in part, at any 

time and from time to time until October 28, 2018. The Firm did 

not purchase any of the warrants sold by the U.S. Treasury. 
Under the stock repurchase program authorized by the Firm
™s 
Board of Directors, the Firm is authorized to repurchase up to $10.0 
billion of the Firm
™s common stock plus 88 million warrants sold by 
the U.S. Treasury in 2009. During 2009, the Firm did not repur-

chase any shares of its common stock or warrants. In the second 

quarter of 2010, the Firm resumed common stock repurchases, and 

during the year repurchased an aggregate of 78 million shares for 

$3.0 billion at an average price per share of $38.49. The Firm™s 

share repurchase activities in 2010 were intended to offset share-

count increases resulting from employee stock-based incentive 

awards and were consistent with the Firm™s goal of maintaining an 

appropriate sharecount.
 The Firm did not repurchase any of the 
warrants during 2010. As of December 31, 2010, $3.2 billion of 
authorized repurchase capacity remained with respect to the com-

mon stock, and all of the authorized repurchase capacity remained 

with respect to the warrants.
 The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans 

under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to 

facilitate the repurchase of common stock and warrants in accor-

dance with the repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase 

plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it 

would not otherwise be repurchasing common stock Œ for example 

during internal trading ﬁblack-out periods.ﬂ All purchases under a 

Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan 

established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic 

information. 
As of December 31, 2010, approximately 564 million unissued 
shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under various 

employee incentive, compensation, option and stock purchase 

plans, director compensation plans, and the warrants sold by the 
U.S. Treasury as discussed above. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
269
Note 25 Œ Earnings per share 
Effective January 1, 2009, the Firm implemented accou
nting guid-
ance for participating securities, which clarifies that unvested stock-
based compensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to 

dividends or dividend equivalents (collectively, ﬁdividendsﬂ) are 

participating securities and should be included in the earnings per 

share (ﬁEPSﬂ) calculation using the two-class method. Under the 

two-class method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are 

allocated to each class of common stock and participating securi-

ties, based on their respective rights to receive dividends. JPMorgan 

Chase grants restricted stock and RSUs to certain employees under 

its stock-based compensation programs, which entitle the recipients 

to receive nonforfeitable dividends during the vesting period on a 

basis equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of common stock; 

these unvested awards meet the definition of participating securi-

ties. EPS data for the prior periods were revised as required by the 

accounting guidance. Options issued under employee benefit plans 

that have an antidilutive effect are excluded from the computation 

of diluted EPS. 
The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted 
EPS for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
 Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except per share 
 amounts)
  2010 
2009  2008
Basic earnings per share
    Income before extraordinary gain 
 $ 
 17,370
  $ 11,652  $ 3,699
Extraordinary gain  
  Š   76  1,906
Net income
   17,
370   11,728  5,605
Less: Preferred stock dividends 
  642
   1,327  674
Less: Accelerated amortization 
from redemption of preferred 
stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 
  Š
   1,112
(c)
  Š
Net income applicable to 
common equity 
  16,728
   9,289
(c)
  4,931
Less: Dividends and undistri
buted 
earnings allocated to participat-
ing securities  
  964
   515  189
Net income applicable to 
common stockholders 
 $ 15,764
  $ 8,774  $ 4,742
Total weighted
-average basic 
shares outstanding 
  3,956.3
  3,862.8  3,501.1
Per share
    Income before extraordinary gain 
 $    3.98
  $ 2.25
(c)
  $ 0.81
Extraordinary gain  
    
 Š    0.02  0.54
Net income
  $     3.98
  $ 2.27
(c)  $ 1.35
 Year ended December 31, 
    (in millions, except per share  
  amounts) 
 2010 
  2009  2008
 Diluted earnings per share
  
  Net income applicable to 
common stockholders 
 $ 15,764
  $ 8,774  $ 4,742
 Total weighted
-average basic 
shares outstanding 
  3,956.3
   3,862.8   3,501.1
 Add: Em
ployee stock options, SARs 
and warrants
(a)
   20.6
   16.9   20.7
 Total weighted
-average 
diluted shares outstanding
(b)
   3,976.9
   3,879.7   3,521.8
 Per share
    Income before extraordinary gain 
 $  3.96
  $  2.24
(c)
  $ 0.81
 Extraordinary gain  
  Š   0.02   0.54
 Net income per share
  $  3.96
  $ 2.26
(c)  $ 1.35
 (a) Excluded from the computation of diluted EPS (due to their antidilutive 
effect) were options issued under employee benefit plans and the warrants 
originally issued in 2008 under the U.S. Treasury™s Capital Purchase Pro-
gram to purchase shares of the Firm™s common stock aggregating 233 mil-
lion, 266 million and 209 million for the full years ended December 31, 

2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(b) Participating securities were included in the calculation of diluted EPS using 
the two-class method, as this computation was more dilutive than the cal-

culation using the treasury stock method. 
(c)
  The calculation of basic and diluted EPS and net income applicable to 
common equity for full year 2009 includes a one-time, noncash reduction of 

$1.1 billion, or $0.27 per share, resulting from repayment of the U.S. Trou-

bled Asset Relief Program (ﬁTARPﬂ) preferred capital. 
  
 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
270
Note 26 Œ Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) include
s the after-tax change in unrealized gains/(losses) on AFS securities, foreign currency 
translation adjustments (including the impact of related derivatives), cash flow hedging activities and net loss and prior service costs/(credit) 
related to the Firm™s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. 
As of or for the year ended 
December 31, (in millions) 
Unrealized gains/(losses) 
 on AFS securities
(b)
 Translation 
adjustments, 
net of hedges Cash flow hedges 
Net loss and 
prior 
 service costs/(credit) of  
defined benefit pension  
and OPEB plans 
Accumulated other 
comprehensive
income/(loss)
Balance at December 31, 2007 
 $ 380  $ 8  $ (802)  $ (503) 
  $    (917
 ) 
Net change 
(2,481)
(c) (606) 
600 
(2,283) 
(4,770
 ) 
Balance at December 31, 2008
   (2,101)
   (598)
   (202)
   (2,786)
 (5,687
 ) Net change 
  4,133
(d) 582 
383 
498 
5,596
  Balance at December 31, 2009   2,032
(e)
   (16)   181   (2,288) 
     (91
 ) 
Cumulative 
effect of changes in 
accounting principles
(a)
 (144) 
Š Š Š (144
 ) 
Net change 
  610
(f) 269 
25 
332 
1,236
  Balance at December 31, 2010  $ 2,498
(e)  $ 253  $ 206  $ (1,956) 
$  1,001
  (a)
 Reflects the effect of adoption of accounting guidance related to the consolidation of VIEs, and to embedded credit derivatives in beneficial interests in securitized 

financial assets. AOCI decreased by $129 million due to the adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs as a result of the reversal of the fair value adjustments 
taken on retained AFS securities that were eliminated in consolidation; for further discussion see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. AOCI decreased by 
$15 million due to the adoption of the new guidance related to credit derivatives embedded in certain of the Firm™s AFS securities; for further discussion, see Note 6 on 

pages 191Œ199 of this Annual Report. 
(b)
 Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of the AFS securities portfolio and retained interests in securitizations recorded in other assets. 
(c)
 The net change during 2008 was due primarily to spread widening related to credit card asset-backed securities, nonagency MBS and collateralized loan obligations. 
(d)
 The net change during 2009 was due primarily to overall market spread and market liquidity improvement as well as changes in the composition of investments. 
(e)
 Includes after-tax unrealized losses of $(81) million and $(226) million not related to credit on debt securities for which credit losses have been recognized in income at 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(f)
 The net change during 2010 was due primarily to the narrowing of spreads on commercial and nonagency MBS as well as on collateralized loan obligations; also 
reflects increased market value on pass-through MBS due to narrowing of spreads and other market factors. 
The following table presents the before- and after-tax changes in net unrealized gains/(losses); reclassification adjustments for realized 
(gains)/losses on AFS securities and cash flow hedges; changes resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of 
related derivatives); net gains/(losses) and prior service costs/(credits) from pension and OPEB plans; and amortization of pension and OPEB 

amounts into net income. Reclassification adjustments include amounts recognized in net income that had been recorded previously in other 
comprehensive income/(loss). 
   2010
    2009 
   2008 
   Before
        
Tax
  After
  Befo
re
      
Tax
  After
  Before
  Tax
  After
 Year ended December 31, (in millions)
  tax
      
effect
  tax
  tax
     
effect
  tax
  tax
  effect
  tax
 Unrealized gains/(losses) on AFS securities:
          
Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period 
 $ 3,9
82
  $ (1,5
40
)  $ 2,4
42  $ 7,870 
 $ (3,029)
  $ 4,841 
 $ (3,071) 
  $ 1,171 
 $ (1,900) 
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/losses 
included in net income 
(2,982)
 1,150 (1,832)
 (1,152) 444 (708) (965) 384 (581) 
  
Net change
 1,000
 (390)
 610
 6,718 (2,585)
 4,133 (4,036) 1,555 (2,481) 
Translation adjustments:
         
 Translation
 402
 (139)
 263
 1,139 (398)
 741 (1,781) 682 (1,099) 
Hedges 
11
 (5)
 6 (259) 100 (159) 820 (327) 493 
  
Net change
 413
 (144)
 269
 880 (298)
 582 (961) 355 (606) 
Cash f
low hedges:
        
  Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period 
24
7 (9
6) 15
1 767 (308)
 459 584 (226) 358 
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/losses  
             included in net income 
(206
) 80
 (12
6) (124) 48 (76) 402 (160) 242 
  
Net change
 41 (1
6) 25
 643 (260)
 383 986 (386) 600 
Net loss and prior service cost/(credit) of 
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:
        
  Net gains/(losses) and prior service credits arising 
during the period
 294 (96)
 198 
494 (200)
 294 (3,579) 1,289 (2,290) 
Reclassification adjustment for net loss and prior 
   service credits included in net income 
224 (90)
 134 
337 (133)
 204 14 (7) 7 
  
Net change
 51
8 (18
6) 332
 831 (333)
 498 (3,565) 1,282 (2,283) 
Total 
other comprehensive income/(loss)
  $ 1,97
2  $ (73
6)  $ 1,236
  $ 9,072 
 $  (3,476)
  $ 5,596 
 $ (7,576) 
  $ 2,806 
 $ (4,770) 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
271
Note 27 Œ Income taxes  
JPMorgan Chase and its eligible subsidiaries file a c
onsolidated U.S. 
federal income tax return. JPMorgan Chase uses the asset and 
liability method to provide income taxes on all transactions re-

corded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. This method 

requires that income taxes reflect the expected future tax conse-

quences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 

assets or liabilities for book and tax purposes. Accordingly, a de-

ferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference is deter-

mined based on the tax rates that the Firm expects to be in effect 

when the underlying items of income and expense are realized. 

JPMorgan Chase™s expense for income taxes includes the current 

and deferred portions of that expense. A valuation allowance is 

established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the Firm 

expects to realize.  
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of the 
Firm™s businesses, and from conducting business and being taxed in 

a substantial number of jurisdictions, significant judgments and 

estimates are required to be made. Agreement of tax liabilities 

between JPMorgan Chase and the many tax jurisdictions in which 

the Firm files tax returns may not be finalized for several years. 

Thus, the Firm™s final tax-related assets and liabilities may ulti-

mately be different from those currently reported. 
The components of income tax expense/(benefit) included in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income were as follows for each of the 

years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
 2010 
 2009  2008
Current income tax 
expense  
  U.S. federal 
 $ 4,001
  $ 4,698  $ 395
  Non-U.S. 
   2,
712
    2,368   1,009
  U.S. state and local 
  1,744
   971   307
  Total current i
ncome 
   tax expense 
   8,457
   8,037   1,711
  Deferred income tax 
expense/(benefit)  
    
U.S. federal 
  (753
)   (2,867)   (3,015
 ) 
Non-U.S. 
  169
   (454)   1
  U.S. state and local 
  (384)
   (301)   377
  Total deferred i
ncome 
   tax expense/(benefit)    (968)
   (3,622)   (2,637
 ) 
Total income tax expense/ 
(benefit) before  
extraordinary gain
  $ 7,489
  $ 4,415  $ (926
 ) 
Total income tax expense includes $485 million, $280 million and 
$55 million of tax benefits recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively, as a result of tax audit resolutions.  
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effect of certain items 
that are recorded each period directly in stockholders™ equity and 

certain tax benefits associated with the Firm™s employee stock-

based compensation plans. The tax effect of all items recorded 

directly to stockholders™ equity resulted in an increase of $1.8 
billion in 2010, a decrease of $3.7 billion in 2009, and an increase 

of $3.0 billion in 2008.
 U.S. federal income taxes have not been provided on the undis-

tributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent 

that such earnings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite 

period of time. During 2008, as part of JPMorgan Chase™s peri-

odic review of the business requirements and capital needs of its 

non-U.S. subsidiaries, combined with the formation of specific 

strategies and steps taken to fulfill these requirements and needs, 

the Firm determined that the undistributed earnings of certain of 

its subsidiaries, for which U.S. federal income taxes had been 

provided, would be indefinitely reinvested to fund the current and 

future growth of the related businesses. As management does 

not intend to use the earnings of these subsidiaries as a source of 

funding for its U.S. operations, such earnings will not be distrib-

uted to the U.S. in the foreseeable future. This determination 

resulted in the release of deferred tax liabilities and the recogni-

tion of an income tax benefit of $1.1 billion associated with these 

undistributed earnings in 2008. For 2010, pretax earnings of 

approximately $3.5 billion were generated that will be indefi-

nitely reinvested in these subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010, the 

cumulative amount of undistributed pretax earnings in these 

subsidiaries approximated $19.3 billion. If the Firm were to 

record a deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed 

earnings, the amount would be $4.3 billion at December 31, 

2010. 
Tax expense applicable to securities gains and losses for the years 
2010, 2009 and 2008 was $1.1 billion, $427 million, and $608 

million, respectively. 
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S. income tax rate to 
the effective tax rate for each of the years ended December 31, 

2010, 2009 and 2008, is presented in the following table. 
Year ended December 31,  
  
 20
10
  2009   2008
  Statutory U.S. federal tax rate 
  
35.0
%   35.0% 35.0
 % 
Increase/(decrease) in tax rate 
resulting from: 
   U.S. state and l
ocal income 
taxes, net of U.S. federal 
income tax benefit 
3.6
 2.7 16.0
  Tax-exempt income 
(2.4)
 (3.9) (14.8
 ) 
Non-U.S. subsidiary earnings
(a)
 (2.2) 
(1.7) (53.6
 ) 
Business tax credits 
(3.7)
 (5.5) (24.5
 ) 
Bear Stearns equity losses 
Š  Š 5.7
  Other, net 
(0.
2) 0.9 2.8
  Effective tax rate
 30.1
% 27.5% (33.4
 )% 
(a)
 Includes earnings deemed to be reinvested indefinitely in non-U.S. subsidiaries. 
Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) results from differences be-
tween assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting versus 
income-tax return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in 

management™s judgment, their realizability is determined to be 

more likely than not. If a deferred tax asset is determined to be 

unrealizable, a valuation allowance is established.
 The significant 
components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected in the 
following table as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
272
December 31, (in millions) 
20
10
 2009
 Deferred tax assets
   Allowance for loan losses 
 $ 12,287
   $ 12,376
 Employee benefits 
  4,279
   4,424
 Allowance for other than loan losses 
  6,029
   3,995
 Non-U.S. operations 
  956
   1,926
 Tax attribute carryforwards 
  1,
370
   912
 Fee income 
  446
   Š
 Fair value adjustments
(a)
   51
   Š
 Gross deferred tax assets
  $ 25,
418
   $ 23,633
 Deferred tax liabilities
   Depreciation and amortization 
 $ 3,500
   $   4,832
 Leasing transactions 
  2,160
   2,054
 Non-U.S. operations 
  1,136
   1,338
 Fee income 
  Š   670
 Fair value adjustments
(a)
   Š
   328
 Other, net 
  519
   147
 Gross deferred tax liabil
ities
  $ 7,
315
   $   9,369
 Valuation allowance 
  1,784
   1,677
 Net deferred tax asset
  
 $ 16,
319
   $ 12,587
 (a) Includes fair value adjustments related to AFS securities, cash flows hedging 
activities and other portfolio investments. 
JPMorgan Chase has recorded deferred tax assets of $1.4 billion at 
December 31, 2010, in connection with U.S. federal, state and local 
and non-U.S. subsidiary net operating loss carryforwards and foreign 
tax credit carryforwards. At December 31, 2010, the U.S. federal net 

operating loss carryforward was approximately $1.2 billion; the state 

and local net operating loss carryforward was approximately $1.0 

billion; the non-U.S. subsidiary net operating loss carryforward was 

$515 million; and the U.S. foreign tax credit carryforward was ap-

proximately $750 million.  
If not utilized, the U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward and 
the state and local net operating loss carryforward will expire in 
2027; and the U.S. foreign tax credit carryforward will expire in 

2020. The non-U.S. subsidiary net operating loss carryforward has 

an unlimited carryforward period.  
A valuation allowance has been recorded for losses associated with 
non-U.S. subsidiaries and certain portfolio investments, and certain 

state and local tax benefits. 
At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, JPMorgan Chase™s unrecog-
nized tax benefits, excluding related interest expense and penalties, 

were $7.8 billion, $6.6 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively, of which 

$3.8 billion, $3.5 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, if recognized, 

would reduce the annual effective tax rate. As JPMorgan Chase is 

presently under audit by a number of tax authorities, it is reasonably 

possible that 
significant changes in the gross balance of unrecog-
nized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months. JPMorgan 
Chase does not expect that any changes over the next twelve 

months in its gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits caused by 

such audits would result in a significant change in its annual effec-

tive tax rate.
 Th
e following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and 
ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended 

December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
Unrecognized tax benefits 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
 2010
  2009          2008
  Balance at January 1, 
 $ 6,608
  $ 5,894  $  4,811
  Increases based on tax positions 
related to the current period 
  813 
  584  890
  Decreases based on tax positions 
related to the current period 
  (24)
   (6)  (109
      
) 
Increases associate
d with the 
Bear Stearns merger 
  Š 
  Š  1,387
  Increases based on tax positions 
related to prior periods 
  1,681 
  703  501
  Decreases based on tax positions 
related to prior periods 
  (1,198)
   (322)  (1,386
      
) 
Decreases related to settl
ements 
with taxing authorities 
  (74)
   (203)  (181
      
) 
Decreases related to a lapse of 
applicable statute of limitations 
  (39)
   (42)  (19
      
) 
Balance at December 31,
  $ 7,767
  $ 6,608  $  5,894
  After-tax interest expense/(benefit) and penalties related to 
income tax liabilities recognized in income tax expense were 

$(54) million, $101 million and $346 million in 2010, 2009 and 

2008, respectively. 
Included in accounts payable and other liabilities at December 31, 
2010 and 2009, in addition to the Firm™s liability for unrecognized 

tax benefits, was $1.6 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, for 

income tax-related interest and penalties.  
JPMorgan Chase is subject to ongoing tax examinations by the tax 
authorities of the various jurisdictions in which it operates, includ-

ing U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S. jurisdictions. The 

Firm™s consolidated federal income tax returns are presently under 

examination by the Internal Revenue Service (ﬁIRSﬂ) for the years 

2003, 2004 and 2005. This examination is expected to conclude in 

2011. The consolidated federal income tax returns of Bear Stearns 

for the years ended November 30, 2006, and November 30, 2007, 

and for the period December 1, 2007, through May 30, 2008, are 

presently under examination. This examination is expected to 

conclude in 2012. 
 The IRS audits of the consolidated federal income tax returns of 

JPMorgan Chase for the years 2006, 2007 and 2008 are expected to 

commence in 2011. Administrative appeals are pending with the IRS 

relating to prior periods that were examined for JPMorgan Chase and 

for certain of its predecessor entities. For 2002 and prior years, refund 

claims relating to income and credit adjustments, and to tax attribute 

carrybacks, for JPMorgan Chase have been filed. Refund claims have 

been filed for Bank One for the period January 1, 2004, through July 

31, 2004, and for prior years primarily to reflect income adjustments. 

Amended returns to reflect refund claims primarily attributable to net 

operating losses and tax credit carrybacks are anticipated to be filed 

for the final Bear Stearns U.S. federal consolidated tax return for the 

period December 1, 2007, through May 30, 2008, and for prior years. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
273
The following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S. components of 
income before income tax expense/(benefit) and extraordinary gain 

for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
2010
2009
 2008
 U.S. 
$   
16,568
$   6,263
 $ (2,094
) Non-U.S.
(a)
 8,291
9,804
 4,867
 Income befo
re i
ncome tax 
expense/(benefit) and  
extraordinary gain
 $    24,859
$ 16,067
 $  2,773
 (a)  For purposes of this table, non-U.S. income is defined as income generated 
from operations located outside the U.S. 
Note 28 Œ Restrictions on cash and  
intercompany funds transfers 
The business of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Associa
tion 
(ﬁJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.ﬂ) is subject to examination and 
regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 

(ﬁOCCﬂ). The Bank is a member of the U.S. Federal Reserve Sys-

tem, and its deposits in the U.S. are insured by the FDIC. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the ﬁFed-
eral Reserveﬂ) requires depository institutions to maintain cash 

reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank. The average amount of 

reserve balances deposited by the Firm™s bank subsidiaries with 

various Federal Reserve Banks was approximately $803 million and 

$821 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Restrictions imposed by U.S. federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase 
and certain of its affiliates from borrowing from banking subsidiar-

ies unless the loans are secured in specified amounts. Such secured 

loans to the Firm or to other affiliates are generally limited to 10% 

of the banking subsidiary™s total capital, as determined by the risk-

based capital guidelines; the aggregate amount of all such loans is 

limited to 20% of the banking subsidiary™s total capital. 
The principal sources of JPMorgan Chase™s income (on a parent 
companyŒonly basis) are dividends and interest from JPMorgan 

Chase Bank, N.A., and the other banking and nonbanking subsidi-

aries of JPMorgan Chase. In addition to dividend restrictions set 

forth in statutes and regulations, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and 

the FDIC have authority under the Financial Institutions Supervisory 

Act to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking 

organizations they supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its 

subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies, if, in the 
banking regulator™s opinion, payment of a dividend would consti-

tute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condi-

tion of the banking organization. 
At January 1, 2011, JPMorgan Chase™s banking subsidiaries could 
pay, in the aggregate, $2.0 billion in dividends to their respective 

bank holding companies without the prior approval of their relevant 

banking regulators. The capacity to pay dividends in 2011 will be 

supplemented by the banking subsidiaries™ earnings during the 

year. 
In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S. and 
non-U.S. regulators, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, cash in 

the amount of $25.0 billion and $24.0 billion, respectively, and 

securities with a fair value of $9.7 billion and $10.2 billion, respec-

tively, were segregated in special bank accounts for the benefit of 

securities and futures brokerage customers. 
 Note 29 Œ Capital 
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, i
ncluding 
well-capitalized standards for the consolidated financial holding 
company. The OCC establishes similar capital requirements and 

standards for the Firm™s national banks, including JPMorgan Chase 

Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A. 
There are two categories of risk-based capital: Tier 1 capital and 
Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital consists of common stockholders™ 

equity, perpetual preferred stock, noncontrolling interests in sub-

sidiaries and trust preferred capital debt securities, less goodwill 

and certain other adjustments. Tier 2 capital consists of preferred 

stock not qualifying as Tier 1, subordinated long-term debt and 

other instruments qualifying as Tier 2, and the aggregate allowance 

for credit losses up to a certain percentage of risk-weighted assets. 

Total capital is Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital. Under the risk-

based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve, JPMorgan Chase is 

required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and Total capital to 

risk-weighted assets, as well as minimum leverage ratios (which are 

defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted quarterly average 

assets). Failure to meet these minimum requirements could cause 

the Federal Reserve to take action. Banking subsidiaries also are 

subject to these capital requirements by their respective primary 

regulators. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase 

and all of its banking subsidiaries were well-capitalized and met all 

capital requirements to which each was subject. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
274
The following table presents the regulatory capital, assets and risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009. These amounts are determined in accordance with regulations issued by the Federal Reserve and/or OCC. 
    Well- 
capitalized 
ratios
(g)
   Minimum 
    capital 
     ratios
(g)
 December 31, 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(e)
    JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(e)
     Chase Bank USA, N.A.
(e)
  (in millions, except ratios)
  2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
 2010
  2009 
Regulatory capital
          Tier 1
(a)
   $   142,450 
 $   132,971 
 $   91,764 
 $    96,372 
 $   12,966 
 $  15,534  
  Total  
 182,
216
  177,073 
 130,
44
4   136,646 
 16,659
 19,198  
  Assets  
        Risk-weighted
(b)(c)
   1,174,978
(f)
   1,198,006 
  965,897 
  1,011,995 
  116,992 
  114,693  
  Adjusted average
(d)
   2,024,515
(f)
   1,933,767 
  1,611,486 
  1,609,081 
  117,368 
  74,087  
  Capital ratios  
        
Tier 1
(a)
    12.1%
(f)
     11.1% 
 9.5%
  9.5%
    11.1%
   
 13.5%
 6.0% 4.0
 % Total  
 15.5
  14.8 
 13.5
     13.5 
 14.2
   16.7 10.0  8.0
  Tier 1 leverage 
 7.0 
 6.9 
 5.7 
 6.0 
 11.0 
  21.0 5.0
(h)
  3.0
 (i)
 (a)
 At December 31, 2010, for JPMorgan Chase and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., trust preferred capital debt securities were $19.8 billion and $600 million, respec-
tively. If these securities were excluded from the calculation at December 31, 2010, Tier 1 capital would be $122.7 billion and $91.2 billion, respectively, and the 
Tier 1 capital ratio would be 10.4% and 9.4%, respectively. At December 31, 2010, Chase Bank USA, N.A. had no trust preferred capital debt securities. 
(b)
 Risk-weighted assets consist of onŒ and offŒbalance sheet assets that are assigned to one of several broad risk categories and weighted by factors representing their 
risk and potential for default. OnŒbalance sheet assets are risk-weighted based on the perceived credit risk associated with the obligor or counterparty, the nature of 

any collateral, and the guarantor, if any. OffŒbalance sheet assets such as lending-related commitments, guarantees, derivatives and other applicable offŒbalance 

sheet positions are risk-weighted by multiplying the contractual amount by the appropriate credit conversion factor to determine the onŒbalance sheet credit-
equivalent amount, which is then risk-weighted based on the same factors used for onŒbalance sheet assets. Risk-weighted assets also incorporate a measure for 
the market risk related to applicable trading assetsŠdebt and equity instruments, and foreign exchange and commodity derivatives. The resulting risk-weighted val-
ues for each of the risk categories are then aggregated to determine total risk-weighted assets. 
(c) Includes offŒbalance sheet risk-weighted assets at December 31, 2010, of $282.9 billion, $274.2 billion and $31 million, and at December 31, 2009, of $367.4 billion, $312.3 
billion and $49.9 billion, for JPMorgan Chase, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., respectively. 
(d) Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the leverage ratio, include total quarterly average assets adjusted for unrealized gains/(losses) on securities, less 
deductions for disallowed goodwill and other intangible assets, investments in certain subsidiaries, and the total adjusted carrying value of nonfinancial equity in-
vestments that are subject to deductions from Tier 1 capital. 
(e) Asset and capital amounts for JPMorgan Chase™s banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany transactions; whereas the respective amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect 
the elimination of intercompany transactions. 
(f) Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted new guidance that amended the accounting for the consolidation of VIEs, which resulted in a decrease in the Tier 1 
capital ratio of 34 basis points. See Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report for further information. 
(g) As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC. 

(h) Represents requirements for banking subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the FDIC Improvement Act. There is no Tier 1 leverage component in the 
definition of a well-capitalized bank holding company. 
(i) The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio for bank holding companies and banks is 3% or 4%, depending on factors specified in regulations issued by the Federal Reserve 
and OCC. 
Note: Rating agencies allow measures of capital to be adjusted upward for deferred tax liabilities, which have resulted from both nontaxable business combinations and 
from tax-deductible goodwill. The Firm had deferred tax liabilities resulting from nontaxable business combinations totaling $647 million and $812 million at  
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively; and deferred tax liabilities resulting from tax-deductible goodwill of $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2010 
and 2009, respectively. 
A reconciliation of the Firm™s Total stockholders™ equity to Tier 1 capital and Total qualifying capital is presented in the table below.
 December 31, (in millions)
  2010
  2009
Tier 1 capital
  Total stockholde
rs™ equity
  $ 176,106
   $  165,365
Effect of certain items in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) excluded from Tier 1 capital 
(748
) 75
Qualifying hybrid securities and noncontrolling interests
(a)
 19,887
 19,535
Less: Goodwill
(b)
 46,915
 46,630
Fair value DVA on derivative and structured note liabilities related to the Firm™s credit quality 
1,261
 912
Investments in certain subsidiaries and other 
1,03
2 802
Other intangible assets
(b)
 3,587
 3,660
Total Tier 1 capital
 142,
450
 132,971
Tie
r 2 capital
   Long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2 
25,018
 28,977
Qualifying allowance for credit losses 
14,
959
 15,296
Adjustment for investments in certain subsidiaries and other 
(211
) (171) 
Total Tier 2 capital
 39,7
66
  44,102
Total qualifying capital
  $ 182,
216
   $  177,073
(a)   Primarily includes trust preferred capital debt securities of certain business trusts. 
(b)   Goodwill and other intangible assets are net of any associated deferred tax liabilities.
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
275
Note 30 Œ OffŒbalance sheet lending-related 
financial instruments, guarantees and other 

commitments
 JP
Morgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g., 
commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its 
customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments 

represents the Firm™s maximum possible credit risk should the 

counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required to 

fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and should the counter-

party subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the 

contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees expire with-

out being drawn or a default occurring. As a result, the total con-

tractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm™s view, 

representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding re-

quirements.
   To provide for the risk of loss inherent in wholesale and consumer 
(excluding credit card) related contracts, an allowance for credit 
losses on lending-related commitments is maintained. See Note 15 

on pages 239Œ243 of this Annual Report for further discussion 

regarding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related com-

mitments. 
The following table summarizes the contractual amounts and 
carrying values of off-balance sheet lending-related financial in-

struments, guarantees and other commitments at December 31, 

2010 and 2009. The amounts in the table below for credit card and 

home equity lending-related commitments represent the total 

available credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, 

and does not anticipate, that all available lines of credit for these 

products will be utilized at the same time. The Firm can reduce or 

cancel credit card lines of credit by providing the borrower prior 

notice or, in some cases, without notice as permitted by law. The 

Firm may reduce or close home equity lines of credit when there are 

significant decreases in the value of the underlying property or 

when there has been a demonstrable decline in the creditworthi-

ness of the borrower.
 OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments 
       Contractual amount 
 Carrying value
(l) December 31, (in millions)
       
2010
         2009 
          
 2010
           2009
  Lending
-related
      Consumer, excluding credit card:
      Home equity Š senior lien 
 $ 16,060
  $ 19,246
  $ Š  $     Š 
Home equity Š junior lien 
  28,681
   37,231
   Š   Š 
Prime mortgage 
  1,266
   1,654
   Š   Š 
Subprime mortgage 
  Š   Š
   Š   Š 
Auto  
  5,246
   5,467
   2   7 
Business banking  
  9,702
   9,040
   4  5 
Student and other 
  579
   2,189
   Š  Š 
Total consumer, excluding credit card
   61,534
   74,827
   6   12 
Credit card 
  547,227
   569,113
   Š   Š 
Total consumer
   608,761
   643,940
   6   12 
Wholesale:
     Other unfunded commitments to extend credit
(a)(b)
(c)
   199,859
   192,145
   364
   356 
Asset purchase agreements
(b)
   Š
   22,685
   Š
   126 
Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees
(a)(c)(d)
(e)
   94,837
   91,485
   705
   919 
Unused advised lines of credit 
  44,720
   35,673
   Š   Š 
Other letters of credit
(a)(
e)   6,663
   5,167
   2
   1 
Total whol
esale
   346,079
   347,155
   1,071
   1,402 
Total lending
-related
  $ 954,840
  $ 991,095
  $ 1,077
  $ 1,414 
Other guara
ntees and commitments
     Securities lending indemnifications
(f)  $ 181,717
  $ 170,777
  $ NA
  $     NA 
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
(g)   87,768
 98,052
(k)
   294
   896
(k) 
Unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements 
  39,927
   48,187
   Š   Š 
Equity investment commitments
(h)   2,468
   2,374
   Š
   Š 
Building purchase commitments 
  258
   670
   Š   Š 
Other guarantees and commitments
(i)   3,766
   3,671
   6
   6 
Loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications: 
    Repurchase liability
(j)   NA
   NA
   3,285
   1,705 
Loans sold with recourse 
  10,982
   13,544
   153
   271 
(a)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, represents the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $542 million and $643 million, respectively, for other unfunded com-
mitments to extend credit; $22.4 billion and $24.6 billion, respectively, for standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees; and $1.1 billion and $690 million, respec-
tively, for other letters of credit. In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve Board these commitments are shown gross of risk participations. 
(b)
 Upon the adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs, $24.2 billion of lending-related commitments between the Firm and Firm-administered multi-seller 

conduits were eliminated upon consolidation. The decrease in lending-related commitments was partially offset by the addition of $6.5 billion of unfunded commit-

ments directly between the multi-seller conduits and clients; these unfunded commitments of the consolidated conduits are now included as offŒbalance sheet lending-
related commitments of the Firm. The carrying value of asset purchase agreements of $126 million at December 31, 2009 was comprised of $18 million for the allowance for 

lending-related commitments; and $108 million for the guarantee liability and corresponding asset. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
276
(c)
 Includes credit enhancements and bond and commercial paper liquidity commitments to U.S. states and municipalities, hospitals and other not-for-profit entities of 
$43.4 billion and $44.1 billion, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(d)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes unissued standby letters of credit commitments of $41.6 billion and $38.4 billion, respectively.  
(e)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $37.8 billion and $31.5 billion, respectively, of standby letters of credit; and $2.1 billion and 

$1.3 billion, respectively, of other letters of credit. 
(f)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $185.0 billion and $173.2 billion, respectively. 
Securities lending collateral comprises primarily cash, and securities issued by governments that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
(ﬁOECDﬂ) and U.S. government agencies. 
(g)
 Represents notional amounts of derivatives qualifying as guarantees. The carrying value at December 31, 2010 and 2009, reflects derivative payables of $390 million and 

$974 million, respectively, less derivative receivables of $96 million and $78 million, respectively. 
(h)
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes unfunded commitments of $1.0 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, to third-party private equity funds that are generally fair 

valued at net asset value as discussed in Note 3 on pages 170Œ187 of this Annual Report; and $1.4 billion and $897 million, respectively, to other equity investments.  
(i)
 Amounts include letters of credit hedged by derivative transactions and managed on a market risk basis. 
(j) Represents estimated repurchase liability related to indemnifications for breaches of representations and warranties in loan sale and securitization agreements. For 
additional information, see Loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications on pages 278Œ279 of this Note. 
(k)
 The prior period has been revised to conform to current presentation. 
(l)
 For lending-related products the carrying value represents the allowance for lending-related commitments and the fair value of the guarantee liability, for derivative-related 
products the carrying value represents the fair value. For all other products the carrying value represents the valuation reserve. 
 Other unfunded commitments to extend credit 
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit are generally com-
prised of commitments for working capital and general corporate 

purposes as well as extensions of credit to support commercial 

paper facilities and bond financings in the event that those obliga-

tions cannot be remarketed to new investors. 
Also included in other unfunded commitments to extend credit are 
commitments to noninvestment-grade counterparties in connection 

with leveraged and acquisition finance activities which were $5.9 

billion and $7.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respec-

tively. For further information, see Note 3 and Note 4 on pages 

170Œ187 and 187Œ189 respectively, of this Annual Report. 
Guarantees 
U.S. GAAP requires that a guarantor recognize, at the inception of 

a guarantee, a liability in an amount equal to the fair value of the 

obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee.  U.S. GAAP defines 

a guarantee as a contract that contingently requires the guarantor 

to pay a guaranteed party based upon: (a) changes in an underlying 

asset, liability or equity security of the guaranteed party; or (b) a 

third party™s failure to perform under a specified agreement. The 

Firm considers the following offŒbalance sheet lending-related 

arrangements to be guarantees under U.S. GAAP: certain asset 

purchase agreements, standby letters of credit and financial guar-

antees, securities lending indemnifications, certain indemnification 

agreements included within third-party contractual arrangements 

and certain derivative contracts.  
As required by U.S. GAAP, the Firm initially records guarantees at 
the inception date fair value of the obligation assumed (e.g., the 

amount of consideration received, the net present value of the 

premium receivable). For certain types of guarantees, the Firm 

records this fair value amount in other liabilities with an offsetting 

entry recorded in cash (for premiums received), or other assets (for 
premiums receivable). Any premium receivable recorded in other 

assets is reduced as cash is received under the contract, and the fair 

value of the liability recorded at inception is amortized into income 

as lending- and deposit-related fees over the life of the guarantee 

contract. For indemnifications provided in sales agreements, a 

portion of the sale proceeds is allocated to the guarantee, which 

adjusts the gain or loss that would otherwise result from the trans-

action. For these indemnifications, the initial liability is amortized to 

income as the Firm™s risk is reduced (i.e., over time or when the 

indemnification expires). Any contingent liability that exists as a 

result of issuing the guarantee or indemnification is recognized 

when it become probable and reasonably estimable. The contingent 

portion of the liability is not recognized if the estimated amount is 

less than the carrying amount of the liability recognized at inception 

(adjusted for any amortization). The recorded amounts of the 

liabilities related to guarantees and indemnifications at December 

31, 2010 and 2009, excluding the allowance for credit losses on 

lending-related commitments, are discussed in footnote (b) to the 

table above and below in this Note on pages 276Œ280. 
Standby letters of credit  
Standby letters of credit (ﬁSBLCﬂ) and other financial guarantees 

are conditional lending commitments issued by the Firm to guaran-

tee the performance of a customer to a third party under certain 

arrangements, such as commercial paper facilities, bond financings, 

acquisition financings, trade and similar transactions. The carrying 

values of standby and other letters of credit were $707 million and 

$920 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which 

were classified in accounts payable and other liabilities on the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets; these carrying values include $347 

million and $553 million, respectively, for the allowance for lend-

ing-related commitments, and $360 million and $367 million, 

respectively, for the guarantee liability and corresponding asset. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
277
The following table presents standby letters of credit and other letters of credit arrangements by the ratings profiles of the Firm™s customers as 
of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees and other letters of credit 
 2010
  2009 
December 31, (in millions)
 Standby letters 
 of credit and other 
financial guarantees 
Other letters  
of credit 
  
 Standby letters 
    
of credit and other     
 financial guarantees 
   
Other letters 
      of credit 
 Investment-grade
(a)
  $ 70,236
  $ 5,289
  $ 66,786   $  3,861
Noninvestment-grade
(a)
   24,601
    1,374
   24,699   1,306
Total contractual amount
(b)
   94,837
(c)
   6,663
   91,485
(c)
   5,167
Allowance for lending-related commitments 
  345
   2   552           1
Commitments with collateral 
  37,815
    2,127
   31,454   1,315
(a) The ratings scale is based on the Firm™s internal ratings which generally correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody™s. 
(b) At December 31, 2010 and 2009, represents the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $22.4 billion and $24.6 billion, respectively, for standby letters of 
credit and other financial guarantees; and $1.1 billion and $690 million, respectively, for other letters of credit. In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve these 
commitments are shown gross of risk participations. 
(c) At December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes unissued standby letters of credit commitments of $41.6 billion and $38.4 billion, respectively. 
Indemnification agreements Œ general 
In connection with issuing securities to investors, the Firm may enter 
into contractual arrangements with third parties that require the Firm 

to make a payment to them in the event of a change in tax law or an 

adverse interpretation of tax law. In certain cases, the contract also 

may include a termination clause, which would allow the Firm to 

settle the contract at its fair value in lieu of making a payment under 

the indemnification clause. The Firm may also enter into indemnifica-

tion clauses in connection with the licensing of software to clients 

(ﬁsoftware licenseesﬂ) or when it sells a business or assets to a third 

party (ﬁthird-party purchasersﬂ), pursuant to which it indemnifies 

software licensees for claims of liability or damages that may occur 

subsequent to the licensing of the software, or third-party purchasers 

for losses they may incur due to actions taken by the Firm prior to the 

sale of the business or assets. It is difficult to estimate the Firm™s 

maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements, since 

this would require an assessment of future changes in tax law and 

future claims that may be made against the Firm that have not yet 

occurred. However, based on historical experience, management 

expects the risk of loss to be remote.  
Securities lending indemnification 
 Through the Firm™s securities lending program, customers™ securi-

ties, via custodial and non-custodial arrangements, may be lent to 

third parties. As part of this program, the Firm provides an indemni-

fication in the lending agreements which protects the lender 

against the failure of the third-party borrower to return the lent 

securities in the event the Firm did not obtain sufficient collateral. 

To minimize its liability under these indemnification agreements, 

the Firm obtains cash or other highly liquid collateral with a market 

value exceeding 100% of the value of the securities on loan from 

the borrower. Collateral is marked to market daily to help assure 

that collateralization is adequate. Additional collateral is called 

from the borrower if a shortfall exists, or collateral may be released 

to the borrower in the event of overcollateralization. If a borrower 

defaults, the Firm would use the collateral held to purchase re-

placement securities in the market or to credit the lending customer 

with the cash equivalent thereof. Also, as part of this program, the 
Firm invests cash collateral received from the borrower in accor-

dance with approved guidelines.  
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees  
In addition to the contracts described above, the Firm transacts 

certain derivative contracts that meet the characteristics of a guar-

antee under U.S. GAAP. These contracts include written put options 

that require the Firm to purchase assets upon exercise by the option 

holder at a specified price by a specified date in the future. The 

Firm may enter into written put option contracts in order to meet 

client needs, or for trading purposes. The terms of written put 

options are typically five years or less. Derivative guarantees also 

include contracts such as stable value derivatives that require the 

Firm to make a payment of the difference between the market 

value and the book value of a counterparty™s reference portfolio of 

assets in the event that market value is less than book value and 

certain other conditions have been met. Stable value derivatives, 

commonly referred to as ﬁstable value wrapsﬂ, are transacted in 

order to allow investors to realize investment returns with less 

volatility than an unprotected portfolio and are typically longer-term 

or may have no stated maturity, but allow the Firm to terminate the 

contract under certain conditions.  
Derivative guarantees are recorded on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets at fair value in trading assets and trading liabilities. The 

total notional amount of the derivatives that the Firm deems to be 

guarantees was $87.8 billion and $98.1 billion at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively. The notional amount generally repre-

sents the Firm™s maximum exposure to derivatives qualifying as 

guarantees. However, exposure to certain stable value derivatives is 

contractually limited to a substantially lower percentage of the 

notional amount; the notional amount on these stable value con-

tracts was $25.9 billion and $24.9 billion and the maximum expo-

sure to loss was $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion, at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively. The fair values of the contracts re-

flects the probability of whether the Firm will be required to per-

form under the contract. The fair value related to derivative 

guarantees were derivative payables of $390 million and $974 mil-

lion and derivative receivables of $96 million and $78 million at 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
278
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Firm reduces expo-
sures to these contracts by entering into offsetting transactions, or by 

entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related to the 

derivative guarantees. 
In addition to derivative contracts that meet the characteristics of 
a guarantee, the Firm is both a purchaser and seller of credit 

protection in the credit derivatives market. For a further discus-

sion of credit derivatives, see Note 6 on pages 191Œ199 of this 

Annual Report. 
Unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowing 
agreements 

In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into reverse 

repurchase agreements and securities borrowing agreements that 

settle at a future date. At settlement, these commitments require 

that the Firm advance cash to and accept securities from the 

counterparty. These agreements generally do not meet the defini-

tion of a derivative, and therefore, are not recorded on the Con-

solidated Balance Sheets until settlement date. At December 31, 

2010 and 2009, the amount of commitments related to forward 

starting reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing 

agreements were $14.4 billion and $23.4 billion, respectively. 

Commitments related to unsettled reverse repurchase agreements 

and securities borrowing agreements with regular way settlement 

periods were $25.5 billion and $24.8 billion at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Building purchase commitments 
In connection with the Bear Stearns merger, the Firm succeeded to an 

operating lease arrangement for the building located at 383 Madison 

Avenue in New York City (the ﬁSynthetic Leaseﬂ). Under the terms of 

the Synthetic Lease, the Firm was obligated to a maximum residual 

value guarantee of approximately $670 million if the building were 

sold and the proceeds of the sale were insufficient to satisfy the 

lessor™s debt obligation. Effective November 1, 2010, the lease ex-

pired and the Firm purchased the property recognizing the $670 

million purchase price in premises and equipment.  
On December 15, 2010, the Firm entered into an agreement to 
purchase the leasehold property at 60 Victoria Embankment in 

London, a building the Firm has leased since 1991, for approxi-

mately $253 million. The purchase of this building is expected to 

close in the second quarter of 2011.
 Loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications 
Indemnifications for breaches of representations and warranties 
In connection with the Firm™s loan sale and securitization activities 
with the GSEs and other loan sale and private-label securitization 

transactions, as described in Notes 14 and 16 on pages 220Œ238 

and 244Œ259, respectively, of this Annual Report, the Firm has 

made representations and warranties that the loans sold meet 

certain requirements. For transactions with the GSEs, these repre-

sentations include type of collateral, underwriting standards, valid-

ity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan, 

that primary mortgage insurance is in force for any mortgage loan 

with an LTV ratio greater than 80%, and the use of the GSEs™ 
standard legal documentation. The Firm may be, and has been, 

required to repurchase loans and/or indemnify the GSEs and other 

investors for losses due to material breaches of these representa-

tions and warranties; however, predominantly all of the repurchase 

demands received by the Firm and the Firm™s losses realized to date 

are related to loans sold to the GSEs. Generally, the maximum 

amount of future payments the Firm would be required to make for 

breaches of these representations and warranties would be equal 

to the unpaid principal balance of such loans that are deemed to 

have defects sold to purchasers (including securitization-related 

SPEs) plus, in certain circumstances, accrued and unpaid interest on 

such loans and certain expense. 
Subsequent to the Firm™s acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of 
Washington Mutual from the FDIC in September 2008, the Firm 

resolved and/or limited certain current and future repurchase de-

mands for loans sold to the GSEs by Washington Mutual, although it 

remains the Firm™s position that such obligations remain with the 

FDIC receivership. Nevertheless, certain payments have been made 

with respect to certain of the then current and future repurchase 

demands, and the Firm will continue to evaluate and may pay 

certain future repurchase demands related to individual loans. In 

addition to the payments already made, the Firm has a remaining 

repurchase liability of approximately $190 million as of December 31, 

2010, relating to unresolved and future demands on the Washington 

Mutual portfolio.  
The primary reasons for repurchase demands from the GSEs relate to 
alleged misrepresentations primarily driven by: (i) credit quality and/or 

undisclosed debt of the borrower; (ii) income level and/or employ-

ment status of the borrower; and (iii) appraised value of collateral. 

Ineligibility of the borrower for the particular product, mortgage 

insurance rescissions and missing documentation are other reasons 

for repurchase demands.  
Beginning in 2009, mortgage insurers more frequently rescinded 
mortgage insurance coverage. The successful rescission of mortgage 

insurance typically results in a violation of representations and war-

ranties made to the GSEs and, therefore, has been a significant cause 

of repurchase demands from the GSEs. The Firm actively reviews all 

rescission notices from mortgage insurers and contests them when 

appropriate. In addition, the Firm is engaged in discussions with 

various mortgage insurers on their rights and practices related to 

rescinding mortgage insurance coverage. The Firm has entered into 

agreements with two mortgage insurers to make processes more 

efficient and reduce exposure on claims on certain portfolios for 

which the Firm is a servicer. The impact of these agreements is re-

flected in the repurchase liability as of December 31, 2010. 
When the Firm accepts a repurchase demand from one of the GSEs, 
the Firm may either (a) repurchase the loan or the underlying col-

lateral from the GSE at the unpaid principal balance of the loan 

plus accrued interest, or (b) reimburse the GSE for its realized loss 

on a liquidated property (a ﬁmake-wholeﬂ payment).  
To estimate the Firm™s repurchase liability arising from breaches of 
representations and warranties, the Firm considers:  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
279
(i)
 the level of current unresolved repurchase demands and mortgage 
insurance rescission notices, 
(ii)
 estimated probable future repurchase demands based upon loans 

that are or ever have been 90 days past due considering historical 

experience,  
(iii)
 the potential ability of the Firm to cure the defects identified in the 

repurchase demands,  
(iv)
 the estimated severity of loss upon repurchase of the loan or collat-

eral, make-whole settlement, or indemnification,  
(v)
 the Firm™s potential ability to recover its losses from third-party 

originators, and 
(vi)
 the terms of agreements with certain mortgage insurers and other 

parties. 
Based on these factors, the Firm has recognized a repurchase 

liability of $3.3 billion and $1.7 billion, including the Washington 

Mutual liability described above, as of December 31, 2010 and 

2009, respectively, which is reported in accounts payable and other 

liabilities net of probable recoveries from third parties.  
Substantially all of the estimates and assumptions underlying the 
Firm™s established methodology for computing its recorded repur-

chase liability Œ including factors such as the amount of probable 

future demands from purchasers, the ability of the Firm to cure 

identified defects, the severity of loss upon repurchase or foreclo-

sure, and recoveries from third parties Œ require application of a 

significant level of management judgment.  Estimating the repur-

chase liability is further complicated by limited and rapidly changing 

historical data and uncertainty surrounding numerous external 

factors, including: (i) macro-economic factors, and (ii) the level of 

future demands, which is dependent, in part, on actions taken by 

third parties such as the GSEs and mortgage insurers.  While the 

Firm uses the best information available to it in estimating its 

repurchase liability, the estimation process is inherently uncertain 

and imprecise and, accordingly, losses in excess of the amounts 

accrued as of December 31, 2010 are reasonably possible. 
The Firm believes the estimate of the range of reasonably possible 
losses, in excess of reserves established, for its repurchase liability is 

from $0 to approximately $2 billion at December 31, 2010. This 

estimated range of reasonably possible loss is based on an as-

sumed peak to trough decline in home prices of 46%, which is an 

additional 12 percentage point decline in home prices beyond the 

Firm™s current assumptions. Such a decline could increase the level 

of loan delinquencies, thereby potentially increasing the repurchase 

demand rate from the GSEs and increasing loss severity on repur-

chased loans, each of which could affect the Firm™s repurchase 

liability. The Firm does not consider such a further decline in home 

prices to be likely to occur, and actual repurchase losses could vary 

significantly from the Firm™s recorded repurchase liability or this 

estimate of reasonably possible additional losses, depending on the 

outcome of various factors, including those considered above.  
The following table summarizes the change in the repurchase 

liability for each of the periods presented. 
Summary of changes in repurchase liability 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
    2010 
     2009      2008 
Repurchase liability at begi
n-ning of period 
 $ 1,705
  $ 1,093  $ 15
 Realized losses
(a)
   (1,423)
   (1,253)
(c)   (155) 
Provision for repurchase losses
   3,003
   1,865   1,233
(d)
 Repurchase liability at end 
of period 
 $ 3,285
(b)
  $ 1,705  $ 1,093 
(a)
 Includes principal losses and accrued interest on repurchased loans, ﬁmake-wholeﬂ 
settlements, settlements with claimants, and certain related expense. For the years 
ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, make-whole settlements were $632 

million, $277 million and $34 million, respectively. 
(b)
 Includes $190 million at December 31, 2010, related to future demands on loans 
sold by Washington Mutual to the GSEs. 
(c)
 Includes the Firm™s resolution of certain current and future repurchase demands for 
certain loans sold by Washington Mutual. 
(d)
 Includes a repurchase liability assumed for certain loans sold by Washington 

Mutual; this assumed liability was reported as a reduction of the extraordinary gain 

rather than as a charge to the provision for credit losses. 
Loans sold with recourse 
The Firm provides servicing for mortgages and certain commercial 
lending products on both a recourse and nonrecourse basis. In 

nonrecourse servicing, the principal credit risk to the Firm is the 

cost of temporary servicing advances of funds (i.e., normal servic-

ing advances). In recourse servicing, the servicer agrees to share 

credit risk with the owner of the mortgage loans, such as Fannie 

Mae or Freddie Mac or a private investor, insurer or guarantor. 

Losses on recourse servicing predominantly occur when foreclo-

sure sales proceeds of the property underlying a defaulted loan 

are less than the sum of the outstanding principal balance, plus 

accrued interest on the loan and the cost of holding and dispos-

ing of the underlying property. The Firm
™s securitizations are 
predominantly nonrecourse, thereby effectively transferring the 

risk of future credit losses to the purchaser of the mortgage-

backed securities issued by the trust. At December 31, 2010 and 

2009, the unpaid principal balance of loans sold with recourse 

totaled $11.0 billion and $13.5 billion, respectively. The carrying 

value of the related liability that the Firm has recorded, which is 

representative of the Firm
™s view of the likelihood it will have to 
perform under this guarantee, was $153 million and $271 million 

at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Credit card charge-backs  
Prior to November 1, 2008, the Firm was a partner with one of 

the leading companies in electronic payment services in a joint 

venture operating under the name of Chase Paymentech Solu-

tions, LLC (the ﬁjoint ventureﬂ). The joint venture provided mer-

chant processing services in the U.S. and Canada. The dissolution 

of the joint venture was completed on November 1, 2008, and 

JPMorgan Chase retained approximately 51% of the business 

under the Chase Paymentech name.  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
280
Under the rules of Visa USA, Inc., and MasterCard International, 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., is liable primarily for the amount of 

each processed credit card sales transaction that is the subject of a 

dispute between a cardmember and a merchant. If a dispute is 

resolved in the cardmember™s favor, Chase Paymentech will 

(through the cardmember™s issuing bank) credit or refund the 

amount to the cardmember and will charge back the transaction to 

the merchant. If Chase Paymentech is unable to collect the amount 

from the merchant, Chase Paymentech will bear the loss for the 

amount credited or refunded to the cardmember. Chase Paymen-

tech mitigates this risk by withholding future settlements, retaining 

cash reserve accounts or by obtaining other security. However, in 

the unlikely event that: (1) a merchant ceases operations and is 

unable to deliver products, services or a refund; (2) Chase Paymen-

tech does not have sufficient collateral from the merchant to pro-

vide customer refunds; and (3) Chase Paymentech does not have 

sufficient financial resources to provide customer refunds, JPMor-

gan Chase Bank, N.A., would be liable for the amount of the 

transaction. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Chase Pay-

mentech incurred aggregate credit losses of $12 million on $469.3 

billion of aggregate volume processed, and at December 31, 2010, 

it held $189 million of collateral. For the year ended December 31, 

2009, Chase Paymentech incurred aggregate credit losses of $11 

million on $409.7 billion of aggregate volume processed, and at 

December 31, 2009, it held $213 million of collateral. For the year 

ended December 31, 2008, Chase Paymentech incurred aggregate 

credit losses of $13 million on $713.9 billion of aggregate volume 

processed, and at December 31, 2008, it held $222 million of 

collateral. The Firm believes that, based on historical experience 

and the collateral held by Chase Paymentech, the fair value of the 

Firm™s charge back-related obligations, which are representative of 

the payment or performance risk to the Firm, is immaterial. 
Exchange and clearinghouse guarantees 
The Firm is a member of several securities and futures exchanges 

and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and other countries. Member-

ship in some of these organizations requires the Firm to pay a pro 

rata share of the losses incurred by the organization as a result of 

the default of another member. Such obligations vary with different 

organizations. These obligations may be limited to members who 

dealt with the defaulting member or to the amount (or a multiple of 

the amount) of the Firm™s contribution to a member™s guarantee 

fund, or, in a few cases, the obligation may be unlimited. It is 

difficult to estimate the Firm™s maximum exposure under these 

membership agreements, since this would require an assessment of 

future claims that may be made against the Firm that have not yet 

occurred. However, based on historical experience, management 

expects the risk of loss to be remote. 
Note 31 Œ Commitments, pledged assets, 
co
llateral and contingencies 
Lease commitments
 At
 December 31, 2010, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were 
obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases for 
premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes, and 

for energy-related tolling service agreements. Certain leases contain 

renewal options or escalation clauses providing for increased rental 

payments based on maintenance, utility and tax increases, or they 

require the Firm to perform restoration work on leased premises. 

No lease agreement imposes restrictions on the Firm™s ability to pay 

dividends, engage in debt or equity financing transactions or enter 

into further lease agreements.  
The following table presents required future minimum rental pay-
ments under operating leases with noncancelable lease terms that 

expire after December 31, 2010.
 Year ended December 31, (in mi
llions)
   2011
 $    
1,884
 2012
 1,804
 2013
 1,674
 2014
 1,497
 2015
 1,363
 After 2015
 7,778
 Total minimum payments required
(a)
 16,000 
Less: Sublease rentals under noncancelable su
bleases
 (1,848
) Net
 minimum payment r
equired
 $    14,152 
(a) Lease restoration obligations are accrued in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and 
are not reported as a required minimum lease payment.  
Total rental expense was as follows.
 Year ended Dece
mber 31, 
(in millions) 
    2010 
     2009      2008 
Gross rental expense 
 $ 2,212
  $ 1,884  $ 1,917 
Sublease rental income 
  (545)
   (172)
   (415) 
Net rental expense
  $ 1,667
  $ 1,712  $ 1,502 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
281
Pledged assets  
At December 31, 2010, assets were pledged to collateralize repur-

chase agreements, other securities financing agreements, derivative 

transactions and for other purposes, including to secure borrowings 

and public deposits. Certain of these pledged assets may be sold or 

repledged by the secured parties and are identified as financial 

instruments owned (pledged to various parties) on the Consoli-

dated Balance Sheets. In addition, at December 31, 2010 and 

2009, the Firm had pledged $288.7 billion and $344.6 billion, 

respectively, of financial instruments it owns that may not be sold 

or repledged by the secured parties. The significant components of 

the Firm™s pledged assets were as follows.  
December 31, (in billions) 
    
2010
     2009
Securities 
 $  112.1
 $  155.3
Loans 
  214.8
  285.5
Trading assets and other 
  123
.2  84.6
Total assets pledged
(a)
  $  450.1
 $  525.4
(a) Total assets pledged do not include assets of consolidated VIEs; these assets 
are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. See Note 16 on pages 244Œ
259 of this Annual Report for additional information on assets and liabilities 

of consolidated VIEs.
 Collateral 
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm had accepted assets as 
collateral that it could sell or repledge, deliver or otherwise use 

with a fair value of approximately $655.0 billion and 

$635.6 billion, respectively. This collateral was generally obtained 

under resale agreements, securities borrowing agreements, cus-

tomer margin loans and derivative agreements. Of the collateral 

received, approximately $521.3 billion and $472.7 billion were sold 

or repledged, generally as collateral under repurchase agreements, 

securities lending agreements or to cover short sales and to collat-

eralize deposits and derivative agreements. The reporting of collat-

eral sold or repledged was revised in 2010 to include certain 

securities used to cover short sales and to collateralize deposits and 

derivative agreements. Prior period amounts have been revised to 

conform to the current presentation. This revision had no impact on 

the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or its results of operations. 
Contingencies
 In 2008, the Firm resolved with the IRS issues related to compliance 
with reporting and withholding requirements for certain accounts 

transferred to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (ﬁBNYMﬂ) 

in connection with the Firm™s sale to BNYM of its corporate trust 

business. The resolution of these issues did not have a material 

effect on the Firm. 

 282 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Note 32 Œ Litigation  
As of December 31, 2010, the Firm and its subsidiarie
s are defen-
dants or putative defendants in more than 10,000 legal proceed-
ings, in the form of regulatory/government investigations as well as 

private, civil litigations. The litigations range from individual actions 

involving a single plaintiff to class action lawsuits with potentially 

millions of class members. Investigations involve both formal and 

informal proceedings, by both governmental agencies and self-

regulatory organizations. These legal proceedings are at varying 

stages of adjudication, arbitration or investigation, and involve 

each of the Firm™s lines of business and geographies and a wide 

variety of claims (including common law tort and contract claims 

and statutory antitrust, securities and consumer protection claims), 

some of which present novel claims or legal theories. 
The Firm believes the estimate of the aggregate range of reasona-
bly possible losses, in excess of reserves established, for its legal 

proceedings is from $0 to approximately $4.5 billion at December 

31, 2010. This estimated aggregate range of reasonably possible 

losses is based upon currently available information for those 

proceedings in which the Firm is involved, taking into account the 

Firm™s best estimate of such losses for those cases for which such 

estimate can be made. For certain cases, the Firm does not believe 

that an estimate can currently be made. The Firm™s estimate in-

volves significant judgment, given the varying stages of the pro-

ceedings (including the fact that many of them are currently in 

preliminary stages), the existence of multiple defendants (including 

the Firm) in many of such proceedings whose share of liability has 

yet to be determined, the numerous yet-unresolved issues in many 

of the proceedings (including issues regarding class certification 

and the scope of many of the claims), and the attendant uncer-

tainty of the various potential outcomes of such proceedings. 

Accordingly, the Firm™s estimate will change from time to time, and 

actual losses may be more than the current estimate. 
Set forth below are descriptions of the Firm™s material legal pro-
ceedings. 
Auction-Rate Securities Investigations and Litigation.
 Beginning in 
March 2008, several regulatory authorities initiated investigations 

of a number of industry participants, including the Firm, concerning 

possible state and federal securities law violations in connection 

with the sale of auction-rate securities. The market for many such 

securities had frozen and a significant number of auctions for those 

securities began to fail in February 2008.  
The Firm, on behalf of itself and affiliates, agreed to a settlement in 
principle with the New York Attorney General™s Office which pro-

vided, among other things, that the Firm would offer to purchase at 

par certain auction-rate securities purchased from J.P. Morgan 

Securities LLC (ﬁJPMorgan Securitiesﬂ; formerly J.P. Morgan Securi-

ties Inc.), Chase Investment Services Corp. and Bear, Stearns & Co. 

Inc. by individual investors, charities and small- to medium-sized 

businesses. The Firm also agreed to a substantively similar settle-

ment in principle with the Office of Financial Regulation for the 

State of Florida and the North American Securities Administrator 
Association (ﬁNASAAﬂ) Task Force, which agreed to recommend 

approval of the settlement to all remaining states, Puerto Rico and 

the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Firm has finalized the settlement 

agreements with the New York Attorney General™s Office and the 

Office of Financial Regulation for the State of Florida. The settle-

ment agreements provide for the payment of penalties totaling $25 

million to all states. The Firm is currently in the process of finalizing 

consent agreements with NASAA™s member states; over 40 of these 

consent agreements have been finalized to date. 
The Firm also faces a number of civil actions relating to the Firm™s 
sales of auction-rate securities, including a putative securities class 

action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of 

New York that seeks unspecified damages, and individual arbitrations 

and lawsuits in various forums brought by institutional and individual 

investors that, together, seek damages totaling more than $200 

million relating to the Firm™s sales of auction-rate securities. One 

action is brought by an issuer of auction-rate securities. The actions 

generally allege that the Firm and other firms manipulated the market 

for auction-rate securities by placing bids at auctions that affected 

these securities™ clearing rates or otherwise supported the auctions 

without properly disclosing these activities. Some actions also allege 

that the Firm misrepresented that auction-rate securities were short-

term instruments. The Firm has filed motions to dismiss each of the 

actions, which are being coordinated before the Southern District. 

These motions are currently pending. 
Additionally, the Firm was named in two putative antitrust class 
actions in the United States District Court for the Southern District 

of New York. The actions allege that the Firm, along with numerous 

other financial institution defendants, colluded to maintain and 

stabilize the auction-rate securities market and then to withdraw 

their support for the auction-rate securities market. In January 

2010, the District Court dismissed both actions. The Second Circuit 

Court of Appeals consolidated the two appeals. That appeal is 

currently pending. 
Bear Stearns Hedge Fund Matters.
 Bear Stearns, certain current or 
former subsidiaries of Bear Stearns, including Bear Stearns Asset 

Management, Inc. (ﬁBSAMﬂ) and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., and 

certain current or former Bear Stearns employees are named defen-

dants (collectively the ﬁBear Stearns defendantsﬂ) in multiple civil 

actions and arbitrations relating to alleged losses of more than $1 

billion resulting from the failure of the Bear Stearns High Grade 

Structured Credit Strategies Master Fund, Ltd. (the ﬁHigh Grade 

Fundﬂ) and the Bear Stearns High Grade Structured Credit Strate-

gies Enhanced Leverage Master Fund, Ltd. (the ﬁEnhanced Lever-

age Fundﬂ) (collectively, the ﬁFundsﬂ). BSAM served as investment 

manager for both of the Funds, which were organized such that 

there were U.S. and Cayman Islands ﬁfeeder fundsﬂ that invested 

substantially all their assets, directly or indirectly, in the Funds. The 

Funds are in liquidation. 
There are currently four civil actions pending in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York relating to the 

Funds. Two of these actions involve derivative lawsuits brought on 

behalf of purchasers of partnership interests in the two U.S. feeder 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
283 
funds, alleging that the Bear Stearns defendants mismanaged the 
Funds and made material misrepresentations to and/or withheld 
information from investors in the feeder funds. These actions seek, 

among other things, unspecified compensatory damages based on 

alleged investor losses. The third action, brought by the Joint Vol-

untary Liquidators of the Cayman Islands feeder funds, makes 

allegations similar to those asserted in the derivative lawsuits 

related to the U.S. feeder funds, and seeks compensatory and 

punitive damages. Motions to dismiss in these three cases have 

been granted in part and denied in part. An agreement in principle 

has been reached, pursuant to which BSAM would pay a maximum 

of approximately $19 million to settle the one derivative action 

relating to the feeder fund to the High Grade Fund. BSAM has 

reserved the right not to proceed with this settlement if plaintiff is 

unable to secure the participation of investors whose net contribu-

tions meet a prescribed percentage of the aggregate net contribu-

tions to the High Grade Fund. The agreement in principle remains 

subject to documentation and approval by the Court. Discovery in 

the other two actions is ongoing. 
The fourth action was brought by Bank of America and Banc of 
America Securities LLC (together ﬁBofAﬂ) alleging breach of contract 

and fraud in connection with a May 2007 $4 billion securitization, 

known as a ﬁCDO-squared,ﬂ for which BSAM served as collateral 

manager. This securitization was composed of certain collateralized 

debt obligation (ﬁCDOﬂ) holdings that were purchased by BofA from 

the Funds. Bank of America seeks in excess of $3 billion in damages. 

Defendants™ motion to dismiss in this action was largely denied, an 

amended complaint was filed and discovery is ongoing. 
Bear Stearns Shareholder Litigation and Related Matters.
 Various 
shareholders of Bear Stearns have commenced purported class 

actions against Bear Stearns and certain of its former officers 

and/or directors on behalf of all persons who purchased or other-

wise acquired common stock of Bear Stearns between December 

14, 2006 and March 14, 2008 (the ﬁClass Periodﬂ). During the 

Class Period Bear Stearns had between 115 and 120 million com-

mon shares outstanding, and the price of those securities declined 

from a high of $172.61 to a low of $30 at the end of the period. 

The actions, originally commenced in several federal courts, allege 

that the defendants issued materially false and misleading state-

ments regarding Bear Stearns™ business and financial results and 

that, as a result of those false statements, Bear Stearns™ common 

stock traded at artificially inflated prices during the Class Period. 

Separately, several individual shareholders of Bear Stearns have 

commenced or threatened to commence arbitration proceedings 

and lawsuits asserting claims similar to those in the putative class 

actions. In addition, Bear Stearns and certain of its former officers 

and/or directors have also been named as defendants in a number 

of purported class actions commenced in the United States District 

Court for the Southern District of New York seeking to represent 

the interests of participants in the Bear Stearns Employee Stock 

Ownership Plan (ﬁESOPﬂ) during the time period of December 

2006 to March 2008. These actions, brought under the Employee 

Retirement Income Security Act (ﬁERISAﬂ), allege that defendants 

breached their fiduciary duties to plaintiffs and to the other partici-
pants and beneficiaries of the ESOP by (a) failing to manage pru-

dently the ESOP™s investment in Bear Stearns securities; (b) failing 

to communicate fully and accurately about the risks of the ESOP™s 

investment in Bear Stearns stock; (c) failing to avoid or address 

alleged conflicts of interest; and (d) failing to monitor those who 

managed and administered the ESOP. 
Bear Stearns, former members of Bear Stearns™ Board of Directors 
and certain of Bear Stearns™ former executive officers have also 

been named as defendants in two purported shareholder derivative 

suits, subsequently consolidated into one action, pending in the 

United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. 

Plaintiffs are asserting claims for breach of fiduciary duty, violations 

of federal securities laws, waste of corporate assets and gross 

mismanagement, unjust enrichment, abuse of control and indemni-

fication and contribution in connection with the losses sustained by 

Bear Stearns as a result of its purchases of subprime loans and 

certain repurchases of its own common stock. Certain individual 

defendants are also alleged to have sold their holdings of Bear 

Stearns common stock while in possession of material nonpublic 

information. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages in an unspeci-

fied amount. Plaintiffs later filed a second amended complaint 

asserting, for the first time, purported class action claims, as well as 

new allegations concerning events that took place in March 2008. 
All of the above-described actions filed in federal courts were 
ordered transferred and joined for pre-trial purposes before the 

United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. 

Defendants moved to dismiss the purported securities class action, 

the shareholders™ derivative action and the ERISA action. In January 

2011, the District Court granted the motions to dismiss the deriva-

tive and ERISA actions, and denied the motion as to the securities 

action. Plaintiffs in the derivative action have filed a motion for 

reconsideration of the dismissal. Discovery will now commence in 

the securities action. 
City of Milan Litigation and Criminal Investigation.
 In January 2009, 
the City of Milan, Italy (the ﬁCityﬂ) issued civil proceedings against 

(among others) JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan 

Securities Ltd. (together, ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂ) in the District Court 

of Milan. The proceedings relate to (a) a bond issue by the City in 

June 2005 (the ﬁBondﬂ) and (b) an associated swap transaction, 

which was subsequently restructured on a number of occasions 

between 2005 and 2007 (the ﬁSwapﬂ). The City seeks damages 

and/or other remedies against JPMorgan Chase (among others) on 

the grounds of alleged ﬁfraudulent and deceitful actsﬂ and alleged 

breach of advisory obligations by JPMorgan Chase (among others) 

in connection with the Swap and the Bond, together with related 

swap transactions with other counterparties. The civil proceedings 

continue and there will be an initial hearing on March 9, 2011. 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will seek an adjournment on the 

grounds that it has filed a challenge to the Italian Supreme Court™s 

jurisdiction over JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which has yet to be 

decided. The judge directed four current and former JPMorgan 

Chase personnel and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (as well as other 

individuals and three other banks) to go forward to a full trial that 

 284 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
started in May 2010. Although the Firm is not charged with any 
crime and does not face criminal liability, if one or more of its 
employees were found guilty, the Firm could be subject to adminis-

trative sanctions, including restrictions on its ability to conduct 

business in Italy and monetary penalties. In the initial hearings, the 

City successfully applied to join some of the claims in the civil 

proceedings against the individuals and JPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A. to the criminal proceedings. In addition, a consumer associa-

tion has also been given leave to join the criminal proceedings to 

seek damages from the defendant banks. 
Enron Litigation.
 JPMorgan Chase and certain of its officers and 
directors are involved in several lawsuits that together seek sub-

stantial damages arising out of the Firm™s banking relationships 

with Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries (ﬁEnronﬂ). A number of 

actions and other proceedings against the Firm previously were 

resolved, including a class action lawsuit captioned Newby v. Enron 

Corp. and adversary proceedings brought by Enron™s bankruptcy 

estate. The remaining Enron-related actions include individual 

actions by Enron investors, an action by an Enron counterparty, and 

a purported class action filed on behalf of JPMorgan Chase em-

ployees who participated in the Firm™s 401(k) plan asserting claims 

under the ERISA for alleged breaches of fiduciary duties by JPMor-

gan Chase, its directors and named officers. That action has been 

dismissed, and is on appeal to the United States Court of Appeals 

for the Second Circuit. 
Interchange Litigation.
 A group of merchants has filed a series of 
putative class action complaints in several federal courts. The 

complaints allege that VISA and MasterCard, as well as certain 

other banks and their respective bank holding companies, con-

spired to set the price of credit and debit card interchange fees, 

enacted respective association rules in violation of anti-trust laws, 

and engaged in tying/bundling and exclusive dealing. The com-

plaint seeks unspecified damages and injunctive relief based on the 

theory that interchange would be lower or eliminated but for the 

challenged conduct. Based on publicly available estimates, Visa and 

MasterCard branded payment cards generated approximately $40 

billion of interchange fees industry-wide in 2009. All cases have 

been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Eastern 

District of New York for pretrial proceedings. The Court has dis-

missed all claims relating to periods prior to January 2004. The 

Court has not yet ruled on motions relating to the remainder of the 

case. Fact and expert discovery in the case have closed. The plain-

tiffs have filed a motion seeking class certification, and the defen-

dants have opposed that motion. The Court has not yet ruled on 

the class certification motion. 
In addition to the consolidated class action complaint, plaintiffs 
filed supplemental complaints challenging the initial public offer-

ings (ﬁIPOsﬂ) of MasterCard and Visa (the ﬁIPO Complaintsﬂ). With 

respect to the MasterCard IPO, plaintiffs allege that the offering 

violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act and Section 1 of the Sherman 

Act and that the offering was a fraudulent conveyance. With re-

spect to the Visa IPO, plaintiffs are challenging the Visa IPO on 

antitrust theories parallel to those articulated in the MasterCard 
IPO pleading. Defendants have filed motions to dismiss the IPO 

Complaints. The Court has not yet ruled on those motions.  
Investment Management Litigation.
 Four cases have been filed 
claiming that investment portfolios managed by JPMorgan Invest-

ment Management Inc. (ﬁJPMorgan Investment Managementﬂ) 

were inappropriately invested in securities backed by subprime 

residential real estate collateral. Plaintiffs claim that JPMorgan 

Investment Management and related defendants are liable for 

losses of more than $1 billion in market value of these securities. 

The first case was filed by NM Homes One, Inc. in federal District 

Court in New York, and the Court granted JPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A.™s motion to dismiss nine of plaintiff™s ten causes of action, 

leaving a breach of contract claim. The Court thereafter granted the 

plaintiff™s motion for reconsideration and reinstated the common 

law non-fraud claims for breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, and 

gross negligence. The plaintiff withdrew its claim for negligent 

misrepresentation. The Firm has filed a renewed motion to dismiss 

the common law non-fraud claims and a motion for judgment on 

the pleadings as to the breach of contract claim. In the second 

case, which was filed by Assured Guaranty (U.K.) in New York state 

court, the New York State Appellate Division allowed plaintiff to 

proceed with its claims for breach of fiduciary duty and gross negli-

gence, and for breach of contract based on alleged violations of the 

Delaware Insurance Code. The Firm sought and has obtained leave 

to appeal to the New York State Court of Appeals the decision by 

the Appellate Division to allow the breach of fiduciary duty and 

gross negligence claims to proceed. In the third case, filed by 

Ambac Assurance UK Limited in New York state court, the lower 

court granted JPMorgan Investment Management™s motion to 

dismiss, and plaintiff has filed a notice of appeal. The fourth case 

was filed by CMMF LLP in New York state court; the lower court 

granted JPMorgan Investment Management™s motion to dismiss the 

claims, other than claims for breach of contract and negligent 

misrepresentation. The Appellate Division affirmed the lower 

court™s decision. Plaintiff has since filed an amended complaint 

seeking to assert claims under New York law for breach of fiduciary 

duty, gross negligence, breach of contract and negligent misrepre-

sentation. 
Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy Proceedings.
 In March 2010, the 
Examiner appointed by the Bankruptcy Court presiding over the 

Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings of Lehman Brothers Holdings 

Inc (ﬁLBHIﬂ) and several of its subsidiaries (collectively, ﬁLehmanﬂ) 

released a report as to his investigation into Lehman™s failure and 

related matters. The Examiner concluded that one common law 

claim potentially could be asserted against the Firm for contributing 

to Lehman™s failure, though he characterized the claim as ﬁnot 

strong.ﬂ The Examiner also opined that certain cash and securities 

collateral provided by LBHI to the Firm in the weeks and days 

preceding LBHI™s demise potentially could be challenged under the 

Bankruptcy Code™s fraudulent conveyance or preference provisions, 

though the Firm is of the view that its right to such collateral is 

protected by the Bankruptcy Code™s safe harbor provisions. In May 

2010, LBHI and its Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors filed 

an adversary proceeding against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in the 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
285 
United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New 
York. The complaint asserts both federal bankruptcy law and state 
common law claims, and seeks, among other relief, to recover $8.6 

billion in collateral that was transferred to JPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A. in the week preceding LBHI™s bankruptcy. The complaint also 

seeks unspecified damages on the grounds that JPMorgan Chase 

Bank, N.A.™s collateral requests hastened LBHI™s demise. The Firm 

has moved to dismiss plaintiffs™ amended complaint in its entirety. 

The Firm also filed counterclaims against LBHI alleging that LBHI 

fraudulently induced the Firm to make large clearing advances to 

Lehman against inappropriate collateral, which left the Firm with 

more than $25 billion in claims against the estate of Lehman's 

broker-dealer, which could be unpaid if the Firm is required to 

return any collateral to Lehman. The case is in the early stages, 

with a trial scheduled for 2012. In addition, the Firm may also face 

claims in the liquidation proceeding pending before the same 

Bankruptcy Court under the Securities Investor Protection Act 

(ﬁSIPAﬂ) for LBHI™s U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, Lehman Brothers 

Inc. (ﬁLBIﬂ). The SIPA Trustee has advised the Firm that certain of 

the securities and cash pledged as collateral for the Firm™s claims 

against LBI may be customer property free from any security inter-

est in favor of the Firm. The Firm has also responded to various 

regulatory inquiries regarding the Lehman matter. 
Madoff Litigation.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., JPMorgan Chase Bank, 
N.A., JPMorgan Securities LLC, and JPMorgan Securities Ltd. have 

been named as defendants in a lawsuit brought by the trustee for 

the liquidation of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (the 

ﬁTrusteeﬂ). The Trustee asserts 28 causes of action against JPMor-

gan Chase, 16 of which seek to avoid certain transfers (direct or 

indirect) made to JPMorgan Chase that are alleged to have been 

preferential or fraudulent under the federal Bankruptcy Code and 

the New York Debtor and Creditor Law. The remaining causes of 

action are for, among other things, aiding and abetting fraud, 

aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, conversion and unjust 

enrichment. The complaint generally alleges that JPMorgan Chase, 

as Madoff™s long-time bank, facilitated the maintenance of Mad-

off™s Ponzi scheme and overlooked signs of wrongdoing in order to 

obtain profits and fees. The complaint purports to seek approxi-

mately $6 billion in damages from JPMorgan Chase, and to recover 

approximately $425 million in transfers that JPMorgan Chase 

allegedly received directly or indirectly from Bernard Madoff™s 

brokerage firm. JPMorgan Chase has filed a motion to return the 

case from the Bankruptcy Court to the District Court, and intends to 

seek the dismissal of all or most of the Trustee™s claims once that 

motion is decided. 
Separately, J.P. Morgan Trust Company (Cayman) Limited, JPMor-
gan (Suisse) SA, and J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd. have been named 

as defendants in several suits in Bankruptcy Court and state and 

federal courts in New York arising out of the liquidation proceed-

ings of Fairfield Sentry Limited and Fairfield Sigma Limited (to-

gether, ﬁFairfieldﬂ), so-called Madoff feeder funds. These actions 

advance theories of mistake and restitution and seek to recover 

payments previously made to defendants by the funds totaling 

approximately $140 million. 
Mortgage-Backed Securities Litigation and Regulatory Investiga-
tions.
 JPMorgan Chase and affiliates, Bear Stearns and affiliates 
and Washington Mutual and affiliates have been named as defen-

dants in a number of cases in their various roles as issuer and/or 

underwriter in mortgage-backed securities (ﬁMBSﬂ) offerings. 

These cases include purported class action suits, actions by individ-

ual purchasers of securities and actions by insurance companies 

that guaranteed payments of principal and interest for particular 

tranches. Although the allegations vary by lawsuit, these cases 

generally allege that the offering documents for more than $100 

billion of securities issued by dozens of securitization trusts con-

tained material misrepresentations and omissions, including state-

ments regarding the underwriting standards pursuant to which the 

underlying mortgage loans were issued. 
In the actions against the Firm as an MBS issuer (and, in some 
cases, also as an underwriter of its own MBS offerings), three 

purported class actions are pending against JPMorgan Chase and 

Bear Stearns, and/or certain of their affiliates and current and 

former employees, in the United States District Courts for the 

Eastern and Southern Districts of New York. Defendants have 

moved to dismiss these actions. In addition, Washington Mutual 

affiliates, WaMu Asset Acceptance Corp. and WaMu Capital Corp., 

are defendants, along with certain former officers or directors of 

WaMu Asset Acceptance Corp., have been named as defendants in 

three now-consolidated purported class action cases pending in the 

Western District of Washington. Defendants™ motion to dismiss was 

granted in part to dismiss all claims relating to MBS offerings in 

which a named plaintiff was not a purchaser. Discovery is ongoing. 
In other actions brought against the Firm as an MBS issuer (and, in 
some cases, also as an underwriter) certain JPMorgan Chase enti-

ties, several Bear Stearns entities, and certain Washington Mutual 

affiliates are defendants in nine separate individual actions com-

menced by the Federal Home Loan Banks of Pittsburgh, Seattle, 

San Francisco, Chicago, Indianapolis and Atlanta in various state 

courts around the country; and certain JPMorgan Chase, Bear 

Stearns and Washington Mutual entities are also among the defen-

dants named in separate individual actions commenced by Cam-

bridge Place Investment Management Inc. in Massachusetts state 

court, by The Charles Schwab Corporation in state court in Califor-

nia and by Allstate in state court in New York. 
EMC Mortgage Corporation (ﬁEMCﬂ), a subsidiary of JPMorgan 
Chase, is a defendant in four pending actions commenced by bond 

insurers that guaranteed payments of principal and interest on 

approximately $3.6 billion of certain classes of seven different MBS 

offerings sponsored by EMC. Three of those actions, commenced by 

Assured Guaranty Corp., Ambac Assurance Corporation and Syn-

cora Guarantee, Inc., respectively, are pending in the United States 

District Court for the Southern District of New York. The fourth 

action, commenced by CIFG Assurance North America, Inc., is 

pending in state court in Texas. In each action, plaintiff claims that 

the underlying mortgage loans had origination defects that pur-

portedly violate certain representations and warranties given by 

EMC to plaintiffs, and that EMC has breached the relevant agree-

 286 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
ments between the parties by failing to repurchase allegedly defec-
tive mortgage loans. Each action seeks unspecified damages and 
an order compelling EMC to repurchase those loans. 
In the actions against the Firm solely as an underwriter of other 
issuers™ MBS offerings, the Firm has contractual rights to indemnifi-

cation from the issuers, but those indemnity rights may prove 

effectively unenforceable where the issuers are now defunct, such 

as affiliates of IndyMac Bancorp (ﬁIndyMac Trustsﬂ) and Thornburg 

Mortgage (ﬁThornburgﬂ). With respect to the IndyMac Trusts, 

JPMorgan Securities, along with numerous other underwriters and 

individuals, is named as a defendant, both in its own capacity and 

as successor to Bear Stearns in a purported class action pending in 

the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 

York brought on behalf of purchasers of securities in various Indy-

Mac Trust MBS offerings. The Court in that action has dismissed 

claims as to certain such securitizations, including all offerings in 

which no named plaintiff purchased securities, and allowed claims 

as to other offerings to proceed. Plaintiffs™ motion to certify a class 

of investors in certain offerings is pending, and discovery is ongo-

ing. In addition, JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Chase are 

named as defendants in an individual action filed by the Federal 

Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh in connection with a single offering 

by an affiliate of IndyMac Bancorp. Discovery in that action is 

ongoing. Separately, JPMorgan Securities, as successor to Bear, 

Stearns & Co. Inc., along with other underwriters and certain 

individuals, are defendants in an action pending in state court in 

California brought by MBIA Insurance Corp. (ﬁMBIAﬂ). The action 

relates to certain securities issued by IndyMac trusts in offerings in 

which Bear Stearns was an underwriter, and as to which MBIA 

provided guaranty insurance policies. MBIA purports to be subro-

gated to the rights of the MBS holders, and seeks recovery of sums 

it has paid and will pay pursuant to those policies. Discovery is 

ongoing. With respect to Thornburg, a Bear Stearns subsidiary is a 

named defendant in a purported class action pending in the United 

States District Court for the District of New Mexico along with a 

number of other financial institutions that served as depositors 

and/or underwriters for three Thornburg MBS offerings. 
In addition to the above-described litigation, the Firm has also 
received, and responded to, a number of subpoenas and informal 

requests for information from federal authorities concerning mort-

gage-related matters, including inquiries concerning a number of 

transactions involving the Firm™s underwriting and issuance of MBS 

and its participation in offerings of certain collateralized debt 

obligations. 
In addition to the above mortgage-related matters, the Firm is now a 
defendant in an action commenced by Deutsche Bank, described in 

more detail below with respect to the Washington Mutual Litigations.  
Mortgage Foreclosure Investigations and Litigation. 
Multiple state 
and federal officials have announced investigations into the proce-

dures followed by mortgage servicing companies and banks, includ-

ing JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its affiliates, relating to foreclosure 

and loss mitigation processes. The Firm is cooperating with these 

investigations, and these investigations could result in material fines, 
penalties, equitable remedies (including requiring default servicing or 

other process changes), or other enforcement actions, as well as 

significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations 

and additional litigation. Three purported class action lawsuits have 

also been filed against the Firm relating to its mortgage foreclosure 

procedures. 
These investigations and actions follow the Firm™s decision in late 
September 2010 to commence a temporary suspension of obtaining 

mortgage foreclosure judgments in the states and territories that 

require a judicial foreclosure process. Subsequently, the Firm ex-

tended this temporary suspension to foreclosure sales in those 

states and territories that require a judicial foreclosure process, and 

to foreclosures and foreclosure sales in the majority of remaining 

states where a judicial process is not required, but where affidavits 

signed by Firm personnel may have been used as part of the fore-

closure process. In mid-October, the Firm also temporarily sus-

pended evictions in the states and territories in which it had 

suspended foreclosures and foreclosure sales, as well as in certain 

additional states in which an affidavit signed by Firm personnel may 

have been used in connection with eviction proceedings. 
The Firm™s temporary suspension arose out of certain questions 
about affidavits of indebtedness prepared by local foreclosure 

counsel, signed by Firm employees and filed or used in mortgage 

foreclosure proceedings in certain states. Although the Firm be-

lieves, based on its work to date, that the statements in those 

affidavits of indebtedness regarding the fact of default and amount 

of indebtedness were materially accurate, in certain instances, the 

underlying review and verification of this information was per-

formed by Firm personnel other than the affiants, or the affidavits 

may not have been properly notarized. 
As of January 2011, the Firm has resumed initiation of new foreclo-
sure proceedings in nearly all states in which it had previously 

suspended such proceedings, utilizing revised procedures in con-

nection with the execution of affidavits and other documents used 

by Firm employees in the foreclosure process. The Firm is also in the 

process of reviewing pending foreclosure matters in these states to 

determine whether remediation of specific documentation is neces-

sary, and intends to resume pending foreclosures as the review, 

and if necessary, remediation, of each pending matter is completed. 

The Firm intends to begin taking these same actions in all remain-

ing states in the near future. 
Municipal Derivatives Investigations and Litigation.
 The Department 
of Justice (in conjunction with the Internal Revenue Service), the 

Securities and Exchange Commission (ﬁSECﬂ), a group of state 

attorneys general and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 

(ﬁOCCﬂ) have been investigating JPMorgan Chase and Bear 

Stearns for possible antitrust, securities and tax-related violations in 

connection with the bidding or sale of guaranteed investment 

contracts and derivatives to municipal issuers. The Philadelphia 

Office of the SEC provided notice to JPMorgan Securities that it 

intends to recommend that the SEC bring civil charges in connec-

tion with its investigation. JPMorgan Securities has responded to 

that notice, as well as to a separate notice that that Philadelphia 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
287 
Office of the SEC provided to Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. The Firm has 
been cooperating with all of these investigations, and is seeking to 
resolve them on a negotiated basis. 
Purported class action lawsuits and individual actions (the ﬁMunici-
pal Derivatives Actionsﬂ) have been filed against JPMorgan Chase 

and Bear Stearns, as well as numerous other providers and brokers, 

alleging antitrust violations in the reportedly $100 billion to $300 

billion annual market for financial instruments related to municipal 

bond offerings referred to collectively as ﬁmunicipal derivatives.ﬂ 

The Municipal Derivatives Actions have been consolidated in the 

United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. 

The Court denied in part and granted in part defendants™ motions 

to dismiss the purported class and individual actions, permitting 

certain claims to proceed against the Firm and others under federal 

and California state antitrust laws and under the California false 

claims act. Subsequently, a number of additional individual actions 

asserting substantially similar claims, including claims under New 

York and West Virginia state antitrust statutes, were filed against 

JPMorgan Chase, Bear Stearns and numerous other defendants. 

Most of these cases have been coordinated for pretrial purposes in 

the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 

York. The Firm is seeking to have the balance of these cases coor-

dinated before the same court. Discovery is ongoing. 
Following JPMorgan Securities™ settlement with the SEC in connec-
tion with certain Jefferson County, Alabama (the ﬁCountyﬂ) war-

rant underwritings and swap transactions, the County filed a 

complaint against the Firm and several other defendants in the 

Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama. The suit alleges that 

the Firm made payments to certain third parties in exchange for 

being chosen to underwrite more than $3 billion in warrants issued 

by the County and chosen as the counterparty for certain swaps 

executed by the County. In its complaint, Jefferson County alleges 

that the Firm concealed these third-party payments and that, but 

for this concealment, the County would not have entered into the 

transactions. The County further alleges that the transactions 

increased the risks of its capital structure and that, following the 

downgrade of certain insurers that insured the warrants, the 

County™s interest obligations increased and the principal due on a 

portion of its outstanding warrants was accelerated. The Court 

denied the Firm™s motion to dismiss the complaint. The Firm filed a 

mandamus petition with the Alabama Supreme Court, seeking 

immediate appellate review of this decision. The petition is now 

fully briefed and all proceedings have been stayed pending adjudi-

cation of the petition. 
A putative class action was filed on behalf of sewer ratepayers 
against JPMorgan Chase and Bear Stearns and numerous other 

defendants, based on substantially the same alleged conduct 

described above. The Firm™s motion to dismiss the complaint for 

lack of standing was denied in January 2011. 
Two insurance companies that guaranteed the payment of principal 
and interest on warrants issued by Jefferson County have filed sepa-

rate actions against JPMorgan Chase (and one of the insurers has 

also named Jefferson County) in New York state court asserting that 
defendants fraudulently misled them into issuing the insurance cover-

age, based upon substantially the same alleged conduct described 

above and other alleged non-disclosures. One insurer claims that it 

insured an aggregate principal amount of nearly $1.2 billion in war-

rants, and seeks unspecified damages in excess of $400 million, as 

well as unspecified punitive damages. The other insurer claims that it 

insured an aggregate principal amount of more than $378 million 

and seeks recovery of $4 million that it alleges it paid under the 

policies to date as well as any payments it will make in the future and 

unspecified punitive damages. In December 2010, the court denied 

the Firm™s motions to dismiss each of the complaints and the parties 

are currently engaged in discovery. 
The Alabama Public Schools and College Authority (ﬁAPSCAﬂ) 
brought a declaratory judgment action in the United States District 

Court for the Northern District of Alabama claiming that certain 

interest rate swaption transactions entered into with JPMorgan 

Chase Bank, N.A. are void on the grounds that the APSCA purport-

edly did not have the authority to enter into the transactions or, 

alternatively, are voidable at the APSCA™s option because of its 

alleged inability to issue refunding bonds in relation to the swaption. 

The action was settled in December 2010 for a payment by APSCA 

to the Firm and, pursuant to the settlement, the court dismissed the 

action by order dated December 27, 2010. 
Overdraft Fee/Debit Posting Order Litigation.
 JPMorgan Chase Bank, 
N.A. has been named as a defendant in several purported class 

actions relating to its practices in posting debit card transactions to 

customers™ deposit accounts. Plaintiffs allege that the Firm improperly 

re-ordered debit card transactions from the highest amount to lowest 

amount before processing these transactions in order to generate 

unwarranted overdraft fees. Plaintiffs contend that the Firm should 

have processed such transactions in the chronological order they were 

authorized. Plaintiffs seek the disgorgement of all overdraft fees paid 

to the Firm by plaintiffs, since approximately 2003, as a result of the 

re-ordering of debit card transactions. The claims against the Firm 

have been consolidated with numerous complaints against other 

national banks in Multi-District Litigation pending in the United States 

District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The Firm™s motion to 

compel arbitration of certain plaintiffs™ claims was denied by the 

District Court. That ruling is currently on appeal. Discovery is proceed-

ing in the District Court. Plaintiffs™ motion for class certification is due 

to be filed in April 2011. 
Petters Bankruptcy and Related Matters.
 JPMorgan Chase and certain 
of its affiliates, including One Equity Partners, LLC (ﬁOEPﬂ), have 

been named as defendants in several actions filed in connection with 

the receivership and bankruptcy proceedings pertaining to Thomas J. 

Petters and certain entities affiliated with Petters (collectively, ﬁPet-

tersﬂ) and the Polaroid Corporation. The principal actions against 

JPMorgan Chase and its affiliates have been brought by the receiver 

and bankruptcy trustee for Petters and generally seek to avoid, on 

fraudulent transfer and preference grounds, certain purported trans-

fers in connection with (i) the 2005 acquisition of Polaroid by Petters, 

which at the time was majority-owned by OEP; (ii) two credit facilities 

that JPMorgan Chase and other financial institutions entered into 

 288 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
with Polaroid; and (iii) a credit line and investment accounts held by 
Petters. The actions collectively seek recovery of approximately $450 
million. 
Securities Lending Litigation.
 JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. has been 
named as a defendant in four putative class actions asserting ERISA 

and other claims pending in the United States District Court for the 

Southern District of New York brought by participants in the Firm™s 

securities lending business. A fifth lawsuit was filed in New York 

state court by an individual participant in the program. Three of the 

purported class actions, which have been consolidated, relate to 

investments of approximately $500 million in medium-term notes 

of Sigma Finance Inc. (ﬁSigmaﬂ). In August 2010, the Court certi-

fied a plaintiff class consisting of all securities lending participants 

that held Sigma medium-term notes on September 30, 2008, 

including those that held the notes by virtue of participation in the 

investment of cash collateral through a collective fund, as well as 

those that held the notes by virtue of the investment of cash collat-

eral through individual accounts. All discovery has been completed. 

The Court has set a schedule for filing summary judgment briefs, 

pursuant to which the Firm™s motion is to be fully briefed by April 

2011. The fourth putative class action concerns investments of approxi-
mately $500 million in Lehman Brothers medium-term notes. The 

Firm has moved to dismiss the amended complaint and is awaiting 

a decision. The Magistrate Judge ordered discovery to proceed 

while the motion is pending, but this ruling is on appeal to the 

District Judge and also is awaiting a decision. The New York state 

court action, which is not a class action, concerns the plaintiff™s 

alleged loss of money in both Sigma and Lehman Brothers medium-

term notes. The Firm has answered the complaint. The Court de-

nied the Firm™s motion to stay this action pending resolution of the 

proceedings in federal court
, 
and discovery has commenced. 
Service Members Civil Relief Act and Housing and Economic Recov-
ery Act Investigations and Litigation. 
Multiple government officials 
have announced their intent to commence, or have commenced, 

inquiries into the Firm™s procedures related to the Service Members 

Civil Relief Act (ﬁSCRAﬂ) and the Housing and Economic Recovery 

Act of 2008 (ﬁHERAﬂ). These inquiries have been prompted by the 

Firm™s public statements about its SCRA and HERA compliance and 

actions to remedy certain instances in which the Firm mistakenly 

charged active or recently-active military personnel mortgage 

interest and fees in excess of that permitted by SCRA and HERA, 

and in a number of instances, foreclosed on borrowers protected by 

SCRA and HERA. The Firm has implemented a number of proce-

dural enhancements and controls to strengthen its SCRA and HERA 

compliance and is still reviewing the circumstances under which 

these issues arose. In addition, an individual borrower has filed a 

purported nationwide class action in United States District Court for 

South Carolina against the Firm alleging violations of the SCRA.  
 Washington Mutual Litigations. 
Subsequent to JPMorgan Chase™s 
acquisition from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

(ﬁFDICﬂ) of substantially all of the assets and certain specified 

liabilities of Washington Mutual Bank, Henderson Nevada (ﬁWash-
ington Mutual Bankﬂ), in September 2008, Washington Mutual 

Bank™s parent holding company, Washington Mutual, Inc. (ﬁWMIﬂ) 

and its wholly-owned subsidiary, WMI Investment Corp. (together, 

the ﬁDebtorsﬂ), both commenced voluntary cases under Chapter 11 

of Title 11 of the United States Code in the United States Bank-

ruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the ﬁBankruptcy Caseﬂ). 

In the Bankruptcy Case, the Debtors have asserted rights and 

interests in certain assets. The assets in dispute include principally 

the following: (a) approximately $4 billion in trust securities con-

tributed by WMI to Washington Mutual Bank (the ﬁTrust Securi-

tiesﬂ); (b) the right to tax refunds arising from overpayments 

attributable to operations of Washington Mutual Bank and its 

subsidiaries; (c) ownership of and other rights in approximately $4 

billion that WMI contends are deposit accounts at Washington 

Mutual Bank and one of its subsidiaries; and (d) ownership of and 

rights in various other contracts and other assets (collectively, the 

ﬁDisputed Assetsﬂ). 
WMI, JPMorgan Chase and the FDIC have since been involved in 
litigations over these and other claims pending in the Bankruptcy 

Court and the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. 
In May 2010, WMI, JPMorgan Chase and the FDIC announced a 
global settlement agreement among themselves and significant 

creditor groups (the ﬁGlobal Settlement Agreementﬂ). The Global 

Settlement Agreement is incorporated into WMI™s proposed Chapter 

11 plan (ﬁthe Planﬂ) that has been submitted to the Bankruptcy 

Court. If approved by the Bankruptcy Court, the Global Settlement 

would resolve numerous disputes among WMI, JPMorgan Chase, the 

FDIC in its capacity as receiver for Washington Mutual Bank and the 

FDIC in its corporate capacity, as well as those of significant creditor 

groups, including disputes relating to the Disputed Assets. 
Other proceedings related to Washington Mutual™s failure are also 
pending before the Bankruptcy Court. Among other actions, in July 

2010, certain holders of the Trust Securities commenced an adver-

sary proceeding in the Bankruptcy Court against JPMorgan Chase, 

WMI, and other entities seeking, among other relief, a declaratory 

judgment that WMI and JPMorgan Chase do not have any right, 

title or interest in the Trust Securities. In early January 2011, the 

Bankruptcy Court granted summary judgment to JPMorgan Chase 

and denied summary judgment to the plaintiffs in the Trust Securi-

ties adversary proceeding.  
The Bankruptcy Court considered confirmation of the Plan, including 
the Global Settlement Agreement, in hearings in early December 

2010. In early January 2011, the Bankruptcy Court issued an opinion 

in which it concluded that the Global Settlement Agreement is fair 

and reasonable, but that the Plan cannot be confirmed until the 

parties correct certain deficiencies, which include the scope of re-

leases. None of these deficiencies relate to the Disputed Assets. The 

Equity Committee has filed a petition seeking a direct appeal to the 

United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit from so much of 

the Bankruptcy Court™s ruling that found the settlement to be fair and 

reasonable. A revised Plan was filed with the Bankruptcy Court in 

February 2011, and the Bankruptcy Court has scheduled a hearing for 

May 2, 2011. If the Global Settlement is effected and the Plan is 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report  
289 
confirmed, the Firm currently estimates it will not incur additional 
obligations beyond those already reflected in its liabilities for the 
numerous disputes covered by the Global Settlement.  
Other proceedings related to Washington Mutual™s failure are 
pending before the United States District Court for the District of 

Columbia include a lawsuit brought by Deutsche Bank National 

Trust Company, initially against the FDIC, asserting an estimated $6 

billion to $10 billion in damages based upon alleged breach of 

various mortgage securitization agreements and alleged violation of 

certain representations and warranties given by certain WMI sub-

sidiaries in connection with those securitization agreements. 

Deutsche Bank filed an amended complaint in August 2010, adding 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a party. The amended complaint 

includes assertions that JPMorgan Chase may have assumed liabili-

ties relating to the mortgage securitization agreements. In Novem-

ber 2010, JPMorgan Chase and the FDIC moved to dismiss the 

complaint. JPMorgan Chase also moved for a partial summary 

judgment holding that the FDIC retained liability for Deutsche 

Bank™s claims.  
In addition, JPMorgan Chase was sued in an action originally filed 
in State District Court in Texas (the ﬁTexas Actionﬂ) by certain 

holders of WMI common stock and debt of WMI and Washington 

Mutual Bank who seek unspecified damages alleging that JPMor-

gan Chase acquired substantially all of the assets of Washington 

Mutual Bank from the FDIC at an allegedly too-low price. The Texas 

Action was transferred to the United States District Court for the 

District of Columbia, which ultimately granted JPMorgan Chase™s 

and the FDIC™s motions to dismiss the complaint. Plaintiffs have 

appealed this dismissal to the United States Court of Appeals for 

the District of Columbia Circuit. Oral argument is currently sched-

uled for April 5, 2011. 
 *   *   * 
In addition to the various legal proceedings discussed above, JPMor-
gan Chase and its subsidiaries are named as defendants or otherwise 

involved in a substantial number of other legal proceedings. The Firm 

believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it 

in its currently outstanding legal proceedings and it intends to defend 

itself vigorously in all such matters. Additional legal proceedings may 

be initiated from time to time in the future. 
The Firm has established reserves for several hundred of its cur-

rently outstanding legal proceedings. The Firm accrues for potential 

liability arising from such proceedings when it is probable that such 

liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be rea-

sonably estimated. The Firm evaluates its outstanding legal pro-

ceedings each quarter to assess its litigation reserves, and makes 

adjustments in such reserves, upwards or downwards, as appropri-

ate, based on management™s best judgment after consultation with 

counsel. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the 

Firm incurred $7.4 billion and $161 million, respectively, of litiga-

tion expense. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Firm 

recorded a net benefit of $781 million to litigation expense. There 

is no assurance that the Firm™s litigation reserves will not need to 

be adjusted in the future. 
In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal 
proceedings, particularly where the claimants seek very large or 

indeterminate damages, or where the matters present novel legal 

theories, involve a large number of parties or are in early stages of 

discovery, the Firm cannot state with confidence what the eventual 

outcome of the currently pending matters will be, what the timing 

of the ultimate resolution of these pending matters will be or what 

the eventual loss, fines, penalties or impact related to each cur-

rently pending matter may be. JPMorgan Chase believes, based 

upon its current knowledge, after consultation with counsel and 

after taking into account its current litigation reserves, that the 

legal proceedings currently pending against it should not have a 

material adverse effect on the Firm™s consolidated financial condi-

tion. The Firm notes, however, that in light of the uncertainties 

involved in such proceedings, there is no assurance the ultimate 

resolution of these matters will not significantly exceed the reserves 

currently accrued by the Firm; as a result, the outcome of a particu-

lar matter may be material to JPMorgan Chase™s operating results 

for a particular period, depending on, among other factors, the size 

of the loss or liability imposed and the level of JPMorgan Chase™s 

income for that period. 

 290 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
Note 33 Œ International operations  
The following table presents income statementŒrelated
 information 
for JPMorgan Chase by major international geographic area. The 
Firm defines international activities as business transactions that 

involve customers residing outside of the U.S., and the information 

presented below is based primarily upon the domicile of the cus-

tomer, the location from which the customer relationship is man-

aged or the location of the trading desk. However, many of the 

Firm™s U.S. operations serve international businesses. 
As the Firm™s operations are highly integrated, estimates and sub-

jective assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and 

expense between U.S. and international operations. These esti-

mates and assumptions are consistent with the allocations used for 

the Firm™s segment reporting as set forth in Note 34 on pages 290Œ

293 of this Annual Report.  
The Firm™s long-lived assets for the periods presented are not 
considered by management to be significant in relation to total 

assets. The majority of the Firm™s long-lived assets are located in 

the United States. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions)   Revenue
(a)
   Expense
(b)
 Income 
(loss
) before income 
tax expense/(benefit)  
and extraordinary gain     Net income
     Average assets
 2010
      Europe/Middle East and Africa 
 $ 14,113
  $ 8,
712
  $ 5,
401
  $   
3,
655
  $   
 425
,374
 Asia and Pacific 
5,791
 3,577
 2,214
 1,
470
 13
4,
787
 Latin America and the Caribbean 
1,810
 1,152
 658
 395
 30,
021
 Other 
510
 413
 97
 59
 6,579
 Total international
 22,224
 13,854
 8,370
 5,
579
 596
,761
 Total U.S. 
80,470
 63,
981
 16,489
 11,791
 1,
456
,490
 Total
  
 $ 102,694
  $ 77,835
  $ 24,859
  $ 17,370
 $ 2,053,2
51
 2009
      
Europe/Middle East and Africa
  $ 16,915
  $ 8,610
  $ 8,305
  $  
  5,485
  $  
   
 383,
003
 Asia and Pacific
 5,088
 3,438
 1,650
 1,119
 100,
932
 Latin America and the Caribbean
 1,982
 1,112
 870
 513
 23,227
 Other
 659
 499
 160
 105
 7,074
 Total internati
onal
 24,644 
13,659 
10,985 
7,222
 514,236
 Total U.S.
 75,790
 70,708
 5,082
 4,506
 1,509,
965
 Total
  
 $ 100,434 
 $ 84,367 
 $ 16,067 
 $  11,728
 $   2,024,201
 2008
   
   Europe/Middle East and Africa
  $ 11,449
  $ 8,403
  $ 3,046
  $   
 2,483
  $    
  352,
558
 Asia 
and Pacific
   4,097
 3,580
 517
 672
 108,
751
 Latin America and the Caribbean
   1,353
 903
 450
 274
 30,
940
 Other
   499
 410
 89
 21
 6,
553
 Total international
   17,398 
13,296 
4,102 
3,450
 498,802
 Total U.S.
   49,854
 51,183
 (1,329)
 2,155
 1,292,
815
 Total
  
 $ 67,252 
 $ 64,479 
 $ 2,773 
 $    5,605
 $   1,791,617
 (a) Revenue is composed of net interest income and noninterest revenue.  
(b) Expense is composed of noninterest expense and the provision for credit losses.  
Note 34 Œ Business segments 
The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis. Ther
e are six major 
reportable business segments Š Investment Bank, Retail Financial 
Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Ser-

vices and Asset Management, as well as a Corporate/Private Equity 

segment. The business segments are determined based on the products 

and services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the 

manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by manage-

ment. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed 

basis. For a definition of managed basis, see Explanation and Reconcilia-

tion of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measures, on pages 64Œ65 

of this Annual Report. For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan 

Chase™s business segments, see Business segment results on pages 67Œ

68 of this Annual Report.  
The following is a description of each of the Firm™s business segments: 
 Investment Bank 
 J.P. Morgan is one of the world™s leading investment banks, with 

deep client relationships and broad product capabilities. The clients 

of IB are corporations, financial institutions, governments and 

institutional investors. The Firm offers a full range of investment 

banking products and services in all major capital markets, includ-

ing advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital-raising in 

equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk management, market-

making in cash securities and derivative instruments, prime broker-

age, and research.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
291
Retail Financial Services 
 RFS serves consumers and businesses through personal service at 
bank branches and through ATMs, online banking and telephone 

banking, as well as through auto dealerships and school financial-

aid offices. Customers can use more than 5,200 bank branches 

(third-largest nationally) and 16,100 ATMs (second-largest nation-

ally), as well as online and mobile banking around the clock. More 

than 28,900 branch salespeople assist customers with checking 

and savings accounts, mortgages, home equity and business loans, 

and investments across the 23-state footprint from New York and 

Florida to California. Consumers also can obtain loans through 

more than 16,200 auto dealerships and 2,200 schools and universi-

ties nationwide. 
Card Services  
CS is one of the nation™s largest credit card issuers, with over $137 

billion in loans and over 90 million open accounts. Customers used 

Chase cards to meet $313 billion of their spending needs in 2010. 

Through its merchant acquiring business, Chase Paymentech Solu-

tions, CS is a global leader in payment processing and merchant 

acquiring. 
Commercial Banking  
CB delivers extensive industry knowledge, local expertise and dedi-

cated service to nearly 24,000 clients nationally, including corpora-

tions, municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profit entities 

with annual revenue generally ranging from $10 million to $2 billion, 

and nearly 35,000 real estate investors/owners. CB partners with the 

Firm™s other businesses to provide comprehensive solutions, including 

lending, treasury services, investment banking and asset manage-

ment to meet its clients™ domestic and international financial needs.  
Treasury & Securities Services 
 TSS is a global leader in transaction, investment and information 
services. TSS is one of the world™s largest cash management pro-

viders and a leading global custodian. Treasury Services (ﬁTSﬂ) 

provides cash management, trade, wholesale card and liquidity 

products and services to small- and mid-sized companies, multina-

tional corporations, financial institutions and government entities. 

TS partners with IB, CB, RFS and AM businesses to serve clients 

firmwide. Certain TS revenue is included in other segments™ results. 
Worldwide Securities Services holds, values, clears and services 

securities, cash and alternative investments for investors and bro-

ker-dealers, and manages depositary receipt programs globally.  
Asset Management 
 AM, with assets under supervision of $1.8 trillion, is a global leader in 
investment and wealth management. AM clients include institutions, 

retail investors and high-net-worth individuals in every major market 

throughout the world. AM offers global investment management in 

equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity and 

liquidity products, including money-market instruments and bank 

deposits. AM also provides trust and estate, banking and brokerage 

services to high-net-worth clients, and retirement services for corpora-

tions and individuals. The majority of AM™s client assets are in ac-

tively managed portfolios.  
Corporate/Private Equity 
The Corporate/Private Equity sector comprises Private Equity, 

Treasury, the Chief Investment Office, corporate staff units and 

expense that is centrally managed. Treasury and the Chief Invest-

ment Office manage capital, liquidity, and structural risks of the 

Firm. The corporate staff units include Central Technology and 

Operations, Internal Audit, Executive Office, Finance, Human Re-

sources, Marketing & Communications, Legal & Compliance, Cor-

porate Real Estate and General Services, Risk Management, 

Corporate Responsibility and Strategy & Development. Other cen-

trally managed expense includes the Firm™s occupancy and pension-

related expense, net of allocations to the business.  
Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm enhanced its line-of-business equity 
framework to better align equity assigned to each line of business with 

changes anticipated to occur in the business and in the competitive and 

regulatory landscape. The lines of business are now capitalized based 

on the Tier 1 common standard, rather than the Tier 1 capital standard. 

Line-of-business equity increased during the second quarter of 2008 in 

IB and AM due to the Bear Stearns merger and for AM, the purchase of 

the additional equity interest in Highbridge. At the end of the third 

quarter of 2008, equity was increased for each line of business with a 

view toward the future implementation of the new Basel II capital 

rules. In addition, equity allocated to RFS, CS and CB was increased as 

a result of the Washington Mutual transaction. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
292
Segment results 
The following table provides a summary of the Firm™s segment results for 2010, 2009 and 2008 on a managed basis. Prior to the January 1, 2010, 
adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs, the impact of credit card securitization adjustments had been included in reconciling items so 
that the total Firm results are on a reported basis. Finally, total net revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the segments 

is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits are presented in 

the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments. This approach allows management to assess the comparability 

of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within 

income tax expense/(benefit). 
 Segment results and reconciliation
(a)
  
(table continued on next page) 
Year ended December 31, 
Investment  
Bank 
 Retail Financial  
Services 
 Card  
Services
(f)
    Commercial  
   Banking  
(in millions, except ratios) 
    2010 
 2009  2008 
       2010 
       2009       2008 
 2010 
 2009  2008 
 2010 
 2009  2008 
Noninterest revenue 
$  18,253
 $  18,522 $   2,051 
$  12,228
 $ 12,200 $   9,355 
 $  3,277
 $  2,920 $  2,719 
$   2,200
 $   1,817 $  1,481
  Net interest income 
7,964
 9,587 10,284 
19,528
 20,492 14,165 
13,886
 17,384 13,755 
 3,840
  3,903 3,296
  Total net revenue
 26,217
 28,109 12,335 
31,756 
32,692 23,520 
17,163
 20,304 16,474 
 6,040
  5,720 4,777
  Provision for credit losses 
(1,200)
 2,279 2,015 
9,452
 15,940 9,905 
  8,037
 18,462 10,059 
 297
  1,454 464
  Credit reimbursement
   (to)/from TSS
(b)
 Š Š Š 
Š Š Š 
  Š
 Š Š 
 Š
  Š Š
  Noninterest expense
(c)
 17,265
 15,401 13,844 
17,864
 16,748 12,077 
  5,797
 5,381 5,140 
 2,199
  2,176 1,946
  Income/(loss) before 
income tax expense/ 
(benefit) and  
extraordinary gain 10,152 
10,429 (3,524) 
4,440 
4 1,538 
  3,329 
(3,539) 1,275 
 3,544 
 2,090 2,367
  Income tax expense/(benefit)
 3,513
 3,530 (2,349) 
1,914
 (93) 658 
  1,255
 (1,314) 495 
 1,460
  819 928
  Income/(loss) before  
  extraordinary gain
 6,639
 6,899 (1,175) 
2,526
 97 880 
  2,074
 (2,225) 780 
 2,084
  1,271 1,439
  Extraordinary gain
(d)
  
Š Š Š 
Š Š Š 
  Š
 Š Š 
 Š
  Š Š
  Net income/(loss)
   
 $    6,639
  $ 6,899 $   (1,175) 
$ 2,526
  $     97 $    880 
$   2,074
 $  (2,225)  $     780 
$   2,084
 $   1,271 $  1,439
  Average common equity 
$  40,000
 $  33,000 $  26,098 
$  28,000
 $ 25,000 $ 19,011 
$  15,000
 $ 15,000 $ 14,326 
$   8,000
 $   8,000 $  7,251
  Average assets 
731,801
 699,039 832,729 
381,337
 407,497 304,442 
145,750
 192,749 173,711 
 133,654
  135,408 114,299
  Return on average equity
(e)      17%
       21% (5)%
  9%
   Š% 5% 
14%
 (15)%
 5%
  26%
  16% 20
 % Overhead ratio 
66
 55 112 
56
 51 51 
34
 27 31 
 36
  38 41
  (a)
 In addition to analyzing the Firm™s results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm™s lines of business results on a ﬁmanaged basis,ﬂ which is a non-GAAP finan-
cial measure. The Firm™s definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that do not have any impact  
on net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole. 
(b) TSS was charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within IB credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS. IB recognizes this credit 
reimbursement in its credit portfolio business in all other income.   
(c) Includes merger costs, which are reported in the Corporate/Private Equity segment. There were no merger costs in 2010. Merger costs attributed to the business 
segments for 2009 and 2008 were as follows
.  Year ended December 31, (in millions)
   200
9  200
8  Investment Bank
   $ 27
  $ 183
  Retail Financial Services
  228
 90
  Card Services
  40
 20
  Commercial Banking
  6 4  Treasury & Securities Servic
es
  11
 Š  Asset Manag
ement
  6 3  Corporate/Private Equity
  163
 132
  (d) On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual from the FDIC for $1.9 billion. The fair value of the net assets 
acquired exceeded the purchase price, which resulted in negative goodwill. In accordance with U.S. GAAP for business combinations, nonfinancial assets that are not 
held-for-sale, such as premises and equipment and other intangibles, acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction were written down against that negative goodwill. 
The negative goodwill that remained after writing down nonfinancial assets was recognized as an extraordinary gain. 
(e) 
Ratio is based on income/(loss) before extraordinary gain for 2009 and 2008.
 (f) Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Prior to the adoption of the new guidance, managed results for credit card excluded 
the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, provision for credit losses and average assets, as JPMorgan Chase treated the sold receivables as if they 
were still on the balance sheet in evaluating the credit performance of the entire managed credit card portfolio, as operations are funded, and decisions are made about 
allocating resources, such as employees and capital, based on managed information. These adjustments are eliminated in reconciling items to arrive at the Firm
™s re-
ported U.S. GAAP results. The related securitization adjustments were as follows. 
Year ended December 31, (i
n millions)
 2010
 2009
 2008
 Noninterest revenue
     
 NA
   $  (1,494)
 $ (3,333
) Net interest income
   NA
   7,937
 6,945
 Provision for credit losses
   NA
   6,443
 3,612
 Average assets
   NA
   82,233
 76,904
 (g) Included a $1.5 billion charge to conform Washington Mutual™s credit loss reserve to JPMorgan Chase™s allowance methodology. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
293
(table continued from previous page)
 Treasury & 
Securities Services 
 Asset 
Management  Corporate/Private Equity  Reconciling items
(f)(i)
  Total 
  2010 
 2009 
 2008 
 2010 
 2009  2008 
 2010 
 2009  2008 
 2010 
 2009  2008 
2010 
 2009  2008
  $  4,757
 $  4,747  $ 5,196 
$   7,485
 $ 6,372 $  6,066 
 $ 5,359
 $ 2,771 $      (278) 
$  (1,866)
 $  (67) $    1,883 
$  51,693
 $  49,282 $ 28,473
    2,624
   2,597 2,938 
1,499
 1,593 1,518 
  2,063
  3,863 347 
(403)
 (8,267) (7,524) 
51,001
 51,152  38,779
    7,381
   7,344 8,134 
8,984
 7,965 7,584 
  7,422
  6,634 69 
(2,269)
 (8,334) (5,641) 
102,694
 100,434  67,252
    (47)
   55 82 
86
 188 85 
  14
  80 
1,981
(g)(
h)Š (6,443) (3,612) 
16,639
 32,015  20,979
                    (121)
   (121) (121) 
Š Š Š 
  Š
  Š Š 
121
 121 121 
Š Š  Š
    5,604
   5,278 5,223 
6,112
 5,473 5,298 
  6,355
  1,895 (28) 
Š Š Š 
61,196
 52,352  43,500
     
     
     
   
   
   
      
       
   
      
      1,703
   1,890  2,708 
2,786
 2,304 2,201 
  1,053
  4,659 (1,884) 
(2,148)
 (1,770) (1,908) 
24,859
 16,067  2,773
    624
   664  941 
1,076
 874 844 
  (205)
  1,705 (535) 
(2,148)
 (1,770) (1,908) 
7,489
 4,415  (926
 )    
   
      
       1,079
    1,226  1,767 
1,710
 1,430 1,357 
  1,258
  2,954 (1,349) 
Š Š Š 
17,370
 11,652  3,699
    Š
   Š  Š 
Š Š Š 
   Š
   76 1,906 
Š Š Š 
Š 76  1,906
  $  1,079
 $  1,226  $ 1,767 
$ 1,710
 $ 1,430 $  1,357 
$  1,258
 $  3,030 $       557 
$ Š
 $ Š $     Š 
$    17,370
 $    11,728 $ 5,605
  $  6,500
 $  5,000  $ 3,751 
$ 6,500
  $ 7,000 $  5,645 
$  57,520
 $  52,903 $  53,034 
$  Š
 $  Š $     Š 
$  161,520
 $  145,903 $ 129,116
  42,494
 35,963  54,563 
65,056
  60,249 65,550 
 553,159
  575,529 323,227 
NA (82,233) (76,904) 
2,053,251
 2,024,201  1,791,617
     17%
   25%
 47% 
   26%
   20% 24%
   NM
 NM NM 
  NM
   NM NM 
10%
 6%  4
 %   76 
  72  64 
68
 69 70 
  NM
 NM NM 
NM NM NM 
   60
    52  65
  (h) In November 2008, the Firm transferred $5.8 billion of higher quality credit card loans from the legacy Chase portfolio to a securitization trust previously established by 
WMMT. As a result of converting higher credit quality Chase-originated on-book receivables to the Trust™s seller™s interest which has a higher overall loss rate reflective of the 
total assets within the Trust, approximately $400 million of incremental provision for credit losses was recorded during the fourth quarter of 2008. This incremental provision 
for credit losses was recorded in the Corporate/Private Equity segment as the action related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual™s banking operations. For further discus-
sion of credit card securitizations, see Note 16 on pages 244Œ259 of this Annual Report. 
(i) Segment managed results reflect revenue on a tax-equivalent basis with the corresponding income tax impact recorded within income tax expense/(benefit). These adjust-
ments are eliminated in reconciling items to arrive at the Firm™s reported U.S. GAAP results. Tax-equivalent adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 
2008 were as follows.  
Year ended December 31, (in millions
) 2010
 2009
  2008
 Noninterest revenue
   $  
 1,745
 $  
1,440
   $ 1,329
 Net interest income
   403
   330
   579
 Income tax expense
   2,148
   1,770
   1,908
   
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
294
Note 35 Œ Parent company 
Parent company Œ statements of income
 Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
 20
10
      2009  2008
  Income
     Dividends from subsidiaries:
  Bank and bank holding company  
$ 16,554
 $ 15,235 
  $  3,085 
  Nonbank
(a)
  932
  1,036   1,687 
Interest income from subsidiaries 
 985
  1,501   4,539 
Other interest income 
 294
  266   212 
Other income from subsidia
ries, 
primarily fees: 
    
   Bank and bank holding company 
 680
  233   244 
   Nonbank  
 312
  742   95 
Other income/(loss) 
 15
7  844   (1,038) 
Total income
  19,914
  19,857   8,824 
Expense
     
Interest expense to subsidiaries
(a)
  1,263
  1,118   1,302 
Other interest expense 
 3,782
  4,696   6,879 
Compensation expense 
 17
7  574   43 
Other noninterest expense 
 363
  414   732 
Total expense
  5,585
  6,802   8,956 
Income/(loss) before income tax benefit 
 and undistributed net income of 
subsidiaries 
 14,329
  
 13,055   
(132)
) 
Income tax benefit 
 511
  1,269   2,582 
Equity in undistributed net income of 
subsidiaries 
 2,530
  (2,596)   3,155 
Net income
 $ 
 17,370
 $  11,728 
 $  5,605 
 Parent company 
Œ balance sheets
   December 31, (in millions) 
  
 20
10
  2009
 Assets
   
Cash and due from banks 
 $ 96
  $ 102
 Deposits with banking subsidiaries 
 80,201
  87,893
 Trading assets 
 16,038
  14,808
 Available-for-sale securities  
 3,176
  2,647
 Loans 
 1,849
  1,316
 Advances to
, and receivables from, subsidia
ries:
   Bank and bank holding company 
 54,887
  54,152
 Nonbank 
 72,08
0  81,365
 Investments (at equity) in subsid
iaries: 
   Bank and bank holding company 
 150,876
  157,412
 Nonbank
(a)
  38,000
  32,547
 Goodwill and other intangibles 
 1,050
  1,104
 Other assets 
 17,171
  14,793
 Total assets
  $ 435,424
  $ 448,139
 Liabilities and stockholders™ equity
  
 Borrowings from, and payables to, subsidiaries
(a)
  $ 28,332
  $ 39,532
 Other borrowed funds, prima
rily commercial 
paper 
 41,874
  41,454
 Other liabilities 
 7,302
  8,035
 Long-term debt
(b)
  181,810
  193,753
 Total liabilities
  259,318
  282,774
 Total stockholders™ equity 
 176,106
  165,365
 Total liabilities and stoc
kholders™ equity
  $ 435,424
  $ 448,139
  Parent company Œ statements of cash flows
 Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
 20
10
      2009   2008 
Operating activities
     Net income 
$  17,370
 $ 
 11,728 
  $     5,605
  Less: Net income of subsidiaries
(a)
   20,016
   13,675  7,927
  Parent company net loss
   (2,646)
   (1,947)  (2,322
 ) 
Cash dividends from subsidiaries
(a)
   17,432
   16,054  4,648
  Other, net 
  1,
685
   1,852  1,920
  Net cash provided by operating 
activities
   16,471
   15,959  4,246
  Investing activities
   
 Net change in:
      Deposits with banking subsidiaries 
7,
692
 (27,342)  (7,579
 ) 
Available
-for
-sale securities:
    Purchases 
  (1,387)
   (1,454)  (1,475
 ) 
Proceeds from sales and maturities  
  745
   522  Š
  Loans, net 
  (90)
   209  (102
 ) 
Advances to subsidiaries, net 
  8,051
   28,808  (82,725
 ) 
Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries, net
(a)   (871)
   (6,582)  (26,212
 ) 
Net cash 
provided by/(
used in
) investing activities
   14,140
   (5,839) 
  (118,093
 ) 
Financing activities
   
 Net change in borrowings from 
 subsidiaries
(a)
   (2,039)
   (4,935)  20,529
  Net change in other borrowed funds 
 (11,843)
   1,894  (12,880
 ) 
Proceeds from the issuance of long
-term 
debt 
  21,610
   32,304   50,013
  Proceeds from the assumption of 
 subsidiaries long-term debt
(c)
   Š
   15,264   39,778
  Repayments of long-term debt 
 (32,893)
 (31,964) (22,972
 ) 
Proceeds from issuance of common stock 
  Š   5,756  11,500
  Excess tax benefits related to stock
-based 
compensation  
  26
   17  148
  Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock 
and Warrant to the U.S. Treasury 
  Š
   Š  25,000
  Proceeds from issuance of 
other 
preferred 
stock
(d)
   Š
   Š  8,098
  Redemption of preferred stock issued to 
the U.S. Treasury  
  Š
 (25,000)  Š
  Redemption of other preferred stock  
  (352)
 Š  Š
  Treasury stock repurchased 
  (2,999)
   Š  Š
  Dividends paid 
  (1,486)
   (3,422)  (5,911
 ) 
All other financing activities, net 
  (641
)   33  469
  Net cash 
(used in)/
provided by 
financing activities
  (30,617)
 (10,053)  113,772
  Net increase/(decrease) in cash and due 
from banks 
  (6)
   67  (75
 ) 
Cash and due from banks at the 
 beginning of the year, primarily with 
bank subsidiaries 
  102
   35  110
  Cash and due from banks at the end 
of the
 year, primarily with bank 
subsidiaries 
$ 96 
$ 102  $        35
  Cash interest paid 
$ 5,090
 $ 5,629  $   7,485
  Cash income taxes paid, net 
  7,001
   3,124  156
  (a) Subsidiaries include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (ﬁissuer trustsﬂ). The Parent received dividends of $13 million, $14 million and $15 million from the 
issuer trusts in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For further discussion on these issuer trusts, see Note 22 on pages 265Œ266 of this Annual Report. 
(b) At December 31, 2010, long-term debt that contractually matures in 2011 through 2015 totaled $38.9 billion, $42.4 billion, $17.6 billion, $19.0 billion and $16.8 billion, 
respectively. 
(c) Represents the assumption of Bear Stearns long-term debt by JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
(d) 2008 included the conversion of Bear Stearns™ preferred stock into JPMorgan Chase preferred stock. 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
295
Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited) 
As of or for the period ended
  2010
    2009
 (in millions, except per 
share, ratio and 
 headcount data)
 4th quarter 3rd quarter 2nd quarter 1st quarter 4th quarter 3rd quarter 2nd quarter
 1st quarter
Selected income stat
ement data
   
       
Noninterest revenue 
 $ 13,996
  $ 11,322
  $ 12,414
  $ 13,961
  $ 10,786 $ 13,885  $ 12,953 $ 11,658
  Net interest income 
 12,102
  12,502
  12,687
  13,710
  12,378  12,737  12,670  13,367
  To
tal net revenue
  26,098
  23,824
  25,101
  27,671
  23,164  26,622  25,623  25,025
  Total noninterest expense 
 16,043
  14,398
  14,631
  16,124
  12,004  13,455  13,520  13,373 
  Pre-provision profit
(a)
  10,055
  9,426
  10,470
  11,547
  11,160  13,167  12,103  11,652 
  Provision for credit losses 
 3,043
  3,223
  3,363
  7,010
  7,284  8,104  8,031   8,596
  Income before income tax expense
 and extraordinary gain  7,012
  6,203
  7,107
  4,537
  3,876  5,063  4,072  3,056
  Income tax expense  
 2,181
  1,785
  2,312
  1,21
1  598  1,551  1,351  915
  Income 
before extraord
inary gain
  4,831
  4,418
  4,795
  3,326
  3,278  3,512  2,721  2,141
  Extraordinary gain
(b)
  Š  Š
  Š
  Š
  Š  76  Š  Š
  Net income 
  $ 4,831
  $ 4,418
  $ 4,795
  $ 3,326
  $ 3,278 $ 3,588  $ 2,721 $ 2,141
  Per 
common 
share data
          
Basic earnings 
         
Income before extraordinary gain 
 $ 1.13
  $ 1.02
  $ 1.10
  $ 0.75
  $ 0.75 $ 0.80  $ 0.28 $ 0.40
  Net income 
 1.13
  1.02
  1.10
  0.75
  0.75  0.82  0.28  0.40
  Diluted earnings
(c)
          
Income before extraordinary gain 
 $ 1.12
  $ 1.01
  $ 1.09
  $ 0.74
  $ 0.74 $ 0.80  $ 0.28 $ 0.40
  Net income 
 1.12
  1.01
  1.09
  0.74
  0.74  0.82  0.28  0.40
  Cash dividends declared per share 
 0.05
  0.05
  0.05
  0.05
  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.05
  Book value per share 
 43.04
  42.29
  40.99
  39.38
  39.88  39.12  37.36  36.78
  Common shares ou
tstanding
  
        
Average: Basic 
 3,917.0
  3,954.3
  3,983.5
  3,970.5
  3,946.1  3,937.9  3,811.5   
3,755.7 
    Diluted 
 3,935.2
  3,971
.9
  4,005.6
  3,994.7
  3,974.1  3,962.0  3,824.1  3,758.7
  Common shares at period-end  
 3,910.3
  3,9
25.8
  3,975.8
  3,975.4
  3,942.0  3,938.7  3,924.1  3,757.7
  Share price
(d)
          
High 
 $ 43.12
  $ 41.70
  $ 48.20
  $ 46.05
  $ 47.47 $ 46.50  $  38.94 $ 31.64
  Low 
 36.21
  35.16
  36.51
  37.03
  40.04  31.59  25.29  14.96
  Close 
 42.42
  38.06
  36.61
  44.75
  41.67  43.82  34.11  26.58
  Market capitalization 
 165,875
  149,418
  145,554
  177,897
  164,261  172,596  133,852  99,881
  Financial ratios
          
Return on common equity
(c)
  
        
Income before extraordinary gain 
 11
%  10
%  12
%  8% 8%
 9%
 3%
 5%
 Net income 
 11
  10
  12
  8  8  9  3  5
  Return on tangible common equity
(c)
          
Income before extraordinary gain 
 16
  15
  17  12
  12  13  5  8
  Net income 
 16
  15  17  12
  12  14  5  8
  Ret
urn on
 assets
          Income before extraordinary gain 
 0.92
  0.86
  0.94
  0.66
  0.65  0.70  0.54  0.42
  Net income 
 0.92
  0.86
  0.94
  0.66
  0.65  0.71  0.54  0.42
  Overhead ratio 
 61
  60
  58
  58
  52  51  53  53
  Deposits-to-loans ratio 
 134
  131
  127
  130
  148  133  127  128
  Tier 1 capital ratio
(e)
  12.1
  11.9
  12.1
  11.5
  11.1  10.2  9.7  11.4
  Total capital ratio 
 15.5
  15.
4  15.8
  15.1
  14.8  13.9  13.3  15.2
  Tier 1 leverage ratio 
 7.
0  7.1
  6.9
  6.6
  6.9  6.5  6.2  7.1
  Tier 1 common capital ratio
(f)
  9.8
  9.5
  9.6
  9.1
  8.8  8.2  7.7  7.3
  Selected balance sheet data 
 (period-end)
(e)
          
Trading assets 
 $ 489,892
  $ 475,515
  $ 397,508
  $ 426,128
  $ 411,128 $  424,435 $  395,626 $ 429,700
  Securities 
 316,336
  340,168
  312,013
  344,
37
6  360,390  372,867  345,563  333,861
  Loans 
 692,927
  690,531
  699,483
  713,799
  633,458  653,144  680,601  708,243
  Total assets 
 2,117,605
  2,141,595
  2,014,019
  2,135,796
  2,031,989  2,041,009  2,026,642  2,079,188
  Deposits 
 930,369
  903,138
  887,805
  925
,303
  938,367  867,977  866,477  906,969
  Long-term debt 
 247,669
  255,589
  248,618
  262,857
  266,318  272,124  271,939  261,845
  Common stockholders™ equity 
 168,306
  166,030
  162,968
  156,569
  157,213  154,101  146,614  138,201
  Total stockholders™ equity 
 176,106
  173,830
  171,120
  164,721
  165,365  162,253  154,766  170,194
  Headcount
  239,831
  236,810
  232,939
  226,623
  222,316  220,861  220,255  219,569
   
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
296
As of or for the period ended
  2010
    2009
  (in millions, except ratio data)
 4th quarte
r 3rd quarter
 2nd quarter
 1st quarter
 4th quarter
 3rd quarter
 2nd quarter
 1st quarter
Credit quality metrics
   
  
    Allowance for credit losses 
 $ 32,983
  $ 35,034
  $ 36,748
  $ 39,126
  $ 32,541  $ 31,454  $ 29,818  $ 28,019 
Allowance for loan losse
s to total r
etained 
loans 
 4.71%
  4.97%  5.15%
  5.40%
  5.04%  4.74%
  4.33%  3.95%
 Allowance for loan losses to retained loans 
excluding purchased credit-impaired loans
(g)
  4.46
  5.12
  5.34
  5.64
  5.51  5.28  5.01 4.53 
Nonperforming assets 
 $ 16,557
  $ 17,656
  $ 18,156
  $ 19,019
  $ 19,741  $ 20,362  $ 17,517  $ 14,654
Net charge-offs 
 5,104
  4,945
  5,714
  7,910
  6,177  6,373  6,019 4,396 
Net charge-off rate 
 2.95%
  2.84%
  3.28%
  4.46%
  3.85%  3.84%
  3.52%  2.51%
 Wholesale net charge-off rate 
 0.
49
  0.49
  0.44
  1.84
  2.31  1.93  1.19 0.32 
Consumer net charge-off rate
(h)
   4.12
   3.90
   4.49
   5.56
   4.60   4.79   4.69     3.61 
(a) Pre-provision profit is total net revenue less noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to 
generate income in excess of its provision for credit losses.  
(b) On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual. On May 30, 2008, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase merged 
with and into The Bear Stearns Companies, Inc. (ﬁBear Stearnsﬂ), and Bear Stearns became a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase. The Washington Mutual acquisi-
tion resulted in negative goodwill, and accordingly, the Firm recorded an extraordinary gain. A preliminary gain of $1.9 billion was recognized at December 31, 2008. The 
final total extraordinary gain that resulted from the Washington Mutual transaction was $2.0 billion. For additional information of these transactions, see Note 2 on pages 
166Œ170 of this Annual Report. 
(c) The calculation of second-quarter 2009 earnings per share and net income applicable to common equity includes a one-time, noncash reduction of $1.1 billion, or $0.27 per 
share, resulting from repayment of U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program (ﬁTARPﬂ) preferred capital. Excluding this reduction, the adjusted return on common equity (ﬁROEﬂ) 
and Return on tangible common equity (ﬁROTCEﬂ) were 6% and 10%, respectively, for second-quarter 2009. The Firm views the adjusted ROE and ROTCE, both non-GAAP 
financial measures, as meaningful because they enable the comparability to prior periods. For further discussion, see ﬁExplanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-
GAAP financial measuresﬂ on pages 64Œ66 of this Annual Report. 
(d) Share prices shown for JPMorgan Chase™s common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange. JPMorgan Chase™s common stock is also listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
(e) Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted new guidance that amended the accounting for the transfer of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs. Upon adoption of 
the new guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts, Firm-administered multi-seller conduits and certain other consumer loan securiti-
zation entities, primarily mortgage-related, adding $87.7 billion and $92.2 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, and decreasing stockholders™ equity and the Tier 1 capi-

tal ratio by $4.5 billion and 34 basis points, respectively. The reduction to stockholders™ equity was driven by the establishment of an allowance for loan losses of $7.5 billion 

(pretax) primarily related to receivables held in credit card securitization trusts that were consolidated at the adoption date. 
(f) The Firm uses Tier 1 common along with the other capital measures to assess and monitor its capital position. The Tier 1 common ratio is Tier 1 common divided by risk-
weighted assets. For further discussion, see Regulatory capital on pages 102Œ104 of this Annual Report. 
(g) Excludes the impact of home lending PCI loans and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust. For further discussion, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 139Œ
141 of this Annual Report. 
(h) The fourth quarter of 2010 includes an aggregate adjustment of $632 million to increase net charge-offs related to the estimated net realizable value of the collateral underly-
ing delinquent residential home loans. Because these losses were previously recognized in the provision and allowance for loan losses, this adjustment had no impact on the 
Firm™s net income.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
297
Selected annual financial data (unaudited) 
 As of or for the year ended December 31,
       (in millions, except per share, ratio and headcount data)
  2010 
 2009            2008
(d)
 2007 2006 
Selected income statement data
      Noninterest revenue 
$ 51,693
  $ 49,282 $ 28,473  $ 44,966 $ 40,757
Net interest income 
  51,001
   51,152   38,779   26,406 21,242
Total net revenue
   102,694
   100,434   67,252   71,372 61,999
Total noninterest expense 
 61,196
   52,352   43,500   41,703 38,843
Pre-provision profit
(a)
  41,498 
  48,082   23,752   29,669 23,156
Provision for credit losses 
 16,639
   32,015   19,445   6,864 3,270
Provision for credit losses Œ accounting conformity
(b)
  Š 
  Š   1,534   Š 
ŠIncome from continuing operations before income tax expense/
 (benefit) and extraordinary gain 
 24,859 
  16,067   2,773   22,805 19,886
Income tax expense/(benefit) 
 7,489
   4,415   (926)   7,440 6,237
Income from continuing operations
  17,370
   11,652   3,699   15,365 13,649
Income from discontinued operations
(c)
  Š 
  Š   Š   Š 
795
Income before extraordinary gain
  17,370
   11,652   3,699   15,365 14,444
Extraordinary gain 
(d)
  
 Š 
  76   1,906   Š Š
Net income
  
$  17,370
  $ 11,728 $ 5,605 $ 15,365  $ 14,444
Per
 common share data
    Basic earnings
    
    Income from continuing operations  
$ 
 3.98
  $ 2.25 $ 0.81  $ 4.38  $ 3.83 
  Net income 
 3.98
  2.27  1.35  4.38 4.05 
Diluted earnings
(e)
       Income from continuing operations  
$ 
 3.96
  $  2.24 $  0.81  $ 4.33  $ 3.78 
  Net income 
 3.96
   2.26   1.35  4.33 4.00 
Cash dividends declared per share 
 0.20
   0.20   1.52  1.48 1.36 
Book value per share 
 43.04
   39.88   36.15  36.59 33.45 
Common shares outstanding
    Average: Basic 
 3,956.3
   3,862.8   3,501.1  3,403.6  3,470.1 
  Diluted  
 3,976.9
   3,879.7   3,521.8  3,445.3  3,516.1 
Common shares at period-end 
 3,910.3
   3,942.0   3,732.8  3,367.4  3,461.7 
Share price
(f)    High  
$ 
 48.20
  $ 47.47 $ 50.63  $ 53.25  $ 49.00 
Low 
 35.16
   14.96   19.69  40.15 37.88 
Close 
 42.42
   41.67   31.53  43.65 48.30 
Market capitalization 
 165,875
   164,261   117,695 146,986 167,199
Financial ratios
    Return on common equity
(e)
       Income from continuing operations  
  10% 
 6%  2%
 13%
 12% 
  Net income 
 10
 6 
4 13 
13
Return on tangible common equity
(e)
    
  Income from continuing operations  
 15
 10 
4 22 
24
  Net income 
 15
 10 
6 22 
24
Return on assets 
      Income from continuing operations  
 0.85
  0.58  0.21  1.06 1.04 
  Net income 
 0.85
  0.58  0.31  1.06 1.10
Overhead ratio 
 60 
 52 65 58 
63
Deposits-to-loans ratio 
 134 
 148 135 143 
132 
Tier 1 capital ratio
(g)  12.1 
 11.1  10.9  8.4 8.7 
Total capital ratio 
 15.5
  14.8  14.8  12.6 12.3 
Tier 1 leverage ratio 
 7.0
  6.9  6.9  6.0 
6.2 
Tier 1 common capital ratio
(h)  9.8 
8.8  7.0  7.0 
7.3
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)
(g)     Trading assets 
$ 489,892
  $ 411,128  $ 509,983  $ 491,409  $ 365,738 
Securities 
 316,336
 360,390 205,943 85,450 91,975
Loans 
 692,927
 633,458 744,898 519,374 483,127
Total assets 
 2,1
17,605
 2,031,989  2,175,052   1,562,147   1,351,520 
Deposits 
 930,369
 938,367 1,009,277 740,728 638,788
Long-term debt 
 247,669
 266,318 270,683 199,010 145,630
Common stockholders™ equity 
 168,306
 157,213 134,945 123,221 115,790
Total stockholders™ equity 
 176,106
 165,365 166,884 123,221 115,790
He
adcount
  239,831
 222,316 224,961 180,667 174,360

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
298
 As of or for the year ended December 31,
       (in millions, except ratio data)
 2010 
2009 
2008
(d)
 2007 2006 
Credit quality metrics
      Allowance for credit losses 
 $ 32,983
  $ 32,541  $ 23,823   $ 10,084  $  7,803 
Allowance for loan losses to total retained loans 
  4.71%
   5.04%    3.18%
   1.88%
  1.70% 
Allowance for loan losses to retained loans, excluding PCI loans
(i)
   4.46 
  5.51    3.62     1.88    1.70 
Nonperforming assets 
 $ 16,557
  $ 19,741  $ 12,714  $ 3,933 $  2,341
Net charge-offs 
  23,673
   22,965   9,835    4,538    3,042 
Net charge-off rate 
 3.39%
  3.42%  1.73%
   1.00%
  0.73% 
Wholesale net charge-off/(recovery) rate 
 0.81
  1.40  0.18  0.04   (0.01) 
Consumer net charge-off rate 
 4.53
  4.41  2.71  1.61   1.17 
(a)
 Pre-provision profit is total net revenue less noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to generate 
income in excess of its provision for credit losses.  
(b)
 Results for 2008 included an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank™s banking operations. 
(c)
 On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase & Co. completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses for the consumer, business-banking and middle-market banking 
businesses of The Bank of New York Company Inc. The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses were reported as discontinued operations. 
(d)
 On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual. On May 30, 2008, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase merged 
with and into Bear Stearns, and Bear Stearns became a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase. The Washington Mutual acquisition resulted in negative goodwill, and 

accordingly, the Firm recorded an extraordinary gain. A preliminary gain of $1.9 billion was recognized at December 31, 2008. The final total extraordinary gain that resulted 

from the Washington Mutual transaction was $2.0 billion. For additional information on these transactions, see Note 2 on pages 166Œ170 of this Annual Report. 
(e)
 The calculation of 2009 earnings per share and net income applicable to common equity includes a one-time, noncash reduction of $1.1 billion, or $0.27 per share, resulting 
from repayment of TARP preferred capital in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding this reduction, the adjusted return on equity (ﬁROEﬂ) and return on tangible common equity 

(ﬁROTCEﬂ) were 7% and 11%, respectively, for 2009. The Firm views the adjusted ROE and ROTCE, both non-GAAP financial measures, as meaningful because they enable the 

comparability to prior periods. For further discussion, see ﬁExplanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measuresﬂ on pages 64Œ66 of this Annual 
Report.  
(f)
 Share prices shown for JPMorgan Chase™s common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange. JPMorgan Chase™s common stock is also listed and traded on the London 
Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
(g)
 Effective January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted new guidance that amended the accounting for the transfer of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs. Upon adoption of 
the new guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts, Firm-administered multi-seller conduits and certain other consumer loan securitiza-
tion entities, primarily mortgage-related, adding $87.7 billion and $92.2 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, and decreasing stockholders™ equity and the Tier 1 capital 
ratio by $4.5 billion and 34 basis points, respectively. The reduction to stockholders™ equity was driven by the establishment of an allowance for loan losses of $7.5 billion 
(pretax) primarily related to receivables held in credit card securitization trusts that were consolidated at the adoption date. 
(h)
 The Firm uses Tier 1 common along with the other capital measures to assess and monitor its capital position. The Tier 1 common ratio is Tier 1 common divided by risk-
weighted assets. For further discussion, see Regulatory capital on pages 102Œ104 of this Annual Report. 
(i)
 Excludes the impact of home lending PCI loans and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust. For further discussion, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 139Œ141 
of this Annual Report.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
299
 Short-term and other borrowed funds 
The following table provides a summary of JPMorgan Ch
ase™s short-term and other borrowed funds for the years indicated. 
(a)  Includes securities sold but not yet purchased.  
(b)  Included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities. 
(c)  Reflects a benefit from the favorable market environments for U.S. dollar-roll financings. 
 Federal funds purchased represent overnight funds. Securities 
loaned or sold under repurchase agreements generally mature 
between one day and three months. Commercial paper generally is 

issued in amounts not less than $100,000, and with maturities of 
270 days or less. Other borrowed funds consist of demand notes, 

term federal funds purchased, and various other borrowings that 

generally have maturities of one year or less.  
As of or for the year ending December 31, (in millions, except rates)
     
 2010
   2009
 2008
 Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements
:     Balance at year
-end
  $ 276,644
  $ 261,413
 $  
192,546
 Average daily balance during the year
  278,603
  275,862
 196,739
 Maximum month
-end bala
nce
  314,161
  310,802
 224,075
 Weighted
-average rate at December 31
 0.18%
   0.04%
 0.97
% Weighted
-average rate during the year
 (0.07
)(c)
  0.21
 2.37
 Commercial paper:
     Balance at year
-end
  $ 35,363
  $ 41,794
 $   
 37,845
 Average daily balance d
uring the year
  36,000
  39,055
 45,734
 Maximum month
-end balance
  50,554
  53,920
 54,480
 Weighted
-average rate at December 31
 0.21%
  0.18%
 0.82
 % Weighted
-average rate during the year
  0.20
  0.28
 2.24
 Other borrowed funds:
(a)
     
Balance at year
-end
  $ 134,256
  $ 120,686
 $  
177,674
 Average daily balance during the year
  121,949
  130,767
 118,714
 Maximum month
-end balance
  137,347
  188,004
 244,040
 Weighted
-average rate at December 31
  4.
48
%  3.37%
 3.65
 % Weighted
-average rate during the year
  2.34
  2.92
 4.29
 Short-term beneficial interests
:(b)
     Commercial paper
 and other borrowed funds
:     Balance at year
-end
  $ 25,095
  $ 4,787
 $   
   
    
Š Average daily balance during the year
  21,
853
  3,275
 1,846
 Maximum month
-end balance
  25,09
5  7,751
 3,459
 Weighted
-average rate at December 31
 0.25
%  0.17%
 NA
 Weighted
-average rate during the year
 0.2
7  0.24
  2.49
% 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
300
ACH:
 Automated Clearing House. 
Advised lines of credit:
 An authorization which specifies the 
maximum amount of a credit facility the Firm has made available to 
an obligor on a revolving but non-binding basis. The borrower 

receives written or oral advice of this facility. The Firm may cancel 

this facility at any time. 
Allowance for loan losses to total loans: 
Represents period-
end Allowance for loan losses divided by retained loans. 

Assets under management:
 Represent assets actively man-
aged by AM on behalf of Private Banking, Institutional and Retail 
clients. Includes ﬁCommitted capital not Called,ﬂ on which AM 

earns fees. Excludes assets managed by American Century Com-

panies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 41% ownership interest as 

of December 31, 2010. 
Assets under supervision:
 Represent assets under management 
as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts. 

Average managed assets:
 Refers to total assets on the Firm™s 
Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have 
been securitized and removed from the Firm™s Consolidated Bal-

ance Sheets, for periods ended prior to the January 1, 2010, adop-

tion of new accounting guidance requiring the consolidation of the 

Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts. 
Bear Stearns merger:
 Effective May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase 
merged with The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. (ﬁBear Stearnsﬂ), 
and Bear Stearns became a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan 

Chase. The final total purchase price to complete the merger was 

$1.5 billion. For additional information, see Note 2 on pages 166Œ

170 of this Annual Report. 
Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs: 
Represents 
the interest of third-party holders of debt/equity securities, or other 
obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates. The 

underlying obligations of the VIEs consist of short-term borrowings, 

commercial paper and long-term debt. The related assets consist of 

trading assets, available-for-sale securities, loans and other assets.
 Benefit obligation: 
Refers to the projected benefit obligation for 
pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obliga-

tion for OPEB plans. 
CAGR:
 Compound annual growth rate. 
Corporate/Private Equity:
 Includes Private Equity, Treasury and 
Chief Investment Office, and Corporate Other, which includes other 

centrally managed expense and discontinued operations.  
Credit card securitizations:
 For periods ended prior to the 
January 1, 2010, adoption of new guidance relating to the account-

ing for the transfer of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs, 

CS™ results were presented on a ﬁmanagedﬂ basis that assumed 

that credit card loans that had been securitized and sold in accor-

dance with U.S. GAAP remained on the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets and that earnings on the securitized loans were classified in 
the same manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets. ﬁManagedﬂ results excluded the 

impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provi-

sion for credit losses, net charge-offs and loans. Securitization did 

not change reported net income; however, it did affect the classifi-

cation of items on the Consolidated Statements of Income and 

Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
Credit derivatives:
 Contractual agreements that provide protec-
tion against a credit event on one or more referenced credits. The 
nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer and 

protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events 

include bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to meet payment obliga-

tions when due. The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic 

fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occur-

rence, if any, of a credit event.  
Credit cycle:
 A period of time over which credit quality improves, 
deteriorates and then improves again. The duration of a credit cycle 
can vary from a couple of years to several years. 
Deposit margin: 
Represents net interest income expressed as a 
percentage of average deposits. 

Discontinued operations: 
A component of an entity that is 
classified as held-for-sale or that has been disposed of from ongo-
ing operations in its entirety or piecemeal, and for which the entity 

will not have any significant, continuing involvement. A discontin-

ued operation may be a separate major business segment, a com-

ponent of a major business segment or a geographical area of 

operations of the entity that can be separately distinguished opera-

tionally and for financial reporting purposes.
  
FASB:
 Financial Accounting Standards Board.  
FDIC: 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
  
FICO: 
Fair Isaac Corporation.
  
Forward points:
 Represents the interest rate differential between 
two currencies, which is either added to or subtracted from the 
current exchange rate (i.e., ﬁspot rateﬂ) to determine the forward 

exchange rate. 
FRBB:
 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Headcount-related expense:
 Includes salary and benefits (ex-
cluding performance-based incentives), and other noncompensation 
costs related to employees. 
Interchange income:
 A fee that is paid to a credit card issuer in 
the clearing and settlement of a sales or cash advance transaction. 

Interests in purchased receivables: 
Represents an ownership 
interest in cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables trans-
ferred by a third-party seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity, 

generally a trust.
 Investment-grade:
 An indication of credit quality based on JPMor-
gan Chase™s internal risk assessment system. ﬁInvestment gradeﬂ 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
301
generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a ﬁBBB-ﬂ/ 
ﬂBaa3ﬂ or better, as defined by independent rating agencies. 
LLC: 
Limited Liability Company. 
Loan-to-value (ﬁLTVﬂ) ratio: 
For
 residential real estate loans, 
the relationship expressed as a percent, between the principal 
amount of a loan and the appraised value of the collateral (i.e., 

residential real estate) securing the loan. 
Origination date LTV ratio 
The LTV ratio at the origination date of the loan. Origination date 

LTV ratios are calculated based on the actual appraised values of 

collateral (i.e., loan-level data) at the origination date. 
Current estimated LTV ratio 
An estimate of the LTV as of a certain date. The current estimated 

LTV ratios are calculated using estimated collateral values derived 

from a nationally recognized home price index measured at the MSA 

level. These MSA-level home price indices comprise actual data to the 

extent available and forecasted data where actual data is not avail-

able. As a result, the estimated collateral values used to calculate 

these ratios do not represent actual appraised loan-level collateral 

values; as such, the resulting LTV ratios are necessarily imprecise and 

should therefore be viewed as estimates. 
Combined LTV ratio 
The LTV ratio considering all lien positions related to the property. 

Combined LTV ratios are used for junior lien home equity products.
 Managed basis: 
A non-GAAP presentation of financial results 
that includes reclassifications to present revenue on a fully taxable-

equivalent basis, and for periods ended prior to the January 1, 

2010, adoption of accounting guidance relating to the accounting 

for the transfer of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs 

related to credit card securitizations. Management uses this non-

GAAP financial measure at the segment level, because it believes 

this provides information to enable investors to understand the 

underlying operational performance and trends of the particular 

business segment and facilitates a comparison of the business 

segment with the performance of competitors.
 Managed credit card portfolio: 
Refers to credit card receivables 
on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receiv-
ables that have been securitized and removed from the Firm™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheets, for periods ended prior to the January 

1, 2010, adoption of new guidance requiring the consolidation of 

the Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts. 
 Mark-to-market exposure:
 A measure, at a point in time, of the 
value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open 
market. When the MTM value is positive, it indicates the counter-

party owes JPMorgan Chase and, therefore, creates credit risk for 

the Firm. When the MTM value is negative, JPMorgan Chase owes 

the counterparty; in this situation, the Firm has liquidity risk.  
Master netting agreement:
 An agreement between two coun-
terparties who have multiple derivative contracts with each other 
that provides for the net settlement of all contracts, as well as cash 
collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the 

event of default on or termination of any one contract. 
Merger costs:
 Reflects costs associated with the Bear Stearns 
merger and the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 

Mortgage product types:
 Alt-A 
Alt-A loans are generally higher in credit quality than subprime loans 
but have characteristics that would disqualify the borrower from a 

traditional prime loan. Alt-A lending characteristics may include one 

or more of the following: (i) limited documentation; (ii) high com-

bined-loan-to-value (ﬁCLTVﬂ) ratio; (iii) loans secured by non-owner 

occupied properties; or (iv) debt-to-income ratio above normal limits. 

Perhaps the most important characteristic is limited documentation. A 

substantial proportion of traditional Alt-A loans are those where a 

borrower does not provide complete documentation of his or her 

assets or the amount or source of his or her income.  
Option ARMs 
The option ARM real estate loan product is an adjustable-rate 

mortgage loan that provides the borrower with the option each 

month to make a fully amortizing, interest-only, or minimum 

payment. The minimum payment on an option ARM loan is based 

on the interest rate charged during the introductory period. This 

introductory rate is usually significantly below the fully indexed 

rate. The fully indexed rate is calculated using an index rate plus 

a margin. Once the introductory period ends, the contractual 

interest rate charged on the loan increases to the fully indexed 

rate and adjusts monthly to reflect movements in the index. The 

minimum payment is typically insufficient to cover interest ac-

crued in the prior month, and any unpaid interest is deferred and 

added to the principal balance of the loan. Option ARM loans are 

subject to payment recast, which converts the loan to a variable-

rate fully amortizing loan upon meeting specified loan balance 

and anniversary date triggers. 
Prime 
Prime mortgage loans generally have low default risk and are made 

to borrowers with good credit records and a monthly income that is 

at least three to four times greater than their monthly housing 

expense (mortgage payments plus taxes and other debt payments). 

These borrowers provide full documentation and generally have 

reliable payment histories. 
Subprime 
Subprime loans are designed for customers with one or more high 

risk characteristics, including but not limited to: (i) unreliable or 

poor payment histories; (ii) a high LTV ratio of greater than 80% 

(without borrower-paid mortgage insurance); (iii) a high debt-to-

income ratio; (iv) an occupancy type for the loan is other than the 

borrower™s primary residence; or (v) a history of delinquencies or 

late payments on the loan. 
MSR risk management revenue: 
Includes changes in MSR asset 
fair value due to market-based inputs, such as interest rates and 
volatility, as well as updates to assumptions used in the MSR 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
302
valuation model; and derivative valuation adjustments and other, 
which represents changes in the fair value of derivative instruments 

used to offset the impact of changes in the market-based inputs to 

the MSR valuation model. 
Multi-asset: 
Any fund or account that allocates assets under 
management to more than one asset class (e.g., long-term fixed 
income, equity, cash, real assets, private equity, or hedge funds).
 NA:
 Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.  
Net charge-off ratio:
 Represents net charge-offs (annualized) 
divided by average retained loans for the reporting period. 
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
 The average rate for 
interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of 
funds.  
NM:
 Not meaningful.  
Nonconforming mortgage loans: 
Mortgage loans that do not 
meet the requirements for sale to U.S. government agencies and 
U.S. government sponsored enterprises. These requirements include 

limits on loan-to-value ratios, loan terms, loan amounts, down 

payments, borrower creditworthiness and other requirements.
 OPEB: 
Other postretirement employee benefits.
  
Overhead ratio: 
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net 
revenue.  

Participating securities:
 Represent unvested stock-based com-
pensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends or 
dividend equivalents (collectively,ﬂdividendsﬂ), which are included 

in the earnings per share calculation using the two-class method. 

JPMorgan Chase grants restricted stock and RSUs to certain em-

ployees under its stock-based compensation programs, which 

entitle the recipients to receive nonforfeitable dividends during the 

vesting period on a basis equivalent to the dividends paid to hold-

ers of common stock. These unvested awards meet the definition of 

participating securities. Under the two-class method, all earnings 

(distributed and undistributed) are allocated to each class of com-

mon stock and participating securities, based on their respective 

rights to receive dividends. 
Personal bankers: 
Retail branch office personnel who acquire, 
retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by 
assessing customer needs and recommending and selling appropri-

ate banking products and services.  
Portfolio activity: 
Describes changes to the risk profile of existing 
lending-related exposures and their impact on the allowance for 
credit losses from changes in customer profiles and inputs used to 

estimate the allowances.  
Pre-provision profit:
 The Firm believes that this financial meas-
ure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to 
generate income in excess of its provision for credit losses.  
Pretax margin:
 Represents income before income tax expense 
divided by total net revenue, which is, in management™s view, a 
comprehensive measure of pretax performance derived by measur-
ing earnings after all costs are taken into consideration. It is, there-

fore, another basis that management uses to evaluate the 

performance of TSS and AM against the performance of their 

respective competitors. 
Principal transactions:
 Realized and unrealized gains and losses 
from trading activities (including physical commodities inventories 

that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value) and 

changes in fair value associated with financial instruments held 

predominantly by IB for which the fair value option was elected. 

Principal transactions revenue also includes private equity gains and 

losses. 
Purchased credit-impaired (ﬁPCIﬁ) loans: 
Acquired loans 
deemed to be credit-impaired under the FASB guidance for PCI 
loans. The guidance allows purchasers to aggregate credit-impaired 

loans acquired in the same fiscal quarter into one or more pools, 

provided that the loans have common risk characteristics (e.g., 

FICO score, geographic location). A pool is then accounted for as a 

single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate 

expectation of cash flows. Wholesale loans are determined to be 

credit-impaired if they meet the definition of an impaired loan 

under U.S. GAAP at the acquisition date. Consumer loans are 

determined to be credit-impaired based on specific risk characteris-

tics of the loan, including product type, LTV ratios, FICO scores, and 

past due status. 
Real estate investment trust (ﬁREITﬂ):
 A special purpose 
investment vehicle that provides investors with the ability to par-

ticipate directly in the ownership or financing of real-estate related 

assets by pooling their capital to purchase and manage income 

property (i.e., equity REIT) and/or mortgage loans (i.e., mortgage 

REIT). REITs can be publicly- or privately-held and they also qualify 

for certain favorable tax considerations. 
Receivables from customers: 
Primarily represents margin loans 
to prime and retail brokerage customers which are included in 
accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets for the wholesale lines of business.
 Reported basis: 
Financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP, 
which excludes the impact of taxable-equivalent adjustments. For 

periods ended prior to the January 1, 2010, adoption of new guid-

ance requiring the consolidation of the Firm-sponsored credit card 

securitization trusts, the reported basis included the impact of credit 

card securitizations. 
Retained loans:
 Loans that are held for investment excluding 
loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value. 

Sales specialists:
 Retail branch office personnel who specialize in 
the marketing of a single product, including mortgages, invest-
ments and business banking, by partnering with the personal 

bankers. 
Seed capital:
 Initial JPMorgan capital invested in products, such 
as mutual funds, with the intention of ensuring the fund is of 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report 
303
sufficient size to represent a viable offering to clients, enabling 
pricing of its shares, and allowing the manager to develop a com-

mercially attractive track record. After these goals are achieved, the 

intent is to remove the Firm™s capital from the investment.  
Stress testing:
 A scenario that measures market risk under 
unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. 

TARP: 
Troubled Asset Relief Program. 
Taxable-equivalent basis: 
Total net revenue for each of the 
business segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent 
basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities and invest-

ments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results 

on a basis comparable to fully taxable securities and investments. 
This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the 
comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt 

sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to these 

items is recorded within income tax expense. 
Troubled debt restructuring (ﬁTDRﬂ):
 Occurs when the Firm 
modifies the original terms of a loan agreement by granting a 

concession to a borrower that is experiencing financial difficulty. 
Unaudited: 
Financial statements and information that have not 
been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an 
independent certified public accountant to express an opinion. 
 U.S. GAAP:
 Accounting principles generally accepted in the United 
States of America. 
U.S. government and federal agency obligations:
 Obliga-
tions of the U.S. government or an instrumentality of the U.S. 

government whose obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed 

as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith 

and credit of the U.S. government. 
U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations:
 Obliga-
tions of agencies originally established or chartered by the U.S. 

government to serve public purposes as specified by the U.S. Con-

gress; these obligations are not explicitly guaranteed as to the 

timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit 

of the U.S. government. 
U.S. Treasury: 
U.S. Department of the Treasury. 
Value-at-risk (ﬁVaRﬂ): 
A measure of the dollar amount of poten-
tial loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market envi-
ronment. 
Washington Mutual transaction:
 On September 25, 2008, 
JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington 
Mutual Bank (ﬁWashington Mutualﬂ) from the FDIC for $1.9 bil-

lion. The final allocation of the purchase price resulted in the rec-

ognition of negative goodwill and an extraordinary gain of $2.0 

billion. For additional information, see Note 2 on pages 166Œ170 

of this Annual Report. 
 304JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
As of December 31, 2010 Rt. Hon. Tony Blair
Chairman of the CouncilQuartet Representative and 
 
  Former Prime Minister of  
  Great Britain and Northern Ireland
London, United KingdomKhalid A. Al-FalihPresident and Chief Executive Of˜cer
Saudi Aramco
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia Ko˜ AnnanChairman 
Ko˜ Annan Foundation
Geneva, SwitzerlandRiley P. Bechtel
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
Bechtel Group, Inc.

San Francisco, California
Hon. Bill BradleyFormer U.S. Senator
Allen & Company, LLC

New York, New York
Michael A. ChaneyChairman
National Australia Bank Limited
Perth, Western Australia
Anatoly B. ChubaisDirector General

Russian Corporation of 
Nanotechnologies Œ RUSNANO
Moscow, Russian Federation
Martin FeldsteinPresident Emeritus

National Bureau of Economic 

Research, Inc. 

Cambridge, MassachusettsArminio Fraga NetoFounding Partner
Gávea Investimentos
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 
Gao Xi-QingVice Chairman, President and 

Chief Investment Of˜cer
China Investment Corporation
Beijing, The People™s Republic 
 of ChinaJürgen Grossmann
Chief Executive Of˜cerRWE AG

Essen, GermanyWilliam B. Harrison, Jr.
Former Chairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Carla A. HillsChairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
Hills & Company International 

Consultants
Washington, D.C.
Franz B. HumerChairman
Roche Holding Ltd.
Basel, SwitzerlandHon. Henry A. KissingerChairman
Kissinger Associates, Inc.
New York, New York
Mustafa V. Koç
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Koç Holding A.S¸
   
.Istanbul, Turkey
Hon. Lee Kuan Yew
Minister Mentor
Singapore, Republic of Singapore
Akio MimuraRepresentative Director 

and Chairman
Nippon Steel Corporation
Tokyo, Japan
Patrice MotsepeExecutive Chairman
African Rainbow Minerals Limited
Chislehurston, Sandton, South AfricaMichael Pram RasmussenChairman of the Board

A.P. Møller-Maersk Group

Copenhagen, DenmarkSir John RoseChief Executive
Rolls-Royce plc
London, United KingdomRatan Naval Tata
Chairman
Tata Sons Limited

Mumbai, IndiaHon. Tung Chee Hwa GBM
Vice Chairman

National Committee of the Chinese 
People™s Political

Consultative Conference
The People™s Republic of China
Cees J.A. van LedeFormer Chairman  and Chief Executive Of˜cer, 

Board of Management

Akzo NobelArnhem, The Netherlands
Douglas A. Warner III
Former Chairman of the Board
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
John S. Watson
Chairman and Chief Executive 
Of˜cer
Chevron Corporation

San Ramon, California
Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
Ayala Corporation

Makati City, Philippines
Ex-Of˜cio MembersJames DimonChairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerJPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Andrew D. Crockett
Special Advisor to the Chairman
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
San Francisco, California
Dr. Jacob A. Frenkel
Chairman, International

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Walter A. Gubert
Vice Chairman

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
London, United KingdomDavid MayhewChairman, J.P. Morgan Cazenove

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
London, United KingdomJ.P. Morgan International Council
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
305Richard A. Bernstein
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
P&E Capital, Inc.Rod BraymanPresident

Windmill Distributing Company L.P.
Christopher B. CombeChairman 
Combe IncorporatedJoseph J. CorasantiPresident and 

Chief Executive Of˜cer
CONMED CorporationEmil DudaSenior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Of˜cer
Lifetime Healthcare Company/

Excellus Health Plan Inc.Roger N. FarahPresident and 
 
Chief Operating Of˜cer
Polo Ralph Lauren
James Fernandez
Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Of˜cer
Tiffany & Co.
Stanley FleishmanChief Executive Of˜cer 
Jetro Cash & Carry Enterprises, LLC 
Martin E. FranklinChairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
Jarden Corporation
Rachelle FriedmanPresident and 
 
Co-Chief Executive Of˜cer
J&R Music and Computer World 
Neil GolubChief Executive Of˜cer and  
Chairman of the Board

The Golub CorporationDavid R. Jaffe
President and 

Chief Executive Of˜cer
The Dress Barn, Inc.
Tod Johnson
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
The NPD Group, Inc.
Richard W. Kunes
Executive Vice President, 

Chief Financial Of˜cer
The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.Richard S. LeFrak
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
LeFrak OrganizationRichard B. Leventhal
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
Fedway Associates, Inc.John LiDestriPresident and 

Chief Executive Of˜cer
LiDestri Foods, Inc.Leo LiebowitzChief Executive Of˜cer
Getty Realty Corp.William L. MackFounder and Chairman 
AREA Property Partners
Peter MarksonChairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
Paris Accessories, Inc.James F. McCann
Chief Executive Of˜cer
1-800-Flowers.comJohn MorphySenior Vice President, 

Chief Financial Of˜cer 
and Secretary

Paychex, Inc.James L. NederlanderPresident

Nederlander Producing Company 

of America, Inc.Samuel I. Newhouse IIIGeneral Manager
Advance Publications Inc.William C. RudinVice Chairman and 
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
Rudin Management Company, Inc.
C. David SammonsPresident and 

Chief Executive Of˜cer
Subaru Distributors Corp.John ShalamFounder and Chairman
Audiovox CorporationJulie A. ShimerPresident and 

Chief Executive Of˜cer
Welch Allyn, Inc.
Kenneth L. Wallach
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer 
Central National-Gottesman Inc.Fred Wilpon
Chairman
Sterling Equities, Inc.Frank Lourenso 
Chairman 
Regional Advisory Board
Regional Advisory Board
306JPMorgan Chase & Co./2010 Annual Report
Crandall C.  Bowles 1ChairmanSprings Industries, Inc. 
(Window fashions)
 Stephen B. Burke 2, 3
Chief Executive Of˜cer
NBCUniversal, LLC  
Executive Vice President
 
Comcast Corporation (Television and 
 entertainment) David M. Cote 4, 5
Chairman and  
Chief Executive Of˜cer  
Honeywell International Inc.
 
(Diversi˜ed technology and  manufacturing) James S. Crown 
4, 5
President
 Henry Crown and Company 
 (Diversi˜ed investments) James Dimon Chairman and  
Chief Executive Of˜cer 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Ellen V. Futter 
4, 5
President and Trustee
 
American Museum of  
Natural History  
(Museum) William H. Gray, III 
1, 4
Co-Chairman 
GrayLoef˚er, LLC
 
(Consulting and advisory) Laban P. Jackson, Jr. 
1Chairman and  
Chief Executive Of˜cer 
Clear Creek Properties, Inc.
 
(Real estate development) David C. Novak 2, 3
Chairman and  
Chief Executive Of˜cer 
Yum! Brands, Inc.
 
(Franchised restaurants)
 Lee R. Raymond 2, 3
Retired Chairman and
 
Chief Executive Of˜cer 
Exxon Mobil Corporation  
(Oil and gas) William C. Weldon 
2, 3
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer  
Johnson & Johnson 
(Health care products)
 Board of DirectorsMember of:1 Audit Committee2 Compensation &    Management Development    Committee3 Corporate Governance & 
  Nominating Committee4 Public Responsibility    Committee5 Risk Policy CommitteeJames Dimon*
Chairman and  Chief Executive Of˜cer Gaby A. AbdelnourAsia Paci˜cNicolas AguzinLatin AmericaPeter K. BarkerCalifornia
Paul T. Bateman
Asset Management Frank J. Bisignano*Chief Administrative Of˜cer 
and Home LendingPhilip F. Bleser
Global Corporate BankDouglas L. Braunstein*Chief Financial Of˜cerClive S. Brown
Asset ManagementPhyllis J. CampbellPaci˜c Northwest Richard M. Cashin
One Equity PartnersMichael J. Cavanagh*Treasury & Securities Services
Guy Chiarello
Chief Information Of˜cerMichael J. ClearyBusiness BankingStephen M. Cutler*General CounselKimberly B. DavisGlobal Philanthropy
Klaus DiederichsInvestment BankPhil Di IorioAsset ManagementJohn L. Donnelly*Human Resources
Ina R. Drew*
Chief Investment Of˜cerAlthea L. DuerstenChief Investment Of˜ceMary Callahan Erdoes*
Asset ManagementJoseph M. EvangelistiCorporate CommunicationsDr. Jacob A. Frenkel
JPMorgan Chase  
International
Martha J. GalloGeneral AuditorScott GellerCommercial Banking/

Risk ManagementWalter A. Gubert
Europe, Middle East 
 
and AfricaGregory L. Guyett
Global Corporate BankCarlos M. Hernandez
Investment BankJohn J. HoganInvestment Bank/ 
Risk ManagementRob C. HolmesCommercial Banking
Catherine M. KeatingAsset ManagementConrad J. KozakWorldwide Securities 

ServicesJames B. Lee, Jr.
Investment BankDavid B. LowmanHome LendingS. Todd Maclin*
Commercial Banking
Achilles O. MacrisChief Investment Of˜ceJay Mandelbaum*Strategy & MarketingMel R. MartinezFlorida, Mexico, Central 
America and CaribbeanBlythe S. MastersInvestment BankDonald H. McCree, III
Treasury Services
Ryan McInerney
Consumer BankingHeidi Miller*International
Stephanie B. MudickConsumer PracticesMichael O™BrienAsset Management Douglas B. PetnoCommercial Banking
Daniel E. PintoInvestment BankScott E. PowellChase OperationsLouis RauchenbergerController
Richard Sabo
Chief Investment Of˜ceEmilio SarachoInvestment BankCharles W. Scharf*
Retail Financial ServicesPeter L. ScherGlobal Government 
 
Relations & Public PolicyEileen M. SerraCard Services
Marc Sheinbaum
Auto Finance and  
Student LoansGordon A. Smith*
Card Services 
Barry SommersChase Wealth Management
James E. Staley*Investment BankJack M. StephensonMobile, E-commerce and 

PaymentsIrene Tse
Chief Investment Of˜ceJeffrey H. Urwin
Investment BankWilliam S. Wallace
Card Services
Kevin P. Watters
Home LendingKevin D. WillseyInvestment BankDouglas Wurth
Asset ManagementMatthew E. ZamesInvestment BankBarry L. Zubrow*
Chief Risk Of˜cerExecutive Committee   (*denotes member of Operating Committee)
Other Corporate O˜cersJoseph S. Bonocore
 Treasurer 
Anthony J. HoranSecretary
Lauren M. Tyler
Investor Relations˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˜˚˛˝˝
˙ˆˇ˘
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
ˇ
˙
˙
˙
˜˚˛˝˚˛˙ˆˇ
˘ˇ˙˙˛ˆˇ˛
˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

˚˜˛˚˛
˝
˜˚
˝
˛˝˙
˘˙˛ˇ

˝‘

˝˝˝˝‘

˝˝˝˝†

˝‡‡‘
˝˙
˘ˇ˝˚˛ˆ
˘˚
˘˚˛
˘
˝…š
˝—
˝˝
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝
˝−‰
˝‘
˝˝˝ˆ

˝˝˝ˇ

ﬁ
˝
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

˚˜˛˚˛
ˆ˚
˘ˆ


˝•
˝−‰
˝‡
˝•
˝−‰
˝ﬁ
˝•
˝−‰


˝•
˝−‰

˝˝˝ƒ

˝˝
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
—
ƒ

˝‘
˝⁄˝‘

˝„ﬁ

˝˝
˝…

˝ˆš˝˝

˝˝˝ˆ››ˇ

˝…
˝
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

˚˜˛˚˛
˝
˜˚
˛ˇˆ˚˛

š
ﬁ
›

˝˝

˝˙ˇ
˝Ł€ˇ
˝˝š
˝›€ˇ
˝ˆ˝


˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝š
›
˝
ﬁ
˝˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

˚˜˛˚˛
˝‘

˝˝

˝›

˝‘
˝‘š
˝˝‘
˝−
˝ƒ
˝—
˝˙ˇ
˝
ƒ
˝˝
˝„ﬁ


˝ˆš˝˝

˝˝Žı
˝Ž
ı
˝šˆ„
˝˛˙†ˇ˛
˘˙ˇˆ
˘˙
˘˛ˇˆ˛˙˛
˝łœ˛˝ž
ˆˇ›
˝ﬁ
˝‘€šﬁ
˝˛˚¡˛˛
˝
˚¢œ
˝£ﬁ
“‘ˇˆ˚˛
˘ˇ˛‘ˇ
˘˛˚˛˙
˘
˝‘
˝⁄˝‘


˝˝˙ˇ

˝ˆﬁ
š
˝˝


˝€š˝˝ˇ
˝˝

˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝

˝„ˇ

˝š
ﬁ
˝„ﬁ
˝˝
˝˙ˇ

˝˝˝„ﬁ

˚¢œ
˝˝„ﬁ

˝ˆ››ˇ
˝˝
˝„ﬁ

„
˝€š
˝ˆš
˝˝£ﬁ
˛ˇˆ
˘ˇ˝˚ˆ
˘˚†
˘‘ˇ
—
ƒ
˝›€ˇš
˝š
ˆ˚˚ˇ˛
˘˛ˇ
‘š
’ﬁ˝ž
˝•
˝‘
˝˝˝

˚¢œ
˝˝˝ƒˇ
—ˇ
˝˝˝¡
˝ŒšŠ
˝
˝ƒ


˝˝˝˝•
˝‘
˝˝˝

˜¡
˝ƒˇ
˝˝˝˝˝
˝ŒšŠ
˜˚
˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˝łœ˛˝ž
ˆˇ›
˝ﬁ
˝‘€šﬁ
˝˛˚¡˛˛
˝˙ˆˇ
˘˙
ﬂƒ
˝ﬁ
˝ˇ


˝˝ﬁ


š

˝˝˝ﬁ

˝ﬁ

˝˝ˆš˝˝ˆ››ˇ

“ˇ˝ˇˇˆ
˘˛ˇˆˇ˛ˇ
˘˝
˘˘˙˚ˆ
˘’˛

˝‡‡˙˝
˝

˚

˝˜˛˛¡

˝‘
˝⁄˝‘
˝˝
ƒ
˝˝
˝−‰
˝‘

˝˝ı

˝ˆ˝ˇ

˝˚˛˛˛˛˛
˝˝ƒ
˝…
˝˙ˇ‰ﬁ
˝•
˝˝

ł˛˛
˝šˇ
˝˝˝œ˛˛˝‘‚
˜˝˝…š

˝ƒˇ
˝˝
˝ƒ
šˇ

˝˝

˝„ﬁ
˝’¦§ﬂ
˝˝—
˝•ˆˇ
˝‘
˝Œ—•‘Š

˝˝
˝ˆ˝˜˛¨
˝˝
˝ˇﬁ

˜˚˛˝˙˛˝ˆ˛˙˝ˆ




˛ˆ

˛˛˜˚˛˚˛˛˛˛˛˛†˛˜˚˚˛˝˙˝˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˙˝ˆ˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛–…˛˛˛†˛˛˛˛˛˛†˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛†˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛⁄˝˝−˛˛˛˛

˛˛˛˛˚†˛˛…˛”˛˛˛˛˚˛˛…˛˛˛˛“†˛˛˛”˛˛˛˛“˛˛˛›
˛˛˛˛˛˛›
˛˛˛˛˛˛›
˛›
˛˛˛˛
˙

˛˛˛˛†˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛‰

˝ˆ
‡


˛Œ
˛˝˙
˛˛


˛˛˜‘
‹
˛Ÿ˝ˆ

˛ˆ
˛˝˙™˚
˛˝˙˛˛˛˜‘
ı
˛Ž‰

˛‰ˇ‹

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘


›˝†˝˘˘
˝‘

−˝“
˜˝˘
‰˘…˙ˇ
›˙ˇˆƒ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ

˝
˙
†˝˘
˝‘
˝˘…†˙
˘

„˘
ˇ
ˇ˘
†ˇ˘‹
˝‘

“˝˙”
†˝
˙˝†˘˘
˝˙˝˙ˇƒ
˘…˝˘ˇ
ˇ˘
ˆ˝˙˘†˘
˘
…˘˙

˜˚
˛˝˙ˆˇ˘
ˇ˘
ˇ
˙ˇ˘




˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘

˝

ˆ
˜˚˛˚
˝˙ˆˆˇ˘
˝
