JPMORGANCHASE&CO.
Annual Report 2005JPMorgan Chase & Co.www.jpmorganchase.com
JPMorganChase&Co.2005AnnualReportJPMorgan Chase & Co.(NYSE:JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $1.2 trillion
and operations in more than 50 countries.The firm is a leader in investment banking,financial services 
for consumers,small business and commercial banking,financial transaction processing,asset and wealth
management,and private equity.A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average,JPMorgan Chase
serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the worldÕs most prominent corporate,

institutional and government clients under its JPMorgan and Chase brands.
JPMorgan has one of the largest client franchises in the world.Our clients include corporations,
institutional investors,hedge funds,governments and affluent individuals in more than 100 countries.
The following businesses use the JPMorgan brand:
Investment BankAsset Management  

Treasury ServicesPrivate Bank

Worldwide Securities ServicesPrivate Client Services 
Information about JPMorgan capabilities can be found on jpmorgan.com.Chase is a leading U.S.financial services brand serving consumers,small businesses,corporations and 
governments with a full range of banking and asset management products in local markets and throughnational distribution.The consumer businesses include:
Consumer BankingHome Finance

Credit CardAuto FinanceSmall BusinessEducation Finance
The commercial banking businesses include:
Middle MarketBusiness CreditMid-CorporateEquipment Leasing
Real EstateInformation about Chase capabilities can be found on chase.com.
JPMorgan Chase is the brand used to express JPMorgan Chase & Co.,the holding company,and is 
also used by our Treasury Services business and our Community Development Group.
Information about the firm is available at www.jpmorganchase.com.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Corporate headquarters
270 Park Avenue
New York,New York 10017-2070
Telephone:212-270-6000
http://www.jpmorganchase.com
Principal subsidiariesJPMorgan Chase Bank,National AssociationChase Bank USA,National AssociationJ.P.Morgan Securities Inc.
Annual report on Form 10-K
The Annual Report on Form 10-K of 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.as filed with the

Securities and Exchange Commission 
will be made available upon request to:Office of the SecretaryJPMorgan Chase & Co.

270 Park AvenueNew York,New York 10017-2070
Stock listingNew York Stock Exchange,Inc.
London Stock Exchange Limited
Tokyo Stock ExchangeThe New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
ticker symbols for stock of JPMorgan Chase 

&Co.are as follows:
JPM (Common Stock)JPMPRH (Depositary Shares EachRepresenting a One-Tenth Interest in 

65/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock)Certifications by the Chairman,ChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial Officerof JPMorgan Chase & Co.pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,have

been filed as exhibits to the Firm's 2005Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The NYSE requires that the Chief ExecutiveOfficer of a listed company certify annuallythat he or she was not aware of any violation

by the company of the NYSE's CorporateGovernance listing standards.Such certification
was made on June 14,2005.Financial information about JPMorgan Chase&Co.can be accessed by visiting the Investor
Relations site of www.jpmorganchase.com.Additional questions should be addressed to:Investor RelationsJPMorgan Chase & Co.270 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10017-2070
Telephone:212-270-6000
Direct deposit of dividends
For information about direct deposit of dividends,please contact Mellon Investor
Services LLC.Stockholder inquiriesContact Mellon Investor Services LLC:By telephone:  Within the United States,Canada and 
Puerto Rico:1-800-758-4651 
(toll free)From all other locations:
1-201-680-6578 (collect) TDD service for the hearing impaired within the United States,Canada and 
Puerto Rico:1-800-231-5469 (toll free) 
All other locations:1-201-680-6578 (collect)By mail:Mellon Investor Services LLC480 Washington Blvd.Jersey City,New Jersey 07310-1900
Duplicate mailingsIf you receive duplicate mailings because you have more than one account listing and you wish to 
consolidate your accounts,please write to Mellon Investor Services LLC at the address above.
Independent registered public
accounting firmPricewaterhouseCoopers LLP300 Madison Avenue
New York,New York 10017
Directors
To contact any of the Board members please
mail correspondence to:JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Attention (Board member)Office of the Secretary270 Park Avenue
New York,New York 10017-2070
The corporate governance principles of 
the board,the charters of the principal 
board committees and other governance
information can be accessed by visitingwww.jpmorganchase.com and clicking on

ÒGovernance.ÓStockholders may request 
acopy of such materials by writing to theOffice of the Secretary at the above address.
Transfer agent and registrar
Mellon Investor Services LLC480 Washington Blvd.

Jersey City,New Jersey 07310-1900
Telephone:1-800-758-4651https://vault.melloninvestor.com/isd
Investor Services Program 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.Õs Investor Services
Program offers a variety of convenient,low-
cost services to make it easier to reinvest 
dividends and buy and sell shares of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.common stock.Abrochure and enrollment materialsmay be
obtained by contacting the Program
Administrator,Mellon Investor Services LLC,

by calling 1-800-758-4651,by writing them

at the address indicated above or by visiting
their Web site at www.melloninvestor.com.
This annual report is printed on paper made from 
well-managed forests and other controlled sources withthe financial section printed on paper containing 20%post-consumer waste (PCW) recycled fibers.The paper 

is independently certified by SmartWood,a program of 

the Rainforest Alliance,to the Forest Stewardship Council

(FSC) standards.
FSC is an independent nonprofit organization devoted toencouraging the responsible management of the worldÕs
forests.FSC sets high standards to ensure forestry is 
practiced in an environmentally responsible,socially 
beneficial and economically viable way.
©2006 JPMorgan Chase & Co.All rights reserved.Printed in the U.S.A.Financial highlights
*The financial information provided on pages 2-20 is presented on a pro forma combined-operating basis.The unaudited pro forma 
combined historical results represent how the financial information of JPMorgan Chase & Co.and Bank One Corporation may have

appeared on a combined basis had the two companies been merged as of the earliest date indicated.Additional information,including

reconciliation of the pro forma numbers to GAAP,can be found on Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on

January 18,2006.For a description of operating basis,including managementÕs reasons for its use of such measures,see page 31 of 
this Annual Report.As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share,ratio and headcount data)
20052004Reported basis(a)Total net revenue $54,533$43,097Provision for credit losses  3,483 2,544Total noninterest expense 
38,83534,359Net income8,4834,466Per common share:Net income per share:Basic
2.431.59Diluted2.381.55Cash dividends declared per share1.361.36Book value per share
30.7129.61Return on common equity8%6%Tier 1 capital ratio 
8.58.7Total capital ratio           12.012.2Total assets $1,198,942$1,157,248Loans                     419,148402,114Deposits                  554,991521,456Total stockholdersÕ equity              107,211105,653Headcount168,847160,968Operating basis (pro forma)
*Total net revenue$59,149$57,760Provision for credit losses 7,2596,490Total noninterest expense  35,54935,439Earnings10,52110,289Diluted earnings per share2.952.85Return on common equity10%10%(a)Results are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six month of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
2sof year-end 
2005,Istepped down as CEOofJPMorgan Chase Ð turning the leadership of the firm over

to my partner, Jamie Dimon, who I believe will prove to be
one of the outstanding CEOsthe financial services industryhas had in a long time.As Chairman, I look forward to contributing to our growthby leveraging my global relationships and contacts and byhelping to further develop strategy.
As I look back on my 38years in the industry, all with the
same organization, I realize how fortunate I have been and

what an exciting journey I have been on. When I left a
small town in North Carolina to join Chemical Bank in1967,my goal was to spend two years in New York and
then return to North Carolina. Little did I know I would
be part of an industry and a career that were as challenging
and rewarding as these have been.Istep down as CEObelieving that:¥JPMorgan Chase is very well positioned strategically to be
one of the great financial institutions in the world.¥Size does matter in our industry Ð provided that sizetranslates into operating and scale efficiencies, increased
profit margins, stronger earnings and leadership positions. And the benefits of size can only be realized
within a culture that values teamwork, partnership 
and execution.¥One should be a leaderÐnot a followerÐas our industry
irreversibly consolidates in a globalizing world.¥A diversified model will prove to have competitive
advantage in terms of creating shareholder value 
over time.¥Managements and boards have to manage with a 
longer-term outlook and resist the pressures of the 

quarter-to-quarter mindset of the market.
¥Building the best performance culture in the industry
will ensure that all of the inherent potential of size is
harvested and maximized.¥Relationships matter Ð with clients and with each other
internally Ð and without them, a firm will never reach
its potential and be its best.¥Companies with the highest ethical values, which start at
the top and cascade all the way down, will be the greatcompaniesÐand we must keep raising the bar on how we
achieve this in a large, complex corporation.
¥Surrounding yourself with people who are smarter and
better than you are is critical because your talent pool
will be a key determinant of success.¥I have been one of the most fortunate people in the
world to have had the experience and the success I have
had, and there is not one day that goes by that I donÕtthink about this.So from a small town to a big cityÐfrom a small bank to a
big bank, I learned much along the wayÐthat you, in fact,
never stop learning. You should always commit to be thebest you can be, you should think big and dream big, and
you should think about how you can win and what your
strategic platform should be to create sustainable share-
holder value. And you should do this by always, always
having the right set of values and living by them.You learn that the peaks and valleys, the successes and fail-
ures of your job and life need to be viewed with the proper
perspective and balance, and only with that balance and
perspective can you find true north.You learn how important your family and friends are in
enabling you to maintain the passion and commitment to
be the CEOof a firm like JPMorgan Chase and how privi-leged youÕve been to have been the leader.Thus, while my JPMorgan Chase career is nearing an end, a
new chapter in our companyÕs long history is beginning. It is

time to pass the baton to a new group of leaders, led by
Jamie Dimon, who will take this firm to the next level of
performance, harvesting its vast potential and maximizing
shareholder value through great execution.Letter from William B.Harrison,Jr,
ChairmanDear fellow shareholder, 
ALet me close with a profound thanks to our shareholderswho have had the faith to believe in the potential of this
firm. Thanks to our outstanding Board of Directors for
their support and wisdom, and I want to express my 
special gratitude to retiring directors Larry Bossidy and
Hans Becherer whose advice and counsel over many years
have been invaluable. Thanks to all of our clients and cus-tomers around the world for the opportunity to serve them. And thanksÐ
168,000thanksÐto our talented and dedicat-
ed employees around the world for what they stand for and
for what they contribute every day.
Icould not be more excited and confident about our future.Sincerely,
William B. Harrison, Jr.
ChairmanMarch 8,20063William B.Harrison,Jr.,
Chairman   James Dimon
,Chief Executive Officer his is my first letter to you as the CEO of JPMorgan
Chase. From a personal standpoint, I want to share with
you some feelings and thoughts. I feel a tremendous mix ofemotions: excitement about our potential, and a great senseof obligation and responsibility both to you, our share-holder, and to those who have built our company over the
years. They have given us an exceptional opportunity Ð andwe owe them not only our gratitude, but also our commit-ment to deliver on our companyÕs potential and make them

proud of what they have helped to build. We have accomplished a great deal over the last year, and
we are excited about our progress in 2005and our plans for2006.The foundation for everything we are doing rests onaset of business principles that we believe, when executedproperly,create great companies. These principles aredescribed on our Web site: www.jpmorganchase.com. Inessence, we strive to:¥Share with you the truth and offer honest assessments of our businesses and our prospects.¥Act with integrity and honor.¥Do the right thing, not necessarily the easy or expedient thing.¥Work hard and with fierce resolve to make this a 
company of which our shareholders, employees, 
customers and communities can be proud.¥Focus relentlessly on the execution of our business principles.There are some specific issues that are integral to the suc-cess of our company. I would like to address them by

answering the following questions:    I.Are we in the right businesses?
II.Can we achieve outstanding performance?III.Are we properly managing our risks?
IV.Do we have the right people and the right 
compensation strategy? V.Are we a good corporate citizen?
Letter from James Dimon,
Chief Executive OfficerDear fellow shareholder,
T4I.Are we in the right businesses?
Let me unequivocally answer this question with a resound-ing Òyes,Ó for three reasons: each business is already wellpositionedÐin terms of size and scopeÐwithin its specific

industry; there is exceptional value in the linkages amongour businesses; and the companyÕs size, scale and brands are
acompetitive strength.Each business is already well positioned within its specific industryOur six major lines of business Ð Investment Banking,Commercial Banking, Retail Financial Services, Card
Services, Asset & Wealth Management, and Treasury &

Securities Services Ð all compete in consolidating industries.
Businesses consolidate when the vast economies of scale that
can be achieved (in systems, operations, distribution, brand
and R&D,to name a few) will benefit the customer.We cannot underestimate the power of these economic
forces. Nor can we ignore the inevitable impact they have
on our businesses. But change is hard Ð and many who
attempt it fail. The winners will be those who can provide
their customers with more access to better financial prod-
ucts and services at a lower price. In this environment, 
size, scale and staying power matter, and all of our core

businesses already havewhat it takes to succeed; but as Idiscuss later,we must continue to improve our executionskills to distinguish our company in the marketplace. Our
businesses do not and will not want for capital or invest-ment. They are well equipped to survive in good and bad
times, and our customers will continually benefit from
their stability and efficiency,as well as the investments weare able to make in technology and innovation. Our businesses belong together,and there is exceptional value in the linkages among themAs separate entities, our businesses are currently well posi-tioned; together they are even stronger.Putting our busi-nesses together makes sense only if doing so creates valuefor customers and, ultimately,shareholders. It does notwork because we want it to Ð it only works because it givesthe customer more for less, sooner rather than later.Wehave no interest in selling our customers products that theydo not want or need.In this context, the term Òcross-sellÓ can be misleading.ÒCross-sellingÓ often carries negative connotations Ð as if it
is a forced and unnatural act. In fact, it should be describedmore appropriately as Ònatural product-line extensions,Ówhich businesses have been doing successfully for hundredsof years. Wal-Mart has continually expanded the types of
products it sells. Twenty years ago, who would have
thought that it would sell lettuce and tomatoes? Theseproduct-line extensions are true also for Home Depot, com-
mercial banks, investment banks, stockbrokers and evenmanufacturers. GEAircraft Engines now finances and serv-ices what it manufactures. The essence of what makes thissuccessful is that the customer is the winner. 
By extending our product lines, we are able to leverage thesubstantial investments we have made to build our distri-bution system (e.g., branches, technology and sales people),
strengthen our brand and earn the trust of our customers.
For example, today our branches, which are our retail
stores, not only accept deposits and provide access to cash,
but also sell investments, mortgages, home equity loans,
debit and credit cards, and online bill paying services, as
well as small business loans, international funds transfers,
payroll services, annuities, etc. Our clear Ònatural productÓ set is financial services, whichis what individuals and businesses want and expect from us.
Where the products are ÒmanufacturedÓ is of little interest
to them. What is important to them and to us is our 
ability to provide a better product, or package of products,
at a lower cost. Our challenge is to view this from their
perspective and ensure that our collective resources are
focused accordingly. 
In addition to providing substantial potential for growth,our mix of businesses presents us with fertile ground for
innovation. Here are a few examples of how our businesses
are working together:Retail and CardServices.The competitive advantage is formidable when our retail bank Ð which serves almost 10million households Ð joins forces with our credit cardcompany,with its 110 million cardholders. This collabora-tion should result in excellent new products that addressspecific consumer needs. For example, we may be able to5make life much simpler for our customers by linking creditand debit cards and by offering them other products. The
results of recent efforts are promising: credit card sales in
our retail branches are up nearly 100%from two years ago. Commercial Banking and Retail.Astrong connection already exists between our Commercial Bank and our retailbranches. In fact, there are few successful commercial banksin America that do not have a retail bank Ð and for goodreason. A large share of retail business comes from small
businesses and mid-sized companies. Many use branches astheir financial back offices for cash, payroll processing and
wire transfer services. This interdependency is cost effectivefor us and beneficial to our customers. In addition, businessaccounts often lead to new personal accounts and vice versa.Investment Banking and Commercial Banking. Anatural con-nection exists between an investment bank, which essen-
tially serves large public companies, and a commercial

bank, which essentially serves mid-sized to small public
and non-public companies. Our Commercial Bank already
generates hundreds of millions of dollars in revenues from
offering its clients traditional investment banking services
(e.g., advisory, debt and equity underwriting). Over the

next few years, we believe that we can double Commercial
BankingÕs revenues from these activities. In cities like

Indianapolis, Austin, Denver and Tucson Ð where our

Investment Bank does not have a physical presence Ð local
businesses have strong relationships with our commercial
bankers. These bankers know when their clients are con-
templating transactions and need access to investment
banking expertise. The connection is valuable for clients
and beneficial to us. It enables our Investment Bank to
generate revenues from its product expertise that it could
not have previously produced without the client relation-
ship. And it enables the Commercial Bank to better serve
its clients by providing them with the additional products
that they need. Treasury & Securities Services; Asset & Wealth Management.
Another important connection exists between Treasury &
Securities Services and our other businesses. Many of our
major customers (institutional, middle market, small busi-
ness and retail) use TSSfor activities such as cash, checks,ACHpayments, wire transfer and custody. 
TSSgeneratesapproximately $9billion of annual revenue by serving thesecustomers. Asset & Wealth Management also benefits from
working with other businesses, including managing assetsfor corporate clients, helping them meet their complex pen-sion and investment needs, and offering products fromacross the company to individual clients. Plenty of other examples exist, but the critical pointremains: while each business should do well on its own, itshould also be able to capitalize on our companyÕs extensive

and unique set of products and services to more fully andprofitably meet customer needs. There is certainly no rea-son why they should do worse because they are part of this
institution. The key,of course, is that the customers mustbe the winners. The size and scale of the company are a competitivestrengthThe size, scale and scope of JPMorgan Chase also offer huge
advantages: economies of scale in operations and systems;
diversification of capital, risk and earnings; a great global
brand; and the capability to make large investments at a

lower cost of capital. In particular, the benefits of size and

scale in operations and systems are vast, and they are real.
Our diversified earning streams lower our risk, increase our
credit ratings and reduce the cost of our capital. And since
one of our major costs is the cost of money, the ability to

raise funds cheaper, better, faster and more effectively around

the world than other companies is a major advantage. But size alone is not enough to win. In fact, if not properlymanaged, it can bring many negatives. Huge companies
operating in complex, consolidating and fiercely competi-tive industries like ours can only achieve and sustain theirsuccess by competing where the Òrubber hits the roadÓÐatthe level of the store, the product and the banker Ð not atcorporate headquarters. We must equip those employees on

the front lines to be responsive and responsible. The way
we manage our size will reflect how much we recognize and
respect this imperative. Bureaucracy and waste are lethal.
To remain healthy and vibrant, we must constantly and

consistently minimize bureaucracy, eliminate waste and

insist upon excellent execution. 6II.Can we achieve outstanding performance?
ÒYes,Ó but we are not there yet. Good positioning does not
assure great performance. Creating great performance is notmystical; it takes consistent effort, focus, hard work anddiscipline. The starting point for us is to admit where we are. Anyway one analyzes our businesses, for the most part our costsare too high, our returns on capital are too low and ourgrowth is not what it could be.We are underperforming financially in many areas. We
need to understand the reasons and focus our energy on

making improvements, not excuses. We cannot afford to

waste time justifying mediocrity. Each line of business 

now assesses its performance in a rigorous and very detailed
way. Each compares results to targets in a variety of areas,

including sales force productivity, customer service and 

systems development. It is not enough for the overall business to make its profittargets. It would be unacceptable to achieve good financial

returns by reducing expenses that are critical investments
for the future or by compromising the qualityof businessthat we do. The best way to reach and sustain a higher level
of performance is to get every part of the business to step
up its game. For example, we have some businesses that, in
general, achieve adequate returns. These results are often
produced when a few exceptional business segments do the
heavy lifting for the rest. We cannot use our strengths in

one part of our business to subsidize our weaknesses in
another part. We spend a lot of time on capital and return on capital.
How we allocate capital should reflect our understanding of
how changes in the economy Ð and the likely length and
intensity of the cycles they cause Ð will affect specific parts
of our business. Where will the risks and growth opportu-nities be? For example, there willbe another recession; wejust do not know when. What we do know,however,is thatwhen it happens, our annual credit costs will increase sub-stantially.Therefore, when we talk about return on capital,we must look at it through the cycle, not just during thebest parts of the cycle.Many companies that compete in our businesses have beenwell managed and able to produce excellent results for
decades. We have every reason to be among them. Time
will tell if we are. We have made progress, but not enough.
To get outstanding performance, we must instill the follow-
ing disciplines deep into the fiber of our company.
Become lean and efficient
This is an imperative. One cannot achieve great perform-ance in fiercely competitive industries without being lean and efficient. It is irresponsible to waste our critical
resources on expenditures that have nothing to do with better serving our clients and building a great company.
Weneed to use our resources to grow,innovate, market,hire productive people and build systems. It is not justabout cutting costs. A company cannot become great just
by cutting costs. It is about building better systems to bet-ter serve our customers. It is about paying our people not
only fairly,but effectively,to help create the right behavior.It is about how we run meetings. It is about designing theright products that are also profitable. (Many companies
design products that lose money,and they do not evenknow it.) It is about constantly improving productivity.We must continually ask ourselves: Can the same invest-
ment in the same area be better spent? Does every business
strive to get the most out of its resources? The Investment
Bank, for example, has many businesses, depending upon
how you measure it. Does each business spend its money
efficiently and wisely? Are we spending the right amount
in the right way and expecting the right results? Last year,

we spent over $1billion in marketing to get 11million newcredit card accounts. Can we spend more and get even bet-
ter results? We probably can. This year, we want to both

spend more and get more from every dollar we spend.
When we determine that we can and are spending money
wisely, we will want to spend 
more, not less.Since the merger, we have realized $
1.9billion in merger
savings. However, much more is needed to achieve what we

would consider to be realefficiency. This past year, we
launched and completed major projects aimed at increasing
our efficiency and improving our customer service over the
long run. They include:7¥Completing the largest credit card conversion in history.
This effort combined over 30million heritage Chase andBank One accounts onto a single platform and providedus with a single best-in-class system to better serve ourcustomers (and at a lower cost).¥Integrating and upgrading all of our businesses in Texas Ð in terms of products, brand, systems and 
operations Ð where we have 20,000employees serving 2million customers.¥Converting all U.S.dollar clearing to one platform glob-ally, an operation that processes an average of $
3.2tril-lion daily for 200,000clients worldwide.¥Executing the largest merger of mutual fund families inU.S. history,affecting 1.1million fund shareholders.¥Completing the first and second construction phases ofour new Global Services Center in Bangalore, India, and
hiring 8,700employees to meet increased demand anddeliver more services from India.¥Migrating much of the companyÕs production, disaster
recovery, and development and test systems into a new

data center. The move increases our data storage capabil-

ity,enhances our resiliency,reduces infrastructure pointsof failure and lowers overall cost to the firm.Over this next year, we will continue to massively 
upgrade and streamline our systems and operations.
Highlights include:¥Converting and upgrading all of our operations in theNew York tri-state market, beginning in the second

quarter. This will be one of the most visible bank con-

versions in our industry and will have an impact on all
of our businesses Ð specifically, 
4.8million depositaccounts representing over $190billion, and involvesmore than 400heritage Chase branches and over 3,000teller workstations.¥Providing our retail and wholesale customers with uni-
form Internet platforms, upgrading loan origination sys-
tems and implementing a new mortgage servicing system.¥Substantially improving infrastructure, including datacenters, networks and financial management systems.We cannot build a great company unless we are unrelenting
in our efforts to be a lean and efficient company. This must
become a permanent part of our mindset.Remove barriers to successAs I mentioned before, excessive bureaucracy is lethal. Itslows us down, distracts us from our clients and demoralizesgood employees. We must act with more openness, passion

and urgency. The process of busting bureaucracy never ends,

but what is different now is that our employees are engaged
in challenging the system and solving the problems.Wecontinue to attack bureaucracy and improve all aspectsof our management practices, including:¥Accountability and decision making: Central to the changeswe have undertaken is the realignment of corporate staff.
Now embedded in the businesses are many of the staff
functions Ð like finance and systems Ð that used to be 
concentrated at the corporate level. The realignment gives
our businesses greater ability to manage their support
functions. For staff, better access to the businesses they
support provides them with more knowledge and control.
The restructuring will lead to better accountability, 

transparency and reporting, which in turn will improveexecution and overall corporate risk management.¥Management information and discipline: It is hard to act on the truth if you do not know what it is. We want

managers to have the tools and information to run their
businesses as if they owned them. With this goal inmind, we now produce thousands of increasingly accu-rate reports that provide managers with specific informa-tion on their performance. In addition, we give themtools to proactively eliminate waste and manage their
resources. Better reporting has dramatically improved
the effectiveness of our business review meetings.
Without this information, these meetings are often awaste of time. They now are convened at many levels ofthe company and focus on where we are and need to be,
relative to our own benchmarks and the best performers8ineach business. As a result of these discussions, we areable to establish real targets for our businesses in terms

of growth, margins, returns, market share, etc. 
¥People practices:We have rationalized human resource
processes by eliminating several unnecessary proceduresand personnel to place accountability for managing peo-ple squarely where it belongs Ð with line managers. Forexample, performance reviews have been revamped andsimplified, training has been streamlined and executivecoaches have been eliminated. (We think coaching is the

managerÕs job.) Performance reviews should facilitate,
not prevent, meaningful, honest and comprehensiveresults-oriented exchanges between managers and their
direct reports. Yet over time, the process grew to take onalife of its own and became a hindrance. Now the barri-ers are being removed. In addition, we have created a
forum for discussion of our talent and made people man-agement generally,and diversity in particular,part of theagenda of senior manager meetings across the company.Weremain devoted to our people and their develop-ment, but we will use management accountability,notbureaucratic processes, to prove it. Wewant our peopletocommunicate openly,easily and constructively.Focus resources where we can succeed and winWe have sold or liquidated several businesses that either
did not fit our strategy or did not contribute significantly
to our long-term success. For these reasons, we sold
BrownCo, and businesses in manufactured housing and
recreational vehicles. We also announced the sale of our

insurance business and have dramatically reduced the size of
our auto leasing business.By discontinuing or reducing our commitment to ancillarybusinesses, we availed ourselves of billions of dollars in cap-ital. Weredeployed this capital in businesses where we canwin. For example, we invested in JPMorgan Cazenove, an
investment banking joint venture in the United Kingdom
(which already shows promising results); expanded our
global trade management operations with the purchase of
Vastera; and acquired the Sears Canada private-label credit

card portfolio. In addition, we have recently completed the purchase of a consumer educational loan business,Collegiate Funding Services, that both processes and 
underwrites loans. These are all transactions that positionus for real growth.We have also freed up and redirected our capital to support
innovation. We want to make innovation part of our 
DNA.This does not mean spending hundreds of millions of 
dollars on failed ideas. It does mean, however, that we 
will take calculated risks, knowing that some will fail.Progressive thinking should be reflected in every conversa-
tion, every analysis, and every product and service we provide. We have many new products coming out this year
that we think will fill this bill.The ultimate goal: create organic growthProfitable, sustainable, properly underwritten growth is not a vision. It is the result of excellent management 
discipline, an unrelenting focus on execution, consistent
management of risk, a competitive product set and 
outstanding customer service.The level of effort and expense associated with mergeractivities and systems consolidation has been predictably
huge. So the fact that we were able to absorb the impact Ð
and still cut costs and materially increaseinvestment spend-ing Ð is a source of pride to all of us. What is even more
gratifying, however, is to see evidence of real growth in

most businesses, something that is often a casualty in 
merger consolidations. 
In 2005,real growth Ð albeit not always great growth Ðtook place across the board. Retail increased its deposits,
checking accounts and credit cards. Commercial Banking
achieved growth in leasing, middle market lending and lia-bility balances. Treasury & Securities Services producedmore custody business and had growth in liability balances.Asset & Wealth Management increased the level of assetsunder management. Card Services had growth in new cus-tomers, partners, card receivables and spending. Revenuesin the Investment Bank increased in M&A, asset-backed
securities, high-yield bonds and energy trading.9Equally important, we materially increased investment in areas that will drive futuregrowth. Specifics include: spending hundreds of millions of dollars to open 150newbranches (this will drive growth in 2007and beyond);adding more retail loan officers; hiring additional privatebankers; funding the build-out of our energy and mortgage
trading capabilities in the Investment Bank; and investingin state-of-the-art ÒblinkÓ credit card technology (whichenables customers to use credit cards for small payments
without having to sign anything). Now being piloted in six cities, blink is an investment that has put us at the fore-front of changes in payment systems and card innovation.In addition to making across-the-board investments tobuild our businesses, we are making investments in our
infrastructure that anticipate growth and prepare us to 
successfully manage it for years to come. In 2005,weinvested over $1billion in platform conversions, includingthose for Texas and Card Services. By consolidating and improving platforms, we are elimi-nating the inefficiencies and competitive disadvantages 
associated with multiple operating platforms. In the process,
we will create best-in-class platforms in many areas, such as
global cash clearing, credit card, retail branches and some of
our trading business. We believe that long-term success is

not possible without great systems and operations. They will
drive efficiency, innovation and speed to market. Much of

this will be accomplished by the end of 2006.III.Are we properly managing our risks?
Almost all of our businesses are risk-taking businesses Ðand we spend a great deal of time thinking about all
aspects and types of risk inherent in them, including:¥Consumer and wholesale credit risk¥Market and trading risk¥Interest rate and liquidity risk ¥Reputation and legal risk¥Operational and catastrophic riskThe notable fact about the first three risk areas is that theyare cyclical, and all of them have elements of unpredictabil-
ity. This requires us to be prepared for inevitable cycles. A
company that properly manages itself in bad times is oftenthe winner. For us, sustaining our strength is a strategic
imperative. If we are strong during tough times Ð whenothers are weak Ð then the opportunities can be limitless.Protecting the company is paramount. I will highlight thetypes of risks we focus on to give you a sense of the threat
they pose and how we plan for it.Consumer and wholesale credit riskOver the years, our company has substantially reduced itswholesale credit exposure by using a disciplined process for
extending credit and maximizing return on shareholder
capital. In the consumer market, we have controlled our
risk by limiting the amount of low-prime and sub-prime
credit we issue in our card and other consumer businesses.
In addition, we have decided, at the expense of losing some
volume, not to offer higher-risk, less-tested loan products,such as negatively amortizing Option ARMs. While we are taking the right steps, we estimate that in arecession, consumer and wholesale credit costs could possibly get worse by more than $5billion. This dauntingreality requires us to be prepared and well protected.
Protection #1is having larger and more durable profits to
absorb the losses. We are accomplishing this by increasing

our margins virtually across the board. Protection #
2ismaintaining a fortress balance sheet. We try to understand

and manage every asset and every liability and make sure
that someone is accountable for each one. It also means
maintaining, as much as possible, strong loan loss reserves.Finally,having a well-capitalized firm is critical. With 
Tier 1capital at 8.5%and total capital at 12%, we believe weare there. The important point is that we need to manage
the business, the balance sheet and the investments to earn
adequate returns through the cycles and to be prepared for
surprises. We do not want to realize high returns at the top,

only to give them all back at the worst part of the cycle.10Market and trading risk, and interest rate and liquidity riskWe need to manage our riskÐreturn payoff better in 
2006.In 2005,our trading volatilities were unacceptably high.The $6billion in trading revenues (not a bad result on itsown) was the result of two great quarters and two quarterswhere we underperformed. We think that is too much
volatility, and reducing it is one of our priorities. I believe
wecan accomplish this by continuing to diversify our trad-ing business, by being more disciplined and precise in theexecution of our risk management practices, and by hiringand retaining the best talent. We intend to deliver better,
more consistent results over time, while maintaining ouraggregate risk-taking appetite.The good news is that we have aggressively investedto gener-ate more diversified and consistent returns. For example, we
have added energy trading, and increased our activities inmortgage- and asset-backed securities, and principal invest-ing. Wehave leadership positions in credit markets and inour derivatives franchises, and we will continue to invest in
order to sustain them. And while in the short run, some of
this has actually increased volatility,we are convinced thatour efforts Ð consistently applied Ð will succeed. However,we caution our shareholders not to expect immediate results.Interest rate exposure is another area in which financialservices companies can assume excess risk Ð often at great
peril. As with underwriting credit, good analysis of interest
rate exposure is rooted in facts and evaluations that are
based upon a variety of realistic assumptions and scenarios.
We devote substantial resources to understanding how

interest rate changes will affect our performance. This
analysis should be Ð and will be Ð an ongoing process. We

believe that our company has carefully managed its interest
rate risk so that even dramatic moves in rates of several per-
centage points cannot alone damage the company.
Ahealthy liquidity profile is essential to the ongoing via-bility of any company, financial or otherwise. We use a vari-

ety of tools to maintain a strong liquidity position at the
parent and subsidiary companies, including stress scenarios,
collateral management and a conservative debt structure forthe company overall. We engage in a continual dialogue
with major rating agencies, and we are focused on main-
taining and improving our strong credit ratings.Reputation and legal riskThe litigation costs in business are well known. We are
intensely focused on ways to safeguard the firmÕs reputation
and exposure. They include:¥Senior management endorsement of a code of conductthat all employees must sign and adhere to, as well as a
commitment to provide appropriate training.¥Astrong and independent compliance program thatencourages employees to assist in surfacing compliance
and ethical issues, and identifying money laundering and
terrorist financing activities.¥Amore robust due diligence process focused on securi-ties underwriting transactions, where we have established
centralized oversight of our processes and standards.¥Adisciplined governance process to address conflicts andreview transactions that may present conflicts that could
harm the firm now or in the future.¥Aproductive and open dialogue with our regulators andan ongoing emphasis on staying alert to changes in regu-latory standards.We believe that these actions will mitigate our exposure,
but we recognize, unfortunately, that they will not elimi-

nate it. We have also implemented a disciplined process to

continually review our liabilities and establish appropriate
litigation reserves. While we make every effort to properly
manage the company to reduce litigation and legal costs,
we believe that our shareholders should assume that high
legal costs will continue for the foreseeable future. They
should be viewed, unfortunately, as simply a higher, perma-

nent cost of doing business than in the past.Operational and catastrophic riskThis year, we also made progress in strengthening our oper-
ational risk management programs. We have a consistent

approach across all businesses for defining and aggregating11our exposure to potential operational loss. This approachhelps us determine whether we will be adequately capital-
ized in the event of such a loss. In addition to carefullymanaging operational risk, we need to be prepared forunforeseen disasters. Catastrophic risk can take a variety offorms and significantly impair the performance and theoperations of the company. We have formal disaster recov-
ery and contingency plans in place. They worked well dur-ing Hurricane Katrina and the bombings in London, but
we must continue to refine them as new risks appear.
Whatever the type of risk, the key point is that we try tohave a comprehensive approach to managing it. Thisrequires that the right people be in the right jobs and that
there be clear accountability in each business for managing
risk in addition to rigorous corporate oversight.IV.Do we have the right people and the right 
compensation strategy?At the end of the day,it all comes down to people. We have
great people in this company. As I travel across the United

States and around the world, I have become increasingly
impressed with the talent and potential of our employees.
Rarely can a company assemble this level of creative fire-
power and professional competence.To maximize the collective strength of our people, we will
need to work better as a team. Great teams are not great
because they have star athletes. Great teams are great
because the players have learned how to work together and
focus their collective energy and talent on winning. We are

in the early stages of building a great team. The compensation cycle was difficult but productive thisyear.Weare getting better at relating pay to performance.But there is still room for improvement. Increasingly,wealso must orient ourselves to absolute performanceagainst best-in-class targets, not simply improvement in performance.Wewant to be clear and truthful when we rate ourselves,and fair as well as effective when evaluating performance.Good performance goes beyond individual productivity toinclude group, unit and company performance. Compensation
is not an entitlement; it should reflect an individualÕs and a

teamÕs contribution to helping make this a great company.
We want to be one of the best-paying companies Ð but only
when we are one of the best-performing companies.We also want our employees to feel and act like owners,
which is why stock is an important part of our compensa-tion plans. Today more than 
120,000employees own, orhave an option to own, approximately 14%of shares in thecompany. Executive Committee members are required to

retain 75%of their stock awards as long as they are withthe company. And in general, stock options are awarded on
alimited basis.Wecontinually review our benefits programs to assure thatthey are of value to employees and cost effective. For exam-ple, the company has excellent medical benefits programs,
but we subsidize them more for lower-paid employees than

we do for higher-paid employees. (I hope that this instills a

sense of pride in our managers.)In addition, we no longer match highly paid employees in their 401(k); they have adequate pensions. Wedo notoffer perks to executives like club memberships, financial
planning and leased cars. Weare reducing excessive execu-tive severance plans. But more importantly,we are paying our employees more. Our thinking is simple Ð less compen-
sation through entitlements, more from performance. 
We 
wantto pay more and let our employees spend whatthey earn as they see fit.We need to constantly remind ourselves that the most
important thing we can do for employees is to build a
healthy,vibrant company that treats people with respectand creates opportunity.Morale is not based upon perks;morale builds from respect, growth, innovation and success;from establishing a true meritocracy; from the stock per-forming well; from customers liking to do business with us.Agreat company will provide people with competitivecompensation, the opportunity to benefit as the company
grows and a rewarding career path.12V.Are we a good corporate citizen?
JPMorgan Chase has been Ð and will continue to be Ð 
agood corporate citizen. It is vitally important and enormously gratifying to all of us. Our commitment to our communities is deep, broad and multifaceted. We 
strive to be a great place to work and do business, and oursuccess allows us to give back to the neighborhoods andcities we serve. In one sense, we view ourselves as a small business. If wewere the neighborhood store, we would give kids summer
jobs, sponsor local sports teams and support community-based organizations. We operate this way in many of our
communities around the world, striving to be as supportive
as we can in all the communities we serve. We add value by focusing on issues that are universally
important, including education and community develop-
ment. We dedicate resources to develop signature programs

that help communities overcome the challenges they face in
these areas. We are morally, programmatically and institu-

tionally committed to inclusiveness and diversity. 
JPMorgan Chase contributes more than $
100million annu-ally to support local, national and international initiatives.
Examples include: ¥Chase Early Emergent Leaders 
in Arizona, where we are funding a leadership and training program, and
providing technological assistance and training in 
literacy skills. ¥Corporation for Supportive Housingin Ohio, whereweare helping the homeless as well as individuals recov-ering from drug and alcohol addiction by giving themaccess to 300units of affordable housing and providingthem with the support they need to live independent,
responsible and healthy lives.¥South Bank Centrein London, where we are support-ing music and technology education that will help bringartistic programs to thousands of young people.¥DonorsChoosein Chicago, where we are participatingin an effort that uses the Internet to connect donors
nationwide with underserved classrooms. We are helping
to expand this program for public schools in statesaffected by Hurricane Katrina.¥StreetSquashin New York CityÕs Harlem neighbor-
hood, where we are funding a community youth facilitythat will serve over 1,000students through academic andathletic programs.¥Wilmington Housing Partnership
in Delaware, whereour support is helping develop over 300affordable hous-ing units in our local communities.Our commitment to community involvement goes wellbeyond philanthropy.Across the country and around theworld, we bring this commitment to life through a broad
range of initiatives:¥Community reinvestment.Wehave received outstand-ing ratings under the Community Reinvestment Act. In
the past two years, we have fulfilled $140billion of an$800billion, 10-year commitment in the United Statesto provide community-development loans and invest-
ments, small business loans and consumer mortgages for
lower-income and minority households.
¥Community schools. We support community schools,
which cost-effectively provide students in low-income
communities with access to a broad range of services,
including academic, health and extracurricular activities.
In Chicago, we are partnering with the civic community,

nonprofit groups and the Chicago Public School system
to bring this model to scale. Todate, 120schools (20%)have been converted into community schools.¥Youth opportunity.Weprovide scholarships andinternships to the underprivileged through our Smart Start program in New York City,and intend toexpand the program to Louisiana in 2006.In both theUnited States and the United Kingdom, we work to
place outstanding students of color in summer intern
positions through Sponsors for Educational Opportunity.Weare also a significant contributor to UNCF.13¥Volunteerism.
Around the globe, employees buildhomes for people in need, work with children living in
homeless shelters, collect food and gifts at holiday time,offer companionship to seniors, maintain our parks andprovide relief to victims of disasters.¥Workforce development.
We help homeless people,
welfare recipients, individuals with disabilities, and low-wage workers move toward economic and familystability by supporting organizations like Project Match
and the hiring of individuals through the Chicago-based
Cara program. ¥Hurricane relief.When Katrina struck the U.S. GulfCoast, we tracked down our employees, guaranteed 
their jobs and provided funds to help them rebuild their
lives. We offered programs and services to customers 

and communities, and let our competitors operate out of
our branches. ¥Supporting employees serving in the military.Werecognize the hardships employees face when called to
active duty.Weare doing whatever we can to supportthem by providing paid military leave, continuing mostbenefits and ensuring their jobs are waiting for them
when they come home. Wedo not want to add financialhardship to their great sacrifice.¥Protecting the environment.Wehave adopted a com-prehensive policy that makes environmental awareness
part of our business model. We have tackled environ-

mental risk management and taken a leadership role to
reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We are looking for

ways to make our facilities more energy efficient andreduce the amount of paper we use. Of all these worthwhile efforts, the ones I find most person-ally inspiring come from our employees. All over the world,JPMorgan Chase employees of every nationality,race andsocioeconomic background give their time and put theirresources where their hearts are. They consistently stand
ready to support disaster relief around the world, whether
for victims of hurricanes in Louisiana, earthquakes in
Pakistan, floods in Mumbai or bombings in London. 
Wetake our role as global corporate citizen seriously andpersonally,and I hope that all of our employees are proud of the work we collectively do around the world.In closing, our progress would not have been possible with-out tremendous dedication and talent at every level. Firstly,

Iwant to thank Bill Harrison for his vision, leadership andgreat partnership. It has been an honor to work with himthroughout this complex merger. The experience has been 
arewarding one for me personally. BillÕs openness, honesty,
maturity and experience are a great inspiration to me. Ilook forward to his counsel and support in the future. In addition, I thank our Board. Like this merger, our Board
has come together in a very effective way, and has provided
great advice and guidance to me and the management team.Finally, I thank the employees of JPMorgan Chase for their
amazing efforts in 2005.We have come a long way and 
are well on the road to realizing the vast potential of this
company. An enormous amount of work remains, but I am

confident that by working together, we will build the best

financial services company in the world.James DimonChief Executive Officer
March 
8, 2006142006 and beyond¥Increase the consistency of our trading
results and improve return on capital.¥Continue to build out our securi-
tized products, fixed income and foreign exchange prime brokerage,
principal investments and energy

businesses, particularly in Europe.¥Expand distribution of structured
products to retail clients through
third parties.¥Invest in strategic opportunities inselect emerging markets.¥Leverage global footprintÐwork
across regions to deliver global solutions for clients.¥Leverage significant cross-sellingopportunities with Commercial
Banking, Asset & Wealth Manage-

ment, Treasury & Securities Services

and Chase Home Finance.¥Attract, develop and retain the best
talent in the industry.
Major 2005 accomplishments¥Achieved a #1ranking in both loans andhigh-yield bonds, globally and in the U.S.Ðthe first investment bank to do so.
(a)¥Achieved #1bookrunner ranking in U.S.Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
and #2globally for the first time.(a)¥Expanded our energy business, adding
power, coal and emissions to oil and gas

capabilities to diversify risk and meet
client needs.¥Integrated JPMorgan Cazenove, winning key mandates and helping toachieve #2rankings for Equities andM&A in the Europe, Middle East &
Africa region.(b)¥Acquired Neovest Holdings, Inc., aprovider of high-performance tradingtechnology and direct market access
services to institutional investors, 
asset managers and hedge funds.¥Strengthened our offerings in fixedincome and foreign exchange prime
brokerage. Investment BankJPMorgan is one of the worldÕs leading
investment banks with deep client relationships and product capabilities.

Our clients arecorporations,financialinstitutions,governments and institu-
tional investors.
We offer our clients a full platform that
enables us to develop the most complete
and innovative financial solutions in the
industry.We have global leadership posi-

tions in all our key productsÐmergers
and acquisitions advice,capital raising,restructuring,risk management andresearch.JPMorgan also participates in
proprietary trading and investing and

market-making in cash securities andderivative instruments around the world.Wecontinue to add to the breadth of
our platform through organic growth

and selective acquisitions,and by 

developing new products to meet the

evolving needs of our clients.
(a) Thomson Financial
(b) DealogicAll 2004 information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See page 1 for details.(In millions,except ratios)
20052004Total net revenue
$14,578$13,506Operating earnings3,6583,654Return on common equity18%18%Pro forma2005 highlights ¥#2 investment banking fee revenue globally(b)¥#3 ranking in Global Announced M&AÐadvised on seven of the 10 largest M&A transactions
(a)¥Participant in five of the top 10 largest equity transactions globally
¥Energy Derivatives House of the Year award (
Riskmagazine,January 2006)¥Loan House,U.S.High Yield Bond House,European Structured Equity House (
IFR,January 2006)
¥#1 Interest Rate Swaps,Forward Rate Agreements,Cross-Currency Swaps,Credit Derivatives,Interest
Rate Options,Exotic Interest Rate Products,Exotic Currency Products (
RiskEnd User Rankings,April 2005)
¥Rebranded 1,400 Bank One branches and 3,400 ATMs to Chase in 10 states,leveraging 
increased visibility to expand existing relationships and generate new customers¥Opened 150 bank branches and added 990 ATMs to make banking more convenient for 
our customers
¥Completed technology conversion in Texas,uniting 400 bank branches,850 ATMs and 
2million customerson the same platform152005 highlights2006 and beyond¥Expand branch network and sales
staff while maintaining expense discipline to achieve consistent and
profitable growth. ¥Increase mortgage origination 
market share by focusing on home
buyers and by leveraging bank
branches. Continue to add and 
integrate mortgage officers into the
branch network.¥Expand our student loan business 
to meet the needs of this growing
market. Integrate the recently
acquired Collegiate Funding Services.¥Continue investing in state-of-the-
art technology to improve the cus-tomer experience and sales process.
Convert Retail platform in the
Northeast in 2006.¥Rebrand the 
560remaining BankOne branches and retrofit 440Chasebranches in 2006.Major 2005 accomplishments¥Increased branch sales force by 
23%,boosting sales of credit cards by 62%and mortgages and home equity loan
balances by 18%. ¥Grew checking accounts by 
8%,bring-ing the total to 8.8million accounts.¥Expanded mortgage product offerings
to appeal to broader market, including
first-time and minority home buyers,
and increased focus on construction
markets. ¥Invested in high-visibility, effective
marketing to protect and enhance 
the Chase brand in the Northeast and
the rebranded Bank One markets.¥Enhanced ATM network, putting the
Chase brand on 270ATMs in DuaneReade stores (New York) and installing200ATMs in Walgreens (Arizona).Replaced 900ATMs and rebranded3,400others. Retail Financial Services helps meet thefinancial needs of consumers and small

businesses.We provide convenient 

consumer banking through the nationÕssecond-largest ATM network and fourth-
largest branch network.We are the 
second-largest home equity originator,the fourth-largest mortgage originator
and servicer,the largest non-captive

originator of automobile loans and a top
provider of loans for college students.
Weserve customersthrough morethan2,600 bank branches and 280 mortgage
offices,and through relationships 
with 15,600 auto dealerships and 2,500schools and universities.More than
11,000 branch salespeople assist customerswith checking and savingsaccounts,mortgage and home equity
loans,small business loans,investments
and insurance across our 17-state 
footprint from New York to Arizona.
An additional 1,500 mortgage officers
provide home loans throughout 

the country.Retail Financial Services2005 results reflect a special provision taken for 
Hurricane Katrina.All 2004 information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See page 1 for details.
(In millions,except ratios)
20052004Total net revenue
$14,830$15,076Operating earnings3,4273,279Return on common equity26%25%Overhead ratio (ex.CDI)
55%57%Pro forma162005 highlightsCard ServicesMajor 2005 accomplishments¥Acquired 21million net new Visa,
MasterCard and private-label accounts.¥Increased our private-label business andgained ability to issue cards in Canadaby acquiring the Sears Canada portfolio. ¥Issued more than 5million Chase cardswith ÒblinkÓ in several major metro-
politan markets, giving cardmembers
and merchants a faster,more con-venient way to pay using contactless 
payment technology.¥Increased merchant processing volumeto $563billion.¥Moved heritage Chase accounts to a new,more flexible and cost-effectiveprocessing system. ¥Completed rebranding efforts, changingmore than 51million cards to the newChase brand. Launched high-profile
ÒYour Choice. Your Chase.Ó advertisinginitiative.With more than 110 million cards in 
circulation and $142 billion in managed

loans,Chase Card Services is one of 

the nationÕs largest credit card issuers.

Customers used Chase cards for more

than $300 billion worth of transactions in 2005.Chase offers a wide variety of cards to
satisfy the needs of individual consumers,

small businesses and partner organiza-tions,including cards issued with AARP,
Amazon,America Online,Continental

Airlines,Marriott,Southwest Airlines,

Starbucks,Sony,United Airlines,UniversalStudios,Walt Disney Company,and many
other well-known brands and organiza-tions.Chase also issues private-label and
co-branded credit cards with Circuit City
and Sears Canada.
Through Chase Paymentech Solutions,
LLC,we are the largest processor 
of MasterCard and Visa payments in 
the world.¥One of the largest credit card issuers
¥More than $300 billion in charge volume

¥$142 billion in managed loans

¥More than 110 million cards issued

¥Largest merchant acquirer in the world through Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC

¥More than 850 credit card partnerships with some of the worldÕs best-known brands
2006 and beyond¥Develop innovative products and 
services to create differentiated valuefor consumers and partners and drive
growth in number of cardmembers,
outstandings and sales.¥Expand the markets we serve to reach
abroader base of customers.¥Invest in marketing and technologyinitiatives designed to position Chasefor superior long-term growth.¥Cross-sell card products to the firmÕs
customers.¥Continue to increase productivity by driving down operating cost per
active account.¥Establish Chase as an iconic brand by
continually delivering on our brand
promise through our employees, 
products and innovative new products. 2005 results reflect the impact of newly enacted bank-ruptcy legislation,as well as a special provision taken for 
Hurricane Katrina.All 2004 information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See page 1 for details.
(In millions,except ratios)
20052004Total net revenue
$15,366$15,001Operating earnings1,9071,681Return on common equity16%14%Returnonoutstandings(pre-tax)
2.21%2.08%Pro formaMajor 2005 accomplishments¥Achieved double-digit growth in treas-
ury services by cross-selling liabilitybalances, products and services. ¥Increased significantly the penetration
of investment banking capabilities to
the entire client base.  ¥Enhanced the local coverage model 
by strengthening leadership through
strategic hiring and talent management,
and by promoting diversity and devel-
oping employees. ¥Established a dedicated team to provideadvice and financial solutions to clients
with multinational needs.  ¥Converted more than 
9,000customerrelationships to a single deposit system,
providing access to ChaseÕsextensivebranch network. ¥Created operating efficiencies by 
integrating the heritage firmsÕ business
credit and leasing business systems. ¥#1 large middle-market lender in the United States (Loan Pricing Corporation,2005)
¥#1 asset-based lender in the United States (Loan Pricing Corporation,2005)
¥42% market penetration and 14% lead share in our 15-state footprint,nearly twice the lead 
share and penetration of our nearest competitor (2005 SRBI Footprint Study)
¥Average liability balances increased by more than $5.2billion(up 8%),and average loan volumes 
grew by more than $1.9 billion(up 4%)
¥Aircraft and Municipal leasing specialties expanded by leveraging existing expertise
17(In millions,except ratios)
20052004Total net revenue
$3,596$3,417Operating earnings1,007992Return on common equity30%29%Overhead ratio52%54%Pro formaCommercial Banking2005 highlightsCommercial Banking serves more than
25,000 clients,including corporations,
municipalities,financial institutions 
and not-for-profit entities,with annual
revenues generally ranging from 
$10 million to $2 billion.While most of
our Middle Market clients are within

the Retail Financial Services footprint,
Commercial Banking also covers larger
corporations,as well as local govern-
ments and financial institutions on a
national basis.Weareamarket leader with superior
client penetration across the businesseswe serve.Local market presence,
coupled with industry expertise and
excellent client service and risk man-agement,enables us to offer superior
financial advice.Partnership with other

JPMorgan Chase businesses positions 

us to deliver broad product capabilities

Ðincluding lending,treasury services,investment banking,and asset and
wealth management Ð and meet all our
clientsÕ financial needs.2006 and beyond¥Cross-sell the companyÕs extensive
product set to our existing client
base while maintaining strong creditfundamentals. ¥Expand market share through
increased prospect conversion, while
focusing on prudent client selection.¥Optimize our use of client and 
competitor information to drive 
best practices regarding the coverage
model, product delivery and cus-
tomer service. Direct investment
resources and product capability to
the highest-potential market sectors.  ¥Outperform our peers in managing
credit and operational risk.¥Continue to leverage industry exper-
tise, global capabilities and geographic
presence as a competitive advantage.¥Strengthen workforce through target-
ed training on combined product andservice capabilities. Continue to focus
on diversity efforts and initiatives.All 2004 information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See page 1 for details.
18Major 2005 accomplishments¥Delivered double-digit revenue growthand increased net earnings by 137%.¥Acquired Vastera to become the first
financial institution to offer a complete,
integrated global trade solution sup-porting both the movement of goods
and financial settlements.¥Built out alternative investment servicesby launching JPMorgan Private EquityFund Services, which provides adminis-
tration services to global private equity
firms and institutional limited partners. ¥Accomplished 54major merger mile-
stones, contributing to the firmÕs largest

systems upgrade and the integration of
Texas operations, and creating a single

processing platform for U.S. dollar
funds transfers.¥Consolidated two securities processingorganizations into one, Worldwide

Securities Services, to leverage the 
client base and product offerings and 
to achieve efficiencies.2005 highlightsTreasury&SecuritiesServices
Treasury & Securities Services (TSS) is a
global leader in transaction,investment

and information services that support 
the needs of chief financial officers,

treasurers,issuers and investors world-
wide.TSS operates through two divisions:
Treasury Services(TS) moves,concen-
trates and invests client money,and

provides trade finance and logistics

solutions.The business ranks first in U.S.dollar clearing,processing an average
of $3.2 trillion in wire transfers daily.
Worldwide Securities Services (WSS)  safekeeps,values,clears and services

securities and portfolios for investors

and broker-dealers;provides trustee

and agent services;and is a leadingmanager of American Depositary

Receipt programs.WSS is the worldÕs

largest global custodian,with $11.2 

trillion in total assets under custody
and $6.8 trillion of trust securities
under administration.¥Double-digit year-over-year growth in assets under custody (up 21%),Automated Clearing 
House Originations (up 18%),International Electronic Funds Transfer volume (up 92%) and 

wholesale cards issued (up 12%)
¥#1 in U.S.Dollar Treasury Clearing
(a),Commercial Payments
(a),Automated Clearing House
Originations(b),CHIPS
(c)and Fedwire
(d)¥#1 Trustee for new U.S.Corporate Debt,excluding asset- and mortgage-backed securities 
(by number of issues),and Global Trustee of U.S.Collateralized Debt Obligations
(e)¥#1 U.S.Commercial Paper Issuing & Paying Agent
(e)¥Liability balances increased by $29.3 billion,to $164.3 billion
2006 and beyond¥Focus on product delivery by 
customer segment.¥Continue to expand alternative
investment services.¥Leverage the full capabilities of the
firm to develop innovative solutions
and cross-sell products with the
Investment Bank, Commercial
Banking, Small Business and Asset
&Wealth Management.
¥Achieve market differentiation bydelivering competitively superior
client service.¥Continue to focus on productivityand expense control to maximize
earnings and fund investments in 
the business.¥Invest in technology and people 
to improve productivity and ensure
the reliability needed to support
quality client service and future
business growth.(a) FImetrix(b) NACHA(c) The Clearing House
(d) Federal Reserve

(e) Thomson FinancialAll 2004 information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See page 1 for details.(In millions,except ratios)
20052004Total net revenue
$6,241$5,400Operating earnings1,037437Return on common equity55%23%Pre-tax operating margin26%12%Pro forma192005 highlightsMajor 2005 accomplishments¥Achieved record earnings,
16%revenuegrowth, 38%earnings growth and a 5%improvement in pre-tax margin to 
33%.¥Completed the largest U.S. mutual fund
merger in history.¥Surpassed $
100billion in Private ClientServices assets under supervision.¥Reached the milestone of 
1million participants in our Retirement Plan
Services business.¥Became the largest seller of mutual 
funds in Europe. Generated more than
$25billion of net flows, with $19billionflowing into long-term funds and over 
$6billion into liquidity funds.  ¥Delivered strong investment perfor-
mance. Globally,74%of our long-termmutual fund assets were ranked in 
first- or second-quartile funds for the
five years ended December 31,2005.Asset & Wealth Management provides
investment advice and management 
for institutions and individuals.With

assets under supervision of $1.1 trillion,
we are one of the largest asset and

wealth managersin the world.Weservefour distinct client groups through 
three businesses:institutions through

JPMorgan Asset Management;ultra-high-net-worth clients through 
the Private Bank;high-net-worth clients

through Private Client Services;and

retail clients through JPMorgan Asset

Management.The majority of our client assets arein actively managedportfolios.Wehave global investmentexpertise in equities,fixed income,
real estate,hedge funds,private equity
and liquidity,including both money-market instruments and bank deposits.
We also provide trust and estate 

services to ultra-high-net-worth and

high-net-worth clients,and retirement

services for corporations and individuals.2006 and beyond¥Continue to deliver strong investment
performance through rigorous review
of investment strategies and diversifi-
cation of investment processes.¥Expand third-party distribution of our
investment management products and
services, capitalizing on industry
shifts toward open architecture and
outsourcing of asset management.¥Respond to increasing demand 
for absolute-return investing by
expanding our offering of alternative
products globally and staying at the
forefront of that move.¥Grow our 
401(k) and IRA
rolloverretail channels through targeted 

marketing at both the corporate and
participant levels and leveraging our
connectivity with the rest of the firm.¥Extend our Private Bank and 
Private Client Services footprint,
gain efficiencies and expand Private
Client Services investment offerings.¥$1.1 trillion in total assets under supervision at year-end
¥Grew assets under management by $56 billion to a total of $847 billion,including $32 billion of
net flows¥Created shared-services organization to leverage economies of scale between Private ClientServices and the Private Bank¥Sold BrownCo,a discount brokerage firm,for $1.6 billion
¥Successfully completed first year of integration with Highbridge,with its assets under 
management increasing by 8%
Asset&WealthManagement 
All 2004 information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See page 1 for details.
(In millions,except ratios)
20052004Total net revenue
$5,664$4,901Operating earnings1,216879Return on common equity51%37%Pre-tax operating margin33%28%Pro forma20Community Partnership
2005 highlightsMajor 2005 accomplishments¥Supported thousands of nonprofit organizations around the world.
¥Invested $70billion in the second yearof our 10-year pledge to invest $
800billion in U.S. communitiesÐthe
largest commitment by any financial

services firm. Total investment to date

is $140billion.¥Expanded our Community AdvisoryBoard to include 86members representingcommunities throughout our footprint.¥Increased management accountability forcreating a diverse senior leadership team. ¥Implemented a comprehensive environ-mental policy by adopting the Equator
Principles, guidelines that promote 
environmental and social risk manage-
ment in project financing. The policy also
addresses climate change, sustainable
forestry, habitat protection, illegal logging

and the concerns of indigenous peoples.JPMorgan Chase invests in organizations
and programs that strengthen the 

neighborhoods,schools and the econo-

mic vitality of the communities we serve
around the world.We also respond 
when disaster strikes.JPMorgan Chaseprovided programs and services to communities devastated by HurricaneKatrina.We donated millions of dollars 

to help relieve suffering caused by theGulf Coast storms,and by the London 
bombings and the Pakistan earthquake,

as well.Weexpanded access to capital in low-and moderate-income communities,providing home mortgages,small busi-
ness loans,investments,and innovative
development programs and services.
We took concrete action to protect 
the environment,adopting policies and practices to preserve our planet for
future generations.
Within JPMorgan Chase,we are building
an inclusive culturein which everyonehasthe opportunity to contribute,develop and succeed based on their talent and skills.In an increasingly global economy,the diverse experiences
and perspectives of our people are a

critical asset.¥Contributed nearly $112 million to nonprofit organizations worldwide,including funds directed
by employees through our matching-gift and volunteer programs
¥Won $75 million New Markets Tax Credit;part of the Community Renewal Tax Relief Act,this 
program facilitates investment in low-income areas.Used funds to provide capital at favorable
terms to low-income communities;will also support the work of community-development financial institutions¥Recognized as a ÒLow Carbon LeaderÓby 
BusinessWeekand the United Kingdom-based ClimateGroup for our leadership on climate change in financial services
2006 and beyond¥Continue to work with not-for-profits
around the world to effect positivechange in the communities where 
we operate. ¥Focus efforts on the credit and com-
munity-development needs of New
Orleans and the Gulf Coast region. ¥Support our communities in thethird year of our $800billion commitment. ¥Continue to develop a diverse pool of
talented employees at all levels to help
us meet the unique financial needs of
diverse individuals, families, businesses
and communities.¥Increase the energy efficiency of ourfacilities and work toward reducingour U.S. greenhouse gas emissions
over time. ¥Continue to raise employeesÕ aware-ness of environmental issues and their relevance to individualsÕ day-to-
day work. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
21Table of contents
Financial:22Five-year summary of consolidated financial highlights
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis:
23Introduction

25Executive overview

27Consolidated results of operations

31Explanation and reconciliation of the FirmÕs
use of non-GAAP financial measures34Business segment results

55Balance sheet analysis

56Capital management

58 OffÐbalance sheet arrangements and 
contractual cash obligations
60Risk management

61 Liquidity risk management

63Credit risk management

75Market risk management

79Operational risk management

80Reputation and fiduciary risk management

80Private equity risk management

81Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm

83Accounting and reporting developments

84Nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts 
at fair value
Audited financial statements:
85ManagementÕs report on internal control 
over financial reporting 86Report of independent registered public accounting firm

87Consolidated financial statements

91Notes to consolidated financial statements
Supplementary information:133Selected quarterly financial data

134Glossary of terms

135Forward-looking statements
Merger with Bank One Corporation
Effective July 1,2004,Bank One Corporation (ÒBank OneÓ) merged with and into JPMorgan Chase & Co.(the ÒMergerÓ).As a result of 
the Merger,each 
outstanding share of common stock of Bank One was converted in a stock-for-stock exchange into 1.32 shares of common stock of J
PMorgan Chase & Co.
(ÒJPMorgan ChaseÓ).The Merger was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.Accordingly,the FirmÕs results of opera
tions for 2004 include sixmonths of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results only and 2003 results of operations ref
lect the results of heritage
JPMorgan Chase only.For additional information regarding the Merger,see Note 2 on page 92 of this Annual Report.
22JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
(unaudited)(in millions,except per share,headcount and ratio data)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only
As of or for the year ended December 31,20052004(e)200320022001
Selected income statement dataNoninterest revenue$34,702
$26,336$20,419$17,436$17,943
Net interest income19,83116,76112,96512,17811,401
Total net revenue
54,53343,09733,38429,61429,344
Provision for credit losses3,4832,5441,5404,3313,182
Noninterest expense before Merger costs and Litigation reserve charge35,54929,29421,71620,25421,073
Merger and restructuring costs7221,365Ñ1,2102,523
Litigation reserve charge2,5643,7001001,300Ñ
Total noninterest expense
38,83534,35921,81622,76423,596
Income before income tax expense and effect of accounting change
12,2156,19410,0282,5192,566
Income tax expense3,7321,7283,309856847
Income before effect of accounting change8,4834,4666,7191,6631,719
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (net of tax)ÑÑÑÑ(25)
Net income $8,483
$4,466$6,719$1,663$1,694
Per common share
Net income per share:Basic
$2.43
$1.59$3.32$0.81$  0.83
(f)Diluted2.381.553.240.800.80
(f)Cash dividends declared per share1.361.361.361.361.36
Book value per share
30.7129.6122.1020.6620.32
Common shares outstanding
Average:Basic 
3,4922,7802,0091,9841,972
Diluted 3,5572,8512,0552,0092,024
Common shares at period-end3,4873,5562,0431,9991,973
Selected ratios
Return on common equity (ÒROEÓ)8%6%16%4%4%
Return on assets (ÒROAÓ)
(a)0.720.460.870.230.23
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.58.78.58.28.3
Total capital ratio
12.012.211.812.011.9
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.36.25.65.15.2
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)Total assets
$1,198,942
$1,157,248$770,912$758,800$693,575
Securities47,60094,51260,24484,46359,760
Loans419,148402,114214,766216,364217,444
Deposits554,991521,456326,492304,753293,650
Long-term debt108,35795,42248,01439,75139,183
Common stockholdersÕ equity107,072105,31445,14541,29740,090
Total stockholdersÕ equity
107,211105,65346,15442,30641,099
Credit quality metrics
Allowance for credit losses
$7,490
$7,812$4,847$5,713$4,806
Nonperforming assets(b)2,5903,2313,1614,8214,037
Allowance for loan losses to total loans
(c)1.84%1.94%2.33%2.80%2.25%
Net charge-offs$3,819
$3,099$2,272$3,676$2,335
Net charge-off rate
(c)1.00%1.08%1.19%1.90%1.13%
Headcount168,847
160,96896,36797,12495,812
(g)Share price
(d)High $40.56
$43.84$38.26$39.68$59.19
Low32.9234.6220.1315.2629.04
Close39.6939.0136.7324.0036.35
(a)Represents Net income divided by Total average assets.
(b)Excludes wholesale purchased held-for-sale (ÒHFSÓ) loans purchased as part of the Investment BankÕs proprietary activities.

(c)Excluded from the allowance coverage ratios were end-of-period loans held-for-sale;and excluded from the net charge-off rate
s were average loans held-for-sale.
(d)JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
(e)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

(f)Basic and diluted earnings per share were each reduced by $0.01 in 2001 because of the impact of the adoption of SFAS 133 re
lating to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
(g)Represents full-time equivalent employees,as headcount data is unavailable.
Five-year summary of consolidated financial highlights
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
23the largest noncaptive originator of automobile loans as well as a top providerof loans for college students.Through its Insurance operations,the Firm sells and

underwrites an extensive range of financial protection products and investment

alternatives,including life insurance,annuities and debt protection products.
Card Services
Card Services (ÒCSÓ) is one of the largest issuers of credit cards in the United
States,with more than 110 million cards in circulation,and is the largest 

merchant acquirer.CS offers a wide variety of products to satisfy the needs of its

cardmembers,including cards issued on behalf of many well-known partners,

such as major airlines,hotels,universities,retailers and other financial institutions.
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking (ÒCBÓ) serves more than 25,000 clients,including 

corporations,municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities

with annual revenues generally ranging from $10 million to $2 billion.While

most Middle Market clients are within the Retail Financial Services footprint,

CB also covers larger corporations,as well as local governments and financial

institutions on a national basis.CB is a market leader with superior client

penetration across the businesses it serves.Local market presence,coupled with

industry expertise and excellent client service and risk management,enable

CB to offer superior financial advice.Partnership with other JPMorgan Chase

businesses positions CB to deliver broad product capabilities Ð includinglending,

treasury services,investment banking,and asset and wealth management Ð

and meet its clientsÕ financial needs.
Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services (ÒTSSÓ) is a global leader in providing transaction,

investment and information services to support the needs of corporations,

issuers and institutional investors worldwide.TSS is one of the largest cash

management providers in the world and a leading global custodian.The

Treasury Services (ÒTSÓ) business provides a variety of cash management

products,trade finance and logistics solutions,wholesale card products,and

short-term liquidity management tools.The Investor Services (ÒISÓ) business

provides custody,fund services,securities lending,and performance measure-

ment and execution products.The Institutional Trust Servi
ces (ÒITSÓ) business
provides trustee,depository and administrative services
for debt and equityissuers.TS partners with the Commercial Banking,Consumer & Small

Business Banking and Asset & Wealth Management businesses to serve

clients firmwide.As a result,certain TS revenues are included in other seg-

mentsÕ results.TSS combined the management of the IS and ITS businesses

under the name Worldwide Securities Services (ÒWSSÓ) to create an integrat-

ed franchise which provides custody and investor services as well as securities

clearance and trust services to clients globally.Beginning January 1,2006,

TSS will report results for two divisions:TS and WSS.
Introduction
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(ÒJPMorgan ChaseÓor the ÒFirmÓ),a financial holding

company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968,is a leading global financial

services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States,

with $1.2 trillion in assets,$107 billion in stockholdersÕ equity and operations

worldwide.The Firm is a leader in investment banking,financial services for

consumers and businesses,financial transaction processing,asset and wealth

management and private equity.Under the JPMorgan,Chase and Bank One

brands,the Firm serves millions of customers in the United States and many

of the worldÕs most prominent corporate,institutional and government clients.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank,
National Association (ÒJPMorgan Chase BankÓ),a national banking association

with branches in 17 states;and Chase Bank USA,National Association,a

national bank that is the FirmÕs credit card issuing bank.JPMorgan ChaseÕs

principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P.Morgan Securities Inc.(ÒJPMSIÓ),the

FirmÕs U.S.investment banking firm.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs activities are organized,for management reporting 
purposes,into six business segments,as well as Corporate.The FirmÕs 

wholesale businesses comprise the Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,

Treasury & Securities Services,and Asset & Wealth Management.The FirmÕs

consumer businesses comprise Retail Financial Services and Card Services.

A description of the FirmÕs business segments,and the products and services

they provide to their respective client bases,follows.
Investment BankJPMorgan Chase is one of the worldÕs leading investment banks,as 

evidenced by the breadth of the Investment Bank client relationships and
product capabilities.The Investment Bank (ÒIBÓ) has extensive relationships

with corporations,financial institutions,governments and institutional

investors worldwide.The Firm provides a full range of investment banking

products and services in all major capital markets,including advising on

corporate strategy and structure,capital raising in equity and debt markets,

sophisticated risk management,and market-making in cash securities and

derivative instruments.The Investment Bank also commits the FirmÕs own

capital to proprietary investing and trading activities.
Retail Financial ServicesRetail Financial Services (ÒRFSÓ) includes Home Finance,Consumer & Small

Business Banking,Auto & Education Finance and Insurance.Through this

group of businesses,the Firm provides consumers and small businesses with a

broad range of financial products and services including deposits,investments,

loans and insurance.Home Finance is a leading provider of consumer real

estate loan products and is one of the largest originators and servicers of home
mortgages.Consumer & Small Business Banking offers one of the largest

branch networks in the United States,covering 17 states with 2,641 branches

and 7,312 automated teller machines (ÒATMsÓ).Auto & Education Finance is
This section of the Annual Report provides managementÕs discussion
and analysis (ÒMD&AÓ) of the financial condition and results of opera-
tions for JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of terms on pages 134Ð135

for definitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A
included in this Annual Report contains statements that are forward-
looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and
expectations of JPMorgan ChaseÕs management and are subject to 
significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties couldcause JPMorgan ChaseÕs results to differ materially from those set forth in

such forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties
are described herein (see Forward-looking statements on page 135 of
this Annual Report) and in the JPMorgan Chase Annual Report on 
Form 10ÐK (ÒForm 10ÐKÓ) for the year ended December 31, 2005, in
Part I, Item 1A: Risk factors, to 
which reference is hereby made.ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
24JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Asset & Wealth Management
Asset & Wealth Management (ÒAWMÓ) provides investment advice and 

management for institutions and individuals.With Assets under supervision of

$1.1 trillion,AWM is one of the largest asset and wealth managers in the world.

AWM serves four distinct client groups through three businesses:institutions

through JPMorgan Asset Management;ultra-high-net-worth clients through the

Private Bank;high-net-worth clients through Private Client Services;and retail

clients through JPMorgan Asset Management.The majority of AWMÕs client

assets are in actively managed portfolios.AWM has global investment expertise

in equities,fixed income,real estate,hedge funds,private equity and liquidity,

including both money market instruments and bank deposits.AWM also pro-

vides trust and estate services to ultra-high-net-worth and high-net-worth

clients,and retirement services for corporations and individuals.
2005 Business events Collegiate Funding Services
On March 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase acquired,for approximately $663 million,

Collegiate Funding Services,a leader in student loan servicing and consolida-

tion.This acquisition will enable the Firm to create a comprehensive education

finance business.
BrownCo
On November 30,2005,JPMorgan Chase sold BrownCo,an on-line deep-

discount brokerage business,to E*TRADE Financial for a cash purchase price

of $1.6 billion.JPMorgan Chase recognized an after-tax gain of $752 million.
Sears Canada credit card business 
On November 15,2005,JPMorgan Chase purchased Sears Canada Inc.Õs 

credit card operation,including both the private-label card accounts and the

co-branded Sears MasterCard
¨accounts.The credit card operation includes
approximately 10 million accounts with $2.2 billion (CAD$2.5 billion) in 

managed loans.Sears Canada and JPMorgan Chase entered into an ongoing

arrangement under which JPMorgan Chase will offer private-label and co-

branded credit cards to both new and existing customers of Sears Canada.
Chase Merchant Services,Paymentech integration
On October 5,2005,JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corp.completed the 

integrationof the companiesÕ jointly owned Chase Merchant Services and

Paymentech merchant businesses,to be operated under the name of Chase

Paymentech Solutions,LLC.The joint venture is the largest financial transaction

processor in the U.S.for businesses accepting credit card payments via traditional

point of sale,Internet,catalog and recurring billing.As a result of the integration

into a joint venture,Paymentech has been deconsolidated and JPMorgan ChaseÕs

ownership interest in this joint venture is accounted for in accordance with the
equity method of accounting.Neovest Holdings,Inc.
On September 1,2005,JPMorgan Chase completed its acquisition of Neovest

Holdings,Inc.,a provider of high-performance trading technology and direct

market access.This transaction will enable the Investment Bank to offer a

leading,broker-neutral trading platform across asset classes to institutional

investors,asset managers and hedge funds.
Enron litigation settlement

On June 14,2005,JPMorgan Chase announced that it had reached an 

agreement in principle to settle,for $2.2 billion,the Enron class action litigation

captioned Newby v.Enron Corp.The Firm also recorded a nonoperating

charge of $1.9 billion (pre-tax) to cover the settlement and to increase its
reserves for certain other remaining material legal matters.
Vastera
On April 1,2005,JPMorgan Chase acquired Vastera,a provider of global

trade management solutions,for approximately $129 million.VasteraÕs business

was combined with the Logistics and Trade Services businesses of TSSÕ

Treasury Services unit.Vastera automates trade management processes asso-

ciated with the physical movement of goods internationally;the acquisition

enables TS to offer management of information and processes in support of

physical goods movement,together with financial settlement.
WorldCom litigation settlement
On March 17,2005,JPMorgan Chase settled,for $2.0 billion,the WorldCom,

Inc.class action litigation.In connection with the settlement,JPMorgan Chase

increased the FirmÕs Litigation reserve by $900 million.
JPMorgan Partners
On March 1,2005,the Firm announced that the management team of JPMorgan

Partners,LLC,a private equity unit of the Firm,will become independent when it

completes the investment of the current $6.5 billion Global Fund,which it advises.

The buyout and growth equity professionals of JPMorgan Partners will form a

new independent firm,CCMP Capital,LLC,and the venture professionals will

separately form a new independent firm,Panorama Capital,LLC.JPMorgan Chase

has committed to invest the lesser of $875 million or 24.9% of the limited part-
nership interests in the fund to be raised by CCMP Capital,and has committed

to invest the lesser of $50 million or 24.9% of the limited partnership interests
in the fund to be raised by Panorama Capital.The investment professionals of

CCMP and Panorama will continue to manage the JPMP investments pursuant

to a management agreement with the Firm.CazenoveOn February 28,2005,JPMorgan Chase and Cazenove Group plc (ÒCazenoveÓ)

formed a business partnership which combined CazenoveÕs investment banking

business and JPMorgan ChaseÕs U.K.-based investment banking business in

order to provide investment banking services in the United Kingdom and
Ireland.The new company is called JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings.
Subsequent events Sale of insurance underwriting business

On February 7,2006,JPMorgan Chase announced that the Firm has agreed

to sell its life insurance and annuity underwriting businesses to Protective 

Life Corporation for a cash purchase price of approximately $1.2 billion.The

sale,which includes both the heritage Chase insurance business and the life

business that Bank One had bought from Zurich Insurance in 2003,is subject

to normal regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the third quarter 

of 2006.JPMorgan Chase anticipates the transaction will have no material

impact on earnings.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
25Executive overview This overview of managementÕs discussion and analysis highlights selectedinformation and may not contain all of the information that is important toreaders of this Annual Report. For a more complete understanding of events,trends and uncertainties, as well as the liquidity, capital, credit and marketrisks, and the critical accounting estimates, affecting the Firm and the lines of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety.Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase
As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
20052004(a)ChangeTotal net revenue
$54,533
$43,09727%
Provision for credit losses3,4832,54437
Total noninterest expense
38,83534,35913
Net income8,4834,46690
Net income per share Ð diluted
2.381.5554
Average common equity
105,50775,64139
Return on common equity (ÒROEÓ)8%6%Loans$419,148
$402,1144%
Total assets
1,198,9421,157,2484
Deposits554,991521,4566
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.5%8.7%Total capital ratio
12.012.2(a)Includes six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan
Chase results.
Business overview2005 represented the FirmÕs first full year as a merged company;2004 included
six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan

Chase results.Therefore,comparisons between the two years are significantly

affected by the Merger.In addition,other key factors affecting 2005 results

included litigation charges to settle the Enron and Worldcom class actions,a

special provision for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina,the impact of the

new bankruptcy legislation on credit card charge-offs and the sale of BrownCo,

as well as the global economic and market environments.
In 2005,the Firm successfully completed a number of milestones in the execution
of its Merger integration plan.Key accomplishments included:launching a

national advertising campaign that introduced a modernized Chase brand;the

conversion of 1,400 Bank One branches,3,400 ATMs and millions of Bank One

credit cards to the Chase brand;completing the operating platform conversion

in Card Services;and executing a major systems conversion in Texas that united

400 Chase and Bank One branches and over 800 ATMs under common systems

and branding.These accomplishments resulted in continued efficiencies from

the Merger,and the Firm made significant progress toward reaching the merger-

related savings target of approximately $3.0 billion by the end of 2007.The Firm

realized approximately $1.5 billion of merger savings in 2005,bringing estimated

cumulative savings to $1.9 billion,and the annualized run-rate of savings entering

2006 is approximately $2.2 billion.In order to achieve these savings,the Firm

expensed merger-related costs of $722 million during the year,bringing the total

cumulative amount expensed since the Merger announcement to $2.1 billion.
Management continues to estimate remaining Merger costs of approximately

$0.9 billion to $1.4 billion,which are expected to be expensed over the next

two years.
The Board of Directors announced in the fourth quarter that James Dimon,
President and Chief Operating Officer,would succeed Chairman and Chief

Executive Officer William B.Harrison,Jr.as Chief Executive Officer on

December 31,2005.Mr.Harrison remains Chairman of the Board.
The Firm reported 2005 net income of $8.5 billion,or $2.38 per share,compared
with net income of $4.5 billion,or $1.55 per share,for 2004.The return on

common equity was 8% compared with 6% in 2004.
Results included $2.0 billion in after-tax charges,or $0.57 per share,which
included nonoperating litigation charges of $1.6 billion and Merger costs of

$448 million.Excluding these charges,operating earnings were $10.5 billion,or

$2.95 per share,and return on common equity was 10%.Operating earnings

represent business results without merger-related costs,nonoperating litiga-

tion-related charges and recoveries,and costs related to conformance of

accounting policies.
In 2005,both the U.S.and global economies continued to expand.Gross
domestic product increased by an estimated 3.0% globally with the U.S.

economy growing at a slightly faster pace.The U.S.economy experienced

continued rising short-term interest rates,which were driven by Federal

Reserve Board actions during the course of the year.The federal funds rate

increased from 2.25% to 4.25% during the year,and the yield curve flattened

as long term interest rates remained broadly steady.Equity markets,both

domestic and international,reflected positive performance,with the S&P 500

up 3% and international indices increasing over 20%.Capital markets activity

was very strong during 2005,with debt and equity underwriting and merger

and acquisition activity surpassing 2004 levels.The U.S.consumer sector

showed continued strength buoyed by overall economic strength,which 

benefited from good levels of employment and retail sales that increased 
versus the prior year.This strength came despite slowing mortgage origination

and refinance activity as well as significantly higher bankruptcy filings due to
the new bankruptcy legislation which became effective in October 2005.The 2005 economic environment was a contributing factor to the performance
of the Firm and each of its businesses.The overall economic expansion and

strong level of capital markets activity helped to drive new business volume

and sales growth within each business.The interest rate environment negatively

affected both wholesale and consumer loan spreads,though wholesale 

liability spreads widened over the course of the year,benefiting Treasury &

Securities Services and Commercial Banking.Additionally,the creditquality of

the loan portfolio continued to remain strong,reflecting the beneficialeconomic

environment,despite the impacts of accelerated bankruptcy filings and

Hurricane Katrina.The discussion that follows highlights,on an operating basis and excluding the
impact of the Merger,the performance of each of the FirmÕs lines of business.
Investment Bank operating earnings benefited from higher revenue and a
continued benefit from the Provision for credit losses,which were offset by

increased compensation expense.Revenue growth was driven by higher,

although volatile,fixed income trading results,stronger equity commissions

and improved investment banking fees,all of which benefited from strength 

in global capital markets activity.Investment banking fees had particular

strength in advisory,reflecting in part the benefit of the business partnership

with Cazenove,which was formed in February of 2005.As in 2004,the
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
26JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Provision for credit losses in 2005 was a benefit to earnings,mainly due to
continued improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio.The increase

in expensewas primarily the result of higher performance-based incentive

compensation due to increased revenues.
Retail Financial Services operating earnings benefited from the overall strength
of the U.S.economy,which led to increased deposit,home equity and mortgage

balances.In addition to the benefit from higher balances,revenues increased

due to improved mortgage servicing rights (ÒMSRsÓ) risk management
results.Expenses declined,reflecting ongoing efficiency improvements across

all businesses even as investments continued in retail banking distribution
and sales,with the net addition during the year of 133 branch offices,662

ATMs and over 1,300 personal bankers.These benefits were offset partially 

by narrower spreads on loans due to the interest rate environment and net

losses associated with loan portfolio sale activity.The provision for credit losses

benefited from improved credit trends in most consumer lending portfolios and
from loan portfolio sales,but was affected negatively by a special provision

related to Hurricane Katrina.Card Services operating earnings benefited from lower expenses driven by
merger savings and greater efficiencies from the operating platform conversion,

which resulted in lower processing and compensation costs.Revenue benefited

from higher loan balances and customer charge volume resulting from marketing

initiatives and increased consumer spending.Partially offsetting this growth

were narrower spreads on loan balances due to an increase in accounts in
their introductory rate period and higher interest rates.The managed provision

for credit losses increased due to record levels of bankruptcy-related charge-offs
related to the new bankruptcy legislation that became effective in October
2005 and a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.Despite these events,

underlying credit quality remained strong,with a managednet charge-offr
atio of5.21%,down from 5.27% in 2004.
Commercial Banking operating earnings benefited from wider spreads and higher
volumes related to liability balances and increased loan balances.Partiallyoffset-

ting these benefits were narrower loan spreads related to competitive pressures
in some markets and lower deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates.

The provision for credit losses increased due to a special provision related to

Hurricane Katrina,increased loan balances and refinements in the data used to

estimate the allowance for credit losses.However,the underlying credit quality

in the portfolio was strong throughout the year,as evidenced by lower net

charge-offs and nonperforming loans compared with 2004.Treasury & Securities Services operating earnings grew significantly in 2005.
Revenue growth resulted from business growth and widening spreads on,
and growth in,liability balances,all of which benefited from global economic

strength and capital market activity.Partially offsetting this growth were

lower deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates.Expenses decreased

due to lower software impairment charges,partially offset by higher compen-

sation expense resulting from new business growth,the Vastera acquisition

completed in April,and by charges taken in the secondquarter to terminate a

client contract.
Asset & Wealth Management operating earnings benefited from net asset
inflows and asset appreciation,both the result of favorable capital markets

and improved investment performance,which resulted in an increased level of

Assets under management.Results also benefited from the acquisition of a

majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management in the fourth quarter of2004 and growth in deposit and loan balances.Expenses increased due pri-
marily to the acquisition of Highbridge and higher performance-based incentive
compensation related to increased revenue.
Corporate segment operating earnings were affected negatively by repositioning
of the Treasury Investment portfolio.This decline was offset partially by the

gain on the sale of BrownCo of $1.3 billion (pre-tax) and improved Private

Equity results.
The Firm had,at year-end,total stockholdersÕ equity of $107 billion,and a Tier 1
capital ratio of 8.5%.The Firm purchased $3.4 billion,or 93.5 million shares of

common stock during the year.
2006 Business outlook
The following forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefsand expectations of JPMorgan ChaseÕs management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could causeJPMorgan ChaseÕs results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. JPMorgan ChaseÕs outlook for 2006 should be viewed against the backdrop

of the global economy,financial markets and the geopolitical environment,all

of which are integrally linked.While the Firm considers outcomes for,and has

contingency plans to respond to,stress environments,the basic outlook for

2006 is predicated on the interest rate movements implied in the forward rate

curve for U.S.treasuries,the continuation of favorable U.S.and international

equity markets and continued expansion of the global economy.
The performance of the FirmÕs capital markets and wholesale businesses are
affected by overall global economic growth and by financial market movements

and activity levels.The Investment Bank enters 2006 with a strong investment

banking fee pipeline and continues to focus on new product expansion initiatives,

such as commodities and securitized products,which are intended to benefit

growth and reduce volatility in trading results over time.Compared with 2005,

the Investment Bank anticipates lower credit portfolio revenues due to
reducedgains from 
loan workouts.Asset & Wealth Management anticipates
continued growth drivenby 
continued net inflows to Assets under supervision.
Treasury & Securities Services and Commercial Banking expect growth due to

increased business activity and product sales.
Retail Financial Services anticipates benefiting from the expanded branch 
network and salesforce,and improved sales productivity and cross-selling in

the branches,partially offset by pressure on loan and deposit spreads due to

the higher interest rate environment.The acquisition of Collegiate Funding

Services is expected to contribute modestly to earnings in 2006.Card Services anticipates that managed receivables will grow in line with 
the overall credit card industry,benefiting from marketing initiatives,new

partnerships and the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business.

Revenues and expenses also will reflect the full-year impact of the Paymentech

deconsolidation and the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business.
The Corporate segment includes Private Equity,Treasury and other corporate
support units.The revenue outlook for the Private Equity business is directly

related to the strength of the equity markets and the performance of the under-

lying portfolio investments.If current market conditions persist,the Firm antici-

pates continued realization of private equity gains in 2006,but results can be

volatile from quarter to quarter.It is anticipated that Treasury net interest
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
27income will gradually improve and that the net loss in Other Corporate will be
reduced as merger savings and other expense reduction initiatives,such as less

excess real estate,are realized.
The Provision for credit losses in 2006 is anticipated to be higher than in
2005,primarily driven by a trend toward a more normal level of provisioning

for credit losses in the wholesale businesses.The consumer Provision for credit

losses in 2006 should reflect generally stable underlying asset quality.

However,it is anticipated that the first half of 2006 will experience lower

credit card net charge-offs,as the record level of bankruptcy filings in the

fourth quarter of 2005 are believed to have included bankruptcy filings that
would otherwise have occurred in 2006.The second half of 2006 is expected
Consolidated results of operations
The following section provides a comparative discussion of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs consolidated results of operations on a reported

basis for the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. 
Factors that are related primarily to a single business segment are
discussed in more detail within that business segment than they
are in this consolidated section. For a discussion of the Critical
accounting estimates used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated
results of operations, see pages 81Ð83 of this Annual Report.
RevenueYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Investment banking fees$4,088
$3,537$2,890
Trading revenue
5,8603,6124,427
Lending & deposit related fees3,3892,6721,727
Asset management,administration 
and commissions10,3908,1656,039
Securities/private equity gains 
4731,8741,479
Mortgage fees and related income1,054806790
Credit card income6,7544,8402,466
Other income2,694830601
Noninterest revenue34,702
26,33620,419
Net interest income19,831
16,76112,965
Total net revenue$54,533
$43,097$33,384
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2005 compared with 2004
Total net revenue for 2005 was $54.5 billion,up 27% from 2004,primarily

due to the Merger,which affected every revenue category.The increase from

the prior year also was affected by a $1.3 billion gain on the sale of BrownCo;

higher Trading revenue;and higher Asset management,administration and

commissions,which benefited from several new investments and growth in
Assets under management and assets under custody.These increases were offset

partly by available-for-sale (ÒAFSÓ) securities losses as a result of repositioning of

the FirmÕs Treasury investment portfolio.The discussions that follow highlight 

factors other than the Merger that affected the 2005 versus 2004 comparison.The increase in Investment banking fees reflected continued strength in advisory,
equity and debt underwriting,with particular growth in Europe,which benefited

from the business partnership with Cazenove.Trading revenue increased from

2004,reflecting strength in fixed income,equities and commodities.For a 

further discussion of Investment banking fees and Trading revenue,which are

primarily recorded in the IB,see the IB segment results on pages 36Ð38 of

this Annual Report.
The higher Lending & deposit-related fees were driven by the Merger;absent
the effects of the Merger,the deposit-related fees would have been lower

due to rising interest rates.In a higher interest-rate environment,the value of

deposit balances to a customer is greater,resulting in a reduction of deposit-

related fees.For a further discussion of liability balances (including deposits)

see the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 47Ð48 and 49Ð50,

respectively,of thisAnnual Report.
The increase in Asset management,administration and commissions revenue
was driven by incremental fees from several new investments,including a

majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management,LLC,the business part-

nership with Cazenove and the acquisition of Vastera.Also contributing to the

higher level of revenue was an increase in Assets under management,reflecting

net asset inflows,mainly in equity-related products,and global equity market

appreciation.In addition,Assets under custody were up due to market value

appreciation and new business.Commissions rose as a result of a higher 

volume of brokerage transactions.For additional information on these fees

and commissions,see the segment discussions for IB on pages 36Ð38,AWM

on pages 51Ð52 and TSS on pages 49Ð50 of this Annual Report.
to include increased credit card delinquencies and net charge-offs as a resultof implementation of new FFIEC minimum payment rules.
Firmwide expenses are anticipated to benefit as the run rate of merger savings
is expected to reach approximately $2.8 billion by the end of 2006 driven by

activities such as the tri-state retail conversion and data center upgrades.

Offsetting the merger savings will be continued investment in distribution
enhancements and new product offerings;extensive merger integration activities

and upgrading of technology;and expenses related to recent acquisitions,such

as the Sears Canada credit card business and Collegiate Funding Services.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
28JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The decline in Securities/private equity gains reflected $1.3 billion of securities
losses,as compared with $338 million of gains in 2004.The losses resulted

primarily from repositioning the FirmÕs Treasury investment portfolio in

response to risinginterest rates.The securities losses were offset partly by

higher private equity gains due to a continuation of favorable capital markets

conditions.For a further discussion of Securities/private equity gains,which

are recorded primarily in the FirmÕs Treasury and Private Equity businesses,see

the Corporate segment discussion on pages 53Ð54 of this Annual Report.
Mortgage fees and related income increased due to improvements in riskmanagement results related to MSR assets.
Mortgage fees and related incomeexclude the impact of NII and AFS securities gains related to home mortgage

activities.For a discussion of Mortgage fees and related income,which is

recorded primarily in RFSÕs Home Finance business,see the segment discussion

for RFS on pages 39Ð44 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income rose as a result of higher interchange income associatedwith the increase in charge volume.This increase was offset partially by higher

volume-driven payments to partners;rewards expense;and the impact of the

deconsolidation of Paymentech,which was deconsolidated upon completion

of the integration of Chase Merchant Services and the Paymentech merchant

processing businesses in 2005.For a further discussion of Credit card income,

see CS segment results on pages 45Ð46 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Other income primarily reflected a $1.3 billion pre-tax gain on
the sale of BrownCo to E*TRADE Financial;higher gains from loan workouts
and loan sales;and higher revenues as a result of a shift from financing leases

to operating leases in the auto business.These gains were offset partly by

write-downs on auto loans that were transferred to held-for-sale and a one-

time gain in 2004 on the sale of an investment.Net interest income rose as a result of higher average volume of,and wider
spreads on,liability balances.Also contributing to the increase was higher

average volume of wholesale and consumer loans,in particular,home equity

and credit card loans.These increases were offset partially by narrower

spreads on consumer and wholesale loans and on trading assets,as well as

reduced Treasury investment portfolio levels.The FirmÕs total average interest-

earning assets in 2005 were $916 billion,up 23% from the prior year.The net

interestyield on these assets,on a fully taxable-equivalent basis,was 2.19%,

a decrease of six basis points from the prior year.
2004 compared with 2003
Total net revenues,at $43.1 billion,rose by $9.7 billion,or 29%,primarily

due to the Merger,which affected every category of Total net revenue.The

discussion that follows highlights factors other than the Merger that affected
the 2004 versus 2003 comparison.The increase in Investment banking fees was driven by significant gains in
underwriting and advisory activities as a result of increased global market 

volumes and market share gains.Trading revenue declined by 18%,primarily

due to lower portfolio management results in fixed income and equities.
Lending & deposit related fees were up from 2003 due to the Merger.The rise
was offset partially by lower deposit-related fees,as clients paid for services

with deposits versus fees due to rising interest rates.Throughout 2004,

deposit balances grew in response to rising interest rates.
The increase in Asset management,administration and commissions was
driven also by the full-year impact of other acquisitions Ð such as EFS in
January 2004,Bank OneÕs Corporate Trust business in November 2003 and

JPMorgan Retirement Plan Services in June 2003 Ð as well as the effect of
global equity market appreciation,net asset inflows and a better product

mix.In addition,a more active market for trading activities in 2004 resulted

in higher brokerage commissions.
Securities/private equity gains for 2004 rose from the prior year,primarily
fueled by the improvement in the FirmÕs private equity investment results.This

change was offset by lower securities gains on the Treasury investment portfo-

lio as a result of lower volumes of securities sold,and lower gains realized on

sales due to higher interest rates.Additionally,RFSÕs Home Finance business

reported losses in 2004 on AFS securities,as compared with gains in 2003.For

a further discussion of securities gains,see the RFS and Corporate segment

discussions on pages 39Ð44and 53Ð54,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Mortgage fees and related income rose as a result of higher servicing revenue;this improvement was offset partially by lower MSR risk management results

and prime mortgage production revenue,and by lower gains from sales and

securitizations of subprime loans as a result of managementÕs decision in

2004 to retain these loans.Mortgage fees and related income exclude the

impact of NII and securities gains related to home mortgage activities.
Credit card income increased from 2003 as a result of higher customercharge volume,which resulted in increased interchange income,and higher

credit card servicing fees associated with an increase of $19.4 billion in average

securitized loans.The increases were offset partially by higher volume-driven

payments to partners and rewards expense.
The increase in Other income from 2003 reflected gains on leveraged lease
transactions,the sale of an investment in 2004 and higher net results from

corporate- and bank-owned life insurance policies.These positive factors in

2004 were offset partially by gains on sales of several nonstrategic businesses

and real estate properties in 2003.Net interest income rose from 2003 as growth in volumes of consumer loansand deposits,as well as wider spreads on deposits,contributed to higher net

interest income.These positive factors were offset partially by lower wholesale

loan balances in the IB and tighter spreads on loans,investment securities and

trading assets stemming from the rise in interest rates.The FirmÕs total average

interest-earning assets for 2004 were $744 billion,up $154 billion from 2003.

The net interest yield on these assets,on a fully taxable-equivalent basis,was

2.25% in 2004,an increase of four basis points from the prior year.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
29Compensation expense rose as a result of higher performance-based incentives;additional headcount due to the insourcing of the FirmÕs global technology

infrastructure (effective December 31,2004,whenJPMorgan Chase terminated

the FirmÕs outsourcing agreement with IBM);the impact of several investments,

including Cazenove,Highbridge and Vastera;the accelerated vesting of certain

employee stock options;and business growth.The effect of the termination 

of the IBM outsourcing agreement was to shift expenses from Technology

and communications expense to Compensation expense.The increase in

Compensation expense was offset partially by merger-related savings through-

out the Firm.For a detailed discussion of employee stock-based incentives,see

Note 7 on pages 100Ð102 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Occupancy expense was primarily due to the Merger,partially
offset by lower charges for excess real estate and a net release of excess
property tax accruals,compared with $103 million of charges for excess real

estate in 2004.Technology and communications expense was down only slightly.This reduction
reflects the offset of six months of the combined FirmÕs results for 2004

against the full-year 2005 impact from termination of the JPMorgan Chase
outsourcing agreement with IBM.The reduction in Technology and communi-

cations expense due to the outsourcing agreement termination is mostly 
offset by increases in Compensation expense related to additional headcount
and investments in the FirmÕs hardware and software infrastructure.
Professional and outside services were higher compared with the prior yearas a result of the insourcing of the FirmÕs global technology infrastructure,

upgrades to the FirmÕs systems and technology,and business growth.These

expenses were offset partially by expense-management initiatives.
Marketing expense was higher compared with the prior year,primarily as a
result of the Merger and the cost of advertising campaigns to launch the new
Chase brand.
The increase in Other expense reflected incremental expenses related to
investments made in 2005,as well as an increase in operating charges for

legal matters.Also contributing to the increase was a $93 million charge

taken by TSS to terminate a client contract and a $40 million charge taken 

by RFS related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture.These items

were offset partially by lower software impairment write-offs,merger-related

savings and other efficiencies.
For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs,refer to Note
15 and Note 8 on pages 114Ð116 and 103,respectively,of this Annual Report.
The 2005 nonoperating Litigation reserve charges that were recorded by the
Firm were as follows:a $1.9 billion charge related to the settlement of the

Enron class action litigation and for certain other material legal proceedings 
anda $900 million charge for the settlement costs of the WorldCom class

action litigation;these were partially offset by a $208 million insurance recovery

relatedto certain material litigation.In comparison,2004 included a $3.7 billion

nonoperating charge to increase litigation reserves.For a further discussion of

litigation,refer to Note 25 on page 123 of this Annual Report.
Provision for credit losses 
2005 compared with 2004

The Provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion,an increase of $939 million,or

37%,from 2004,reflecting the full-year impact of the Merger.The wholesale

Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $811 million for the year compared

with a benefit of $716 million in the prior year,reflecting continued strength in

credit quality.The wholesale loan net recovery rate was 0.06% in 2005,an

improvement from a net charge-off rate of 0.18% in the prior year.The total

consumer Provision for credit losses was $4.3 billion,$1.9 billion higher than

the prior year,primarily due to the Merger,higher bankruptcy-related net

charge-offs in Card Services and a $350 million special provision for Hurricane
Katrina.2004 included accounting policy conformity adjustments as a result of

the Merger.Excluding these items,the consumer portfolio continued to show

strength in credit quality.
The Firm had total nonperforming assets of $2.6 billion at December 31,
2005,a decline of $641 million,or 20%,from the 2004 level of $3.2 billion.

For further information about the Provision for credit losses and the FirmÕs

management of credit risk,see the Credit risk management discussion on

pages 63Ð74 of this Annual Report.
2004 compared with 2003
The Provision for credit losses of $2.5 billion was up $1.0 billion,or 65%,

compared with 2003.The impact of the Merger and accounting policy 

conformity charges of $858 million were offset partially by releases in the
allowance for credit losses related to the wholesale loan portfolio,primarily

due to improved credit quality in the IB,and the sale of the manufactured

home loan portfolioin RFS.
Noninterest expense
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Compensation expense$18,255
$14,506$11,387
Occupancy expense2,2992,0841,912
Technology and communications 
expense3,6243,7022,844
Professional & outside services 4,2243,8622,875
Marketing 
1,9171,335710
Other expense3,7052,8591,694
Amortization of intangibles1,525946294
Merger costs7221,365Ñ
Litigation reserve charge2,5643,700100
Total noninterest expense$
38,835$34,359$
21,816(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2005 compared with 2004 
Noninterest expense was $38.8 billion,up 13% from the prior year,primarily

due to the full-year impact of the Merger.Excluding Litigation reserve charges

and Merger costs,Noninterest expense would have been $35.5 billion,up 21%.

In addition to the Merger,expenses increased as a result of higher performance-

based incentives,continued investment spending in the FirmÕs businesses and

incremental marketing expenses related to launching the new Chase brand,par-

tially offset by merger-related savings and other efficiencies throughout the Firm.

Each category of Noninterest expense was affected by the Merger.The discus-

sions that follow highlight factors other than the Merger that affected the 2005
versus 2004 comparison.ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
30JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
2004 compared with 2003
Noninterest expense was $34.4 billion in 2004,up $12.5 billion,or 57%,

primarily due to the Merger.Excluding $1.4 billion of Merger costs,and

Litigation reserve charges,Noninterest expense would have been $29.3 billion,

up 35%.The discussion that follows highlights other factors affecting the

2004 versus 2003 comparison.Compensation expense was up from 2003,primarily due to strategic invest-
ments in the IB and continuing expansion in RFS.These factors were offset

partially by ongoing efficiency improvements and merger-related savings

throughout the Firm,and by a reduction in pension costs.The decline in 

pension costs was attributable mainly to the increase in the expected return

on plan assets resulting from a discretionary $1.1 billion contribution to the
FirmÕs pension plan in April 2004,partially offset by changes in actuarial

assumptions for 2004 compared with 2003.The increase in Occupancy expense was offset partly by lower charges 
for excess real estate,which were $103 million in 2004 compared with 

$270 million in 2003.Technology and communications expense was higher than in the prior year 
as a result of higher costs associated with greater use of outside vendors,

primarily IBM,to support the global infrastructure requirements of the Firm.

For a further discussion regarding the IBM outsourcing agreement,see the

Corporate segment discussion on page 53 of this Annual Report.
Professional & outside services rose due to higher legal costs associated withlitigation matters,as well as outside services stemming from recent acquisi-

tions Ñ primarily Electronic Financial Services (ÒEFSÓ),and growth in 

business at TSS and CS.
Marketing expense rose as CS initiated a more robust marketing campaign
during 2004.Other expense was up due to software impairment write-offs of $224 million,
primarily in TSS and Corporate,compared with $60 million in 2003;higher

operating charges for legal matters;and growth in business volume.These

expenses were offset partly by a $57 million settlement related to the Enron
surety bond litigation.For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs,refer to
Note 15 and Note 8 on pages 114Ð116and 103,respectively.
In June of 2004,JPMorgan Chase recorded a $3.7 billion addition to the
Litigation reserve.By comparison,2003 included a charge of $100 million 

for Enron-related litigation.Income tax expenseThe FirmÕs Income before income tax expense,Income tax expense and 

effective tax rate were as follows for each of the periods indicated:
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except rate)
20052004 2003Income before income tax expense$12,215
$6,194$10,028
Income tax expense 
3,7321,7283,309
Effective tax rate
30.6%27.9%33.0%
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2005 compared with 2004 
The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily the result of higher

reported pre-tax income combined with changes in the proportion of income
subject to federal,state and local taxes.Also contributing to the increase

were lower 2005 nonoperating charges and a gain on the sale of BrownCo,

which were taxed at marginal tax rates of 38% and 40%,respectively.These

increases were offset partially by a tax benefit of $55 million recorded in
connection with the repatriation of foreign earnings.
2004 compared with 2003
The reduction in the effective tax rate for 2004,as compared with 2003,

wasthe result of various factors,including lower reported pre-tax income,a

higherlevel of business tax credits,and changes in the proportion of income

subjectto federal,state and local taxes,partially offset by purchase accounting

adjustments related to leveraged lease transactions.The Merger costs 

and accounting policy conformity adjustments recorded in 2004,and the

Litigation reserve charge recorded in the second quarter of 2004,reflected a

tax benefit at a 38% marginal tax rate,contributing to the reduction in the

effective tax rate compared with 2003.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
31The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (ÒU.S.GAAPÓ);

these financial statements appear on pages 87Ð90of this Annual Report.

That presentation,which is referred to as Òreported basis,Óprovides the reader

with an understanding of the FirmÕs results that can be tracked consistently

from year to year and enables a comparison of the FirmÕs performance with

other companiesÕ U.S.GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the FirmÕs results on a reported basis,management
reviews the FirmÕs and the linesÕ of business results on an operating basis,

which is a non-GAAP financial measure.The FirmÕs definition of operating

basis starts with the reported U.S.GAAP results.Operating basis excludes:

(i) merger costs,(ii) the nonoperating litigation charges taken and insurance

recoveries received with respect to certain of the FirmÕs material litigation;

and (iii) costs related to the conformance of certain accounting policies as a
result of the Merger.Management believes these items are not part of the

FirmÕs normal daily business operations and,therefore,not indicative of

trends,as they do not provide meaningful comparisons with other periods.

For additional detail on nonoperating litigation charges,see the Glossary of

terms on page 134 of this Annual Report.
In addition,the Firm manages its lines of business on an operating basis.In
the case of the Investment Bank,noninterest revenue on an operating basis

includes,in trading-related revenue,net interest income related to trading

activities.Trading activities generate revenues,which are recorded for U.S.

GAAP purposes in two line items on the income statement:trading revenue,

which includes the mark-to-market gains or losses on trading positions;and

net interest income,which includes the interest income or expense related to

those positions.The impact of changes in market interest rates will either be

recorded in Trading revenue or Net interest income depending on whether the

trading position is a cash security or a derivative.Combining both the trading

revenue and related net interest income allows management to evaluate the

economic results of the Investment BankÕs trading activities,which for GAAP

purposes are reported in both Trading revenue and Net interest income.In

managementÕs view,this presentation also facilitates operating comparisons

to competitors.For a discussion of trading-related revenue,see the IB on

pages 36Ð38 of this Annual Report.
In the case of Card Services,operating basis is also referred to as Òmanaged
basis,Óand excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net 

revenue,the provision for credit losses,net charge-offs and loan receivables.

This presentation is provided to facilitate operating comparisons to competi-

tors.Through securitization,the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card

receivables into securities,which are sold to investors.The credit card receiv-

ables are removed from the consolidated balance sheet through the transfer

of the receivables to a trust,and the sale of undivided interests to investors 

that entitle the investors to specific cash flows generated from the credit 

card receivables.The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests as sellerÕs

interests,which are recorded in Loans on the Consolidated balance sheets.

A gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in
Other income.Securitization also affects the FirmÕs Consolidated statements
of income as interest income,certain fee revenue,recoveries in excess of

interest paid to the investors,gross credit losses and other trust expenses

related to the securitized receivables are all reclassified into credit card

income.For a reconciliation of reported to managed basis of Card Services

results,see page 46 of this Annual Report.For information regarding loans and

residual interestssold and securitized,see Note 13 on pages 108Ð111 of this
Annual Report.JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of Òmanaged receivablesÓ
to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial performance of the

underlying credit card loans,both sold and not sold:as the same borrower 

is continuing to use the credit card for ongoing charges,a borrowerÕs credit

performance will affect both the loan receivables sold under SFAS 140 and

those not sold.Thus,in its disclosures regarding managed loan receivables,

JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance

sheet in order to disclose the credit performance (such as net charge-off
rates) of the entire managed credit card portfolio.In addition,Card Services

operations are funded,operating results are evaluated,and decisions are

made about allocating resources such as employees and capital based upon
managed financial information.Finally,commencing with the first quarter of 2005,operating revenue 
(noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the segments and
the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis.Accordingly,revenue from tax

exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits are presented in
the operating results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and invest-

ments.This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the 

comparability of revenues arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources.

The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded 

within income tax expense.The Corporate sectorÕs and the FirmÕs operating

revenue and income tax expense for the periods prior to the first quarter 
of 2005 have been restated to be similarly presented on a tax-equivalent

basis.This restatement had no impact on the Corporate sectorÕs or the FirmÕs

operating earnings.
Management uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the segment levelbecause it believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information
to investors in understanding the underlying operational performance and

trends of the particular business segment and facilitate a comparison of the
business segment with the performance of competitors.
Explanation and reconciliation of the FirmÕs use of non-GAAP financial measures
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
32JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the FirmÕs reported GAAP results to operating results:
(Table continues on next page)
Year ended December 31,
(a)20052004(in millions,except ReportedCredit
NonoperatingTax-equivalent
OperatingReportedCreditNonoperatingTax-equivalentOperating
per share and ratio data)resultscard
(b)itemsadjustmentsbasisresultscard
(b)itemsadjustmentsbasis
RevenueInvestment banking fees$4,088$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$4,088
$3,537$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$3,537
Trading revenue
(c)6,019ÑÑÑ6,019
5,562ÑÑÑ5,562
Lending & depositrelated fees3,389ÑÑÑ3,389
2,672ÑÑÑ2,672
Asset management,administration and 

commissions10,390ÑÑÑ10,390
8,165ÑÑÑ8,165
Securities/private 
equity gains 473ÑÑÑ473
1,874ÑÑÑ1,874
Mortgage fees and related income1,054ÑÑÑ1,054
806ÑÑÑ806
Credit card income6,754(2,718)ÑÑ4,036
4,840(2,267)ÑÑ2,573
Other income2,694ÑÑ5713,265
830(86)118
(3)3171,179
Noninterest revenue
(c)34,861(2,718)Ñ57132,714
28,286(2,353)11831726,368
Net interest income
(c)19,6726,494Ñ26926,435
14,8115,251Ñ620,068
Total net revenue54,5333,776Ñ84059,149
43,0972,89811832346,436
Provision for credit losses3,4833,776ÑÑ7,259
2,5442,898(858)
(4)Ñ4,584
Noninterest expense
Merger costs722Ñ(722)
(1)ÑÑ1,365Ñ(1,365)
(1)ÑÑLitigation reserve charge2,564Ñ(2,564)
(2)ÑÑ3,700Ñ(3,700)
(2)ÑÑAll other noninterest expense35,549ÑÑÑ35,549
29,294ÑÑÑ29,294
Total noninterest 
expense38,835Ñ(3,286)Ñ35,549
34,359Ñ(5,065)Ñ29,294
Income before income  
tax expense12,215Ñ3,28684016,341
6,194Ñ6,04132312,558
Income tax expense3,732Ñ1,2488405,820
1,728Ñ2,2963234,347
Net income$8,483$Ñ$2,038$Ñ$10,521
$4,466$Ñ$3,745$Ñ$8,211
Earnings per share Ð diluted$2.38$Ñ$0.57$Ñ$2.95
$1.55$Ñ$1.31$Ñ$2.86
Returnoncommonequity8%Ñ%2%Ñ%10%
6%Ñ%5%Ñ%11%
Return on equityless goodwill14Ñ3Ñ17
9Ñ7Ñ16
Return on assets0.72NMNMNM0.84
0.46NMNMNM0.81
Overhead ratio71NMNMNM60
80NMNMNM63
Effective income tax rate31NM38NM36
28NM38NM35
LoansÐPeriod-end$419,148$
70,527ÑÑ$489,675
$402,114$70,795ÑÑ$472,909
Total assets Ð average1,185,066
67,180ÑÑ1,252,246
962,556(a)51,084(a)ÑÑ1,013,640
(a)(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 refle
cts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)The impact of credit card securitizations affects CS.See pages 45Ð46 of this Annual Report for further information.
(c)Trading-related net interest income reclassification
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Trading revenue Ð reported
(d)$5,860
$3,612$4,427
Trading-related NII
1591,9502,129
Trading revenue Ð adjusted
(d)$6,019
$5,562$6,556
Net interest income Ð reported$19,831
$16,761$12,965
Trading-related NII
(159)(1,950)(2,129)
Net interest income Ð adjusted$19,672
$14,811$10,836
(d) Reflects Trading revenue at the Firm level.The majority of Trading revenue is recorded in the Investment Bank.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
33Nonoperating Items
The reconciliation of the FirmÕs reported results to operating results in the
accompanying table sets forth the impact of several nonoperating items

incurred by the Firm in 2005 and 2004.These nonoperating items are

excluded from Operating earnings,as management believes these items

are not part of the FirmÕs normal daily business operations and,therefore,

not indicative of trends as they do not provide meaningful comparisons
with other periods.These items include Merger costs,nonoperating litiga-

tion charges and insurance recoveries,and charges to conform account-

ing policies,each of which is described below:
(1) Merger costs of $722 million in 2005 and $1.4 billion in 2004 
reflect costs associated with the Merger.
(2) Net nonoperating litigation charges of $2.6 billion and $3.7 billion 
were taken in 2005 and 2004,respectively.
(3) Other income in 2004 reflects $118 million of other accounting 
policy conformity adjustments.
(4) The Provision for credit losses in 2004 reflects $858 million of
accounting policy conformity adjustments,consisting of a $1.4 billion

charge related to the decertification of the sellerÕs interest in credit

card securitizations,partially offset by a benefit of $584 million 

related to conforming wholesale and consumer credit provision
methodologies for the combined Firm.Calculation of Certain GAAP and Non-GAAP MetricsThe table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both the following
GAAP and non-GAAP measures:Return on common equityReportedNet income*/ Average common equity

OperatingOperating earnings*/ Average common equity
Return on equity less goodwill(a)ReportedNet income*/ Average common equity less goodwill
OperatingOperating earnings*/ Average common equity less goodwill
Return on assetsReportedNet income/ Average assets

OperatingOperating earnings / Average managed assets
Overhead ratio
ReportedTotal noninterest expense / Total net revenue

OperatingTotal noninterest expense / Total net revenue
* Represents earnings applicable to common stock(Table continued from previous page)
2003ReportedCreditNonoperatingTax-equivalentOperating
resultscard
(b)itemsadjustmentsbasis
$2,890$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$2,890
6,556ÑÑÑ6,556
1,727ÑÑÑ1,727
6,039ÑÑÑ6,039
1,479ÑÑÑ1,479
790ÑÑÑ790
2,466(1,379)ÑÑ1,087
601(71)Ñ89619
22,548(1,450)Ñ8921,187
10,8363,320Ñ4414,200

33,3841,870Ñ13335,387
1,5401,870ÑÑ3,410
ÑÑÑÑÑ
100ÑÑÑ100
21,716ÑÑÑ21,716
21,816ÑÑÑ21,816
10,028ÑÑ13310,161
3,309ÑÑ1333,442
$6,719$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$6,719
$3.24$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$3.24
16%Ñ%Ñ%Ñ%16%
19ÑÑÑ19
0.87NMNMNM0.83
65NMNMNM62
33NMNMNM34
$214,766$34,856ÑÑ$249,622
775,97832,365ÑÑ808,343
(a) The Firm uses return on equity less goodwill,a non-GAAP financial measure,to evaluate
the operating performance of the Firm.The Firm utilizes this measure to facilitate operating

comparisons to competitors.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
34JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Business segment results
The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis.The business segment financial
results presented reflect the current organization of JPMorgan Chase.There

are six major business segments:the Investment Bank,Retail Financial Services,

Card Services,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset &

Wealth Management,as well as a Corporate segment.The segmentsare
based upon the products and services provided,or the type of customer
served,and reflect the manner in which financial information is currently

evaluated by management.Results of these lines of business are presented

on an operating basis.
Segment results Ð Operating basis
(a)(b)(Table continues on next page)
Year ended December 31,
Total net revenueNoninterest expense
(in millions,except ratios)
20052004Change
20052004Change
Investment Bank$14,578
$12,60516%
$9,739
$8,69612%
Retail Financial Services14,83010,79137
8,5856,82526
Card Services15,36610,74543
4,9993,88329
Commercial Banking3,5962,37451
1,8721,34339
Treasury & Securities Services
6,2414,85728
4,4704,1139
Asset & Wealth Management
5,6644,17936
3,8603,13323
Corporate
(1,126)885NM
2,0241,30156
Total 
$59,149
$46,43627%
$35,549
$29,29421%
(a)Represents reported results on a tax-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of credit card securitizations;Merger costs,li
tigation reserve charges and insurance recoveries deemed nonoperating;
and accounting policy conformity adjustments related to the Merger.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

(c)As a result of the Merger,new capital allocation methodologies were implemented during the third quarter of 2004.The capital
 allocated to each line of business considers several factors:stand-
alone peer comparables,economic risk measures and regulatory capital requirements.In addition,effective with the third quarter 
of 2004,goodwill,as well as the associated capital,is only allocated
to the Corporate line of business.Prior periods have not been revised to reflect these new methodologies and are not comparable
 to the presentation beginning in the third quarter of 2004.
In connection with the Merger,business segment reporting was realigned to
reflect the new business structure of the combined Firm.Treasury was transferred

from the IB into Corporate.The segment formerly known as Chase Financial

Services had been comprised of Chase Home Finance,Chase Cardmember

Services,Chase Auto Finance,Chase Regional Banking and Chase Middle

Market;as a result of the Merger,this segment is now called Retail Financial

Services and is comprised of Home Finance,Auto & Education Finance,

Consumer & Small Business Banking and Insurance.Chase Cardmember

Services is now its own segment called Card Services,and Chase Middle

Market moved into Commercial Banking.Investment Management & Private

Banking was renamed Asset & Wealth Management.JPMorgan Partners,

which formerly was a stand-alone business segment,was moved into
Corporate.Corporate currently comprises Private Equity (JPMorgan Partners
and ONE Equity Partners) and Treasury,and the corporate support areas,

which include Central Technology and Operations,
Audit,Executive Office,
Finance,Human Resources,
Marketing & Communications,Office of the
General Counsel,Corporate Real Estate and General Services,Risk

Management,and Strategy and Development.Beginning January 1,2006,

TSS will report results for two divisions:TS and WSS.WSS was 
formed by consolidating IS and ITS.
Segment results for periods prior to July 1,2004,reflect heritage JPMorgan
Chase-only results and have been restated to reflect the current business 
segment organization and reporting classifications.
Asset & Wealth
ManagementBusinesses:¥Treasury Services
¥Worldwide
Securities Services:- Investor Services

- Institutional Trust
ServicesJPMorgan Chase
Businesses:¥Middle Market
Banking¥Mid-Corporate
Banking¥Real Estate

¥Chase 
BusinessCredit¥Chase 
EquipmentLeasingCommercial
BankingBusinesses:¥Investment banking:
- Advisory- Debt and equityunderwriting¥Market-making
and trading:- Fixed income 
- Equities¥Corporate lending
Investment BankRetail FinancialServicesCard
ServicesBusinesses:¥Investment
Management:- Institutional
- Retail¥Private Banking

¥Private Client
ServicesBusinesses:¥Credit Card
¥Merchant Acquiring
Businesses:¥Home Finance
¥Consumer & Small
Business Banking¥Auto & Education
Finance
¥Insurance
Treasury &
Securities ServicesJPMorgan is the brand name.
Chase is the brand name.
Segment results Ð Operating basis
(a)(b)(Table continued from previous page)
Year ended December 31,
Operating earningsReturn on common equity Ð goodwill
(c)(in millions,except ratios)
20052004Change
20052004Investment Bank$3,658
$2,94824%
18%17%Retail Financial Services3,4272,19956
2624Card Services1,9071,27450
1617Commercial Banking1,00760866
3029Treasury & Securities Services
1,037440136
5517Asset & Wealth Management
1,21668179
5117Corporate
(1,731)61NM
NMNMTotal 
$10,521
$8,21128%
17%16%JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
35and are retained in Corporate.These retained expenses include parent company
costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone businesses;
adjustments to align certain corporate staff,technology and operations 

allocations with market prices;and other one-time items not aligned with the

business segments.During 2005,the Firm refined cost allocation methodologies

related to certain corporate functions,technology and operations expensesin

order to improve transparency,consistency and accountability with regard to

costs allocated across business segments.Prior periods have not been revised

to reflect these new cost allocation methodologies.
Capital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-

alone peer comparisons,economic risk measures and regulatory capital

requirements.The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to

as equity.At the time of the Merger,goodwill,as well as the associated capital,

was allocated solely to Corporate.Effective January 2006,the Firm expects to

refine its methodology for allocating capital to the business segments to
include any goodwill associated with line of business-directed acquisitions
since the Merger.U.S.GAAP requires the allocation of goodwill to the business

segments for impairment testing (see Critical accounting estimates used by
the Firm and Note 15 on pages 81Ð83and 114Ð116,respectively,of this

Annual Report).See the Capital management section on page 56 of this

Annual Report for a discussion of the equity framework.
Credit reimbursementTSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures the IB manages on behalf
of clients the segments share.At the time of the Merger,the reimbursement

methodology was revised to be based upon pre-tax earnings,net of the 

cost of capital related to those exposures.Prior to the Merger,the credit 

reimbursement was based upon pre-tax earnings,plus the allocated capital

associated with the shared clients.
Tax-equivalent adjustments
Segment and Firm results reflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis for 

segment reporting purposes.Refer to Explanation and reconciliation of the

FirmÕs non-GAAP financial measures on page 31 of this Annual Report for

additional details.
Description of business segment reporting methodology 
Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it
were essentially a stand-alone business.The management reporting process

that derives these results allocates income and expense using market-based

methodologies.Effective with the Merger on July 1,2004,several of the 

allocation methodologies were revised,as noted below.As prior periods have

not been revised to reflect these new methodologies,they are not comparable

to the presentation of periods beginning with the third quarter of 2004.
Further,the Firm continues to assess the assumptions,methodologies and

reporting reclassifications used for segment reporting,and further refinements

may be implemented in future periods.
Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the
FirmÕs clients,the participating business segments agree to share revenues

from those transactions.These revenue-sharing agreements were revised on

the Merger date to provide consistency across the lines of business.
Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing (ÒFTPÓ) is used to allocate interest income and expense

to each business and transfer the primary interest rate risk exposures to

Corporate.The allocation process is unique to each business and considers

the interest rate risk,liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of its stand-

alone peers.Business segments may retain certain interest rate exposures,

subject to management approval,that would be expected in the normal 

operation of a similar peer business.In the third quarter of 2004,FTP was

revised to conform the policies of the combined firms.
Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by support units within the
Firm,the costs of those support units are allocated to the business segments.

Those expenses are allocated based upon their actual cost,or the lower of

actual cost or market cost,as well as upon usage of the services provided.

Effective with the third quarter of 2004,the cost allocation methodologies 

of the heritage firms were aligned to provide consistency across the business
segments.In addition,expenses related to certain corporate functions,

technology and operations ceased to be allocated to the business segments
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
36JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings of $3.7 billion were up 24%,or $710 million,from the

prior year.The increase was driven by the Merger,higher revenues and an

increased benefit from the Provision for credit losses.These factors were 

partially offset by higher compensation expense.Return on equity was 18%.
Net revenue of $14.6 billion was up $2.0 billion,or 16%,over the prior year,
representing the IBÕs highest annual revenue since 2000,driven by strong Fixed

Income and Equity Markets and Investment banking fees.Investment banking

fees of $4.1 billion increased 15% from the prior year driven by strong growth
in advisory fees resulting in part from the Cazenove business partnership.

Advisory revenues of $1.3 billion were up 35% from the prior year,reflecting

higher market volumes.Debt underwriting revenues of $2.0 billion increased by

6% driven by strong loan syndication fees.Equity underwriting fees of $864

million were up 11% from the prior year driven by improved market share.

Fixed Income Markets revenue of $7.2 billion increased 15%,or $928 million,

driven by stronger,although volatile,trading results across commodities,emerging

markets,rate markets and currencies.Equities Markets revenues increased 21%

to $1.8 billion,primarily due to increased commissions,which were offset 

partially by lower trading results,which also experienced a high level of volatility.

Credit Portfolio revenues were $1.4 billion,up $213 million from the prior year

due to higher gains from loan workouts and sales as well as higher trading 

revenue from credit risk management activities.
The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $838 million compared with 
a benefit of $640 million in 2004.The increased benefit was due primarily to

the improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio and reflected net
recoveries.Nonperforming assets of $645 million decreased by 46% since 

the end of 2004.Noninterest expense increased 12% to $9.7 billion,largely reflecting higher
performance-based incentive compensation related to growth in revenue.

Noncompensation expense was up 4% from the prior year primarily due to

the impact of the Cazenove business partnership,
while the overhead ratio
declined to 67% for 2005,from 69% in 2004.
2004 compared with 2003
In 2004,Operating earnings of $2.9 billion were up 5% from the prior year.

Increases in Investment banking fees,the improvement in the Provision for

credit losses and the impact of the Merger were partially offset by decreases in
trading revenues and net interest income.Return on equity was 17% for 2004.
Total net revenue of $12.6 billion was relatively flat from the prior year,
primarily due to lower Fixed income markets revenues and Credit portfolio

revenues,offset by increases in Investment banking fees and the impact of the

Merger.The decline in revenue from Fixed income markets was driven by weaker

portfolio management trading results,mainly in the interest rate marketsbusi-

ness.Credit portfolio revenues were down due to lower net interest income,
Investment BankJPMorgan Chase is one of the worldÕs leading investment banks,
as evidenced by the breadth of its client relationships and product

capabilities.The Investment Bank has extensive relationships

with corporations,financial institutions,governments and 

institutional investors worldwide.The Firm provides a full range

of investment banking products and services in all major capital

markets,including advising on corporate strategy and structure,

capital raising in equity and debt markets,sophisticated risk

management,and market-making in cash securities and derivative

instruments.The Investment Bank also commits the FirmÕs own

capital to proprietary investing and trading activities.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200520042003
RevenueInvestment banking fees:Advisory$1,263
$938$640
Equity underwriting864781699
Debt underwriting1,9691,8531,532
Total investment banking fees
4,0963,5722,871
Trading-related revenue:
Fixed income and other5,6735,0086,016
Equities350427556
Credit portfolio1166(186)
Total trading-related revenue
(b)6,1395,4416,386
Lending & deposit related fees594539440
Asset management,administration 
and commissions1,7241,4001,217
Other income615328103
Noninterest revenue13,168
11,28011,017
Net interest income
(b)1,4101,3251,667
Total net revenue
(c)14,57812,60512,684
Provision for credit losses(838)(640)(181)
Credit reimbursement from (to) TSS
(d)15490(36)
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense5,7854,8934,462
Noncompensation expense3,9543,8033,840
Total noninterest expense9,739
8,6968,302
Operating earnings before 
income tax expense5,831
4,6394,527
Income tax expense 
2,1731,6911,722
Operating earnings$3,658
$2,948$2,805
Financial ratios
ROE18%17%15%
ROA0.610.620.64
Overhead ratio
676965
Compensation expense as% of total net revenue
403935
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Trading revenue,on a reported basis,excludes the impact of Net interest income related to IBÕs
trading activities;this income is recorded in Net interest income.However,in this presentation,to

assess the profitability of IBÕs trading business,the Firm combines these revenues for segment

reporting purposes.The amount reclassified from Net interest income to Trading revenue was 

$0.2 billion,$1.9 billion and $2.1 billion for 2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.The decline from

prior years is due to tightening spreads as short-term funding rates have risen sharply and also,to

a lesser extent,increased funding costs from growth in noninterest-bearing trading assets.
(c)Total net revenue includes tax-equivalent adjustments,primarily due to tax-exempt income
from municipal bond investments and income tax credits related to affordable housing invest-
ments,of $752 million,$274 million and $117 million for 2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.
(d)TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the 
IB credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.For a further discussion,see Credit

reimbursement on page 35 of this Annual Report.
The following table provides the IBÕs total net revenue by business segment:
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Revenue by business
Investment banking fees$4,096
$3,572$2,871
Fixed income markets
7,2426,3146,987
Equities markets
1,7991,4911,406
Credit portfolio1,4411,2281,420
Total net revenue
$14,578
$12,605$12,684
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Loans retained include Credit Portfolio,Conduit loans,leverage leases,bridge loans for
underwriting and other accrual loans.
(c)Loans held-for-sale,which include warehouse loans held as part of the IBÕs mortgage-
backed,asset-backed and other securitization businesses,are excluded from Total loans for

the allowance coverage ratio and net charge-off rate.
(d)Adjusted assets,a non-GAAP financial measure,equals total average assets minus (1)
securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed less securities sold,

not yet purchased;(2) assets of variable interest entities (VIEs) consolidated under FIN 46R;

(3) cash and securities segregated and on deposit for regulatory and other purposes;and

(4) goodwill and intangibles.The amount of adjusted assets is presented to assist the read-

er in comparing the IBÕs asset and capital levels to other investment banks in the securities

industry.Asset-to-equity leverage ratios are commonly used as one measure to assess a

companyÕs capital adequacy.The IB believes an adjusted asset amount,which excludes 

certain assets considered to have a low risk profile,provides a more meaningful measure 

of balance sheet leverage in the securities industry.
(e)Equity includes $15.0 billion,$15.0 billion and $14.6 billion of economic risk capital
assigned to the IB for the years ended 2005,2004 and 2003 respectively.
(f)Nonperforming loans include loans held-for-sale of $109 million,$2 million and 
$30 million as of December 31,2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.These amounts are 

not included in the allowance coverage ratios.
(g)Includes all fixed income mark-to-market trading activities,plus available-for-sale securities
held for proprietary purposes.
(h)Includes VAR on derivative credit valuation adjustments,credit valuation adjustment hedges
and mark-to-market hedges of the accrual loan portfolio,which are all reported in Trading

revenue.This VAR does not include the accrual loan portfolio,which is not marked to market.
(i)Average VARs are less than the sum of the VARs of its market risk components,due to risk
offsets resulting from portfolio diversification.The diversification effect reflects the fact that

the risks are not perfectly correlated.The risk of a portfolio of positions is therefore usually

less than the sum of the risks of the positions themselves.
According to Thomson Financial,in 2005,the Firm improved its ranking in
U.S.Debt,Equity and Equity-related from #5 in 2004 to #4 and in U.S.Equity

and Equity-related from #6 in 2004 to #5.The Firm maintained its #3 position

in Global Announced M&A with 24% market share and its #1 position in

Global Syndicated Loans.The Firm maintained its #2 ranking in U.S.Long-Term

Debt,but dropped from #2 to #4 in Global Long-Term Debt.
According to Dealogic,the Firm was ranked #2 in Investment Banking fees
generated during 2005.
Market shares and rankings
(a)200520042003
Market MarketMarket
December 31,ShareRankingsShareRankingsShareRankings
Global debt,equity and 
equity-related6%#4
7%# 38%# 3
Global syndicated loans16#1
19# 120# 1
Global long-term debt6#4
7# 28# 2
Global equity and equity-related7#6
6# 68# 4
Global announced M&A24#3
24# 316# 4
U.S.debt,equity and 
equity-related8#4
8# 59# 3
U.S.syndicated loans
28#1
32# 134# 1
U.S.long-term debt
11#2
12# 212# 2
U.S.equity and equity-related
9#5
8# 611# 4
U.S.announced M&A
24#3
31# 214# 7
(a) Source:Thomson Financial Securities data.Global announced M&A is based on rank value;
all other rankings are based upon proceeds,with full credit to each book manager/equal 

if joint.Because of joint assignments,market share of all participants will add up to more

than 100%.The market share and rankings for the years ended December 31,2004 and

2003 are presented on a combined basis,as if the merger of JPMorgan Chase and Bank

One had been in effect during the periods.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
37primarily driven by lower loan balances;these factors were partially offset by
higher trading revenue due to more severe credit spread tightening in 2003

relative to 2004.Investment banking fees increased by 24% over the prior

year,driven by significant gains in advisory and debt underwriting.The advisory

gains were a result of increased global market volumes and market share,

while the higher underwriting fees were due to stronger client activity.
The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $640 million,compared with 
a benefit of $181 million in 2003.The improvement in the provision was the

result of a $633 million decline in net charge-offs,partially offset by lower

reductions in the allowance for credit losses in 2004 relative to 2003.
For the year ended December 31,2004,Noninterest expense was up 5% from
the prior year.The increase from 2003 was driven by higher Compensation

expense,resulting from strategic investments and the impact of the Merger.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and ratio data)
200520042003
Revenue by region
Americas$8,223
$6,870$7,250
Europe/Middle East/Africa4,6274,0824,331
Asia/Pacific
1,7281,6531,103
Total net revenue
$14,578
$12,605$12,684
Selected average balances
Total assets
$598,118
$473,121$436,488
Trading assetsÐdebt and 
equity instruments231,303173,086156,408
Trading assetsÐderivatives receivables
55,23958,73583,361
Loans:Loans retained(b)42,91836,49440,240
Loans held-for-sale
(c)12,0146,1244,797
Total loans
54,93242,61845,037
Adjusted assets(d)455,277393,646370,776
Equity(e)20,00017,29018,350
Headcount19,769
17,47814,691
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs (recoveries)$(126)
$47$680
Nonperforming assets:Nonperforming loans(f)5949541,708
Other nonperforming assets51242370
Allowance for loan losses
9071,5471,055
Allowance for lending related commitments
226305242
Net charge-off (recovery) rate
(c)(0.29)%0.13%1.69%
Allowance for loan losses to average loans
(c)2.114.242.56
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans(f)18716363
Nonperforming loans to average loans
1.082.243.79
Market riskÐaverage trading and
credit portfolioVAR
(g)(h)(i)Trading activities:
Fixed income(g)$67
$74$61
Foreign exchange
231717
Equities342818
Commodities and other2198Diversification(i)(59)(43)(39)
Total trading VAR86
8565
Credit portfolio VAR
(h)141418
Diversification(i)(12)(9)(14)
Total trading and credit 
portfolio VAR$88
$90$69
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
38JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Composition of revenue
AssetYear endedTrading-Lending & management,

December 31,(a)InvestmentrelateddepositadministrationOtherNet interestTotal net
(in millions)banking feesrevenuerelated feesand commissionsincomeincomerevenue
2005Investment banking fees$4,096$Ñ$
Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$4,096
Fixed income markets
Ñ5,6732512193657347,242
Equities markets
Ñ350Ñ1,462(88)751,799
Credit portfolioÑ116343433386011,441
Total
$4,096$6,139$594$1,724$615$1,410$14,578
2004Investment banking fees$3,572$Ñ$
Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$3,572
Fixed income marketsÑ5,0081912873045246,314

Equities marketsÑ427Ñ1,076(95)831,491
Credit portfolioÑ6348371197181,228
Total$3,572$5,441$539$1,400$328$1,325$12,605
2003 Investment banking fees$2,871$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$2,871

Fixed income marketsÑ6,016107331844496,987

Equities marketsÑ556Ñ851(85)841,406
Credit portfolioÑ(186)333351041,1341,420
Total$2,871$6,386$440$1,217$103$1,667$12,684
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
IB revenues comprise the following:
Investment banking feesincludes advisory,equity underwriting,bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.
Fixed income markets
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed 
incomemarkets,including government and corporate debt,foreign exchange,interest rate and commodities markets.
Equities markets
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity prod
ucts,
including cash instruments,derivatives and convertibles.
Credit portfolio 
revenue includes Net interest income,fees and loan sale activity,as well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a
 loan restructuring,
for IBÕs credit portfolio.Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the FirmÕs lending a
nd derivative activities,and changes
in the credit valuation adjustment (ÒCVAÓ),which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit qu
ality of the counterparty.See
pages 69Ð70of the Credit risk management section of this Annual Report for a further discussion.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
39Retail Financial ServicesRFS includes Home Finance,Consumer & Small Business Banking,
Auto & Education Finance and Insurance.Through this group of

businesses,the Firm provides consumers and small businesses

with a broad range of financial products and services including

deposits,investments,loans and insurance.Home Finance is a

leading provider of consumer real estate loan products and is

one of the largest originators and servicers of home mortgages.

Consumer & Small Business Banking offers one of the largest

branch networks in the United States,covering 17 states with

2,641 branches and 7,312 automated teller machines (ÒATMsÓ).

Auto & Education Finance is the largest noncaptive originator of 

automobile loans as well as a top provider of loans for college

students.Through its Insurance operations,the Firm sells and

underwrites an extensive range of financial protection products

and investment alternatives,including life insurance,annuities

and debt protection products.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200520042003
RevenueLending & deposit related fees$1,452
$1,013$486
Asset management,administration 
and commissions1,4981,020459
Securities/private equity gains (losses)
9(83)381
Mortgage fees and related income1,104866803
Credit card income426230107
Other income13631(28)
Noninterest revenue4,625
3,0772,208
Net interest income10,205
7,7145,220
Total net revenue14,830
10,7917,428
Provision for credit losses(b)724449521
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense3,3372,6211,695
Noncompensation expense4,7483,9372,773
Amortization of intangibles5002673
Total noninterest expense8,585
6,8254,471
Operating earnings before 
income tax expense5,521
3,5172,436
Income tax expense 2,0941,318889
Operating earnings$3,427
$2,199$1,547
Financial ratios
ROE26%24%37%
ROA1.511.181.05
Overhead ratio
586360
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)2005 includes a $250 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina allocated as 
follows:$140 million in Consumer Real Estate Lending,$90 million in Consumer & Small

Business Banking and $20 million in Auto & Education Finance.
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings were $3.4 billion,up $1.2 billion from the prior year.The

increase was due largely to the Merger but also reflected increased deposit

balances and wider spreads,higher home equity and subprime mortgage 

balances,and expense savings in all businesses.These benefits were partially
offset by narrower spreads on retained loan portfolios,the special provision
for Hurricane Katrina and net losses associated with portfolio loan sales in
the Home Finance and Auto businesses.
Net revenue increased to $14.8 billion,up $4.0 billion,or 37%,due primarily
to the Merger.Net interest income of $10.2 billion increased by $2.5 billion

as a result of the Merger,increased deposit balances and wider spreads,and

growth in retained consumer real estate loans.These benefits were offset 

partially by narrower spreads on loan balances and the absence of loan port-
folios sold in late 2004 and early 2005.Noninterest revenue of $4.6 billion

increased by $1.5 billion due to the Merger,improved MSR risk management

results,higher automobile operating lease income and increased banking

fees.These benefits were offset in part by losses on portfolio loan sales in the

Home Finance and Auto businesses.
The Provision for credit losses totaled $724 million,up $275 million,or 61%,
from 2004.Results included a special provision in 2005 for Hurricane Katrina

of $250 million and a release in 2004 of $87 million in the Allowance for

loan losses related to the sale of the manufactured home loan portfolio.

Excluding these items,the Provision for credit losses would have been down

$62 million,or 12%.The decline reflected reductions in the Allowance for

loan losses due to improved credit trends in most consumer lending portfolios
and the benefit of certain portfolios in run-off.These reductions were partially

offset by the Merger and higher provision expense related to the decision to
retain subprime mortgage loans.
Noninterest expense rose to $8.6 billion,an increase of $1.8 billion from the
prior year,due primarily to the Merger.The increase also reflected continued

investment in retail banking distribution and sales,increased depreciation

expense on owned automobiles subject to operating leases and a $40 million

charge related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture.Expense 

savings across all businesses provided a favorable offset.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $2.2 billion,up from $1.5 billion a year ago.The

increase was due largely to the Merger.Excluding the benefit of the Merger,

earnings declined as lower MSR risk management results and reduced prime
mortgage production revenue offset the benefits of growth in loan balances,

wider spreads on deposit products and improvement in credit costs.
Total net revenue increased to $10.8 billion,up 45% from the prior year.Net
interest income increased by 48% to $7.7 billion,primarily due to the Merger,

growth in retained loan balances and wider spreads on deposit products.

Noninterest revenue increased to $3.1 billion,up 39%,due to the Merger

and higher mortgage servicing income.Both components of total revenue

included declines associated with risk managing the MSR asset and lower
prime mortgage originations.
The Provision for credit losses was down 14% to $449 million despite the
impact of the Merger.The effect of the Merger was offset by a reduction in the

Allowance for loan losses resulting from the sale of the manufactured home

loan portfolio,and continued positive credit quality trends in the consumer

lending businesses.
Noninterest expense totaled $6.8 billion,up 53% from the prior year,
primarily due to the Merger and continued investment to expand the branch

network.Partially offsetting the increase were merger-related expense savings

in all businesses.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
40JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Selected income statement data by businessYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Prime production and servicing
Production $692
$728$1,339
Servicing:Mortgage servicing revenue,
net of amortization635651453
MSR risk management results(b)283113784
Total net revenue
1,6101,4922,576
Noninterest expense9431,1151,124
Operating earnings
422240918
Consumer real estate lending
Total net revenue
2,7042,3761,473
Provision for credit losses29874240
Noninterest expense 940922606
Operating earnings 
935881414
Total Home Finance
Total net revenue
4,3143,8684,049
Provision for credit losses29874240
Noninterest expense 1,8832,0371,730
Operating earnings 
1,3571,1211,332
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)For additional information,see page 42 of this Annual Report.
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings were $1.4 billion,up $236 million from the prior year,

primarily due to the Merger,higher loan balances,reduced expenses and

improved MSR risk management results.
Operating earnings for the Prime Production & Servicing segment totaled
$422 million,up $182 million from the prior year.Net revenue of $1.6 billion

increased by $118 million,reflecting improved MSR risk management results.

The increase in MSR risk management results was due in part to the absence

of prior-year securities losses on repositioning of the risk management asset.

Decreased mortgage production revenue attributable to lower volume partially
offset this benefit.Noninterest expense of $943 million decreased by $172

million,reflecting lower production volume and operating efficiencies.
Operating earnings for the Consumer Real Estate Lending segment increased
by $54 million to $935 million.The current year included a loss of $120 million

associated with the transfer of $3.3 billion of mortgage loans to held-for-sale,

and a $140 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.Prior-year

results included a $95 million net benefit associated with the sale of a $4.0
billion manufactured home loan portfolio and a $52 million charge related to
a transfer of adjustable rate mortgage loans to held-for-sale.Excluding the

after-tax impact of these items,earnings would have been up $242 million,

reflecting the Merger,higher loan balances and lower expenses,partially 

offset by loan spread compression due to rising short-term interest rates and

a flat yield curve,which contributed to accelerated home equity loan payoffs.
Home Finance uses a combination of derivatives,AFS securities and trading
securities to manage changes in the fair value of the MSR asset.These risk

management activities are intended to protect the economic value of the

MSR asset by providing offsetting changes in the fair value of the related risk

management instruments.The type and amount of instruments used in 

this risk management activity change over time as market conditions and

approach dictate.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and ratios)
200520042003
Selected ending balancesTotal assets
$224,801
$226,560$139,316
Loans(b)197,299202,473121,921
Core deposits(c)161,666156,88575,850
Total deposits
191,415182,37286,162
Selected average balances
Total assets
$226,368
$185,928$147,435
Loans(d)198,153162,768120,750
Core deposits(c)160,641120,75880,116
Total deposits
186,811137,40489,793
Equity13,3839,0924,220
Headcount60,998
59,63232,278
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs(e)$572
$990$381
Nonperforming loans(f)1,3381,161569
Nonperforming assets1,5181,385775
Allowance for loan losses
1,3631,2281,094
Net charge-off rate
(d)0.31%0.67%0.40%
Allowance for loan losses to 
ending loans(b)0.750.671.04
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans(f)104107209
Nonperforming loans to total loans0.680.570.47
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes loans held for sale of $16,598 million,$18,022 million and $17,105 million at
December 31,2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.These amounts are not included in the

allowance coverage ratios.
(c)Includes demand and savings deposits.

(d)Average loans include loans held for sale of $15,675 million,$14,736 million and $25,293
million for 2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.These amounts are not included in the net

charge-off rate.
(e)Includes $406 million of charge-offs related to the manufactured home loan portfolio in
2004.(f)Nonperforming loans include loans held for sale of $27 million,$13 million and $45 million
at December 31,2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.These amounts are not included in the

allowance coverage ratios.
Home Finance Home Finance is comprised of two key business segments:Prime Production &
Servicing and Consumer Real Estate Lending.The Prime Production & Servicing

segment includes the operating results associated with the origination,sale

and servicing of prime mortgages.Consumer Real Estate Lending reflects the

operating results of consumer loans that are secured by real estate,retained

by the Firm and held in the portfolio.This portfolio includes prime and 

subprime first mortgages,home equity lines and loans,and manufactured

home loans.The Firm stopped originating manufactured home loans early in

2004 and sold substantially all of its remaining portfolio in 2004.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
41During 2005,positive MSR valuation adjustments of $777 million were 
partially offset by losses of $494 million on risk management instruments,

including net interest earned on AFS securities.In 2004,negative MSR valuation

adjustments of $248 million were more than offset by $361 million of aggregate
risk management gains,including net interest earned on AFS securities.

Unrealized losses on AFS securities were $174 million,$3 million 
and $144million at December 31,2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.For a further

discussion of MSRs,see Critical accounting estimates on page 83 and Note 15

on pages 114Ð116of this Annual Report.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings in the Prime Production & Servicing segment dropped to

$240 million from $918 million in the prior year.Results reflected a decrease

in prime mortgage production revenue,to $728 million from $1.3 billion,due

to a decline in mortgage originations.Operating earnings were also adversely

affected by a drop in MSR risk management revenue,to $113 million from

$784 million in the prior year.Results in 2004 included realized losses of 

$89 million on the sale of AFS securities associated with the risk management

of the MSR asset,compared with securities gains of $359 million in the prior

year.Noninterest expense was relatively flat at $1.1 billion.
Operating earnings for the Consumer Real Estate Lending segment more 
than doubled to $881 million from $414 million in the prior year.The increase

was largely due to the addition of the Bank One home equity lending business

but also reflected growth in retained loan balances and a $95 million net
benefit associated with the sale of the $4 billion manufactured home loan
portfolio;partially offsetting these increases were lower subprime mortgage

securitization gains as a result of managementÕs decision in 2004 to retain

these loans.These factors contributed to total net revenue rising 61% to 

$2.4 billion.The provision for credit losses,at $74 million,decreased by 69%

from a year ago.This improvement was the result of an $87 million reduction

in the allowance for loan losses associated with the manufactured home loan

portfolio sale,improved credit quality and lower delinquencies,partially offset

by the Merger.Noninterest expense totaled $922 million,up 52% from the

year-ago period,largely due to the Merger.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios and 
where otherwise noted)200520042003
Origination volume by channel (in billions)
Retail$83.9
$74.2$90.8
Wholesale50.448.565.6
Correspondent 14.022.844.5
Correspondent negotiated transactions
34.541.583.3
Total
182.8187.0284.2
Origination volume by business (in billions)
Mortgage$128.7
$144.6$259.5
Home equity54.142.424.7
Total
182.8187.0284.2
Business metrics (in billions)Third-party mortgage loans 
serviced (ending)(b)$467.5
$430.9$393.7
MSR net carrying value (ending)
6.55.14.8
End-of-period loans owned
Mortgage loans held-for-sale
13.714.215.9
Mortgage loans retained43.042.634.5
Home equity and other loans
76.867.924.1
Total end of period loans owned
133.5124.774.5
Average loans owned
Mortgage loans held-for-sale
12.112.123.5
Mortgage loans retained46.440.732.0
Home equity and other loans
70.247.019.4
Total average loans owned
128.799.874.9
Overhead ratio
44%53%43%
Credit data and quality statistics
30+ day delinquency rate
(c)1.61%1.27%1.81%
Net charge-offsMortgage$25
$19$26
Home equity and other loans
(d)129554109
Total net charge-offs
154573135
Net charge-off rate
Mortgage0.05%0.05%0.08%
Home equity and other loans
0.181.180.56
Total net charge-off rate
(e)0.130.650.26
Nonperforming assets(f)$998
$844$546
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes prime first mortgage loans and subprime loans.

(c) Excludes delinquencies related to loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased
from GNMA pools that are insured by government agencies of $0.9 billion,$0.9 billion and

$0.1 billion,for December 31,2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.These amounts are

excluded as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(d)Includes $406 million of charge-offs related to the manufactured home loan portfolio in 2004.

(e)Excludes mortgage loans held for sale.

(f) Excludes nonperforming assets related to loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans
repurchased from GNMA pools that are insured by government agencies of $1.1 billion,
$1.5 billion and $2.3 billion for December 31,2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.These

amounts are excluded as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
Home FinanceÕs origination channels are comprised of the 
following:RetailÐ Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home are directlycontacted by a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch

office,the Internet or by phone.Borrowers are frequently referred to 

a mortgage banker by real estate brokers,home builders or other 

third parties.
Wholesale
Ð A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to 
a mortgage banker at the Firm.Brokers are independent loan originators

that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide
funding for loans.
Correspondent
Ð Banks,thrifts,other mortgage banks and other 
financial institutions sell closed loans to the Firm.Correspondent negotiated transactions (ÒCNTÓ)
Ð Mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders,banks and bank-owned mortgage companies 

sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis.These transactions

supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportu-

nities in the servicing portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
42JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The following table details the MSR risk management results in the Home
Finance business:MSR risk management results
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Reported amounts:MSR valuation adjustments
(b)$777
$(248)$(253)
Derivative valuation adjustments 
and other risk management gains (losses)(c)(494)3611,037
MSR risk management results$283
$113$784
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Excludes subprime loan MSR activity of $(7) million and $(2) million in 2005 and 2004,
respectively.There was no subprime loan MSR activity in 2003.
(c)Includes gains,losses and interest income associated with derivatives,both designated 
and not designated,as a SFAS 133 hedge,and securities classified as both trading and

available-for-sale.
Consumer & Small Business BankingConsumer & Small Business Banking offers a full array of financial services
through a branch network spanning 17 states as well as through the Internet.

Product offerings include checking and savings accounts,mutual funds and

annuities,credit cards,mortgages and home equity loans,and loans for small

business customers (customers with annual sales generally less than $10 million).
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Noninterest revenue$2,929
$1,864$828
Net interest income5,4763,5211,594
Total net revenue
8,4055,3852,422
Provision for credit losses21416576
Noninterest expense5,4313,9812,358
Operating earnings (loss)
1,684760(4)
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings totaled $1.7 billion,up $924 million from the prior year.

While growth largely reflected the Merger,results also included increased

deposit balances and wider spreads,as well as higher debit card and other

banking fees.These factors contributed to net revenue increasing to $8.4 billion

from $5.4 billion in the prior year.The Provision for credit losses of $214 million

increased by $49 million;excluding the special provision of $90 million related

to Hurricane Katrina,the Provision would have decreased by $41 million from

the prior year,reflecting lower net charge-offs and improved credit quality

trends.Noninterest expense increased by $1.5 billion to $5.4 billion,as a

result of the Merger and continued investment in branch distribution and

sales,partially offset by merger efficiencies.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings totaled $760 million,up from a loss of $4 million in 

the prior-year period.The increase was largely due to the Merger but also

reflected wider spreads on deposits and lower expenses.These benefits were

partially offset by a higher Provision for credit losses.
Total net revenue was $5.4 billion,compared with $2.4 billion in the prior
year.While the increase was primarily attributable to the Merger,total net 

revenue also benefited from wider spreads on deposits.
The Provision for credit losses increased to $165 million from $76 million in
the prior year.The increase was in part due to the Merger but also reflected an

increase in the allowance for credit losses to cover high-risk portfolio segments.
The increase in Noninterest expense to $4.0 billion was largely attributable to
the Merger.Incremental expense from investment in the branch distribution

network was also a contributing factor.
The table below reconciles managementÕs disclosure of Home FinanceÕs revenue into the reported U.S.GAAP line items shown on the
 Consolidated statements of
income and in the related Notes to Consolidated financial statements:Year ended December 31,
(a)Prime production and servicing Consumer real estate lendingTotal revenue 
(in millions)20052004 2003 20052004 2003 20052004 2003Net interest income $426
$700$1,556
$2,672
$2,245$1,226
$3,098
$2,945$2,782
Securities / private equity gains (losses)
3(89)359
ÑÑÑ3(89)359
Mortgage fees and related income(b)1,181881661
32131247
1,2131,012908
Total
$1,610
$1,492$2,576
$2,704
$2,376$1,473
$4,314
$3,868$4,049
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes activity reported elsewhere as Other income.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
43Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios and 
where otherwise noted)200520042003
Business metrics (in billions)Selected ending balances
Small business loans$12.7
$12.5$2.2
Consumer and other loans(b)1.72.22.0
Total loans 
14.414.74.2
Core deposits(c)152.3146.366.4
Total deposits 
181.9171.876.7
Selected average balances
Small business loans$12.4
$7.3$2.1
Consumer and other loans(b)2.02.12.0
Total loans 
14.49.44.1
Core deposits(c)149.0109.664.8
Total deposits 
175.1126.274.4
Number of:Branches
2,6412,508561
ATMs
7,3126,6501,931
Personal bankers
7,0675,7501,820
Personal checking accounts (in thousands)
(d)7,8697,2351,984
Business checking accounts (in thousands)(d)924889347
Active online customers (in thousands)4,2313,359NA
Debit cards issued (in thousands)9,2668,3922,380
Overhead ratio
65%74%97%
Retail brokerage business metrics
Investment sales volume$11,144
$7,324$3,579
Number of dedicated investment sales representatives1,4491,364349
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offsSmall business $101
$77$35
Consumer and other loans407740
Total net charge-offs
14115475
Net charge-off rate
Small business 0.81%1.05%1.67%
Consumer and other loans2.003.672.00
Total net charge-off rate
0.981.641.83
Nonperforming assets$283
$299$72
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Primarily community development loans.

(c)Includes demand and savings deposits.

(d)Prior periods amounts have been restated to reflect inactive accounts that should have
been closed during those periods.
Auto & Education FinanceAuto & Education Finance provides automobile loans and leases to consumersand loans to commercial clients,primarily through a national network of

automotive dealers.The segment is also a top provider of loans to students 

at colleges and universities across the United States.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Total net revenue
$1,467
$1,145$842
Provision for credit losses212210205
Noninterest expense751490291
Operating earnings
307270206
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings were $307 million,up $37 million from the prior year.

The current year included a net loss of $83 million associated with a 

$2.3 billion auto loan securitization;a net loss of $42 million associated

with a $1.5 billion auto loan securitization;a $40 million charge related 

to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture;a benefit of $34 million

from the sale of a $2 billion recreational vehicle loan portfolio;and the 

$20 million special provision for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina.
The prior-year results included charges of $65 million related to auto lease

residuals.Excluding the after-tax impact of these items,operating earnings

would have increased by $90 million over the prior year,primarily due to the

Merger and improved credit quality.Results continued to reflect lower 

production volumes and narrower spreads.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings totaled $270 million,up 31% from the prior year.The

increase was due to the Merger,offset by narrower spreads and reduced 

origination volumes reflecting a competitive operating environment.
Total net revenue increased by 36% to $1.1 billion from the prior year.
This increase was due to the Merger,which more than offset a decline in net 

interest income,reflecting the competitive operating environment in 2004,and

incremental charges associated with the FirmÕs auto lease residual exposure.
The following is a brief description of selected terms used by Consumer & Small Business Banking.
¥ Personal bankers Ð 
Retail branch office personnel who acquire,retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assessing customer need
sand recommending and selling appropriate banking products and services.
¥ Investment sales representatives Ð 
Licensed retail branch sales personnel,assigned to support several branches,who assist with the sale of investment
products including college planning accounts,mutual funds,annuities and retirement accounts.
The Provision for credit losses totaled $210 million,up 2% from the prior
year.The increase was due to the Merger but was largely offset by a lower

Provision for credit losses,reflecting favorable credit trends.
Noninterest expense increased by 68% to $490 million,largely due to 
the Merger.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios and 
where otherwise noted)200520042003
Business metrics (in billions)End-of-period loans and lease related assets  
Loans outstanding $44.7
$54.6$33.7
Lease related assets(b)5.28.09.5
Total end-of-period loans and lease 
related assets49.962.643.2
Average loans and lease related assets 
Loans outstanding(c)$48.5
$44.3$32.0
Lease related assets(d)6.69.09.7
Total average loans and lease 
related assets(c)(d)55.153.341.7
Overhead ratio
51%43%35%
Credit quality statistics
30+ day delinquency rate
1.65%1.55%1.42%
Net charge-offsLoans$257
$219$130
Lease receivables
(d)204441
Total net charge-offs
277263171
Net charge-off rate
Loans(c)0.57%0.52%0.43%
Lease receivables
0.320.490.42
Total net charge-off rate
(c)0.540.520.43
Nonperforming assets$237
$242$157
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes operating lease-related assets of $0.9 billion for 2005.Balances prior to January 1,
2005,were insignificant.
(c)Average loans include loans held for sale of $3.5 billion,$2.3 billion and $1.8 billion for,
2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.These are not included in the net charge-off rate.
(d)Includes operating lease-related assets of $0.4 billion for 2005.Balances prior to January 1,
2005,were insignificant.These are not included in the net charge-off rate.
Insurance
Insurance is a provider of financial protection products and services,including
life insurance,annuities and debt protection.Products and services are 

distributed through both internal lines of business and external markets.

On February 7,2006,the Firm signed a definitive agreement to sell its life

insurance and annuity underwriting business.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Total net revenue
$644
$393$115
Noninterest expense52031792
Operating earnings
794813
Memo:Consolidated gross 
insurance-related revenue
(b)1,6421,191611
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes revenue reported in the results of other businesses.
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings totaled $79 million,an increase of $31 million from the prior

year,on net revenues of $644 million.The increase was due primarily to the

Merger.Results also reflected an increase in proprietary annuity sales commis-

sions paid and lower expenses from merger savings and other efficiencies.
2004 compared with 2003 
Operating earnings totaled $48 million on Total net revenue of $393 million

in 2004.The increases in Total net revenue and Noninterest expense over the

prior year were due almost entirely to the Merger.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except 
where otherwise noted)200520042003
Business metrics Ð ending balances
Invested assets $7,767
$7,368$1,559
Policy loans 
388397Ñ
Insurance policy and claims reserves
7,7747,2791,096
Term life sales Ð first year annualized 
premiums 6028Ñ
Term life premium revenues 
477234Ñ
Proprietary annuity sales706208548
Number of policies in force Ð direct/assumed
(in thousands) 2,4412,611631
Insurance in force Ð direct/assumed
$282,903
$277,827$31,992
Insurance in force Ð retained
87,75380,69131,992
A.M.Best rating
AAA(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Insurance.
¥ Proprietary annuity sales 
represent annuity contracts marketed through and issued by subsidiaries of the Firm.
¥ Insurance in force Ð direct/assumed 
includes the aggregate face amount of insurance policies directly underwritten and assumed 
through reinsurance.
¥ Insurance in force Ð retained 
includes the aggregate face amounts of insurance policies directly underwritten and assumed through 
reinsurance,after reduction for face amounts ceded to reinsurers.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
44JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
45Card Services
Card Services is one of the largest issuers of credit cards in the
United States,with more than 110 million cards in circulation,

and is the largest merchant acquirer.CS offers a wide variety 

of products to satisfy the needs of its cardmembers,including

cards issued on behalf of many well-known partners,such 

as major airlines,hotels,universities,retailers and other 

financial institutions.
JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of Òmanaged receivablesÓto evaluate 
the credit performance of the underlying credit card loans,both sold and not

sold:as the same borrower is continuing to use the credit card for ongoing

charges,a borrowerÕs credit performance will affect both the receivables 

sold under SFAS 140 and those not sold.Thus,in its disclosures regarding

managed receivables,JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they

were still on the balance sheet in order to disclose the credit performance
(such as net charge-off rates) of the entire managed credit card portfolio.
Operating results exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on revenue,
the Provision for credit losses,net charge-offs and receivables.Securitization

does not change reported Net income versus operating earnings;however,it

does affect the classification of items on the Consolidated statements of income.
Selected income statement data Ð managed basisYear ended December 31,
(a)(b)(in millions,except ratios)
200520042003
RevenueAsset management,administration and commissions
$Ñ$75$108
Credit card income3,3512,179930
Other income21211754
Noninterest revenue3,563
2,3711,092
Net interest income11,803
8,3745,052
Total net revenue15,366
10,7456,144
Provision for credit losses(c)7,3464,8512,904
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense1,081893582
Noncompensation expense3,1702,4851,336
Amortization of intangibles748505260
Total noninterest expense4,999
3,8832,178
Operating earnings before 
income tax expense3,021
2,0111,062
Income tax expense1,114737379
Operating earnings$1,907
$1,274$683
Memo:Net securitization 
gains (amortization)$56
$(8)$1
Financial metrics
ROE16%17%20%
Overhead ratio
333635
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)As a result of the integration of Chase Merchant Services and Paymentech merchant 
processing businesses into a joint venture,beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005,Total

net revenue,Noninterest expense and pre-tax earnings have been reduced to reflect the

deconsolidation of Paymentech.There is no impact to operating earnings.
(c)2005 includes a $100 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.
2005 compared with 2004 
Operating earnings of $1.9 billion were up $633 million,or 50%,from the

prior year due to the Merger.In addition,lower expenses driven by merger

savings,stronger underlying credit quality and higher revenue from increased

loan balances and charge volume were partially offset by the impact of
increased bankruptcies.
Net revenue was $15.4 billion,up $4.6 billion,or 43%.Net interest income
was $11.8 billion,up $3.4 billion,or 41%,primarily due to the Merger,and

the acquisition of a private label portfolio.In addition,higher loan balances

were partially offset by narrower loan spreads and the reversal of revenue
related to increased bankruptcies.Noninterest revenue of $3.6 billion was up

$1.2 billion,or 50%,due to the Merger and higher interchange income from

higher charge volume,partially offset by higher volume-driven payments to

partners,higher expense related to rewards programs and the impact of the

deconsolidation of Paymentech.
The Provision for credit losses was $7.3 billion,up $2.5 billion,or 51%,
primarily due to the Merger,and included the acquisition of a private label

portfolio.The provision also increased due to record bankruptcy-related net

charge-offs resulting from the new bankruptcy legislation,which became

effective on October 17,2005.Finally,the Allowance for loan losses was

increased in part by the special provision for credit losses related to Hurricane
Katrina.These factors were partially offset by lower contractual net charge-offs.

Despite a record level of bankruptcy losses,the net charge-off rate improved.

The managed net charge-off rate was 5.21%,down from 5.27% in the prior

year.The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 2.79%,down from 3.70% 

in the prior year,driven primarily by accelerated loss recognition of delinquent

accounts as a result of the bankruptcy reform legislation and strong underlying
credit quality.
Noninterest expense of $5.0 billion increased by $1.1 billion,or 29%,primarily
due to the Merger,which included the acquisition of a private label portfolio.

Merger savings,including lower processing and compensation costs and the

impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech,were partially offset by higher

spending on marketing.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings of $1.3 billion increased by $591 million compared with

the prior year,primarily due to the Merger.In addition,earnings benefited

from higher loan balances and charge volume,partially offset by a higher 

Provision for credit losses and higher expenses.
Total net revenue of $10.7 billion increased by $4.6 billion.Net interest
income of $8.4 billion increased by $3.3 billion,primarily due to the Merger

and higher loan balances.Noninterest revenue of $2.4 billion increased by

$1.3 billion,primarily due to the Merger and increased interchange income

resulting from higher charge-off volume.These factors were partially offset by

higher volume-driven payments to partners,reflecting the sharing of income

and increased rewards expense.
The Provision for credit losses of $4.9 billion increased by $1.9 billion,primarily
due to the Merger and growth in credit card receivables.Credit ratios remained

strong,benefiting from reduced contractual and bankruptcy charge-offs.The

net charge-off ratio was 5.27%.The 30-day delinquency ratio was 3.70%.
Noninterest expense of $3.9 billion increased by $1.7 billion,primarily related
to the Merger.In addition,expenses increased due to higher marketing

expenses and volume-based processing expenses,partially offset by lower

compensation expenses.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
46JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount,ratios
and where otherwise noted)200520042003
% of average managed outstandings:
Net interest income8.65%9.16%9.95%
Provision for credit losses5.395.315.72
Noninterest revenue2.612.592.15
Risk adjusted margin(b)5.886.456.38
Noninterest expense3.674.254.29
Pre-tax income (ROO)2.212.202.09
Operating earnings
1.401.391.35
Business metrics
Charge volume (in billions)$301.9
$193.6$88.2
Net accounts opened (in thousands)21,0567,5234,177
Credit cards issued (in thousands)110,43994,28535,103
Number of registered  Internet customers (in millions)14.613.63.7
Merchant acquiring business
(c)Bank card volume (in billions)$563.1
$396.2$261.2
Total transactions (in millions)
(d)15,4999,0494,254
Selected ending balancesLoans:Loans on balance sheets
$71,738
$64,575$17,426
Securitized loans 70,52770,79534,856
Managed loans$142,265$135,370$52,282
Selected average balances
Managed assets$141,933$94,741$51,406
Loans:Loans on balance sheets
$67,334
$38,842$17,604
Securitized loans69,05552,59033,169
Managed loans$136,389$91,432$50,773
Equity11,8007,6083,440
Headcount18,629
19,59810,612
Credit quality statistics 
Net charge-offs $7,100
$4,821$2,996
Managed net charge-off rate
5.21%5.27%5.90%
Delinquency ratios 
30+ days2.79%3.70%4.68%
90+ days1.271.722.19
Allowance for loan losses
$3,274
$2,994$1,225
Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans4.56%4.64%7.03%
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Represents Total net revenue less Provision for credit losses.

(c)Represents 100% of the merchant acquiring business.

(d)Prior periods have been restated to conform methodologies following the integration of
Chase Merchant Services and Paymentech merchant processing businesses.
The financial information presented below reconciles reported basis and 
managed basis to disclose the effect of securitizations.
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Income statement dataCredit card incomeReported data for the period$6,069
$4,446$2,309
Securitization adjustments(2,718)(2,267)(1,379)
Managed credit card income
$3,351
$2,179$930
Other incomeReported data for the period$212
$203$125
Securitization adjustmentsÑ(86)(71)
Managed other income$212
$117$54
Net interest incomeReported data for the period$5,309
$3,123$1,732
Securitization adjustments6,4945,2513,320
Managed net interest income$11,803
$8,374$5,052
Total net revenue
(b)Reported data for the period$11,590
$7,847$4,274
Securitization adjustments3,7762,8981,870
Managed total net revenue$15,366
$10,745$6,144
Provision for credit lossesReported data for the period(c)$3,570
$1,953$1,034
Securitization adjustments3,7762,8981,870
Managed provision for credit losses$7,346
$4,851$2,904
Balance sheet Ð average balances
Total average assets
Reported data for the period$74,753
$43,657$19,041
Securitization adjustments67,18051,08432,365
Managed average assets
$141,933$94,741$51,406
Credit quality statistics
Net charge-offsReported net charge-offs data 
for the period$3,324
$1,923$1,126
Securitization adjustments3,7762,8981,870
Managed net charge-offs$7,100
$4,821$2,996
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes noninterest revenue and Net interest income.

(c)2005 includes a $100 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.
The following is a brief description of selected businessmetrics within Card Services.
¥ Charge volume
Ð Represents the dollar amount of cardmember
purchases,balance transfers and cash advance activity.
¥ Net accounts opened
Ð Includes originations,portfolio purchases
and sales.
¥ Merchant acquiring business
Ð Represents an entity thatprocesses payments for merchants.JPMorgan Chase is a partner in

Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC.
¥ Bank card volume
Ð Represents the dollar amount of transactions
processed for the merchants.
¥ Total transactions
Ð Represents the number of transactions and
authorizations processed for the merchants.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
47Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking serves more than 25,000 clients,including
corporations,municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-

profit entities with annual revenues generally ranging from 

$10 million to $2 billion.While most Middle Market clients are

within the Retail Financial Services footprint,CB also covers

larger corporations,as well as local governments and financial

institutions on a national basis.CB is a market leader with supe-

rior client penetration across the businesses it serves.Local mar-

ket presence,coupled with industry expertise and excellent

client service and risk management,enable CB to offer superior

financial advice.Partnership with other JPMorgan Chase busi-

nesses positions CB to deliver broad product capabilities Ð

including lending,treasury services,investment banking,and

asset and wealth management Ð and meet its clientsÕ financial
needs.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200520042003
RevenueLending & deposit related fees$575
$441$301
Asset management,administration 
and commissions603219
Other income(b)35120973
Noninterest revenue986
682393
Net interest income2,610
1,692959
Total net revenue3,596
2,3741,352
Provision for credit losses(c)73416
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense661465285
Noncompensation expense1,146843534
Amortization of intangibles65353
Total noninterest expense1,872
1,343822
Operating earnings before income 
tax expense1,651
990524
Income tax expense 644382217
Operating earnings$1,007
$608$307
Financial ratios
ROE30%29%29%
ROA1.781.671.87
Overhead ratio
525761
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)IB-related and commercial card revenues are included in Other income.

(c)2005 includes a $35 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.
Commercial Banking operates in 10 of the top 15 major U.S.metropolitan
areas and is divided into three customer segments:Middle Market Banking,

Mid-Corporate Banking and Real Estate.General coverage for corporate

clients is provided by Middle Market Banking,which covers clients with annual

revenues generally up to $500 million.Mid-Corporate Banking covers clients

with annualrevenues generally ranging between $500 million and $2 billion

and focuses on clients that have broader investment banking needs.The third

segment,Real Estate,serves investors in,and developers of,for-sale housing,

multifamilyrental,retail,office,and industrial properties.In addition to these
three customer segments,Commercial Banking offers several productsto the
FirmÕs entire customer base:Chase Business Credit,the #1 asset-based lender

for 2005,provides asset-based financing,syndications,and collateral analysis,

and Chase Equipment Leasing offers a variety of equipment finance and leas-

ing products,with specialties in aircraft finance,public sector,and information

technology.Given this structure,Commercial Banking manages a customer

base and loan portfolio that is highly diversified across a broad range of

industries and geographic locations.
2005 compared with 2004 
Operating earnings of $1.0 billion were up $399 million from the prior year,

primarily due to the Merger.
Net revenue of $3.6 billion increased by $1.2 billion,or 51%,primarily as a
result of the Merger.In addition to the overall increase from the Merger,Net

interest income of $2.6 billion was positively affected by wider spreads on 

higher volume related to liability balances and increased loans,partially offset

by narrower loan spreads.Noninterest revenue of $986 million was lower due

to a decline in deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates,partially offset

by increased investment banking revenue.
Each business within Commercial Banking demonstrated revenue growth
over the prior year,primarily due to the Merger.Middle Market revenue was

$2.4 billion,an increase of $870 million over the prior year;Mid-Corporate

Banking revenue was $548 million,an increase of $181 million;and Real

Estate revenue was $534 million,up $166 million.In addition to the Merger,

revenue was higher for each business due to wider spreads and higher volume

related to liability balances and increased investment banking revenue,

partially offset by narrower loan spreads.
Provision for credit losses of $73 million increased by $32 million,primarily
due to a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina,increased loan balances

and refinements in the data used to estimate the allowance for credit 

losses.The credit quality of the portfolio was strong with net charge-offs of 

$26 million,down $35 million from the prior year,and nonperforming 

loans of $272 million,down $255 million.
Noninterest expense of $1.9 billion increased by $529 million,or 39%,
primarily due to the Merger and to an increase in allocated unit costs for
Treasury Services products.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $608 million,an increase of 98%,primarily due 

to the Merger.
Total net revenue was $2.4 billion,an increase of 76%,primarily due to the
Merger.In addition to the overall increase related to the Merger,Net interest

income of $1.7 billion was positively affected by higher liability balances,

partially offset by lower lending-related revenue.Noninterest revenue of

$682 million was positively affected by higher investment banking fees and

higher gains on the sale of loans and securities acquired in satisfaction of
debt,partially offset by lower deposit-related fees,which often decline as

interest rates rise.
The Provision for credit losses was $41 million,an increase of $35 million,
primarily due to the Merger.Excluding the impact of the Merger,the provision

was higher in 2004.Lower net charge-offs in 2004 were partially offset by

smaller reductions in the allowance for credit losses in 2004 relative to 2003.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
48JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion,an increase of $521 million,or 63%,
primarily related to the Merger.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and ratios)
200520042003
Revenue by product:
Lending$1,076
$764$396
Treasury services
2,2991,467896
Investment banking21312066
Other823(6)
Total Commercial Banking revenue
3,5962,3741,352
Revenue by business:Middle Market Banking
$2,369
$1,499$772
Mid-Corporate Banking
548367194
Real Estate534368206
Other145140180
Total Commercial Banking revenue
3,5962,3741,352
Selected average balances
Total assets
$56,561
$36,435$16,460
Loans and leases51,79732,41714,049
Liability balances(b)73,39552,82432,880
Equity3,4002,0931,059
Average loans by business:
Middle market
$31,156
$17,471$5,609
Mid-corporate banking
6,3754,3482,880
Real estate10,6397,5862,831
Other3,6273,0122,729
Total Commercial Banking loans
51,79732,41714,049
Headcount4,456
4,5551,730
Credit data and quality statistics:
Net charge-offs $26
$61$76
Nonperforming loans272527123
Allowance for loan losses
1,3921,322122
Allowance for lending-related commitments
15416926
Net charge-off rate
0.05%0.19%0.54%
Allowance for loan losses to average loans
2.694.080.87
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans51225199
Nonperforming loans to average loans
0.531.630.88
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to on-balance sheet liabilities.
Commercial Banking revenues are comprised of the following:
Lendingincludes a variety of financing alternatives,which are often 
provided on a basis secured by receivables,inventory,equipment,real

estate or other assets.Products include:
¥ Term loans

¥ Revolving lines of credit
¥ Bridge financing
¥ Asset-based structures

¥ Leases
Treasury services
includes a broad range of products and services
enabling clients to transfer,invest and manage the receipt and 

disbursement of funds,while providing the related information reporting.

These products and services include:
¥ U.S.dollar and multi-currency clearing

¥ ACH

¥ Lockbox

¥ Disbursement and reconciliation services
¥ Check deposits
¥ Other check and currency-related services
¥ Trade finance and logistics solutions

¥ Commercial card 
¥ Deposit products,sweeps and money market mutual funds

Investment bankingproducts provide clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives,as well as balance sheet and risk management tools,

through:¥ Loan syndications
¥ Investment-grade debt

¥ Asset-backed securities

¥ Private placements

¥ High-yield bonds 
¥ Equity underwriting
¥ Advisory
¥ Interest rate derivatives

¥ Foreign exchange hedges
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
49Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in providing trans-
action,investment and information services to support the needs

of corporations,issuers and institutional investors worldwide.

TSS is one of the largest cash management providers in the

world and a leading global custodian.The TS business provides a
variety of cash management products,trade finance 
and logisticssolutions,wholesale card products,and short-term liquidity man-

agement tools.The IS business providescustody,
fund services,
securities lending,and performance measurement and execution

products.The ITS business provides trustee,depository 
and admin-istrative services for debt and equity issuers.TS partners with

the Commercial Banking,Consumer & Small Business Banking

and Asset & Wealth Management businesses to serve clients

firmwide.As a result,certain TS revenues are 
included in othersegmentsÕ results.TSS combined the management of the IS 
and ITSbusinesses under the name WSS to create an integrated fran-

chise which provides custody and 
investor services as well assecurities clearance and trust services to 
clients globally.
Beginning January 1,2006,TSS will report results for two 

divisions:TS and WSS.
Selected income statement data Year ending December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200520042003
RevenueLending & deposit related fees$728
$647$470
Asset management,administration 
and commissions2,9082,4451,903
Other income543382288
Noninterest revenue4,179
3,4742,661
Net interest income2,062
1,383947
Total net revenue6,241
4,8573,608
Provision for credit lossesÑ71Credit reimbursement (to) from IB(b)(154)(90)36
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense2,0611,6291,257
Noncompensation expense2,2932,3911,745
Amortization of intangibles1169326
Total noninterest expense4,470
4,1133,028
Operating earnings before income 
tax expense1,617
647615
Income tax expense 580207193
Operating earnings$1,037
$440$422
Financial ratios
ROE55%17%15%
Overhead ratio
728584
Pre-tax margin ratio
(c)261317
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the IB
credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.For a further discussion,see Credit

reimbursement on page 35 of this Annual Report.
(c)Pre-tax margin represents Operating earnings before income tax expense divided by Total
net revenue,which is a comprehensive measure of pre-tax performance and is another 

basis by which TSS management evaluates its performance and that of its competitors.

Pre-tax margin is an effective measure of TSSÕ earnings,after all operating costs are taken

into consideration.
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings were $1.0 billion,an increase of $597 million,or 136%.

Primarily driving the improvement in revenue were the Merger,business growth,

and widening spreads on and growth in average liability balances.
Noninterestexpense increased primarily due to the Merger and higher compensation
expense.
Results for 2005 also included charges of $58 million (after-tax) 
to terminate a client contract.Results for 2004 also included software-

impairment charges of $97 million (after-tax) and a gain of $10 million 

(after-tax) on the sale of a business.
TSS net revenue of $6.2 billion increased $1.4 billion,or 28%.Net interest
income grew to $2.1 billion,up $679 million,due to wider spreads on liability

balances,a change in the corporate deposit pricing methodology in 2004 and

growth in average liability balances.Noninterest revenue of $4.2 billion

increased by $705 million,or 20%,due to product growth across TSS,the

Merger and the acquisition of Vastera.Leading the product revenue growth

was an increase in assets under custody to $11.2 trillion,primarily driven by

market value appreciation and new business,along with growth in wholesale

card,securities lending,foreign exchange,trust product,trade,clearing and

ACH revenues.Partially offsetting this growth in noninterest revenue was a

decline in deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates and the absence,

in the current period,of a gain on the sale of a business.
TS net revenue of $2.6 billion grew by $628 million,Investor Services net 
revenue of $2.2 billion grew by $446 million,and Institutional Trust Services

net revenue of $1.5 billion grew by $310 million.TSS firmwide net revenue,

which includes TS net revenue recorded in other lines of business,grew to

$8.8 billion,up $2.3 billion,or 35%.Treasury Services firmwide net revenue

grew to $5.2 billion,up $1.6 billion,or 43%.
Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was $154 million,an increase
of $64 million,primarily as a result of the Merger.TSS is charged a credit

reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the Investment
Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.
Noninterest expense of $4.5 billion was up $357 million,or 9%,due to the
Merger,increased compensation expense resulting from new business growth

and the Vastera acquisition,and charges of $93 million to terminate a client

contract.Partially offsetting these increases were higher product unit costscharged

to other lines of business,primarily Commercial Banking,lower allocations 

of Corporate segment expenses,merger savings and business efficiencies.

The prior year included software-impairment charges of $155 million.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings for the year were $440 million,an increase of $18 million,

or 4%.Results in 2004 include an after-tax gain of $10 million on the sale 

of an IS business.Prior-year results include an after-tax gain of $22 million 

on the sale of an ITS business.Excluding these one-time gains,operating 

earningswould have increased by $30 million,or 8%.Both net revenue 

and Noninterest expense increased primarily as a result of the Merger,the 

acquisition of Bank OneÕs Corporate Trust business in November 2003 and 

the acquisition of Electronic Financial Services (ÒEFSÓ) in January 2004.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
50JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
TSS net revenue improved by 35% to $4.9 billion.This revenue growth reflected
the benefit of the Merger,the acquisitions noted above,and improved product

revenues across TSS.Net interest income grew to $1.4 billion from $947 million

as a result of average liability balance growth of 46%,to $126 billion,a change

in the corporate deposit pricing methodology in 2004 and wider depositspreads.

Growth in fees and commissions was driven by a 22% increase in assets under

custody to $9.3 trillion as well as new business growth in trade,commercial

card,global equity products,securities lending,fund services,clearing and ACH.

Partially offsetting these improvements were lower deposit-related fees,which

often decline as interest rates rise,and a soft municipal bond market.
TS net revenue grew to $2.0 billion,IS to $1.7 billion and ITS to $1.2 billion.
TSS firmwide net revenue grew by 41% to $6.5 billion.TSS firmwide net 

revenues include TS net revenues recorded in other lines of business.
Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was $90 million,compared with
a credit from the Investment Bank of $36 million in the prior year,principally

due to the Merger and a change in methodology.TSS is charged a credit

reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the Investment
Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.
Noninterest expense totaled $4.1 billion,up from $3.0 billion,reflecting the
Merger,the acquisitions noted above,$155 million of software impairment

charges,upfront transition expenses related to on-boarding new custody and

fund accounting clients,and legal and technology-related expenses.
Selected metrics Year ending December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and where 
otherwise noted)200520042003
Revenue by businessTreasury Services
$2,622
$1,994$1,200
Investor Services2,1551,7091,448
Institutional Trust Services
1,4641,154960
Total net revenue$6,241
$4,857$3,608
Business metricsAssets under custody (in billions)(b)$11,249
$9,300$7,597
Corporate trust securities 
under administration (in billions)
(c)6,8186,6766,127
Number of:US$ ACH transactions originated (in millions)
2,9661,994NA
Total US$ clearing volume (in thousands)
95,71381,162NA
International electronic funds transfer 
volume (in thousands)(d)89,53745,654NA
Wholesale check volume (in millions)3,856NANA
Wholesale cards issued (in thousands)(e)13,20611,787NA
Selected average balances

Total assets
$26,947
$23,430$18,379
Loans10,4307,8496,009
Liability balances(f)164,305125,71285,994
Equity1,9002,5442,738
Headcount24,484
22,61215,145
TSS firmwide metricsTreasury Services firmwide revenue
(g)$5,224
$3,665$2,214
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide revenue(g)8,8436,5284,622
Treasury Services firmwide overhead ratio
(h)55%62%62%
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide overhead ratio
(h)627476
Treasury Services firmwide liability balances
(i)$139,579$102,785$64,819
Treasury & Securities Services firmwide 
liability balances(i)237,699178,536118,873
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)2005 assets under custody include approximately $530 billion of ITS assets under custody
that have not been included previously.At December 31,2005,approximately 5% of total

assets under custody were trust-related.(c)Corporate trust securities under administration include debt held in trust on behalf of third
parties and debt serviced as agent.(d)International electronic funds transfer includes non-US$ ACH and clearing volume.

(e)Wholesale cards issued include domestic commercial card,stored value card,prepaid card,
and government electronic benefit card products.
(f)Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to on-balance sheet liabilities.

(g) Firmwide revenue includes TS revenue recorded in the Commercial Banking,Consumer &
Small Business Banking and Asset & Wealth Management businesses (see below) and

excludes FX revenues recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity.TSS firmwide FX revenue,

which includes FX revenue recorded in TSS and FX revenue associated with TSS customers

who are FX customers of the IB,was $382 million,$320 million and $256 million for the

years ended December 31,2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.
(h) Overhead ratios have been calculated based on firmwide revenues and TSS and TS expenses,
respectively,including those allocated to certain other lines of business.FX revenues and

expenses recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity are not included in this ratio.
(i) Firmwide liability balances include TSÕ liability balances recorded in certain lines of business.
Liability balances associated with TS customers who are also customers of the Commercial

Banking line of business are not included in TS liability balances.
(in millions)(a)200520042003
Treasury Services revenue reported in
Commercial Banking
$2,299
$1,467$896
Treasury Services revenue reported in
other lines of business
303204118
Treasury & Securities Services
firmwide metrics include certain TSS
product revenues and liability balances reported in other lines of business
related to customers who are also customers of those other lines of busi-
ness.In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and

revenues,management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances,

revenues and overhead ratios in assessing financial performance for TSS.

Firmwide metrics are necessary,in managementÕs view,in order to under-

stand the aggregate TSS business.
Asset & Wealth Management 
Asset & Wealth Management provides investment advice and
management for institutions and individuals.With Assets under

supervision of $1.1 trillion,AWM is one of the largest asset and

wealth managers in the world.AWM serves four distinct client

groups through three businesses:institutions through JPMorgan

Asset Management;ultra-high-net-worth clients through the

Private Bank;high-net-worth clients through Private Client Services;

and retail clients through JPMorgan Asset Management.The

majority of AWMÕs client assetsare in actively managed portfolios.

AWM has global investment expertise in equities,fixed income,

real estate,hedge funds,private equity and liquidity,including

both money market instruments and bank deposits.AWM also

provides trust and estate services to ultra-high-net-worth and

high-net-worth clients,and retirement services for corporations

and individuals.
Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200520042003
RevenueAsset management,administration 
and commissions$4,189
$3,140$2,258
Other income394243224
Noninterest revenue4,583
3,3832,482
Net interest income1,081
796488
Total net revenue5,664
4,1792,970
Provision for credit losses(b)(56)(14)35
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense2,1791,5791,213
Noncompensation expense1,5821,5021,265
Amortization of intangibles99528
Total noninterest expense3,860
3,1332,486
Operating earnings before 
income tax expense1,860
1,060449
Income tax expense 
644379162
Operating earnings$1,216
$681$287
Financial ratios
ROE51%17%5%
Overhead ratio
687584
Pre-tax margin ratio
(c)332515
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)2005 includes a $3 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.

(c)Pre-tax margin represents Operating earnings before income tax expense divided by Total net
revenue,which is a comprehensive measure of pre-tax performance and is another basis by

which AWM management evaluates its performance and that of its competitors.Pre-tax margin

is an effective measure of AWMÕs earnings,after all costs are taken into consideration.
2005 compared with 2004
Operating earnings of $1.2 billion were up $535 million from the prior 

year due to the Merger and increased revenue,partially offset by higher 

compensation expense.
Net revenue was $5.7 billion,up $1.5 billion,or 36%.Noninterest revenue,
primarily fees and commissions,of $4.6 billion was up $1.2 billion,principally

due to the Merger,the acquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge Capital

Management in 2004,net asset inflows and global equity market appreciation.

Net interest income of $1.1 billion was up $285 million,primarily due to the

Merger,higher deposit and loan balances,partially offset by narrower deposit

spreads.
Private Bank client segment revenue of $1.7 billion increased by $135 million.

Retail client segment revenue of $1.5 billion increased by $360 million.
Institutional client segment revenue was up $504 million to $1.4 billion due to

the acquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management.Private

Client Services client segment revenue grew by $486 million,to $1.0 billion.
Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $56 million,compared with a 
benefit of $14 million in the prior year,due to lower net charge-offs and

refinements in the data used to estimate the allowance for credit losses.
Noninterest expense of $3.9 billion increased by $727 million,or 23%,
reflecting the Merger,the acquisition of Highbridge and increased compensa-

tion expense related primarily to higher performance-based incentives.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $681 million,up 137% from the prior year,due

largely to the Merger but also driven by increased revenue and a decrease 
in the Provision for credit losses;these were partially offset by higher

Compensation expense.
Total net revenue was $4.2 billion,up 41%,primarily due to the Merger.
Additionally,fees and commissions increased due to global equity market

appreciation,net asset inflows and the acquisition of JPMorgan Retirement 

PlanServices (ÒRPSÓ) in 2003.Fees and commissions also increased due to an

improved product mix,with an increased percentage of assets in higher-yielding

products.Net interest income increased due to deposit and loan growth.
The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $14 million,a decrease of 
$49 million,due to an improvement in credit quality.
Noninterest expense was $3.1 billion,up 26%,due to the Merger,increased
Compensation expense and increased technology and marketing initiatives.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and ranking 
data,and where otherwise noted)
200520042003
Revenue by client segment
Private bank
$1,689
$1,554$1,437
Retail1,5441,184774
Institutional 1,395891681
Private client services
1,03655078
Total net revenue$5,664
$4,179$2,970
Business metricsNumber of:Client advisors1,4301,333651
Retirement Plan Services participants1,299,000918,000756,000
% of customer assets in 4 & 5 Star Funds(b)46%48%48%
% of AUM in 1
stand 2ndquartiles:(c)1 year696657
3 years687169
5 years746865
Selected average balances
Total assets
$41,599
$37,751$33,780
Loans26,61021,54516,678
Deposits(d)42,12332,43120,576
Equity2,4003,9025,507
Headcount12,127
12,2878,520
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
51ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
52JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs $23
$72$9
Nonperforming loans10479173
Allowance for loan losses
132216130
Allowance for lending-related commitments
454Net charge-off rate
0.09%0.33%0.05%
Allowance for loan losses to average loans
0.501.000.78
Allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans
12727375
Nonperforming loans to average loans
0.390.371.04
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Star rankings derived from Morningstar and Standard & PoorÕs.

(c)Quartile rankings sourced from Lipper and Standard & PoorÕs.

(d)Reflects the transfer in 2005 of certain consumer deposits from Retail Financial Services 
to Asset & Wealth Management.
Assets under supervision2005 compared with 2004
Assets under supervision (ÒAUSÓ) at December 31,2005,were $1.1 trillion,

up 4%,or $43 billion,from the prior year despite a $33 billion reduction due

to the sale of BrownCo.Assets under management (ÒAUMÓ) were $847 billion,

up 7%.The increase was primarily the result of net asset inflows in equity-

related products and global equity market appreciation.The Firm also has 

a 43% interest in American Century Companies,Inc.,whose AUM totaled 

$101 billion and $98 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.

Custody,brokerage,administration,and deposits were $302 billion,down

$13 billion due to a $33 billion reduction from the sale of BrownCo.
2004 compared with 2003
Assets under supervision at December 31,2004,were $1.1 trillion,up 45% from

2003,and Assets under management were $791 billion,up 41% from the prior

year.The increases were primarily the result of the Merger,as well as market

appreciation,net asset inflows and the acquisition of a majority interest in

Highbridge Capital Management.The Firm also has a 43% interest in American

Century Companies,Inc.,whose AUM totaled $98 billion and $87 billion at

December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.Custody,brokerage,administration,

and deposits were $315 billion,up 55%,due to market appreciation,the

Merger and net inflows across all products.
Assets under supervision(a) (in billions)As of or for the year ended December 31,20052004 Assets by asset classLiquidity$238
$232
Fixed income 165171Equities & balanced370326Alternatives7462Total Assets under management847
791Custody/brokerage/administration/deposits
302315Total Assets under supervision $1,149
$1,106
Assets by client segment Institutional $481
$466
Private Bank 
145139Retail 169133Private Client Services 
5253Total Assets under management $847
$791
Institutional $484
$487
Private Bank 
318304Retail 245221Private Client Services 
10294Total Assets under supervision $1,149
$1,106
Assets by geographic region
U.S./Canada 
$562
$554
International285237Total Assets under management$847
$791
U.S./Canada 
$805
$815
International344291Total Assets under supervision$1,149
$1,106
Mutual fund assets by asset classLiquidity$182
$183
Fixed income4541Equity150104Total mutual fund assets$377
$328
Assets under management rollforward
(b)Beginning balance,January 1
$791
$561
Flows:Liquidity83Fixed incomeÑ(8)Equity,balanced and alternative
2414 Acquisitions/divestitures
(c)Ñ183Market/performance/other impacts
(d)2438Ending balance,December 31$847
$791
Assets under supervision rollforward
(b)Beginning balance,January 1
$1,106
$764
Net asset flows4942Acquisitions/divestitures
(e)(33)221Market/performance/other impacts
(d)2779Ending balance,December 31$1,149
$1,106
(a)Excludes Assets under management of American Century.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(c)Reflects the Merger with Bank One ($176 billion) and the acquisition of a majority interest
in Highbridge Capital Management ($7 billion) in 2004.(d)Includes AWMÕs strategic decision to exit the Institutional fiduciary business ($12 billion) 
in 2005.
(e)Reflects the Merger with Bank One ($214 billion) and the acquisition of a majority interest
in Highbridge Capital Management ($7 billion) in 2004,and the sale of BrownCo ($33 bil-

lion) in 2005.AWMÕs client segments are comprised of the following:
Institutionalserves large and mid-size corporate and public institutions,
endowments and foundations,and governments globally.AWM offers

these institutions comprehensive global investment services,including

investment management across asset classes,pension analytics,asset-

liability management,active risk budgeting and overlay strategies.
The 
Private Bankaddresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide,including invest-

ment management,capital markets and risk management,tax and estate

planning,banking,capital raising and specialty wealth advisory services.
Retailprovides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning and administration through third-party and direct 

distribution channels.
Private Client Servicesoffers high-net-worth individuals,families and busi-
ness owners comprehensive wealth management solutions that include finan-
cial planning,personal trust,investment and banking products and services.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
53Corporate
The Corporate sector is comprised of Private Equity,Treasury,
corporate staff units and expenses that are centrally managed.

Private Equity includes the JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity

Partners businesses.Treasury manages the structural interest

rate risk and investment portfolio for the Firm.The corporate

staff units include Central Technology and Operations,Audit,

Executive Office,Finance,Human Resources,Marketing &

Communications,Office of the General Counsel,Corporate Real

Estate and General Services,Risk Management,and Strategy

and Development.Other centrally managed expenses include

the FirmÕs occupancy and pension-related expenses,net of 

allocations to the business.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)20052004(d)2003(d)RevenueSecurities/private equity gains 
$200
$1,786$1,031
Other income(b)1,410315303
Noninterest revenue1,610
2,1011,334
Net interest income(2,736)
(1,216)(133)
Total net revenue(1,126)
8851,201
Provision for credit losses(c)10(110)124
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense3,1512,4261,893
Noncompensation expense4,2164,0883,216
Subtotal7,3676,5145,109
Net expenses allocated to other businesses(5,343)(5,213)(4,580)
Total noninterest expense2,024
1,301529
Operating earnings before income 
tax expense(3,160)
(306)548
Income tax expense (benefit)(1,429)(367)(120)
Operating earnings (loss)$(1,731)
$61$668
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes $1.3 billion (pre-tax) gain on the sale of BrownCo in 2005.

(c)2005 includes a $12 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.

(d)In 2005,the Corporate sectorÕs and the FirmÕs operating results were presented on a tax-
equivalent basis.Prior period results have been restated.This restatement had no impact on

the Corporate sectorÕs or the FirmÕs operating earnings.
2005 compared with 2004 
Operating loss of $1.7 billion declined from earnings of $61 million in the

prior year.
Net revenue was a loss of $1.1 billion compared with revenue of $885 million
in the prior year.Noninterest revenue of $1.6 billion decreased by $491 million

and included securities losses of $1.5 billion due to the repositioning of the
Treasury investment portfolio,to manage exposure to interest rates,the gain

on the sale of BrownCo of $1.3 billion and the increase in private equity

gains of $262 million.For a further discussion on the sale of BrownCo,see

Note 2 on page 93 of this Annual Report.
Net interest income was a loss of $2.7 billion compared with a loss of 
$1.2 billion in the prior year.Actions and policies adopted in conjunction 

with the Merger and the repositioning of the Treasury investment portfolio

were the main drivers of the increased loss.
Noninterest expense was $2.0 billion,up $723 million,or 56%,from the prior

year,primarily due to the Merger and the cost of the accelerated vesting of

certain employee stock options.These increases were offset partially by merger-

related savings and other expense efficiencies.
On September 15,2004,JPMorgan Chase and IBM announced the FirmÕs plans
to reintegrate the portions of its technology infrastructure Ð including data

centers,help desks,distributed computing,data networks and voice networks

Ð that were previously outsourced to IBM.In January 2005,approximately

3,100 employees and 800 contract employees were transferred to the Firm.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $61 million,down from earnings of $668 million in

the prior year.
Noninterest revenue was $2.1 billion,up 57% from the prior year.The primary
component of noninterest revenue is Securities/private equity gains,which

totaled $1.8 billion,up 73% from the prior year.The increase was a result of

net gains in the Private Equity portfolio of $1.4 billion in 2004 compared with

$27 million in net gains in 2003.Partially offsetting these gains were lower

investment securities gains in Treasury.
Net interest income was a loss of $1.2 billion compared with a loss of 
$133 million in the prior year.The increased loss was driven primarily by

actions and policies adopted in conjunction with the Merger.
Noninterest expense of $1.3 billion was up $772 million from the prior 
year due to the Merger.The Merger resulted in higher gross compensation

and noncompensation expenses.Allocations of compensation and noncom-

pensation expenses to the businesses were lower than the gross expense
increase due to certain policies adopted in conjunction with the Merger,

which retain in Corporate overhead costs that would not be incurred by the

lines of business if operated on a stand-alone basis,and costs in excess of

the market price for services provided by the corporate staff and technology

and operations areas.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount)
200520042003
Selected average balances
Short-term investments(b)$16,808
$14,590$4,076
Investment portfolio(c)54,48165,98565,113
Goodwill(d)43,47521,773293
Total assets 
160,720162,234104,395
Headcount28,384
24,80613,391
Treasury
Securities gains (losses)$(1,502)
$347$999
Investment portfolio (average)
46,52057,77656,299
Investment portfolio (ending)30,74164,94945,811
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)  Represents Federal funds sold,Securities borrowed,Trading assets Ð debt and equity instru-
ments and Trading assets Ð derivative receivables.
(c)Represents Investment securities and private equity investments.

(d)  As of July 1,2004,the Firm revised the goodwill allocation methodology to retain all good-
will in Corporate.Effective with the first quarter of 2006,the Firm will refine its methodolo-

gy to allocate goodwill to the lines of business.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
54JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Selected income statement and balance sheet data Ð Private equityYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Private equity gains (losses)Direct investmentsRealized gains$1,969
$1,423$535
Write-ups / (write-downs)(72)(192)(404)
Mark-to-market gains (losses)
(338)164215
Total direct investments
1,5591,395346
Third-party fund investments 
13234(319)
Total private equity gains (losses)1,691
1,42927
Other income405347
Net interest income(209)(271)(264)
Total net revenue
1,5221,211(190)
Total noninterest expense
244288268
Operating earnings (loss) before income 
tax expense1,278923(458)
Income tax expense 457321(168)
Operating earnings (loss)$821
$602$(290)
Private equity portfolio information(b)Direct investments
Public securities
Carrying value
$479
$1,170$643
Cost403744451
Quoted public value
6831,758994
Private direct securities
Carrying value
5,0285,6865,508
Cost6,4637,1786,960
Third-party fund investments
Carrying value
6696411,099
Cost1,0031,0421,736
Total private equity portfolio
Carrying value
$6,176
$7,497$7,250
Cost$7,869
$8,964$9,147
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)For further information on the FirmÕs policies regarding the valuation of the private equity
portfolio,see Note 9 on pages 103Ð105 of this Annual Report.
Private equity2005 compared with 2004
Private EquityÕs operating earnings for the year were $821 million compared

with $602 million in the prior year.This improvement in earnings reflected an

increase of $262 million in private equity gains to $1.7 billion,a 15% reduction

in noninterest expenses and a $62 million decline in net funding costs of 
carrying portfolio investments.Private equity gains benefited from continued

favorable markets for investment sales and recapitalizations,resulting in nearly

$2 billion of realized gains.The carrying value of the private equity portfolio

declined by $1.3 billion to $6.2 billion as of December 31,2005.This decline

was primarily the result of sales and recapitalizations of direct investments.
2004 compared with 2003
Private EquityÕs operating earnings for the year totaled $602 million compared

with a loss of $290 million in 2003.This improvement reflected a $1.4 billion

increase in total private equity gains.In 2004,markets improved for investment

sales,resulting in $1.4 billion of realized gains on direct investments,compared

with realized gains of $535 million in 2003.Net write-downs on direct 

investments were $192 million in 2004 compared with net write-downs of
$404 million in 2003,as valuations continued to stabilize amid positive 

market conditions.
The carrying value of the Private Equity portfolio at December 31,2004,
was $7.5 billion,an increase of $247 million from December 31,2003.The

increase was primarily the result of the acquisition of ONE Equity Partners as

a result of the Merger.Excluding ONE Equity Partners,the portfolio declined

as a result of sales of investments,which was consistent with managementÕs

intention to reduce over time the capital committed to private equity.Sales 

of third-party fund investments resulted in a decrease in carrying value 

of $458 million,to $641 million at December 31,2004,compared with 

$1.1 billion at December 31,2003.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
55Balance sheet analysisSelected balance sheet dataDecember 31,(in millions)
20052004AssetsCash and due from banks$36,670
$35,168
Deposits with banks and Federal funds sold
26,07228,958Securities purchased under resale agreementsand Securities borrowed204,174141,504Trading assets Ð debt and equity instruments
248,590222,832Trading assets Ð derivative receivables
49,78765,982Securities:Available-for-sale
47,52394,402Held-to-maturity77110Loans,net of allowance for loan losses
412,058394,794Other receivables  
27,64331,086Goodwill and other intangible assets58,18057,887All other assets 88,16884,525Total assets
$1,198,942
$1,157,248
LiabilitiesDeposits$554,991
$521,456
Securities sold under repurchase agreements
and securities lent
117,124112,347Trading liabilities Ð debt and equity instruments
94,15787,942Trading liabilities Ð derivative payables
51,77363,265Long-term debt and capital debt securities119,886105,718All other liabilities153,800160,867Total liabilities
1,091,7311,051,595StockholdersÕ equity
107,211105,653Total liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
$1,198,942
$1,157,248
Securities purchased under resale agreements and Securities sold
under repurchase agreements

The increase in Securities purchased under resale agreements was due primarily

to growth in client-driven financing activities in North America and Europe.
Trading assets and liabilities Ð debt and equity instruments
The FirmÕs debt and equity trading instruments consist primarily of fixed income

securities (including government and corporate debt) and equity and convertible

cash instruments used for both market-making and proprietary risk-taking activities.

The increase over December 31,2004,was primarily due to growth in client-

driven market-making activities across interest rate,credit and equity markets.

For additional information,refer to Note 3 on page 94 of this Annual Report.
Trading assets and liabilities Ð derivative receivables and payables
The Firm uses various interest rate,foreign exchange,equity,credit and 

commodity derivatives for market-making,proprietary risk-taking and risk

management purposes.The decline from December 31,2004,was primarily

due to the appreciation of the U.S.dollar and,to a lesser extent,higher interest

rates,partially offset by increased commodity trading activity and rising 

commodity prices.For additional information,refer to Credit risk management

and Note 3 on pages 63Ð74and 94,respectively,of this Annual Report.
SecuritiesThe AFS portfolio declined by $46.9 billion from December 31,2004,primarily

due to securities sales (as a result of managementÕs decision to reposition

the Treasury investment portfolio to manage exposure to interest rates) and

maturities,which more than offset purchases.For additional information

related to securities,refer to the Corporate segment discussion and to Note

9 on pages 53Ð54and 103Ð105,respectively,of this Annual Report.
LoansThe $17 billion increase in gross loans was due primarily to an increase of 

$15 billion in the wholesale portfolio,primarily from the IB,reflecting higher

balances of loans held-for-sale (ÒHFSÓ) related to securitization and syndication

activities,and growth in the IB Credit Portfolio.Wholesale HFS loans were $18

billion as of December 31,2005,compared with $6 billion as of December 31,

2004.For consumer loans,growth in consumer real estate (primarily home

equity loans) and credit card loans was offset largely by a decline in the auto

portfolio.The increase in credit card loans primarily reflectedgrowth from new

account originations and the acquisition of $1.5 billion of Sears Canada loans
on the balance sheet.The decline in the auto portfolio primarily reflected a 

difficult auto lending market in 2005,$3.8 billion of securitizations and was

also the result of a strategic review of the portfolio in 2004 that led to the

decisions to de-emphasize vehicle leasing and sell a $2 billion recreational
vehicle portfolio.For a more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the

Allowance for loan losses,refer to Credit risk management on pages 63Ð74

of this Annual Report.
Goodwill and Other intangible assetsThe $293 million increase in Goodwill and Other intangible assets primarily

resulted from higher MSRs due to growth in the servicing portfolio as well 
as an overall increase in the valuation from improved market conditions;the 

business partnership with Cazenove;the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit

card business;and the Neovest and Vastera acquisitions.Partially offsetting the

increase were declines from the amortization of purchased credit card relation-
ships and core deposit intangibles and the deconsolidation of Paymentech.For

additional information,see Note 15 on pages 114Ð116of this Annual Report.
DepositsDeposits increased by 6% from December 31,2004.Retail deposits increased,

reflecting growth from new account acquisitions and the ongoing expansion
of the retail branch distribution network.Wholesale deposits were higher,

driven by growth in business volumes.For more information on deposits,refer

to the RFS segment discussion and the Liquidity risk management discussion
on pages 39Ð44 and 61Ð62,respectively,of this Annual Report.For more

information on liability balances,refer to the CB and TSS segment discussions

on pages 47Ð48 and 49Ð50,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Long-term debt and capital debt securities
Long-term debt and capital debt securities increased by $14.2 billion,or 13%,

from December 31,2004,primarily due to net new issuances of long-term debt and

capital debt securities.The Firm took advantage of narrow credit spreads globallyto

issue opportunistically long-term debt and capital debt securities throughout 2005.
Consistent with its liquidity management policy,the Firm raised funds sufficient to

cover maturing obligations over the next 12 months and to support the less liquid
assets on its balance sheet.Large investor cash positions and increased foreign

investor participation in the corporate markets allowed JPMorgan Chase to diversify

further its funding across the global markets while lengthening maturities.For 

additional information on the FirmÕs long-term debt activity,see the Liquidity risk

management discussion on pages 61Ð62of this Annual Report.
StockholdersÕ equity
Total stockholdersÕ equity increased by $1.6 billion from year-end 2004 to 

$107.2 billion at December 31,2005.The increase was the result of net income

for 2005 and common stock issued under employee plans,partially offset by

cash dividends,stock repurchases,the redemption of $200 million of preferred

stock and net unrealized losses inAccumulated other comprehensive income.For

a further discussion of capital,see the Capital management section that follows.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
56JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Capital management The FirmÕs capital management framework is intended to ensure that there is
capital sufficient to support the underlying risks of the FirmÕs business activities,

as measured by economic risk capital,and to maintain Òwell-capitalizedÓ

status under regulatory requirements.In addition,the Firm holds capital above

these requirements in amounts deemed appropriate to achieve managementÕs

regulatory and debt rating objectives.The FirmÕs capital framework is integrated

into the process of assigning equity to the lines of business.
Line of business equityThe FirmÕs framework for allocating capital is based upon the following objectives:
¥  Integrate firmwide capital management activities with capital management
activities within each of the lines of business.
¥  Measure performance consistently across all lines of business.

¥  Provide comparability with peer firms for each of the lines of business.
Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes the busi-ness would require if it were operating independently,incorporating sufficient

capital to address economic risk measures,regulatory capital requirements,

and capital levels for similarly rated peers.Return on equity is measured and

internal targets for expected returns are established as a key measure of a

business segmentÕs performance.
For performance management purposes,the Firm initiated a methodology at
the time of the Merger for allocating goodwill.Under this methodology,in the

last half of 2004 and all of 2005,goodwill from the Merger and from any

business acquisition by either heritage firm prior to the Merger was allocated

to Corporate,as was any associated equity.Therefore,2005 line of business

equity is not comparable to equity assigned to the lines of business in prior

years.The increase in average common equity in the following table for 2005

was attributable primarily to the Merger.
(in billions)Yearly Average
Line of business equity2005
2004(a)Investment Bank$20.0
$17.3
Retail Financial Services13.49.1Card Services11.87.6Commercial Banking3.42.1Treasury & Securities Services
1.92.5Asset & Wealth Management
2.43.9Corporate
(b)52.633.1Total common stockholdersÕ equity$105.5
$75.6
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)2005 includes $43.5 billion of equity to offset goodwill and $9.1 billion of equity,primarily
related to Treasury,Private Equity and the Corporate Pension Plan.
Effective January 1,2006,the Firm expects to refine its methodology for 
allocating capital to the lines of business,and may continue to refine this

methodology.The 
revised methodology,among other things,considers for each
line of business
goodwill associated with such line of businessÕ acquisitionssince the Merger.As a result of this refinement,Retail Financial Services,Card

Services,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset &

Wealth Management will have higher amounts of capital allocated in 2006,

while the amount of capital allocated to the Investment Bank will remain
unchanged.In managementÕs view,the revised methodology assigns responsi-

bility to the lines of business to generate returns on the amount of capital

supporting acquisition-related goodwill.As part of this refinement in the capital

allocation methodology,the Firm will assign to the Corporate segment an
amount of equity capital equal to the then-current book value of goodwill from
and prior to the Merger.In accordance with SFAS 142,the lines of business will

continue to perform the required goodwill impairment testing.For a further 

discussion of goodwill and impairment testing,see Critical accounting estimates

and Note 15 on pages 81Ð83 and 114Ð116,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Economic risk capitalJPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the underlying risks
of the FirmÕs business activities,utilizing internal risk-assessment methodologies.

The Firm assigns economic capital based primarily upon five risk factors:credit

risk,market risk,operational risk and business risk for each business;and 

private equity risk,principally for the FirmÕs private equity business.
(in billions)Yearly Average
Economic risk capital2005
2004(a)Credit risk$22.6
$16.5
Market risk
9.87.5Operational risk
5.54.5Business risk2.11.9Private equity risk
3.84.5Economic risk capital43.8
34.9Goodwill43.525.9Other(b)18.214.8Total common stockholdersÕ equity
$105.5
$75.6
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)Additional capital required to meet internal debt and regulatory rating objectives.
Credit risk capital
Credit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses

(Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and

Asset & Wealth Management) and consumer businesses (Retail Financial

Services and Card Services).
Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined in terms
of unexpected credit losses,both from defaults and declines in market value

due to credit deterioration,measured over a one-year period at a confidence

level consistent with the level of capitalization necessary to achieve a targeted
ÔAAÕ solvency standard.Unexpected losses are in excess of those for which

provisions for credit losses are maintained.In addition to maturity and corre-

lations,capital allocation is differentiated by several principal drivers of credit

risk:exposure at default (or loan equivalent amount),likelihood of default,

loss severity,and market credit spread.
¥  Loan equivalent amount for counterparty exposures in an over-the-counter
derivative transaction is represented by the expected positive exposure based

upon potential movements of underlying market rates.Loan equivalents 

for unused revolving credit facilities represent the portion of an unused
commitment likely,based upon the FirmÕs average portfolio historical 

experience,to become outstanding in the event an obligor defaults.
¥  Default likelihood is based upon current market conditions for all publicly
traded names and investment banking clients,by referencing the growing

market in credit derivatives and secondary market loan sales.This method-

ology produces,in the FirmÕs view,more active risk management by utilizing

a forward-looking measure of credit risk.This dynamic measure captures

current market conditions and will change with the credit cycle over time

impacting the level of credit risk capital.For privately-held firms in the

commercial banking portfolio,default likelihood is based upon longer term

averages over an entire credit cycle.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
57¥  Loss severity of exposure is based upon the FirmÕs average historical 
experience during workouts,with adjustments to account for collateral 

or subordination.¥  Market credit spreads are used in the evaluation of changes in exposure
value due to credit deterioration.
Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is intended to represent a capitallevel sufficient to support an ÔAAÕ rating,and its allocation is based upon product

and other relevant risk segmentation.Actual segment level default and severity

experience are used to estimate unexpected losses for a one-year horizon at a
confidence level equivalent to the ÔAAÕ solvency standard.Statistical results for cer-

tain segments or portfolios are adjusted upward to ensure that capital is consistent

with external benchmarks,including subordination levels on market transactions

and capital held at representative monoline competitors,where appropriate.
Market risk capital
The Firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that capital

should reflect the risk of loss in the value of portfolios and financial instruments

caused by adverse movements in market variables,such as interest and foreign

exchange rates,credit spreads,securities prices and commodities prices.Daily

VAR,monthly stress-test results and other factors are used to determine

appropriate capital levels.The Firm allocates market risk capital to each 

business segment according to a formula that weights that segmentÕs VAR

and stress test exposures.See Market risk management on pages 75Ð78of

this Annual Report for more information about these market risk measures.
Operational risk capital
Capital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using a risk-based

capital allocation methodology which estimates operational risk on a bottom-up

basis.The operational risk capital model is based upon actual losses and potential

scenario-based stress losses,with adjustments to the capital calculation to reflect

changes in the quality of the control environment or the potential offset as a
result of the use of risk-transfer products.The Firm believes the model is consistent

with the new Basel II Framework and expects to propose it eventually for 

qualification under the advanced measurement approach for operational risk.
Business risk capital Business risk is defined as the risk associated with volatility in the FirmÕs 

earnings due to factors not captured by other parts of its economic-capital
framework.Such volatility can arise from ineffective design or execution of

business strategies,volatile economic or financial market activity,changing

client expectations and demands,and restructuring to adjust for changes in the

competitive environment.For business risk,capital is allocated to each business

based upon historical revenue volatility and measures of fixed and variable

expenses.Earnings volatility arising from other risk factors,such as credit,

market,or operational risk,is excluded from the measurement of business risk

capital,as those factors are captured under their respective risk capital models.
Private equity risk capital
Capital is allocated to privately- and publicly-held securities,third-party 

fund investments and commitments in the Private Equity portfolio to cover

the potential loss associated with a decline in equity markets and related

asset devaluations.
Regulatory capital The FirmÕs federal banking regulator,the Federal Reserve Board (ÒFRBÓ),

establishes capital requirements,including well-capitalized standards for the

consolidated financial holding company.The Office of the Comptroller of the

Currency (ÒOCCÓ) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for
the FirmÕs national banks,including JPMorgan Chase Bank and Chase Bank

USA,National Association.
The federal banking regulatory agencies issued a final rule that makes perma-
nent an interim rule issued in 2000 that provides regulatory capital relief for
certain cash-collateralized securities borrowed transactions,effective February

22,2006.The final rule also broadens the types of transactions qualifying for

regulatory capital relief under the interim rule.Adoption of the rule is not

expected to have a material effect on the FirmÕs capital ratios.
On March 1,2005,the FRB issued a final rule,which became effective April 11,
2005,that continues the inclusion of trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital,

subject to stricter quantitative limits and revised qualitative standards,and

broadens the definition of restricted core capital elements.The rule provides

for a five-year transition period.As an internationally active bank holding

company,JPMorgan Chase is subject to the ruleÕs limitation on restricted 

core capital elements,including trust preferred securities,to 15% of total core

capital elements,net of goodwill less any associated deferred tax liability.

At December 31,2005,JPMorgan ChaseÕs restricted core capital elements

were 16.5% of total core capital elements.JPMorgan Chase expects to be in

compliance with the 15% limit by the March 31,2009,implementation date.
On July 20,2004,the federal banking regulatory agencies issued a final rule that
excludes assets of asset-backed commercial paper programs that are consolidated

as a result of FIN 46R from risk-weighted assets for purposes of computing
Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios.The final rule also requires that capital

be held against short-term liquidity facilities supporting asset-backed commercial

paper programs.The final rule became effective September 30,2004.In addition,

both short- and long-termliquidity facilities are subject to certain asset quality

tests effective September 30,2005.Adoption of the rule did not have a

material effect on the capital ratios of the Firm.
The following tables show that JPMorgan Chase maintained a well-capitalized
position based upon Tier1and Total capital ratios at December 31,2005 and 2004.
Capital ratios
Well-capitalized
December 31,20052004ratios
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.5%8.7%6.0%
Total capital ratio
12.012.210.0
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.36.2NA
Total stockholdersÕ equity to assets
8.99.1NA
Risk-based capital components and assetsDecember 31,(in millions)
20052004Total Tier 1 capital
$72,474
$68,621
Total Tier 2 capital
29,96328,186Total capital
$102,437
$96,807
Risk-weighted assets$850,643
$791,373
Total adjusted average assets
1,152,5461,102,456Tier 1 capital was $72.5 billion at December 31,2005,compared with 
$68.6 billion at December 31,2004,an increase of $3.9 billion.The increase

was due primarily to net income of $8.5 billion,net common stock issued under

employee plans of $1.9 billion,$1.3 billion of additional qualifying trust preferred

securities and a decline of $716 million in the deduction for nonqualifying
intangible assets as a result of amortization.Offsetting these increases were

dividends declared of $4.8 billion,common share repurchases of $3.4 billion,

an increase in the deduction for goodwill of $418 million and the redemption
of $200 million of preferred stock.Additional information regarding the FirmÕs

capital ratios and the federal regulatory capital standards to which it is subject

is presented in Note 24 on pages 121Ð122of this Annual Report.
Basel IIThe Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published the new Basel II

Framework in 2004 in an effort to update the original international bank capital
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
58JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
accord (ÒBasel IÓ),in effect since 1988.The goal of the Basel II Frameworkis
to improve the consistency of capital requirements internationally,make 

regulatory capital more risk-sensitive,and promote enhanced risk management

practices among large,internationally active banking organizations.JPMorgan

Chase supports the overall objectives of the Basel II Framework.
U.S.banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II
Framework into the existing risk-based capital requirements.JPMorgan Chase

will be required to implement advanced measurement techniques in the U.S.

by employing internal estimates of certain key risk drivers to derive capital

requirements.Prior to implementation of the new Basel II Framework,JPMorgan

Chase will be required to demonstrate to its U.S.bank supervisors that its internal

criteria meet the relevant supervisory standards.JPMorgan Chase expectsto be

in compliance within the established timelines with all relevant Basel II rules.
DividendsThe FirmÕs common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan ChaseÕs earnings

outlook,desired payout ratios,need to maintain an adequate capital level and

alternative investment opportunities.In 2005,JPMorgan Chase declared a quar-

terly cash dividend on its common stock of $0.34 per share.The Firm continues

to target a dividend payout ratio of 30-40% of operating earnings over time.
Stock repurchases
On July 20,2004,the Board of Directors approved an initial stock repurchase

program in the aggregate amount of $6.0 billion.This amount includes shares
to be repurchased to offset issuances under the FirmÕs employee stock-based
plans.The actual amount of shares repurchased is subject to various factors,

including market conditions;legal considerations affecting the amount and

timing of repurchase activity;the FirmÕs capital position (taking into account

goodwill and intangibles);internal capital generation;and alternative potential

investment opportunities.Under the stock repurchase program,during 2005,

the Firm repurchased 93.5 million shares for $3.4 billion at an average price

per share of $36.46.During 2004,the Firm repurchased 19.3 million shares

for $738 million at an average price per share of $38.27.As of December 31,

2005,$1.9 billion of authorized repurchase capacity remained.
The Firm has determined that it may,from time to time,enter into written trading
plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate

the repurchase of common stock in accordance with the repurchase program.

A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan would allow the Firm to repurchase shares
during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common stock Ð
for example,during internal trading Òblack-out periods.ÓAll purchases under a

Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan that is estab-
lished when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic information.
For additional information regarding repurchases of the FirmÕs equity securi-
ties,see Part II,Item 5,Market for registrantÕs common equity,related stock-

holder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities,on page 11 of

JPMorgan ChaseÕs 2005 Form 10ÐK.
OffÐbalance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations
Special-purpose entitiesJPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of off-balance sheet arrange-

ments,including special purpose entities (ÒSPEsÓ),lines of credit and loan

commitments.The principal uses of SPEs are to obtain sources of liquidity for

JPMorgan Chase and its clients by securitizing financial assets,and to create

other investment products for clients.These arrangements are an important

part of the financial markets,providing market liquidity by facilitating

investorsÕ access to specific portfolios of assets and risks.For example,SPEs

are integral to the markets for mortgage-backed securities,commercial paper,

and other asset-backed securities.
The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE.The SPE
funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors.To insulate

investors from creditors of other entities,including the seller of assets,SPEs

can be structured to be bankruptcy-remote.
JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories:loan securitiza-
tions,multi-seller conduits and client intermediation.Capital is held,as deemed

appropriate,against all SPE-related transactions and related exposures,such as

derivative transactions and lending-related commitments.For a further discussion

of SPEs and the FirmÕs accounting for them,see Note 1 on page 91,Note 13

on pages 108Ð111and Note 14 on pages 111Ð113of this Annual Report.
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE
transaction,and its policies require that transactions with SPEs be conducted

at armÕs length and reflect market pricing.Consistent with this policy,no

JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with which the Firm
is involved where such investment would violate the FirmÕs Code of Conduct.

These rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and prohibit employees from

acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with which they or their family

have any significant financial interest.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs,the Firm could be required to provide
funding if the credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded below

specific levels,primarily P-1,A-1 and F1 for MoodyÕs,Standard & PoorÕs and

Fitch,respectively.The amount of these liquidity commitments was $71.3 

billion and $79.4 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.

Alternatively,if JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded,the Firm could be

replaced by another liquidity provider in lieu of providing funding under the
liquidity commitment,or,in certain circumstances,could facilitate the sale or

refinancing of the assets in the SPE in order to provide liquidity.
Of its $71.3 billion in liquidity commitments to SPEs at December 31,2005,
$38.9 billion was included in the FirmÕs other unfunded commitments to

extend credit and asset purchase agreements,included in the following table.

Of the $79.4 billion of liquidity commitments to SPEs at December 31,2004,

$47.7 billion was included in the FirmÕs other unfunded commitments to

extend credit and asset purchase agreements.As a result of the FirmÕs consol-

idation of multi-seller conduits in accordance with FIN 46R,$32.4 billion of

these commitments,compared with $31.7 billion at December 31,2004,are

excluded from the following table,as the underlying assets of the SPEs have

been included on the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets.
The Firm also has exposure to certain SPEs arising from derivative transactions;
these transactions are recorded at fair value on the FirmÕs Consolidated balance

sheets with changes in fair value (i.e.,MTM gains and losses) recorded in

Trading revenue.Such MTM gains and losses are not included in the revenue

amounts reported in the table below.
The following table summarizes certain revenue information related to 
variable interest entities (ÒVIEsÓ) with which the Firm has significant 

involvement,and qualifying SPEs (ÒQSPEsÓ).The revenue reported in the

table below primarily represents servicing and custodial fee income.For a 

further discussion of VIEs and QSPEs,see Note 1,Note 13 and Note 14,

on pages 91,108Ð111and 111Ð113,respectively,of this Annual Report.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
59Revenue from VIEs and QSPEs
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)VIEs
(b)QSPEsTotal
2005$ 222$ 1,645$ 1,867
20041541,4381,592
2003799791,058
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes VIE-related revenue (i.e.,revenue associated with consolidated and significant 
nonconsolidated VIEs).Off-balance sheet lending-related financial
instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g.,commitments
and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers.The contractual

amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit

risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment or the Firm fulfill its

obligation under the guarantee,and the counterparty subsequently fails to

perform according to the terms of the contract.Most of these commitments

and guarantees expire without a default occurring or without being drawn.

As a result,the total contractual amount of these instruments is not,in the

FirmÕs view,representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding

requirements.Further,certain commitments,primarily related to consumer

financings,are cancelable,upon notice,at the option of the Firm.For a further
discussion of lending-related commitments and guarantees and the FirmÕs
accounting for them,see Credit risk management on pages 63Ð72and Note

27 on pages 124Ð125of this Annual Report.
Contractual cash obligations
In the normal course of business,the Firm enters into various contractual 

obligations that may require future cash payments.Commitments for future cash

expenditures primarily include contracts to purchase future services and capital

expenditures related to real estateÐrelated obligations and equipment.The accompanying table summarizes,by remaining maturity,JPMorgan ChaseÕs
offÐbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and significant 
contractual cash obligations at December 31,2005.Contractual purchases

and capital expenditures in the table below reflect the minimum contractual

obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are

both fixed and determinable.Excluded from the following table are a number of

obligations to be settled in cash,primarily in under one year.These obligations

are reflected on the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets and include Federal

funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements;Other 

borrowed funds;purchases of Debt and equity instruments;Derivative payables;

and certain purchases of instruments that resulted in settlement failures.For a

discussion regarding Long-term debt and trust preferred capital securities,see

Note 17 on pages 117Ð118of this Annual Report.For a discussion regarding

operating leases,see Note 25 on page 122 of this Annual Report.
OffÐbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
2005By remaining maturity at December 31,Under1Ð33Ð5Over2004
(in millions)1 yearyearsyears5 yearsTotal Total
Lending-related
Consumer$597,047$4,177$3,971$50,401$655,596
$601,196
Wholesale:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(a)(b)78,91247,93064,24417,383208,469
185,822Asset purchase agreements(c)9,50117,7852,94786231,095
39,330Standby letters of credit and guarantees
(a)(d)24,83619,58827,9354,84077,199
78,084Other letters of credit(a)6,128586247407,001
6,163Total wholesale
119,37785,88995,37323,125323,764
309,399Total lending-related 
$716,424$90,066$99,344$73,526$979,360
$910,595
Other guarantees
Securities lending guarantees
(e)$244,316$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$244,316
$220,783
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
(f)25,15814,1532,26420,18461,759
53,312Contractual cash obligations
By remaining maturity at December 31,(in millions)
Time deposits of $100,000 and over
$111,359$2,917$805$692$115,773
$115,343
Long-term debt16,32341,13719,10731,790108,357
95,422Trust preferred capital debt securities
ÑÑÑ11,52911,529
10,296FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests(g)10680242,1442,354
6,393Operating leases
(h)9931,8491,5585,3349,734
9,853Contractual purchases and capital expenditures
1,1457772551472,324
2,742Obligations under affinity and co-brand programs
1,1642,0321,8911,7906,877
4,402Other liabilities(i)7621,6361,1728,07611,646
10,966Total $131,852$50,428$24,812$61,502$
268,594$255,417
(a)Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $29.3 billion and $26.4 billion at December 31,2005 and 20
04,respectively.
(b)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $28.3 billion and $22.8 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively,w
hich are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with the FRB,
unused advised lines are not reportable.
(c)The maturity is based upon the weighted average life of the underlying assets in the SPE,primarily multi-seller asset-backed
 commercial paper conduits.
(d)Includes unused commitments to issue standby letters of credit of $37.5 billion and $38.4 billion at December 31,2005 and 20
04,respectively.
(e) Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $245.0 billion and $221.6 billi
on at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(f)Represents notional amounts of derivative guarantees.For a further discussion of guarantees,see Note 27 on pages 124Ð125 of 
this Annual Report.
(g)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs.

(h)Excludes benefit of noncancelable sublease rentals of $1.3 billion and $689 million at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectivel
y.(i)Includes deferred annuity contracts and expected funding for pension and other postretirement benefits for 2006.Funding requ
irements for pension and postretirement benefits after 2006 areexcluded due to the significant variability in the assumptions required to project the timing of future cash payments.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
60JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Risk managementRisk is an inherent part of JPMorgan ChaseÕs business activities.The FirmÕs
risk management framework and governance structure is intended to provide

comprehensive controls and ongoing management of the major risks inherent
in its business activities.
The FirmÕs ability to properly identify,measure,monitor and report risk is 
critical to both soundness and profitability.
¥  Risk identification:The Firm identifies risk by dynamically assessing 
the potential impact of internal and external factors on transactions and

positions.Business and risk professionals develop appropriate mitigation

strategies for the identified risks.
¥  Risk measurement
:The Firm measures risk using a variety of methodologies,
including calculating probable loss,unexpected loss and value-at-risk,and

by conducting stress tests and making comparisons to external bench-
marks.Measurement models and related assumptions are routinely

reviewed with the goal of ensuring that the FirmÕs risk estimates are 

reasonable and reflective of underlying positions.
¥  Risk monitoring/Control:
The Firm establishes risk management policies
and procedures.These policies contain approved limits by customer,product

and business that are monitored on a daily,weekly and monthly basis as

appropriate.
¥  Risk reporting:
Risk reporting covers all lines of business and is providedto management on a daily,weekly and monthly basis as appropriate.
Risk governanceThe FirmÕs risk governance structure is built upon the premise that each line

of business is responsible for managing the risks inherent in its business
activity.There are eight major risk types identified in the business activities 
of the Firm:liquidity risk,credit risk,market risk,interest rate risk,operational
risk,legal and reputation risk,fiduciary risk and private equity risk.As part of

the risk management structure,each line of business has a Risk Committee

responsible for decisions relating to risk strategy,policies and control.Where

appropriate,the Risk Committees escalate risk issues to the FirmÕs Operating

Committee,comprised of senior officers of the Firm,or to the Risk Working

Group,a subgroup of the Operating Committee.
Overlaying risk management within the lines of business are three corporate
functions:Treasury,Risk Management and Office of the General Counsel.

Treasury is responsible for measuring,monitoring,reporting and managing

the interest rate and liquidity risk profile of the Firm.Risk Management,under

the direction of the Chief Risk Officer reporting to the Chief Executive Officer,

provides an independent firmwide function of control and management of risk.
Within Risk Management are those units responsible for credit risk,market risk,

operational risk,private equity risk and risk technology and operations,as well

as Risk Management Services,which is responsible for risk policy and

methodology,risk reporting and risk education.The Office of the 
General
Counsel has oversight function for legal,reputation and fiduciary risk.
In addition to the six lines of business risk committees and these corporate
functions,the Firm maintains an Asset & Liability Committee (ÒALCOÓ),which

oversees interest rate and liquidity risk,and capital management,as well as

the FirmÕs funds transfer pricing policy,through which lines of business transfer

interest rate risk to Treasury.Treasury has responsibility for ALCO policies and

control and transfers aggregate risk positions to the Chief Investment Office,

which has responsibility for managing the risk.There is also an Investment

Committee,which reviews key aspects of the FirmÕs global M&A activities that

are undertaken for its own investment account and that fall outside the scope

of the FirmÕs private equity and other principal finance activities.
Investment CommitteeOperating Committee
ALCOCommercialBankingRisk CommitteeInvestment Bank Risk Committee Retail FinancialServices Risk &Credit Policy
CommitteeCard ServicesRisk CommitteeTreasury & 
Securities ServicesRisk CommitteeAsset & Wealth
ManagementRisk CommitteeTreasury (Liquidity Risk and Interest Rate Risk)  
Risk Management (Credit Risk,Market Risk,Operational Risk,Private Equity Risk,Risk Technology & Operations,
Risk Management Services)Office of the General Counsel (Legal and Reputation Risk,and Fiduciary Risk)
The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of risk management as a 
whole and through the BoardÕs Risk Policy Committee and Audit Committee.
The Risk Policy Committee is responsible for oversight of managementÕs
responsibilities to assess and manage the FirmÕs risks as described above.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
61Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of the FirmÕs activities and
in the management of its assets and liabilities.JPMorgan ChaseÕs liquidity

management framework is intended to maximize liquidity access and minimize

funding costs.Through active liquidity management,the Firm seeks to preserve

stable,reliable and cost-effective sources of funding.This enables the Firm to

replace maturing obligations when due and fund assets at appropriate matu-
rities and rates.To accomplish this task,management uses a variety of liquidity

risk measures that take into consideration market conditions,prevailing interest

rates,liquidity needs and the desired maturity profile of liabilities.
GovernanceThe Asset & Liability Committee (ÒALCOÓ) reviews the FirmÕs overall liquidity

policy and oversees the contingency funding plan.The ALCO also provides

oversight of the FirmÕs exposure to SPEs,with particular focus on the potential

liquidity support requirements that the Firm may have to those SPEs.
Treasury is responsible for formulating the FirmÕs liquidity strategy and targets,
understanding the FirmÕs on- and off-balance sheet liquidity obligations,

providing policy guidance,overseeing policy adherence,and maintaining 

contingency planning and stress testing.In addition,it identifies and measures

internal and external liquidity warning signals to permit early detection of 

liquidity issues.
An extension of the FirmÕs ongoing liquidity management is its contingency
funding plan.The goals of the plan are to ensure maintenance of appropriate

liquidity during normal and stress periods,measure and project funding

requirements during periods of stress,and manage access to funding sources.

The plan considers temporary and long-term stress scenarios where access 

to unsecured funding is severely limited or nonexistent.The plan forecasts

potential funding needs,taking into account both on- and off-balance sheet

exposures,separately evaluating access to funds by the parent holding company

and JPMorgan Chase Bank.The FirmÕs liquidity risk framework also incorporates tools to monitor three
primary measures of liquidity:¥  Holding company short-term position:Measures the parent holding 
companyÕs ability to repay all obligations with a maturity of less than one

year at a time when the ability of the FirmÕs subsidiaries to pay dividends to

the parent company is constrained.Holding company short-term positionis

managed to a positive position over time.
¥  Cash capital surplus:Measures the FirmÕs ability to fund assets on a fully
collateralized basis,assuming access to unsecured funding is lost.This

measurement is intended to ensure that the illiquid portion of the balance
sheet can be funded by equity,long-term debt,trust preferred securities

and deposits the Firm believes to be core.
¥  Basic surplus:Measures the BankÕs ability to sustain a 90-day stress event
that is specific to the Firm where no new funding can be raised to meet

obligations as they come due.
Each liquidity position is managed to provide sufficient surplus.

Risk monitoring and reporting
Treasury is responsible for measuring,monitoring,reporting and managing

the liquidity profile of the Firm through both normal and stress periods.

Treasury analyzes the diversity and maturity structure of the FirmÕs sources of

funding;and assesses downgrade impact scenarios,contingent funding

needs,and overall collateral availability and pledging status.A downgrade

analysis considers the impact of both parent and bank level downgrades (one-

and two-notch) and calculates the loss of funding and increase in annual
funding costs for both scenarios.A trigger-risk funding analysis considers the

impact of a bank level downgrade through A-1/P-1 as well as the increased

contingent funding requirements that would be triggered.These liquidity 

analytics rely on managementÕs judgment about JPMorgan ChaseÕs ability to

liquidate assets or use them as collateral for borrowings and take into account

credit risk managementÕs historical data on the funding of loan commitments

(e.g.,commercial paper back-up facilities),liquidity commitments to SPEs,

commitments with rating triggers and collateral posting requirements.For a

further discussion of SPEs and other offÐbalance sheet arrangements,see

OffÐbalance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations on pages

58Ð59,as well as Note 1,Note 13,Note 14 and Note 27 on pages 91,

108Ð111,111Ð113,and 124Ð125,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Funding Sources of funds

Consistent with its liquidity management policy,the Firm has raised funds at

the parent holding company sufficient to cover its obligations and those of 
its nonbank subsidiaries that mature over the next 12 months.Long-term

funding needs for the parent holding company over the next several quarters

are expected to be consistent with prior periods.
As of December 31,2005,the FirmÕs liquidity position remained strong based
upon its liquidity metrics.JPMorgan ChaseÕs long-dated funding,including

core deposits,exceeds illiquid assets,and the Firm believes its obligations 

can be met even if access to funding is impaired.The diversity of the FirmÕs funding sources enhances financial flexibility and
limits dependence on any one source,thereby minimizing the cost of funds.

The deposits held by the RFS,CB and TSS lines of business are a stable and

consistent source of funding for JPMorgan Chase Bank.As of December 31,

2005,total deposits for the Firm were $555 billion,which represented 

67% of the FirmÕs funding liabilities.A significant portion of the FirmÕs retail

deposits are ÒcoreÓdeposits,which are less sensitive to interest rate changes

and therefore are considered more stable than market-based deposits.Core
The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of guidelines and policies

that govern the process by which risk assessment and management is under-
taken.In addition,the Audit Committee reviews with management the system

of internal controls and financial reporting that is relied upon to provide reason-

ableassurance of compliance with the FirmÕs operational risk management
processes.Both committees are responsible for oversight of reputation risk.
The Chief Risk Officer and other management report on the risks of the Firm

to the Board of Directors,particularly through the BoardÕs Risk Policy

Committee and Audit Committee.The 
major risk types identified by the Firm arediscussed in the following sections.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
62JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Credit ratings
The credit ratings of JPMorgan ChaseÕs parent holding company and each of its significant banking subsidiaries,as of December 3
1,2005 and 2004,were as follows:
Short-term debtSenior long-term debt
MoodyÕsS&PFitchMoodyÕsS&PFitch
JPMorgan Chase & Co.P-1A-1F1Aa3A+A+
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.P-1A-1+F1+Aa2AA-A+
Chase Bank USA,N.A.P-1A-1+F1+Aa2AA-A+
deposits include all U.S.deposits insured by the FDIC,up to the legal limit of
$100,000 per depositor.In 2005,core bank deposits increased approximately

8% from 2004 year-end.In addition to core retail deposits,the Firm benefits from

substantial,geographically diverse corporate liability balances originated by TSS

and CB through the normal course of business.These franchise-generatedcore

liability balances are also a stable and consistent source of funding due to the
nature of the businesses from which they are generated.For a further discussion

of deposit and liability balance trends,see Business Segment Results and Balance

Sheet Analysis on pages 34Ð35and 55,respectively,of thisAnnual Report.
Additional sources of funds include a variety of both short- and long-term
instruments,including federal funds purchased,commercial paper,bank

notes,medium- and long-term debt,and capital debt securities.This funding 

is managed centrally,using regional expertise and local market access,to

ensure active participation in the global financial markets while maintaining

consistent global pricing.These markets serve as a cost-effective and 

diversified source of funds and are a critical component of the FirmÕs liquidity 

management.Decisions concerning the timing and tenor of accessing these

markets are based upon relative costs,general market conditions,prospective

views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
Finally,funding flexibility is provided by the FirmÕs ability to access the repo
and asset securitization markets.These markets are evaluated on an ongoing

basis to achieve an appropriate balance of secured and unsecured funding.
The ability to securitize loans,and the associated gains on those securitizations,

are principally dependent upon the credit quality and yields of the assets 
securitized and are generally not dependent upon the credit ratings of the
issuing entity.Transactions between the Firm and its securitization structures
are reflected in JPMorgan ChaseÕs consolidated financial statements;these 

relationships include retained interests in securitization trusts,liquidity facilities

and derivative transactions.For further details,see Off-balance sheet

arrangements and contractual cash obligations and Notes 13 and 27 on

pages 58Ð59,108Ð111 and 124Ð125,respectively,of this Annual Report.
IssuanceCorporate credit spreads widened modestly in 2005 across most industries

and sectors.On an historical basis,credit spreads remain near historic tight

levels as corporate balance sheet cash positions are strong and corporate

profits generally healthy.JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit spreads performed in line

with peer spreads in 2005.Continued strong foreign investor participation in the global corporate 
markets allowed JPMorgan Chase to identify attractive opportunities globally to

further diversify its funding and capital sources while lengthening maturities.

During 2005,JPMorgan Chase issued approximately $43.7 billion of long-term

debt and capital debt securities.These issuances were offset partially by

$26.9 billion of long-term debt and capital debt securities that matured or
were redeemed and the FirmÕs redemption of $200 million of preferred stock.

In addition,in 2005 the Firm securitized approximately $18.1 billion of resi-

dential mortgage loans,$15.1 billion of credit card loans and $3.8 billion of

automobile loans,resulting in pre-tax gains on securitizations of $21 million,

$101 million and $9 million,respectively.For a further discussion of loan

securitizations,see Note 13 on pages 108Ð111 of this Annual Report.
The FirmÕs principal insurance subsidiaries had the following financial strength
ratings as of December 31,2005:
MoodyÕsS&PA.M.Best
Chase Insurance Life and Annuity CompanyA2A+A
Chase Insurance Life CompanyA2A+A
The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by credit ratings.
A reduction in these ratings could adversely affect the FirmÕs access to liquidity

sources,increase the cost of funds,trigger additional collateral requirements

and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend.
Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse
earnings stream,strong capital ratios,strong credit quality and risk management
controls,diverse funding sources and strong liquidity monitoring procedures.
If the FirmÕs ratings were downgraded by one notch,the Firm estimates the
incremental cost of funds and the potential loss of funding to be negligible.

Additionally,the Firm estimates the additional funding requirements for 

VIEs and other third-party commitments would not be material.In the 

current environment,the Firm believes a downgrade is unlikely.For additional

information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding

requirements for VIEs,and on derivatives and collateral agreements,see

Special-purpose entities on pages 58Ð59 and Ratings profile of derivative

receivables mark-to-market (ÒMTMÓ) on page 69,of this Annual Report.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
63Credit risk management 
Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default.The Firm
provides credit to customers of all sizes,from large corporate clients to loans

for the individual consumer.The Firm manages the risk/reward relationship of

each portfolio and discourages the retention of loan assets that do not generate

a positive return above the cost of risk-adjusted capital.The majority of the

FirmÕs wholesale loan originations (primarily to IB clients) continues to be 

distributed into the marketplace,with residual holds by the Firm averaging

less than 10%.Wholesale loans generated by CB and AWM are generally

retained on the balance sheet.With regard to the prime consumer credit 

market,the Firm focuses on creating a portfolio that is diversified from both 

a product and a geographical perspective.Within the prime mortgage business,

originated loans are retained on the balance sheet as well as selectively sold to
government agencies;the latter category is routinely classified as held-for-sale.
Credit risk organization
Credit risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer,a member 

of the FirmÕs Operating Committee.The FirmÕs credit risk management 

governance structure consists of the following primary functions:¥establishes a comprehensive credit risk policy framework

¥calculates Allowance for credit losses and ensures appropriate credit risk-
based capital management¥assigns and manages credit authorities to approve all credit exposure

¥monitors and manages credit risk across all portfolio segments

¥manages criticized exposures
Risk identificationThe Firm is exposed to credit risk through lending (e.g.,loans and lending-

related commitments),derivatives trading and capital markets activities.

The credit risk function works in partnership with the business segments in

identifying and aggregating exposure across all lines of business.
Risk measurement
To measure credit risk,the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating

the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default.Losses generated by consumer

loans are more predictable than wholesale losses,but are subject to cyclical

and seasonal factors.Although the frequency of loss is higher on consumer

loans than on wholesale loans,the severity of loss is typically lower and more

manageable.As a result of these differences,methodologies vary depending

on certain factors,including type of asset (e.g.,consumer installment versus

wholesale loan),risk measurement parameters (e.g.,delinquency status and

credit bureau score versus wholesale risk rating) and risk management and

collection processes (e.g.,retail collection center versus centrally managed

workout groups).Credit risk measurement is based upon the amount of

exposure should the obligor or the counterparty default,the probability of

default and the loss severity given a default event.Based upon these factors

and related market-based inputs,the Firm estimates both probable and 

unexpected losses for the wholesale and consumer portfolios.Probable losses,

reflected in the Provision for credit losses,are generally statistically-based

estimates of credit losses over time,anticipated as a result of obligor or coun-

terparty default.However,probable losses are not the sole indicators of risk.

If losses were entirely predictable,the probable loss rate could be factored

into pricing and covered as a normal and recurring cost of doing business.

Unexpected losses,reflected in the allocation of credit risk capital,represent

the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the probable level of losses.

(Refer to Capital management on pages 56Ð58 of this Annual Report for a

further discussion of the credit risk capital methodology.) Risk measurement

for the wholesale portfolio is assessed primarily on a risk-rated basis;for the

consumer portfolio,it is assessed primarily on a credit-scored basis.
Risk-rated exposure For portfolios that are risk-rated,probable and unexpected loss calculations

are based upon estimates of probability of default and loss given default.
Probability of default is expected default calculated on an obligor basis.Loss

given default is an estimate of losses that are based upon collateral and

structural support for each credit facility.Calculations and assumptions are

based upon management information systems and methodologies which are
under continual review.Risk ratings are assigned and reviewed on an ongoing

basis by Credit Risk Management and revised,if needed,to reflect the borrowersÕ

current risk profiles and the related collateral and structural positions.
Credit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS and CS),probable loss is

based upon a statistical analysis of inherent losses over discrete periods of
time.Probable losses are estimated using sophisticated portfolio modeling,

credit scoring and decision-support tools to project credit risks and establish
underwriting standards.In addition,common measures of credit quality derived

from historical loss experience are used to predict consumer losses.Other risk

characteristics evaluated include recent loss experience in the portfolios,changes

in origination sources,portfolio seasoning,loss severity and underlyingcredit

practices,including charge-off policies.These analyses are applied to the

FirmÕs current portfolios in order to forecast delinquencies and severity of

losses,which determine the amount of probable losses.These factors and

analyses are updated on a quarterly basis.
Risk monitoringThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve

the independence and integrity of decision-making and ensure credit risks are
accurately assessed,properly approved,continually monitored and actively

managed at both the transaction and portfolio levels.The policy framework

establishes credit approval authorities,concentration limits,risk-rating

methodologies,portfolio-review parameters and problem-loan management.

Wholesale credit risk is continually monitored on both an aggregate portfolio
level and on an individual customer basis.For consumer credit risk,the key

focus items are trends and concentrations at the portfolio level,where potential

problems can be remedied through changes in underwriting policies and
portfolio guidelines.Consumer Credit Risk Management monitors trends

against business expectations and industry benchmarks.In order to meet

credit risk management objectives,the Firm seeks to maintain a risk profile

that is diverse in terms of borrower,product type,industry and geographic

concentration.Additional diversification of the FirmÕs exposure is accomplished

through loan syndication and participations,loan sales,securitizations,credit

derivatives and other risk-reduction techniques.
Risk reporting
To enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making,aggregate credit

exposure,credit metric forecasts,hold-limit exceptions and risk profile

changes are reported regularly to senior credit risk management.Detailed

portfolio reporting of industry,customer and geographic concentrations

occurs monthly,and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is

reviewed by senior management at least on a quarterly basis.Through the

risk reporting and governance structure,credit risk trends and limit exceptions

are provided regularly to,and discussed with,the Operating Committee.
2005 Credit risk overview
The wholesale portfolio experienced continued credit strength during 2005.

Wholesale nonperforming loans were down by $582 million,or 37%,from

2004;net recoveries were $77 million compared with net charge-offs of 
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
64JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
$186 million in 2004;and the allowance for credit losses decreased by $740
million,or 21%,reflecting the quality of the portfolio at this time.The Firm

anticipatesa return to more normal provisioning for credit losses for the

wholesale portfolio in 2006.In 2005,the Firm also made significant strides in

the multi-year initiative to reengineer specific components of the wholesale
credit risk infrastructure.The Firm is on target to meet the goals of enhancing

the timeliness and accuracy of risk and exposure information and reporting;

management of credit risk in the retained portfolio;support of client relation-

ships;allocation of economic capital and compliance with Basel II initiatives.
Consumer credit was impacted in 2005 by two significant events,Hurricane Katrina
and federal bankruptcy reform legislation.Hurricane Katrina impacted customers

across all consumer businesses (and to a lesser extent CB and AWM).As a result,the

consumer Allowance for loan losses was increased by $350 million ($250 millionin

RFS,and $100 million in CS).It is anticipated that the majority of charge-offs 

associated with the hurricane will be taken against the allowance in 2006.

Bankruptcy reform legislation became effective on October 17,2005.This legislation

prompted a Òrush to fileÓeffect that resulted in a spike in bankruptcy filings and

increased credit losses,predominantly in CS,where it is 
believed that $575 millionin estimated bankruptcy legislation-related credit losses occurred in the fourthquarter of 2005.It is anticipated that the first half of 2006 will experience lower

credit card net charge-offs,as the record levels of bankruptcy filings in the 2005

fourth quarter are believed to have included bankruptcy filings that would have
occurred in 2006.With the exception of the events noted above,the 2005

underlying credit performance,which was driven by favorable loss severity 

performance in residential real estate,continued to be strong.CS continues to

quantify and refine the impact associated with changes in the FFIEC minimum-
payment requirements.Actual implementation of the new payment requirements

began in late 2005 and will run through early 2006;CS anticipates higher net

charge-offs during the second half of 2006 as a result.In 2005,the Firm continued to grow the consumer loan portfolio,focusing 
on businesses providing the most appropriate risk/reward relationship while

keeping within the FirmÕs desired risk tolerance.During the past year,the Firm

continued a de-emphasis of vehicle leasing and sold its $2 billion recreational
vehicle portfolio.Continued growth in most core consumer lending products

(residential real estate,credit cards and small business) reflected a focus on

the prime credit quality segment of the market.
Total credit portfolio
Nonperforming Average annual
As of or for the year ended December 31,Credit exposureassets
(i)Net charge-offsnet charge-off rate
(k)(in millions,except ratios)
200520042005200420052004(h)20052004(h)Total credit portfolio
Loans Ð reported(a)$419,148
$402,114
$2,343
(j)$2,743
(j)$3,819
$3,099
1.00%1.08%Loans Ð securitized(b)70,52770,795ÑÑ3,7762,8985.475.51Total managed loans
(c)489,675472,9092,3432,7437,5955,9971.681.76Derivative receivables
(d)49,78765,98250241NANANANAInterests in purchased receivables
29,74031,722ÑÑNANANANATotal managed credit-related assets
569,202570,6132,3932,9847,5955,9971.681.76Lending-related commitments(e)979,360910,595NANANANANANAAssets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA197247NANANANATotal credit portfolio$1,548,562
$1,481,208$2,590
$3,231
$7,595
$5,997
1.68%1.76%Credit derivative hedges notional
(f)$(29,882)
$(37,200)
$(17)
$(15)
NANANANACollateral held against derivatives
(6,000)(9,301)NANANANANANAHeld-for-sale
Total average HFS loans
$27,689
$20,860
(h)NANANANANANANonperforming Ð purchased(g)341351NANANANANANA(a)Loans are presented net of unearned income of $3.0 billion and $4.1 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(b)Represents securitized credit card receivables.For a further discussion of credit card securitizations,see Card Services on 
pages 45Ð46 of this Annual Report.
(c)Past-due 90 days and over and accruing include loans of $1.1 billion and $998 million,and related credit card securitization
s of $730 million and $1.3 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,
respectively.
(d)Reflects net cash received under credit support annexes to legally enforceable master netting agreements of $27 billion and 
$32 billion as of December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(e)Includes wholesale unused advised lines of credit totaling $28.3 billion and $22.8 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,resp
ectively,which are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with the
Federal Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.Credit card lending-related commitments of $579 billion and $532 
billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively,represents
the total available credit to its cardholders;however,the Firm can reduce or cancel these commitments at any time as permitted 
by law.
(f)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to 
manage the credit risk of credit exposures;these derivatives do not 
qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
(g) Represents distressed HFS wholesale loans purchased as part of IBÕs proprietary activities,which are excluded from nonperfo
rming assets.
(h)Includes six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

(i) Includes nonperforming HFS loans of $136 million and $15 million as of December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.

(j)Excludes nonperforming assets related to loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA pools that are
 insured by government agencies of $1.1 billion and $1.5 billion for
December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.These amounts are excluded,as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(k)Net charge-off rates exclude average loans HFS.
The following table presents JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit portfolio as of
December 31,2005 and 2004.Total credit exposure at December 31,2005,

increased by $67 billion from December 31,2004,reflecting an increase of

$11 billion in the wholesale credit portfolio and $56 billion in the consumer

credit portfolio.The significant majority of the consumer portfolio increase,
Credit portfolio
or $54 billion,was primarily from growth in lending-related commitments.

In the table below,reported loans include all HFS loans,which are carried 

at the lower of cost or fair value with changes in value recorded in Other

income.However,these HFS loans are excluded from the average loan 

balances used for the net charge-off rate calculations.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
65Wholesale credit portfolio
As of December 31,2005,wholesale exposure (IB,CB,TSS and AWM)
increased by $11 billion from December 31,2004.Increases in Loans and

lending-related commitments were offset partially by reductions in Derivative

receivables and Interests in purchased receivables.As described on pages

36Ð37 of this Annual Report,the increase in Loans was primarily in the IB,
Wholesale
Nonperforming Average annual
As of or for the year ended December 31,Credit exposureassets
(g)Net charge-offsnet charge-off rate
(i)(in millions,except ratios)
200520042005200420052004(f)20052004(f)Loans Ð reported(a)$150,111
$135,067
$992
$1,574
$(77)
$186
(0.06)%0.18%Derivative receivables
(b)49,78765,98250241NANANANAInterests in purchased receivables
29,74031,722ÑÑNANANANATotal wholesale credit-related assets
229,638232,7711,0421,815(77)186(0.06)0.18Lending-related commitments(c)323,764309,399NANANANANANAAssets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA1723NANANANATotal wholesale credit exposure$553,402
$542,170
$1,059
$1,838
$(77)
(h)$186
(0.06)%0.18%Credit derivative hedges notional
(d)$(29,882)
$(37,200)
$(17)
$(15)
NANANANACollateral held against derivatives
(6,000)(9,301)NANANANANANAHeld-for-sale
Total average HFS loans
$12,014
$6,124
(f)NANANANANANANonperforming Ð purchased(e)341351NANANANANANA(a)Past-due 90 days and over and accruing include loans of $50 million and $8 million at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively
.(b)Reflects net cash received under credit support annexes to legally enforceable master netting agreements of $27 billion and 
$32 billion as of December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(c)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $28.3 billion and $22.8 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively,w
hich are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with the Federal
Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(d)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to 
manage the credit risk of credit exposures;these derivatives do not qualify for
hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
(e) Represents distressed HFS loans purchased as part of IBÕs proprietary activities,which are excluded from nonperforming asse
ts.
(f)Includes six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

(g) Includes nonperforming HFS loans of $109 million and $2 million as of December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.

(h)Excludes $67 million in gains on sales of nonperforming loans in 2005;for additional information,see page 67 of this Annual 
Report.(i)Net charge-off rates exclude average loans HFS.
reflecting an increase in loans held-for-sale related to securitization and 
syndication activities and growth in the IB credit portfolio.The increase in

lending-related commitments was mostly due to CB activity.The decrease in

Derivative receivables was due primarily to the appreciation of the U.S.dollar

and higher interest rates,partially offset by rising commodity prices.
Wholesale exposure
Maturity profile(c)Ratings profileAt December 31,2005
Investment-grade (ÒIGÓ)
(d)Noninvestment-grade
(d)Total %
(in billions,except ratios) <1 year
(d)1Ð5 years(d)> 5 years(d)TotalAAA to BBB-BB+ & belowTotalof IG
(d)Loans43%44%13%100%$87$45$13266%
Derivative receivables
242561004285084
Interests in purchased receivables
4157210029Ñ29100
Lending-related commitments375671002764832485
Total excluding HFS
36%52%12%100%$434$10153581%
Held-for-sale
(a)18Total exposure
$553
Credit derivative hedges notional
(b)15%74%11%100%$(27)$(3)$(30)90%
Maturity profile(c)Ratings profileAt December 31,2004
Investment-grade (ÒIGÓ)
(d)Noninvestment-grade
(d)Total %
(in billions,except ratios) <1 year
(d)1Ð5 years(d)> 5 years(d)TotalAAA to BBB-BB+ & belowTotalof IG
(d)Loans44%43%13%100%$83$46$12964%
Derivative receivables1939421005796686

Interests in purchased receivables3761210032Ñ32100
Lending-related commitments465221002664330986
Total excluding HFS42%49%9%100%$438$9853682%
Held-for-sale
(a)6Total exposure
$542
Credit derivative hedges notional
(b)18%77%5%100%$(35)$(2)$(37)95%
(a)HFS loans primarily relate to securitization and syndication activities.
(b)Ratings are based upon the underlying referenced assets.

(c)The maturity profile of Loans and lending-related commitments is based upon the remaining contractual maturity.The maturity 
profile of Derivative receivables is based upon the maturity profile of
Average exposure.See page 68 of this Annual Report for a further discussion of Average exposure.
(d)Excludes HFS loans.
Below are summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale portfolio as of December 31,2005 and 2004.The ratings
 scale is based upon the FirmÕs
internal risk ratings and is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
66JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
At December 31,2005,the percentage of the investment-grade wholesale
exposure,excluding HFS,remained relatively unchanged from December 31,

2004.Derivative receivables of less than one year decreased as a result of the

appreciation of the U.S.dollar on short-dated foreign exchange (ÒFXÓ) contracts.

The percentage of derivative exposure greater than 5 years increased from

42% to 56% at year-end 2005,primarily as a result of the reduction in 

shorter-dated exposure.
Collateral
Noninvestment-gradeheld against
As of December 31,2005CreditInvestmentNet charge-offs/Creditderivative
(in millions,except ratios)exposure
(d)gradeNoncriticizedCriticized(recoveries)derivative hedges
(e)receivables
(d)Top 10 industries
(a)Banks and finance companies$53,57988%$6,462$232$(16)$(9,490)$(1,482)
Real estate29,9745513,226276Ñ(560)(2)
Consumer products25,678716,7915902(927)(28)
Healthcare25,435794,97724312(581)(7)
State and municipal governments(b)25,3289840940Ñ(597)(1)
Utilities20,482901,841295(4)(1,624)Ñ
Retail and consumer services(b)19,920754,65428812(989)(5)
Oil and gas18,200774,2679Ñ(1,007)Ñ
Asset managers17,358822,949103(1)(25)(954)
Securities firms and exchanges17,094891,83315Ñ(2,009)(1,525)
All other282,8028247,9663,081(82)(12,073)(1,996)
Total excluding HFS
$535,85081%$95,375$5,172$(77)$(29,882)$(6,000)
Held-for-sale
(c)17,552Total exposure
$553,402
Collateral
Noninvestment-gradeheld against
As of December 31,2004CreditInvestmentNet charge-offs/Creditderivative
(in millions,except ratios)exposure
(d)gradeNoncriticizedCriticized(recoveries)derivative hedges
(e)receivables
(d)Top 10 industries
(a)Banks and finance companies$55,84090%$5,348$187$6$(11,695)$(3,464)

Real estate25,761629,0367659(800)(45)

Consumer products21,251686,26747985(1,189)(50)

Healthcare21,890794,3212491(741)(13)

State and municipal governments19,7289759214Ñ(394)(18)

Utilities21,132852,31689063(2,247)(27)

Retail and consumer services21,573764,815393Ñ(1,767)(42)

Oil and gas14,420812,713519(1,282)(26)

Asset managers20,199794,192115(15)(80)(655)

Securities firms and exchanges18,034882,218171(1,398)(2,068)
All other295,9028248,1505,12227(15,607)(2,893)
Total excluding HFS$535,73082%$89,968$8,282$186$(37,200)$(9,301)
Held-for-sale
(c)6,440Total exposure$542,170
(a)Based upon December 31,2005,determination of Top 10 industries.
(b)During the second quarter of 2005,the Firm revised its industry classification for educational institutions to better reflec
t risk correlations and enhance the FirmÕs management of industry risk,resulting
in an increase to State and municipal governments and a decrease to Retail and consumer services.
(c)HFS loans primarily relate to securitization and syndication activities.

(d)Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivative hedges and collateral held again
st derivative receivables or loans.At December 31,2005 and 2004,collateral
held against derivative receivables excludes $27 billion and $32 billion,respectively,of cash collateral as a result of the Fir
m electing to report the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities net of
cash received and paid,respectively,under legally enforceable master netting agreements.
(e)Represents notional amounts only;these credit derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
Wholesale credit exposure Ð selected industry concentration
The Firm continues to focus on the management and diversification of industry
concentrations,with particular attention paid to industries with actual or poten-

tial credit concerns.As of December 31,2005,the top 10 industries remained

predominantly unchanged from year-end 2004,with the exception of Oil and

gas,which replaced Media.Below are summaries of the top 10 industry con-

centrations as of December 31,2005 and 2004.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
67¥ Banks and finance companies:This industry group,primarily consisting
of exposure to commercial banks,is the largest segment of the FirmÕs

wholesale credit portfolio.Credit quality is high,as 88% of the exposure 

in this category is rated investment-grade.
¥ Real estate:This industry,the second largest segment of the FirmÕs whole-
sale credit portfolio,grew modestly in 2005,as the portfolio continuedto

benefit from relatively low interest rates,high liquidity and increased capital

demand.The exposure is well-diversified by client,transaction type,geography

and property type.
¥ Oil and gas:During 2005,exposure to this industry group increased as a
result of the rise in oil and gas prices;derivative receivables MTM increased

on contracts that were executed at lower price levels.In addition,the Firm

extended shorter term loans that were expected to be refinanced through
capital market transactions and further syndications.
¥ Media:Criticized exposures within Media increased in 2005,and this
industry now represents the largest percentage of the total criticized 
portfolio.The increase was attributable primarily to the extension of 

short-term financings to select borrowers.The remaining Media portfolio 

is stable,with the majority of the exposure rated investment-grade.
¥ Automotive:In 2005,Automotive original equipment manufacturers
(ÒOEMsÓ) and suppliers based in North America were negatively affected

by a challenging operating environment.As a result,criticized exposures to

the Automotive industry grew,primarily as a result of downgrades to select

names within the portfolio.However,though larger in the aggregate,most

of the criticized exposure remains undrawn and performing.
¥ All other:All other in the wholesale credit exposure concentration table at
December 31,2005,excluding HFS,included $283 billion of credit exposure

to 21 industry segments.Exposures related to SPEs and high-net-worth

individuals totaled 45% of this category.SPEs provide secured financing

(generally backed by receivables,loans or bonds on a bankruptcy-remote,

non-recourse or limited-recourse basis) originated by companies in a
diverse group of industries that are not highly correlated.The remaining 

All other exposure is well diversified across other industries;none comprise

more than 3% of total exposure.
Derivative contracts
In the normal course of business,the Firm utilizes derivative instruments to

meet the needs of customers,to generate revenues through trading activities,

to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates,currencies and other

markets and to manage its own credit risk.The Firm uses the same credit risk

management procedures as those used for its traditional lending activitiesto

assess and approve potential credit exposures when entering into derivative

transactions.
Wholesale criticized exposure

Exposures deemed criticized generally represent a ratings profile similar to a

rating of CCC+/Caa1 and lower,as defined by Standard & PoorÕs/MoodyÕs.

The criticized component of the portfolio decreased to $5.2 billion (excluding

HFS) at December 31,2005,from $8.3 billion at year-end 2004,reflecting

strong credit quality,refinancings and gross charge-offs.Also contributing to

the decline was a refinement in methodology in the first quarter of 2005 to

align the ratings methodologies of the heritage firms.
At December 31,2005,Automotive,Telecom services and Retail and consumer
services moved into the top 10 of wholesale criticized exposure,replacing

Chemicals/plastics,Business services and Metals/mining industries.
Wholesale nonperforming assets
Wholesale nonperforming assets (excluding purchased held-for-sale wholesale

loans) decreased by $779 million from $1.8 billion at December 31,2004,as

a result of loan sales,repayments and gross charge-offs.For full year 2005,

wholesale net recoveries were $77 million compared with net charge-offs of
$186 million in 2004,primarily due to lower gross charge-offs.The net recovery

rate for full year 2005 was 0.06% compared with a net charge-off rate of

0.18% for the prior year.Net charge-offs do not include $67 million of gains

from sales of nonperforming loans that were sold during 2005 to a counter-
party other than the original borrower.When it is determined that a loan will

be sold it is transferred into a held-for-sale account.Held-for-sale loans are

accounted for at lower of cost or fair value,with changes in value recorded in

other revenue.
Wholesale criticized exposure Ð industry concentrations
20052004As of December 31,Credit% ofCredit% of
(in millions)exposureportfolioexposureportfolio
Media$684
13.2%$5096.1%
Automotive64312.43594.4
Consumer products59011.44795.8
Telecom services
4308.32753.3
Airlines3336.54505.4
Utilities2955.789010.7
Machinery and equipment manufacturing2905.64595.6
Retail and consumer services2885.63934.8
Real estate2765.47659.2
Building materials/construction2665.14305.2
All other1,07720.83,27339.5
Total excluding HFS
$5,172
100.0%$8,282100.0%
Held-for-sale
(a)1,0692Total 
$6,241
$8,284
(a) HFS loans primarily relate to securitization and syndication activities;excludes purchased
nonperforming HFS loans.
Wholesale selected industry discussion
Presented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm has

significant exposure and which it continues to monitor because of actual or
potential credit concerns.For additional information,refer to the tables above

and on the preceding page.
Notional amounts and derivative receivables marked to market (ÒMTMÓ)
Notional amounts(a)Derivative receivables MTM 
As of December 31,(in billions)2005200420052004Interest rate 
$38,493
$37,022
$30
$46
Foreign exchange 
2,1361,88638Equity45843466Credit derivatives
2,2411,07143Commodity 26510173Total
$43,593
$40,514
5066Collateral held against derivative receivables
NANA(6)(9)Exposure net of collateral
NANA$44
(b)$57
(c)(a) The notional amounts represent the gross sum of long and short third-party notional derivative contracts,excluding written 
options and foreign exchange spot contracts,which significantly exceed
the possible credit losses that could arise from such transactions.For most derivative transactions,the notional principal amou
nt does not change hands;it is used simply as a reference to calculate
payments.
(b) The Firm held $33 billion of collateral against derivative receivables as of December 31,2005,consisting of $27 billion in 
net cash received under credit support annexes to legally enforceable masternetting agreements,and $6 billion of other liquid securities collateral.The benefit of the $27 billion is reflected within the 
$50 billion of derivative receivables MTM.Excluded from the $33 billion of
collateral is $10 billion of collateral delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions;this collateral secures exposure
 that could arise in the derivatives portfolio should the MTM of the clientÕs
transactions move in the FirmÕs favor.Also excluded are credit enhancements in the form of letters of credit and surety receiva
bles.
(c) The Firm held $41 billion of collateral against derivative receivables as of December 31,2004,consisting of $32 billion in 
net cash received under credit support annexes to legally enforceable masternetting agreements,and $9 billion of other liquid securities collateral.The benefit of the $32 billion is reflected within the 
$66 billion of derivative receivables MTM.Excluded from the $41 billion of
collateral is $10 billion of collateral delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions;this collateral secures exposure
 that could arise in the derivatives portfolio should the MTM of the clientÕs
transactions move in the FirmÕs favor.Also excluded are credit enhancements in the form of letters of credit and surety receiva
bles.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
68JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
0$10$20$30$40$50
$60$701 year2 years5 years10 years
MDPAVG
AVG
DRE
DREExposure profile of derivatives measures
December 31, 2005 
(in billions) $44The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts and the reported derivative receivables (i.e.,the MTM or fair val
ue of the derivative contracts after
taking into account the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements) at each of the dates indicated:The MTM of derivative receivables contracts represents the cost to replace 
the contracts at current market rates should the counterparty default.When

JPMorgan Chase has more than one transaction outstanding with a counter-

party,and a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists with that

counterparty,the netted MTM exposure,less collateral held,represents,in 

the FirmÕs view,the appropriate measure of current credit risk.
While useful as a current view of credit exposure,the net MTM value of the
derivative receivables does not capture the potential future variability of that

credit exposure.To capture the potential future variability of credit exposure,

the Firm calculates,on a client-by-client basis,three measures of potential

derivatives-related credit loss:Peak,Derivative Risk Equivalent (ÒDREÓ) and

Average exposure (ÒAVGÓ).These measures all incorporate netting and collateral

benefits,where applicable.
Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure calculated
at a 97.5% confidence level.However,the total potential future credit risk

embedded in the FirmÕs derivatives portfolio is not the simple sum of all Peak

client credit risks.This is because,at the portfolio level,credit risk is reduced

by the fact that when offsetting transactions are done with separate counter-

parties,only one of the two trades can generate a credit loss,even if both

counterparties were to default simultaneously.The Firm refers to this effect 

as market diversification,and the Market-Diversified Peak (ÒMDPÓ) measure

is a portfolio aggregation of counterparty Peak measures,representing the

maximum losses at the 97.5% confidence level that would occur if all coun-
terparties defaulted under any one given market scenario and time frame.
Derivative Risk Equivalent (ÒDREÓ) exposure is a measure that expresses 
the riskiness of derivative exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to

the riskiness of loan exposures.The measurement is done by equating the

unexpected loss in a derivative counterparty exposure (which takes into 

consideration both the loss volatility and the credit rating of the counterparty)

with the unexpected loss in a loan exposure (which takes into consideration

only the credit rating of the counterparty).DRE is a less extreme measure of
potential credit loss than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm
for credit approval of derivative transactions.
Finally,Average exposure (ÒAVGÓ) is a measure of the expected MTM value of the
FirmÕs derivative receivables at future time periods,including the benefit of

collateral.AVG exposure over the total life of the derivative contract is used as

the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculate credit capital
and the Credit Valuation Adjustment (ÒCVAÓ),as further described below.

Average exposure was $36 billion and $38 billion at December 31,2005 and

2004,respectively,compared with derivative receivables MTM net of other

highly liquid collateral of $44 billion and $57 billion at December 31,2005

and 2004,respectively.
The graph below shows exposure profiles to derivatives over the next 
10 years as calculated by the MDP,DRE and AVG metrics.All three measures

generally show declining exposure after the first year,if no new trades were

added to the portfolio.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
69The Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to mitigate
counterparty credit risk in derivatives.The percentage of the FirmÕs derivatives

transactions subject to collateral agreements increased slightly,to 81% as 

of December 31,2005,from 79% at December 31,2004.The Firm posted 

$27 billion and $31 billion of collateral as of December 31,2005 and 

2004,respectively.
Certain derivative and collateral agreements include provisions that require the
counterparty and/or the Firm,upon specified downgrades in their respective

credit ratings,to post collateral for the benefit of the other party.As of

December 31,2005,the impact of a single-notch ratings downgrade to

JPMorgan Chase Bank,from its current rating of AA- to A+,would have been

an additional $1.4 billion of collateral posted by the Firm;the impact of a 

six-notch ratings downgrade (from AA- to BBB-) would have been $3.8 billion

of additional collateral.Certain derivative contracts also provide for terminationof

the contract,generally upon a downgrade of either the Firm or the counterparty,

at the then-existing MTM value of the derivative contracts.
Credit derivatives
The following table presents the FirmÕs notional amounts of credit derivatives

protection purchased and sold by the respective businesses as of December 31,
2005 and 2004:Credit derivatives positions
Notional amountPortfolio managementDealer/client
December 31,ProtectionProtectionProtectionProtection
(in billions)purchased
(a)soldpurchasedsoldTotal
2005$31$1$1,096$1,113$2,241
200437Ñ5015331,071
(a) Includes $848 million and $2 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively,
of portfolio credit derivatives.
In managing wholesale credit exposure,the Firm purchases single-name and
portfolio credit derivatives;this activity does not reduce the reported level 

of assets on the balance sheet or the level of reported off-balance sheet 
commitments.The Firm also diversifies exposures by providing (i.e.,selling)

credit protection,which increases exposure to industries or clients where the

Firm has little or no client-related exposure.This activity is not material to the

FirmÕs overall credit exposure.
The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets Derivative receivables MTM,net of 
cash and other liquid securities collateral,for the dates indicated:
Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM
Rating equivalent2005
2004December 31,Exposure net% of exposureExposure net% of exposure
(in millions)of collateral
(a)net of collateralof collateral
(b)net of collateral
AAA to AA-
$20,73548%
$30,38453%
A+ to A-
8,07418
9,10916
BBB+ to BBB-8,24319
9,52217
BB+ to B-6,58015
7,27113
CCC+ and below155Ñ3951
Total
$43,787100%
$56,681100%
(a) The Firm held $33 billion of collateral against derivative receivables as of December 31,2005,consisting of $27 billion in 
net cash received under credit support annexes to legally enforceable masternetting agreements,and $6 billion of other liquid securities collateral.The benefit of the $27 billion is reflected within the 
$50 billion of derivative receivables MTM.Excluded from the $33 billion of
collateral is $10 billion of collateral delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions;this collateral secures exposure
 that could arise in the derivatives portfolio should the MTM of the clientÕs
transactions move in the FirmÕs favor.Also excluded are credit enhancements in the form of letters of credit and surety receiva
bles.
(b) The Firm held $41 billion of collateral against derivative receivables as of December 31,2004,consisting of $32 billion in 
net cash received under credit support annexes to legally enforceable masternetting agreements,and $9 billion of other liquid securities collateral.The benefit of the $32 billion is reflected within the 
$66 billion of derivative receivables MTM.Excluded from the $41 billion of
collateral is $10 billion of collateral delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions;this collateral secures exposure
 that could arise in the derivatives portfolio should the MTM of the clientÕs
transactions move in the FirmÕs favor.Also excluded are credit enhancements in the form of letters of credit and surety receiva
bles.
The MTM value of the FirmÕs derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment,
the CVA,to reflect the credit quality of counterparties.The CVA is based 

upon the FirmÕs AVG exposure to a counterparty and the counterpartyÕs credit

spread in the credit derivatives market.The primary components of changes 

in CVA are credit spreads,new deal activity or unwinds,and changes in the

underlying market environment.The Firm believes that active risk management
is essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio.
The Firm risk manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit

derivative transactions,as well as interest rate,foreign exchange,equity and

commodity derivative transactions.The MTM value of the FirmÕs derivative

payables does not incorporate a valuation adjustment to reflect JPMorgan

ChaseÕs credit quality.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
70JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase has limited counterparty exposure as a result of credit derivatives transactions.Of the $50 billion of total Derivative receivables at

December 31,2005,approximately $4 billion,or 8%,was associated with

credit derivatives,before the benefit of liquid securities collateral.
Dealer/clientAt December 31,2005,the total notional amount of protection purchased and

sold in the dealer/client business increased $1.2 trillion from year-end 2004 as

a result of increased trade volume in the market.This business has a mismatch

between the total notional amounts of protection purchased and sold.However,

in the FirmÕs view,the risk positions are largely matched when securities used

to risk manage certain derivative positions are taken into consideration and

the notional amounts are adjusted to a duration-based equivalent basis or to

reflect different degrees of subordination in tranched structures.
Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives
December 31,Notional amount of protection purchased
(in millions)20052004Credit derivatives used to manage:
Loans and lending-related commitments$18,926
$25,002
Derivative receivables
12,08812,235Total
$31,014
$37,237
Credit portfolio management activities
The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for portfolio management
activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133,and therefore,

effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 is not performed.These derivatives are

reported at fair value,with gains and losses recognized as Trading revenue.

The MTM value incorporates both the cost of credit derivative premiums and

changes in value due to movement in spreads and credit events;in contrast,

the loans and lending-related commitments being risk-managed are accounted
for on an accrual basis.Loan interest and fees are generally recognized in 

Net interest income,and impairment is recognized in the Provision for credit

losses.This asymmetry in accounting treatment,between loans and lending-

related commitments and the credit derivatives utilized in portfolio management

activities,causes earnings volatility that is not representative,in the FirmÕs

view,of the true changes in value of the FirmÕs overall credit exposure.The

MTM related to the FirmÕs credit derivatives used for managing credit exposure,

as well as the mark related to the CVA,which reflects the credit quality of

derivatives counterparty exposure,are included in the table below:
For the year ended December 31,
(in millions)20052004(c)Hedges of lending-related commitments(a)$24
$(234)
CVA and hedges of CVA
(a)84188Net gains (losses)(b)$108
$(46)
(a) These hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
(b) Excludes $8 million and $52 million in 2005 and 2004,respectively,of other credit portfolio
trading results that are not associated with hedging activities.
(c) Includes six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan
Chase results.
The Firm also actively manages wholesale credit exposure through loan 
and commitment sales.During 2005 and 2004,the Firm sold $4.0 billion 

and $5.9 billion of loans and commitments,respectively,recognizing gains 

of $76 million and losses of $8 million in 2005 and 2004,respectively.

These activities are not related to the FirmÕs securitization activities,which 

are undertaken for liquidity and balance sheet management purposes.For a

further discussion of securitization activity,see Note 13 on pages 108Ð111

of this Annual Report.
Lending-related commitments 
The contractual amount of wholesale lending-related commitments 

was $324 billion at December 31,2005,compared with $309 billion at 

December 31,2004.In the FirmÕs view,the total contractual amount of these

instruments is not representative of the FirmÕs actual credit risk exposure or

funding requirements.In determining the amount of credit risk exposure the

Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments,which is used as the

basis for allocating credit risk capital to these instruments,the Firm has

established a Òloan-equivalentÓamount for each commitment;this amount

represents the portion of the unused commitment or other contingent expo-
sure that is expected,based upon average portfolio historical experience,to

become outstanding in the event of a default by an obligor.The loan equivalent

amount of the FirmÕs lending-related commitments as of December 31,2005

and 2004,was $178 billion and $162 billion,respectively.
Country exposure 
The Firm has a comprehensive process for measuring and managing exposures

and risk in emerging markets countries Ð defined as those countries potentially

vulnerable to sovereign events.Exposures to a country include all credit-related

lending,trading,and investment activities,whether cross-border or locally

funded.Exposure amounts are adjusted for credit enhancements (e.g.,

guarantees and letters of credit) provided by third parties located outside the

country,if the enhancements fully cover the country risk as well as the business

risk.As of December 31,2005,the FirmÕs exposure to any individual emerging

markets country was not material.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
71Consumer credit portfolio 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential mortgages
and home equity loans,credit cards,auto and education financings and loans

to small businesses.The domestic consumer portfolio reflects the 
benefit of diversification from both a product and a geographical perspective.
The primary focus is on serving the prime consumer credit market.
The following table presents managed consumer creditÐrelated information for the dates indicated:
Consumer portfolio CreditNonperformingAverage annual
As of or for the year ended December 31,exposureassets
(g)Net charge-offsnet charge-off rate
(i)(in millions,except ratios)
200520042005200420052004(f)20052004(f)Consumer real estateHome finance Ð Home equity and other(a)$76,727
$67,837
$422
$416
$129
$554
0.18%1.18%Home finance Ð Mortgage56,72656,81644125725190.050.05Total Home finance
(a)133,453124,653863(h)673(h)1545730.130.65Auto & education finance(b)49,04762,7121951932772630.540.52Consumer & small business and other 14,79915,1072802951411540.981.64Credit card receivables Ð reported
(c)71,73864,5751383,3241,9234.944.95Total consumer loans 
Ð reported269,037
267,0471,3511,1693,8962,9131.561.56Credit card securitizations(c)(d)70,52770,795ÑÑ3,7762,8985.475.51Total consumer loans 
Ð managed
(c)339,564337,8421,3511,1697,6725,8112.412.43Assets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA180224NANANANATotal consumer related assets 
Ð managed339,564
337,8421,5311,3937,6725,8112.412.43Consumer lendingÐrelated commitments:Home finance65,10653,223NANANANANANAAuto & education finance5,7325,193NANANANANANAConsumer & small business and other 5,43710,312NANANANANANACredit card(e)579,321532,468NANANANANANATotal lending-related commitments
655,596601,196NANANANANANATotal consumer credit portfolio$995,160
$939,038
$1,531
$1,393
$7,672
$5,811
2.41%2.43%Total average HFS loans
$15,675
$14,736
(f)NANANANANANAMemo:Credit card Ð managed
142,265135,370$13
$8$7,100
$4,821
5.21%5.27%(a)Includes $406 million of charge-offs related to the manufactured home loan portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2004.
(b)Excludes operating lease-related assets of $858 million for December 31,2005.Balances at December 31,2004,were insignificant
.(c)Past-due loans 90 days and over and accruing includes credit card receivables of $1.1 billion and $998 million,and related c
redit card securitizations of $730 million and $1.3 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(d)Represents securitized credit cards.For a further discussion of credit card securitizations,see Card Services on pages 45Ð46
 of this Annual Report.
(e)The credit card lending-related commitments represent the total available credit to the FirmÕs cardholders.The Firm has not 
experienced,and does not anticipate,that all of its cardholders will 
exercise their entire available line of credit at any given point in time.The Firm can reduce or cancel a credit card commitmen
t by providing the cardholder prior notice or without notice as permitted by law.
(f)Includes six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

(g)Includes nonperforming HFS loans of $27 million and $13 million at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.

(h)Excludes nonperforming assets related to loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA pools that are
 insured by government agencies of $1.1 billion and $1.5 billion for
December 31,2005,and December 31,2004,respectively.These amounts are excluded,as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(i)Net charge-off rates exclude average loans HFS.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
72JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Total managed consumer loans at December 31,2005,were $340 billion,up
from $338 billion at year-end 2004.Consumer lendingÐrelated commitments

increased by 9% to $656 billion at December 31,2005,reflecting growth in

credit cards and home equity lines of credit.The following discussion relates to

the specific loan and lending-related categories within the consumer portfolio.
Retail Financial ServicesAverage RFS loan balances for 2005 were $198 billion.New loans originated 

in 2005 reflect high credit quality consistent with managementÕs focus on 

the prime credit market segment.The net charge-off rate for retail loans in

2005 was 0.31%,a decrease of 36 basis points from 2004.This decrease

was attributable primarily to $406 million of charge-offs in the fourth quarter

of 2004 associated with the sale of the $4.0 billion manufactured home loan
portfolio.Excluding these charge-offs,the net charge-off rate would have

improved eight basis points.
Home Finance:Home finance loans on the balance sheet at December 31,2005,were $133 billion.This amount consisted of $77 billion of home equity

and other loans and $56 billion of mortgages,including mortgage loans 

held-for-sale.Home finance receivables as of December 31,2005,reflect an

increase of $9 billion from year-end 2004 driven by growth in the home 

equity portfolio.Home Finance provides consumer real estate lending to the

full spectrum of credit borrowers,including $15 billion in sub-prime credits 

at December 31,2005.Home Finance does not offer mortgage products that

result in negative amortization but does offer mortgages with interest-only
payment options to predominantly prime borrowers.
The geographic distribution of outstanding consumer real estate loans is well
diversified as shown in the table below.
Consumer real estate loan portfolio by geographic location
December 31,20052004(in billions)Outstanding %Outstanding%
Top 10 U.S.States
California$24.418%
$22.818%
New York
19.515
18.415
Florida10.38
7.16
Illinois7.76
8.06
Texas
7.66
7.96
Ohio6.15
6.15
Arizona5.84
5.24
New Jersey5.34
4.54
Michigan5.24
5.24
Colorado
3.22
3.23
Total Top 10
95.172
88.471
Other38.428
36.329
Total
$133.5100%
$124.7100%
Auto & Education Finance:As of December 31,2005,Auto & education
finance loans decreased to $49 billion from $63 billion at year-end 2004.The

decrease in outstanding loans was caused primarily by a difficult auto lending

market in 2005,$3.8 billion in securitizations,the sale of the $2.0 billion

recreational vehicle portfolio and the de-emphasis of vehicle leasing,which

comprised $4.4 billion of outstanding loans as of December 31,2005.It is

anticipated that over time vehicle leases will account for a smaller share of
balance sheet receivables and exposure.The Auto & Education loan portfolio

reflects a high concentration of prime quality credits.
Consumer & Small Business and other:As of December 31,2005,Small
business & other consumer loans remained relatively stable at $14.8 billion
compared with 2004 year-end levels of $15.1 billion.The portfolio reflects

highly collateralized loans,often with personal loan guarantees.
Card Services
JPMorgan Chase analyzes the credit card portfolio on a managed basis,

which includes credit card receivables on the consolidated balance sheet 

and those receivables sold to investors through securitization.Managed credit

card receivables were $142 billion at December 31,2005,an increase of 

$7 billion from year-end 2004,reflecting solid growth in the business as well

as the addition of $2.2 billion of receivables as a result of the acquisition of

the Sears Canada credit card business.
Consumer credit quality trends remained stable despite the effects ofincreased losses due to bankruptcy legislation,which became effective

October 17,2005.The managed credit card net charge-off rate decreased 

to 5.21% in 2005 from 5.27% in 2004.The 30-day delinquency rates

declined significantly to 2.79% in 2005 from 3.70% in 2004,primarily driven

by accelerated loss recognition of delinquent accounts as a result of the

bankruptcy reform legislation and strong underlying credit quality.The 

managed credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned portfolio
that has good U.S.geographic diversification.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
73Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses
For the year ended December 31,
20052004(e)(in millions)WholesaleConsumerTotalWholesaleConsumerTotal
Loans:Beginning balance at January 1,
$3,098$4,222$7,320
$2,204$2,319$4,523
Addition resulting from the Merger,July 1,2004
ÑÑÑ
1,7881,3353,123
Gross charge-offs(255)(4,614)(4,869)
(543)(3,262)(3,805)
Gross recoveries3327181,050
357349706
Net (charge-offs) recoveries77(3,896)(3,819)
(186)(2,913)(3,099)
Provision for loan losses:
Provision excluding accounting policy conformity(716)4,2913,575
(c)(605)2,4031,798
Accounting policy conformityÑÑÑ
(103)1,188
(f)1,085Total Provision for loan losses
(716)4,2913,575
(708)3,5912,883
Other(6)2014
Ñ(110)(110)
(g)Ending balance$2,453
(a)$4,637
(b)$7,090
$3,098
(a)$4,222
(b)$7,320
Components:Asset specific$203$
Ñ$203
$469$Ñ$469
Statistical component1,6293,4225,051
1,6393,1694,808
Adjustment to statistical component6211,2151,836
9901,0532,043
Total Allowance for loan losses
$2,453$4,637$7,090
$3,098$4,222$7,320
Lending-related commitments:
Beginning balance at January 1,
$480$12$492
$320$4$324
Addition resulting from the Merger,July 1,2004
ÑÑÑ
4999508
Provision for lending-related commitments:Provision excluding accounting policy conformity(95)3(92)
(111)(1)(112)
Accounting policy conformityÑÑÑ
(227)Ñ(227)
Total Provision for lending-related commitments
(95)3(92)
(338)(1)(339)
OtherÑÑÑ
(1)Ñ(1)
Ending balance$385$15$400
(d)$480$12$492
(h)(a)The wholesale allowance for loan losses to total wholesale loans was 1.85% and 2.41%,excluding wholesale HFS loans of $17.6 
billion and $6.4 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(b)The consumer allowance for loan losses to total consumer loans was 1.84% and 1.70%,excluding consumer HFS loans of $16.6 bil
lion and $18.0 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(c)2005 includes a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina allocated as follows:Retail Financial Services $250 million,C
ard Services $100 million,Commercial Banking $35 million,Asset &
Wealth Management $3 million and Corporate $12 million.
(d)Includes $60 million of asset-specific and $340 million of formula-based allowance at December 31,2005.The formula-based all
owance for lending-related commitments is based upon statistical
calculation.There is no adjustment to the statistical calculation for lending-related commitments.
(e)Includes six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.

(f)Reflects an increase of $1.4 billion as a result of the decertification of heritage Bank One sellerÕs interest in credit car
d securitizations,partially offset by a $254 million decrease in the allowance to
conform methodologies in 2004.(g)Primarily represents the transfer of the allowance for accrued interest and fees on reported and securitized credit card loa
ns.
(h)Includes $130 million of asset-specific and $362 million of formula-based allowance at December 31,2004.The formula-based al
lowance for lending-related commitments is based upon a statistical
calculation.There is no adjustment to the statistical calculation for lending-related commitments.
Allowance for credit losses 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs allowance for credit losses is intended to cover probable
credit losses,including losses where the asset is not specifically identified or

the size of the loss has not been fully determined.At least quarterly,the

allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer of the Firm,

the Risk Policy Committee,a subgroup of the Operating Committee,and the

Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Firm.The allowance is

reviewed relative to the risk profile of the FirmÕs credit portfolio and current

economic conditions and is adjusted if,in managementÕs judgment,changes
are warranted.The allowance includes an asset-specific component and a 
formula-based component,the latter of which consists of a statistical calculation

and adjustments to the statistical calculation.For further discussion of the

components of the Allowance for credit losses,see Critical accounting estimates

used by the Firm on page 81 and Note 12 on pages 107Ð108of this Annual

Report.At December 31,2005,management deemed the allowance for credit

losses to be sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio,

including losses that are not specifically identified or for which the size of the
loss has not yet been fully determined.ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
74JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The reduction in the allowance for credit losses of $322 million from
December 31,2004,was driven primarily by continued credit strength in 

the wholesale businesses,partially offset by an increase in the consumer

allowance as a result of the special provision taken in the third quarter of

2005 due to Hurricane Katrina.Excluding held-for-sale loans,the allowance for loan losses represented
1.84% of loans at December 31,2005,compared with 1.94% at December

31,2004.The wholesale component of the allowance decreased to $2.5 billion

as of December 31,2005,from $3.1 billion at year-end 2004,due to strong

credit quality across all wholesale businesses.Excluding the special provision
for Hurricane Katrina,the consumer component of the allowance would 
have been $4.3 billion as of December 31,2005,a slight increase from

December 31,2004.
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the FirmÕs process of extending
credit,management also computes an asset-specific component and a 

formula-based component for wholesale lendingÐrelated commitments.

These are computed using a methodology similar to that used for the 

wholesale loan portfolio,modified for expected maturities and probabilities 

of drawdown.This allowance,which is reported in Other liabilities,was 

$400 million and $492 million at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
Provision for credit losses
For a discussion of the reported Provision for credit losses,see page 29 of this Annual Report.The managed provision for credit
 losses reflects credit card securitiza-
tions.At December 31,2005,securitized credit card outstandings were relatively flat compared with the prior year-end.
Provision forFor the year ended December 31,
(a)Provision for loan losseslending-related commitmentsTotal provision for credit losses
(in millions)20052004200520042005(c)2004Investment Bank$(757)
$(525)
$(81)
$(115)
$(838)
$(640)
Commercial Banking8735(14)67341Treasury & Securities Services
(1)71ÑÑ7Asset & Wealth Management
(55)(12)(1)(2)(56)(14)Corporate
10(110)ÑÑ10(110)Total Wholesale
(716)(605)(95)(111)(811)(716)Retail Financial Services7214503(1)724449Card Services3,5701,953ÑÑ3,5701,953Total Consumer
4,2912,4033(1)4,2942,402Accounting policy conformity(b)Ñ1,085Ñ(227)Ñ858Total provision for credit losses3,575
2,883(92)(339)3,4832,544Credit card securitization3,7762,898ÑÑ3,7762,898Accounting policy conformityÑ(1,085)Ñ227Ñ(858)  Total managed provision for credit losses$7,351
$4,696
$(92)
$(112)
$7,259
$4,584
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)The 2004 provision for loan losses includes an increase of approximately $1.4 billion as a result of the decertification of 
heritage Bank One sellerÕs interest in credit card securitizations,
partially offset by a reduction of $357 million to conform provision methodologies.The 2004 provision for lending-related commi
tments reflects a reduction of $227 million to conform provisionmethodologies in the wholesale portfolio.
(c)2005 includes a $400 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina allocated as follows:Retail Financial Services $
250 million,Card Services $100 million,Commercial Banking $35 million,
Asset & Wealth Management $3 million and Corporate $12 million.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
75Market risk management 
Market risk is the exposure to an adverse change in the market value of port-
folios and financial instruments caused by a change in market prices or rates.
Market risk management 
Market Risk Management (ÒMRMÓ) is an independent corporate risk governance

function that identifies,measures,monitors,and controls market risk.It seeks

to facilitate efficient risk/return decisions and to reduce volatility in operating

performance.It strives to make the FirmÕs market risk profile transparent to

senior management,the Board of Directors and regulators.Market Risk

Management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer,a member of the FirmÕs

Operating Committee.MRMÕs governance structure consists of the following 

primary functions:¥ Establishment of a comprehensive market risk policy framework
¥ Independent measurement,monitoring and control 
of business segment market risk
¥ Definition,approval and monitoring of limits

¥ Performance of stress testing and qualitative risk assessments
In addition,the FirmÕs business segments have valuation control functions that
are responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the valuations of positions that

expose the Firm to market risk.These groups report primarily into Finance.
Risk identification and classificationMRM works in partnership with the business segments to identify market

risks throughout the Firm and to refine and monitor market risk policies and

procedures.All business segments are responsible for comprehensive identifi-

cation and verification of market risks within their units.Risk-taking businesses

have functions that act independently from trading personnel and are

responsible for verifying risk exposures that the business takes.In addition 

to providingindependent oversight for market risk arising from the business

segments,MRM also is responsible for identifying exposures which may not

be large within individual business segments,but which may be large for the

Firm in aggregate.Regular meetings are held between MRM and the heads of

risk-taking businesses to discuss and decide on risk exposures in the context
of the market environment and client flows.
Positions that expose the Firm to market risk can be classified into two cate-
gories:trading and nontrading risk.Trading risk includes positions that are held

by the Firm as part of a business segment or unit whose main business strategy

is to trade or make markets.Unrealized gains and losses in these positions are

generally reported in trading revenue.Nontrading risk includes securities held

for longer term investment,mortgage servicing rights,and securities and

derivatives used to manage the FirmÕs asset/liability exposures.Unrealized gains

and losses in these positions are generally not reported in Trading revenue.
Trading risk
Fixed income risk (which includes interest rate risk and credit spread risk)

involves the potential decline in net income or financial condition due to
adverse changes in market rates,whether arising from client activities or 

proprietary positions taken by the Firm.
Foreign exchange,equities and commodities risks involve the potential
decline in net income to the Firm due to adverse changes in foreign
exchange,equities or commodities markets,whether arising from client 

activities or proprietary positions taken by the Firm.
Nontrading risk
Nontrading risk arises from execution of the FirmÕs core business strategies,

the delivery of products and services to its customers,and the discretionary

positions the Firm undertakes to risk-manage exposures.
These exposures can result from a variety of factors,including differences 
in the timing among the maturity or repricing of assets,liabilities and 

offÐbalance sheet instruments.Changes in the level and shape of market

interest rate curves also may create interest rate risk,since the repricing 

characteristics of the FirmÕs assets do not necessarily match those of its 

liabilities.The Firm also is exposed to basis risk,which is the difference in 

re-pricing characteristics of two floating rate indices,such as the prime rate

and 3-month LIBOR.In addition,some of the FirmÕs products have embedded

optionality that impact pricing and balances.
The FirmÕs mortgage banking activities also give rise to complex interest rate
risks.The interest rate exposure from the FirmÕs mortgage banking activities 

is a result of changes in the level of interest rates,option and basis risk.

Option risk arises primarily from prepayment options embedded in mortgages
and changes in the probability of newly-originated mortgage commitments
actually closing.Basis risk results from different relative movements between

mortgage rates and other interest rates.
Risk measurement
Tools used to measure risk

Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk,the Firm

uses various metrics,both statistical and nonstatistical,including:
¥  Nonstatistical risk measures
¥  Value-at-Risk (ÒVARÓ)

¥  Loss advisories

¥  Economic value stress testing

¥  Earnings-at-risk stress testing

¥  Risk identification for large exposures (ÒRIFLEÓ)
Nonstatistical risk measures
Nonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net open positions,

basis point values,option sensitivities,market values,position concentrations

and position turnover.These measures provide granular information on the

FirmÕs market risk exposure.They are aggregated by line of business and by risk

type,and are used for monitoring limits,one-off approvals and tactical control.
Value-at-risk 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs primary statistical risk measure,VAR,estimates the potential

loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment and 

provides a consistent cross-business measure of risk profiles and levels of
diversification.VAR is used for comparing risks across businesses,monitoring

limits,one-off approvals,and as an input to economic capital calculations.

VAR provides risk transparency in a normal trading environment.
Each business day the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VAR calculation 
that includes both its trading and its nontrading activities.VAR for nontrading

activities measures the amount of potential change in fair value of the exposures

related to these activities;however,VAR for such activities is not a measure 

of reported revenue since nontrading activities are generally not marked to

market through earnings.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
76JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
To calculate VAR,the Firm uses historical simulation,which measures risk
across instruments and portfolios in a consistent and comparable way.This

approach assumes that historical changes in market values are representative

of future changes.The simulation is based upon data for the previous twelve
months.The Firm calculates VAR using a one-day time horizon and an expected
tail loss methodology,which approximates a 99% confidence level.This

means the Firm would expect to incur losses greater than that predicted by
VAR estimates only once in every 100 trading days,or about 2.5 times a year.
Trading VAR
IB trading VAR by risk type and credit portfolio VAR
(a)20052004(e)As of or for the year ended AverageMinimum  MaximumAt AverageMinimumMaximumAt 
December 31,(in millions)VARVARVARDecember 31,VARVARVARDecember 31,
By risk type:Fixed income$67$37$110$89
$74$45$118$57
Foreign exchange
23163219
17103328
Equities34156524
28155820
Commodities and other2175034
97188
Less:portfolio diversification
(59)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(63)(c)(43)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(41)(c)Total trading VAR
$86$53$130$103
$85$52$125$72
Credit portfolio VAR
(b)14111715
14111715
Less:portfolio diversification
(12)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(10)(c)(9)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(9)(c)Total trading and credit
portfolio VAR
$88$57$130$108
$90$55$132$78
(a)Trading VAR excludes VAR related to the FirmÕs private equity business and certain exposures used to manage MSRs.For a discu
ssion of Private equity risk management and MSRs,see page 80
and Note 15 on pages 114Ð116 of this Annual Report,respectively.Trading VAR includes substantially all mark-to-market trading a
ctivities in the IB,plus available-for-sale securities held for the IBÕs
proprietary purposes (included within Fixed Income);however,particular risk parameters of certain products are not fully captur
ed,for example,correlation risk.
(b)Includes VAR on derivative credit valuation adjustments,credit valuation adjustment hedges and mark-to-market hedges of the 
accrual loan portfolio,which are all reported in Trading revenue.
This VAR does not include the accrual loan portfolio,which is not marked to market.
(c)Average and period-end VARs are less than the sum of the VARs of its market risk components,which is due to risk offsets res
ulting from portfolio diversification.The diversification effect reflects 
the fact that the risks are not perfectly correlated.The risk of a portfolio of positions is therefore usually less than the su
m of the risks of the positions themselves.
(d)Designated as not meaningful (ÒNMÓ) because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk component
s,and hence it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio 
diversification effect.
(e) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
IBÔs Average Total Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR decreased to $88 million
during2005 compared with $90 million for the same period in 2004.Period-

end VAR increased over the same period to $108 million from $78 million.

Commodities and other VAR increased due to the expansion of the energy

trading business.The decrease in average Total Trading and Credit Portfolio

VAR was driven by increased portfolio diversification as fixed income risk

decreased and foreign exchange,equities and commodities risk increased.

Trading VAR diversification increased to $59 million,or 41% of the sum of

the components,from $43 million,or 34% of the sum of the components.

The diversification effect between the trading portfolio and the credit portfolio

also increased to $12 million,or 12% of the sum of the components,from 

$9 million,or 9% of the sum of the components.In general,over the course

of the year,VAR exposures can vary significantlyas trading positions change,

market volatility fluctuates and diversification benefits change.
VAR backtesting
To evaluate the soundness of its VAR model,the Firm conducts daily backtesting

of VAR against daily financial results,based upon market risk-related revenue.

Market risk-related revenue is defined as the change in value of the mark-to-

market trading portfolios plus any trading-related net interest income,brokerage

commissions,underwriting fees or other revenue.The following histogram

illustrates the daily market risk-related gains and losses for the IB trading

businesses for the year ended December 31,2005.The chart shows that the

IB posted market risk-related gains on 208 out of 260 days in this period,

with 20 days exceeding $100 million.The inset graph looks at those days 

on which the IB experienced losses and depicts the amount by which VAR

exceeded the actual loss on each of those days.Losses were sustained on 52

days,with no loss greater than $90 million,and with no loss exceeding the

VAR measure.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
77< (60)(20) > < (10)(10) > < 00 > < 1010 > < 2020 > < 3030 > < 4040 > < 5050 > < 6060 > < 7070 > < 8080 > < 9090 > < 100100 > < 110 > 140(30) > < (20)(40) > < (30)Daily IB market risk-related gains and losses
                  Year ended December 31, 2005
  Number of trading days
Average daily 
revenue: $37.3 million
  05101520253035$ in millions510
15
20 < 00 > < 2020 > < 4040 > < 6060 > < 80 > 100$ in millionsNumber of trading days 
Daily IB VAR less market risk-related losses
80 > < 100110 > < 120(60) > < (50)(50) > < (40)130 > < 140120 > < 130Loss advisoriesLoss advisories are tools used to highlight to senior management trading

losses above certain levels and are used to initiate discussion of remedies.
Economic value stress testing
While VAR reflects the risk of loss due to unlikely events in normal markets,

stress testing captures the FirmÕs exposure to unlikely but plausible events in
abnormal markets.The Firm conducts economic-value stress tests for both its

trading and its nontrading activities using multiple scenarios for both types of

activities.Periodically,scenarios are reviewed and updated to reflect changes

in the FirmÕs risk profile and economic events.Stress testing is as important 
as VAR in measuring and controlling risk.Stress testing enhances the under-

standing of the FirmÕs risk profile and loss potential,and is used for monitor-
ing limits,one-off approvals and cross-business risk measurement,as well as

an input to economic capital allocation.Based upon the FirmÕs stress scenarios,the stress test loss (pre-tax) in the IB
Õstrading portfolio ranged from $469 million to $1.4 billion,and $202 million

to $1.2 billion,for the years ended December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.

The 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm
Õs results and sixmonths of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
Earnings-at-risk stress testing
The VAR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total economic

sensitivity of the FirmÕs balance sheet to changes in market variables.The
effect of interest rate exposure on reported Net income also is critical.Interest

rate risk exposure in the Firm
Õs core nontrading business activities (i.e.,
asset/liability management positions) results from onÐ and off
Ðbalance sheetpositions.The Firm conducts simulations of changes in NII from its nontrading

activities under a variety of interest rate scenarios,which are consistent with

the scenarios used for economic-value stress testing.Earnings-at-risk tests

measure the potential change in the FirmÕs Net interest income over the next12 months and highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors,such as

the rates themselves (e.g.,the prime lending rate),pricing strategies on

deposits,optionality and changes in product mix.The tests include forecasted

balance sheet changes,such as asset sales and securitizations,as well as 

prepayment and reinvestment behavior.
Earnings-at-risk also can result from changes in the slope of the yield curve,
because the Firm has the ability to lend at fixed rates and borrow at variable

or short-term fixed rates.Based upon these scenarios,the Firm
Õs earningswould be affected negatively by a sudden and unanticipated increase in
short-term rates without a corresponding increase in long-term rates.Conversely,

higher long-term rates generally are beneficial to earnings,particularly when

the increase is not accompanied by rising short-term rates.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
78JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk,and so a
number of alternative scenarios also are reviewed.These scenarios include the

implied forward curve,nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rate shocks

on selected key rates.These scenarios are intended to provide a comprehensive

view of JPMorgan ChaseÕs earnings-at-risk over a wide range of outcomes.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs 12-month pre-tax earnings sensitivity profile as ofDecember 31,2005 and 2004,follows:
Immediate change in rates
(in millions)+200bp+100bp-100bp
December 31,2005$ 265$172$(162)
December 31,2004(557)(164)(180)
The Firm
Õs risk to rising and falling interest rates is due primarily to correspon-
ding increases and decreases in short-term funding costs.
RIFLEIndividuals who manage risk positions,particularly those that are complex,

are responsible for identifying potential losses that could arise from specific
unusual events,such as a potential tax change,and estimating the probabilities

of losses arising from such events.This information is entered into the Firm
ÕsRIFLE system and directed to the appropriate level of management,thereby

permitting the Firm to identify further earnings vulnerability not adequately

covered by standard risk measures.
Risk monitoring and control
Limits
Market risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits.Limits reflect the

FirmÕs risk appetite in the context of the market environment and business
strategy.In setting limits,the Firm takes into consideration factors such as

market volatility,product liquidity,business track record and management

experience.
MRM regularly reviews and updates risk limits,and senior management
reviews and approves risk limits at least once a year.MRM further controls

the FirmÕs exposure by specifically designating approved financial instrumentsand tenors,known as instrument authorities,for each business segment.
The Firm maintains different levels of limits.Corporate-level limits include
VAR,stress and loss advisories.Similarly,line of business limits include VAR,

stress and loss advisories,and are supplemented by nonstatistical measure-
ments and instrument authorities.Businesses are responsible for adhering to

established limits,against which exposures are monitored and reported.Limit

breaches are reported in a timely manner to senior management,and the

affected business segment is required to take appropriate action to reduce

trading positions.If the business cannot do this within an acceptable timeframe,

senior management is consulted on the appropriate action.Qualitative review
MRM also performs periodic reviews as necessary of both businesses and
products with exposure to market risk in order to assess the ability of the

businesses to control their market risk.Strategies,market conditions,product

details and risk controls are reviewed,and specific recommendations for

improvements are made to management.Model review
Some of the FirmÕs financial instruments cannot be valued based upon quoted
market prices but are instead valued using pricing models.Such models are

used for management of risk positions,such as reporting against limits,as well

as for valuation.The Model Risk Group,independent of the businesses and

MRM,reviews the models the Firm uses and assesses model appropriateness

and consistency.The model reviews consider a number of factors about the

modelÕs suitability for valuation and risk management of a particular product,
including whether it accurately reflects the characteristics of the transaction

and its significant risks,the suitability and convergence properties of numerical

algorithms,reliability of data sources,consistency of the treatment with models

for similar products,and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that

cannot be priced from the market.
Reviews are conducted for new or changed models,as well as previously
accepted models,to assess whether there have been any changes in the

product or market that may impact the model
Õs validity and whether there 
are theoretical or competitive developments that may require reassessment 
of the modelÕs adequacy.For a summary of valuations based upon models,
see Critical Accounting Estimates used by the Firm on pages 81
Ð83 of thisAnnual Report.Risk reporting
Nonstatistical exposures,value-at-risk,loss advisories and limit excesses are

reported daily for each trading and nontrading business.Market risk exposure

trends,value-at-risk trends,profit and loss changes,and portfolio concentra-

tions are reported weekly.Stress test results are reported monthly to business

and senior management.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
79Operational risk management 
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes
or systems,human factors or external events.
OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm
Õs businesses and supportactivities.Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways,including errors,

business interruptions,inappropriate behavior of employees and vendors that

do not perform in accordance with outsourcing arrangements.These events can

potentially result in financial losses and other damage to the Firm,including

reputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk,the Firm maintains a system of com-
prehensive policies and a control framework designed to provide a sound and

well-controlled operational environment.The goal is to keep operational risk at

appropriate levels,in light of the Firm
Õs financial strength,the characteristics
of its businesses,the markets in which it operates,and the competitive and

regulatory environment to which it is subject.Notwithstanding these 

control measures,the Firm incurs operational losses.
The Firm
Õs approach to operational risk management is intended to mitigate such
losses by supplementing traditional control-based approaches to operational

risk with risk measures,tools and disciplines that are risk-specific,consistently

applied and utilized firmwide.Key themes are transparency of information,

escalation of key issues and accountability for issue resolution.
During 2005,the Firm substantially completed the implementation of Phoenix,
a new internally-designed operational risk software tool.Phoenix integrates

the individual components of the operational risk management framework

into a unified,web-based tool.Phoenix is intended to enable the Firm to

enhance its reporting and analysis of operational risk data by enabling risk

identification,measurement,monitoring,reporting and analysis to be done in

an integrated manner,thereby enabling efficiencies in the Firm
Õs managementof its operational risk.
For purposes of identification,monitoring,reporting and analysis,the Firm
categorizes operational risk events as follows:
¥  Client service and selection
¥  Business practices
¥  Fraud,theft and malice
¥  Execution,delivery and process management
¥  Employee disputes
¥  Disasters and public safety
¥  Technology and infrastructure failures
Risk identification and measurement
Risk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that 

management believes may give rise to operational losses.
In 2005,JPMorgan Chase substantially completed a multi-year effort to
redesign the underlying architecture of its firmwide self-assessment process.

The goal of the self-assessment process is for each business to identify the

key operational risks specific to its environment and assess the degree to

which it maintains appropriate controls.Action plans are developed for 

control issues identified,and businesses are held accountable for tracking 

and resolving these issues on a timely basis.
All businesses were required to perform self-assessments in 2005.Going 
forward,the Firm will utilize the self-assessment process as a dynamic risk

management tool.
Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data,permitting

analysis of errors and losses as well as trends.Such analysis,performed both

at a line of business level and by risk-event type,enables identification of the

causes associated with risk events faced by the businesses.Where available,

the internal data can be supplemented with external data for comparative

analysis with industry patterns.The data reported will enable the Firm to

back-test against self-assessment results.
Risk reporting and analysis
Operational risk management reports provide timely and accurate information,

including information about actual operational loss levels and self-assessment

results,to the lines of business and senior management.The purpose of these

reports is to enable management to maintain operational risk at appropriate

levels within each line of business,to escalate issues and to provide consistent

data aggregation across the FirmÕs businesses and support areas.
Audit alignment Internal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to provide an

independent assessment of the design and effectiveness of key controls over

the FirmÕs operations,regulatory compliance and reporting.Audit partners
with business management and members of the control community in providing
guidance on the operational risk framework and reviewing the effectiveness

and accuracy of the business self-assessment process as part of its business

unit audits.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
80JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
A firmÕs success depends not only on its prudent management of liquidity,
credit,market and operational risks that are part of its business risks,but

equally on the maintenance among many constituents Ð clients,investors,
regulators,as well as the general public 
Ð of a reputation for business practices
of the highest quality.Attention to reputation has always been a key aspect

of the FirmÕs practices,and maintenance of reputation is the responsibility of
everyone at the Firm.JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individual responsibility 

in many ways,including through the Firm
Õs Code of Conduct,training,main-
taining adherence to policies and procedures and oversight functions that
approve transactions.These oversight functions include a Conflicts Office,

which examines wholesale transactions with the potential to create conflicts

of interest for the Firm.Policy review office
The Firm also has a specific structure to address certain transactions with

clients,especially complex derivatives and structured finance transactions,that

have the potential to adversely affect its reputation.This structure reinforces

the FirmÕs procedures for examining transactions in terms of appropriateness,
ethical issues and reputational risk,and it intensifies the Firm
Õs scrutiny of thepurpose and effect of its transactions from the client
Õs point of view,with the
goal that these transactions are not used to mislead investors or others.

The structure operates at three levels:as part of every business
Õ transaction
approval process;through review by regional Reputation Risk Committees;

and through oversight by the Policy Review Office.
Primary responsibility for adherence to the policies and procedures designed toaddress reputation risk lies with the business units conducting the transactions

in question.The Firm
Õs transaction approval process requires review from,
among others,internal legal/compliance,conflicts,tax and accounting groups.

Transactions involving an SPE established by the Firm receive particular scrutiny

intended to ensure that every such entity is properly approved,documented,

monitored and controlled.Business units are also required to submit to regional Reputation RiskCommittees proposed transactions that may give rise to heightened reputation

risk Ð particularly a client
Õs motivation and its intended financial disclosure of the
transaction.The committees may approve,reject or require further clarificationon

or changes to the transactions.The members of these committeesare senior

representatives of the business and support units in the region.The committees

may escalate transaction review to the Policy Review Office.
The Policy Review Office is the most senior approval level for client transactions
involving reputation risk issues.The mandate of the Office is to opine 

on specific transactions brought by the Regional Committees and consider

changes in policies or practices relating to reputation risk.The head of the

Office consults with the FirmÕs most senior executives on specific topics andprovides regular updates.Aside from governance and guidance on specific

transactions,the objective of the policy review process is to reinforce a 

culture,through a 
Òcase studyÓapproach,that ensures that all employees,
regardless of seniority,understand the basic principles of reputation risk 

control and can recognize and address issues as they arise.
In 2006,this structure,which until now has been focused primarily on
Investment Bank activities,will be expanded to include the activities of

Commercial Banking and the Private Bank.These lines of business will 

implement training and review procedures similar to those in the Investment

Bank and their activities also will be subject to the oversight of the Policy

Review Office.
Fiduciary risk managementThe risk management committees within each line of business include in 

their mandate the oversight of the legal,reputational and,where appropriate,

fiduciary risks in their businesses that may produce significant losses or 
reputational damage.The Fiduciary Risk Management function works with the

relevant line of business risk committees to ensure that businesses providing

investment or risk management products or services that give rise to fiduciary
duties to clients perform at the appropriate standard relative to their fiduciary
relationship with a client.Of particular focus are the policies and practices

that address a businessÕ responsibilities to a client,including client suitability
determination,disclosure obligations,disclosure communications and 

performance expectations with respect to such of the investment and risk
management products or services being provided by the Firm that give rise to
such fiduciary duties.In this way,the relevant line-of-business risk committees,

together with the Fiduciary Risk Management function,provide oversight of

the FirmÕs efforts to monitor,measure and control the risks that may arise in
the delivery of the products or services to clients that give rise to such duties,

as well as those stemming from any of the FirmÕs fiduciary responsibilities toemployees under the FirmÕs various employee benefit plans.
Reputation and fiduciary risk managementPrivate equity risk managementRisk managementThe Firm makes direct principal investments in private equity.The illiquid nature

and long-term holding period associated with these investments differentiates
private equity risk from the risk of positions held in the trading portfolios.

The Firm
Õs approach to managing private equity risk is consistent with the
FirmÕs general risk governance structure.Controls are in place establishing
target levels for total and annual investment in order to control the overall

size of the portfolio.Industry and geographic concentration limits are in place
intended to ensure diversification of the portfolio,and periodic reviews are

performed on the portfolio to substantiate the valuations of the investments.

The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area is responsible for

reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of private equity investments

held by Private Equity.At December 31,2005,the carrying value of the private

equity portfolios of JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners businesses

was $6.2 billion,of which $479 million represented positions traded in the

public market.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
81JPMorgan ChaseÕs accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to
understanding its reported results.The Firm
Õs most complex accounting estimates require managementÕs judgment to ascertain the valuation of
assets and liabilities.The Firm has established detailed policies and control

procedures intended to ensure that valuation methods,including any judgments

made as part of such methods,are well controlled,independently reviewed

and applied consistently from period to period.In addition,the policies and

procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies
occurs in a controlled and appropriate manner.The Firm believes its estimates

for determining the valuation of its assets and liabilities are appropriate.The

following is a brief description of the FirmÕs critical accounting estimatesinvolving significant valuation judgments.
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan ChaseÕs allowance for credit losses covers the wholesale and 
consumer loan portfolios as well as the FirmÕs portfolio of wholesale lending-related commitments.The Allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the

value of the Firm
Õs loan assets for probable credit losses as of the balancesheet date.For a further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing

the FirmÕs Allowance for credit losses,see Note 12 on pages 107
Ð108of this
Annual Report.Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating both the Allowance for loan losses and the

Allowance for lending-related commitments involves significant judgment.

First and foremost,it involves the early identification of credits that are 

deteriorating.Second,it involves management judgment to derive loss factors.

Third,it involves management judgment to evaluate certain macroeconomic

factors,underwriting standards,and other relevant internal and external factors

affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio and to refine loss factors to
better reflect these conditions.
The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine the credit quality of its wholesale
loans.Wholesale loans are reviewed for information affecting the obligor
Õsability to fulfill its obligations.In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan,

among the factors considered include the obligorÕs debt capacity and financialflexibility,the level of the obligor
Õs earnings,the amount and sources for
repayment,the level and nature of contingencies,management strength,and

the industry and geography in which the obligor operates.These factors are

based upon an evaluation of historical and current information,and involve

subjective assessment and interpretation.Emphasizing one factor over another,

or considering additional factors that may be relevant in determining the risk

rating of a particular loan but which are not currently an explicit part of the Firm
Õsmethodology,could impact the risk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.
Management applies its judgment to derive loss factors associated with eachcredit facility.These loss factors are determined by facility structure,collateral

and type of obligor.Wherever possible,the Firm uses independent,verifiable

data or the FirmÕs own historical loss experience in its models for estimatingthese loss factors.Many factors can affect management
Õs estimates of loss,
including volatility of loss given default,probability of default and rating

migrations.Judgment is applied to determine whether the loss given default

should be calculated as an average over the entire credit cycle or at a particular

point in the credit cycle.The application of different loss given default factors

would change the amount of the Allowance for credit losses determined

appropriate by the Firm.Similarly,there are judgments as to which external
data on probability of default should be used and when they should be used.Choosing data that are not reflective of the FirmÕs specific loan portfolio characteristics could also affect loss estimates.
Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors derived,taking into consideration model imprecision,external factors and economic

events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors.The

resultant adjustments to the statistical calculation on the performing portfolio
are determined by creating estimated ranges using historical experience of both

loss given default and probability of default.Factors related to concentrated

and deteriorating industries are also incorporated where relevant.The 

estimated ranges and the determination of the appropriate point within 

the range are based upon management
Õs view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions,quality of underwriting

standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit

quality of the current portfolio.The adjustment to the statistical calculation 

for the wholesale loan portfolio for the period ended December 31,2005,was

$621 million,the higher-end within the range,based upon management
Õsassessment of current economic conditions.
Consumer loansFor scored loans in the consumer lines of business,loss is primarily determined

by applying statistical loss factors and other risk indicators to pools of loans by
asset type.These loss estimates are sensitive to changes in delinquency status,

credit bureau scores,the realizable value of collateral and other risk factors.
Adjustments to the statistical calculation are accomplished in part by analyzingthe historical loss experience for each major product segment.Management

analyzes the range of credit loss experienced for each major portfolio segment,

taking into account economic cycles,portfolio seasoning and underwriting 

criteria,and then formulates a range that incorporates relevant risk factors that

impact overall credit performance.The recorded adjustment to the statistical

calculation for the period ended December 31,2005,was $1.2 billion,based

upon managementÕs assessment of current economic conditions.
Fair value of financial instruments 
A portion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs assets and liabilities are carried at fair value,
including trading assets and liabilities,AFS securities and private equity

investments.Held-for-sale loans,mortgage servicing rights (
ÒMSRsÓ) andcommodities inventory are carried at the lower of fair value or cost.At

December 31,2005,approximately $386 billion of the Firm
Õs assets wererecorded at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the
instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing 

parties,other than in a forced or liquidation sale.The majority of the Firm
Õs assetsreported at fair value are based upon quoted market prices or on internally 

developed models that utilize independently sourced market parameters,

including interest rate yield curves,option volatilities and currency rates.
The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value
of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted market

prices or observable market parameters.For financial instruments that are

actively traded and have quoted market prices or parameters readily available,

there is little-to-no subjectivity in determining fair value.When observable

market prices and parameters do not exist,management judgment is necessary

to estimate fair value.The valuation process takes into consideration 
Critical accounting estimates used by the FirmManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
82JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
factors such as liquidity and concentration concerns and,for the derivatives
portfolio,counterparty credit risk (see the discussion of CVA on page 70 of

this Annual Report).For example,there is often limited market data to rely 

on when estimating the fair value of a large or aged position.Similarly,

judgment must be applied in estimating prices for less readily observable

external parameters.Finally,other factors such as model assumptions,market

dislocations and unexpected correlations can affect estimates of fair value.

Imprecision in estimating these factors can impact the amount of revenue or
loss recorded for a particular position.Trading and available-for-sale portfolios
Substantially all of the FirmÕs securities held for trading and investment 

purposes (ÒlongÓpositions) and securities that the Firm has sold to other 

parties but does not own (ÒshortÓpositions) are valued based upon quoted

market prices.However,certain securities are less actively traded and,therefore,

are not always able to be valued based upon quoted market prices.The 

determination of their fair value requires management judgment,as this

determination may require benchmarking to similar instruments or analyzing
default and recovery rates.Examples include certain collateralized mortgage

and debt obligations and high-yield debt securities.
As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange,the majority of the
FirmÕs derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that

use as their basis readily observable market parameters Ð that is,parameters

that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources,including

industry-pricing services.Certain derivatives,however,are valued based upon

models with significant unobservable market parameters Ð that is,parameters

that must be estimated and are,therefore,subject to management judgment

to substantiate the model valuation.These instruments are normally either

less actively traded or trade activity is one-way.Examples include long-dated

interest rate or currency swaps,where swap rates may be unobservable for

longer maturities,and certain credit products,where correlation and recovery

rates are unobservable.Due to the lack of observable market data,the Firm

defers the initial trading profit for these financial instruments.The deferred 

profit is recognized in Trading revenue on a systematic basis and when observable

market data becomes available.ManagementÕs judgment also includes

recording fair value adjustments (i.e.,reductions) to model valuations to

account for parameter uncertainty when valuing complex or less actively traded

derivative transactions.The following table summarizes the FirmÕs trading and

available-for-sale portfolios by valuation methodology at December 31,2005:
Trading assetsTrading liabilities
SecuritiesSecuritiesAFS
purchased(a)Derivatives
(b)sold(a)Derivatives
(b)securitiesFair value based upon:
Quoted market prices
86%2%97%2%91%
Internal models with significant
observable market parameters
12962976
Internal models with significantunobservable market parameters
22113
Total 
100%100%100%100%100%
(a)Reflected as debt and equity instruments on the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets.
(b)Based upon gross mark-to-market valuations of the FirmÕs derivatives portfolio prior to netting positions pursuant to FIN 39
,as cross-product netting is not relevant to an analysis based upon valua-
tion methodologies.
To ensure that the valuations are appropriate,the Firm has various controls in
place.These include:an independent review and approval of valuation models;

detailed review and explanation for profit and loss analyzed daily and over
time;decomposing the model valuations for certain structured derivative

instruments into their components and benchmarking valuations,where possible,

to similar products;and validating valuation estimates through actual cash

settlement.As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain 

derivative products becomes more transparent,the Firm refines its valuation

methodologies.The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area,a group

independent of the risk-taking function,is responsible for reviewing the accuracy

of the valuations of positions taken within the Investment Bank.
For a discussion of market risk management,including the model review
process,see Market risk management on pages 75Ð78of this Annual Report.

For further details regarding the FirmÕs valuation methodologies,see Note 29

on pages 126Ð128of this Annual Report.
Loans held-for-sale
The fair value of loans in the held-for-sale portfolio is generally based upon

observable market prices of similar instruments,including bonds,credit 

derivatives and loans with similar characteristics.If market prices are not

available,fair value is based upon the estimated cash flows adjusted for credit

risk that is discounted using a rate appropriate for each maturity that incor-

porates the effects of interest rate changes.
Commodities inventory
The majority of commodities inventory includes bullion and base metals

where fair value is determined by reference to prices in highly active and 

liquid markets.The fair value of other commodities inventory is determined

primarily using prices and data derived from less liquid and developing markets

where the underlying commodities are traded.
Private equity investmentsValuation of private investments held primarily by the Private Equity business

within Corporate requires significant management judgment due to the

absence of quoted market prices,inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term

nature of such assets.Private investments are initially valued based upon cost.

The carrying values of private investments are adjusted from cost to reflect

both positive and negative changes evidenced by financing events with third-
party capital providers.In addition,these investments are subject to ongoing

impairment reviews by Private EquityÕs senior investment professionals.A variety

of factors are reviewed and monitored to assess impairment including,but

not limited to,operating performance and future expectations of the particular

portfolio investment,industry valuations of comparable public companies,

changes in market outlook and the third-party financing environment over

time.The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area is responsible for

reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of private investments held by

Private Equity.For additional information about private equity investments,
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
83see the Private equity risk management discussion on page 80 and Note 9 
on pages 103Ð105of this Annual Report.
MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizationsMSRs and certain other retained interests from securitization activities do not
trade in an active,open market with readily observable prices.For example,

sales of MSRs do occur,but the precise terms and conditions are typically not

readily available.Accordingly,the Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs and

certain other retained interests in securitizations using discounted future cash
flow (DCF) models.
For MSRs,the model considers portfolio characteristics,contractually specified
servicing fees and prepayment assumptions,delinquency rates,late charges,

other ancillary revenues,costs to service and other economic factors.During

the fourth quarter of 2005,the Company began utilizing an option adjusted

spread (ÒOASÓ) valuation approach when determining the fair value of MSRs.

This approach,when used in conjunction with the FirmÕs proprietary prepayment

model,projects MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios,which

are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates,to estimate an expected fair value

of the MSRs.The OAS valuation approach is expected to provide improved

estimates of fair value.The initial valuation of MSRs under OAS did not have

a material impact to the FirmÕs financial statements.
For certain other retained interests in securitizations (such as interest only
strips),a single interest rate path DCF model is used and generally includes

assumptions based upon projected finance charges related to the securitized
assets,estimated net credit losses,prepayment assumptions,and contractual

interest paid to the third-party investors.Changes in the assumptions used

may have a significant impact on the FirmÕs valuation of retained interests.
For both MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizations,the Firm
compares its fair value estimates and assumptions to observable market data

where available and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience.

Management believes that the assumptions used to estimate fair values are

supportable and reasonable.
For a further discussion of the most significant assumptions used to value

retained interests in securitizations and MSRs,as well as the applicable stress

tests for those assumptions,see Notes 13 and 15 on pages 108Ð111 and

114Ð116,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Goodwill impairmentUnder SFAS 142,goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for

impairment.The Firm tests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more

frequently if events or circumstances,such as adverse changes in the business

climate,indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test.

Impairment testing is performed at the reporting-unit level (which is generally

one level below the six major business segments identified in Note 31 on
pages 130Ð131of this Annual Report,plus Private Equity which is included 

in Corporate).The first part of the test is a comparison,at the reporting unit

level,of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount,including

goodwill.If the fair value is less than the carrying value,then the second part

of the test is needed to measure the amount of potential goodwill impairment.
The implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is calculated and compared

to the carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the FirmÕs financial records.

If the carrying value of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value

of that goodwill,then the Firm would recognize an impairment loss in the

amount of the difference,which would be recorded as a charge against 

Net income.
The fair values of the reporting units are determined using discounted cash
flow models based upon each reporting unitÕs internal forecasts.In addition,

analysis using market-based trading and transaction multiples,where available,

are used to assess the reasonableness of the valuations derived from the 

discounted cash flow models.
Goodwill was not impaired as of December 31,2005 or 2004,nor was any
goodwill written off due to impairment during the years ended December 31,
2005,2004 and 2003.See Note 15 on page 114 of this Annual Report for

additional information related to the nature and accounting for goodwill and
the carrying values of goodwill by major business segment.
Accounting for income taxes Ð repatriation of foreign earnings
under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004

On October 22,2004,the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the ÒActÓ) was

signed into law.The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S.companies to

repatriate accumulated foreign earnings at a substantially reduced U.S.effective

tax rate by providing a dividends received deduction on the repatriation of

certain foreign earnings to the U.S.taxpayer (the Òrepatriation provisionÓ).

The new deduction is subject to a number of limitations and requirements.
In the fourth quarter of 2005,the Firm applied the repatriation provision to
$1.9 billion of cash from foreign earnings,resulting in a net tax benefit of 

$55 million.The $1.9 billion of cash will be used in accordance with the FirmÕs

domestic reinvestment plan pursuant to the guidelines set forth in the Act.
Accounting for share-based payments
In December 2004,the FASB issued SFAS 123R,which revises SFAS 123 and

supersedes APB 25.In March 2005,the Securities and Exchange Commission

(ÒSECÓ) issued SAB 107 which provides interpretive guidance on SFAS 123R.

Accounting and reporting under SFAS 123R is generally similar to the SFAS

123 approach.However,SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to
employees,including grants of employee stock options,to be recognized in
the income statement based upon their fair values.Pro forma disclosure is no

longer an alternative.SFAS 123R permits adoption using one of two methods

Ð modified prospective or modified retrospective.In April 2005,the SEC

approved a new rule that,for public companies,delays the effective date of

SFAS 123R to no later than January 1,2006.The Firm adopted SFAS 123R 

on January 1,2006,under the modified prospective method.
The Firm continued to account for certain stock options that were outstanding
as of December 31,2002,under APB 25 using the intrinsic value method.

Therefore,compensation expense for some previously granted awards that

was not recognized under SFAS 123 will be recognized commencing January 1,

2006,under SFAS 123R.Had the Firm adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods,

the impact would have approximated that shown in the SFAS 123 pro forma

disclosures in Note 7 on pages 100Ð102of this Annual Report,which presents

net income and earnings per share as if all outstanding awards were

accounted for at fair value.
Prior to adopting SFAS 123R,the FirmÕs accounting policy for share-based
payment awards granted to retirement-eligible employees was to recognize
Accounting and reporting developments
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
84JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
In the normal course of business,JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-traded
commodity derivative contracts.To determine the fair value of these contracts,

the Firm uses various fair value estimation techniques,which are primarily

based upon internal models with significant observable market parameters.

The FirmÕs nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts are primarily

energy-related contracts.The following table summarizes the changes in fair

value for nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts for the year

ended December 31,2005:
For the year ended 
December 31,2005 (in millions)Asset positionLiability position
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at January 1,2005
$1,449$999
Effect of legally enforceable master netting agreements2,3042,233
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at January 1,2005
3,7533,232
Contracts realized or otherwise settled 
during the period(12,589)(10,886)
Fair value of new contracts
37,51830,691
Changes in fair values attributable to 
changes in valuation techniques 

and assumptionsÑÑOther changes in fair value
(11,717)(7,635)
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2005
16,96515,402
Effect of legally enforceable master netting agreements(10,014)(10,078)
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2005
$6,951$5,324
The following table indicates the schedule of maturities of nonexchange-
traded commodity derivative contracts at December 31,2005:
At December 31,2005 (in millions)Asset positionLiability position
Maturity less than 1 year$6,682$6,254
Maturity 1Ð3 years8,2317,590
Maturity 4Ð5 years1,6161,246
Maturity in excess of 5 years436312
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2005
16,96515,402
Effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements(10,014)(10,078)
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2005
$6,951$5,324
Nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts at fair value
compensation cost over the awardsÕ stated service period.For awards granted
to retirement-eligible employees in January 2006,which are subject to SFAS

123R,the Firm will recognize 
compensation expense on the grant date
withoutgiving considerationto the impact of post-
employment restrictions.This will
result in an increase in compensation expense for the fiscal quarterended

March 31,2006 of approximately $300 million,as compared with the

expense that would have been recognized under the FirmÕs prior accounting

policy.The Firm will also accrue in 2006 the estimated cost of stock awards

to be granted to retirement-eligible employees in January 2007.
Accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations
In March 2005,FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the term Òconditional asset

retirement obligationÓas used in SFAS 143.Conditional asset retirement 

obligations are legal obligations to perform an asset retirement activity in
which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional based upon a
future event that may or may not be within the control of the company.

The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even

though uncertainty exists about the timing and/or method of settlement.
FIN 47 clarifies that a company is required to recognize a liability for the 
fair value of the conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the

liability can be reasonably estimated and provides guidance for determining
when a company would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate
the fair value of the obligation.The Firm adopted FIN 47 on December 31,

2005.The implementation did not have a material impact on its financial

position or results of operations.
Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments Ð an Amendment of FASB Statements No.133 and 140

In February 2006,the FASB issued SFAS 155,which applies to certain Òhybrid

financial instruments,Ówhich are instruments that contain embedded derivatives.

The new standard establishes a requirement to evaluate beneficial interests in

securitized financial assets to determine if the interests represent freestanding

derivatives or are hybrid financial instruments containing embedded derivatives

requiring bifurcation.This new standard also permits an election for fair value remeasurement of any
hybrid financial instrument containing an embedded derivative that otherwise

would require bifurcation under SFAS 133.The fair value election can be

applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis to existing instruments at the
date of adoption and can be applied to new instruments on a prospective basis.
Currently,the Firm is planning to adopt this standard effective January 1,2006.
In addition,the Firm is assessing to which qualifying existing and newly issued

instruments it will apply the fair value election.Implementation of this standard

is not expected to have a material impact on the FirmÕs financial position or

results of operations.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
85ManagementÕs report on internal control over financial reporting
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Management of JPMorgan Chase & Co.is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.Internal control

over financial reporting is a process designed by,or under the supervision 

of,the FirmÕs principal executive,principal operating and principal financial

officers,or persons performing similar functions,and effected by JPMorgan

ChaseÕs board of directors,management and other personnel,to provide 

reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the

preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with

accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs internal control over financial reporting includes those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records,that,in

reasonable detail,accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions

of the FirmÕs assets;(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are

recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accor-

dance with generally accepted accounting principles,and that receipts and

expenditures of the Firm are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of JPMorgan ChaseÕs management and directors;and (3) provide reasonable

assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,

use or disposition of the FirmÕs assets that could have a material effect on the

financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations,internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.Also,projections of any evaluation

of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions,or that the degree 

of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has completed an assessment of the effectiveness of the FirmÕs
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,2005.In making

the assessment,management used the framework in ÒInternal Control Ð

Integrated FrameworkÓpromulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring

Organizations of the Treadway Commission,commonly referred to as the

ÒCOSOÓcriteria.
Based upon the assessment performed,management concluded that as of
December 31,2005,JPMorgan ChaseÕs internal control over financial reporting

was effective based upon the COSO criteria.Additionally,based upon manage-

mentÕs assessment,the Firm determined that there were no material weak-

nessesin its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,2005.
ManagementÕs assessment of the effectiveness of the FirmÕs internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31,2005 has been audited by

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,JPMorgan ChaseÕs independent registered public

accounting firm,who also audited the FirmÕs financial statements as of and

for the year ended December 31,2005,as stated in their report which is

included herein.William B.Harrison,Jr.
Chairman of the Board James Dimon
President and Chief Executive OfficerMichael J.Cavanagh
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 24,2006
86JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of JPMorgan Chase & Co.:
We have completed integrated audits of JPMorgan Chase & Co.Õs 2005 and
2004 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over 
financial reporting as of December 31,2005,and an audit of its 2003 

consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).Our opinions 

on JPMorgan Chase & Co.Õs 2005,2004,and 2003 consolidated financial

statements and on its internal control over financial reporting as of December
31,2005,based on our audits,are presented below.
Consolidated financial statementsIn our opinion,the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related

consolidated statements of income,changes in stockholdersÕ equity and cash

flows present fairly,in all material respects,the financial position of the

JPMorgan Chase & Co.and its subsidiaries (the ÒCompanyÓ) at December 31,

2005 and 2004,and the results of their operations and their cash flows for

each of the three years in the period ended December 31,2005 in conformity

with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

These financial statements are the responsibility of the CompanyÕs management.

Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance

with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board

(United States).Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit

to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are

free of material misstatement.An audit of financial statements includes

examining,on a test basis,evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures

in the financial statements,assessing the accounting principles used and 

significant estimates made by management,and evaluating the overall 

financial statement presentation.We believe that our audits provide a 

reasonable basis for our opinion.Internal control over financial reporting
Also,in our opinion,managementÕs assessment,included in the accompanying

ManagementÕs report on internal control over financial reporting,that 

the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting 
as of December 31,2005 based on criteria established in Internal Control Ð

Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations

of the Treadway Commission (COSO),is fairly stated,in all material respects,

based on those criteria.Furthermore,in our opinion,the Company maintained,

in all material respects,effective internal control over financial reporting as of
PRICEWATERHOUSE
COOPERSLLP¥ 300 M
ADISONAVENUE¥ NEWYORK,NY 10017
December 31,2005,based on criteria established in Internal Control Ð
Integrated Framework issued by the COSO.The CompanyÕs management is

responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting.Our responsibility is to express opinions on managementÕs assess-

ment and on the effectiveness of the CompanyÕs internal control over financial

reporting based on our audit.We conducted our audit of internal control over

financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States).Those standards require that we

plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether

effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material

respects.An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining

an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,evaluating 

managementÕs assessment,testing and evaluating the design and operating

effectiveness of internal control,and performing such other procedures as we

consider necessary in the circumstances.We believe that our audit provides a

reasonable basis for our opinions.
A companyÕs internal control over financial reporting is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting

and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accor-

dance with generally accepted accounting principles.A companyÕs internal

control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that,in reasonable detail,accurately

and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary

to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally

accepted accounting principles,and that receipts and expenditures of the

company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of manage-
mentand directors of the company;and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,use,or

disposition of the companyÕs assets that could have a material effect on the

financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations,internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.Also,projections of any evaluation

of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions,or that the degree of

compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
February 24,2006
Report of independent registered public accounting firm
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
87Consolidated statements of incomeJPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
(a)200520042003
RevenueInvestment banking fees$4,088
$3,537$2,890
Trading revenue
5,8603,6124,427
Lending & deposit related fees3,3892,6721,727
Asset management,administration and commissions
10,3908,1656,039
Securities/private equity gains 
4731,8741,479
Mortgage fees and related income1,054806790
Credit card income6,7544,8402,466
Other income2,694830601
Noninterest revenue 34,702
26,33620,419
Interest income45,20030,59524,044
Interest expense25,36913,83411,079
Net interest income19,831
16,76112,965
Total net revenue54,533
43,09733,384
Provision for credit losses3,4832,5441,540
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense18,25514,50611,387
Occupancy expense2,2992,0841,912
Technology and communications expense
3,6243,7022,844
Professional & outside services4,2243,8622,875
Marketing
1,9171,335710
Other expense3,7052,8591,694
Amortization of intangibles1,525946294
Merger costs7221,365Ñ
Litigation reserve charge2,5643,700100
Total noninterest expense38,835
34,35921,816
Income before income tax expense12,215
6,19410,028
Income tax expense3,7321,7283,309
Net income$8,483
$4,466$6,719
Net income applicable to common stock$8,470
$4,414$6,668
Net income per common share
Basic earnings per share$2.43
$1.59$3.32
Diluted earnings per share2.381.553.24
Average basic shares 
3,4922,7802,009
Average diluted shares
3,5572,8512,055
Cash dividends per common share$1.36
$1.36$1.36
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
88JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Consolidated balance sheetsJPMorgan Chase & Co.
At December 31,(in millions,except share data)
20052004AssetsCash and due from banks$36,670
$35,168
Deposits with banks21,66121,680Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
133,981101,354Securities borrowed74,60447,428Trading assets (including assets pledged of $79,657 at December 31,2005,and $77,266 at December 31,2004)
298,377288,814Securities:Available-for-sale (including assets pledged of $17,614 at December 31,2005,and $26,881 at December 31,2004)
47,52394,402Held-to-maturity (fair value:$80 at December 31,2005,and $117 at December 31,2004)
77110Interests in purchased receivables
29,74031,722Loans 419,148402,114Allowance for loan losses 
(7,090)(7,320)Loans,net of Allowance for loan losses
412,058394,794Private equity investments
6,3747,735Accrued interest and accounts receivable
22,42121,409Premises and equipment9,0819,145Goodwill43,62143,203Other intangible assets:Mortgage servicing rights6,4525,080Purchased credit card relationships3,2753,878All other intangibles4,8325,726Other assets48,19545,600Total assets
$1,198,942
$1,157,248
LiabilitiesDeposits:U.S.offices:
Noninterest-bearing$135,599
$129,257
Interest-bearing287,774261,673Non-U.S.offices:
Noninterest-bearing7,4766,931Interest-bearing124,142123,595Total deposits
554,991521,456Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
125,925127,787Commercial paper13,86312,605Other borrowed funds10,4799,039Trading liabilities
145,930151,207Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities (including the Allowance for lending-related
commitments of $400 at December 31,2005,and $492 at December 31,2004)
78,46075,722Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
42,19748,061Long-term debt108,35795,422Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities
11,52910,296Total liabilities
1,091,7311,051,595Commitments and contingencies (see Note 25 of this Annual Report)
StockholdersÕ equity
Preferred stock139339Common stock (authorized 9,000,000,000 shares at December 31,2005 and 2004;issued 3,618,189,597 shares and

3,584,747,502 shares at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively)
3,6183,585Capital surplus74,99472,801Retained earnings33,84830,209Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)(626)(208)Treasury stock,at cost (131,500,350 shares at December 31,2005,and 28,556,534 shares at December 31,2004)
(4,762)(1,073)Total stockholdersÕ equity
107,211105,653Total liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity$1,198,942
$1,157,248
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
89Consolidated statements of changes in stockholdersÕ equity
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
(a)200520042003
Preferred stock
Balance at beginning of year$339
$1,009$1,009
Redemption of preferred stock(200)(670)Ñ
Balance at end of year1393391,009
Common stockBalance at beginning of year3,5852,0442,024
Issuance of common stock337220
Issuance of common stock for purchase accounting acquisitionsÑ1,469Ñ
Balance at end of year3,6183,5852,044
Capital surplusBalance at beginning of year72,80113,51213,222
Issuance of common stock and options for purchase accounting acquisitionsÑ55,867Ñ
Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock for employee stock-based awards and related tax effects
2,1933,422290
Balance at end of year74,99472,80113,512
Retained earningsBalance at beginning of year30,20929,68125,851
Net income8,4834,4666,719
Cash dividends declared:Preferred stock (13)(52)(51)
Common stock ($1.36 per share each year)(4,831)(3,886)(2,838)
Balance at end of year33,84830,20929,681
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Balance at beginning of year(208)(30)1,227
Other comprehensive income (loss)(418)(178)(1,257)
Balance at end of year(626)(208)(30)
Treasury stock,at cost
Balance at beginning of year(1,073)(62)(1,027)
Purchase of treasury stock(3,412)(738)Ñ
Reissuance from treasury stockÑÑ1,082
Share repurchases related to employee stock-based awards
(277)(273)(117)
Balance at end of year (4,762)(1,073)(62)
Total stockholdersÕ equity
$107,211
$105,653$46,154
Comprehensive income
Net income$8,483
$4,466$6,719
Other comprehensive income (loss)(418)(178)(1,257)
Comprehensive income$8,065
$4,288$5,462
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
90JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Consolidated statements of cash flows
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Operating activities
Net income$8,483
$4,466$6,719
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:
Provision for credit losses3,4832,5441,540
Depreciation and amortization4,3183,8353,101
Deferred tax (benefit) provision (1,791)(827)1,428
Investment securities (gains) losses1,336(338)(1,446)
Private equity unrealized (gains) losses
55(766)(77)
Gain on dispositions of businesses(1,254)(17)(68)
Net change in:Trading assets
(3,845)(48,703)(2,671)
Securities borrowed(27,290)(4,816)(7,691)
Accrued interest and accounts receivable
(1,934)(2,391)1,809
Other assets(9)(17,588)(9,848)
Trading liabilities
(12,578)29,76415,769
Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities
5,53213,2775,973
Other operating adjustments
1,267(245)63
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities
(24,227)(21,805)14,601
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banks104(4,196)(1,233)
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
(32,469)(13,101)(11,059)
Other change in loans(148,894)(136,851)(171,779)
Held-to-maturity securities:Proceeds3366221
Available-for-sale securities:
Proceeds from maturities31,05345,19710,548
Proceeds from sales82,902134,534315,738
Purchases (81,749)(173,745)(301,854)
Proceeds due to the sale and securitization of loans126,310108,637170,870
Net cash (used) received in business acquisitions or dispositions
(1,039)13,864(575)
All other investing activities,net
4,7962,5191,541
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities
(18,953)(23,076)12,418
Financing activitiesNet change in:Deposits31,41552,08221,851
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
(1,862)7,065(56,017)
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds
2,618(4,343)555
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and capital debt securities43,72125,34417,195
Repayments of long-term debt and capital debt securities
(26,883)(16,039)(8,316)
Proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
6828481,213
Redemption of preferred stock(200)(670)Ñ
Treasury stock purchased
(3,412)(738)Ñ
Cash dividends paid(4,878)(3,927)(2,865)
All other financing activities,net
3,868(26)133
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities45,06959,596(26,251)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks
(387)185282
Net increase (decrease) in cash and due from banks1,50214,9001,050
Cash and due from banks at the beginning of the year35,16820,26819,218
Cash and due from banks at the end of the year$36,670
$35,168$20,268
Cash interest paid$24,583
$13,384$10,976
Cash income taxes paid $4,758
$1,477$1,337
Note:In 2004,the fair values of noncash assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Merger with Bank One were $320.9 billion
 and $277.0 billion,respectively,and approximately 1,469 million
shares of common stock,valued at approximately $57.3 billion,were issued in connection with the merger with Bank One.
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
91When the SPE does not meet the QSPE criteria,consolidation is assessed pur-
suant to FIN 46R.Under FIN 46R,a VIE is defined as an entity that:(1) lacks

enough equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities
without additional subordinated financial support from other parties;(2) has

equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the

entityÕs operations;and/or (3) has equity owners that do not have an obligation

to absorb or the right to receive the entityÕs losses or returns.
FIN 46R requires a variable interest holder (i.e.,a counterparty to a VIE) to
consolidate the VIE if that party will absorb a majority of the expected losses

of the VIE,receive the majority of the expected residual returns of the VIE,or

both.This party is considered the primary beneficiary.In making this determi-

nation,the Firm thoroughly evaluates the VIEÕs design,capital structure and

relationships among variable interest holders.When the primary beneficiary

cannot be identified through a qualitative analysis,the Firm performs a quan-

titative analysis,which computes and allocates expected losses or residual

returns to variable interest holders.The allocation of expected cash flows in

this analysis is based upon the relative contractual rights and preferences 

of each interest holder in the VIEÕs capital structure.For further details,see

Note 14 on pages 111Ð113 of this Annual Report.
All retained interests and significant transactions between the Firm,QSPEs
and nonconsolidated VIEs are reflected on JPMorgan ChaseÕs Consolidated

balance sheets or in the Notes to consolidated financial statements.
Investments in companies that are considered to be voting-interest entitiesunder FIN 46R in which the Firm has significant influence over operating 

and financing decisions are accounted for in accordance with the equity
method of accounting.These investments are generally included in Other

assets,and the FirmÕs share of income or loss is included in Other income.

For a discussion of private equity investments,see Note 9 on pages 103Ð105

of this Annual Report.
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by the Firm are not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included in the Consolidated 
balance sheets.
Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management 

to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of

assets,liabilities,revenue,expenses and disclosures of contingent assets 

and liabilities.Actual results could be different from these estimates.
Note 1ÐBasis of presentation 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(ÒJPMorgan ChaseÓor the ÒFirmÓ),a financial holding

company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968,is a leading global 

financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the
United States,with operations worldwide.The Firm is a leader in investment

banking,financial services for consumers and businesses,financial transaction

processing,investment management,private banking and private equity.For a

discussion of the FirmÕs business segment information,see Note 31 on pages

130Ð131 of this Annual Report.
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase and its
subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the 

United States of America (ÒU.S.GAAPÓ) and prevailing industry practices.

Additionally,where applicable,the policies conform to the accounting and

reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.
Certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to thecurrent presentation.Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include accounts of JPMorgan Chase

and other entities in which the Firm has a controlling financial interest.All

material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The usual condition for a controlling financial interest is ownership of a
majority of the voting interests of an entity.However,a controlling financial

interest may also exist in entities,such as special purpose entities (ÒSPEsÓ),

through arrangements that do not involve controlling voting interests.
SPEs are an important part of the financial markets,providing market liquidity
by facilitating investorsÕ access to specific portfolios of assets and risks.They

are,for example,critical to the functioning of the mortgage- and asset-

backed securities and commercial paper markets.SPEs may be organized 

as trusts,partnerships or corporations and are typically set up for a single,

discrete purpose.SPEs are not typically operating entities and usually have a

limited life and no employees.The basic SPE structure involves a company

selling assets to the SPE.The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issu-

ing securities to investors.The legal documents that govern the transaction

describe how the cash earned on the assets must be allocated to the SPEÕs

investors and other parties that have rights to those cash flows.SPEs can be

structured to be bankruptcy-remote,thereby insulating investors from the

impact of the creditors of other entities,including the seller of the assets.
There are two different accounting frameworks applicable to SPEs:the quali-
fying SPE (ÒQSPEÓ) framework under SFAS 140;and the variable interest

entity (ÒVIEÓ) framework under FIN 46R.The applicable framework depends

on the nature of the entity and the FirmÕs relation to that entity.The QSPE

framework is applicable when an entity transfers (sells) financial assets to an

SPE meeting certain criteria defined in SFAS 140.These criteria are designed

to ensure that the activities of the entity are essentially predetermined at the
inception of the vehicle and that the transferor of the financial assets cannot

exercise control over the entity and the assets therein.Entities meeting these

criteria are not consolidated by the transferor or other counterparties,as long

as they do not have the unilateral ability to liquidate or to cause the entity 

to no longer meet the QSPE criteria.The Firm primarily follows the QSPE

model for securitizations of its residential and commercial mortgages,credit

card loans and automobile loans.For further details,see Note 13 on pages

108Ð111 of this Annual Report.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
92JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Foreign currency translation
JPMorgan Chase revalues assets,liabilities,revenues and expenses denomi-

nated in foreign currencies into U.S.dollars using applicable exchange rates.
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency financial statements
for U.S.reporting are included in Other comprehensive income (loss) within

StockholdersÕ equity.Gains and losses relating to nonfunctional currency

transactions,including non-U.S.operations where the functional currency is

the U.S.dollar and operations in highly inflationary environments,are reported

in the Consolidated statements of income.
Statements of cash flowsFor JPMorgan ChaseÕs Consolidated statements of cash flows,cash and cash

equivalents are defined as those amounts included in Cash and due from banks.
Significant accounting policiesThe following table identifies JPMorgan ChaseÕs significant accounting 

policies and the Note and page where a detailed description of each policycan be found:Trading activitiesNote 3Page94
Other noninterest revenueNote 4Page95

Pension and other postretirement employee 
benefit plansNote 6Page96
Employee stock-based incentivesNote 7Page  100

Securities and private equity investmentsNote 9Page  103

Securities financing activitiesNote 10Page  105

LoansNote 11Page  106

Allowance for credit lossesNote 12Page  107

Loan securitizationsNote 13Page  108

Variable interest entitiesNote 14Page  111

Goodwill and other intangible assetsNote 15Page  114

Premises and equipmentNote 16Page  116

Income taxesNote 22Page  120

Accounting for derivative instruments
and hedging activitiesNote 26Page  123
OffÐbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guaranteesNote 27Page  124
Fair value of financial instrumentsNote 29Page  126
Note 2ÐBusiness changes and developments
Merger with Bank One Corporation 
Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase (the

ÒMergerÓ) on July 1,2004.As a result of the Merger,each outstanding share

of common stock of Bank One was converted in a stock-for-stock exchange

into 1.32 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase.JPMorgan Chase

stockholders kept their shares,which remained outstanding and unchanged

as shares of JPMorgan Chase following the Merger.Key objectives of the

Merger were to  provide the Firm with a more balanced business mix and

greater geographic diversification.The Merger was accounted for using the

purchase method of accounting,which requires that the assets and liabilities

of Bank One be fair valued as of July 1,2004.The purchase price to complete

the Merger was $58.5 billion.
As part of the Merger,certain accounting policies and practices were conformed,
which resulted in $976 million of charges in 2004.The significant components

of the conformity charges comprised a $1.4 billion charge related to the decer-
tification of the sellerÕs interest in credit card securitizations,and the benefit 

of a $584 million reduction in the allowance for credit losses as a result of 

conforming the wholesale and consumer credit provision methodologies.
The final purchase price of the Merger has been allocated to the assets

acquired and liabilities assumed using their fair values as of the merger date.

The computation of the purchase price and the allocation of the purchase

price to the net assets of Bank One Ð based on their respective fair values 

as of July 1,2004 Ð and the resulting goodwill are presented below.
(in millions,except per share amounts)July 1,2004
Purchase price
Bank One common stock exchanged 1,113
Exchange ratio1.32

JPMorgan Chase common stock issued 1,469

Average purchase price per 
JPMorgan Chase common share
(a)$39.02
$57,336
Fair value of employee stock awards and 
direct acquisition costs1,210Total purchase price$58,546
Net assets acquired:
Bank One stockholdersÕ equity$24,156
Bank One goodwill and other intangible assets(2,754)

Subtotal21,402
Adjustments to reflect assets 
acquired at fair value:
Loans and leases (2,261)

Private equity investments(72)

Identified intangibles 8,665

Pension plan assets(778)

Premises and equipment(417)

Other assets (267)
Amounts to reflect liabilities 
assumed at fair value:
Deposits (373)
Deferred income taxes 932

Other postretirement benefit plan liabilities(49)

Other liabilities(1,162)
Long-term debt(1,234)
24,386Goodwill resulting from Merger(b)$34,160
(a)The value of the FirmÕs common stock exchanged with Bank One shareholders was based
on the average closing prices of the FirmÕs common stock for the two days prior to,and the

two days following,the announcement of the Merger on January 14,2004.
(b)Goodwill resulting from the Merger reflects adjustments of the allocation of the purchase
price to the net assets acquired through June 30,2005.Minor adjustments subsequent to

June 30,2005,are reflected in the December 31,2005 Goodwill balance in Note 15 on

page 114 of this Annual Report.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
93Condensed statement of net assets acquired
The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the fair
value of Bank One net assets as of July 1,2004.
(in millions)July 1,2004
AssetsCash and cash equivalents
$14,669
Securities70,512Interests in purchased receivables
30,184Loans,net of allowance for loan losses
129,650Goodwill and other intangible assets
42,825All other assets47,739Total assets
$335,579
LiabilitiesDeposits$164,848
Short-term borrowings9,811All other liabilities61,494Long-term debt40,880Total liabilities
277,033Net assets acquired$58,546
Acquired,identifiable intangible assets
Components of the fair value of acquired,identifiable intangible assets as of
July 1,2004,were as follows:
Fair valueWeighted averageUseful life
(in millions)life (in years)(in years)
Core deposit intangibles$3,6505.1Up to 10
Purchased credit card relationships3,3404.6Up to 10

Other credit cardÐrelated intangibles2954.6Up to 10
Other customer relationship intangibles8704.6Ð10.5Up to 20
Subtotal8,1555.1Up to 20
Indefinite-lived asset management intangibles510NANA
Total
$8,665
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial 
informationThe following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information
presents the results of operations of the Firm had the Merger taken place at

January 1,2003.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share)20042003
Noninterest revenue$31,175$28,966
Net interest income21,36621,715
Total net revenue52,54150,681
Provision for credit losses2,7273,570
Noninterest expense40,50433,136
Income before income tax expense9,31013,975
Net income$6,544$9,330
Net income per common share:Basic$1.85$2.66

Diluted 1.812.61
Average common shares outstanding:
Basic3,5103,495
Diluted 3,5933,553
Other business eventsCollegiate Funding ServicesOn March 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase acquired,for approximately $663 million,

Collegiate Funding Services,a leader in student loan servicing and consolida-

tion.This acquisition will enable the Firm to create a comprehensive education

finance business.
BrownCo 
On November 30,2005,JPMorgan Chase sold BrownCo,an on-line deep-

discount brokerage business,to E*TRADE Financial for a cash purchase price

of $1.6 billion.JPMorgan Chase recognized an after-tax gain of $752 million.

BrownCoÕs results of operations are reported in the Asset & Wealth Management

business segment;however,the gain on the sale,which is recorded in 

Other income in the Consolidated statements of income,is reported in the

Corporate business segment.
Sears Canada credit card business 
On November 15,2005,JPMorgan Chase purchased Sears Canada Inc.Õs 

credit card operation,including both the private-label card accounts and the

co-branded Sears MasterCard
¨accounts.The credit card operation includes
approximately 10 million accounts with $2.2 billion (CAD$2.5 billion) in 

managed loans.Sears Canada and JPMorgan Chase entered into an ongoing

arrangement under which JPMorgan Chase will offer private-label and co-

branded credit cards to both new and existing customers of Sears Canada.
Chase Merchant Services,Paymentech integration
On October 5,2005,JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corp.completed the 

integrationof the companiesÕ jointly owned Chase Merchant Services and

Paymentech merchant businesses,to be operated under the name of Chase

Paymentech Solutions,LLC.The joint venture is the largest financial transaction

processor in the U.S.for businesses accepting credit card payments via traditional

point of sale,Internet,catalog and recurring billing.As a result of the integration

into a joint venture,Paymentech has been deconsolidated and JPMorgan ChaseÕs

ownership interest in this joint venture is accounted for in accordance with the
equity method of accounting.Neovest Holdings,Inc.
On September 1,2005,JPMorgan Chase completed its acquisition of Neovest

Holdings,Inc.,a provider of high-performance trading technology and direct

market access.This transaction will enable the Investment Bank to offer a

leading,broker-neutral trading platform across asset classes to institutional

investors,asset managers and hedge funds.
Vastera
On April 1,2005,JPMorgan Chase acquired Vastera,a provider of global

trade management solutions,for approximately $129 million.VasteraÕs business

was combined with the Logistics and Trade Services businesses of TSSÕ

Treasury Services unit.Vastera automates trade management processes asso-

ciated with the physical movement of goods internationally;the acquisition

enables TS to offer management of information and processes in support of

physical goods movement,together with financial settlement.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
94JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
JPMorgan Partners
On March 1,2005,the Firm announced that the management team of JPMorgan

Partners,LLC,a private equity unit of the Firm,will become independent when it

completes the investment of the current $6.5 billion Global Fund,which it advises.

The buyout and growth equity professionals of JPMorgan Partners will form a

new independent firm,CCMP Capital,LLC,and the venture professionals will

separately form a new independent firm,Panorama Capital,LLC.JPMorgan Chase

has committed to invest the lesser of $875 million or 24.9% of the limited part-
nership interests in the fund to be raised by CCMP Capital,and has committed

to invest the lesser of $50 million or 24.9% of the limited partnership interests
in the fund to be raised by Panorama Capital.The investment professionals of

CCMP and Panorama will continue to manage the JPMP investments pursuant

to a management agreement with the Firm.CazenoveOn February 28,2005,JPMorgan Chase and Cazenove Group plc (ÒCazenoveÓ)

formed a business partnership which combined CazenoveÕs investment banking

business and JPMorgan ChaseÕs U.K.-based investment banking business in

order to provide investment banking services in the United Kingdom and
Ireland.The new company is called JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings.
Other acquisitionsDuring 2004,JPMorgan Chase purchased the Electronic Financial Services

(ÒEFSÓ) business from Citigroup and acquired a majority interest in hedge
fund manager Highbridge Capital Management (ÒHighbridgeÓ).Note 3ÐTrading activities
Trading assets include debt and equity securities held for trading purposes

that JPMorgan Chase owns (ÒlongÓpositions).Trading liabilities include debt

and equity securities that the Firm has sold to other parties but does not own
(ÒshortÓpositions).The Firm is obligated to purchase securities at a future

date to cover the short positions.Included in Trading assets and Trading liabil-

ities are the reported receivables (unrealized gains) and payables (unrealized

losses) related to derivatives.These amounts include the derivative assets and

liabilities net of cash received and paid,respectively,under legally enforceable

master netting agreements.At December 31,2005,the amount of cash received

and paid was approximately $26.7 billion and $18.9 billion,respectively.At

December 31,2004,the amount of cash received and paid was approximately

$32.2 billion and $22.0 billion,respectively.Trading positions are carried at

fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets.
Trading revenue
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Fixed income and other(b)$4,554
$2,976$4,046
Equities(c)1,271797764
Credit portfolio(d)35(161)(383)
Total 
$5,860
$3,612$4,427
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes bonds and commercial paper and various types of interest rate derivatives 
as well as foreign exchange and commodities.
(c)Includes equity securities and equity derivatives.

(d)Includes credit derivatives.
Trading assets and liabilities
The following table presents the fair value of Trading assets and Trading 
liabilities for the dates indicated:December 31,(in millions)
20052004Trading assets
Debt and equity instruments:
U.S.government and federal agency 
obligations $16,283
$16,867
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise 
obligations 24,17223,513Obligations of state and political subdivisions
9,8873,486Certificates of deposit,bankersÕ acceptances
and commercial paper5,6527,341Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
48,67150,699Corporate securities and other
143,925120,926Total debt and equity instruments
248,590222,832Derivative receivables:
Interest rate 
30,41645,892Foreign exchange 
2,8557,939Equity5,5756,120Credit derivatives
3,4642,945Commodity7,4773,086Total derivative receivables
49,78765,982Total trading assets$298,377
$288,814
Trading liabilities
Debt and equity instruments(a)$94,157
$87,942
Derivative payables:
Interest rate 
28,48841,075Foreign exchange 
3,4538,969Equity11,5399,096Credit derivatives
2,4452,499Commodity5,8481,626Total derivative payables
51,77363,265Total trading liabilities$145,930
$151,207
(a)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Average Trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods indicated:
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Trading assets Ð debt and 
equity instruments$237,370
$200,467$154,597
Trading assets Ð derivative receivables
57,36559,52185,628
Trading liabilities Ð debt and 
equity instruments(b)$93,102
$82,204$72,877
Trading liabilities Ð derivative payables
55,72352,76167,783
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
95Note 4ÐOther noninterest revenue 
Investment banking feesThis revenue category includes advisory and equity and debt underwriting fees.

Advisory fees are recognized as revenue when related services are performed.
Underwriting fees are recognized as revenue when the Firm has rendered all
services to the issuer and is entitled to collect the fee from the issuer,as long

as there are no other contingencies associated with the fee (e.g.,the fee is

not contingent upon the customer obtaining financing).Underwriting fees are

net of syndicate expenses.In addition,the Firm recognizes credit arrangement

and syndication fees as revenue after satisfying certain retention,timing and

yield criteria.The following table presents the components of Investment banking fees:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Underwriting:Equity$864
$780$699
Debt1,9691,8591,549
Total Underwriting
2,8332,6392,248
Advisory1,255898642
Total
$4,088
$3,537$2,890
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Lending & deposit related fees 
This revenue category includes fees from loan commitments,standby letters

of credit,financial guarantees,deposit-related fees in lieu of compensating

balances,cash management-related activities or transactions,deposit

accounts,and other loan servicing activities.These fees are recognized over

the period in which the related service is provided.Asset management,administration and commissions 
This revenue category includes fees from investment management and related

services,custody and institutional trust services,brokerage services,insurance

premiums and commissions and other products.These fees are recognized

over the period in which the related service is provided.Mortgage fees and related income 
This revenue category includes fees and income derived from mortgage origi-

nation,sales and servicing,and includes the effect of risk management activities

associated with the mortgage pipeline,warehouse and the mortgage servicing

rights (ÒMSRsÓ) asset (excluding gains and losses on the sale of Available-for-

sale (ÒAFSÓ) securities).Origination fees and gains or losses on loan sales are

recognized in income upon sale.Mortgage servicing fees are recognized over

the period the related service is provided,net of amortization.Valuation

changes in the mortgage pipeline,warehouse,MSR asset and corresponding

risk management instruments are generally adjusted through earnings as

these changes occur.Net interest income and securities gains and losses on

AFS securities used in mortgage-related risk management activities are not
included in Mortgage fees and related income.For a further discussion of

MSRs,see Note 15 on pages 114Ð116 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income
This revenue category includes interchange income from credit and debit cards,

annual fees,and servicing fees earned in connection with securitization activities.

Volume-related payments to partners and expenses for rewards programs are

also recorded within Credit card income.Fee revenues are recognized as

earned,except for annual fees,which are recognized over a 12-month period.

Expenses related to rewards programs are recorded when earned by the customer.
Credit card revenue sharing agreementsThe Firm has contractual agreements with numerous affinity organizations

and co-brand partners,which grant to the Firm exclusive rights to market to

their members or customers.These organizations and partners provide to the

Firm their endorsement of the credit card programs,mailing lists,and may

also conduct marketing activities and provide awards under the various credit

card programs.The terms of these agreements generally range from 3 to 10

years.The economic incentives the Firm pays to the endorsing organizations

and partners typically include payments based upon new accounts,activation,

charge volumes,and the cost of their marketing activities and awards.
The Firm recognizes the portion of payments based upon new accounts to 
the affinity organizations and co-brand partners,as deferred loan origination

costs.The Firm defers these costs and amortizes them over 12 months.

Payments based upon charge volumes and considered by the Firm as revenue

sharing with the affinity organizations and co-brand partners are deducted

from Credit card income as the related revenue is earned.The Firm expenses

payments based upon marketing efforts performed by the endorsing 

organization or partner to activate a new account as incurred.These costs 

are recorded within Noninterest expense.
Note 5ÐInterest income and interest expense
Details of Interest income and Interest expense were as follows:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Interest income
Loans$26,062
$16,771$11,812
Securities3,1293,3773,542
Trading assets
9,1177,5276,592
Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements4,1251,6271,497
Securities borrowed1,154463323
Deposits with banks680539214
Interests in purchased receivables
93329164
Total interest income
45,20030,59524,044
Interest expense
Interest-bearing deposits10,2954,6303,604
Short-term and other liabilities9,5426,2605,871
Long-term debt4,1602,4661,498
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs1,372478106
Total interest expense
25,36913,83411,079
Net interest income19,831
16,76112,965
Provision for credit losses3,4832,5441,540
Net interest income after provision 
forcredit losses$16,348
$14,217$11,425
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
96JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Note 6ÐPension and other postretirement
employee benefit plansNew U.S.-based postretirement plans were introduced in 2005 after the 
Bank Oneplans were merged into the heritage JPMorgan Chase plans as 

of December 31,2004.
The FirmÕs defined benefit pension plans are accounted for in accordance with
SFAS 87 and SFAS 88.The postretirement medical and life insurance plans are

accounted for in accordance with SFAS 106.
The Firm uses a measurement date of December 31 for pension and other
postretirement employee benefit plans.In addition,as of August 1,2005,the

U.S.postretirement medical and life insurance plan was remeasured to reflect

a mid-year plan amendment and the final Medicare Part D regulations that

were issued on January 21,2005.For the FirmÕs defined benefit pension plan

assets,fair value is used to determine the expected return on pension plan

assets.For the FirmÕs other postretirement employee benefit plan assets,a

calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year period

is used to determine the expected return on other postretirement employee
benefit plan assets.Unrecognized net actuarial gains and losses and prior

service costs associated with the U.S.defined benefit pension plan are amor-

tized over the average future service period of plan participants,which is 

currently 10 years.For other postretirement employee benefit plans,unrecog-

nized gains and losses are also amortized over the average future service

period,which is currently 8 years.However,prior service costs associated with

other postretirement employee benefit plans are recognized over the average

years of service remaining to full eligibility age,which is currently 6 years.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans
The Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S.defined benefit pension plan

that provides benefits to substantially all U.S.employees.The U.S.plan employs

a cash balance formula,in the form of salary and interest credits,to determine

the benefits to be provided at retirement,based upon eligible compensation

and years of service.Employees begin to accrue plan benefits after completing

one year of service,and benefits generally vest after five years of service.The

Firm also offers benefits through defined benefit pension plans to qualifying
employees in certain non-U.S.locations based upon eligible compensation

and years of service.
It is the FirmÕs policy to fund the pension plans in amounts sufficient to meet
the requirements under applicable employee benefit and local tax laws.The

Firm did not make any U.S.pension plan contributions in 2005 and based

upon the current funded status of this plan,the Firm does not expect to make

significant contributions in 2006.In 2004,the Firm made a cash contribution

to its U.S.defined benefit pension plan of $1.1 billion,funding the plan to the

maximum allowable amount under applicable tax law.Additionally,the Firm

made cash contributions totaling $78 million and $40 million to fully fund the
accumulated benefit obligations of certain non-U.S.defined benefit pension

plans as of December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
Postretirement medical and life insurance
JPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and life insurance benefits 

to certain retirees and qualifying U.S.employees.These benefits vary with

length of service and date of hire and provide for limits on the FirmÕs share of

covered medical benefits.The medical benefits are contributory,while the life

insurance benefits are noncontributory.As of August 1,2005,the eligibility

requirements for U.S.employees to qualify for subsidized retiree medical 

coverage were revised and life insurance coverage was eliminated for active

employees retiring after 2005.Postretirement medical benefits also are

offered to qualifying U.K.employees.
In December 2003,the Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 (the ÒActÓ) was enacted.The Act established a

prescription drug benefit under Medicare (ÒMedicare Part DÓ) and a federal

subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit
that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D.The Firm has deter-

mined that benefits provided to certain participants are at least actuarially
equivalent to Medicare Part D and has reflected the effects of the subsidy in

the financial statements and disclosures retroactive to the beginning of 2004
(July 1,2004 for Bank One plans) in accordance with FSP SFAS 106-2.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs U.S.postretirement benefit obligation is partially funded with
corporate-owned life insurance (ÒCOLIÓ) purchased on the lives of eligible

employees and retirees.While the Firm owns the COLI policies,COLI proceeds

(death benefits,withdrawals and other distributions) may be used only to

reimburse the Firm for net postretirement benefit claim payments and related
administrative expenses.The U.K.postretirement benefit plan is unfunded.
The following tables present the funded status and amounts reported on the
Consolidated balance sheets,the accumulated benefit obligation and the

components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated state-
ments of income for the FirmÕs U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and

postretirement benefit plans:
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
97Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.Other postretir
ement benefit plans
(c)(d)December 31,(in millions)
20052004(b)20052004(b)20052004(b)Change in benefit obligationBenefit obligation at beginning of year $(7,594)
$(4,633)
$(1,969)
$(1,659)
$(1,577)
$(1,252)
Merger with Bank OneÑ(2,497)Ñ(25)Ñ(216)Cazenove business partnershipÑÑ(291)ÑÑÑBenefits earned during the year(280)(251)(25)(17)(13)(15)Interest cost on benefit obligations(431)(348)(104)(87)(81)(81)Plan amendmentsÑ70ÑÑ11732Employee contributionsÑÑÑÑ(44)(36)Actuarial gain (loss)(122)(511)(310)(99)21(163)Benefits paid7235556664187167Curtailments2821ÑÑ(9)(8)Special termination benefitsÑÑÑ(12)(1)(2)Foreign exchange impact and other
ÑÑ255(134)5(3)Benefit obligation at end of year$(7,676)
$(7,594)
$(2,378)
$(1,969)
$(1,395)
$(1,577)
Change in plan assetsFair value of plan assets at beginning of year
$9,637
$4,866 
$1,889
$1,603
$1,302
$1,149
Merger with Bank OneÑ3,280Ñ20Ñ98Cazenove business partnershipÑÑ252ÑÑÑActual return on plan assets
7039463081644384Firm contributionsÑ1,100784032Benefits paid(723)(555)(66)(64)(19)(31)Foreign exchange impact and other
ÑÑ(238)126ÑÑFair value of plan assets at end of year
$9,617
(e)$9,637
(e)$2,223
$1,889
$1,329
$1,302
Reconciliation of funded statusFunded status$1,941
$2,043
$(155)
$(80)
$(66)
$(275)
Unrecognized amounts:(a)Net transition asset
ÑÑÑ(1)ÑÑPrior service cost404734(105)(23)Net actuarial loss1,078997599590335321Prepaid benefit cost reported in Other assets $3,059
$3,087
$447
(f)$513
(f)$164
$23
Accumulated benefit obligation$(7,274)
$(7,167)
$(2,303)
$(1,931)
NANA(a) For pension benefit plans,the unrecognized net loss is primarily the result of declines in interest rates in recent years,a
s offset by recent asset gains and amounts recognized through amortization inexpense.Other factors that contribute to this unrecognized amount include demographic experience,which differs from expected,an
d changes in other actuarial assumptions.For other postretirement
benefit plans,the primary drivers of the cumulative unrecognized loss was the decline in the discount rate in recent years and 
the medical trend,which was higher than expected.These losses have
been offset somewhat by the recognition of future savings attributable to Medicare Part D subsidy payments.
(b) Effective July 1,2004,the Firm assumed the obligations of heritage Bank OneÕs pension and postretirement plans.These plans 
were similar to those of JPMorgan Chase and were merged into theFirmÕs plans effective December 31,2004.
(c)The Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 resulted in a $35 million reduction in the Accumula
ted other postretirement benefit obligation as of January 1,2004.
During 2005,an additional $116 million reduction was reflected for recognition of the final Medicare Part D regulations issued 
on January 21,2005.
(d) Includes postretirement benefit obligation of $44 million and $43 million and postretirement benefit liability (included in
 Accrued expenses) of $50 million and $57 million at December 31,2005
and 2004,respectively,for the U.K.plan,which is unfunded.
(e) At December 31,2005 and 2004,approximately $405 million and $358 million,respectively,of U.S.plan assets relate to surplus 
assets of group annuity contracts.
(f) At 
December 31,2005 and 2004,Accrued expenses related to non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans that JPMorgan Chase elected not to 
prefund fully totaled $164 million and $124 million,respectively.
Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.Other postretirement benefit 
plansFor the year ended December 31,(in millions)
20052004(a)2003(b)20052004(a)2003(b)2005(c)2004(a)(c)2003(b)Components of net periodic benefit costBenefits earned during the period
$280
$251$180
$25
$17$16
$13
$15$15
Interest cost on benefit obligations431348262
1048774
818173
Expected return on plan assets(694)(556)(322)
(109)(90)(83)
(90)(86)(92)
Amortization of unrecognized amounts:
Prior service cost5136
11Ñ(10)Ñ1Net actuarial loss42362
384435
12ÑÑCurtailment (gain) loss272ÑÑ8(17)82Settlement (gain) lossÑÑÑÑ(1)Ñ
ÑÑÑSpecial termination benefitsÑÑÑÑ11Ñ
12ÑReported net periodic benefit costs$28
$86$190
$59
$69$50
$(10)
$20$(1)
(a)Effective July 1,2004,the Firm assumed the obligations of heritage Bank OneÕs pension and postretirement plans.These plans w
ere similar to those of JPMorgan Chase and were merged into theFirmÕs plans effective December 31,2004.
(b)Heritage JPMorgan Chase results only for 2003.

(c)The Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 resulted in a $15 million and $5 million reduction 
in 2005 and 2004,respectively,in net periodic benefit cost.
The impact on 2005 cost was higher as a result of the final Medicare Part D regulations issued on January 21,2005.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
98JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
U.S.Non-U.S.
For the year ended December 31,
2005200420052004Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations
Discount rate:
Pension
5.70%5.75%2.00-4.70%2.00-5.30%Postretirement benefit
5.655.754.75.3Rate of compensation increase4.004.503.00-3.751.75-3.75U.S.Non-U.S.
For the year ended December 31,
200520042003
(b)200520042003
(b)Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net
periodic benefit costsDiscount rate 
5.75%(a)6.00%6.50%
2.00-5.30%2.00-5.75%1.50-5.60%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets:
Pension
7.507.50-7.758.00
3.25-5.753.00-6.502.70-6.50
Postretirement benefit
4.75-7.004.75-7.008.00
NANANA
Rate of compensation increase4.004.25-4.504.50
1.75-3.751.75-3.751.25-3.00
(a)The postretirement plan was remeasured as of August 1,2005,and a rate of 5.25% was used from the period of August 1,2005,thr
ough December 31,2005.
(b)Heritage JPMorgan Chase results only for 2003.
long-term rate of return on U.K.plan assets is an average of projected long-
term returns for each asset class,selected by reference to the yield on long-term

U.K.government bonds and AA-rated long-term corporate bonds,plus an

equity risk premium above the risk-free rate.
In 2005,the discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation under
the U.S.pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans was selected

by reference to the yield on a portfolio of bonds whose redemptions and
coupons closely match each of the planÕs projected cash flows;such portfolio

is derived from a broad-based universe of high quality corporate bonds as 

of the measurement date.In years in which this hypothetical bond portfolio 

generates excess cash,such excess is assumed to be reinvested at the one-

year forward rates implied by the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve published

as of the measurement date.Prior to 2005,discount rates were selected 

by reference to the year-end MoodyÕs corporate AA rate,as well as other

high-quality indices with a duration that was similar to that of the respective

planÕs benefit obligations.The discount rate for the U.K.pension and other

postretirement employee benefit plans was determined by matching the dura-

tion of the FirmÕs obligations with the corresponding duration from the yield

curve of the year-end iBoxx £ corporate AA 15-year-plus bond index.
The following tables present the weighted-average annualized actuarial
assumptions for the projected and accumulated benefit obligations,and the

components of net periodic benefit costs for the FirmÕs U.S.and non-U.S.

defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans,as of year-end.
JPMorgan Chase has a number of other defined benefit pension plans (i.e.,

U.S.plans not subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security

Act).The most significant of these plans is the Excess Retirement Plan,pur
suantto which certain employees earn service credits on compensation amounts
above the maximum stipulated by law.This plan is a nonqualified,noncon-

tributory U.S.pension plan with an unfunded liability at December 31,2005

and 2004,in the amount of $273 million and $292 million,respectively.

Compensation expense related to this pension plan totaled $21 million in
2005,$28 million in 2004 and $19 million in 2003.
Plan assumptionsJPMorgan ChaseÕs expected long-term rate of return for U.S.pension and

other postretirement employee benefit plan assets is a blended average of the

investment advisorÕs projected long-term (10 years or more) returns for the

various asset classes,weighted by the portfolio allocation.Asset-class returns

are developed using a forward-looking building-block approach and are not

based strictly upon historical returns.Equity returns are generally developed

as the sum of inflation,expected real earnings growth and expected long-

term dividend yield.Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of infla-

tion,real bond yield and risk spread (as appropriate),adjusted for the expected

effect on returns from changing yields.Other asset-class returns are derived

from their relationship to the equity and bond markets.
In the U.K.,which represents the most significant of the non-U.S.pension
plans,procedures similar to those in the U.S.are used to develop the expected

long-term rate of return on pension plan assets,taking into consideration

local market conditions and the specific allocation of plan assets.The expected
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
99JPMorgan ChaseÕs U.S.pension and other postretirement benefit expenses are
most sensitive to the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.With 

all other assumptions held constant,a 25Ðbasis point decline in the expected

long-term rate of return on U.S.plan assets would result in an increase of

approximately $26 million in 2006 U.S.pension and other postretirement 

benefit expenses.A 25Ðbasis point decline in the discount rate for the U.S.

plans would result in an increase in 2006 U.S.pension and other postretirement

benefit expenses of approximately $20 million and an increase in the related

projected benefit obligations of approximately $233 million.A 25-basis point

decline in the discount rates for the non-U.S.plans would result in an increase

in the 2006 non-U.S.pension and other postretirement benefit expenses of 

$12 million.A 25-basis point increase in the interest crediting rate would result

in an increase in 2006 U.S.pension expense of approximately $18 million.
Investment strategy and asset allocation
The investment policy for the FirmÕs postretirement employee benefit plan

assets is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate to the respective
planÕs needs and goals,using a global portfolio of various asset classes 

diversified by market segment,economic sector,and issuer.Specifically,the

goal is to optimize the asset mix for future benefit obligations,while managing

various risk factors and each planÕs investment return objectives.For example,

long-duration fixed income securities are included in the U.S.qualified pension

planÕs asset allocation,in recognition of its long-duration obligations.Plan

assets are managed by a combination of internal and external investment
managers and,on a quarterly basis,are rebalanced to target,to the extent

economically practical.
The FirmÕs U.S.pension plan assets are held in various trusts and are invested
in well-diversified portfolios of equities (including U.S.large and small capital-

ization and international equities),fixed income (including corporate and 

government bonds),Treasury inflation-indexed and high-yield securities,cash

equivalents,and other securities.Non-U.S.pension plan assets are held in 

various trusts and are similarly invested in well-diversified portfolios of equity,

fixed income and other securities.Assets of the FirmÕs COLI policies,which 

are used to fund partially the U.S.postretirement benefit plan,are held in

separate accounts with an insurance company and are invested in equity and

fixed income index funds.In addition,tax-exempt municipal debt securities,

held in a trust,are used to fund the U.S.postretirement benefit plan.As of

December 31,2005,the assets used to fund the FirmÕs U.S.and non-U.S.

defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans do not include
JPMorgan Chase common stock,except in connection with investments in

third-party stock-index funds.
The following tables present JPMorgan ChaseÕs assumed weighted-average
medical benefits cost trend rate,which is used to measure the expected cost

of benefits at year-end,and the effect of a one-percentage-point change in

the assumed medical benefits cost trend rate.
December 31,20052004(a)2003(b)Health care cost trend rate assumed 
for next year10%10%10%
Rate to which cost trend rate is assumed 
to decline (ultimate trend rate)
555Year that rate reaches ultimate trend rate
201220112010
(in millions)1-Percentage- 1-Percentage- 
For the year ended December 31,2005point increase point decrease 
Effect on total service and interest costs$4$(3)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation64(55)(a)Effective July 1,2004,the Firm assumed the obligations of heritage Bank OneÕs pension
and postretirement plans.These plans were similar to those of JPMorgan Chase and were

merged into the FirmÕs plans effective December 31,2004.
(b)2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
At December 31,2005,the Firm reduced the discount rate used to determine
its U.S.benefit obligations to 5.70% for the pension plan and to 5.65% for the

postretirement benefits plans from the prior year rate of 5.75% for both plans.

The Firm also changed the health care benefit obligation trend assumptionto

10% for 2006,grading down to an ultimate rate of 5% in 2013.The 2006

expected long-term rate of return on its U.S.pension plan assets remained at

7.50%.The 2006 expected long-term rate of return on the FirmÕs COLI post-

retirement plan assets remained at 7.00%;however,with the merger of Bank

OneÕs other postretirement plan assets,the FirmÕs overall expected long-term

rate of return on U.S.postretirement employee benefit plan assets decreased

to 6.84% and 6.80% in 2005 and 2004,respectively,to reflect a weighted

average expected rate of return for the merged plan.The interest crediting rate

assumption used to determine pension benefits changed to 5.00% from 4.75%
in 2005,primarilydue to changes in market interest rates which will result in

additional expense of $18 million.The changes as of December 31,2005,to

the discount rates are expected to increase 2006 U.S.pension and other

postretirement benefit expenses by approximately $5 million and to the non-

U.S.pension and other postretirementbenefit expenses by $23 million.The rate

of compensation increase assumption of 4.00% at December 31,2005,reflects

the consolidationof the prior JPMorgan Chase and Bank One age-weighted

increase assumptions;the impact to expense is not expected to be material.
The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation at December 31 for the years indicated,and the respective ta
rget allocation by asset category,
for the FirmÕs U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans.
Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.
(a)Postretirement benefit plans
(b)Target% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assets
December 31,Allocation
20052004Allocation
20052004Allocation
20052004Asset categoryDebt securities30%
33%38%74%
75%76%50%
54%54%Equity securities55
575325
242450
4646Real estate5
6511ÑÑÑÑOther10
44ÑÑÑÑÑÑTotal100%
100%100%100%
100%100%100%
100%100%(a)Represents the U.K.defined benefit pension plan only,as plans outside the U.K.are not significant.
(b)Represents the U.S.postretirement benefit plan only,as the U.K.plan is unfunded.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
100JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Defined contribution plansJPMorgan Chase offers several defined contribution plans in the U.S.and 

certain non-U.S.locations.The most significant of these plans is the 401(k)

Savings Plan,which covers substantially all U.S.employees.The 401(k)

Savings Plan allows employees to make pre-tax contributions to tax-deferred

investment portfolios.The JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Fund within the

401(k) Savings Plan is a nonleveraged employee stock ownership plan.The

Firm matches eligible employee contributions up to a certain percentage of
benefits-eligible compensation per pay period,subject to plan and legal limits.

Employees begin to receive matching contributions after completing a specified
service requirement and are immediately vested in such company contributions.

The FirmÕs defined contribution plans are administered in accordance with

applicable local laws and regulations.Compensation expense related to 

these plans totaled $392 million in 2005,$317 million in 2004 and $240

million in 2003.Note 7 Ð Employee stock-based incentivesEffective January 1,2003,JPMorgan Chase adopted SFAS 123 using the

prospective transition method.SFAS 123 requires all stock-based compensation

awards,including stock options and stock-settled stock appreciation rights

(ÒSARsÓ),to be accounted for at fair value.The Firm currently uses the Black-

Scholes valuation model to estimate the fair value of stock options and SARs.

Stock options that were outstanding as of December 31,2002,continue 

to be accounted for under APB 25 using the intrinsic value method.Under

this method,no expense is recognized for stock options or SARs granted at

the stock price on grant date,since such options have no intrinsic value.

Compensation expense for restricted stock and restricted stock units (ÒRSUsÓ)
is measured based upon the number of shares granted and the stock price at

the grant date.Compensation expense is recognized in earnings over the

required service period.In connection with the Merger in 2004,JPMorgan Chase converted all out-
standing Bank One employee stock-based awards at the merger date,and

those awards became exercisable for or based upon JPMorgan Chase common

stock.The number of awards converted,and the exercise prices of those

awards,was adjusted to take into account the Merger exchange ratio of 1.32.
On December 16,2004,the FASB issued SFAS 123R,which revises SFAS 123
and supersedes APB 25.In March 2005,the SEC issued SAB 107,which 

provides interpretive guidance on SFAS 123R.Accounting and reporting under

SFAS 123R is generally similar to the SFAS 123 approach.However,SFAS 123R
requires all share-based payments to employees,including grants of employee
stock options and SARs,to be recognized in the income statement based

upon their fair values.Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative.SFAS

123R permits adoption using one of two methods Ñ modified prospective 
or modified retrospective.In April 2005,the U.S.Securities and Exchange

Commission approved a new rule that,for public companies,delayed the

effective date of SFAS 123R to no later than January 1,2006.The Firm adopted

SFAS 123R on January 1,2006,under the modified prospective method.
Key employee stock-based awards
In 2005,JPMorgan Chase granted long-term stock-based awards under the

1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended (Òthe 1996 PlanÓ) until May

2005 and under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (Òthe 2005 PlanÓ) 

thereafter to certain key employees.These two plans,plus prior Firm plans

and plans assumed as the result of acquisitions,constitute the FirmÕs plans

(ÒLTI PlansÓ).The 2005 Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors on 

March 15,2005,and became effective on May 17,2005,after approval by

shareholders at the annual meeting.The 2005 Plan replaces three existing

stock compensation plansÑthe 1996 Plan and two non-shareholder
approved plansÑall of which expired in May 2005.Under the terms of the

2005 Plan,275 million shares of common stock are available for issuance

during its five-year term.The 2005 Plan is the only active plan under which

the Firm is currently granting stock-based incentive awards.
In 2005,15.5 million SARs settled only in shares and 1.7 million nonqualified
stock options were granted.Under the LTI Plans,stock options and SARs are

granted with an exercise price equal to JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock

price on the grant date.Generally,options and SARs cannot be exercised until

at least one year after the grant date and become exercisable over various

periods as determined at the time of the grant.These awards generally expire

10 years after the grant date.
In December 2005,the Firm accelerated the vesting of approximately 41 million
unvested,out-of-the-money employee stock options granted in 2001 under

the Growth and Performance Incentive Program (ÒGPIPÓ),which were scheduled

to vest in January 2007.These options were not modified other than to 

accelerate vesting.The related expense was approximately $145 million,and

was recognized as compensation expense in the fourth quarter of 2005.The

Firm believes that at the time the options were accelerated they had limited

economic value since the exercise price of the accelerated options was

$51.22 and the closing price of the FirmÕs common stock on the effective

date of the acceleration was $39.69.
Estimated future benefit payments 
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid,which include the effect of expected future service,for the y
ears indicated.The postretirement
medical and life insurance payments are net of expected retiree contributions.
Non-Other postretirement
Year ended December 31,U.S.pensionU.S.pensionbenefits before
(in millions)benefitsbenefitsMedicare Part D subsidyMedicare Part D subsidy
2006$558$67$124$14
20075507012715

20085657412716

20095847712817

20106008112919
Years 2011Ð20153,266396633111
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
101The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs option and SAR activity under the LTI Plans during the last three ye
ars:200520042003
Year ended December 31,
(a)Number ofWeighted-averageNumber of Weighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-average
(Options/SARs in thousands)options/SARsexercise priceoptions/SARsexercise priceoptionsexercise price
Outstanding,January 1
376,330$37.59
294,026$39.88298,731$40.84
Granted
17,24835.55
16,66739.7926,75122.15
Bank One Conversion,July 1
NANA
111,28729.63NANA
Exercised(26,731)24.28
(27,763)25.33(14,574)17.47
Canceled(28,272)44.77
(17,887)46.68(16,882)47.57
Outstanding,December 31
338,575$37.93
376,330$37.59294,026$39.88
Exercisable,December 31
286,017$38.89
246,945$36.82176,163$37.88
(a)2004 includes six months of awards for the combined Firm and six months of awards for heritage JPMorgan Chase.2003 reflects 
the awards for heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Restricted stock and RSUs are granted by JPMorgan Chase at no cost to the
recipient.These awards are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have

lapsed,including continued employment for a specified period.The recipient

of a share of restricted stock is entitled to voting rights and dividends on the
common stock.An RSU entitles the recipient to receive a share of common

stock after the applicable restrictions lapse;the recipient is entitled to receive

cash payments equivalent to any dividends paid on the underlying common

stock during the period the RSU is outstanding.Effective January 2005,the

equity portion of the FirmÕs annual incentive awards were granted primarily 

in the form of RSUs.
The vesting of certain awards issued prior to 2002 is conditioned upon certain

service requirements being met and JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock reaching

and sustaining target prices within a five-year performance period.During

2002,it was determined that it was no longer probable that the target stock

prices related to forfeitable awards granted in 1999,2000,and 2001 would

be achieved within their respective performance periods,and accordingly,

previously accrued expenses were reversed.The target stock prices for 

these awards range from $73.33 to $85.00.These awards were forfeited as

follows:1.2 million shares granted in 1999 were forfeited in January 2004;

and 1.2 million shares granted in 2000 were forfeited in January 2005.

Additionally,1.2 million shares granted in 2001 were forfeited in January 2006.
Broad-based employee stock options
No broad-based employee stock option grants were made in 2005.Prior

awards were granted by JPMorgan Chase under the Value Sharing Plan,a

non-shareholder-approved plan.The exercise price is equal to JPMorgan

ChaseÕs common stock price on the grant date.The options become exercisable

over various periods and generally expire 10 years after the grant date.
The following table details the distribution of options and SARs outstanding under the LTI Plans at December 31,2005:
Options/SARs outstandingOptions/SARs exercisable
(Options/SARs in thousands)Weighted-averageWeighted-average remainingWeighted-average
Range of exercise pricesOutstandingexercise pricecontractual life (in years)Exercisableexercise price
$7.27Ð$20.002,504$19.120.82,503$19.12
$20.01Ð$35.00125,42228.025.888,41827.22
$35.01Ð$50.00135,26340.044.9119,71040.13
$50.01Ð$63.4875,38651.274.875,38651.27
Total
338,575$37.935.2286,017$38.89
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs restricted stock
and RSU activity under the LTI Plans during the last three years:
(in thousands)Number of restricted stock/RSUs
Year ended December 31,
(a)200520042003
Outstanding,January 1
85,09985,52755,886
Granted
38,11532,51444,552
Bank One conversionNA15,116NA
Lapsed(b)(30,413)(43,349)(12,545)
Forfeited
(8,197)(4,709)(2,366)
Outstanding,December 31
84,60485,09985,527
(a)2004 includes six months of awards for the combined Firm and six months of awards for
heritage JPMorgan Chase.2003 reflects the awards for heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Lapsed awards represent both restricted stock for which restrictions have lapsed and RSUs
that have been converted into common stock.Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
102JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The following table details the distribution of broad-based employee stock options and SARs outstanding at December 31,2005:
Options/SARs outstandingOptions/SARs exercisable
(Options/SARs in thousands)Weighted-averageWeighted-average remainingWeighted-average
Range of exercise pricesOutstandingexercise pricecontractual life (in years)Exercisableexercise price
$20.01Ð$35.00
15,200$25.014.310,490$26.42
$35.01Ð$50.00
70,08841.184.541,99043.72
$50.01Ð$51.22
20,29451.225.111251.22
Total
105,582$40.784.652,592$40.29
Comparison of the fair and intrinsic value measurement methods
Pre-tax employee stock-based compensation expense related to the LTI plans

totaled $1.6 billion in 2005,$1.3 billion in 2004 and $919 million in 2003.
The following table presents net income (after-tax) and basic and diluted
earnings per share as reported,and as if all outstanding awards were

accounted for at fair value:
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except per share data)
200520042003
Net income as reported$8,483
$4,466$6,719
Add:Employee stock-based 
compensation expense 
originally included in 
reported net income938778551
Deduct:Employee stock-based 
compensation expense
determined under the fair value method for all awards
(1,015)(960)(863)
Pro forma net income$8,406
$4,284$6,407
Earnings per share:Basic:As reported
$2.43
$1.59$3.32
Pro forma2.401.523.16
Diluted:As reported
$2.38
$1.55$3.24
Pro forma2.361.483.09
(a)2004 results include six months of awards for the combined FirmÕs results and six months of
heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs broad-based employee stock option plans and SAR activity during the 
past three years:Year ended December 31,
200520042003
Number ofWeighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-average
(Options/SARs in thousands)options/SARsexercise priceoptions/SARsexercise priceoptionsexercise price
Outstanding,January 1
112,184$40.42
117,822$39.11113,155$40.62
Granted
ÑÑ6,32139.9612,84621.87
Exercised(2,000)24.10
(5,960)15.26(2,007)13.67
Canceled(4,602)39.27
(5,999)39.18(6,172)37.80
Outstanding,December 31
105,582$40.78
112,184$40.42117,822$39.11
Exercisable,December 31
52,592$40.29
30,082$36.3336,396$32.88
The following table presents JPMorgan ChaseÕs weighted-average,
grant-date fair values for the employee stock-based compensation awards

granted,and the assumptions used to value stock options and SARs under

the Black-Scholes valuation model:
Year ended December 31,
(a)200520042003
Weighted-average grant-date fair value
Stock options:Key employee
$10.44
$13.04$5.60
Broad-based employeeNA10.714.98
Converted Bank One optionsNA14.05NA
Restricted stock and RSUs (all payable solely in stock)
37.3539.5822.03
Weighted-average annualized
stock option valuation assumptionsRisk-free interest rate
4.25%3.44%3.19%
Expected dividend yield(b)3.793.595.99
Expected common stock price volatility374144
Assumed weighted-average expected
life of stock options (in years)
Key employee
6.86.86.8
Broad-based employeeNA3.83.8
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Based primarily upon historical data at the grant dates.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
103Note 9ÐSecurities and 
private equity investmentsSecurities are classified as AFS,Held-to-maturity (ÒHTMÓ) or Trading.Trading
securities are discussed in Note 3 on page 94 of this Annual Report.Securities

are classified as AFS when,in managementÕs judgment,they may be sold in

response to or in anticipation of changes in market conditions,or as part of

the FirmÕs management of its structural interest rate risk.AFS securities are

carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets.Unrealized gains and

losses after SFAS 133 valuation adjustments are reported as net increases or

decreases to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).The specific

identification method is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS

securities,which are included in Securities/private equity gains on the

Consolidated statements of income.Securities that the Firm has the positive

intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as HTM and are carried at
amortized cost on the Consolidated balance sheets.
The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS securities and
private equity gains (losses):
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200520042003
Realized gains$302
$576$2,123
Realized losses(1,638)(238)(677)
Net realized securities gains (losses)(1,336)3381,446
Private equity gains 
1,8091,53633
Total Securities/private 
equity gains $473
$1,874$1,479
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Note 8 Ð Noninterest expense
Merger costs
Costs associated with the Merger were reflected in the Merger costs caption
of the Consolidated statements of income.A summary of such costs,by

expense category,is shown in the following table for 2005 and 2004.There

were no such costs in 2003.Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20052004(a)Expense categoryCompensation$238
$467
Occupancy(77)448Technology and communications and other
561450Total
(b)$722
$1,365
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)With the exception of occupancy-related write-offs,all of the costs in the table require the
expenditure of cash.The table below shows the change in the liability balance related to the costs
associated with the Merger.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20052004(a)Liability balance,beginning of period
$952
$ÑRecorded as merger costs7221,365Recorded as goodwill261,028Liability utilized (903)(1,441)Total
$797
$952
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and held-to-maturity securities were as follows for the dates indicated:
20052004GrossGrossGrossGross
AmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFairAmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFair
December 31,(in millions)costgainslossesvaluecostgainslossesvalue
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
U.S.treasuries
$4,245$24$2$4,267
$13,621$7$222$13,406
Mortgage-backed securities
803Ñ83
2,40541172,429
Agency obligations
16516Ñ181
12ÑÑ12
Collateralized mortgage obligations
4ÑÑ4
714471
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations
22,604959622,017
46,14314259345,692
Obligations of state and political subdivisions712217726
2,74812682,866
Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
5,51212185,506
7,90159387,922
Corporate debt securities
5,75439745,719
7,007127187,116
Equity securities3,17911073,282
5,81039145,835
Other,primarily asset-backed securities
(a)5,73823235,738
9,10325759,053
Total available-for-sale securities
$47,993$257$727$47,523
$94,821$570$989$94,402
Held-to-maturity securities(b)Total held-to-maturity securities 
$77$3$Ñ$80
$110$7$Ñ$117
(a)Includes collateralized mortgage obligations of private issuers,which generally have underlying collateral consisting of obl
igations of the U.S.government and federal agencies and corporations.
(b)Consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
104JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The following table presents the fair value and unrealized losses for AFS securities by aging category at December 31:
Securities with unrealized lossesLess than 12 months 12 months or more    
Total
GrossGrossTotalGross
FairunrealizedFairunrealizedFairunrealized
2005 (in millions) valuelossesvaluelossesvaluelosses
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
U.S.treasuries
$3,789$1$85$1$3,874$2
Mortgage-backed securities
ÑÑ47Ñ47Ñ
Agency obligations7Ñ13Ñ20Ñ
Collateralized mortgage obligations
15Ñ30Ñ45Ñ
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations
10,60724211,00735421,614596
Obligations of state and political subdivisions237310743447
Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
2,380177112,45118
Corporate debt securities
3,07652678223,75474
Equity securities1,83872Ñ1,8407
Other,primarily asset-backed securities
7781437091,14823
Total securities with unrealized losses
$22,727$336$12,410$391$35,137$727
Securities with unrealized lossesLess than 12 months 12 months or more    
Total
GrossGrossTotalGross
FairunrealizedFairunrealizedFairunrealized
2004 (in millions) valuelossesvaluelossesvaluelosses
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
U.S.treasuries$10,186$154$940$68$11,126$222

Mortgage-backed securities34411,359161,70317
Agency obligations5Ñ3Ñ8Ñ
Collateralized mortgage obligations27842Ñ2804
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations34,76028210,52531145,285593

Obligations of state and political subdivisions67869627748

Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments3,39517624214,01938

Corporate debt securities1,1031312551,22818

Equity securities1,8041423Ñ1,82714
Other,primarily asset-backed securities1,89641321342,21775
Total securities with unrealized losses$54,449$532$14,018$457$68,467$989
Impairment is evaluated considering numerous factors,and their relative 
significance varies case to case.Factors considered include the length of time

and extent to which the market value has been less than cost;the financial 

condition and near-term prospects of the issuer of the securities;and the

FirmÕs intent and ability to retain the security in order to allow for an antici-

pated recovery in market value.If,based upon the analysis,it is determined

that the impairment is other-than-temporary,the security is written down to

fair value,and a loss is recognized through earnings.
Included in the $727 million of gross unrealized losses on AFS securities at
December 31,2005,was $391 million of unrealized losses that have existed

for a period greater than 12 months.These securities are predominately rated

AAA and the unrealized losses are due to overall increases in market interest

rates and not due to underlying credit concerns of the issuers.Substantially

all of the securities with unrealized losses aged greater than 12 months have
a market value at December 31,2005,that is within 4% of their amortized

cost basis.
In calculating the effective yield for mortgage-backed securities (ÒMBSÓ) 
and collateralized mortgage obligations (ÒCMOÓ),JPMorgan Chase includes

the effect of principal prepayments.Management regularly performs simulation

testing to determine the impact that market conditions would have on its

MBS and CMO portfolios.MBSs and CMOs that management believes have

prepayment risk are included in the AFS portfolio and are reported at fair value.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
105The following table presents the amortized cost,estimated fair value and average yield at December 31,2005,of JPMorgan ChaseÕs 
AFS and HTM securities bycontractual maturity:
Available-for-sale securitiesHeld-to-maturity securities
Maturity schedule of securitiesAmortizedFairAverageAmortizedFairAverage
December 31,2005 (in millions)costvalueyield
(a)costvalueyield
(a)Due in one year or less$6,723$6,4262.77%$Ñ$ÑÑ%
Due after one year through five years
7,7408,0093.72ÑÑÑ
Due after five years through 10 years5,3465,3664.7030316.96
Due after 10 years(b)28,18427,7224.6947496.73
Total securities
$47,993$47,5234.27%$77$806.82%
(a)The average yield is based upon amortized cost balances at year-end.Yields are derived by dividing interest income by total 
amortized cost.Taxable-equivalent yields are used where applicable.
(b)Includes securities with no stated maturity.Substantially all of JPMorgan ChaseÕs MBSs and CMOs are due in 10 years or more 
based upon contractual maturity.The estimated duration,which
reflects anticipated future prepayments based upon a consensus of dealers in the market,is approximately four years for MBSs an
d CMOs.
Private equity investments are primarily held by the Private Equity business
within Corporate (which includes JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners

businesses).The Private Equity business invests in buyouts,growth equity and

venture opportunities in the normal course of business.These investments 

are accounted for under investment company guidelines.Accordingly,these

investments,irrespective of the percentage of equity ownership interest held

by Private Equity,are carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value.

Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in value are

reported in Securities/private equity gains in the Consolidated statements of

income in the period that the gains or losses occur.
Privately-held investments are initially valued based upon cost.The carrying
values of privately-held investments are adjusted from cost to reflect both

positive and negative changes evidenced by financing events with third-party
capital providers.In addition,these investments are subject to ongoing

impairment reviews by Private EquityÕs senior investment professionals.A 

variety of factors are reviewed and monitored to assess impairment including,

but not limited to,operating performance and future expectations of the 

particular portfolio investment,industry valuations of comparable public com-

panies,changes in market outlook and the third-party financing environment
over time.The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area is responsible

for reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of private investments held

by Private Equity.
Private Equity also holds publicly-held equity investments,generally obtained
through the initial public offering of privately-held equity investments.Publicly-

held investments are marked to market at the quoted public value.To determine

the carrying values of these investments,Private Equity incorporates the use

of discounts to take into account the fact that it cannot immediately realize

or risk-manage the quoted public values as a result of regulatory and/or 

contractual sales restrictions imposed on these holdings.
The following table presents the carrying value and cost of the Private Equity
investment portfolio for the dates indicated:20052004CarryingCarrying
December 31,(in millions)valueCostvalueCost
Total private 
equity investments$6,374$8,036
$7,735$9,103
Note 10ÐSecurities financing activities
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements,repurchase agreements,
securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned transactions primarily

to finance the FirmÕs inventory positions,acquire securities to cover short

positions and settle other securities obligations.The Firm also enters into

these transactions to accommodate customersÕ needs.
Securities purchased under resale agreements (Òresale agreementsÓ) and
securities sold under repurchase agreements (Òrepurchase agreementsÓ) are

generally treated as collateralized financing transactions and are carried on

the Consolidated balance sheets at the amounts the securities will be subse-
quently sold or repurchased,plus accrued interest.Where appropriate,resale

and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net
basis in accordance with FIN 41.JPMorgan Chase takes possession of securi
tiespurchased under resale agreements.On a daily basis,JPMorgan Chase monitors

the market value of the underlying collateral received from its counterparties,

consisting primarily of U.S.and non-U.S.government and agency securities,

and requests additional collateral from its counterparties when necessary.
Transactions similar to financing activities that do not meet the SFAS 140 
definition of a repurchase agreement are accounted for as ÒbuysÓand ÒsellsÓ

rather than financing transactions.These transactions are accounted for as a

purchase (sale) of the underlying securities with a forward obligation to sell

(purchase) the securities.The forward purchase (sale) obligation,a derivative,

is recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets at its fair value,with changes

in fair value recorded in Trading revenue.
Securities borrowed and securities lent are recorded at the amount of cashcollateral advanced or received.Securities borrowed consist primarily of 

government and equity securities.JPMorgan Chase monitors the market value

of the securities borrowed and lent on a daily basis and calls for additional
collateral when appropriate.Fees received or paid are recorded in Interest

income or Interest expense.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
106JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
December 31,(in millions)
20052004Securities purchased under resale agreements$129,570
$94,076
Securities borrowed74,60447,428Securities sold under repurchase agreements$103,052
$105,912Securities loaned14,0726,435JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments the Firm owns to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings.Pledged

securities that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as
financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) on the Consolidated

balance sheets.
At December 31,2005,the Firm had received securities as collateral that can
be repledged,delivered or otherwise used with a fair value of approximately

$331 billion.This collateral was generally obtained under resale or securities

borrowing agreements.Of these securities,approximately $320 billion were

repledged,delivered or otherwise used,generally as collateral under repurchase

agreements,securities lending agreements or to cover short sales.
Note 11ÐLoans
Loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding,net of the Allowance

for loan losses,unearned income and any net deferred loan fees.Loans held

for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value,with valuation changes

recorded in noninterest revenue.Loans are classified as ÒtradingÓwhere 

positions are bought and sold to make profits from short-term movements 

in price.Loans held for trading purposes are included in Trading assets and

are carried at fair value,with gains and losses included in Trading revenue.

Interest income is recognized using the interest method,or on a basis 

approximating a level rate of return over the term of the loan.
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest is discontinued.Loans (other than certain consumer loans discussed below) are placed on
nonaccrual status immediately if,in the opinion of management,full payment

of principal or interest is in doubt,or when principal or interest is 90 days or

more past due and collateral,if any,is insufficient to cover principal and interest.

Interest accrued but not collected at the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual
status is reversed against Interest income.In addition,the amortization of 

net deferred loan fees is suspended.Interest income on nonaccrual loans is

recognized only to the extent it is received in cash.However,where there is

doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of loan principal,all cash thereafter

received is applied to reduce the carrying value of such loans.Loans are

restored to accrual status only when interest and principal payments are
brought current and future payments are reasonably assured.Consumer loans are generally charged to the Allowance for loan losses upon
reaching specified stages of delinquency,in accordance with the Federal

Financial Institutions Examination Council (ÒFFIECÓ) policy.For example,credit

card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account
becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of
the filing of bankruptcy,whichever is earlier.Residential mortgage products

are generally charged off to net realizable value at 180 days past due.Other

consumer products are generally charged off (to net realizable value if collat-

eralized) at 120 days past due.Accrued interest on residential mortgage 

products,and automobile and education financings and certain other consumer

loans are accounted for in accordance with the nonaccrual loan policy discussedin the preceding paragraph.Interest and fees related to credit card loans 
continue to accrue until the loan is charged off or paid.Accrued interest on

all other consumer loans is generally reversed against interest income when

the loan is charged off.A collateralized loan is considered an in-substance

foreclosure and is reclassified to assets acquired in loan satisfactions,within

Other assets,only when JPMorgan Chase has taken physical possessionof the

collateral,but regardless of whether formal foreclosure proceedings have

taken place.
The composition of the loan portfolio at each of the dates indicated was as
follows:December 31,(in millions)
20052004U.S.wholesale loans:
Commercial and industrial$70,233
$61,033
Real estate13,61213,038Financial institutions11,10014,195Lease financing receivables
2,6213,098Other14,4998,504Total U.S.wholesale loans
112,06599,868Non-U.S.wholesale loans:
Commercial and industrial27,45225,120Real estate1,4751,747Financial institutions7,9757,280Lease financing receivables
1,1441,052Total non-U.S.wholesale loans
38,04635,199Total wholesale loans:
(a)Commercial and industrial97,68586,153Real estate(b)15,08714,785Financial institutions19,07521,475Lease financing receivables
3,7654,150Other14,4998,504Total wholesale loans
150,111135,067Total consumer loans:
(c)Consumer real estateHome finance Ð home equity & other76,72767,837Home finance Ð mortgage56,72656,816Total Home finance
133,453124,653Auto & education finance49,04762,712Consumer & small business and other 14,79915,107Credit card receivables
(d)71,73864,575Total consumer loans
269,037267,047Total loans
(e)(f)(g)$419,148
$402,114
(a)Includes Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset &
Wealth Management.
(b)Represents credits extended for real estateÐrelated purposes to borrowers who are primarily
in the real estate development or investment businesses and for which the primary repayment
is from the sale,lease,management,operations or refinancing of the property.
(c)Includes Retail Financial Services and Card Services.

(d)Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.

(e)Loans are presented net of unearned income of $3.0 billion and $4.1 billion at December
31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(f)Includes loans held for sale (primarily related to securitization and syndication activities) of
$34.2 billion and $24.5 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(g)Amounts are presented gross of the Allowance for loan losses.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
107The following table reflects information about the FirmÕs loans held for sale,
principally mortgage-related:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Net gains on sales of loans held for sale
$596
$368$933
Lower of cost or fair value adjustments
(332)3926
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Impaired loans
JPMorgan Chase accounts for and discloses nonaccrual loans as impaired loans
and recognizes their interest income as discussed previously for nonaccrual
loans.The Firm excludes from impaired loans its small-balance,homogeneous

consumer loans;loans carried at fair value or the lower of cost or fair value;

debt securities;and leases.
The table below sets forth information about JPMorgan ChaseÕs impaired
loans.The Firm primarily uses the discounted cash flow method for valuing

impaired loans:December 31,(in millions)
(a)20052004Impaired loans with an allowance
$1,095
$1,496
Impaired loans without an allowance
(b)80284Total impaired loans
$1,175
$1,780
Allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114
(c)$257
$521
Average balance of impaired loans during the year
1,4781,883Interest income recognized on impaired 
loans during the year58(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)When the discounted cash flows,collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the 
carrying value of the loan,then the loan does not require an allowance under SFAS 114.
(c)The allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114 is included in JPMorgan ChaseÕs
Allowance for loan losses.
Note 12ÐAllowance for credit losses
JPMorgan ChaseÕs Allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale (risk-rated)
and consumer (scored) loan portfolios and represents managementÕs estimate

of probable credit losses inherent in the FirmÕs loan portfolio.Management

also computes an Allowance for wholesale lending-related commitments

using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loans.
The Allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific component and a 
formula-based component.Within the formula-based component is a statistical

calculation and an adjustment to the statistical calculation.The asset-specific component relates to provisions for losses on loans considered
impaired and measured pursuant to SFAS 114.An allowance is established

when the discounted cash flows (or collateral value or observable market

price) of the loan is lower than the carrying value of that loan.To compute

the asset-specific component of the allowance,larger impaired loans are

evaluated individually,and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool

using historical loss experience for the respective class of assets.
The formula-based component covers performing wholesale and consumer
loans and is the product of a statistical calculation,as well as adjustments to

such calculation.These adjustments take into consideration model imprecision,

external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet
reflected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation.The statistical calculation is the product of probability of default and loss
given default.For risk-rated loans (generally loans originated by the wholesale

lines of business),these factors are differentiated by risk rating and maturity.

For scored loans (generally loans originated by the consumer lines of business),

loss is primarily determined by applying statistical loss factors and other risk
indicators to pools of loans by asset type.Adjustments to the statis
tical calculation for the risk-rated portfolios are determined by creating estimated

ranges using historical experience of both loss given default and probability

of default.Factors related to concentrated and deteriorating industries are

also incorporated into the calculation where relevant.Adjustments to the 

statistical calculation for the scored loan portfolios are accomplished in part
by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment.
The estimated ranges and the determination of the appropriate point within

the range are based upon managementÕs view of uncertainties that relate 

to current macroeconomic and political conditions,quality of underwriting

standards,and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit

quality of the portfolio.
The Allowance for lending-related commitments represents managementÕs 
estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the FirmÕs process of extending

credit.Management establishes an asset-specific allowance for lending-related

commitments that are considered impaired and computes a formula-based
allowance for performing wholesale lending-related commitments.These are

computed using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loan
portfolio,modified for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown.
The allowance for credit losses is reviewed at least quarterly by the Chief 
Risk Officer of the Firm,the Risk Policy Committee,a risk subgroup of the

Operating Committee,and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of

the Firm relative to the risk profile of the FirmÕs credit portfolio and current

economic conditions.As of December 31,2005,JPMorgan Chase deemed the

allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e.,sufficient to absorb losses

that are inherent in the portfolio,including those not yet identifiable).
As a result of the Merger,management modified its methodology for deter-
mining the Provision for credit losses for the combined Firm.The effect of

conforming methodologies in 2004 was a decrease in the consumer allowance

of $254 million and a decrease in the wholesale allowance (including both

funded loans and lending-related commitments) of $330 million.In addition,

the Bank One sellerÕs interest in credit card securitizations was decertificated;

this resulted in an increase to the provision for loan losses of approximately

$1.4 billion (pre-tax) in 2004.Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
108JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase maintains an allowance for credit losses as follows:
Reported in:Allowance for 
credit losses on:Balance sheetIncome statement
LoansAllowance for loan lossesProvision for credit losses
Lending-related commitmentsOther liabilitiesProvision for credit losses
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for loan losses:
December 31,(in millions)
20052004(c)Allowance for loan losses at January 1
$ 7,320$ 4,523Addition resulting from the Merger,July 1,2004
Ñ3,123Gross charge-offs(4,869)(3,805)(d)Gross recoveries1,050706Net charge-offs(3,819)(3,099)Provision for loan losses:
Provision excluding accounting policy conformity 3,5751,798Accounting policy conformity(a)Ñ1,085Total Provision for loan losses
3,5752,883Other14(110)(e)Allowance for loan losses at December 31
$ 7,090(b)$7,320
(f)(a) Represents an increase of approximately $1.4 billion as a result of the decertification of 
heritage Bank One sellerÕs interest in credit card securitizations,partially offset by a 

reduction of $357 million to conform provision methodologies.
(b) 2005 includes $203 million of asset-specific and $6.9 billion of formula-based allowance.
Included within the formula-based allowance was $5.1 billion related to a statistical calculation

(including $400 million related to Hurricane Katrina),and an adjustment to the statistical 

calculation of $1.8 billion.(c) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(d) Includes $406 million related to the Manufactured Home Loan portfolio in the fourth
quarter of 2004.(e) Primarily represents the transfer of the allowance for accrued interest and fees on reported
and securitized credit card loans.
(f)2004 includes $469 million of asset-specific loss and $6.8 billion of formula-based loss.
Included within the formula-based loss is $4.8 billion related to statistical calculation and
an adjustment to the statistical calculation of $2.0 billion.The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for lending-related
commitments:December 31,(in millions)
20052004(c)Allowance for lending-related commitments 
at January 1
$ 492$ 324Addition resulting from the Merger,July 1,2004
Ñ508Provision for lending-related commitments:Provision excluding accounting policy conformity (92)(112)Accounting policy conformity(a)Ñ(227)Total Provision for lending-related commitments
(92)(339)OtherÑ(1)Allowance for lending-related commitments 
at December 31(b)$ 400$492
(a) Represents a reduction of $227 million to conform provision methodologies in the 
wholesale portfolio.
(b) 2005 includes $60 million of asset-specific and $340 million of formula-based allowance.2004
includes $130 million of asset-specific and $362 million of formula-based allowance.The 

formula-based allowance for lending-related commitments is based upon a statistical calculation.

There is no adjustment to the statistical calculation for lending-related commitments.
(c) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
Note 13ÐLoan securitizations 
JPMorgan Chase securitizes,sells and services various consumer loans,such
as consumer real estate,credit card and automobile loans,as well as certain

wholesale loans (primarily real estate) originated by the Investment Bank.In

addition,the Investment Bank purchases,packages and securitizes commercial

and consumer loans.All IB activity is collectively referred to below as Wholesale

activities.Interests in the sold and securitized loans may be retained.
The Firm records a loan securitization as a sale when the transferred loans are
legally isolated from the FirmÕs creditors and the accounting criteria for a sale

are met.Those criteria are (1) the assets are legally isolated from the FirmÕs

creditors;(2) the entity can pledge or exchange the financial assets or,if the

entity is a QSPE,its investors can pledge or exchange their interests;and (3) the

Firm does not maintain effective control via an agreement to repurchase the
assets before their maturity or have the ability to unilaterally cause the holder

to return the assets.
Gains or losses recorded on loan securitizations depend,in part,on the carrying
amount of the loans sold and are allocated between the loans sold and the
retained interests,based upon their relative fair values at the date of sale.Gains

on securitizations are reported in noninterest revenue.Since quoted market

prices are generally not available,the Firm usually estimates the fair value of

these retained interests by determining the present value of future expected

cash flows using modeling techniques.Such models incorporate managementÕs

best estimates of key variables,such as expected credit losses,prepayment

speeds and the discount rates appropriate for the risks involved.
Retained interests that are subject to prepayment risk,such that JPMorgan
Chase may not recover substantially all of its investment,are recorded at fair

value;subsequent adjustments are reflected in Other comprehensive income or in

earnings,if the fair value of the retained interest has declined below its carrying

amount and such decline has been determined to be other-than-temporary.
Interests in the securitized loans are generally retained by the Firm in the form
of senior or subordinated interest-only strips,subordinated tranches,escrow

accounts and servicing rights,and they are generally recorded in Other assets.

In addition,credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a 

minimum undivided interest in the trusts,representing the FirmÕs interests in

the receivables transferred to the trust that have not been securitized.These 

interests are not represented by security certificates.The FirmÕs undivided

interests are carried at historical cost and are classified in Loans.Retained 

interests from wholesale activities are reflected as trading assets.
JPMorgan Chase retains servicing responsibilities for all residential mortgage,
credit card and automobile loan securitizations and for certain wholesale
activity securitizations it sponsors,and receives servicing fees based on the

securitized loan balance plus certain ancillary fees.The Firm also retains the

right to service the residential mortgage loans it sells in connection with
mortgage-backed securities transactions with the Government National

Mortgage Association (ÒGNMAÓ),Federal National Mortgage Association

(ÒFNMAÓ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (ÒFreddie MacÓ).

For a discussion of mortgage servicing rights,see Note 15 on pages 114Ð116

of thisAnnual report.
JPMorgan Chase-sponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as part of the securiti-zation process.These SPEs are structured to meet the definition of a QSPE 

(as discussed in Note 1 on page 91 of this Annual Report);accordingly,the

assets and liabilities of securitization-related QSPEs are not reflected in the
FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets (except for retained interests,as described

below) but are included on the balance sheet of the QSPE purchasing theJPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
109Year ended December 31,
20052004(a)ResidentialWholesaleResidentialWholesale
(in millions)mortgageCredit cardAutomobileactivities
(e)mortgageCredit cardAutomobileactivities
(e)Principal securitized $18,125$15,145$3,762$22,691
$6,529$8,850$1,600$8,756
Pre-tax gains (losses)211019
(c)1314752(3)135
Cash flow information:
Proceeds from securitizations$18,093$14,844$2,622$22,892
$6,608$8,850$1,597$8,430
Servicing fees collected17944Ñ
126913
Other cash flows receivedÑ298Ñ3
25225Ñ16
Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizationsÑ129,696ÑÑ
Ñ110,697ÑÑ
Key assumptions
(rates per annum):
Prepayment rate
(b)9.1Ð12.1% 16.7Ð20.0%1.5%0Ð50%
23.8Ð37.6% 15.5Ð16.7%1.5%
17.0Ð50.0%CPRPPRABS
CPRPPRABS
Weighted-average life (in years)
5.6Ð6.70.4Ð0.51.4Ð1.51.0Ð4.4
1.9Ð3.00.5Ð0.61.82.0Ð4.0
Expected credit lossesÑ(d)4.7Ð5.7%0.6Ð0.7%0Ð2.0%
(d)1.0Ð2.3%5.5Ð5.8%0.6%0.0Ð3.0%
(d)Discount rate
13.0Ð13.3%12.0%6.3Ð7.3%0.6Ð18.5%
15.0Ð30.0%12.0%4.1%0.6Ð5.0%
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)CPR:constant prepayment rate;ABS:absolute prepayment speed;PPR:principal payment rate.

(c)The auto securitization gain of $9 million does not include the write-down of loans transferred to held-for-sale in 2005 and
 risk management activities intended to protect the economic value 
of the loans while held-for-sale.
(d)Expected credit losses for prime residential mortgage and certain wholesale securitizations are minimal and are incorporated
 into other assumptions.
(e)Wholesale activities consist of wholesale loans (primarily commercial real estate) originated by the Investment Bank as well
 as $11.4 billion and $1.8 billion of consumer loans purchased from the
market in 2005 and 2004,respectively,and then packaged and securitized by the Investment Bank.
assets.Assets held by securitization-related SPEs as of December 31,2005
and 2004,were as follows:
December 31,(in billions)
20052004Credit card receivables 
$96.0
$106.3
Residential mortgage receivables
29.819.1Wholesale activities(a)72.944.8Automobile loans5.54.9Total
$204.2
$175.1
(a) Co-sponsored securitizations include non-JPMorgan Chase originated assets.
The following table summarizes new securitization transactions that were
completed during 2005 and 2004,the resulting gains arising from such 

securitizations,certain cash flows received from such securitizations,and the

key economic assumptions used in measuring the retained interests,as of the

dates of such sales:In addition to securitization transactions,the Firm sold residential mortgage

loans totaling $52.5 billion,$65.7 billion and $123.2 billion during 2005,

2004 and 2003,respectively,primarily as GNMA,FNMA and Freddie Mac

mortgage-backed securities;these sales resulted in pre-tax gains of $293

million,$58.1 million and $564.3 million,respectively.
At both December 31,2005 and 2004,the Firm had,with respect to its 
credit card master trusts,$24.8 billion and $35.2 billion,respectively,related

to undivided interests,and $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion,respectively,related 

to subordinated interests in accrued interest and fees on the securitized
receivables,net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.Credit card 

securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest
of 4% to 12% of the principal receivables in the trusts.The Firm maintained an

average undivided interest in principal receivables in the trusts of approximately

23% for both 2005 and 2004,respectively.
The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits for some
credit card and automobile securitizations,in the unlikely event of deficiencies

in cash flows owed to investors.The amounts available in such escrow accounts

are recorded in Other assets and,as of December 31,2005,amounted to
$754 million and $76 million for credit card and automobile securitizations,
respectively;as of December 31,2004,these amounts were $395 million and

$132 million for credit card and automobile securitizations,respectively.
The table below summarizes other retained securitization interests,which are
primarily subordinated or residual interests and are carried at fair value on

the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets:
December 31,(in millions)
20052004Residential mortgage(a)$182
$433
Credit card(a)808494Automobile(a)(b)15085Wholesale activities(c)26523Total
$1,405
$1,035
(a)Pre-tax unrealized gains (losses) recorded in StockholdersÕ equity that relate to retained
securitization interests totaled $60 million and $118 million for Residential mortgage;
$6 million and $(3) million for Credit card;and $5 million and $11 million for Automobile 

at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(b)In addition to the automobile retained interest amounts noted above,the Firm also retained
senior securities totaling $490 million at December 31,2005,from 2005 auto securitizations

that are classified as AFS securities.These securitiesare valued using quoted market prices

and are therefore not included in the key economic assumption and sensitivities table that

follows.
(c)In addition to the wholesale retained interest amounts noted above,the Firm also retained
subordinated securities totaling $51 million at December 31,2005,from re-securitization

activities.These securities are valued using quoted market prices and are therefore not

included in the key assumptions and sensitivities table that follows.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
110JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value of the other retained interests at Decem
ber 31,2005 and 2004,
respectively;and it outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptio
ns:December 31,2005
(in millions)Residential mortgage Credit cardAutomobileWholesale activities
Weighted-average life (in years)
0.5Ð3.50.4Ð0.71.20.2Ð4.1
Prepayment rate
20.1Ð43.7% CPR11.9Ð20.8% PPR1.5% ABS
0.0Ð50.0%(a)Impact of 10% adverse change$(3)$  (44)$Ñ$(5)
Impact of 20% adverse change(5)(88)(2)(6)
Loss assumption0.0Ð5.2%(b)3.2Ð8.1%0.7%0.0Ð2.0%
(b)Impact of 10% adverse change$(10)$ (77)$(4)$(6)
Impact of 20% adverse change(19)(153)(9)(11)
Discount rate
12.7Ð30.0%(c)6.9Ð12.0%7.2%0.2Ð18.5%
Impact of 10% adverse change$   (4)$(2)$(1)$(6)
Impact of 20% adverse change(8)(4)(3)(12)
December 31,2004 (in millions)Residential mortgage Credit cardAutomobileWholesale activities
Weighted-average life (in years)0.8Ð3.40.5Ð1.01.30.2Ð4.0
Prepayment rate15.1Ð37.1% CPR8.3Ð16.7% PPR1.4% ABS0.0Ð50.0%
(a)Impact of 10% adverse change$(5)$(34)$(6)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(8)(69)(13)(1)
Loss assumption0.0Ð5.0%
(b)5.7Ð8.4%0.7%0.0Ð3.0%
(b)Impact of 10% adverse change$(17)$(144)$(4)$Ñ
Impact of 20% adverse change(34)(280)(8)Ñ
Discount rate13.0Ð30.0%
(c)4.9Ð12.0%5.5%1.0Ð22.9%
Impact of 10% adverse change$(9)$(2)$(1)$Ñ
Impact of 20% adverse change(18)(4)(2)Ñ
(a)Prepayment risk on certain wholesale retained interests are minimal and are incorporated into other assumptions.
(b)Expected credit losses for prime residential mortgage and certain wholesale securitizations are minimal and are incorporated
 into other assumptions.
(c)The Firm sold certain residual interests from sub-prime mortgage securitizations via Net Interest Margin (ÒNIMÓ) securitizat
ions and retains residual interests in these NIM transactions,
which are valued using a 30% discount rate.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical.Changes in fair
value based upon a 10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot

be extrapolated easily,because the relationship of the change in the assump-

tions to the change in fair value may not be linear.Also,in this table,the

effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is

calculated without changing any other assumption.In reality,changes in one
factor may result in changes in another assumption,which might counteract

or magnify the sensitivities.
Expected static-pool net credit losses include actual incurred losses plus projected net credit losses,divided by the original balance of the outstandings

comprising the securitization pool.The table below displays the expected static-pool net credit losses for 2005,2004 and 2003,based upon securitizations occurring
 in that year:
Loans securitized in:
(a)20052004(b)2003(b)Residential mortgage(c)AutomobileResidential mortgageAutomobileResidential mortgageAutomobile
December 31,2005
0.0%0.9%
0.0Ð2.4%0.8%0.0Ð2.0%0.5%
December 31,2004
NANA
0.0Ð3.31.10.0Ð2.10.9
December 31,2003
NANA
NANA0.0Ð3.60.9
(a) Static-pool losses are not applicable to credit card securitizations due to their revolving structure.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(c)2005 securitizations consist of prime-mortgage securitizations only.Expected losses are minimal and incorporated in other as
sumptions.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
111The table below presents information about delinquencies,net credit losses and components of reported and securitized financial
 assets at December 31,2005 and 2004:
Nonaccrual and 90 days orNet loan charge-offs
(a)Total Loansmore past dueYear ended
December 31,(in millions)
200520042005200420052004Home finance$133,453
$124,653
$863
$673
$154
$573
Auto & education finance49,04762,712195193277263Consumer & small business and other 14,79915,107280295141154Credit card receivables
71,73864,5751,0911,0063,3241,923Total consumer loans
269,037267,0472,4292,1673,8962,913Total wholesale loans
150,111135,0671,0421,582(77)186Total loans reported 419,148
402,1143,4713,7493,8193,099Securitized loans:Residential mortgage(b)8,06111,533370460105150Automobile 5,4394,76311121524Credit card70,52770,7957301,3373,7762,898Total consumer loans securitized84,027
87,0911,1111,8093,8963,072Securitized wholesale activities9,0491,4014ÑÑÑTotal loans securitized
(c)93,07688,4921,1151,8093,8963,072Total loans reported and securitized
(d)$512,224
$490,606
$4,586
$5,558
$7,715
$ 6,171(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)Includes $5.9 billion and $10.3 billion of outstanding principal balances on securitized sub-prime 1Ð4 family residential mo
rtgage loans as of December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(c)Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs were $204.2 billion and $175.1 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respect
ively.The $93.1 billion and $88.5 billion of loans securitized 
at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively,excludes:$85.6 billion and $50.8 billion of securitized loans,in which the FirmÕs onl
y continuing involvement is the servicing of the assets;$24.8 billion and $35.2 billion of sellerÕs interests in credit card master trusts;and $0.7 billion and $0.6 billion of escrow 
accounts and other assets,respectively.
(d)Represents both loans on the Consolidated balance sheets and loans that have been securitized,but excludes loans for which t
he FirmÕs only continuing involvement is servicing of the assets.
Note 14ÐVariable interest entities
Refer to Note 1 on page 91 of this Annual Report for a further description of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs policies regarding consolidation of variable interest entities.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs principal involvement with VIEs occurs in the following
business segments:¥  Investment Bank:Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in accessing the financial
markets in a cost-efficient manner by providing the structural flexibility to

meet their needs pertaining to price,yield and desired risk.There are two

broad categories of transactions involving VIEs in the IB:(1) multi-seller

conduits and (2) client intermediation;both are discussed below.The IB

also securitizes loans through QSPEs which are not considered VIEs,to 

create asset-backed securities,as further discussed in Note 13 on pages

108Ð111 of this Annual Report.
¥  Asset & Wealth Management:Provides investment management services 
to a limited number of the FirmÕs mutual funds deemed VIEs.AWM earns 

a fixed fee based upon assets managed;the fee varies with each fundÕs

investment objective and is competitively priced.For the limited number 

of funds that qualify as VIEs,AWMÕs relationships with such funds are not

considered significant interests under FIN 46R.¥  Treasury & Securities Services:Provides trustee and custodial services to a
number of VIEs.These services are similar to those provided to non-VIEs.

TSS earns market-based fees for services provided.Such relationships are

not considered significant interests under FIN 46R.¥  Commercial Banking:Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in accessing the financial
markets in a cost-efficient manner.This is often accomplished through the

use of products similar to those offered in the Investment Bank.Commercial Banking may assist in the structuring and/or on-going admin-istration of these VIEs and may provide liquidity,letters of credit and/or

derivative instruments in support of the VIE.
¥  The FirmÕs Private Equity business,included in Corporate,is involved with
entities that may be deemed VIEs.Private equity activities are accounted for

in accordance with the Investment Company Audit Guide (ÒAudit GuideÓ).

The FASB deferred adoption of FIN 46R for non-registered investment

companies that apply the Audit Guide until the proposed Statement of

Position on the clarification of the scope of the Audit Guide is finalized.

The Firm continues to apply this deferral provision;had FIN 46R been

applied to VIEs subject to this deferral,the impact would have had an

insignificant impact on the FirmÕs Consolidated financial statements as 

of December 31,2005.
As noted above,there are two broad categories of transactions involving VIEs
with which the IB is involved:multi-seller conduits and client intermediation.

These categories are discussed more fully below.
Multi-seller conduits The Firm is an active participant in the asset-backed securities business,helping

meet customersÕ financing needs by providing access to the commercial paper
markets through VIEs known as multi-seller conduits.These entities are separate

bankruptcy-remote corporations in the business of purchasing interests in,

and making loans secured by,receivable pools and other financial assets 

pursuant to agreements with customers.The entities fund their purchases and

loans through the issuance of highly-rated commercial paper.The primary

source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flow from the pools
of assets.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
112JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Program-wide liquidity in the form of revolving and short-term lending com-
mitments also is provided by the Firm to these vehicles in the event of short-
term disruptions in the commercial paper market.
Deal-specific credit enhancement that supports the commercial paper issuedby the conduits is generally structured to cover a multiple of historical losses

expected on the pool of assets and is provided primarily by customers (i.e.,

sellers) or other third parties.The deal-specific credit enhancement is typically

in the form of over-collateralization provided by the seller but also may

include any combination of the following:recourse to the seller or originator,

cash collateral accounts,letters of credit,excess spread,retention of subordi-

nated interests or third-party guarantees.In certain instances,the Firm 

provides limited credit enhancement in the form of standby letters of credit.JPMorgan Chase serves as the administrator and provides contingent liquidity
support and limited credit enhancement for several multi-seller conduits.The

commercial paper issued by the conduits is backed by collateral,credit enhance-

ments and commitments to provide liquidity sufficient to support receiving at
least a liquidity rating of A-1,P-1 and,in certain cases,F1.
As a means of ensuring timely repayment of the commercial paper,each asset
pool financed by the conduits has a minimum 100% deal-specific liquidity
facility associated with it.In the unlikely event an asset pool is removed from

the conduit,the administrator can draw on the liquidity facility to repay the

maturing commercial paper.The liquidity facilities are typically in the form of

asset purchase agreements and are generally structured such that the bank

liquidity is provided by purchasing,or lending against,a pool of non-defaulted,

performing assets.Deal-specific liquidity is the primary source of liquidity 

support for the conduits.
The following table summarizes the FirmÕs involvement with Firm-administered multi-seller conduits:
ConsolidatedNonconsolidatedTotal
December 31,(in billions)
2005200420052004(b)20052004(b)Total commercial paper issued by conduits$35.2
$35.8
$8.9
$9.3
$44.1
$45.1
Commitments
Asset-purchase agreements$47.9
$47.2
$14.3
$16.3
$62.2
$63.5
Program-wide liquidity commitments
5.04.01.02.06.06.0Program-wide limited credit enhancements
1.31.41.01.22.32.6Maximum exposure to loss
(a)48.448.214.816.963.265.1(a) The FirmÕs maximum exposure to loss is limited to the amount of drawn commitments (i.e.,sellersÕ assets held by the multi-s
eller conduits for which the Firm provides liquidity support) of $41.6 billion and $42.2 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively,plus contractual but undrawn commitments of $21.6 billion a
nd $22.9 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
Since the Firm provides credit enhancement and liquidity to these multi-seller conduits,the maximum exposure is not adjusted to
 exclude exposure absorbed by third-party liquidity providers.
(b) In December 2003 and February 2004,two multi-seller conduits were restructured,with each conduit issuing preferred securiti
es acquired by an independent third-party investor;the investor
absorbs the majority of the expected losses of the conduit.In determining the primary beneficiary of the restructured conduits,
the Firm leveraged an existing rating agency model Ð an independent
market standard Ð to estimate the size of the expected losses,and the Firm considered the relative rights and obligations of ea
ch of the variable interest holders.
The Firm views its credit exposure to multi-seller conduit transactions as 
limited.This is because,for the most part,the Firm is not required to fund

under the liquidity facilities if the assets in the VIE are in default.Additionally,

the FirmÕs obligations under the letters of credit are secondary to the risk of

first loss provided by the customer or other third parties Ð for example,by 

the overcollateralization of the VIE with the assets sold to it or notes 

subordinated to the FirmÕs liquidity facilities.
Client intermediation
As a financial intermediary,the Firm is involved in structuring VIE transactions

to meet investor and client needs.The Firm intermediates various types of

risks (including fixed income,equity and credit),typically using derivative

instruments as further discussed below.In certain circumstances,the Firm 

also provides liquidity and other support to the VIEs to facilitate the transaction.

The FirmÕs current exposure to nonconsolidated VIEs is reflected in its

Consolidated balance sheets or in the Notes to consolidated financial state-
ments.The risks inherent in derivative instruments or liquidity commitments

are managed similarly to other credit,market and liquidity risks to which the

Firm is exposed.The Firm intermediates principally with the following types of

VIEs:credit-linked note vehicles and municipal bond vehicles.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
113The Firm structures credit-linked notes in which the VIE purchases highly-rated
assets (such as asset-backed securities) and enters into a credit derivative

contract with the Firm to obtain exposure to a referenced credit not held by

the VIE.Credit-linked notes are issued by the VIE to transfer the risk of the

referenced credit to the investors in the VIE.Clients and investors often prefer

a VIE structure,since the credit-linked notes generally carry a higher credit

rating than they would if issued directly by JPMorgan Chase.
The Firm is involved with municipal bond vehicles for the purpose of creating
a series of secondary market trusts that allow tax-exempt investors to finance

their investments at short-term tax-exempt rates.The VIE purchases fixed-rate,

longer-term highly-rated municipal bonds by issuing puttable floating-rate

certificates and inverse floating-rate certificates;the investors in the inverse

floating-rate certificates are exposed to the residual losses of the VIE (the

Òresidual interestsÓ).For vehicles in which the Firm owns the residual interests,

the Firm consolidates the VIE.In vehicles where third-party investors own the

residual interests,the FirmÕs exposure is limited because of the high credit

quality of the underlying municipal bonds,the unwind triggers based upon

the market value of the underlying collateral and the residual interests held

by third parties.The Firm often serves as remarketing agent for the VIE and

provides liquidity to support the remarketing.
Assets held by credit-linked and municipal bond vehicles at December 31,
2005 and 2004,were as follows:
December 31,(in billions)
20052004Credit-linked note vehicles
(a)$13.5
$17.8
Municipal bond vehicles(b)13.77.5(a)Assets of $1.8 billion and $2.3 billion reported in the table above were recorded on the
FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively,due to

contractual relationships held by the Firm that relate to collateral held by the VIE.
(b)Total amounts consolidated due to the Firm owning residual interests were $4.9 billion and
$2.6 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively,and are reported in the table.

Total liquidity commitments were $5.8 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31,2005 and

2004,respectively.The FirmÕs maximum credit exposure to all municipal bond vehicles was

$10.7 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
Finally,the Firm may enter into transactions with VIEs structured by other 
parties.These transactions can include,for example,acting as a derivative

counterparty,liquidity provider,investor,underwriter,placement agent,trustee

or custodian.These transactions are conducted at armÕs length,and individual

credit decisions are based upon the analysis of the specific VIE,taking into

consideration the quality of the underlying assets.JPMorgan Chase records

and reports these positions similarly to any other third-party transaction.

These activities do not cause JPMorgan Chase to absorb a majority of the

expected losses of the VIEs or to receive a majority of the residual returns of

the VIE,and they are not considered significant for disclosure purposes.
Consolidated VIE assets

The following table summarizes the FirmÕs total consolidated VIE assets,by

classification on the Consolidated balance sheets,as of December 31,2005

and 2004:December 31,(in billions)
20052004Consolidated VIE assets
(a)Investment securities(b)$1.9
$10.6
Trading assets
(c)9.34.7Loans 8.13.4Interests in purchased receivables
29.631.6Other assets3.00.4Total consolidated assets 
$51.9
$50.7
(a) The Firm also holds $3.9 billion and $3.4 billion of assets,at December 31,2005 and
December 31,2004,respectively,primarily as a sellerÕs interest,in certain consumer securi-

tizations in a segregated entity,as part of a two-step securitization transaction.This interest

is included in the securitization activities disclosed in Note 13 on pages 108Ð111 of this
Annual Report.(b)The decline in balance is primarily attributable to the sale of the FirmÕs interest in a 
structured investment vehicleÕs capital notes and resulting deconsolidation of this vehicle 

in 2005.
(c) Includes the fair value of securities and derivatives.
Interests in purchased receivables include interests in receivables purchased
by Firm-administered conduits,which have been consolidated in accordance

with FIN 46R.Interests in purchased receivables are carried at cost and are

reviewed to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment exists.

Based upon the current level of credit protection specified in each transaction,

primarily through overcollateralization,the Firm determined that no other-

than-temporary impairment existed at December 31,2005.
The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs
are classified in the line item titled,ÒBeneficial interests issued by consolidated

variable interest entitiesÓon the Consolidated balance sheets.The holders 

of these beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of

JPMorgan Chase.See Note 17 on page 117 of this Annual Report for the

maturity profile of FIN 46 long-term beneficial interests.
FIN 46R transition 
In December 2003,the FASB issued a revision to FIN 46 (ÒFIN 46RÓ) to

address various technical corrections and implementation issues that had arisen

since the issuance of FIN 46.Effective March 31,2004,JPMorgan Chase

implemented FIN 46R for all VIEs,excluding certain investments made by its

private equity business,as previously discussed.Implementation of FIN 46R did

not have a significant effect on the FirmÕs Consolidated financial statements.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
114JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Note 15ÐGoodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill is not amortized but instead tested for impairment in accordancewith SFAS 142 at the reporting-unit segment,which is generally one level

below the six major reportable business segments (as described in Note 31
on pages 130Ð131 of this Annual Report);plus Private Equity (which is

included in Corporate).Goodwill is tested annually (during the fourth quarter)

or more often if events or circumstances,such as adverse changes in the busi-

ness climate,indicate there may be impairment.Intangible assets determined

to have indefinite lives are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment
at least annually,or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances

indicate that the asset might be impaired.The impairment test compares 

the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount.

Other acquired intangible assets determined to have finite lives,such as core

deposits and credit card relationships,are amortized over their estimated useful

lives in a manner that best reflects the economic benefits of the intangible
asset.In addition,impairment testing is performed periodically on these

amortizing intangible assets.
Goodwill and other intangible assets consist of the following:December 31,(in millions)
20052004Goodwill$43,621
$43,203
Mortgage servicing rights
6,4525,080Purchased credit card relationships3,2753,878December 31,(in millions)
20052004All other intangibles:Other credit cardÐrelated intangibles
$124
$272
Core deposit intangibles2,7053,328All other intangibles2,0032,126Total All other intangible assets
$4,832
$5,726
GoodwillAs of December 31,2005,goodwill increased by $418 million compared with

December 31,2004,principally in connection with the establishment of the

business partnership with Cazenove,as well as the acquisitions of Vastera,

Neovest and the Sears Canada credit card business.These increases to

Goodwill were partially offset by the deconsolidation of Paymentech.Goodwill

was not impaired at December 31,2005 or 2004,nor was any goodwill 

written off due to impairment during the years ended December 31,2005,

2004 or 2003.Goodwill attributed to the business segments was as follows:
Dec.31,
Dec.31,Goodwill resulting
(in millions)20052004from the Merger
Investment Bank$3,531
$3,309$1,179
Retail Financial Services14,99115,02214,576
Card Services12,98412,78112,802
Commercial Banking2,6512,6502,599
Treasury & Securities Services
2,0622,044465
Asset & Wealth Management
7,0257,0202,539
Corporate (Private Equity)
377377Ñ
Total goodwill
$43,621
$43,203$34,160
Mortgage servicing rights JPMorgan Chase recognizes as intangible assets mortgage servicing rights,which

represent the right to perform specified residential mortgage servicing activities
for others.MSRs are either purchased from third parties or retained upon sale or

securitization of mortgage loans.Servicing activities include collecting principal,

interest,and escrow payments from borrowers;making tax and insurance 

payments on behalf of the borrowers;monitoring delinquencies and executing

foreclosure proceedings;and accounting for and remitting principal and interest

payments to the investors of the mortgage-backed securities.
The amount capitalized as MSRs represents the amount paid to third parties to
acquire MSRs or is based on fair value,if retained upon the sale or securitization

of mortgage loans.The Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs using a 

discounted future cash flow model.The model considers portfolio characteristics,

contractually specified servicing fees,prepayment assumptions,delinquency

rates,late charges,other ancillary revenues and costs to service,as well as

other economic factors.
During the fourth quarter of 2005,the Firm enhanced its valuation of MSRs 
by utilizing an option-adjusted spread (ÒOASÓ) valuation approach.An OAS

approach projects MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios in 

conjunction with the FirmÕs proprietary prepayment model,and then discounts

these cash flows at risk-adjusted rates.Prior to the fourth quarter of 2005,

MSRs were valued using cash flows and discount rates determined by a ÒstaticÓ

or single interest rate path valuation model.The initial valuation of MSRs

under OAS did not have a material impact on the FirmÕs financial statements.
The Firm compares fair value estimates and assumptions to observable market
data where available and to recent market activity and actual portfolio 

experience.Management believes that the assumptions used to estimate fair

values are supportable and reasonable.
The Firm accounts for its MSRs at the lower of cost or fair value,in accordance
with SFAS 140.MSRs are amortized as a reduction of the actual servicing

income received in proportion to,and over the period of,the estimated future

net servicing income stream of the underlying mortgage loans.For purposes of

evaluating and measuring impairment of MSRs,the Firm stratifies the portfolio

on the basis of the predominant risk characteristics,which are loan type and

interest rate.Any indicated impairment is recognized as a reduction in revenue

through a valuation allowance,which represents the extent that the carrying

value of an individual stratum exceeds its estimated fair value.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
115The Firm evaluates other-than-temporary impairment by reviewing changes 
in mortgage and other market interest rates over historical periods and then

determines an interest rate scenario to estimate the amounts of the MSRsÕ

gross carrying value and the related valuation allowance that could be

expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future.Any gross carrying value

and related valuation allowance amounts that are not expected to be recovered

in the foreseeable future,based upon the interest rate scenario,are considered

to be other-than-temporary.
The carrying value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates,including
their effect on prepayment speeds.JPMorgan Chase uses a combination of

derivatives,AFS securities and trading instruments to manage changes in the

fair value of MSRs.The intent is to offset any changes in the fair value of MSRs

with changes in the fair value of the related risk management instrument.

MSRs decrease in value when interest rates decline.Conversely,securities

(such as mortgage-backed securities),principal-only certificates and derivatives

(when the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments) decrease in value when

interest rates increase.The Firm offsets the interest rate risk of its MSRs by

designating certain derivatives (e.g.,a combination of swaps,swaptions and

floors that produces an interest rate profile opposite to the designated risk of

the hedged MSRs) as fair value hedges of specified MSRs under SFAS 133.

SFAS 133 hedge accounting allows the carrying value of the hedged MSRs to

be adjusted through earnings in the same period that the change in value of

the hedging derivatives is recognized through earnings.Both of these valuation

adjustments are recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
When applying SFAS 133,the loans underlying the MSRs being hedged are
stratified into specific SFAS 133 asset groupings that possess similar interest

rate and prepayment risk exposures.The documented hedge period for the

Firm is daily.Daily adjustments are performed to incorporate new or terminated

derivative contracts and to modify the amount of the corresponding similar

asset grouping that is being hedged.The Firm has designated changes in the

benchmark interest rate (LIBOR) as the hedged risk.In designating the bench-

mark interest rate,the Firm considers the impact that the change in the

benchmark rate has on the prepayment speed estimates in determining the

fair value of the MSRs.The Firm performs both prospective and retrospective

hedge-effectiveness evaluations,using a regression analysis,to determine

whether the hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective.Hedge

effectiveness is assessed by comparing the change in value of the MSRs as a

result of changes in benchmark interest rates to the change in the value of

the designated derivatives.For a further discussion on derivative instruments

and hedging activities,see Note 26 on page 123 of this Annual Report.
Securities (both AFS and Trading) also are used to manage the risk exposure
of MSRs.Because these securities do not qualify as hedges under SFAS 133,

they are accounted for under SFAS 115.Realized and unrealized gains and

losses on trading securities are recognized in earnings in Mortgage fees and

related income;interest income on the AFS securities is recognized in earnings

in Net interest income;and unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities are

reported in Other comprehensive income.Finally,certain nonhedge derivatives,

which have not been designated by management in SFAS 133 hedge relation-

ships,are used to manage the economic risk exposure of MSRs and are

recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
Certain AFS securities purchased by the Firm to manage structuralinterest
rate risk were designated in 2005 as risk management instruments of MSRs.

At December 31,2005 and 2004,the unrealized loss on AFS securities used

to manage the risk exposure of MSRs was $174 million and $3 million,

respectively.
The following table summarizes MSR activity and related amortization for the
dates indicated.It also includes the key assumptions and the sensitivity of the

fair value of MSRs at December 31,2005,to immediate 10% and 20%

adverse changes in each of those assumptions.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Balance at January 1
$6,111
$6,159$4,864
Additions1,8971,7573,201
Bank One mergerNA90NA
SalesÑ(3)Ñ
Other-than-temporary impairment
(1)(149)(283)
Amortization(1,295)(1,297)(1,397)
SFAS 133 hedge valuation adjustments
90(446)(226)
Balance at December 316,8026,1116,159
Less:valuation allowance
3501,0311,378
Balance at December 31,after 
valuation allowance
$6,452
$5,080$4,781
Estimated fair value at December 31
$6,668
$5,124$4,781
Weighted-average prepayment 
speed assumption (CPR)17.56%17.29% 17.67%Weighted-average discount rate
9.68%7.93%7.31%
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
CPR:Constant prepayment rate
2005Weighted-average prepayment speed assumption (CPR)
17.56%Impact on fair value with 10% adverse change
$(340)
Impact on fair value with 20% adverse change
(654)Weighted-average discount rate 
9.68%Impact on fair value with 10% adverse change
$(231)
Impact on fair value with 20% adverse change
(446)CPR:Constant prepayment rate.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and should be
used with caution.As the figures indicate,changes in fair value based upon a

10% and 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be easily extrapolated

because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in
fair value may not be linear.Also,in this table,the effect that a change in a

particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without changing

any other assumption.In reality,changes in one factor may result in changes

in another,which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
The valuation allowance represents the extent to which the carrying value 
of MSRs exceeds its estimated fair value for its applicable SFAS 140 strata.

Changes in the valuation allowance are the result of the recognition of

impairment or the recovery of previously recognized impairment charges due to
changes in market conditions during the period.The changes in the valuation

allowance for MSRs were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Balance at January 1
$1,031
$1,378$1,634
Other-than-temporary impairment 
(1)(149)(283)
SFAS 140 impairment (recovery) adjustment
(680)(198)27
Balance at December 31$350
$1,031$1,378
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results,while 2003 results include heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
116JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The Firm recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of its MSRs of $1 million,
$149 million and $283 million,in 2005,2004 and 2003,respectively,which

permanently reduced the gross carrying value of the MSRs and the related

valuation allowance.The permanent reduction precludes subsequent reversals.

This write-down had no impact on the results of operations or financial 

condition of the Firm.Purchased credit card relationships and All other intangible assets
During 2005,purchased credit card relationship intangibles decreased by

$603 million as a result of $703 million in amortization expense,partially 

offset by the purchase of the Sears Canada credit card business.All other

intangible assets decreased by $894 million in 2005 primarily as a result of
$836 million in amortization expense and the impact of the deconsolidation
of Paymentech.Except for $513 million of indefinite-lived intangibles related

to asset management advisory contracts which are not amortized but instead

are tested for impairment at least annually,the remainder of the FirmÕs other

acquired intangible assets are subject to amortization.Note 16ÐPremises and equipment
Premises and equipment,including leasehold improvements,are carried at cost

less accumulated depreciation and amortization.JPMorgan Chase computes

depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of an

asset.For leasehold improvements,the Firm uses the straight-line method

computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or 10
years.JPMorgan Chase has recorded immaterial asset retirement obligations
related to asbestos remediation under SFAS 143 and FIN 47 in those cases

where it has sufficient information to estimate the obligationsÕ fair value.
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisition ordevelopment of internal-use software under SOP 98-1.Once the software is

ready for its intended use,these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis

over the softwareÕs expected useful life,and reviewed for impairment on an

ongoing basis.
The components of credit card relationships,core deposits and other intangible assets were as follows:
20052004NetNet
GrossAccumulatedcarryingGrossAccumulatedcarrying
December 31,(in millions)amountamortizationvalueamountamortizationvalue
Purchased credit card relationships$5,325$2,050$3,275
$5,225$1,347$3,878
All other intangibles:Other credit cardÐrelated intangibles18359124
29523272
Core deposit intangibles3,7971,0922,705
3,7974693,328
Other intangibles2,582579
(a)2,0032,528402
(a)2,126Amortization expense(in millions)(b)200520042003
Purchased credit card relationships$703
$476$256
Other credit cardÐrelated intangibles
3623Ñ
Core deposit intangibles6233306
All other intangibles16311732
Total amortization expense
$1,525
$946$294
(a)Includes $14 million and $16 million for 2005 and 2004,respectively,of amortization expense related to servicing assets on s
ecuritized automobile loans,which is recorded in Asset management,
administration and commissions.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Future amortization expense
The following table presents estimated amortization expenses related to credit card relationships,core deposits and All other i
ntangible assets at December 31,2005:
Other credit (in millions)Purchased creditcard-relatedCore depositAll other
Year ended December 31,card relationshipsintangiblesintangiblesintangible assetsTotal
2006$688$16$547$163$1,414
2007620154691451,249

2008515154021321,064

200937215329123839
201031213276110711
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
117Note 17ÐLong-term debt
JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies,although predominantly U.S.dollars,with both fixed and v
ariable interest rates.
The following table is a summary of long-term debt (including unamortized original issue debt discount and SFAS 133 valuation a
djustments):By remaining contractual maturity at December 31,2005 UnderAfter
20052004(in millions)1 year1Ð5 years5 years
totaltotalParent company
Senior debt:(a)Fixed rate$5,991$14,705$4,224
$24,920
$25,563
Variable rate3,57411,0492,291
16,91415,128Interest rates
(b)2.80Ð6.88%0.22Ð6.63%1.12Ð8.85%
0.22Ð8.85%0.20Ð7.63%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate$758$8,241$15,818
$24,817
$22,055
Variable rateÑ261,797
1,8232,686Interest rates
(b)6.13Ð7.88%4.80Ð10.00%1.92Ð9.88%
1.92Ð10.00%1.92Ð10.00%Subtotal$10,323$34,021$24,130
$68,474
$65,432
SubsidiariesSenior debt:(a)Fixed rate$636$3,746$2,362
$6,744
$6,249
Variable rate5,36421,6325,013
32,00922,097Interest rates
(b)3.00Ð10.95%1.71Ð17.00%1.76Ð13.00%
1.71Ð17.00%1.71Ð13.00%
Subordinated debt:Fixed rate$Ñ$845$285
$1,130
$1,644
Variable rateÑÑÑ
ÑÑInterest rates
(b)Ñ6.13Ð6.70%8.25%
6.13Ð8.25%6.00Ð8.25%
Subtotal$6,000$26,223$7,660
$39,883
$29,990
Total long-term debt$16,323$60,244$31,790
$108,357
(d)(e)(f)$95,422
FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests:
(c)Fixed rate$80$9$376
$465
$775
Variable rate26951,768
1,8895,618Interest rates
(b)3.39Ð7.35%0.51Ð7.00%2.42Ð12.79%
0.51Ð12.79%0.54Ð12.79%
Total FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests$106$104$2,144
$2,354
$6,393
(a)Included are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments.Embedded derivatives separated from hybrid securities in acc
ordance with SFAS 133 are reported at fair value and shown net 
with the host contract on the balance sheet.Changes in fair value of separated derivatives are recorded in Trading revenue.
(b)The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year-end,including non-U.S.dollar fixed and variabl
e-rate issuances,which excludes the effects of related derivative 
instruments.The use of these derivative instruments modifies the FirmÕs exposure to the contractual interest rates disclosed in
 the table above.Including the effects of derivatives,the range 
of modified rates in effect at December 31,2005,for total long-term debt was 0.49% to 17.00%,versus the contractual range of 0.
22% to 17.00% presented in the table above.
(c)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.

(d)At December 31,2005,long-term debt aggregating $27.7 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase,in whole or in p
art,prior to maturity,based upon the terms specified 
in the respective notes.
(e)The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2005 is $16.3 billion in 2006,$1
7.8 billion in 2007,$23.4 billion in 2008,$11.1 billion in 2009,
and $8.0 billion in 2010.(f) Includes $2.3 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31,2005.The aggregate principal amount of these notes at
 their respective maturities is $5.9 billion.
The weighted-average contractual interest rate for total long-term debt was
4.62% and 4.50% as of December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.In order

to modify exposure to interest rate and currency exchange rate movements,

JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instruments,primarily interest rate and

cross-currency interest rate swaps,in conjunction with some of its debt issues.

The use of these instruments modifies the FirmÕs interest expense on the

associated debt.The modified weighted-average interest rate for total long-

term debt,including the effects of related derivative instruments,was 4.65%

and 3.97% as of December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(Parent Company) has guaranteed certain debt of its
subsidiaries,including both long-term debt and structured notes sold as part

of the FirmÕs trading activities.These guarantees rank on a parity with all of

the FirmÕs other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.Guaranteed 

liabilities totaled $170 million and $320 million at December 31,2005 and

2004,respectively.
Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts

that issued guaranteed capital debt securities

At December 31,2005,the Firm had 22 wholly-owned Delaware statutory

business trusts (Òissuer trustsÓ) that issued guaranteed preferred beneficial

interests in the FirmÕs junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures.
The junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the Firm to
the issuer trusts,totaling $11.5 billion and $10.3 billion at December 31,

2005 and 2004,respectively,were reflected in the FirmÕs Consolidated bal-

ance sheets in the Liabilities section under the caption ÒJunior subordinated

deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital

debt securities.ÓThe Firm also records the common capital securities issued

by the issuer trusts in Other assets in its Consolidated balance sheets at
December 31,2005 and 2004.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
118JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The following is a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs preferred stock outstanding as of December 31:
Stated value and
Rate in effect at(in millions,exceptredemption
SharesOutstanding at December 31,
EarliestDecember 31,
per share amounts and rates)price per share
(b)2005200420052004redemption date
20056.63% Series H cumulative(a)$500.00
0.280.28$139
$1393/31/2006
6.63%Fixed/adjustable rate,noncumulative50.00
Ñ4.00Ñ200Ñ
ÑTotal preferred stock
0.284.28$139
$339
(a)Represented by depositary shares.
(b)Redemption price includes amount shown in the table plus any accrued but unpaid dividends.
The debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the Firm,less the capital securities of the issuer trusts,qualify as Tier 1 capit
al.The following is a summary of the outstanding
capital securities,net of discount,issued by each trust and the junior subordinated deferrable interest debenture issued by JPM
organ Chase to each trust as ofDecember 31,2005:
AmountPrincipalStated maturity
of capitalamount ofof capital
securitiesdebenturesecuritiesEarliestInterest rate ofInterest
issuedheldIssueandredemptioncapital securitiespayment/
December 31,2005 (in millions)by trust
(a)by trust(b)datedebenturesdateand debenturesdistribution dates
Bank One Capital III$474$61620002030Any time8.75%Semiannually
Bank One Capital V3003352001203120068.00%Quarterly

Bank One Capital VI5255562001203120067.20%Quarterly

Chase Capital I6006191996202620067.67%Semiannually

Chase Capital II495511199720272007LIBOR + 0.50%Quarterly

Chase Capital III296306199720272007LIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly

Chase Capital VI24925619982028Any timeLIBOR + 0.625%Quarterly

First Chicago NBD Capital I248256199720272007LIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly

First Chicago NBD Institutional Capital A4995511996202620067.95%Semiannually

First Chicago NBD Institutional Capital B2502731996202620067.75%Semiannually

First USA Capital Trust I331996202720079.33%Semiannually

JPM Capital Trust I7507731996202720077.54%Semiannually

JPM Capital Trust II4004121997202720077.95%Semiannually

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital IX5005092001203120067.50%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital X1,0001,0222002203220077.00%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital XI1,0751,0092003203320085.88%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital XII4003932003203320086.25%
QuarterlyJPMorgan Chase Capital XIII472487200420342014LIBOR + 0.95%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XIV6005932004203420096.20%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XV9941,04920052035Any time5.88%Semiannually

JPMorgan Chase Capital XVI5005012005203520106.35%Quarterly
JPMorgan Chase Capital XVII49649920052035Any time5.85%Semiannually
Total$11,126$11,529
(a)Represents the amount of capital securities issued to the public by each trust,net of unamortized discount.
(b)Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures held as assets by each trust,net of unamortized discount amount
s.The principal amount of debentures held by the trusts includes the
impact of hedging and purchase accounting fair value adjustments that are recorded on the FirmÕs financial statements.
Note 18ÐPreferred stock
JPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 200 million shares of preferred stock,in one or more series,with a par value of $1 per share.Outstanding preferred

stock at December 31,2005 and 2004,was 280,433 and 4.28 million

shares,respectively.On May 6,2005,JPMorgan Chase redeemed a total of

4.0 million shares of its Fixed/adjustable rate,noncumulative preferred stock.
Dividends on shares of the outstanding series of preferred stock are payable

quarterly.The preferred stock outstanding takes precedence over JPMorgan

ChaseÕs common stock for the payment of dividends and the distribution of

assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Firm.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
119Note 19ÐCommon stock
At December 31,2005,JPMorgan Chase was authorized to issue 9.0 billion
shares of common stock with a $1 par value per share.In connection with the

Merger,the shareholders approved an increase in the amount of authorized

shares of 4.5 billion from the 4.5 billion that had been authorized as of
December 31,2003.Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from

treasury) by JPMorgan Chase during 2005,2004 and 2003 were as follows:
December 31,(a)(in millions)200520042003
Issued Ð balance at January 1
3,584.82,044.42,023.6
Newly issued:Employee benefits and compensation plans34.069.020.9
Employee stock purchase plans1.43.10.7
Purchase accounting acquisitions and otherÑ1,469.4Ñ
Total newly issued
35.41,541.521.6
Cancelled shares(2.0)(1.1)(0.8)
Total issued Ð balance at December 31
3,618.23,584.82,044.4
Treasury Ð balance at January 1
(28.6)(1.8)(24.9)
Purchase of treasury stock(93.5)(19.3)Ñ
Share repurchases related to employeestock-based awards
(b)(9.4)(7.5)(3.0)
Issued from treasury:Employee benefits and compensation plansÑÑ25.8
Employee stock purchase plansÑÑ0.3
Total issued from treasury
ÑÑ26.1
Total treasury Ð balance at December 31
(131.5)(28.6)(1.8)
Outstanding 3,486.73,556.22,042.6
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Participants in the FirmÕs stock-based incentive plans may have shares withheld to cover
income taxes.The shares withheld amounted to 8.2 million,5.7 million and 2.3 million for

2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.
During 2005 and 2004,the Firm repurchased 93.5 million shares and 
19.3 million shares,respectively,of common stock under a stock repurchase

program that was approved by the Board of Directors on July 20,2004.The

Firm did not repurchase shares of its common stock during 2003 under a
prior stock repurchase program.
As of December 31,2005,approximately 507 million unissued shares of 
common stock were reserved for issuance under various employee or director

incentive,compensation,option and stock purchase plans.
Note 20ÐEarnings per share
SFAS 128 requires the presentation of basic and diluted earnings per share

(ÒEPSÓ) in the income statement.Basic EPS is computed by dividing net

income applicable to common stock by the weighted-average number of

common shares outstanding for the period.Diluted EPS is computed using the

same method as basic EPS but,in the denominator,the number of common

shares reflect,in addition to outstanding shares,the potential dilution that

could occur if convertible securities or other contracts to issue common stock

were converted or exercised into common stock.Net income available for

common stock is the same for basic EPS and diluted EPS,as JPMorgan Chase

had no convertible securities,and therefore,no adjustments to net income

available for common stock were necessary.The following table presents the

calculation of basic and diluted EPS for 2005,2004 and 2003:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except per share amounts)
(a)200520042003
Basic earnings per share
Net income$8,483
$4,466$6,719
Less:preferred stock dividends
135251
Net income applicable to common stock$8,470
$4,414$6,668
Weighted-average basic 
shares outstanding3,491.72,779.92,008.6
Net income per share$2.43
$1.59$3.32
Diluted earnings per share
Net income applicable to common stock$8,470
$4,414$6,668
Weighted-average basic 
shares outstanding3,491.72,779.92,008.6
Add:Broad-based options
3.65.44.1
Restricted stock,restricted stock
units and key employee options
62.065.342.4
Weighted-average diluted 
shares outstanding3,557.32,850.62,055.1
Net income per share(b)$2.38
$1.55$3.24
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) Options issued under employee benefit plans to purchase 280 million,300 million and 
335 million shares of common stock were outstanding for the years ended 2005,2004 and

2003,respectively,but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the

optionsÕ exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares.
Note 21ÐAccumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) includes the after-tax change
in unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities,cash flow hedging activities

and foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of related

derivatives).
AccumulatedYear ended UnrealizedCashother

December 31,(a)gains (losses)Translationflowcomprehensive
(in millions)on AFS securities
(b)adjustmentshedgesincome (loss)
Balance at December 31,2002$731$(6)$502$
1,227Net change(712)Ñ (545)(1,257)
Balance at December 31,200319(6)
(43)(30)
Net change(80)
(c)(2)(d)(96)(178)
Balance at December 31,2004
(61)(8)(139)(208)
Net change(163)
(e)Ñ(f)(255)(418)
Balance at December 31,2005$
(224)$(8)$(394)$(626)
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of the AFS
securities portfolio and retained interests in securitizations recorded in Other assets.
(c) The net change during 2004 was due primarily to rising interest rates and recognition of 
unrealized gains through securities sales.
(d) Includes $280 million of after-tax gains (losses) on foreign currency translation from opera-
tions for which the functional currency is other than the U.S.dollar offset by $(282) million

of after-tax gains (losses) on hedges.
(e)The net change during 2005 was due primarily to higher interest rates,partially offset by
the reversal of unrealized losses through securities sales.
(f) Includes $(351) million of after-tax gains (losses) on foreign currency translation from oper-
ations for which the functional currency is other than the U.S.dollar offset by $351 million

of after-tax gains (losses) on hedges.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
120JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The following table presents the after-tax changes in net unrealized holdings
gains (losses) and the reclassification adjustments in unrealized gains and
losses on AFS securities and cash flow hedges.Reclassification adjustments

include amounts recognized in net income during the current year that had
been previously recorded in Other comprehensive income.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities:
Net unrealized holdings gains (losses)arising during the period,net of taxes
(b)$(1,058)
$41$149
Reclassification adjustment for (gains) lossesincluded in income,net of taxes
(c)895(121)(861)
Net change$(163)
$(80)$(712)
Cash flow hedges:Net unrealized holdings gains (losses)arising during the period,net of taxes
(d)$(283)
$34$86
Reclassification adjustment for (gains) lossesincluded in income,net of taxes
(e)28(130)(631)
Net change$(255)
$(96)$(545)
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Net of income tax expense (benefit) of $(648) million for 2005,$27 million for 2004 and
$92 million for 2003.(c)Net of income tax expense (benefit) of $(548) million for 2005,$79 million for 2004 and
$528 million for 2003.(d)Net of income tax expense (benefit) of $(187) million for 2005,$23 million for 2004 and
$60 million for 2003.(e)Net of income tax expense (benefit) of $(18) million for 2005 and $86 million for 2004 and
$438 million for 2003.Note 22 Ð Income taxesJPMorgan Chase and eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S.federal
income tax return.JPMorgan Chase uses the asset-and-liability method

required by SFAS 109 to provide income taxes on all transactions recorded 

in the Consolidated financial statements.This method requires that income

taxes reflect the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences

between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for book and tax purposes.

Accordingly,a deferred tax liability or asset for each temporary difference is

determined based upon the tax rates that the Firm expects to be in effect

when the underlying items of income and expense are realized.JPMorgan

ChaseÕs expense for income taxes includes the current and deferred portions

of that expense.A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax

assets to the amount the Firm expects to realize.
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of the FirmÕs busi-
nesses,and from conducting business and being taxed in a substantial number

of jurisdictions,significant judgments and estimates are required to be made.

Agreement of tax liabilities between JPMorgan Chase and the many tax 
jurisdictions in which the Firm files tax returns may not be finalized for 
several years.Thus,the FirmÕs final tax-related assets and liabilities may 

ultimately be different.Deferred income tax expense (benefit) results from differences between assetsand liabilities measured for financial reporting and for income-tax return 
purposes.The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are

reflected in the following table:December 31,(in millions)
20052004Deferred tax assets
Allowance for other than loan losses
$3,554
$3,711
Employee benefits3,3812,677Allowance for loan losses
2,7452,739Non-U.S.operations
807743Fair value adjustments
531ÑGross deferred tax assets$11,018
$9,870
Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation and amortization$3,683
$3,558
Leasing transactions
3,1584,266Fee income
1,3961,162Non-U.S.operations
1,2971,144Fair value adjustments
Ñ186Other,net
149348Gross deferred tax liabilities$9,683
$10,664
Valuation allowance
$110
$150
Net deferred tax asset (liability)$1,225
$(944)
A valuation allowance has been recorded in accordance with SFAS 109,
primarily relating to deferred tax assets associated with certain portfolio
investments.
The components of income tax expense included in the Consolidated statements
of income were as follows:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Current income tax expense U.S.federal
$4,269
$1,695$965
Non-U.S.
917679741
U.S.state and local
337181175
Total current expense 
5,5232,5551,881
Deferred income tax (benefit) expense U.S.federal
(2,063)(382)1,341
Non-U.S.
316(322)14
U.S.state and local
(44)(123)73
Total deferred (benefit) expense  
(1,791)(827)1,428
Total income tax expense
$3,732
$1,728$3,309
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effects of unrealized gains and
losses on AFS securities,SFAS 133 hedge transactions and certain tax benefits

associated with the FirmÕs employee stock plans.The tax effect of these items

is recorded directly in StockholdersÕ equity.StockholdersÕ equity increased 

by $425 million,$431 million and $898 million in 2005,2004 and 2003,

respectively,as a result of these tax effects.
U.S.federal income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earnings
of certain non-U.S.subsidiaries,to the extent that such earnings have been

reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time.For 2005,such earnings

approximated $333 million on a pre-tax basis.At December 31,2005,the

cumulative amount of undistributed pre-tax earnings in these subsidiaries
approximated $1.5 billion.It is not practicable at this time to determine the

income tax liability that would result upon repatriation of these earnings.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
121Restrictions imposed by federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase and certain
other affiliates from borrowing from banking subsidiaries unless the loans are
secured in specified amounts.Such secured loans to the Firm or to other 

affiliates are generally limited to 10% of the banking subsidiaryÕs total capital,

as determined by the risk-based capital guidelines;the aggregate amount of

all such loans is limited to 20% of the banking subsidiaryÕs total capital.
The principal sources of JPMorgan ChaseÕs income (on a parent company-only
basis) are dividends and interest from JPMorgan Chase Bank and the other
banking and nonbanking subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase.In addition to 

dividend restrictions set forth in statutes and regulations,the FRB,the OCC

and the FDIC have authority under the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act

to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations
they supervise,including JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries that are banks

or bank holding companies,if,in the banking regulatorÕs opinion,payment of

a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the

financial condition of the banking organization.At January 1,2006 and 2005,JPMorgan ChaseÕs bank subsidiaries could pay,
in the aggregate,$7.4 billion and $6.2 billion,respectively,in dividends to their

respective bank holding companies without prior approval of their relevant

banking regulators.Dividend capacity in 2006 will be supplemented by the

banksÕ earnings during the year.
In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S.and non-U.S.
regulators,as of December 31,2005 and 2004,cash in the amount of 

$6.4 billion and $4.3 billion,respectively,and securities with a fair value of

$2.1 billion and $2.7 billion,respectively,were segregated in special bank

accounts for the benefit of securities and futures brokerage customers.
Note 24ÐCapital
There are two categories of risk-based capital:Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital.

Tier 1 capital includes common stockholdersÕ equity,qualifying preferred stock

and minority interest less goodwill and other adjustments.Tier 2 capital consists

of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1,subordinated long-term debt and

other instruments qualifying as Tier 2,and the aggregate allowance for credit

losses up to a certain percentage of risk-weighted assets.Total regulatory

capital is subject to deductions for investments in certain subsidiaries.Under

the risk-based capital guidelines of the FRB,JPMorgan Chase is required to

maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-

weighted assets,as well as minimum leverage ratios (which are defined as

Tier 1 capital to average adjusted onÐbalance sheet assets).Failure to meet

these minimum requirements could cause the FRB to take action.Bank 

subsidiaries also are subject to these capital requirements by their respective
primary regulators.As of December 31,2005 and 2004,JPMorgan Chase 

and all of its banking subsidiaries were well-capitalized and met all capital
requirements to which each was subject.
On October 22,2004,the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the ÒActÓ) was

signed into law.The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S.companies to

repatriate accumulated foreign earnings at a substantially reduced U.S.effective

tax rate by providing a dividends received deduction on the repatriation of

certain foreign earnings to the U.S.taxpayer (the Òrepatriation provisionÓ).

The new deduction is subject to a number of limitations and requirements.
In the fourth quarter of 2005,the Firm applied the repatriation provision to
$1.9 billion of cash from foreign earnings,resulting in a net tax benefit of

$55 million.The $1.9 billion of cash will be used in accordance with the FirmÕs

domestic reinvestment plan pursuant to the guidelines set forth in the Act.
The tax expense (benefit) applicable to securities gains and losses for 
the years 2005,2004 and 2003 was $(536) million,$126 million and 

$477 million,respectively.
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S.income tax rate to the 
effective tax rate for the past three years is shown in the following table:
Year ended December 31,
(a)200520042003
Statutory U.S.federal tax rate
35.0%35.0%35.0%
Increase (decrease) in tax rate resulting from:

U.S.state and local income taxes,net of
federal income tax benefit
1.60.6(b)2.1Tax-exempt income
(3.0)(4.1)(2.4)
Non-U.S.subsidiary earnings
(1.4)(1.3)(0.7)
Business tax credits(3.6)(4.1)(0.9)
Other,net
2.01.8(0.1)
Effective tax rate
30.6%27.9%33.0%
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)The lower rate in 2004 was attributable to changes in the proportion of income subject to 
different state and local taxes.
The following table presents the U.S.and non-U.S.components of income
before income tax expense:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
U.S.
$8,959
$3,817$7,333
Non-U.S.
(b)3,2562,3772,695
Income before income tax expense$12,215
$6,194$10,028
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) For purposes of this table,non-U.S.income is defined as income generated from operations
located outside the United States of America.
Note 23ÐRestrictions on cash and 
intercompany funds transfers
JPMorgan Chase BankÕs business is subject to examination and regulation by
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (ÒOCCÓ).The Bank is a member

of the Federal Reserve System and its deposits are insured by the Federal

Deposit Insurance Corporation (ÒFDICÓ).
The Federal Reserve Board requires depository institutions to maintain cash
reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank.The average amount of reserve balances

deposited by the FirmÕs bank subsidiaries with various Federal Reserve Banks

was approximately $2.7 billion in 2005 and $3.8 billion in 2004.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
122JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and the FirmÕs significant banking subsidiaries a
t December 31,2005 and 2004:
Tier 1TotalRisk-weightedAdjustedTier 1TotalTier 1
(in millions,except ratios)capital capitalassets
(c)average assets
(d)capital ratiocapital ratioleverage ratio
December 31,2005
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(a)$72,474$102,437$850,643$1,152,5468.5%12.0%6.3%
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.
61,05084,227750,397995,0958.111.26.1
Chase Bank USA,N.A.
8,60810,94172,22959,88211.915.214.4
December 31,2004
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(a)$68,621$96,807$791,373$1,102,4568.7%12.2%6.2%
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.55,48978,478670,295922,8778.311.76.0

Chase Bank USA,N.A.8,72611,18686,95571,79710.012.912.2
Well-capitalized ratios
(b)6.0%10.0%5.0%
(e)Minimum capital ratios
(b)4.08.03.0
(f)(a) Asset and capital amounts for JPMorgan ChaseÕs banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany transactions,whereas the respectiv
e amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions.
(b)  As defined by the regulations issued by the FRB,FDIC and OCC.

(c) Includes offÐbalance sheet risk-weighted assets in the amounts of $279.2 billion,$260.0 billion and $15.5 billion,respectiv
ely,at December 31,2005,and $250.3 billion,$229.6 billion and 
$15.5 billion,respectively,at December 31,2004.
(d) Average adjusted assets for purposes of calculating the leverage ratio include total average assets adjusted for unrealized
 gains/losses on securities,less deductions for disallowed goodwill and 
other intangible assets,investments in subsidiaries and the total adjusted carrying value of nonfinancial equity investments th
at are subject to deductions from Tier 1 capital.
(e) Represents requirements for bank subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporatio
n Improvement Act.There is no Tier 1 leverage component in 
the definition of a well-capitalized bank holding company.
(f) The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio for bank holding companies and banks is 3% or 4% depending on factors specified in regula
tions issued by the FRB and OCC.
The following table shows the components of the FirmÕs Tier 1 and Total capital:
December 31,(in millions)
20052004Tier 1 capitalTotal stockholdersÕ equity
$107,211
$105,653
Effect of net unrealized losses on AFS 
securities and cash flow hedging activities618200Adjusted stockholdersÕ equity107,829105,853Minority interest
(a)12,66011,050Less:Goodwill
43,62143,203Investments in certain subsidiaries401370Nonqualifying intangible assets3,9934,709Tier 1 capital
$72,474
$68,621
Tier 2 capitalLong-term debt and other instrumentsqualifying as Tier 2
$22,733
$ 20,690Qualifying allowance for credit losses
7,4907,798Less:Investments in certain subsidiaries 
and other260302Tier 2 capital
$29,963
$28,186
Total qualifying capital
$102,437
$96,807
(a)Primarily includes trust preferred securities of certain business trusts.
Note 25ÐCommitments and contingencies
At December 31,2005,JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were obligated
under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment

used primarily for banking purposes.Certain leases contain renewal options

or escalation clauses providing for increased rental payments based upon
maintenance,utility and tax increases or require the Firm to perform restoration

work on leased premises.No lease agreement imposes restrictions on the

FirmÕs ability to pay dividends,engage in debt or equity financing transactions,

or enter into further lease agreements.
The following table shows required future minimum rental payments under oper-

ating leases with noncancelable lease terms that expire after December 31,2005:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
2006$993
2007948

2008901

2009834

2010724
After5,334
Total minimum payments required
(a)9,734Less:Sublease rentals under noncancelable subleases(1,323)
Net minimum payment required$8,411
(a)Lease restoration obligations are accrued in accordance with SFAS 13,and are not reported
as a required minimum lease payment.Total rental expense was as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Gross rental expense$1,269
$1,187$1,061
Sublease rental income(192)(158)(106)
Net rental expense$1,077
$1,029$955
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
At December 31,2005,assets were pledged to secure public deposits and for
other purposes.The significant components of the assets pledged were as follows:
December 31,(in billions)
20052004Reverse repurchase/securities borrowing agreements$320
$238
Securities2449Loans7475Other(a)9990Total assets pledged
$517
$452
(a) Primarily composed of trading assets.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
123Litigation reserve
The Firm maintains litigation reserves for certain of its litigations,including 

its material legal proceedings.While the outcome of litigation is inherently

uncertain,management believes,in light of all information known to it at

December 31,2005,that the FirmÕs litigation reserves were adequate at such

date.Management reviews litigation reserves periodically,and the reserves

may be increased or decreased in the future to reflect further litigation devel-
opments.The Firm believes it has meritorious defenses to claims asserted

against it in its currently outstanding litigation and,with respect to such liti-

gation,intends to continue to defend itself vigorously,litigating or settling

cases according to managementÕs judgment as to what is in the best interest

of stockholders.
Note 26ÐAccounting for derivative 
instruments and hedging activitiesDerivative instruments enable end users to increase,reduce or alter exposure
to credit or market risks.The value of a derivative is derived from its reference

to an underlying variable or combination of variables such as equity,foreign

exchange,credit,commodity or interest rate prices or indices.JPMorgan Chase

makes markets in derivatives for customers and also is an end-user of derivatives

in order to manage the FirmÕs exposure to credit and market risks.
SFAS 133,as amended by SFAS 138 and SFAS 149,establishes accounting
and reporting standards for derivative instruments,including those used for

trading and hedging activities,and derivative instruments embedded in other

contracts.All free-standing derivatives,whether designated for hedging rela-

tionships or not,are required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.

The accounting for changes in value of a derivative depends on whether the

contract is for trading purposes or has been designated and qualifies for

hedge accounting.The majority of the FirmÕs derivatives are entered into for

trading purposes.The Firm also uses derivatives as an end user to hedge 

market exposures,modify the interest rate characteristics of related balance

sheet instruments or meet longer-term investment objectives.Both trading and

end-user derivatives are recorded at fair value in Trading assets and Trading

liabilities as set forth in Note 3 on page 94 of this Annual Report.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting,a derivative must be considered highly
effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being hedged.Each

derivative must be designated as a hedge,with documentation of the risk

management objective and strategy,including identification of the hedging

instrument,the hedged item and the risk exposure,and how effectiveness is

to be assessed prospectively and retrospectively.The extent to which a hedging

instrument is effective at achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash

flows must be assessed at least quarterly.Any ineffectiveness must be reported

in current-period earnings.
For qualifying fair value hedges,all changes in the fair value of the derivative
and in the fair value of the item for the risk being hedged are recognized in

earnings.If the hedge relationship is terminated,then the fair value adjust-

ment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the
item and is amortized to earnings as a yield adjustment.For qualifying cash

flow hedges,the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative

is recorded in Other comprehensive income and recognized in the income
statement when the hedged cash flows affect earnings.The ineffectiveportions

of cash flow hedges are immediately recognized in earnings.If the hedge 

relationship is terminated,then the change in fair value of the derivative

recorded in Other comprehensive income is recognized when the cash flows

that were hedged occur,consistent with the original hedge strategy.For hedge
relationships discontinued because the forecasted transaction is not expected to
occur according to the original strategy,any related derivative amounts recorded

in Other comprehensive income are immediately recognizedin earnings.For

qualifying net investment hedges,changes in the fair value of the derivative

or the revaluation of the foreign currencyÐdenominated debt instrument are

recorded in the translation adjustments account within Other comprehensive

income.Any ineffective portions of net investment hedges are immediately

recognized in earnings.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs fair value hedges primarily include hedges of fixed-rate 
long-term debt,loans,AFS securities and MSRs.Interest rate swaps are the most

common type of derivative contract used to modify exposure to interest rate risk,

converting fixed-rate assets and liabilities to a floating rate.Interest rate options,

swaptions and forwards are also used in combination with interest rate swaps 

to hedge the fair value of the FirmÕs MSRs.For a further discussion of MSR risk

management activities,see Note 15 on pages 114
Ð116of 
this Annual Report.
All amounts have been included in earnings consistent with the classification 
of the hedged item,primarily Net interest income,Mortgage fees and related

income,and Other income.The Firm did not recognize any gains or losses during

2005 on firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
JPMorgan Chase also enters into derivative contracts to hedge exposure to
variability in cash flows from floating-rate financial instruments and forecasted

transactions,primarily the rollover of short-term assets and liabilities,and 

foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses.Interest rate swaps,

futures and forward contracts are the most common instruments used to

reduce the impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate changes on

future earnings.All amounts affecting earnings have been recognized consistent

with the classification of the hedged item,primarily Net interest income.
The Firm uses forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency-
denominated debt instruments to protect the value of net investments in 

foreign currencies in non-U.S.subsidiaries.The portion of the hedging instru-

ments excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (forward points)

is recorded in Net interest income.
The following table presents derivative instrument hedging-related activities
for the periods indicated:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)20052004Fair value hedge ineffective net gains/(losses)
(b)$(58)
$199
Cash flow hedge ineffective net gains/(losses)(b)(2)ÑCash flow hedging gains on forecasted transactions that failed to occur
Ñ1(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)Includes ineffectiveness and the components of hedging instruments that have been 
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
Over the next 12 months,it is expected that $44 million (after-tax) of net
gains recorded in Other comprehensive income at December 31,2005,will 

be recognized in earnings.The maximum length of time over which forecasted

transactions are hedged is 10 years,and such transactions primarily relate to

core lending and borrowing activities.
JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of theFirmÕs economic hedges.For example,the Firm does not apply hedge

accounting to standard credit derivatives used to manage the credit risk of

loans and commitments because of the difficulties in qualifying such contracts

as hedges under SFAS 133.Similarly,the Firm does not apply hedge

accounting to certain interest rate derivatives used as economic hedges.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
124JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Note 27ÐOff-balance sheet lending-related
financial instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g.,commitments
and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers.The contractual

amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit
risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment or the Firm fulfills

its obligation under the guarantee,and the counterparty subsequently fails to

perform according to the terms of the contract.Most of these commitments

and guarantees expire without a default occurring or without being drawn.

As a result,the total contractual amount of these instruments is not,in the

FirmÕs view,representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding

requirements.Further,certain commitments,primarily related to consumer

financings,are cancelable,upon notice,at the option of the Firm.
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in wholesale-related contracts,an
allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments is maintained.

See Note 12 on pages 107Ð108 of this Annual Report for a further discussion

on the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments.
The following table summarizes the contractual amounts of offÐbalance 
sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees and the related

allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments at December 31,

2005 and 2004:OffÐbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments 
and guarantees
Allowance for
Contractuallending-related 
amountcommitments
December 31,(in millions)
2005200420052004Lending-related
Consumer$655,596
$601,196
$15
$12
Wholesale:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(a)(b)(c)208,469185,822208183Asset purchase agreements(d)31,09539,33032Standby letters of credit and guarantees
(a)(e)77,19978,084173292Other letters of credit(a)7,0016,16313Total wholesale
323,764309,399385480Total lending-related
$979,360
$910,595
$400
$492
Other guarantees
Securities lending guarantees
(f)$244,316
$220,783
NANADerivatives qualifying as
guarantees
61,75953,312NANA(a) Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $29.3 billion and 
$26.4 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(b) Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $28.3 billion and $22.8 billion at 
December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively,which are not legally binding.In regulatory 

filings with the FRB,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(c) Excludes unfunded commitments to private third-party equity funds of $242 million and
$563 million at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(d) Represents asset purchase agreements to the FirmÕs administered multi-seller asset-backed
commercial paper conduits,which excludes $32.4 billion and $31.7 billion at December 31,

2005 and 2004,respectively,related to conduits that were consolidated in accordance with

FIN 46R,as the underlying assets of the conduits are reported in the FirmÕs Consolidated

balance sheets.It also includes $1.3 billion of asset purchase agreements to other third-

party entities at December 31,2005 and $7.5 billion of asset purchase agreements to 

structured wholesale loan vehicles and other third-party entities at December 31,2004.
(e) Includes unused commitments to issue standby letters of credit of $37.5 billion and 
$38.4 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(f) Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was
$245.0 billion and $221.6 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
FIN 45 establishes accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees,
requiring that a guarantor recognize,at the inception of a guarantee,a liability

in an amount equal to the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing

the guarantee.FIN 45 defines a guarantee as a contract that contingently

requires the Firm to pay a guaranteed party,based upon:(a) changes in an

underlying asset,liability or equity security of the guaranteed party;or (b) a

third partyÕs failure to perform under a specified agreement.The Firm considers

the following offÐbalance sheet lending arrangements to be guarantees under

FIN 45:certain asset purchase agreements,standby letters of credit and finan-

cialguarantees,securities lending indemnifications,certain indemnification

agreements included within third-party contractual arrangements and certain

derivative contracts.These guarantees are described in further detail below.
The fair value at inception of the obligation undertaken when issuing the
guarantees and commitments that qualify under FIN 45 is typically equal to

the net present value of the future amount of premium receivable under the

contract.The Firm has recorded this amount in Other Liabilities with an offset-

ting entry recorded in Other Assets.As cash is received under the contract,

it is applied to the premium receivable recorded in Other Assets,and the 

fair value of the liability recorded at inception is amortized into income as

Lending & deposit related fees over the life of the guarantee contract.The

amount of the liability related to FIN 45guarantees recorded at December 31,

2005 and 2004,excluding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related

commitments and derivative contracts discussed below,was approximately

$313 million and $341 million,respectively.
Unfunded commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend only when a customer has complied with predetermined conditions,and they generally

expire on fixed dates.
The majority of the FirmÕs unfunded commitments are not guarantees as
defined in FIN 45,except for certain asset purchase agreements that are prin-

cipally used as a mechanism to provide liquidity to SPEs,primarily multi-seller

conduits,as described in Note 14 on pages 111Ð113 of this Annual Report.

Some of these asset purchase agreements can be exercised at any time by
the SPEÕs administrator,while others require a triggering event to occur.

Triggering events include,but are not limited to,a need for liquidity,a market

value decline of the assets or a downgrade in the rating of JPMorgan Chase

Bank.These agreements may cause the Firm to purchase an asset from the

SPE at an amount above the assetÕs fair value,in effect providing a guarantee

of the initial value of the reference asset as of the date of the agreement.In

most instances,third-party credit enhancements of the SPE mitigate the FirmÕs

potential losses on these agreements.
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees are conditional lending
commitments issued by JPMorgan Chase to guarantee the performance of 

a customer to a third party under certain arrangements,such as commercial

paper facilities,bond financings,acquisition financings,trade and similar

transactions.Approximately 58% of these arrangements mature within 

three years.The Firm typically has recourse to recover from the customer any

amounts paid under these guarantees;in addition,the Firm may hold cash 

or other highly liquid collateral to support these guarantees.At December 31,

2005 and 2004,the Firm held collateral relating to $9.0 billion and $7.4 billion,

respectively,of these arrangements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
125The Firm holds customersÕ securities under custodial arrangements.At times,
these securities are loaned to third parties,and the Firm issues securities lending

indemnification agreements to the customer that protect the customer against
the risk of loss if the third party fails to return the securities.To support these

indemnification agreements,the Firm obtains from the third party cash or other

highly liquid collateral with a market value exceeding 100% of the value of the

loaned securities.If the third-party borrower fails to return the securities,the Firm

would use the collateral to purchase the securities in the market and would be

exposed if the value of the collateral fell below 100%.The Firm invests third-

party cash collateral received in support of the indemnification agreements.In a

few cases where the cash collateral is invested in resale agreements,the Firm

indemnifies the third party against reinvestment risk.At December 31,2005 and

2004,the Firm held $245.0 billion and $221.6 billion,respectively,in collateral

in support of securities lending indemnification arrangements.Based upon

historical experience,management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
In connection with issuing securities to investors,the Firm may enter into con-
tractual arrangements with third parties that may require the Firm to make a

payment to them in the event of a change in tax law or an adverse interpreta-
tion of tax law.In certain cases,the contract may also include a termination

clause,which would allow the Firm to settle the contract at its fair value;thus,

such a clause would not require the Firm to make a payment under the indemni-

fication agreement.Even without the termination clause,management does not

expect such indemnification agreements to have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition of JPMorgan Chase.The Firm may also enter

into indemnification clauses when it sells a business or assets to a third party,

pursuant to which it indemnifies that third party for losses it may incur due to
actions taken by the Firm prior to the sale.See below for more information

regarding the FirmÕs loan securitization activities.It is difficult to estimate the

FirmÕs maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements,since

this would require an assessment of future changes in tax law and future claims
that may be made against the Firm that have not yet occurred.However,based

upon historical experience,management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
As part of the FirmÕs loan securitization activities,as described in Note 13 on
pages 108Ð111of this Annual Report,the Firm provides representations and

warranties that certain securitized loans meet specific requirements.The Firm

may be required to repurchase the loans and/or indemnify the purchaser of the
loans against losses due to any breaches of such representations or warranties.

Generally,the maximum amount of future payments the Firm would be

required to make under such repurchase and/or indemnification provisions

would be equal to the current amount of assets held by such securitization-
related SPEs as of December 31,2005,plus,in certain circumstances,accrued

and unpaid interest on such loans and certain expenses.The potential loss due

to such repurchase and/or indemnity is mitigated by the due diligence the Firm
performs before the sale to ensure that the assets comply with the requirements
set forth in the representations and warranties.Historically,losses incurred on

such repurchases and/or indemnifications have been insignificant,and therefore

management expects the risk of material loss to be remote.
The Firm is a partner with one of the leading companies in electronic payment
services in a joint venture operating under the name of Chase Paymentech

Solutions,LLC (the Òjoint ventureÓ).The joint venture was formed in October

2005 as a result of an agreement to integrate the FirmÕs jointly-owned Chase

Merchant Services (ÒCMSÓ) and Paymentech merchant businesses,the latter

of which was acquired as a result of the Merger.The joint venture provides

merchant processing services in the United States and Canada.The joint venture

is liable contingently for processed credit card sales transactions in the event
of a dispute between the cardmember and a merchant.If a dispute is

resolved in the cardmemberÕs favor,the joint venture will credit or refund the

amount to the cardmember and charge back the transaction to the merchant.

If the joint venture is unable to collect the amount from the merchant,the

joint venture will bear the loss for the amount credited or refunded to the
cardmember.The joint venture mitigates this risk by withholding settlement,

or by obtaining escrow deposits or letters of credit from certain merchants.

However,in the unlikely event that:1) a merchant ceases operations and is

unable to deliver products,services or a refund;2) the joint venture does not

have sufficient collateral from the merchants to provide customer refunds;

and 3) the joint venture does not have sufficient financial resources to provide
customer refunds,the Firm would be liable to refund the cardholder in 

proportion to its approximate equity interest in the joint venture.For the 

year ended December 31,2005,the joint venture,along with the integrated

businesses of CMS and Paymentech,incurred aggregate credit losses of 

$11 million on $563 billion of aggregate volume processed,of which the

Firm shared liability only on $200 billion of aggregate volume processed.
At December 31,2005,the joint venture held $909 million of collateral.

In 2004,the CMS and Paymentech ventures incurred aggregate credit losses

of $7.1 million on $396 billion of aggregate volume processed,of which the

Firm shared liability only on $205 billion of aggregate volume processed.
At December 31,2004,the CMS and Paymentech ventures held $620 million

of collateral.The Firm believes that,based upon historical experience and the

collateral held by the joint venture,the fair value of the guarantee would not

be different materially from the credit loss allowance recorded by the joint

venture;therefore,the Firm has not recorded any allowance for losses 

in excess of the allowance recorded by the joint venture.
The Firm is a member of several securities and futures exchanges and clearing-
houses both in the United States and overseas.Membership in some of these

organizations requires the Firm to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by

the organization as a result of the default of another member.Such obligation

varies with different organizations.It may be limited to members who dealt with

the defaulting member or to the amount (or a multiple of the amount) of the
FirmÕs contribution to a membersÕ guaranty fund,or,in a few cases,it may be

unlimited.It is difficult to estimate the FirmÕs maximum exposure under these

membership agreements,since this would require an assessment of future claims

that may be made against the Firm that have not yet occurred.However,based

upon historical experience,management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
In addition to the contracts described above,there are certain derivative 
contracts to which the Firm is a counterparty that meet the characteristics of

a guarantee under FIN 45.These derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated

balance sheets at fair value.These contracts include written put options that

require the Firm to purchase assets from the option holder at a specified price
by a specified date in the future,as well as derivatives that effectively guarantee

the return on a counterpartyÕs reference portfolio of assets.The total notional

value of the derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees was $62 billion

and $53 billion at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.The Firm

reduces exposures to these contracts by entering into offsetting transactions

or by entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related to these con-

tracts.The fair value related to these contracts was a derivative receivable of

$198 million and $180 million,and a derivative payable of $767 million and

$622 million at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.Finally,certain

written put options and credit derivatives permit cash settlement and do 

not require the option holder or the buyer of credit protection to own the 
reference asset.The Firm does not consider these contracts to be guarantees

as described in FIN 45.Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
126JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
The table below presents both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet wholesale- and consumer-related credit exposure as of Dece
mber 31,2005 and 2004:
20052004CreditOn-balanceOff-balanceCreditOn-balanceOff-balance
December 31,(in billions)exposure
(b)sheet(b)(c)sheet(d)exposure(b)sheet(b)(c)sheet(d)Wholesale-related:Banks and finance companies$53.7$20.3$33.4
$56.2$25.7$30.5
Real estate32.519.013.5
28.216.711.5
Consumer products26.710.016.7
21.47.114.3
Healthcare25.54.720.8
22.04.517.5
State and municipal governments25.36.119.2
19.84.115.7
All other wholesale389.7169.5220.2
394.6174.7219.9
Total wholesale-related
553.4229.6323.8
542.2232.8309.4
Consumer-related:
Home finance198.6133.565.1
177.9124.753.2
Auto & education finance 54.749.05.7
67.962.75.2
Consumer & small business and other 20.314.85.5
25.415.110.3
Credit card receivables
(a)651.071.7579.3
597.064.5532.5
Total consumer-related
924.6269.0655.6
868.2267.0601.2
Total exposure
$1,478.0$498.6$979.4
$1,410.4$499.8$910.6
(a)Excludes $70.5 billion and $70.8 billion of securitized credit card receivables at December 31,2005 and 2004,respectively.
(b)Includes HFS loans.

(c)Represents loans,derivative receivables and interests in purchased receivables.

(d)Represents lending-related financial instruments.
Note 28ÐCredit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers are engaged in
similar business activities or activities in the same geographic region,or when they

have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual

obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of the credit risk portfolio
to assess potential concentration risks and to obtain collateral when deemed

necessary.In the FirmÕs wholesale portfolio,risk concentrations are evaluated

primarily by industry and by geographic region.In the consumer portfolio,

concentrations are evaluated primarily by product and by U.S.geographic region.
The Firm does not believe exposure to any one loan product with varying
terms (e.g.,interest-only payments for an introductory period) or exposure to

loans with high loan-to-value ratios would result in a significant concentration
of credit risk.Terms of loan products and collateral coverage are included in

the FirmÕs assessment when extending credit and establishing its allowance

for loan losses.
For further information regarding onÐbalance sheet credit concentrations 
by major product and geography,see Note 11 on page 106 of this Annual

Report.For information regarding concentrations of offÐbalance sheet 

lending-related financial instruments by major product,see Note 27 on 

page 124 of this Annual Report.More information about concentrations can
be found in the following tables or discussion in the MD&A:Wholesale exposurePage 65
Wholesale selected industry concentrationsPage 66

Country exposurePage 70
Consumer real estate loan portfolio by geographic locationPage 72
Note 29ÐFair value of financial instruments
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument
could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties,other

than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The accounting for an asset or liability may differ based upon the type of
instrument and/or its use in a trading or investing strategy.Generally,the

measurement framework in the consolidated financial statements is one of

the following:¥  at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets,with changes in fair value
recorded each period in the Consolidated statements of income;¥  at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets,with changes in fair value
recorded each period in a separate component of StockholdersÕ equity and

as part of Other comprehensive income;¥  at cost (less other-than-temporary impairments),with changes in fair value
not recorded in the consolidated financial statements but disclosed in the
notes thereto;or
¥  at the lower of cost or fair value.
The Firm has an established and well-documented process for determining
fair values.Fair value is based upon quoted market prices,where available.

If listed prices or quotes are not available,fair value is based upon internally-

developed models that primarily use market-based or independent information

as inputs to the valuation model.Valuation adjustments may be necessary to

ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.These adjustments

include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality,liquidity and 

concentration concerns and are based upon defined methodologies that 

are applied consistently over time.
¥  Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market price (or
parameter) is not indicative of the credit quality of the counterparty.As 

few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange,the majority of derivative

positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their

basis observable market parameters.Market practice is to quote parameters

equivalent to a AA credit rating;thus,all counterparties are assumed to

have the same credit quality.An adjustment is therefore necessary to

reflect the credit quality of each derivative counterparty and to arrive at

fair value.Without this adjustment,derivative positions would not be

appropriately valued.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
127¥  Liquidity adjustments are necessary when the Firm may not be able to
observe a recent market price for a financial instrument that trades in inactive

(or less active) markets.Thus,valuation adjustments for risk of loss due to

a lack of liquidity are applied to those positions to arrive at fair value.The

Firm tries to ascertain the amount of uncertainty in the initial valuation

based upon the liquidity or illiquidity,as the case may be,of the market in

which the instrument trades and makes liquidity adjustments to the financial

instruments.The Firm measures the liquidity adjustment based upon the

following factors:(1) the amount of time since the last relevant pricing

point;(2) whether there was an actual trade or relevant external quote;

and (3) the volatility of the principal component of the financial instrument.¥  Concentration valuation adjustments are necessary to reflect the cost of
unwinding larger-than-normal market-size risk positions.The cost is deter-

mined based upon the size of the adverse market move that is likely to

occur during the extended period required to bring a position down to a
nonconcentrated level.An estimate of the period needed to reduce,without

market disruption,a position to a nonconcentrated level is generally based

upon the relationship of the position to the average daily trading volume of

that position.Without these adjustments,larger positions would be valued

at a price greater than the price at which the Firm could exit the positions.
Valuation adjustments are determined based upon established policies and are
controlled by a price verification group independent of the risk-taking function.
Economic substantiation of models,prices,market inputs and revenue through

price/input testing,as well as backtesting,is done to validate the appropriateness

of the valuation methodology.Any changes to the valuation methodology are

reviewed by management to ensure the changes are justified.The methods described above may produce a fair value calculation that may
not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values.

Furthermore,the use of different methodologies to determine the fair value 

of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair
value at the reporting date.
Certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are excludedfrom the scope of SFAS 107.Accordingly,the fair value disclosures required

by SFAS 107 provide only a partial estimate of the fair value of JPMorgan

Chase.For example,the Firm has developed long-term relationships with its

customers through its deposit base and credit card accounts,commonly

referred to as core deposit intangibles and credit card relationships.In the

opinion of management,these items,in the aggregate,add significant value

to JPMorgan Chase,but their fair value is not disclosed in this Note.
The following items describe the methodologies and assumptions used,by
financial instrument,to determine fair value.
Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value

The Firm considers fair values of certain financial assets carried at cost Ð including

cash and due from banks,deposits with banks,securities borrowed,short-term

receivables and accrued interest receivable Ð to approximate their respective car-

rying values,due to their short-term nature and generally negligible credit risk.
Assets where fair value differs from cost
The FirmÕs debt,equity and derivative trading instruments are carried at their

estimated fair value.Quoted market prices,when available,are used to determine

the fair value of trading instruments.If quoted market prices are not available,

then fair values are estimated by using pricing models,quoted prices of instru-

ments with similar characteristics,or discounted cash flows.
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements are 

typically short-term in nature and,as such,for a significant majority of the

FirmÕs transactions,cost approximates carrying value.This balance sheet item

also includes structured resale agreements and similar products with long-
dated maturities.To estimate the fair value of these instruments,cash flows

are discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity.
SecuritiesFair values of actively traded securities are determined by the secondary 

market,while the fair values for nonactively traded securities are based upon

independent broker quotations.
DerivativesFair value for derivatives is determined based upon the following:
¥  position valuation,principally based upon liquid market pricing as evidenced
by exchange-traded prices,broker-dealer quotations or related input 

parameters,which assume all counterparties have the same credit rating;
¥  credit valuation adjustments to the resulting portfolio valuation,to reflect
the credit quality of individual counterparties;and
¥  other fair value adjustments to take into consideration liquidity,concentration
and other factors.
For those derivatives valued based upon models with significant unobservable
market parameters,the Firm defers the initial trading profit for these financial

instruments.The deferred profit is recognized in Trading revenue on a systematic

basis (typically straight-line amortization over the life of the instruments) and

when observable market data becomes available.
The fair value of derivative payables does not incorporate a valuation adjustment
to reflect JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit quality.
Interests in purchased receivables
The fair value of variable-rate interests in purchased receivables approximate

their respective carrying amounts due to their variable interest terms and 

negligible credit risk.The estimated fair values for fixed-rate interests in 

purchased receivables are determined using a discounted cash flow analysis

using appropriate market rates for similar instruments.
LoansFair value for loans is determined using methodologies suitable for each type

of loan:¥  Fair value for the wholesale loan portfolio is estimated primarily,using the
cost of credit derivatives,which is adjusted to account for the differences

in recovery rates between bonds,upon which the cost of credit derivatives

is based,and loans.
¥  Fair values for consumer installment loans (including automobile financings)
and consumer real estate,for which market rates for comparable loans 

are readily available,are based upon discounted cash flows adjusted for

prepayments.The discount rates used for consumer installment loans are

current rates offered by commercial banks.For consumer real estate,

secondary market yields for comparable mortgage-backed securities,

adjusted for risk,are used.
¥  Fair value for credit card receivables is based upon discounted expected
cash flows.The discount rates used for credit card receivables incorporate

only the effects of interest rate changes,since the expected cash flows

already reflect an adjustment for credit risk.Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
128JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
¥  The fair value of loans in the held-for-sale and trading portfolios is generally
based upon observable market prices and upon prices of similar instruments,

including bonds,credit derivatives and loans with similar characteristics.If

market prices are not available,the fair value is based upon the estimated cash

flows adjusted for credit risk;that risk is discounted,using a rate appropriate

for each maturity that incorporates the effects of interest rate changes.
Other assets Commodities inventory is carried at the lower of cost or fair value.For the

majority of commodities inventory,fair value is determined by reference to

prices in highly active and liquid markets.The fair value for other commodities

inventory is determined primarily using pricing and other data derived from
less liquid and developing markets where the underlying commodities are

traded.This caption also includes private equity investments and MSRs.For a

discussion of the fair value methodology for private equity investments,see

Note 9 on page 105 of this Annual Report.
For a discussion of the fair value methodology for MSRs,see Note 15 on
pages 114Ð116 of this Annual Report.
Financial liabilitiesLiabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value 

SFAS 107 requires that the fair value for deposit liabilities with no stated

maturity (i.e.,demand,savings and certain money market deposits) be equal

to their carrying value.SFAS 107 does not allow for the recognition of the

inherent funding value of these instruments.
Fair value of commercial paper,other borrowed funds,accounts payable and
accrued liabilities is considered to approximate their respective carrying values

due to their short-term nature.
Interest-bearing deposits
Fair values of interest-bearing deposits are estimated by discounting cash

flows based upon the remaining contractual maturities of funds having simi-

lar interest rates and similar maturities.
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase
agreements

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements 

are typically short-term in nature;as such,for a significant majority of these

transactions,cost approximates carrying value.This balance sheet item also

includes structured repurchase agreements and similar products with long-dated
maturities.To estimate the fair value of these instruments,the cash flows are

discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs (Òbeneficial interestsÓ) are

generally short-term in nature and,as such,for a significant majority of the

FirmÕs transactions,cost approximates carrying value.The Consolidated 

balance sheets also include beneficial interests with long-dated maturities.

The fair value of these instruments is based upon current market rates.
Long-term debt-related instruments
Fair value for long-term debt,including the junior subordinated deferrable interest

debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities,is based

upon current market rates and is adjusted for JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit quality.
Lending-related commitments
Although there is no liquid secondary market for wholesale commitments,the

Firm estimates the fair value of its wholesale lending-related commitments

primarily using the cost of credit derivatives (which is adjusted to account 

for the difference in recovery rates between bonds,upon which the cost of

credit derivatives is based,and loans) and loan equivalents (which represent

the portion of an unused commitment expected,based upon the FirmÕs 

average portfolio historical experience,to become outstanding in the event an

obligor defaults).The Firm estimates the fair value of its consumer commitments

to extend credit based upon the primary market prices to originate new 

commitments.It is the change in current primary market prices that provides

the estimate of the fair value of these commitments.On this basis,at

December 31,2005,the estimated fair value of the FirmÕs lending-related

commitments was a liability of $0.5 billion,compared with $0.1 billion at

December 31,2004.
The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of financial assets and liabilities valued under SFAS 
107;accordingly,certain assets and 
liabilities that are not considered financial instruments are excluded from the table.
20052004Carrying EstimatedAppreciation/Carrying EstimatedAppreciation/
December 31,(in billions)valuefair value(depreciation)valuefair value(depreciation)
Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value
$155.4$155.4$Ñ
$125.7$125.7$Ñ
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
134.0134.30.3
101.4101.3(0.1)
Trading assets
298.4298.4Ñ
288.8288.8Ñ
Securities 47.647.6Ñ
94.594.5Ñ
Loans:Wholesale,net of allowance for loan losses
147.7150.22.5
132.0134.62.6
Consumer,net of allowance for loan losses
264.4262.7(1.7)
262.8262.5(0.3)
Interests in purchased receivables
29.729.7Ñ
31.731.80.1
Other assets53.454.71.3
50.451.10.7
Total financial assets
$1,130.6$1,133.0$2.4
$1,087.3$1,090.3$3.0
Financial liabilitiesLiabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value
$241.0$241.0$Ñ
$228.8$228.8$Ñ
Interest-bearing deposits411.9411.70.2
385.3385.5(0.2)
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
125.9125.9Ñ
127.8127.8Ñ
Trading liabilities
145.9145.9Ñ
151.2151.2Ñ
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
42.242.10.1
48.148.00.1
Long-term debt-related instruments119.9120.6(0.7)
105.7107.7(2.0)
Total financial liabilities
$1,086.8$1,087.2$(0.4)
$1,046.9$1,049.0$(2.1)
Net appreciation$2.0
$0.9
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
129Income before For the year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)Revenue(b)Expense(c)income taxesNet income
2005Europe/Middle East and Africa
$7,708$5,454$2,254$1,547
Asia and Pacific
2,8402,048792509
Latin America and the Caribbean
969497472285
Other165897644
Total international
11,6828,0883,5942,385
Total U.S.
42,85134,2308,6216,098
Total 
$54,533$42,318$12,215$8,483
2004Europe/Middle East and Africa$6,566$4,635$1,931$1,305

Asia and Pacific2,6311,766865547

Latin America and the Caribbean816411405255
Other112773525
Total international10,1256,8893,2362,132
Total U.S.32,97230,0142,9582,334
Total $43,097$36,903$6,194$4,466
2003Europe/Middle East and Africa$6,344$4,076$2,268$1,467

Asia and Pacific1,9021,77213091

Latin America and the Caribbean1,000531469287
Other50173334
Total international9,2966,3962,9001,879
Total U.S.24,08816,9607,1284,840
Total $33,384$23,356$10,028$6,719
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Revenue is composed of Net interest income and noninterest revenue.

(c)Expense is composed of Noninterest expense and Provision for credit losses.
Note 30 Ð International operations 
The following table presents income statement information of JPMorgan
Chase by major geographic area.The Firm defines international activities as

business transactions that involve customers residing outside of the United

States,and the information presented below is based primarily upon the

domicile of the customer.However,many of the FirmÕs U.S.operations serve

international businesses.
As the FirmÕs operations are highly integrated,estimates and subjective

assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and expense between
U.S.and international operations.These estimates and assumptions are 

consistent with the allocations used for the FirmÕs segment reporting as set

forth in Note 31 on pages 130Ð131 of this Annual Report.
The FirmÕs long-lived assets for the periods presented are not considered by
management to be significant in relation to total assets.The majority of the

FirmÕs long-lived assets are located in the United States.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
130JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Note 31 Ð Business segments JPMorgan Chase is organized into six major reportable business segments(the Investment Bank,Retail Financial Services,Card Services,Commercial

Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management),as

well as a Corporate segment.The segments are based upon the products and

services provided or the type of customer served,and they reflect the manner

in which financial information is currently evaluated by management.Results

of these lines of business are presented on an operating basis.For a definition

of operating basis,see the footnotes to the table below.For a further 

discussion concerning JPMorgan ChaseÕs business segments,see Business

segment results on pages 34Ð35 of this Annual Report.
In the third quarter of 2004,in connection with the Merger,business segment

reporting was realigned to reflect the new business structure of the combined

Firm.Treasury was transferred from the Investment Bank into Corporate.The

segment formerly known as Chase Financial Services had been comprised of
Chase Home Finance,Chase Cardmember Services,Chase Auto Finance,

Chase Regional Banking and Chase Middle Market;as a result of the Merger,

this segment is now called Retail Financial Services and is comprised of Home
Finance,Auto & Education Finance,Consumer & Small Business Banking and

Insurance.Chase Cardmember Services is now its own segment called Card

Services,and Chase Middle Market moved into Commercial Banking.

Investment Management & Private Banking was renamed Asset & Wealth

Management.JPMorgan Partners,which formerly was a stand-alone business

segment,was moved into Corporate.Corporate currently comprises Private

Equity (JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners) and Treasury,and the  
Segment results and reconciliation
(a)(table continued on next page)Year ended December 31,
(b)Investment Bank(d)Retail Financial ServicesCard Services
(e)Commercial Banking(in millions,except ratios)
200520042003
200520042003
200520042003
200520042003
Noninterest revenue$13,168
$11,280$11,017
$4,625
$3,077$2,208
$3,563
$2,371$1,092
$986
$682$393
Netinterest income
1,4101,3251,667
10,2057,7145,220
11,8038,3745,052
2,6101,692959
Total net revenue
14,57812,60512,684
14,83010,7917,428
15,36610,7456,144
3,5962,3741,352
Provision for credit losses(838)(640)(181)
724449521
7,3464,8512,904
73416
Credit reimbursement(to)/from TSS(c)15490(36)
ÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑMerger costsÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑLitigation reserve chargeÑÑ100
ÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑOther noninterest expense9,7398,6968,202
8,5856,8254,471
4,9993,8832,178
1,8721,343822
Total noninterest expense
9,7398,6968,302
8,5856,8254,471
4,9993,8832,178
1,8721,343822
Income (loss) beforeincome tax expense5,8314,6394,527
5,5213,5172,436
3,0212,0111,062
1,651990524
Income tax expense(benefit)
2,1731,6911,722
2,0941,318889
1,114737379
644382217
Net income (loss)$3,658
$2,948$2,805
$3,427
$2,199$1,547
$1,907
$1,274$683
$1,007
$608$307
Average equity
$20,000
$17,290$18,350
$13,383
$9,092$4,220
$11,800
$7,608$3,440
$3,400
$2,093$1,059
Average assets
598,118473,121436,488
226,368185,928147,435
141,93394,74151,406
56,56136,43516,460
Return on average equity
18%17%15%
26%24%37%
16%17%20%
30%29%29%
Overhead ratio
676965
586360
333635
525761
(a)In addition to analyzing the FirmÕs results on a reported basis,management reviews the line of business results on an Òopera
ting basis,Ówhich is a non-GAAP financial measure.The definition of oper-
ating basis starts with the reported U.S.GAAP results.In the case of the Investment Bank,operating basis noninterest revenue in
cludes,in Trading revenue,Net interest income (ÒNIIÓ) related to trad-
ing activities.In the case of Card Services,refer to footnote (e).These adjustments do not change JPMorgan ChaseÕs reported net
 income.Operating basis also excludes Merger costs,nonoperating
Litigation reserve charges and accounting policy conformity adjustments,as management believes these items are not part of the 
FirmÕs normal daily business operations (and,therefore,not indicative
of trends) and do not provide meaningful comparisons with other periods.Finally,operating results reflect revenues (Noninterest
 revenue and NII) on a tax-equivalent basis.Refer to footnote (f) for the
impact of these adjustments.
(b) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 refle
cts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(c)TSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures the IB manages on behalf of clients the segments share.At the time of t
he Merger,the reimbursement methodology was revised to be based upon pre-tax
earnings,net of the cost of capital related to those exposures.Prior to the Merger,the credit reimbursement was based upon pre-
tax earnings,plus the allocated capital associated with the shared clients.
(d)Segment operating results include the reclassification of NII related to trading activities to Trading revenue within Nonint
erest revenue,which impacts primarily the Investment Bank.Trading-related NII
reclassified to Trading revenue was $159 million,$2.0 billion and $2.1 billion in 2005,2004 and 2003,respectively.These amounts
 are eliminated in Corporate/reconciling items to arrive at NII and
Noninterest revenue on a reported GAAP basis for JPMorgan Chase.
(e)Operating results for Card Services exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on revenue,provision for credit losses
 and average assets,as JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they
were still on the balance sheet in evaluating the overall performance of the credit card portfolio.These adjustments are elimin
ated in Corporate/reconciling items to arrive at the FirmÕs reported GAAP
results.The related securitization adjustments were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(b)200520042003
Net interest income$6,494
$5,251$ 3,320
Noninterest revenue(2,718)(2,353)(1,450)
Provision for credit losses3,7762,8981,870
Average assets
67,18051,08432,365
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
131(table continued from previous page)Corporate/
Treasury & Securities ServicesAsset & Wealth Managementreconciling items
(d)(e)(f)Total
200520042003
200520042003
200520042003
200520042003
$4,179
$3,474$2,661
$4,583
$3,383$2,482
$3,598
$2,069$566
$34,702
$26,336$20,419
2,0621,383947
1,081796488
(9,340)(4,523)(1,368)
19,83116,76112,965
6,2414,8573,608
5,6644,1792,970
(5,742)(2,454)(802)
54,53343,09733,384
Ñ71(56)(14)35
(3,766)(2,150)(g)(1,746)3,4832,5441,540
(154)(90)36
ÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑ722(h)1,365(h)Ñ7221,365Ñ
ÑÑÑÑÑÑ2,5643,700Ñ
2,5643,700100
4,4704,1133,028
3,8603,1332,486
2,0241,301529
35,54929,29421,716
4,4704,1133,028
3,8603,1332,486
5,3106,366529
38,83534,35921,816
1,617647615
1,8601,060449
(7,286)(6,670)415
12,2156,19410,028
580207193
644379162
(3,517)(2,986)(253)
3,7321,7283,309
$1,037
$440$422
$1,216
$681$287
$(3,769)
$(3,684)$668
$8,483
$4,466$6,719
$1,900
$2,544$2,738
$2,400
$3,902$5,507
$52,624
$33,112$7,674
$105,507
$75,641$42,988
26,94723,43018,379
41,59937,75133,780
93,540111,15072,030
1,185,066962,556775,978
55%17%15%
51%17%5%
NMNMNM
8%6%16%
728584
687584
NMNMNM
718065
(f)Segment operating results reflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis with the corresponding income tax impact recorded withi
n income tax expense.Tax-equivalent adjustments were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(b)200520042003
Net interest income$269
$6$ 44
Noninterest revenue57131789
Income tax expense840323133
These adjustments are eliminated in Corporate/reconciling items to arrive at the FirmÕs reported GAAP results.
(g)Includes $858 million of accounting policy conformity adjustments consisting of approximately $1.4 billion related to the de
certification of the sellerÕs retained interest in credit card securitizations,
partially offset by a benefit of $584 million related to conforming wholesale and consumer provision methodologies for the combined Firm.(h)Merger costs attributed to the lines of business for 2005 and 2004 were as follows (there were no merger costs in 2003):
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(b)20052004Investment Bank
$32
$74
Retail Financial Services133201Card Services22279Commercial Banking
323Treasury & Securities Services
9568Asset & Wealth Management Services
6031Corporate
177889.corporate support areas,which include Central Technology and Operations,
Audit,Executive Office,Finance,Human Resources,Marketing &

Communications,Office of the General Counsel,Corporate Real Estate and

General Services,Risk Management,and Strategy and Development.

Beginning January 1,2006,TSS will report results for two divisions:TS and

WSS.WSS was formed by consolidating IS and ITS.
The following table provides a summary of the FirmÕs segment results for 2005,
2004 and 2003 on an operating basis.The impact of credit card securitizations,

Merger costs,nonoperating Litigation reserve charges and accounting policy

conformity adjustments have been included in Corporate/reconciling items so

that the total Firm results are on a reported basis.Finally,commencing with the

first quarter of 2005,operating revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest
income) for each of the segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent

basis.Accordingly,revenue from tax exempt securities and investments that

receive tax credits are presented in the operating results on a basis comparable

to taxable securities and investments.This approach allows management to

assess the comparability of revenues arising from both taxable and tax-exempt

sources.The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is

recorded within income tax expense.The Corporate sectorÕs and the FirmÕs

operating revenue and income tax expense for the periods prior to the first

quarter of 2005 have been restated to be presented similarly on a tax-equivalent

basis.This restatement had no impact on the Corporate sectorÕs or the FirmÕs

operating earnings.Segment results for periods prior to July 1,2004,reflect

heritage JPMorgan ChaseÐonly results and have been restated to reflect the
current business segment organization and reporting classifications.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
132JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Note 32 Ð Parent company
Parent company Ð statements of income
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
IncomeDividends from bank and bankholding company subsidiaries$2,361
$1,208$2,436
Dividends from nonbank subsidiaries(b)7917732,688
Interest income from subsidiaries2,3691,370945
Other interest income209137130
Other income from subsidiaries,primarily fees:
Bank and bank holding company246833632
Nonbank 462499385
Other income13204(25)
Total income
6,4515,0247,191
ExpenseInterest expense to subsidiaries(b)846603422
Other interest expense3,0761,8341,329
Compensation expense369353348
Other noninterest expense4961,105747
Total expense
4,7873,8952,846
Income before income tax benefit and 
undistributed net income of subsidiaries1,6641,1294,345
Income tax benefit852556474
Equity in undistributed net income (loss) 
of subsidiaries5,9672,7811,900
Net income$8,483
$4,466$6,719
Parent company Ð balance sheets
December 31,(in millions)
20052004AssetsCash with banks,primarily with bank subsidiaries
$461
$513
Deposits with banking subsidiaries
9,45210,703Securities purchased under resale agreements,
primarily with nonbank subsidiaries
24ÑTrading assets
7,5483,606Available-for-sale securities 
2852,376Loans338162Advances to,and receivables from,subsidiaries:
Bank and bank holding company22,67319,076Nonbank31,34234,456Investment (at equity) in subsidiaries:Bank and bank holding company110,745105,599Nonbank(b)21,36717,701Goodwill and other intangibles804890Other assets10,55311,557Total assets
$215,592
$206,639
Liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
Borrowings from,and payables to,subsidiaries
(b)$16,511
$14,195
Other borrowed funds,primarily commercial paper
15,67515,050Other liabilities7,7216,309Long-term debt(c)68,47465,432Total liabilities
108,381100,986StockholdersÕ equity107,211105,653Total liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
$215,592
$206,639
Parent company Ð statements of cash flows
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200520042003
Operating activities
Net income$8,483
$4,466$6,719
Less:Net income of subsidiaries
9,1194,7627,017
Parent company net loss
(636)(296)(298)
Add:Cash dividends from subsidiaries
(b)2,8911,9645,098
Other,net
(130)(81)(272)
Net cash provided by operating activities
2,1251,5874,528
Investing activitiesNet cash change in:Deposits with banking subsidiaries1,2511,851(2,560)
Securities purchased under resale agreements,
primarily with nonbank subsidiaries
(24)35599
Loans(176)407(490)
Advances to subsidiaries
(483)(5,772)(3,165)
Investment (at equity) in subsidiaries(2,949)(4,015)(2,052)
Other,net
341112
Available-for-sale securities:
Purchases(215)(392)(607)
Proceeds from sales and maturities 124114654
Cash received in business acquisitionsÑ4,608Ñ
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities(2,438)(2,833)(8,109)
Financing activitiesNet cash change in borrowings from subsidiaries(b)2,3169412,005
Net cash change in other borrowed funds625(1,510)(2,104)
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt15,99212,81612,105
Repayments of long-term debt(10,864)(6,149)(6,733)
Proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
6828481,213
Redemption of preferred stock (200)(670)Ñ
Treasury stock purchased
(3,412)(738)Ñ
Cash dividends paid
(4,878)(3,927)(2,865)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities2611,6113,621
Net increase (decrease) in cash with banks(52)36540
Cash with banksat the beginning of the year513148108
Cash with banks at the end of the year,primarily with bank subsidiaries
$461
$513$148
Cash interest paid$3,838
$2,383$1,918
Cash income taxes paid
$3,426
$701$754
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.For a

further discussion of the Merger,see Note 2 on pages 92Ð93 of this Annual Report.
(b)Subsidiaries include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (Òissuer trustsÓ).
As a result of FIN 46,the Parent deconsolidated these trusts in 2003.The Parent received

dividends of $21 million and $15 million from the issuer trusts in 2005 and 2004,respec-

tively.For a further discussion on these issuer trusts,see Note 17 on pages 117Ð118 of 

this Annual Report.
(c)At December 31,2005,debt that contractually matures in 2006 through 2010 totaled
$10.3 billion,$9.5 billion,$11.9 billion,$8.8 billion and $3.8 billion,respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
133Supplementary information
Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)
(in millions,except per share,ratio and headcount data)
2005(f)2004As of or for the period ended 4th3rd2nd1st4th
(f)3rd(f)2nd(h)1st(h)Selected income statement dataNoninterest revenue$8,925$9,613$7,742$8,422
$7,621$7,053$5,637$6,025
Net interest income4,7534,8525,0015,225
5,3295,4522,9942,986
Total net revenue
13,67814,46512,74313,647
12,95012,5058,6319,011
Provision for credit losses1,2241,245
(g)587427
1,1571,16920315
Noninterest expense before Merger costs and Litigation reserve charge8,6669,2438,7488,892
8,8638,6255,7136,093
Merger costs77221279145
52375290Ñ
Litigation reserve charge(208)Ñ1,872900
ÑÑ3,700Ñ
Total noninterest expense
8,5359,46410,8999,937
9,3869,3779,5036,093
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)3,9193,7561,2573,283
2,4071,959(1,075)2,903
Income tax expense (benefit)1,2211,2292631,019
741541(527)973
Net income (loss)$2,698$2,527$994$2,264
$1,666$1,418$(548)$1,930
Per common share
Net income (loss) per share:Basic
$0.78$
0.72 $0.28$0.64
$0.47$0.40$(0.27)$0.94
Diluted0.760.71 0.280.63
0.460.39(0.27)0.92
Cash dividends declared per share0.340.34 0.340.34
0.340.340.340.34
Book value per share
30.7130.26 29.9529.78
29.6129.4221.5222.62
Common shares outstanding

Average:Basic
3,4723,4853,4933,518
3,5153,5142,0432,032
Diluted 3,5643,5483,5483,570
3,6023,5922,0432,093
Common shares at period end3,4873,503 3,514 3,525
3,5563,5642,0882,082
Selected ratios

Return on common equity (ÒROEÓ)(a)10%9%4%9%
6%5%NM17%
Return on assets (ÒROAÓ)
(a)(b)0.890.840.340.79
0.570.50NM1.01
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.58.28.28.6
8.78.68.2%8.4
Total capital ratio
12.011.311.311.9
12.212.011.211.4
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.36.26.26.3
6.26.55.55.9
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)
Total assets
$1,198,942$
1,203,033$1,171,283$1,178,305
$1,157,248$1,138,469$817,763$801,078
Securities47,60068,69758,57375,251
94,51292,81664,91570,747
Total loans
419,148420,504416,025402,669
402,114393,701225,938217,630
Deposits554,991535,123534,640531,379
521,456496,454346,539336,886
Long-term debt108,357101,853101,18299,329
95,42291,75452,98150,062
Common stockholdersÕ equity107,072105,996105,246105,001
105,314104,84444,93247,092
Total stockholdersÕ equity
107,211106,135105,385105,340
105,653105,85345,94148,101
Credit quality metrics

Allowance for credit losses
$7,490$
7,615$7,233$7,423
$7,812$8,034$4,227$4,417
Nonperforming assets(c)2,5902,8392,8322,949
3,2313,6372,4822,882
Allowance for loan losses to total loans
(d)1.84%1.86%1.76%1.82%
1.94%2.01%1.92%2.08%
Net charge-offs$1,360$870$773$816
$1,398$865$392$444
Net charge-off rate
(a)(d)1.39%0.89%0.82%0.88%
1.46%0.93%0.78%0.92%
Wholesale net charge-off (recovery) rate
(a)(d)0.07(0.12)(0.16)(0.03)
0.21(0.07)0.290.50
Managed Card net charge-off rate
(a)6.394.704.874.83
5.244.885.855.81
Headcount168,847
168,955168,708164,381
160,968162,27594,61596,010
Share price
(e)High$40.56$
35.95$36.50$39.69
$40.45$40.25$42.57$43.84
Low32.9233.3133.3534.32
36.3235.5034.6236.30
Close39.6933.9335.3234.60
39.0139.7338.7741.95
(a)Based upon annualized amounts.
(b)Represents Net income divided by Total average assets.

(c)Excludes wholesale purchased held-for-sale (ÒHFSÓ) loans purchased as part of the Investment BankÕs proprietary activities.

(d)Excluded from the allowance coverage ratios were end-of-period loans held-for-sale;and excluded from the net charge-off rate
s were average loans held-for-sale.
(e)JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
(f)Quarterly results include three months of the combined FirmÕs results.

(g)Includes a $400 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina allocated as follows:Retail Financial Services $250 m
illion,Card Services $100 million,Commercial Banking $35 million,
Asset & Wealth Management $3 million and Corporate $12 million.
(h)Heritage JPMorgan Chase results only.

NM Ð Not meaningful due to net loss.
134JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Glossary of terms
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
ACH:
Automated Clearing House.
APB:Accounting Principles Board Opinion.APB 25:ÒAccounting for Stock Issued to Employees.Ó
Assets under management:Represent assets actively managed byAsset & Wealth Management on behalf of institutional,private banking,

private client services and retail clients.Excludes assets managed by American

Century Companies,Inc.,in which the Firm has a 43% ownership interest.
Assets under supervision:Represent assets under management as well ascustody,brokerage,administration and deposit accounts.
Average managed assets:
Refers to total assets on the FirmÕs balance
sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
Contractual credit card charge-off:
In accordance with the Federal
Financial Institutions Examination Council policy,credit card loans are

charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days
past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bank-
ruptcy,whichever is earlier.
Core deposits:
U.S.deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation,up to the legal limit of $100,000 per depositor.
Credit derivatives
are contractual agreements that provide protection
against a credit event of one or more referenced credits.The nature of a 

credit event is established by the protection buyer and protection seller at the
inception of a transaction,and such events include bankruptcy,insolvency

and failure to meet payment obligations when due.The buyer of the credit

derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller

upon the occurrence,if any,of a credit event.
Credit cycle:
a period of time over which credit quality improves,deteriorates
and then improves again.While portfolios may differ in terms of risk,the

credit cycle is typically driven by many factors,including market events and

the economy.The duration of a credit cycle can vary from a couple of years 

to several years.
FASB:
Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FIN 39:FASB Interpretation No.39,ÒOffsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Contracts.Ó
FIN 41:FASB Interpretation No.41,ÒOffsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements.Ó
FIN 45:FASB Interpretation No.45,ÒGuarantorÕs Accounting and 
Disclosure Requirement for Guarantees,including Indirect Guarantees of

Indebtedness of Others.Ó
FIN 46R:FASB Interpretation No.46 (revised December 2003),
ÒConsolidation of Variable Interest Entities,an interpretation of Accounting

Research Bulletin No.51.Ó
FIN 47:FASB Interpretation No.47,ÒAccounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations Ð an interpretation of FASB Statement No.143.Ó
FSP SFAS 106-2:
ÒAccounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.Ó
Interests in Purchased Receivables:
Represent an ownership interest in a percentage of cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables transferred by

a third-party seller into a bankruptcy remote entity,generally a trust,and then

financed through a commercial paper conduit.Investment-grade:
An indication of credit quality based upon JPMorganChaseÕs internal risk assessment system.ÒInvestment-gradeÓgenerally 

represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a BBB-/Baa3 or better,as

defined by independent rating agencies.
Mark-to-market exposure:
A measure,at a point in time,of the value 
of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market.When the 

mark-to-market value is positive,it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan

Chase and,therefore,creates a repayment risk for the Firm.When the mark-

to-market value is negative,JPMorgan Chase owes the counterparty.In this

situation,the Firm does not have repayment risk.
Master netting agreement:
An agreement between two counterpartiesthat have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the

net settlement of all contracts through a single payment,in a single currency,

in the event of default on or termination of any one contract.See FIN 39.
NA:Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
The average rate for interest-
earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
NM:Not meaningful.Nonoperating litigation reserve charges and recoveries
are the $208 million insurance recovery in the fourth quarter of 2005;the $1.9 billion

charge taken in the second quarter of 2005;the $900 million charge taken 

in the first quarter of 2005;and the $3.7 billion charge taken in the second

quarter of 2004;all of which relate to the legal cases named in the JPMorgan

Chase Quarterly Report on Form 10ÐQ for the quarter ended September 30,

2004.Overhead ratio:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.
Return on common equity-goodwill:Represents net income applicableto common stock divided by total average common equity (net of goodwill).

The Firm uses return on equity less goodwill,a non-GAAP financial measure,

to evaluate the operating performance of the Firm.The Firm also utilizes this

measure to facilitate operating comparisons to other competitors.
SFAS:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS 13:
ÒAccounting for Leases.Ó
SFAS 87:
ÒEmployersÕ Accounting for Pensions.Ó
SFAS 88:
ÒEmployersÕ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of
Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits.Ó
SFAS 106:
ÒEmployersÕ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits 
Other Than Pensions.Ó
SFAS 107:
ÒDisclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments.Ó
SFAS 109:
ÒAccounting for Income Taxes.Ó
SFAS 114:
ÒAccounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan.Ó
SFAS 115:
ÒAccounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.Ó
SFAS 123:
ÒAccounting for Stock-Based Compensation.Ó
SFAS 123R:
ÒShare-Based Payment.Ó
SFAS 128:
ÒEarnings per Share.Ó
SFAS 133:
ÒAccounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.Ó
SFAS 138:
ÒAccounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain
Hedging Activities Ð an amendment of FASB Statement No.133.Ó
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
135Glossary of terms
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
SFAS 140:
ÒAccounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities Ð a replacement of FASB Statement No.125.Ó
SFAS 142:
ÒGoodwill and Other Intangible Assets.Ó
SFAS 143:
ÒAccounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.Ó
SFAS 149:
ÒAmendment of Statement No.133 on Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities.Ó
SFAS 155:
ÒAccounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments Ð an amend-
mentof FASB Statements No.133 and 140.Ó
Staff Accounting Bulletin (ÒSABÓ) 107:
ÒApplication of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No.123 (revised 2004),Share-Based Payment.Ó
Statement of Position (ÒSOPÓ) 98-1:
ÒAccounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.Ó
Stress testing:
A scenario that measures market risk under unlikely but
plausible events in abnormal markets.
U.S.GAAP:
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States 
of America.U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
Obligations of theU.S.government or an instrumentality of the U.S.government whose obligations

are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and

interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S.government.
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations:
Obligations ofagencies originally established or chartered by the U.S.government to serve

public purposes as specified by the U.S.Congress;these obligations are not

explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the

full faith and credit of the U.S.government.
Value-at-Risk (ÒVARÓ):
A measure of the dollar amount of potential lossfrom adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Forward-looking statements
From time to time,the Firm has made and will make forward-looking state-
ments.These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate

strictly to historical or current facts.Forward-looking statements often use

words such as Òanticipate,ÓÒtarget,ÓÒexpect,ÓÒestimate,ÓÒintend,ÓÒplan,Ó

Ògoal,ÓÒbelieve,ÓÒanticipateÓor other words of similar meaning.Forward-

looking statements provide JPMorgan ChaseÕs current expectations or forecasts

of future events,circumstances,results or aspirations.JPMorgan ChaseÕs 

disclosures in this report contain forward-looking statements within the

meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.The Firm 

also may make forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or

furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission (ÒSECÓ).In addition,

the FirmÕs senior management may make forward-looking statements orally 

to analysts,investors,representatives of the media and others.
All forward-looking statements,by their nature,are subject to risks and
uncertainties.JPMorgan ChaseÕs actual future results may differ materially

from those set forth in its forward-looking statements.Factors that could

cause this differenceÑmany of which are beyond the FirmÕs controlÑinclude

the following:local,regional and international business,political or economic

conditions;changes in trade,monetary and fiscal policies and laws;techno-

logical changes instituted by the Firm and by other entities which may affectthe FirmÕs business;mergers and acquisitions,including the FirmÕs ability to

integrate acquisitions;ability of the Firm to develop new products and services;

acceptance of new products and services and the ability of the Firm to
increase market share;ability of the Firm to control expenses;competitive

pressures;changes in laws and regulatory requirements;changes in applicable

accounting policies;costs,outcomes and effects of litigation and regulatory

investigations;changes in the credit quality of the FirmÕs customers;and 

adequacy of the FirmÕs risk management framework.
Additional factors that may cause future results to differ materially from forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I,Item 1A:Risk Factors 

in the FirmÕs Annual Report on Form 10ÐK for the year ended December 31,

2005,to which reference is hereby made.There is no assurance that any list

of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm speak only
as of the date they are made and JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to

update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or

events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made.The

reader should,however,consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking

nature the Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10ÐK,

its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and its Current Reports on Form 8-K.
‡Community Advisory Board
*136JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
Sharon Alexander-Holt
CEOThe Urban League of Metropolitan
Denver,Inc.Denver, CO
Lauren Anderson
Executive Director
Neighborhood Housing Services of
New Orleans
New Orleans, LAPolly BacaCEO/Executive DirectorLatin American Research and

Service Agency LARASA
Denver,CODionne BagsbyRetired Commissioner
Tarrant CountyFortWorth, TX
Salvador BalcortaExecutive Director
Centro de Salud Familiar La Fe, Inc.

El Paso, TXFrank BallesterosChief Administrative OfficerPPEP Microbusiness & Housing

Development. Corp.Tucson, AZ
Eli BarbosaDirector of Neighborhood
Reinvestment
Latin United Community Housing
Association
Chicago, ILHenryBarlowReverend 
Christ Tabernacle Baptist Church

Chicago, ILJanie Barrera
President/CEO
ACCION TexasSan Antonio, TXShaun BellePresident/CEO
The Mt. Hope Housing Company
Bronx, NY
PascualBlancoExecutive DirectorLa Fuerza Unida Inc.
Glen Cove, NYSylvia Brooks
President/CEO
Houston Area Urban League

Houston, TXDonnie BrownExecutive Director
Genesis Housing Development
Corp.
Chicago, ILJames BuckleyExecutive DirectorUniversity Neighborhood HousingProgram
Bronx, NYJoseph CarbonePresident/CEO
The WorkPlace, Inc.

Bridgeport, CTDavid ChenExecutive DirectorChinese American Planning CouncilNew York, NY
William ClarkPresident/CEOUrban League of Rochester
Rochester,NYRicardo Diaz
Executive Director
United Community Center
Milwaukee, WIPeter ElkowitzPresident
Long Island Housing Partnership
Hauppauge, NYIgnacio EstebanExecutive Director
Florida Community Loan Fund
Orlando, FLRon FafogliaExecutive Director
TSP Hope, Inc.
Springfield, ILMelissa FlournoyPresident/CEOThe Louisiana Assoc. of Nonprofit
Organizations (LANO)Baton Rouge, LA*Board membership as of January 2006
JPMorgan Chase International Council
Hon. George P. Shultz
Chairman of the CouncilDistinguished FellowHoover Institution Stanford University
Stanford, California
Riley P. Bechtel
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Bechtel Group, Inc.

San Francisco, California
Jean-Louis Beffa
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Compagnie de Saint-GobainParis-La D”fense, FranceHon. Bill BradleyFormer U.S. SenatorAllen & Company New York, New York
Michael A. ChaneyChairmanNational Australia Bank LimitedPerth, AustraliaAndr” DesmaraisPresident and 
Co-Chief Executive OfficerPower Corporation of CanadaMontreal, CanadaMartin FeldsteinPresident and Chief Executive Officer
National Bureau of 

Economic Research, Inc.
Cambridge, MassachusettsArminio Fraga NetoFounding PartnerGavea Investimentos, Ltd.
Rio de Janeiro, BrazilXiqing GaoVice ChairmanNational Council for SocialSecurity FundBeijing, The PeopleÕs Republic 
ofChinaFranz B. HumerChairman and Chief Executive Officer
Roche Holding Ltd.Basel, SwitzerlandAbdallah S. JumÕahPresident and Chief Executive Officer
Saudi Arabian Oil CompanyDhahran, Saudi ArabiaHon. Henry A. KissingerChairmanKissinger Associates, Inc.New York, New York
Mustafa V. Ko“
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Ko“ Holding A.S.
Istanbul, Turkey
Hon. Lee Kuan YewMinister MentorRepublic of Singapore
SingaporeMinoruMakiharaSenior Corporate Advisor and Former ChairmanMitsubishi Corporation
Tokyo, Japan
The Rt. Hon. Brian Mulroney
Senior PartnerOgilvy RenaultMontreal, CanadaDavid J. OÕReillyChairman and Chief Executive Officer
Chevron Corporation

San Ramon, CaliforniaKai-Uwe RickeChairman of the Board of
Management Deutsche Telekom AG
Bonn, GermanySir John RoseChief ExecutiveRolls-Royce plcLondon, United KingdomTokyo Sexwale
Executive ChairmanMvelaphanda Holdings LtdJohannesburg, South AfricaWalter V. Shipley
Former Chairman of the Board
The Chase Manhattan CorporationNew York, New York
Jess S¿derbergPartner and Chief Executive Officer
A.P. M¿ller-Maersk Group
Copenhagen, DenmarkWilliam S. Stavropoulos
Chairman of the Board
The Dow Chemical CompanyMidland, Michigan Ratan Naval Tata
ChairmanTata Sons LimitedMumbai, IndiaMarco Tronchetti Provera
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Pirelli & C. SpA

Milan, ItalyCees J.A. van LedeFormer Chairman, Boardof ManagementAkzo Nobel
Arnhem, The Netherlands
Douglas A. Warner III
Former Chairman of the Board
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York 
Ernesto Zedillo
Director
Yale Center for the Study of GlobalizationNew Haven, ConnecticutJaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala
President
Ayala CorporationMakati City, Philippines
Ex-Officio Members
William B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman of the Board
JPMorgan Chase & Co.New York, New York
James Dimon Chief Executive Officer
JPMorgan Chase & Co.New York, New York
Andrew Crockett 
President 
JPMorgan Chase InternationalNew York, New YorkWilliam M. DaleyChairman of the Midwest RegionJPMorgan Chase & Co.Chicago, IllinoisWalter A. Gubert
Vice Chairman 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.Chairman JPMorgan Chase EMEALondon, United KingdomJPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
137William Frey
Vice President, Director
Enterprise Foundation NYC Office
NewYork, NY
Reuben GantExecutive Director
Greenwood Community
Development Corp.Tulsa, OKReginald GatesPresident/CEO
Dallas Black Chamber of Commerce
Dallas, TXSarah Gerecke
CEONeighborhood Housing Services ofNYCNew York, NY
Christie GillespieExecutive Director
Indiana Assoc. for CommunityEconomic DevelopmentIndianapolis, INErnest Gonzalez
Corporate Committee ChairLong Island Hispanic Chamber ofCommerce

West Islip, NYDina GonzalezPresident
West Michigan Hispanic ChamberofCommerceGrand Rapids, MIBruce GottschallExecutive DirectorNeighborhood Housing Services 
of Chicago
Chicago, ILColvin GrannumPresident/CEOBedfordStuyvesant RestorationCorp.
Brooklyn, NYMeg HallerCEOGaryCitywide (CDC)Gary, IN
Don HartmanDeputy Director
NHS of PhoenixPhoenix, AZRoy HastickPresident/CEO
Caribbean American Chamber of
Commerce & IndustryBrooklyn, NY
Norman HenryPresident
Builders of Hope Community
Development Corp.
Dallas, TXRalph HollmonPresident/CEO
Milwaukee Urban League, Inc.
Milwaukee, WIKevin JacksonExecutive Director
Chicago Rehab Network
Chicago, ILKim JacobsExecutive Director
Westchester Housing Fund

Hawthorne, NY
Manson JohnsonReverend
Holman Street Baptist Church
Houston, TXErma Johnson-HadleyVice Chancellor for Administration Tarrant County College Dist.
Fort Worth, TX
Amy KlabenPresident/CEO
Columbus Housing Partnership, Inc.Columbus, OHJames KleinExecutive Director 
Ohio Community DevelopmentFinance FundColumbus, OHChristopher KuiExecutive Director
Asian Americans for EqualityNew York, NY
Rhonda Lewis President/CEO
Bridge Street Development Corp.
Brooklyn, NY
William LinderFounderNew Community CorporationNewark, NJ Fred Lucas
President/CEOFaith Center for CommunityDevelopmentNew York, NYNormLyonsCommunity Development Corp.ChairOne Hundred Black Men of GreaterDallasDallas, TXRichard Manson
Vice President
LISCNew York, NYMaria MatosExecutive DirectorLatin American Community CenterWilmington, DEChristie McCravyDirector of Homeownership
ProgramsThe Housing Partnership, Inc.Louisville, KYLuis MirandaChairmanAudubon Partnership for EconomicDevelopment
New York, NY
Marlon MitchellExecutive Director
City of Houston Small Business
Development Corp.
Houston, TXAndrew J. Mooney
Senior Program Director
Local Initiative SupportCorporationChicago, ILRandy Moore
Executive Director
Community Works in West

Virginia, Inc.

Charleston, WVGilbert Moreno
President
Association for the AdvancementofMexican AmericansHouston, TXVincent Murray
Executive Director
Bagley Housing Association, Inc.Detroit, MI
Joe MyerExecutive Director
NCALL Research
Dover, DE
Jeremy Nowak
President/CEO
The Reinvestment FundPhiladelphia, PA
Claudia O'GradyExecutive Director
Multi-Ethnic Development Corp.Salt Lake City, UT
David PaganExecutive Director
Southside United HousingDevelopment Fund Corp.Brooklyn, NY
James PaleyExecutive DirectorNeighborhood Housing Services ofNew HavenNew Haven, CTJohn ParvenskyPresident
Colorado Coalition for the
Homeless
Denver, CO
John PritscherPresidentCommunity Investment Corp.Chicago, ILKerry QuagliaExecutive Director
Home Headquarters, Inc.Syracuse, NYEdwin ReedCFOGreater Allen Cathedral of NY 

Jamaica, NYKathy RicciExecutive Director
Utah Micro-Enterprise Loan FundSalt Lake City,UTGwen RobinsonPresident/CEO
Hamilton County CommunityAction AgencyCincinnati, OHMarcos Ronquillo
LawyerGodwin Gruber, LLP

Dallas, TXClifford Rosenthal
Executive DirectorNational Federation of CommunityDevelopment Credit Unions

New York, NYWinston RossExecutive Director
Westchester Community

Opportunity Program

Elmsford, NY
David ScheckExecutive Director
NJCommunity Capital Corp. Trenton, NJ
Doris SchniderPresident
Delaware Community Investment
Corp.Wilmington, DEShirley StancatoPresident/CEO
New Detroit, Inc.
Detroit, MI
Thomas StoneExecutive Director
Mt. Pleasant Development NowCleveland, OHBenjamin Thomas Sr. 
Pastor Tanner AME
Phoenix, AZValerie Thompson
President/CEO
Urban League of Greater Oklahoma
CityOklahoma City, OK
Carlisle Towery
PresidentGreater Jamaica Development
Corp.Jamaica, NYMargaret TrahanPresident/CEO
United Way of AcadianaLafayette, LATerry Troia
Executive DirectorProject HospitalityStaten Island, NYReginald Tuggle 
PastorMemorial Presbyterian Church

Roosevelt, NYMark Van Brunt
Executive Director
Raza Development FundPhoenix, AZDonna WertenbachPresident/CEO
Community Economic DevelopmentFundWest Hartford, CT
Lloyd WilliamsPresident/CEO
Greater Harlem Chamber of
Commerce
New York, NY
Melinda R. Wright
DirectorMomentive Consumer Credit

Counseling Service
Indianapolis, INRavi YalamanchiCEOMetro Housing Partnership

Flint, MIDiana Yazzie-Devine
President
Native American Connections
Phoenix, AZCommunity Advisory Board
*(continued)*Board membership as of January 2006
138JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
National Advisory Board
Richard I. Beattie
ChairmanSimpson Thacher & Bartlett LLPLeon D. BlackFounding PartnerApollo Management, L.P.
David BondermanFounding PartnerTexas Pacific Group
David A. BrandonChairman and Chief Executive Officer

Domino's Pizza, Inc.Richard J. Bressler
Managing Director and Head 
ofthe Strategic Resources Group
Thomas H. Lee Partners, LPEdgar Bronfman, Jr. 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Warner Music Group
Frank A. DÕAmelio Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer 
Lucent Technologies
Nancy J. De LisiSenior Vice President of 
Mergers & Acquisitions Altria Group, Inc.David F. DeVoe
Chief Financial Officer
News CorporationWilliam T. Dillard II
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Dillard's, Inc.
Paul J. FribourgChairman and Chief Executive Officer
ContiGroup Companies, Inc.
Charles E. GoldenExecutive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer
Eli Lilly and CompanyJohn B. HessChairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer 
Amerada Hess CorporationGlenn H. HutchinsFounding PartnerSilver Lake Partners Thomas H. LeeChairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Thomas H. Lee Capital LLCDavid C. McCourtChairman and Chief Executive Officer
Granahan McCourt CapitalDarla D. Moore
Executive Vice President
Rainwater, Inc.
Patrick J. Moore
Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer
Smurfit-Stone ContainerCorporationMichael G. MorrisChairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer
American Electric PowerLewis RanieriChairman and Chief Executive Officer
Ranieri & CompanyJoseph L. Rice IIIChairman Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc.David M. RubensteinManaging Director 
The Carlyle GroupStephen A. Schwarzman Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
and Co-Founder The Blackstone Group
David L. ShedlarzExecutive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer
Pfizer Inc.Henry R. SilvermanChairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Cendant CorporationBarry S. Sternlicht 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Starwood Capital Group
Doreen A. Toben  
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer 
Verizon CommunicationsSamuel ZellChairman of the Board 
Equity Group Investments, L.L.C.
Mortimer B. ZuckermanChairman Boston Properties, Inc.
James B. Lee, Jr. 
Chairman National Advisory Board 
Philip C. AckermanChairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer
National Fuel Gas CompanyRichard A. Bernstein
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
R.A.B. Holdings, Inc.Robert B. CatellChairman and Chief Executive Officer
KeySpan Energy CorporationChristopher B. CombeChairman and President
Combe IncorporatedEugene R. CorasantiChairman and Chief Executive Officer
CONMED CorporationEmil DudaSenior Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
Lifetime HealthcareCompany/Excellus Health Plan Inc.James N. FernandezExecutive Vice President andChief Financial Officer
Tiffany & CompanyCharles F.FortgangChairmanM. Fabrikant & Sons, Inc.Gladys GeorgePresident and 
Chief Executive Officer
Lenox Hill HospitalLewis GolubChairman of the Board
The Golub CorporationWallace A. Graham
Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer

Schenectady International, Inc.
Peter J. KalletChairman, President and 
Chief Executive Officer
Oneida Ltd.Charles A. KrasnePresident and 
Chief Executive OfficerKrasdale Foods, Inc.RichardW. Kunes
Executive Vice Presidentand Chief Financial Officer
Estee Lauder Companies, Inc.RichardS. LeFrakPresident
LeFrak Organization, Inc.Leo LiebowitzChief Executive Officer
Getty Realty Corp.William L. MackCo-Founder and Managing PartnerApollo Real Estate Advisors L.P.
Peter MarksonChairmanParis Accessories, Inc.Herman I. Merinoff
Chairman of the Board
The Charmer Sunbelt Group
John MorphyChief Financial Officer,
Secretary and Treasurer

Paychex, Inc.Michael C. NahlSenior Vice President and 
Chief Financial OfficerAlbany International Corp.James L. NederlanderPresident Nederlander Producing Company of America, Inc.Samuel I. Newhouse IIIGeneral ManagerAdvance Publications Inc.William C. RudinPresident
Rudin Management Company, Inc.
Joel SeligmanPresident
University of RochesterJohn ShalamChairman and Chief Executive Officer
Audiovox CorporationArthur T. Shorin
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
The Topps Company, Inc.
Marie Toulantis
Chief Executive Officer
Barnes & Noble, Inc.
Kenneth L. Wallach
Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive OfficerCentral National-Gottesman Inc.Fred Wilpon
ChairmanSterling Equities, Inc.Regional AdvisoryBoard**Board membership as of January 2006
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2005 Annual Report
139Corporate Governance
Governance is a continuing focus at JPMorgan Chase,starting with the board
of directors and continuing throughout the Firm.There are three pillars of

good governance:
¥An independent board,accountable to shareholders

¥Strong internal governance

¥Alignment with shareholders
Board governance
JPMorgan ChaseÕs board is experienced,independent and accountable to
shareholders.The boardÕs structure and practices include 
the following, andmore information on board governance can be found on the FirmÕs website(www.jpmorganchase.com):¥effective size:The boardÕs preference is to maintain a smaller size for effi-
ciency and to encourage active dialogue.As retirements occur,the board

will actively seek to increase diversity among its membership.
¥asuper-majority of non-management directors:There are only two full-
time management members on the board,Bill Harrison and Jamie Dimon.

During 2005,Bob Lipp became a part-time member of management to

share his special skills in developing talent within the firm.All other mem-

bers of the board are non-management directors that the board has
determined to be independent.¥director independence:independent directors Ð Each of the non-management directors ofJPMorgan Chase was determined by the board to be independent in
accordance with board standards that consider past and current employ-ment relationships;any business relationships with or charitable contribu-tions to entities at which a director serves as an officer;and personal
banking and other financial relationships,which must be on an armÕs-

length basis.executive sessions of directors Ð In 2005,the board adopted the practice
ofmeeting without management at each regularly scheduled board meeting.
access to outside resources Ð Although the main responsibility for provid-ing assistance to the board rests with management,the board and board
committees can engage outside expert advice from sources independent
of management at the expense of the Firm.¥director accountability:majority voting for directors Ð In 2005 the board adopted a policy provid-ing that in uncontested elections,any director nominee who receives more
withheld than for votes will tender his or her resignation.Absent a com-
pelling reason,the board will accept the resignation.
¥director compensation:The board believes it is desirable that a significant
portion of overall director compensation be linked to JPMorgan Chase

stock,and the boardÕstotal compensation includes approximately one-third cash and two-thirds stock-based compensation in the form of shareequivalents that must be held until a directorÕs termination of service.
Internal governanceWhile governance begins with the board of directors,managing the enter-
prise requires effective governance structures and practices throughout theorganization.The firm as a whole manages by line of business,supported by
global policies and standards that typically apply to all relevant units regard-

less of geography or legal structure.The strength of these global controlprocesses is the foundation of regional and individual subsidiary governance.
Three examples of the FirmÕs global processes and standards are its risk man-

agement structure,policy review process and codes of conduct.
Defined risk governance is a principle of risk management at JPMorganChase.The board of directors exercises oversight of risk management through

the board as a whole and through the boardÕs Audit and Risk Policy commit-

tees.The charters of these and other board committees are available at the

FirmÕs website.The board delegates the formulation of policy and day-to-day

risk oversight to management.The FirmÕs risk governance structure is built

upon the premise that each line of business is responsible for managing the
risks inherent in its business activity,including liquidity risk,credit risk,market

risk,interest rate risk,operational risk,legal and reputation risk,fiduciary risk

and private equity risk.Each line of business has a risk committee responsible

for decisions relating to risk strategy,policies and control.Where appropriate,

risk committees escalate risk issues to the FirmÕs Operating Committee,com-

prised of senior officers of the Firm,or to the Risk Working Group,a sub-

group of the Operating Committee.Overlaying risk management within the

lines of business are three corporate functions:Treasury,Risk Management

and Office of the General Counsel.Treasury is responsible for managing the

interest rate and liquidity profile of the Firm.Risk Management provides an

independent firmwide function of control and management of risk.The Office

of the General Counsel has oversight of legal,reputation and fiduciary risk.A

discussion of risk management begins at page 60 of this Annual Report.The policy review process is based on the recognition that a firmÕs success
requires maintenance of a reputation for business practices of the highestquality.The Firm has a specific structure to address transactions with clients
that have the potential to adversely affect the FirmÕsreputation.Primaryresponsibility for adherence to the policies and procedures designed toaddress reputation risk lies with business units,which are also required to

submit to regional Reputation Risk Committees proposed transactions that

may heighten reputation risk.The committees may approve,reject or requirefurther clarification on or changes to the transaction,or they may escalate the
review to the most senior level of review,the Policy Review Office.The objec-

tive of the policy review process is to reinforce a culture that ensures that all
employees understand the basic principles of reputation risk control and can
recognize and address issues as they arise.For a further description of the
policy review process,see the discussion of reputation and fiduciary risk start-

ing at page 80 of this Annual Report.
The Firm has two codes of conduct,one applying to all employees and a sup-
plementary code that applies to senior executive and senior financial officers.

The Code of Conduct is applicable to all employees and the Firm requires each

employee to certify annually his or her compliance with the Code.The Firmalso has a Code of Ethics for Finance Professionals to underscore the impor-tance of ethical conduct and compliance with law,particularly as it relates tothe maintenance of the Firm's financial books and records and the preparation
of its financial statements.Both codes are available at the FirmÕs website.
Alignment with shareholders 
Good corporate governance requires that compensation policies align with
shareholder interests.JPMorgan ChaseÕs compensation policy for executive

officers emphasizes performance-based,variable compensation over fixedsalary and uses equity-based awards to align the interests of executive offi-
cers with shareholders.Members of the FirmÕs Operating Committee are
required to retain 75% of the net shares received from equity-based awards,
after deduction for taxes and exercise costs.
140 JPMorgan Chase & Co. / 2005 Annual ReportBoard of DirectorsHans W. Becherer 1,4Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Deere & Company
(Equipment manufacturer)John H. Biggs 1,3Former Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer
Teachers Insurance 
and Annuity Association-College Retirement
Equities Fund (TIAA-CREF) 
(Pension fund)Lawrence A. Bossidy 4,5Retired Chairman 
Honeywell International Inc. 
(Technology and manufacturing)Stephen B. Burke 2,3President
Comcast Cable
Communications, Inc.
(Cable television)James S. Crown 4,5President
Henry Crown and Company 
(Diversified investments)James Dimon Chief Executive Officer
JPMorgan Chase & Co.Ellen V. Futter 4,5President and Trustee
American Museum of 
Natural History 
(Museum)William H. Gra
y, III 2,4Senior Advisor, Public Policy
& Business DiversityBuchanan Ingersoll PC
(Law firm)William B. Harrison, J
r.Chairman of the Board
JPMorgan Chase & Co.Laban P. Jackson, Jr. 1,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer
Clear Creek Properties, Inc.
(Real estate development)John W. Kessler 2,4Owner
John W. Kessler Company 
and Chairman
The New Albany Company(Real estate development)Robert I. Lipp 4,5Senior Advisor
JPMorgan Chase & Co.Richard A. Manoogian 1,4Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer
Masco Corporation
(Diversified manufacturer)David C. Novak 2,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer
Yum! Brands, Inc.
(Franchised restaurants)Lee R. Raymond 2,3Retired Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer
Exxon Mobil Corporation 
(Oil and gas)William C. 
Weldon 2,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer 
Johnson & Johnson(Health care products)Anthony J. HoranSecretaryMark I. KleinmanTreasuryJoseph L. SclafaniController  James Dimon*Chief Executive OfficerAustin A. Adams*Technology & OperationsPaul BatemanAsset ManagementFrank J. Bisignano*Chief Administrative OfficerSteven D. Black*Investment Bank Philip F. BleserCommercial BankingJohn F. Bradley*Human ResourcesDouglas L. Braunstein Investment BankRichard M. Cashin One Equity PartnersMichael J. Cavanagh*Finance Michael K. ClarkInstitutional Trust & Investor ServicesAndrew CrockettJPMorgan Chase InternationalWilliam M. DaleyMidwest RegionKlaus DiederichsInvestment BankIna R. Drew*Chief Investment Officer Patrik L. EdsparrInvestment BankMary E. ErdoesPrivate Bank Martha J. GalloAuditWalter A. GubertEurope, Middle East and AfricaJoan Guggenheimer*Legal & ComplianceCarlos M. HernandezInvestment BankLorraine E. HricikTreasury ServicesRick LazioGovernment Affairs & Public PolicyJames B. Lee, Jr.Investment BankSteve MacLellanPrivate Client ServicesSamuel Todd Maclin*Commercial Banking Jay Mandelbaum*Strategy  Donald H. McCree, IIIInvestment Bank William H. McDavi
d*Legal & Compliance Heidi Miller*Treasury & Securities Services  R. Ralph ParksAsia PacificScott PowellHome FinanceDavid W. PuthInvestment BankCharles W. Scharf*Retail Financial Services  Richard J. Srednicki*Card ServicesJames E. Staley*Asset & Wealth Management  Don M. Wilson III*Risk ManagementThomas L. WindHome FinanceWilliam T. Winters*Investment BankExecutive CommitteeOther corporate officers(*denotes member of Operating Committee)Member of:1.Audit Committee2.Compensation & Management Development Committee3.Corporate Governance & 

Nominating Committee4.Public Responsibility Committee5.Risk Policy CommitteeJPMorgan Chase & Co.(NYSE:JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $1.2 trillion
and operations in more than 50 countries.The firm is a leader in investment banking,financial services 
for consumers,small business and commercial banking,financial transaction processing,asset and wealth
management,and private equity.A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average,JPMorgan Chase
serves millions of consumers in the United States and many of the worldÕs most prominent corporate,

institutional and government clients under its JPMorgan and Chase brands.
JPMorgan has one of the largest client franchises in the world.Our clients include corporations,
institutional investors,hedge funds,governments and affluent individuals in more than 100 countries.
The following businesses use the JPMorgan brand:
Investment BankAsset Management  

Treasury ServicesPrivate Bank

Worldwide Securities ServicesPrivate Client Services 
Information about JPMorgan capabilities can be found on jpmorgan.com.Chase is a leading U.S.financial services brand serving consumers,small businesses,corporations and 
governments with a full range of banking and asset management products in local markets and throughnational distribution.The consumer businesses include:
Consumer BankingHome Finance

Credit CardAuto FinanceSmall BusinessEducation Finance
The commercial banking businesses include:
Middle MarketBusiness CreditMid-CorporateEquipment Leasing
Real EstateInformation about Chase capabilities can be found on chase.com.
JPMorgan Chase is the brand used to express JPMorgan Chase & Co.,the holding company,and is 
also used by our Treasury Services business and our Community Development Group.
Information about the firm is available at www.jpmorganchase.com.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Corporate headquarters
270 Park Avenue
New York,New York 10017-2070
Telephone:212-270-6000
http://www.jpmorganchase.com
Principal subsidiariesJPMorgan Chase Bank,National AssociationChase Bank USA,National AssociationJ.P.Morgan Securities Inc.
Annual report on Form 10-K
The Annual Report on Form 10-K of 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.as filed with the

Securities and Exchange Commission 
will be made available upon request to:Office of the SecretaryJPMorgan Chase & Co.

270 Park AvenueNew York,New York 10017-2070
Stock listingNew York Stock Exchange,Inc.
London Stock Exchange Limited
Tokyo Stock ExchangeThe New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
ticker symbols for stock of JPMorgan Chase 

&Co.are as follows:
JPM (Common Stock)JPMPRH (Depositary Shares EachRepresenting a One-Tenth Interest in 

65/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock)Certifications by the Chairman,ChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial Officerof JPMorgan Chase & Co.pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,have

been filed as exhibits to the Firm's 2005Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The NYSE requires that the Chief ExecutiveOfficer of a listed company certify annuallythat he or she was not aware of any violation

by the company of the NYSE's CorporateGovernance listing standards.Such certification
was made on June 14,2005.Financial information about JPMorgan Chase&Co.can be accessed by visiting the Investor
Relations site of www.jpmorganchase.com.Additional questions should be addressed to:Investor RelationsJPMorgan Chase & Co.270 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10017-2070
Telephone:212-270-6000
Direct deposit of dividends
For information about direct deposit of dividends,please contact Mellon Investor
Services LLC.Stockholder inquiriesContact Mellon Investor Services LLC:By telephone:  Within the United States,Canada and 
Puerto Rico:1-800-758-4651 
(toll free)From all other locations:
1-201-680-6578 (collect) TDD service for the hearing impaired within the United States,Canada and 
Puerto Rico:1-800-231-5469 (toll free) 
All other locations:1-201-680-6578 (collect)By mail:Mellon Investor Services LLC480 Washington Blvd.Jersey City,New Jersey 07310-1900
Duplicate mailingsIf you receive duplicate mailings because you have more than one account listing and you wish to 
consolidate your accounts,please write to Mellon Investor Services LLC at the address above.
Independent registered public
accounting firmPricewaterhouseCoopers LLP300 Madison Avenue
New York,New York 10017
Directors
To contact any of the Board members please
mail correspondence to:JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Attention (Board member)Office of the Secretary270 Park Avenue
New York,New York 10017-2070
The corporate governance principles of 
the board,the charters of the principal 
board committees and other governance
information can be accessed by visitingwww.jpmorganchase.com and clicking on

ÒGovernance.ÓStockholders may request 
acopy of such materials by writing to theOffice of the Secretary at the above address.
Transfer agent and registrar
Mellon Investor Services LLC480 Washington Blvd.

Jersey City,New Jersey 07310-1900
Telephone:1-800-758-4651https://vault.melloninvestor.com/isd
Investor Services Program 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.Õs Investor Services
Program offers a variety of convenient,low-
cost services to make it easier to reinvest 
dividends and buy and sell shares of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.common stock.Abrochure and enrollment materialsmay be
obtained by contacting the Program
Administrator,Mellon Investor Services LLC,

by calling 1-800-758-4651,by writing them

at the address indicated above or by visiting
their Web site at www.melloninvestor.com.
This annual report is printed on paper made from 
well-managed forests and other controlled sources withthe financial section printed on paper containing 20%post-consumer waste (PCW) recycled fibers.The paper 

is independently certified by SmartWood,a program of 

the Rainforest Alliance,to the Forest Stewardship Council

(FSC) standards.
FSC is an independent nonprofit organization devoted toencouraging the responsible management of the worldÕs
forests.FSC sets high standards to ensure forestry is 
practiced in an environmentally responsible,socially 
beneficial and economically viable way.
©2006 JPMorgan Chase & Co.All rights reserved.Printed in the U.S.A.JPMORGANCHASE&CO.
Annual Report 2005JPMorgan Chase & Co.www.jpmorganchase.com
JPMorganChase&Co.2005AnnualReport