Building a Strong Foundation
2007Annual Report 
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(NYSE:JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with
assets of $1.6 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries.The firm is a leader in

investment banking,financial services for consumers,small business and commercial

banking,financial transaction processing,asset management and private equity.

A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average,JPMorgan Chase serves millions 

of consumers in the United States and many of the world™s most prominent corporate,

institutional and government clients under its JPMorgan and Chase brands.
Information about JPMorgan capabilities can be found at www.jpmorgan.com and
about Chase capabilities at www.chase.com.Information about the firm is available 

at www.jpmorganchase.com.
As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share,ratio and headcount data)
20072006Reported basis(a)Total net revenue 
$71,372
$61,999Provision for credit losses 6,864 3,270Total noninterest expense 
41,70338,843Income from continuing operations15,36513,649Net income$15,365
$14,444Per common share:Basic earnings per shareIncome from continuing operations$4.51
$3.93Net income4.514.16Diluted earnings per shareIncome from continuing operations$4.38
$3.82Net income4.384.04Cash dividends declared per share1.481.36Book value per share
36.5933.45Return on common equityIncome from continuing operations13%12%Net income1313Return on common equity (net of goodwill)Income from continuing operations21%20%Net income2122Tier 1 capital ratio 
8.48.7Total capital ratio 
12.612.3Total assets 
$1,562,147
$1,351,520Loans 519,374483,127Deposits 740,728638,788Total stockholders™ equity 
123,221115,790Headcount180,667174,360(a) Results are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Financial Highlights
Global Reports LLC
1Net Revenue (in billions)Income from continuing operations (in billions)
Return on Equity (net of goodwill)from continuing operations Earnings per Sharefrom continuing operations (fully diluted)
Financial Trends 
(a)Presented on an unaudited pro forma combined
basis that represents how the Þnancial information
of JPMorgan Chase & Co.and Bank One
Corporation may have appeared on a combined
basis had the two companies been merged for thefull yearAll information shown on a reported basis on continuing operationsGrowth rates shown as compound annual growthrates (CAGRs)Income by Line 
of Business(in millions)Commercial Banking$1,134Investment Bank$3,139Retail Financial
Services$3,035Corporate$1,775AssetManagement$1,966Card Services$2,919Treasury & 
Securities Services$1,397Global Reports LLC
2As I write this letter, the turbulence that began in the second half of 
2007 continues to wreak havoc on the financial markets today. Given 

the magnitude and unprecedented nature of events as they continue to

unfold, it is a year that will be written about for a long time. We do not
know when this cycle will end or the extent of the damage it will cause.
But we do know that no financial company operating under these

conditions will emerge from them unchanged. And, while we are long-

term optimists about the future of the U.S. economy and our company,

we remain focused on the current crisis. In this context, I will review 
how we performed in 2007 and how we are preparing to weather the

ongoing storm.   
Iwould like to start by saying how gratifying it is that JPMorgan Chase was
able to report record revenue and earnings for 2007 despite the intense
credit and capital markets issues we faced during the second half of the
year. These issues continue to confront us today, particularly in both our
Investment Bank and home lending businesses. That said, we must be 

prepared for a severeeconomic downturn that could affect all of our 
businesses.Weintend tonavigatethrough the turbulence, protect our
company and capitalize on any opportunities that present themselves. 
It is during these tough times that we can distinguish ourselves with our

clients. As a firm, we have a history of showing leadership during times 
of financial crisis, and we will continue to build on that legacy.
As you read this letter, I hope you will agree that our expectations are
rational, our approach is consistent and measured, and our operating 
philosophy is sound. I also hope you will feel as I do Ð that while our 

company still faces many risks in these challenging times, we will 
continue togrow our franchise, outperform many of our competitors 
and win whereitmatters most: with customers in the marketplace.
Dear Fellow Shareholders,
Global Reports LLC
3I. REVIEWOF2007
Over the past few years, we have not only worked hard 
to instill management discipline, but we have also spent

considerable time and resources developing a strong 
foundation for long-term growth. So when we measure
our performance, we not only review Þnancial results Ð 

byline of business and for the company overall Ð but 
we also look at multiple indicators of health. These meas-

ures help us gauge the progress we have made by expand-

ing and extending our capabilities, geographic reach, 

client coverage, product offerings and technology and 
by attracting, training and retaining talented people.
Meaningful progress in any of the areas mentioned above
takes a considerable investment of time and money. 
Wegenerate both byoperating efÞciently and maintainingafortress balance sheet. So, there are three intrinsically
linked imperatives that are fundamental to our success:
strong Þnancial results,quality growthand capitalstrength
.Iwill focus on each in the following review 
of our 2007 results.
A.Financial Results by Line of Business
We delivered record 2007 full-year earnings of $15.4 
billion on recordrevenue of $71.4 billion. This repre-
sented total revenue growth of 15%, most of which wasorganic. Earnings per share Ð also a record at $4.38 Ð were
up 15% from 2006. Our return on tangible common

equity was 23%. Recordor near-record earnings in many
of our businesses and the diversiÞed natureof our compa-ny helped offset areas of cyclical weakness. Our results Ð
byline of business Ð arereviewed below. 
The Investment Bank reported net income of$3.1 billion
with an ROE of 15%
The Investment Bank delivered a record Þrst half of the
year, with a return on equity (ROE) averaging about 26%.
DifÞcult market conditions reduced our ROE to about4% for the second half of 2007. Given the natural volatili-
ty of this business, these results are not surprising. That

said, our goal remains to earn 20% ROE through a busi-

ness cycle. Ideally, this means weÕll produce ROE of 30%

or higher in good years, 10% in tougher years and no
worse than 0% in a particularly bad quarter. Our subjec-
tiveassessment of how we performed in 2007 is that the
26% ROE in the beginning of the year was a solid result.
However, our 4% ROE in the second half of the year
could have been better, e.g., perhaps a 7%-10% ROE.  
Jamie DimonChairman and Chief Executive Officer
Global Reports LLC
44Even though we had hoped to do better, relative to the
performance of most of our competitors, many of whom

sustained large losses, our Investment BankÕs results were

rather good. Most of the adverse results in the second 

half were conÞned to the sales and trading areas of the

Investment Bank. Within sales and trading, the majority of

the issues were in mortgage-related trading and leveraged

Þnance (which we will cover in a later section). Equities,

rates and currencies had excellent full-year results.  
We are particularly pleased to have ended the year ranked
No. 1 in investment banking fees and with an increased 

market share in global equities and global debt. This perfor-

mance is a testament to our capital raising capabilities and
the quality of the coverage, support and advice we provide to 

corporations, institutions and investors around the world.

JPMorgan is now a top-ranked player in virtually every major

investment banking product. We are proud of this progress
and are pleased to see it noted in several independent client
surveys and reports (e.g., 
Institutional Investor,
which ratedJPMorgan the No. 1 Investment Bank, Greenwich Research
and Risk magazine). Webelieve by working hard to earn our
clientsÕtrust, wewill sustain our leadership position and buildthe best investment bank in the world. Retail Financial Services (RFS) reported net income of 
$3 billion with an ROE of 19%RFS, our retail bank, offers consumers and small businesses
checking and savings accounts, credit cards, mortgages,home equity and business loans, and investments across
our 17-state footprint from New York to Arizona. We also
provide home lending products nationally through our5,200 loan ofÞcers and our network of brokers and corre-
spondents. Additionally, we work with more than 14,500
car dealerships to provide their customers with auto loans

and with more than 5,200 colleges and universities to loan

students the funds they need to complete their education.
RFS had a good year and showed strong organic growth.
For example, in 2007: ¥Total checking accounts grew8% to almost 11 millionaccounts.¥Business banking loans grew 9% to more than $15 billion.

¥Credit card and investment sales in the branches both
increased 23%, while mortgage loans in the branchesincreased by 31%.
¥Mortgage loan originations grew 34% overall (even
with much tighter underwriting standards). 
¥Use of electronic payments rose, with more than a 20%
increase in our online customer base. Nearly 6 million

customers nowuse our electronic services to bank with
usÐanytime, anywhere. Despite this progress, however, overall RFS earnings were
down 6% year-over-year. This was largely a function of

increased credit costs in our home equity business and in

subprime home loans (which we will describe in detail

later). However, unlike other lenders that are pulling back

or closing down, we have not abandoned this business. 

To the contrary, while we have materially tightened our

underwriting standards, we have also nearly doubled our

home lending market share to 11% in the fourth quarter

(up from 6% a year ago). We have done this because we

believe it is a strong, sustainable business that continues 

to meet an important Þnancial priority for many people

throughout this country. 
Card Services reported net income of $2.9 billion with an
ROE of 21%
We are the second-largest credit card issuer in the United
States, with approximately 155 million credit cards in cir-
culation. In 2007, while growth in outstanding balances

was relatively lowat 4%, merchandise spending on ourcards increased nicely, by 9%, particularly in our co-brand-
ed partner and small business card portfolios. We added
morethan 16 million newaccounts and raised the level ofcharge volume by $15 billion. In addition, to drive growth
and better serve cardmembers, the new CEO of Card

Services reorganized the business into Þve units: the mass

afßuent segment, individuals of high net worth, small 

businesses, and co-brand and retail/private label partners.This customer-focused approach will enable us to speciÞ-cally tailor products and services to meet the Þnancial
needs of these important customer groups.  
While weÕre pleased with our 2007 performance in Card
Services, we are preparing for the impact of a weakening
economy on loan losses. We expect losses to increase by

about 4.5%-5% of outstanding balances from about

3.7% in 2007. (In a prolonged recession, the losses could

be considerably worse.) Commercial Banking reported net income of $1.1 billion
with an ROE of 17%Commercial Banking serves more than 30,000 customers
across America, including corporations, municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities.
Commercial Banking produced record revenue, up 8%,
and record proÞts, up 12%, from a year ago. Loans grew
14%, liability balances grew 19% and we added more

than 2,200 newbanking relationships.Over the past few years Ð in addition to providing cash
management products to its customers Ð Commercial
Banking has been able to better meet our customersÕ needs
byincreasingly making investment banking products and
Global Reports LLC
5services available to them. This includes M&A advisory
and equity and debt underwriting, which are made 

possible byastrong collaboration between Commercial
Banking and the Investment Bank. This capability is a
competitive advantage for us. In 2005 Ð the year after 

the merger with Bank One Ð we generated about $550

million in Investment Bank-related revenue through this

cross-sell opportunity. By the end of 2007, Commercial

Banking had achieved record Investment Bank-related 

revenue of about $890 million. Wealso launched ChaseCapital to provide equity and mezzanine debt Þnancing to
our customers to eliminate the need for them to seek such
capital elsewhere. Itis important to note that of the total
revenue Commercial Banking generated in 2007, only
35% now relates to the lending product.
While we recognize the value of cross selling, we are also
keenly awareof the risks associated with trying to drivegrowth in certain product areas. As such, we have resisted
growth in areas where we felt inadequately compensated

for that risk. For example, our real estate lending has

actually shrunk over the past few years and currently 

represents only 12% of our total loans. Commercial

Banking also increased loan loss reserves by $225 million,
bringing total reserves to a very strong 2.8% of average
loans at year-end. 
Treasury & Securities Services (TSS) reported net income
of $1.4 billion with an ROE of 47%TSS is a business that holds, values, clears and services 
securities and provides cash management, corporate cardand liquidity products and trade Þnance services to the
worldÕsleading companies and institutional investors. TSSdelivered exceptional Þnancial results, with record revenue,
up 14%, and record proÞts, up 28%. This business has

generated higher volume across all of its products, grownconsistently over time, produced good margins, and 
maintained great global scale and long-standing client 
relationships. It is a business that would be extremely hard
to duplicate. Notably, TSS assets under custody increased

by15% to $15.9 trillion, and average liability balances
were up 21% to about $230 billion. The group grew its
revenue from countries outside the U.S. by more than

26% over the past year. The ability to make signiÞcant

progress on this important priority reßects the strong

foundation we are building abroad. Highlights include

receiving regulatory approval to connect to ChinaÕs 

electronic clearing system, establishing a staff presence in 41 countries and branches in 25 countries worldwide,and extending our international capabilities for clients
around the globe.Asset Management reported net income of $2 billion 
with an ROE of 51%Asset Management provides our institutional, high-net-
worth and individual investor clients with global invest-
ment management in equities, Þxed income, real estate,

hedge funds, private equity and liquidity. The headline

numbers for Asset Management were terriÞc. The business
delivered strong growth in 2007, with proÞts up 40% and
revenue up 27% Ð both recordlevels. Assets under man-agement were up 18% (or $180 billion), driven mainly 
by $115 billion of new ßows, and were further fueled by

market growth during the year. We increased alternative

assets (hedge funds, private equity, etc.) by more than

20%, to end the year with $121 billion in alternative

assets under management. As the worldÕslargest manager of hedge funds, wegrewour total hedge funds by 30% last year, including increas-
ing assets under management in our Highbridge funds by68% in 2007. Since late 2004, when JPMorgan acquired a
majority interest in Highbridge, its assets under manage-

ment havegrown from $7 billion to about $28 billion inearly 2008. In addition, the Private Bank and Private
Client Services set a record by increasing assets under
EEaarrnniinnggss bbyy LLiinnee ooff BBuussiinneessss (in millions)2004200520062007
Investment Bank$  3,654 $  3,673 $  3,674 $  3,139 
Retail Financial Services3,279 3,427 3,213 3,035 
Card Services1,681 1,907 3,206 2,919 
Commercial Banking992 951 1,010 1,134 
Treasury & Securities Services231 863 1,090 1,397 
Asset Management879 1,216 1,409 1,966 
Corporate(a)(4,378)(3,783)471,775
JPMorgan Chase(a)$  6,338$  8,254$ 13,649$ 15,365
(a) On a continuing operations basis (b) 2004 data are pro forma combined,reßecting the merger of JPMorganChase and Bank One(b)Global Reports LLC
66supervision for clients by $80 billion in 2007. A note of
caution, however: The earnings momentum of this busi-

ness has slowed in 2008 and will continue to lag rates of

growth produced in prior years. Investment performance,

particularly in certain Þxed income and statistical arbitrage

funds, was affected by the extreme conditions of the latter

half of the year. Last summer, when the Þve-year bull 

market ended, we began to see a shift in our clientsÕ port-

folios from higher-yielding assets (equities and alternative

assets) to lower-yielding assets (Þxed income and cash).

We believe it is reasonable to assume that current market 

conditions will impede Asset ManagementÕs ability to

deliver another year of record earnings in 2008. 
In Private Equity, we had an outstanding year with 
pre-tax gains of more than $4 billion
One Equity Partners (OEP) delivered stellar results in 2007.
I hope you all join me in giving them our gratitude for this
banner-year performance, in which OEP contributed two-

thirds of total private equity gains. OEP has now generateda life-to-date realized internal rate of return of more than
50% on its investments. We are thrilled with this achieve-
ment and happy to report the high returns of last year, but
we also appreciate that this level of performance is excep-
tional. As such, we do not expect it to be repeated this year. 
B.Leading Indicators of Real Growth 
We are committed to achieving high quality of earnings.
This means consistently investing in our businesses. This

does not mean increasing short-term earnings by reducinginvestments for the future. So even while our marginswent up, we continued to invest in geographic expansion,
client coverage, product extensions, technology enhance-

ments, employee development and corporate responsibili-

ty. These are areas we believe will drive good, strong
growth in our businesses for decades to come. They are
discussed in more detail below. 
We expanded our footprint both internationally and
domesticallyInternationally, our growth strategy connects the wholesalebusinesses of the Investment Bank, Asset Management,
Commercial Banking and TSS to deliver the right products

and services in the right way to our customers. Because we

look at the world from the point of view of the customer,
we rely upon a local presence and regional operating mod-
els to develop, bundle and provide an appropriate level of
Þnancial support to our clients. So while one line of busi-
ness can bring us into a market, our growth over time is

intended to cut across all of these businesses. In Japan, Korea, India and China, we are using this strategy
to develop and tailor our wholesale platform of products

and services across the region. From four branch locations

in China Ð Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin and Shenzhen Ð 

our 260 employees provide Investment Bank, TSS and

Asset Management services. Commercial Banking opened

new ofÞces in Mumbai and Singapore in 2007. Our total 

headcount in Asia increased by 26% to more than 19,000

employees, and our overall revenue in the region increased

by 47%. Three years ago, in mainland China, Asset

Management had no clients and no assets under manage-

ment. Today, our joint venture is a top-10 asset manager in

China, with more than 5 million customers and $13 billion

in assets under management. Our Þrst QualiÞed Domestic

Institutional Investor product (which allowed residents in

mainland China to invest overseas), launched last year, was

oversubscribed by almost four times. On the Þrst day of the

initial public offering (IPO), it raised a record $15.4 billion

from 1.9 million customers. We were granted licenses 

and launched businesses in Korea and India and ended 

the year there with onshore assets under management of$700 million and $600 million, respectively.
On the domestic front, Commercial Banking opened newofÞces in North America, extending our presence to Atlanta,
Nashville, Philadelphia, Seattle and Vancouver. We also

opened 127 retail bank branches and added 680 ATMs and2,568 in-branch salespeople to help our customers.We increased client coverageOver the years, the Investment Bank has invested hun-
dreds of millions of dollars in Asia and in other emergingmarkets to increase our client coverage, particularly in
countries like China, India and Russia. We will now be
supporting more than 500 companies in those three 

countries, which will mean more research coverage, sales

and trading capability, and, we anticipate, more revenue.

Outside the emerging markets, we added experienced

traders to our energy business. It is an important sector
that continues to be a priority in 2008. We also added
more than 200 new client advisors within the Private
Bank and Private Client Services, a substantial increase 
of staff over prior years.We extended products and expanded services to bettermeet our customersÕ needs
TSS completed various bolt-on acquisitions to expand
parts of the business, including our healthcare electronic

payment services and our U.S. fund services business,which provides fund accounting and reporting to mutual
funds of various sizes. As asset managers and pension

funds are increasingly investing in private equity and
Global Reports LLC
77hedge fund assets, TSS continues to build product 
capabilities to support the processing of these alternative

investments for our clients. Over the past year, TSS has

increased its alternative assets under administration by

more than 80%, and we will be expanding these services

internationally to support clients in Hong Kong,Australia,

Luxembourg and the United Kingdom.
Card Services continues to increase its annual spending on
credit card marketing and reward programs to build out

its slate of innovative card products and reÞne the reward

options (particularly on the Chase Freedom credit card).

And we continue to improve our electronic systems, 

payments and services that offer 24/7 access. For example,

we introduced Chase Mobile, a new text messaging service

that gives U.S. customers easy access through their phones

to account balances, payment histories and due dates. We focused on technology to improve customer service, 
sales, marketing and innovation
In addition to increasing the number of new bankers,
branches and salespeople and as part of our commitmentto expand our products, services and international reach,we will continue to invest in technology. We believe this
investment will be a key driver of growth over the next

decade. Our Þrst step was to operate from one platform.
After a tremendous amount of work on our technology,
systems and data centers, we can now essentially do 

that. This was an enormous accomplishment. Highlightsthis year include: 
¥Flawlessly completing a highly complex wholesaledeposit conversion (the largest in the ÞrmÕs history); in
one weekend, we converted more than 250,000 corpo-

rate clients on all continents, representing $10 trillion 

a day in global deposit transactions, to a single deposit
platform supporting both retail and wholesale clients
with 19 million accounts and $393 billion in balances.   ¥Insourcing our credit card processing platform (another
ÒbiggestÓ in banking history) to improve ßexibility and

lower our cost structure. 
¥Seamlessly converting, in one weekend in the Þrst 
quarter of 2007, all 339 Bank of New York branches,
adding 1.2 million deposit accounts to our platform.¥Upgrading and consolidating our banking data centers
over the last three years, from 109 to 67. Our goal is to

continue to reduce our data centers to 39 by 2010.
Having accomplished the above, we can now refocus our
technology and operational expertise and abilities to the

important and complex process of improving customer

service and quality. We continued to get the most out of our model
We are a global bank with scale, diversiÞcation and 
collaboration across our six lines of business Ð all of which

deliver Þnancial services to individuals and institutions.
ThatÕs our model. We have described this in detail in prior

letters and will not repeat it here. But what really matters is

how well we are able to leverage our collective strength to

create the most value for our customers and shareholders.
We invest in all of our businesses to ensure that each is a
leader in its speciÞc industry and is able to grow organical-

ly. While these businesses do well individually, we believe
they all create great competitive advantage for each other,
too. Over the course of 2007, weÕve clearly seen how each

of our businesses beneÞts from the links across our product
set and how every business gains from being a part of a
strong, respected JPMorgan Chase. It is not about cross

selling for the sake of cross selling. Rather, it is about
focusing our resources and expertise on pursuing natural
product extensions that make things easier and more cost-
effective
for our customers.Below are a few of the tangible examples of how this
approach has beneÞted our company and, more importantly, our clients:
¥Asset ManagementÕs partnership with our other busi-
nesses reached record levels in 2007. Referrals from the
Investment Bank and Commercial Banking resulted 

in new clients with $19 billion in assets, representing

$48 million in annualized new revenue, an increase of

20% in new revenue and 46% in new assets from

referrals in 2006.¥TSS continues to capitalize on the Investment BankÕs
IPO underwriting relationships to secure depositary

receipt mandates worldwide. TSS also leverages the
Investment BankÕs advisory relationships to generate
cash management and escrow business. On the otherside of the ledger, TSS clients with sweep accounts have
that money invested in money market funds with

JPMorgan Asset Management (accounting for more

than 20% of Asset ManagementÕs global money market

fund assets).¥Our broad consumer businesses are collaboratively
building our brand and investing in joint sales andmarketing efforts. We launched a single new brand
campaign across Retail Financial Services and Card

Services under the ÒChase What MattersÓ message.

This uniÞed message aligns our values with those of

our customers Ð by focusing on what matters to them

(e.g., access, protection, advocacy, rewards and value).
Our goal is to make Chase the best brand in con-sumer Þnancial services.
Global Reports LLC
88We advanced our ongoing efforts to recruit, train and
retain top talent and enrich the diversity of our company
Our business, people and reputation are critically impor-
tant assets. We are absolutely committed to attracting and

retaining outstanding individuals. Today, throughout our

company and at every level, you will Þnd exceptionally

talented people. This requires an ongoing commitment Ð
not a stop-and-start approach. A strong pipeline of talent
produces great managers. Over the past three years, we

have been improving our recruiting efforts on campuses
around the world. Our efforts are paying off. We have 
signiÞcantly increased the number of students who accept

our full-time employment offers in the Investment Bank
and have been recognized by 
BusinessWeek
for the qualityof our internship and training programs. Increasingly, 

outstanding students with considerable options agree that

JPMorgan is Òthe place you want to be.Ó
We have also continued to build on solid gains in 2007 
to enhance the diversity of our employee base. To step up

our employment efforts, we have asked one of our top

executives to work directly with me and the humanresources team to focus 100% of his time on recruiting
and retaining outstanding minorities. And as a result, last

year, our company was fortunate to hire more exceptional
minority executives in senior positions than ever before.
We have also increased supplier diversity spending by

32%. Last year, we did more than $700 million of 

business with diversely owned companies.We intensiÞed our corporate responsibility efforts
We believe an integral part of our growth strategy is tofocus our resources where they will do the most good by
supporting the organizations that can make a meaningful

difference to the people who live in communities in which 

we operate. Our Foundation now provides more than 

$110 million in grants annually, more than doubling theamount from $45 million in 2000. Investments range from
building affordable housing in Dallas and New Orleans 

to training New York City public school principals. 
We are also committed to the environment. In developing
our environmental footprint, we adhere to the most strin-
gent guidelines. We also do our part to contribute innova-
tive solutions to environmental issues. 2007 highlightsinclude: creating several conservation programs in-house,
piloting green branches, building a ÒLEEDÓ platinum 

certiÞcate building in London, and renovating our world

headquarters in New York to meet the highest environ-

mental standards. 
We have also worked closely with the U.S. government and
with a number of other institutions to create programs 

to help keep borrowers in their homes. Through our chari-

table support and in helping to develop strong public 

policies, we are determined to materially enhance our

efforts in this area Ð whether itÕs through working with

governments, not-for-proÞts or other community organiza-

tions. We have much more to say about the work we are

doing in this area, which we will express in a detailed

report on corporate responsibility over the coming months.
C.Operating Efficiency and Capital Strength 
Our 2007 progress with regard to these two priorities is
reviewed below.
We continued to boost efforts to increase operating 
efÞciency and reinvest in the business
Many of the investments described in the previous section
were funded by cost savings. By eliminating waste, we were

not only able to run a more efÞcient and effective compa-

ny, but we were also able to invest more where it counts

most. For example, over the course of 2007, we shed 4.3 million square feet of excess real estate globally; since
2003, we have shed 13 million square feet of excess space.
Eliminating this excess real estate has enabled us to becomemore, not less, accessible to our customers. In 2007, these
redeployed savings were used to develop new branches,

international presence and electronic capabilities. We will

stay vigilant to reduce unnecessary expenses and invest in

areas that will also make us stronger down the road.We remained disciplined and committed to preserving a
fortress balance sheetWe operate in risky businesses, and having a fortress balancesheet is a strategic imperative, not a philosophical bent. It is
also a critical differentiator for us Ð especially in uncertaintimes. We achieved it through the following elements:
¥Appropriately conservative accounting.
¥Strong loan loss reserves.
¥Diligent review of all assets and liabilities (on and off
our balance sheet).¥Disciplined reporting and regular reviews across our
businesses.¥A detailed and deep understanding of Ð and constant
focus on Ð the margins and returns of each business

(often at the product level). 
¥Recognition of market cyclicality and continuous 
analysis of our own businesses so that we deliver solid
returns through the cycle Ð not just in good times.Global Reports LLC
99We maintained strength to operate in any environment by:
¥Sustaining a strong capital ratio, whether measured 
by Tier 1 capital (we had 8.4%) or tangible common

equity to assets (we had a ratio of 5%). Under the new

Basel II capital rules, we expect our Tier 1 capital ratio

would be even stronger than we report today.
¥Capitalizing on favorable market conditions early in
2007 to pre-fund a substantial amount of our compa-nyÕs need for capital and long-term debt. This gave us
ßexibility when evaluating Þnancing alternatives during

the second half of the year. 
¥Maintaining (and continuing to maintain) extremely
high liquidity. This means that your company currentlyhas on average a range of $20 billion to $50 billion inovernight investments. This has served us well under
the current market conditions.
¥Increasing our dividend by 12% from the previous year
Ð for the Þrst time in six years. We believe that paying

out 30%-40% of earnings as dividends is generally the
appropriate amount.
¥Repurchasing approximately $8 billion of our stock
because we believe it is a good investment and is consis-
tent with our capital needs. To give us more ßexibility

as we entered a turbulent time, however, we essentially
stopped buying back stock in the third and fourth
quarters of last year. 
We avoided seeking expensive capital from outside sources 
We continually stress test our capital and liquidity needs. To
simplify, what we essentially try to do is stay properly capital-

ized, at current levels, even if called to fund up to $100 bil-
lion of cash needs for our clients or for the corporation. We
think these are conservative (if not worst-case) assumptions,
but if the environment trends more negative, we think our
Tier 1 ratio would remain very strong (particularly relative to
our peers in this type of scenario). Our goal is to continue
serving our clients and building our business without being

pressured to seek expensive equity or debt capital elsewhere.
We used our strong foundation to further our objectives
Not only did our strong balance sheet and liquidity
allow us to sleep better at night, but it also made it 

possible for us to: ¥Support our clients by fulÞlling their capital require-
ments prudently with credit Ð especially as the markets

began to deteriorate in the latter half of 2007.¥Build our business. For example, we took advantage of
what we believed was an opportune time to strengthen

our presence in the mortgage business. 
¥Prepare ourselves to take advantage of emerging 
opportunities, which could include buying good assetsat a reasonable price or evaluating other strategic 
acquisitions that make sense for our shareholders.
II. KEY ISSUES AND LESSONS OF 2007
In the fall of 2007, my daughter called and asked me,
ÒDad, what is a Þnancial crisis?Ó I answered her by saying,
without intending to be funny, ÒItÕs something that 
happens every Þve to 10 years.Ó She then asked, ÒSo 
why is everyone so surprised?Ó
The United States and the world have, in fact, had 
various Þnancial crises every Þve to seven years, probably

for as long as Þnancial history has been recorded. In 

recent times, there was the recession of 1982; the stockmarket crash of 1987; the savings-and-loan and commer-cial real estate crisis of 1990-1991; the market panic of
1997-1998, brought about by the Long Term CapitalManagement and emerging-market crises. Finally, in
2001, the Internet bubble burst, knocking the stock 

market down 40%. 
Looking at all of these crises, some attributes were differ-
ent, but many were the same. The triggering event in
2007 was the bursting of the housing bubble and therelated bad mortgage underwriting standards. In the 10years from 1995-2005, housing prices in the U.S. rose
PPeeeerr CCoommppaarriissoonn ooff TTiieerr 11 CCaappiittaall RRaattiiooss (a)2004 data are pro forma combined,reßecting 
the merger of JPMorgan Chase and Bank OneTier 1 Capital Ratio Ð JPMorgan Chase
Tier 1 Capital Ratio Peers
(Bank of America,Citi,Wachovia,Wells Fargo)
Global Reports LLC
1010135%, far exceeding normal home price increases and out-
stripping traditional measures of affordability. While some

thought the gains were justiÞable, it is clear now that they

were not. As of today, housing prices nationally are down

on average almost 10% since the end of 2006, and it

looks as if they will continue to deteriorate. It is also clear,

in hindsight, that increasingly poor underwriting stan-

dards (e.g., loan-to-value ratios up to 100%, lax veriÞca-

tion of income and inßated appraisals) added fuel to the
speculation and froth in the markets. Many of these poor

mortgage products were also repackaged and dispersed

widely through various securities, thus distributing the

problems more broadly. 
As Warren Buffett says, ÒWhen the tide goes out, you 
can see whoÕs swimming naked.Ó In this crisis, as the tide 

went out, we saw subprime concerns Þrst, then mortgage-

related collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), structured
investment vehicles (SIVs), Alt-A mortgages, mortgage
real estate investment trusts (REITs), the impact on

monolines and, Þnally, very unfortunately for us, home
equity loans. And the tide is still going out.  As this chapter of history continues to be written, we can-
not have the full beneÞt of hindsight. However, there are

some lessons we have already learned and others we can
draw upon from past crises. In the context of todayÕs crisis,
they are worth revisiting.
A.Issues and Insights Specific to the 2007 Financial Crisis
We generally avoided many Ð but not all Ð of the issues
associated with the storm of 2007. LetÕs talk about some
of them in detail. SIVs served no business purpose
We deliberately steered clear of most SIVs because we
viewed them as arbitrage vehicles with plenty of risk, a limit-

ed business purpose and a ßawed design (we sold a small

SIV back in 2005). We also minimized our Þnancing to
SIVs for the same reasons. SIVs will probably disappear Ðexcept for the few that demonstrate a sustainable business
purpose Ð and the world will not miss them. That said, therewere two things related to SIVs that did catch us by surprise:
¥Their growth and its impact. SIVs had grown to a very
large size as an industry segment Ð to approximately $500
billion. And they owned a substantial amount of mortgage

securities, CDOs and bank securities.¥Their propensity to fund long-dated and sometimes 
illiquid assets with short-term commercial paper. 
Whenpeople started questioning the viability of SIVs, themarkets became unwilling to reÞnance their commer-cial paper, and, therefore, many of the SIVs were forced
to liquidate their assets. The banks and money market

funds that were holding SIVsÕ commercial paper began

to experience stress of their own. Fortunately, our

Investment Bank was not directly affected by this issue

because we provided almost no backup credit facilities

to SIVs, and our Asset Management group contained

its exposure to SIVs by limiting its investment to only

the few high-quality, well-structured SIVs.
Subprime mortgages and subprime CDOs were more 
dangerous than we thought 
In 2006, we thought we focused early on the subprime
issue Ð and, in fact, we addressed the subject at length in
last yearÕs Shareholder letter. We became increasingly vigi-
lant in our underwriting and avoided underwriting loans

we were not comfortable holding to maturity. Even so, 
we still found ourselves having to tighten our underwriting
of subprime mortgage loans six times through the end of

2007. (Yes, this means our standards were not toughenough the Þrst Þve times.) In last yearÕs letter, we thought
our losses could increase substantially from 2006 levels. 
In fact, we saw them go up from $47 million in 2006 to$157 million in 2007. And we think they could signiÞ-
cantly elevate in 2008 if economic conditions worsen.
Within our Investment Bank, we avoided large exposure to
subprime loans, mostly by reducing our positions or active-

ly hedging them. We also chose not to become a majorplayer in subprime-related CDOs. Even so, we did lose
substantially more than we expected: $1.4 billion on sub-
prime mortgage and subprime-related CDOs. Although we
generally treat off-balance sheet obligations like on-balance
sheet obligations, a large share of our losses came in certain
off-balance sheet transactions. We will redouble our efforts
to ensure that this does not happen again.
Keeping the above in mind, we still believe that subprime
mortgages are a good product. When subprime loans are

properly underwritten, they serve a meaningful purpose.

They can make a real difference to young families, to those
who experienced Þnancial problems earlier in life, to immi-
grants with little credit history and to the self-employed.
These loans have helped many people achieve the
American dream by buying homes they can afford. Whiletighter underwriting standards have now materially
reduced our production of subprime mortgage loans, we

will continue to Þnd a prudent way to be in this business.
Home equity deteriorated dramatically Home equity is important to our company. We retain all of
our home equity production on our balance sheet, and, atthe end of 2007, we had about $95 billion in our home
Global Reports LLC
1111equity portfolio. The losses in this portfolio are increasing
rapidly and rising at a higher rate than we ever could have

expected, even in a severe recession. In 2007, our net

charge-offs were $564 million, and we added $1.0 billion to

reserves. In 2008, we think charge-offs in the Þrst quarter

could reach $450 million and possibly double by the 

fourth quarter (as a function of the level of home price

depreciation). Since loan loss reserves reßect expected losses,

this will require us to signiÞcantly increase these reserves. 
There will undoubtedly be more lessons to come as the
deterioration of the home equity business continues, but
there are three lessons we have already learned the hard way:
¥We underestimated the size of the housing bubble and the
rapid rate of depreciation. 
While we recognized the exis-
tence of a housing bubble, the rate and severity of the

housing price depreciation surprised us. We also missed

the impact of increasingly aggressive underwriting 

standards on housing price appreciation and increased

speculation and froth in the market. Finally, we did not

see that the ever rising housing prices over the 10-year

period were masking potential losses. When these lossescame into clear view, as a result of the increasinglyaggressive underwriting standards, much of the damage
had already been done.
¥We misjudged the impact of more aggressive underwriting
standards. 
Over many years, loan-to-value (LTV) ratios
had increased from 80% to 85% to 90%, etc.; income

veriÞcation became a less important part of the process;

and appraisals became overly optimistic. These trends led to far more aggressive underwriting. While each individual change seemed reasonable at the time and
losses seemed to be contained, we now know that was 

a mirage. Multiple changes occurring over many years
have essentially altered the nature of the product.
We should have acted sooner and more substantially to
reduce the LTV rates at which we lent, given the
increased risk of falling prices in a market of highlyinßated housing values. We also should have tightened
all other standards (e.g., income veriÞcation) in response

to growing speculation in the market and the increasingpropensity of people to respond to aggressive lending
standards by buying houses they could barely afford.
¥We would have been better off had we imposed tighter
controls on the outside mortgage broker business. We usedthe same underwriting guidelines for outside mortgage
brokers as we did for our own mortgage bankers. In

hindsight, this was a mistake. We wish we had applied

tighter standards to outside brokers. Losses attributable

to outside brokers have always been two to three times

greater than losses on mortgages we produce internally.

That is the reason we closed the broker business at
Bank One. We have now materially tightened standards
across the board, and our standards for outside brokers

are even tighter. Although home equity production

through the broker channel decreased by as much as

60% by the fourth quarter of 2007, we believe the

quality of underwriting has improved signiÞcantly.
The home equity business seems to have fundamentally
changed from the way it was meant to be: a means of con-

servatively giving people access to cash from equity in their

house. It has since evolved into a business that has allowed

people to take leveraged bets on the assumption that the

value of their home will increase. When home equity

returns to its original purpose and practice, it will be a 

very good business again. For that reason, we intend not

only to stay in it but to become the best in the business.   Leveraged lending had a tough year, but it will continue
to be part of our core business
In 2007, we continued to hold the No.1 market position 
in global syndicated Þnance and high-yield debt, and we
intend to maintain these top rankings. Leveraged lending isan activity that has long been Ð and will continue to be Ð a
critically important way for us to serve our clients. In total,

over the last Þve years, our syndicated leveraged Þnance

business has generated average annual revenue of $1.2 
billion. In 2007, after taking losses of $1.3 billion, net of
fees (which makes us very unhappy), this business still 

generated $475 million in revenue. We made some mistakesthis past year, and weÕve learned the following:  
¥We should have been more diligent when negotiating andstructuring commitment letters. 
A few years ago, commit-
ments to fund future transactions were not reßected on

our balance sheet until the details were Þnalized and the

Þnal, binding letter was signed. In the event of a materi-
al change in market conditions, this practice provided

lenders with the ability to make important amendments

to the letter and/or to the price at which it could be
sold. Over time, however, this ßexibility disappeared,
but we were still held to the original terms of the commitment letters. This meant that when the market
deteriorated, we still had to fund the transaction. Uponfunding, instead of making an average fee of 2% to 3%,
we lost 5%. These commitment letters had essentially

become puts on the market. That is, if the markets were

strong, things were Þne, but if the markets collapsed (as

they did), we would be stuck with the original price and

could lose a substantial amount of money. This is a one-sided bet and one that subjects us to losses every timethe markets crash Ð an occurrence that is as inevitable 
as it is painful. Now, having recognized the value of
these puts, we fully acknowledge the risks we are taking
when we sign these letters.
Global Reports LLC
1212¥We cannot allow ourselves to be pushed into positions that
are too risky. 
We simply cannot follow the market like
lemmings or allow ourselves to succumb to demands or

pressures that compromise our credit standards and lead

to bad decisions. In every deal we do, we must insist on

fair treatment and adequate compensation for the risk we

are asked to assume. A lot of people with whom we do

business in leveraged Þnance are among the most sophis-

ticated, creative and tough businesspeople we know. But

true long-term partners understand that a healthy busi-

ness relationship is a two-way street that must work for

both parties over a long period of time. Bad Þnancial

practices, like equity bridges or excessive leverage, are not

good for us or, ultimately, for our partners.
B. Lessons Learned: Some Old, Some New 
Different triggering events ignite each Þnancial crisis.
Once under way, however, these crises have much in com-

mon. As they say, history may not repeat, but it rhymes.

Hard lessons learned from past crises have relevance for 

us today. LetÕs revisit a number of them as follows:   
Markets can get very volatile 
For years, the Þnancial industry had been the beneÞciary 
of relatively stable Þnancial conditions. From 2001
through the Þrst half of 2007, markets were fairly benign,making it easier to get lulled into a false sense of securityand to lose sight of how risky the Þnancial environment

can be. We must always remind ourselves that markets 
can become volatile very quickly and when least expected.
For those traders who began their careers after the crisis 

of 1998, it was especially hard to accept that spreads and

prices could widen by 250 basis points in a matter of days.

Our responsibility as managers is to ensure, at every level

of trading, there exists a consistency in our approach and 

a deep respect for unpredictability of markets.
There is no substitute for good judgment and strong oversight 
Risk models are valuable tools, but they have limitations.
Because they are backward-looking by design, they tend 

to miss certain factors. The value of stress testing is also 
a function of time frame. For example, scenarios may 
be compromised because the data may not go back farenough. We use value-at-risk (VAR) and stress testing, but
they are only part of what we consider good risk manage-ment. Good, sound, old-fashioned human judgment is
critical. Strong risk management entails constant reportingand review, exposure by exposure, and the ability to size
up exposures instantly with the right systems. Managers

must know the tough questions to ask Ð especially withregard to stress-test loss scenarios Ð and have the ability to
stay on top of all the important issues. Intense oversight

by and information-sharing with managers is absolutely

key, as is access to the expertise of independent pricing

and valuation groups. Finally, assumptions need to be 

tested constantly. That said, we all know even when every-

thing is done right, there still will be volatile results and

mistakes. But if things are not done correctly, then the

outcomes can be disastrous.
When markets get volatile, almost all risky assets reprice 
This is not a surprise Ð it has happened almost every time
markets get volatile. 
In difÞcult market conditions, liquid assets become illiquid 
What happened to jumbo mortgages, commercial mortgage-
backed securities, leveraged loans and CDOs are examples

of this phenomenon. And because Þnancial companies have

assets that are no longer easily sold, they are less willing 

to take additional risk in the marketplace. This not only 

compounds the problem, but it also creates a new problem:skepticism about whether or not a company with illiquidassets can meet its short-term obligations.
Problems occur when there is too much short-term 
Þnancing funding long-term assets
There is one Þnancial commandment that cannot be 
violated: Do not borrow short to invest long Ð particularly
against illiquid, long-term assets. As it turns out, somehedge funds, REITs, SIVs, CDOs and certain Þnancialinstitutions did exactly that. In these kinds of markets,
when the value of short-term investments is questioned,

such as money market funds or commercial paper, a crisis
can easily ensue. Individuals, acting rationally to protecttheir own interests, race to sell securities; but, in aggregate,
this process by market participants can easily take on a life

of its own and escalate into a panic.
A fortress balance sheet protects the franchise
As I mentioned earlier, a fortress balance sheet is a strate-
gic imperative Ð especially in turbulent market conditions

like these. No matter what conditions are, we always want

to have the capital, liquidity, reserves and overall strength

to be there for our clients and to continue investing wisely

in the business.Irrational expectations impede quality growth
Sometimes thereÕs so much pressure on companies to
expand their businesses that they end up pushing their
own people to grow, grow, grow. Often people feel this
Global Reports LLC
13III.ON TO 2008 (AND LOOKING FORWARD 
TO 2009)
In the summer of 2007, we began to prepare for a downturn
in the market. While we have successfully weathered the
storm thus far, we face new uncertainties every day. Despite
the continued turmoil, we are encouraged to see many of the

problems resolving at a fairly decent pace. Yet, while we

hope the remaining issues will be sorted out expeditiously

and a lengthy recession will be averted, we cannot count on

this being the case. We need to confront the possibility that

todayÕs upheaval could result in serious market deterioration

that the U.S. has not experienced since 1982. To prepare for

this possibility, we need to have a clear sense of our risks.
A.Key Potential Risks
What follows is a discussion of the risks that concern us
most and some of our thoughts about how to address them.
There is still substantial risk on our balance sheetWe are generally comfortable with the values, the hedging
and the loan reserves on our balance sheet. But we also 
recognize that many of our positions, while somewhathedged, are still quite risky. Hedges, by their very nature,
are imperfect. We focus on this risk by viewing our assets

on a gross basis. Relying solely upon a net basis implies that

it is not possible to lose money on both sides of a complex
trade. We know, however, that this is quite possible.
Some of our largest exposures in the Investment Bank as of
year-end are listed below: 
¥$26.4 billion in funded and unfunded leveraged loans:
We have written these loans down by more than 6% but
acknowledge that they could easily deteriorate more in
value. However, at current levels, we believe they repre-
sent a good long-term value. So, in early 2008, we decid-
ed to add $4.9 billion to the $3.2 billion of leveraged

loans we were already holding as long-term investments. 
¥$15.5 billion in commercial mortgage-backed exposure:
The majority of this exposure is securities and loans, active-

ly credit-hedged and risk-managed; 64% is triple-A rated. 
¥$2.7 billion in subprime mortgage and subprime CDO-related exposure: Approximately $200 million of this
exposure is subprime CDO; the remainder is comprised

of subprime loans, residuals and bonds. 
¥$5.5 billion in CDO warehouse and unsold positions:
92% are corporate loan underlying; subprime is negligible.
¥$6.4 billion in Alt-A mortgage exposure: Most are triple-
A securities and Þrst-lien mortgages.13pressure most when market conditions are good. But it 
is when markets turn bad that such pressure can lead to 

dangerous outcomes for all businesses Ð and especially for

volatile businesses like investment banking that take risks.

Standards are reduced, too many compromises are made

and thereÕs a lack of focus on what is in the best interest 

of clients. It is easy to grow a business when taking on

additional risk Ð but that is often the worst thing to do.

Growth expectations need to be rational. We know there

are times when we should not strive to grow certain areas

of the business. This is an operating philosophy that 

protects us from the costly consequences of bad growth.
Risk models that rationalize a lower level of capital 
contribute to poor judgment To maximize the size of a potential risk position, models 
are often designed to justify
as little capital as possible. For
example, numerous triple-A, super-senior CDOs drew little
regulatory capital and, therefore, looked safe with good

returns. That safety and those returns turned out to be anillusion. This is why it is important for us to understand our
risks inside and out and to maintain sufÞcient economiccapital against that risk. We measure risk by how bad things
could be Ð not how good they are.
Financial turmoil increases the chance of recession Ð and
the specter of recession weighs heavily on the market 
It is important to note that the turbulence weÕve experi-
enced occurred in a good economy. And while Þnancial
conditions have a serious impact on the global economy,

they do not Ð in and of themselves Ð necessarily cause arecession. In fact, many severe Þnancial crises have not
resulted in recessions. That said, the weaker the economy
gets, the greater the impact could be across all our lines of
business. Tight Þnancial conditions (e.g., the reduction of

credit, the outright removal of credit in certain markets

and the higher costs of credit) make it harder and more

costly for individuals and companies to borrow money

and, therefore, weaken the economy.
As these conditions worsen, the possibility of a deep reces-
sion increases. As the specter of a recession weighs more

heavily on the normal functioning of capital markets, so too does the fear about the possibility of a recession. 
Why take additional risk when we might be in a recession?Investors decide they donÕt want to take the risk so they
may remove money from banks, commercial paper and

money market funds in order to buy treasuries. Such areaction isnÕt necessarily unwise or inappropriate, but it
does help to create a self-fulÞlling prophesy. 
Global Reports LLC
1414Most of these exposures are marked-to-market daily. While
they can ßuctuate considerably in value on a single day and

can dramatically affect any one quarterÕs results, we believe

many of them now have decent long-term value. It is also

worth noting that our gross exposures are, in general, lower

than those of most of our competitors. I have already discussed our subprime and home equity
exposures. With regard to our Commercial Bank, an expo-

sure worth bringing to your attention is the $16.5 billion

in commercial real estate exposure. This position is well-

diversiÞed and represents only 12% of our total Commercial

Bank credit portfolio. We have been very conservative in

growing this exposure in recent years. On a percentage 

and absolute basis, it represents less than half the average

exposure of our Commercial Bank peers. 
The Þnancial stability of some monoline bond insurers
remains an issue 
Some market analysts believe there could be a downgrading
of the monoline bond insurers Ð from their triple-A rating
status to double-A status or worse Ð and possibly one or
more defaults. Our gross exposures to monolines are signif-icant and cut across multiple product lines and businesses.
However, in spite of the market talk around this issue, we

do not regard a downgrade to double-A as a major event.
While no one could know all of the ramiÞcations of a
worst-case default scenario, we believe the impact Ð while

costly for JPMorgan Chase Ð would be manageable. New products often will have problems
We need to keep a close eye on the design, trading and opera-tional aspects of new Þnancial products. Almost all new prod-
ucts go through periods of stress and market-testing, which,
in turn, causes problems of one sort or another. At one time,

even basic equity trading nearly brought Wall Street to its

knees when the volume of trades exceeded the systemsÕ processing capacity. There have been similar problems with
exotic mortgage products, options, foreign exchange, high-

yield bonds, hybrid derivatives and so on. In many cases,these issues were eventually resolved through the creation of 
standardized contracts and standard industry exchanges and 

clearinghouses. These, in turn, facilitated more efÞciency in

the clearing and netting of risk, provided better regulatory
controls and led to stronger management oversight.
Many market participants expected derivatives to be at the
heart of the next Þnancial crisis. So far, most derivatives

markets have averted the storm, and derivatives have served

as an essential tool for some companies to use in shedding
or hedging risk That said, there are some legitimate con-

cerns. A severe economic downturn could put extreme pres-
sure on the settlement and clearance functions in some of
the derivatives markets. With this and other concerns in
mind, we can assure you that we are paying close attention

to our derivatives positions and exposure. In addition, we

are strongly in favor of regulatory and industry efforts to

coordinate and improve the control environment.  
A recession will have a signiÞcant impact on credit
Our business is cyclical, and one of the largest risks we
face is the impact of a recession on credit in general. In
last yearÕs letter, we addressed the recession and credit
issue, and what we said then bears repeating now:
We continuously analyze and measure our risk. In fact,
during budget planning, we ask our management teams

to prepare Ð on all levels Ð for difÞcult operating environ-

ments. While the risk comes in many forms, such as reces-

sion, market turmoil and geopolitical turbulence, one of

our largest risks is still the credit cycle. Credit losses, both

consumer and wholesale, have been extremely low, perhaps

among the best weÕll see in our lifetimes. We must be 

prepared for a return to the norm in the credit cycle. 
In a tougher credit environment, credit losses could rise
signiÞcantly, by as much as $5 billion over time, which

may require increases in loan loss reserves. Investment

Bank revenue could drop, and the yield curve could

sharply invert. This could have a signiÞcant negative

effect on JPMorgan ChaseÕs earnings. That said, these

events generally do not occur simultaneously, and there

would likely be mitigating factors to lift our earnings

(e.g., compensation pools would probably go down, some

customer fees and spreads would probably go up, and

funding costs could decrease).
ItÕs important to share these scenarios with you, not to
worry you but to be as transparent as possible about the

potential impact of these negative scenarios and to let you

know how we are preparing for them. We do not know

exactly what will occur or when, but we do know that

bad things happen. There is no question that our compa-

nyÕs earnings could go down substantially in a recession-

ary environment. But if we are prepared, we can both

minimize the damage to our company and capitalize on

opportunities in the marketplace. 
(Shareholder letter, 2006)
Because of the extreme drop in home equity and subprime
loan value, the losses I referred to last year could be evengreater in 2008. However, we believe our strong capital
and the increase of our loan loss reserves have put us in

good shape. In 2007, we added $2 billion to loan loss

reserves, and we expect to continue adding to those
reserves in 2008. Our reserve positions across all of our
businesses are among the best in the industry. Global Reports LLC
1515Managing in a downturn requires a different strategy
The impact of a downturn Ð and its effect on earnings Ð
varies considerably by line of business. Therefore, it

requires each of our businesses to develop its own strategy
for dealing with the unique set of risks and mitigating 
factors it could face. In some cases, returns could actually

increase (because of higher spreads), while in other cases

they could decrease (because of lower volumes). In any
case, however, we will remain committed to building the
business. As such, we will not sacriÞce long-term value and

meaningful customer service to get better quarterly earn-
ings. In fact, in certain situations, we may actually trade 
off near-term earnings to gain customers and build market

share in businesses that are Þnancially viable and of strate-
gic importance. In those instances, we are also conÞdent
that healthy earnings will return. We believe the only time

to sacriÞce good growth is to protect the Þnancial standing
of the company. Fortunately, we are not in that position.
B.Looking Forward 
We believe the mortgage business will rebound
In spite of all the difÞculties in the mortgage markets, we
remain committed to building the countryÕs best mortgage

company. The mortgage product is, and will continue tobe, the largest and arguably one of the single most impor-tant Þnancial products in the world. With our brand,
scale, systems, retail branches and our ability to trade,hedge and underwrite mortgages (which include prime,

subprime, Alt-A, jumbo and home equity loans), we have

what it takes to be a winner in this business. During the

latter part of 2007, we set out to increase our home lend-

ing market share and have, so far, succeeded. By the end
of the fourth quarter of 2007, our share had grown to

11% from 6% a year earlier. As a result of our liquidity

and capital strength, we were able to underwrite these

loans when others could not. Although we may pay forprobably starting this expansion a little too early, we
remain committed to the goal. 
The risks and rewards of highly structured products will
be re-evaluated and changed, but ÒsecuritizationÓ willremain viable 
JPMorgan is a large participant in the asset-backed securi-ties market (which includes CDOs), and we try to focus
on products we believe are transparent and offer reason-
able risks and rewards to investors. We deliberately chose
to avoid the more structured CDO products because we

believed the inherent risks were too high. Additionally, 

our knowledge of the subprime business informed our

decision to remain very cautious about any subprime
CDOs, where the bulk of the problems has occurred. 
We think thereÕs a place for structured CDOs but not in 

their most complicated forms, such as ÒCDO-squared.Ó

Standards will be materially enhanced (in terms of accoun-

ting, operations and ratings guidelines), and many overly

complex products will go the way of the dinosaur.
We also believe that while there will likely be changes 
to the securitization markets, securitization of assets will

not go away. Securitization is a highly effective way to

Þnance assets. In fact, many securitized products, like

credit cards, have been tested through the market cycle

and have not had signiÞcant problems. Securitization of

subprime assets will probably reopen, too Ð but the 

standards will be more conservative, and there will be far

more clarity (e.g., better underwriting standards, more

capital, etc.). Market discipline, in some form, will also

come to bear at each stage of the production chain Ð from
the originator to the packager to the seller Ð and require
each to have the right amount of skin in the game. We are

not sure how it will change, but, between regulation and
the market, we know it will Ð and probably for the better.
Accounting can be abused and misusedThereÕs been a lot of discussion about the pros and cons of
the mark-to-model versus the mark-to-market approach.

We believe it is critically important to trust the value of 
the assets and liabilities on (and off) oneÕs balance sheet.
Regardless of the method one uses (mark-to-market,

mark-to-model, etc.), accounting can be abused. This let-ter is not the right place in which to carry on this debate,
but sufÞce it to say, accounting has become increasingly
complex. Much of this complexity is unnecessary andleads to questionable results, adds to earnings volatility
and creates 
more
room for shenanigans, not less. More
work needs to be done to Þx this. 
Many of our accounting and regulatory capital requirements
are pro-cyclical 
Many of the methods we use to calculate capital and loanloss reserves are pro-cyclical. In fact, loan loss reserves and
capital are often at their lowest levels at precisely the point

at which a cyclical downturn begins. In addition, I would

argue that fair value accounting rules, margining require-
ments, rating agencies and regulatory rules add to pro-
cyclical behavior. Thoughtful policy changes could provide
a substantial cushion to the pro-cyclical forces that make a
Þnancial crisis worse. A comprehensive effort between all

parties involved (regulators, government and Þnancial insti-tutions) is needed to develop and drive forward these
important policy changes. 
Global Reports LLC
16More assets on the books of banks or Þnancial companies
are illiquid (or can quickly become illiquid)
Given this trend, regulators and rating agencies will proba-
bly insist that the rise of illiquid assets requires higher 

levels of capital and proper funding with longer-term debt.
There will be a recovery
We simply cannot know how long this slowdown (or
recession) will last or the extent of the damage it will

cause. TodayÕs most brilliant economists have various

strong, well-argued current views on the subject Ð they

just donÕt all agree. In any case, our goal is to be prepared. 
In reality, our Þnancial system has fairly rapidly and suc-
cessfully, if not painfully, been dealing with most of the
issues IÕve discussed in this letter. Losses have been taken,
substantial capital has been raised and massive deleverag-

ing has already taken place in hedge funds, SIVs, Þnancial
companies, REITs, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs)
and CDOs. While all losses may not be recognized yet,

our sense is that a lot have been (at least for U.S. compa-

nies). Importantly, the creation of new potential-problemassets (leveraged loans, subprime assets, CLOs, CDOs and
commercial mortgage-backed securities) has virtually ceased.
So, demand will eventually catch up with an ever-
diminishing supply of increasingly attractively priced 

assets. It is unlikely that the pace of deleveraging will 

intensify. Therefore, it is probable that the Þnancial crisis
will mitigate by year-end. In addition, fairly large Þscal 
and monetary stimulation and the new mortgage rules for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal HousingAuthority (which will bring more capital to the mortgage
market) could have a positive effect on the markets overall.  
Yet, even if Þnancial conditions improve, the economy could
continue to erode, causing us to remain in a recessionary

environment for a while. And it may sound peculiar (if, in
fact, we are going into a recession) that we are also preparing
for interest rates that may trend a lot higher over the next

several years (we wonÕt go into the reasons now). 
We would also like to assure you, all of our shareholders,
that while we are preparing for an extended Þnancial crisis,

we will never lose sight of our primary purpose to build a

strong company and great franchise for the long term. 
IV.IN CLOSING
Finally, I would like to make a few comments about your
management team. You donÕt get to see these professionals

in action as I do, but if you did, you would be extremely

proud of them. Not only are they ethical, disciplined 

and thoughtful, but the tougher conditions became, the
more they stepped up to support the Þrm. People canceled

time off and worked or ßew through the night to quickly

respond to the extraordinary circumstances of the past

year. Everyone shared information, offered to help and

actively demonstrated how much they care about the work
they do and the customers they serve. I am privileged to
be part of this great team. 
Our senior managers are all shareholders Ð they retain
75% of any restricted stock and options they receive ascompensation. In this and countless other ways, the management team sets a stellar example for all employees
of what it means to be invested in the companyÕs long-

term success. Currently, 140,000 out of 180,000 
employees own stock in the company. 
All of us are dedicated to building a great company of
which you, our shareholders, our customers and all of our

employees can be proud É and we are well on our way.
Jamie Dimon
Chairman and Chief Executive OfÞcer
March 10, 2008 Global Reports LLC
1JJaammiiee DDiimmoonnChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer
2FFrraannkk BBiissiiggnnaannooChief Administrative Office
3SStteevveeBBllaacckkInvestment Bank 
4JJoohhnn BBrraaddlleeyyHuman Resources
5MMiikkee CCaavvaannaagghhFinance 
6SStteevvee CCuuttlleerrLegal & Compliance
7BBiillll DDaalleeyyCorporate Responsibility
8IInnaa DDrreewwChief Investment Office 
9TToodddd MMaacclliinnCommercial Banking
10JJaayy MMaannddeellbbaauummStrategy & Marketing 
11HHeeiiddii MMiilllleerrTreasury & Securities Services 
12CChhaarrlliiee SScchhaarrffRetail Financial Services
13GGoorrddoonn SSmmiitthhCard Services
14JJeess SSttaalleeyyAsset Management
15BBiillll WWiinntteerrssInvestment Bank 
16BBaarrrryy ZZuubbrroowwRisk Management
OPERATING COMMITTEE
Leadership Team
12961047812161431315511          Global Reports LLC
2007Highlights and Accomplishments
¥Institutional InvestorÕs AmericaÕs 
Investment Bank of the Year.
¥RiskmagazineÕs:
Ð Derivatives House of the Year;

Ð Best Derivatives House of the Past 20 

ÐYears; and
Ð Best Credit Derivatives House Ð Pioneer

Ðand Modern Great. 
¥#1 in global investment banking fees.
(a)¥#1 in global loan syndications and 
global high-yield bonds for the third year
in a row.
(b)
¥#2 in equity underwriting, up from #6 
in 2006.(b)
¥Revenue of more than $5 billion in equity underwriting and equity markets.
¥Record year-over-year revenue 
performance in: 

Ð Investment banking fees, 19% growth;

Ð M&A advisory fees, 37% growth;

Ð Equity underwriting fees, 45% growth; 

ÐandÐ Equity markets revenue, 13% growth.
¥Gross investment banking revenue 
from Commercial Banking clients up 
24% from 2006.
¥Strong progress on growth initiatives,
including energy, emerging markets and
retail structured products.
¥Low subprime exposure relative to the
financial industry.
¥Outstanding first half offset by more 
difficult second half with leveraged loan
and credit-related writedowns. 
JPMorgan is one of the worldÕs
leading investment banks with 

one of the most extensive client

lists in the world. Our full platform

enables us to develop some of the
most complete and innovative

financial solutions in the industry.
We offer clients a full range of 
services, including strategic advice,

capital raising, restructuring, risk

management, market-making and

research. We cover clients in more

than 100 countries and have global

leadership positions in our key
products. JPMorgan also commits

its own capital to proprietary

investing and trading activities. 

We continue to strengthen 

our platform and develop new 

products to meet clientsÕneeds.
ÒDespite the industry-wide
challenges we faced during

the second half of 2007, 
we still produced record
full-year revenue in several
areas. Looking ahead to
2008, we believe having 
a fortress balance sheet will
prove a sizable advantage

at a time when capital is at 

a premium.Ò
Steve Black (left) 
co-CEO Investment Bank 
ÒThe risk management lessonswe learned from the past 
paid dividends this year andhelped us avoid some of the pitfalls that affected theindustry. While we remain 
cautious about the near-term
outlook, we believe we are

extremely well-positioned for

the long term with strong

client relationships, global leadership positions and highcapital ratios.Ó
Bill Winters (right)
co-CEO Investment Bank
Investment Bank
(a)Dealogic(b)Thomson FinancialGlobal Reports LLC
19¥Expanded market share in mortgages 
and home equity to 11% in the fourthquarter, up from 6% a year earlier.
(a)Originated $208 billion in home loansduring the year even as we tightened 
our underwriting standards.
¥Increased third-party mortgage servicing
portfolio 17% to $615 billion.
¥Increased active online customer base
21%; generated 258 million online 
transactions, including bill payment and
electronic payment, an increase of 38%.
¥Improved customer experience and 
sales through refurbishment, rebranding,
technology conversion and sales process

enhancements at former Bank of New
York branches. 
Retail Financial Services serves 
consumers and businesses through

personal service at bank branches
and through ATMs, online banking
and telephone banking as well as through loan offices, auto 
dealerships and school financial 
aid offices. Customers can use more than3,100 bank branches (fourth-
largest nationally), 9,100 ATMs (#3)
and 290 mortgage offices. More
than 13,700 branch salespeople
assist customers with checking 
and savings accounts, mortgages,
home equity and business loans,
and investments across the 17-state
footprint from New York to Arizona.
Consumers also can obtain loans
through more than 14,500 auto

dealerships and 5,200 schools and
universities nationwide.
Retail Financial Services
ÒCapitalizing on the strength of the Chase
brand, weÕll continue to expand our branch
and ATM network to increase convenience
for our customers. We will strengthen our
team of well-trained bankers and mortgage

officers and improve our products to help 

customers handle their money, finance 

their homes, run their businesses and 
manage their investments, deepening 

their relationship with Chase. 
ÒWe have tightened our underwriting 
standards and are using our financial

strength during this period of economic

uncertainty to expand relationships, gain

new customers and position ourselves for
long-term growth across our businesses.Ò
Charlie Scharf Ð CEO Retail Financial Services 
2007Highlights and Accomplishments¥Opened 127 new branches (and a total of 528 since 2004) and added 680 ATMs
(2,536 since 2004) in major Chase markets.¥Increased in-branch personal bankers,
business bankers, mortgage officers andinvestment specialists by a combined
2,568, or 23%, including additions from
the 2006 acquisition of The Bank of 
New York branches.
¥Increased in-branch sales of credit cards
23%, mortgages 31% and investments 23%.¥Increased checking accounts by 844,000,
or 8%, and deposits 3% to $221 billion.
¥Increased number of households with coreretail relationships 12% to 10.3 million.
¥Increased business banking loan 
originations 20% to $6.8 billion.
(a)Source:Inside Mortgage Finance19Global Reports LLC
202007Highlights and Accomplishments¥Added 16 million new Visa, MasterCard
and private label accounts.
¥Maintained ChaseÕs position as the
second-leading issuer of MasterCard 

and Visa cards in the U.S.¥Moved core processing platform 
in-house, allowing for greater techno-

logical innovation, more flexibility

and reduced costs.
¥Further enhanced the innovative 
Chase Freedom program, which gives
cardmembers the choice of earning 
either cash or points and changing 

back and forth without leaving any

rewards behind. The Chase Freedom 
program has generated more than 
one million new customers since its 2006 launch.¥Better leveraged the JPMorgan Chase
franchise by increasing the number 
of credit cards sold through the Retail
Financial Services network by 23% 
from 2006.
¥Increased charge volume by $15 billion
from 2006.
¥Increased net revenue 3% and grew 
managed loans 3% while investing in
activities to attract new customers and
further engage current cardmembers.
¥Increased merchant processing volume 
to $719 billion, up 9% from 2006, throughChase Paymentech Solutions, LLC, the
nationÕs largest merchant processor.
With 155 million cards in circula-
tion and more than $157 billion 

in managed loans, Chase CardServices is one of the nationÕs
largest credit card issuers. 
Customers used Chase cards 
to meet more than $354 billion

worth of their spending needs 

in 2007.With hundreds of partnerships,
Chase has a market leadership

position in building loyalty 

programs with many of the

worldÕs most respected brands. 
Card Services
ÒIn a challenging environment, 
we generated solid momentum 

in 2007 and established a clear
vision for the future. Chase Card

Services aims to create lifelong,

engaged relationships with our

customers by being a trusted

provider of financial services. We

are supporting our vision with a
solid growth strategy Ð focusing
our efforts on key marketplace

segments, including the small
business, mass affluent and 
high-net-worth markets.Ó
Gordon Smith Ð CEO Card Services 
Global Reports LLC
Commercial Banking
ÒCommercial Banking performed exceptionally well in a volatile and 
challenging economic environment,

retaining a position of strength in 

our markets and resulting in record
growth consistent with our 2007 plan.
ÒIn 2008, we will redouble our 
prospecting efforts to broaden our 

market coverage, maintain a strong 

and well-managed loan portfolio, 
and continue to make smart credit 
decisions. We will also practice 

diligent expense control and remain
vigilant over market conditions to 
provide insightful and disciplinedadvice to our clients.Ó
Todd Maclin Ð CEO Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking
2007Highlights and Accomplishments
¥Increased net income 12% to a record 
$1.1 billion and net revenue 8% to a

record $4.1 billion.
¥Achieved record results in gross invest-
ment banking revenue of $888 million,

treasury services revenue of $2.4 billion,

loan balances of $61.1 billion and liability

balances of $87.7 billion.
¥#1 commercial bank in market penetration
within ChaseÕs retail branch footprint.
(a)¥#2 large middle-market lender in the U.S.
(b)
¥#2 asset-based lender in the U.S.
(b)
¥Launched seven new offices, expanding
coverage in Atlanta, Nashville, Philadel-
phia and Seattle, including three 
international locations in Vancouver,
Mumbai and Singapore.
¥Added in excess of 2,200 new banking
relationships through accelerated calling
efforts and targeted marketing initiatives.
¥Maintained favorable market position 
relative to the industry through 

conservative credit underwriting and
strong credit reserves.
¥Converted the wholesale New York 
Tri-State customer base of more than

332,000 deposit accounts, representing

almost $28 billion, and migrated 

customers acquired from The Bank of 

New York to the firmÕs platforms.
¥Delivered focused leadership training to
more than 500 managers and enhanced
employee diversity and performance 
initiatives.
Commercial Banking serves more
than 30,000 clients nationally, 

including corporations, munici-

palities, financial institutions and 

not-for-profit entities with annual

revenue generally ranging from 

$10 million to $2 billion.It is the 

#1 commercial bank in market 

penetration within ChaseÕs retail

branch footprint.
(a)Commercial Banking delivers 
extensive industry knowledge, local

expertise and a dedicated service

model. In partnership with the 

firmÕs other businesses, it provides
comprehensive solutions, including
lending, treasury services, invest-
ment banking and asset manage-ment to meet its clientsÕdomestic
and international financial needs.
(a)Barlow Footprint Study,2007
(b) Loan Pricing Corporation,2007
Global Reports LLC
ÒOur businesses posted record 
results in 2007. Going forward, we 
see our most promising opportunities
emerging in key markets outside the U.S., and weÕre confident weÕll 
continue to effectively grow our 

businesses around the world. 
ÒIn 2008, we will expand on our 
success by enhancing our products 
and delivery of services to our 
clients Ð not only to improve efficiency

and reduce costs but also to ensure we can adequately support the 
tremendous growth in business we continue to experience.Ó
Heidi Miller 
CEO Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services
2007Highlights and Accomplishments
¥ Increased net income 28% year-over-year
to a record $1.4 billion on the strength of

record net revenue of $6.9 billion.
¥ Increased assets under custody 15% to
$15.9 trillion and liability balances 21% to

$228.9 billion.¥ #1 in Sameday U.S. Dollar Funds Transfers
(a),Automated Clearing House Originations
(b),CHIPS(c)and Fedwire.
(d)¥ Grew revenue 26% outside the U.S. and
strengthened our international presence,

securing regulatory approval to connect to

China's electronic clearing system and grow-
ing our hedge fund, image deposit, euro
payment, private equity, commercial card

and other capabilities in targeted markets.
¥ Migrated to a single U.S. dollar deposit plat-
form in JPMorgan Chase's largest conversion,
involving almost $180 billion in balances and

nearly $10 trillion in daily transactions.
Treasury & Securities Services is 
a global leader in transaction, 

investment and information services. 

We are one of the worldÕs largest

cash management providers and a
leading global custodian, operating

through two divisions: 
Treasury Services provides cash man-
agement, trade, wholesale card and 

liquidity products and services to

small- and mid-sized companies,

multinational corporations, financial

institutions and government entities.
Worldwide Securities Servicesholds, 
values, clears and services securities,

cash and alternative investments 

for investors and broker-dealers 

and manages depositary receipt 

programs globally.
(a)Ernst & Young
(b)NACHA
(c)The Clearing House

(d)Federal Reserve
¥ Completed acquisitions of Xign 
Corporation, a leading provider of 

business-to-business on-demand financial

settlement solutions; of FisaCure, Inc., a
leading provider of electronic remittance

services to the healthcare industry; and of

the U.S. transfer agency services business

of Integrated Investment Services. 
¥ Introduced new offerings to support 
comprehensive financial supply chain and

border logistics management; card-based

invoice settlement for accounts payable; 

and the securities processing and fund 

administration needs of financial institutions.
¥ Industry awards included Best Overall
Bank for Payments and Collections in

North America (
Global Finance), Best
Investor Services (
Waters magazine) andBest Liquidity Solution Provider (
The Asset).Global Reports LLC
232007Highlights and Accomplishments¥Record financial performance of 27% 
revenue growth and 40% earnings growth. 
¥Reached $1.2 trillion in assets under management and $1.6 trillion in assets
under supervision. Net assets under 

management inflows were at a record

level of $115 billion.
¥ JPMorgan Asset Management is the
largest manager of AAA-rated global 
liquidity funds with more than $294 
billion under management. Grew global
liquidity balances 29%.
(a)¥ Experienced record growth in assets 
under supervision for the Private Bank 
and Private Client Services with an
increase of $80 billion. Achieved second
consecutive year of record growth in 

net new Private Bank clients. 
¥Retained position as largest manager 
of hedge funds with assets under 
management of $45 billion.
(b)¥Grew alternative assets under manage-
ment, including hedge funds, real estate
and private equity 21% to $121 billion.
Continued to experience strong investor
interest in Highbridge funds with 68%

growth in assets under management. 
¥Despite challenging markets throughout
the second half of the year, maintainedstrong three- and five-year investment
performance. Globally, the ranking of
long-term mutual fund assets in the first or second quartiles was 76% for the
five years and 75% for the three years

ended December 31, 2007. One-year 

performance declined from 83% to 57%.
(c)¥Launched our first Qualified Domestic
Institutional Investor (QDII) product in
China, raising a record $15.4 billion on the
first day of IPO from 1.9 million clients.
(d)With assets under supervision of $1.6 trillion, Asset Management is aglobal leader in investment and wealth
management. Our clients include 
institutions, retail investors and high-
net-worth individuals in every major

market throughout the world. 
We offer global investment manage-
ment in equities, fixed income, real
estate, hedge funds, private equity
and liquidity. We provide trust and
estate and banking services to high-

net-worth clients and retirement 
services for corporations and individu-
als. The majority of our client assets

are in actively managed portfolios.
Asset Management
(a)iMoneyNet,December 2007
(b) Absolute Returnmagazine,March 2008 issue,
data as of year-end 2007
(c) Derived from following rating services:Lipper forthe United States and Taiwan;Micropal for theUnited Kingdom,Luxembourg and Hong Kong;
and Nomura for Japan
(d)In conjunction with our joint venture partner,
Shanghai International Trust and Investment Co.,
Ltd.(SITCO);quota of $4 billion
ÒLooking ahead, we see tremendous opportunity
to build upon the momentum in our business.
We will continue to expand our alternative 

asset class business, delivering innovative, 
best-in-class investment products to our clients.
Our industry-leading Private Bank will capitalize 

on its strength, while we increase our focus on

growth in Private Client Services. In Asia, we 

will broaden and deepen our reach, building 

on our unique leadership position in the region. 
ÒThrough our commitment to our values and our
dedication to outstanding investment perform-

ance, we will continue to deliver the best of

JPMorgan Asset Management to our clients."
Jes Staley Ð CEO Asset Management Global Reports LLC
242007Highlights and Accomplishments¥Established the Office of Corporate
Responsibility to develop a comprehen-
sive and identifiable platform driven by
our business activities.
¥ Strengthened our focus on the environ-ment by investing in alternative energy
projects, helping our clients reduce 
carbon emissions and taking the lead indeveloping The Carbon Principles.
¥ Began the renovation of our NYC head-
quarters with the goal of Platinum LEEDcertification and opened pilot LEED-certi-
fied bank branches in Colorado and Texas.
¥ Helped shape federal legislation to 
protect homeowners and to serve a
broader range of families through
expanded mortgage-loan limits.
¥ Helped consumers understand our 
productsÕterms and fees through 

programs such as ÒMortgage Nutrition

LabelsÓin Home Lending and ÒClear 
and SimpleÓin Card Services.
¥ Modified or refinanced $3 billion in sub-
prime adjustable-rate mortgages to keep

families in their homes. Shared expertise in
helping lead national initiatives to prevent

foreclosure (including HOPE NOW) and
trained more than 1,300 non-profit coun-
selors to assist struggling homeowners.
¥ Created a dedicated investment banking
unit to support microfinance and social
enterprises around the world.
¥ Invested $114 million in more than 2,400
not-for-profit organizations globally innearly 500 cities across 33 countries.
¥ Invested more than $338 billion in low-and
moderate-income communities across the

U.S. in the first four years of our 10-year, $800

billion commitment. Will invest the addition-

al $60 million allocation of New Markets Tax
Credit in low-income communities.
¥ Increased supplier diversity spending,
with more than $700 million going to

minority- and women-owned businesses.
At JPMorgan Chase, corporate
responsibility goes beyond
philanthropy. ItÕs about what
we do every day in our busi-
nesses and how we do it. We

are committed to managing

our businesses to create 

value for our consumer and

corporate clients, as well as 

our shareholders, communities

and employees and to being a

responsible corporate citizen.
Corporate Responsibility
ÒCorporate responsibility is
something that we all, as 

business leaders, ought to 

be thinking about every day.

We need to continually review

and ensure that we act in a

way that focuses on the impact

our businesses can and should
have. Taking this seriously is 

a winning strategy for our 

consumers and clients, our
company and the community.Ó
Bill Daley Ð Head of Corporate Responsibility
From left to right:
Thelma DyeÐ
Director of Northside Centerfor Child Development,Bill DaleyÐCorporate Responsibility,JPMorgan Chase,Kim DavisÐPhilanthropy, JPMorgan ChaseGlobal Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
25TABLE OF CONTENTS
Financial:26Five-year summary of consolidated financial highlights
26Five-year stock performance
Management™s discussion and analysis:
27Introduction

28Executive overview

31Consolidated results of operations

36Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s
use of non-GAAP financial measures38Business segment results

61Balance sheet analysis

63Capital management

66 OffŒbalance sheet arrangements and 
contractual cash obligations
69Risk management

70 Liquidity risk management

73Credit risk management

90Market risk management

94Private equity risk management

94Operational risk management

95Reputation and fiduciary risk management

96Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm

99Accounting and reporting developments

100Nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts 
at fair value
101Forward-looking statements
Audited financial statements:102Management™s report on internal control 
over financial reporting 103Report of independent registered public accounting firm

104Consolidated financial statements

108Notes to consolidated financial statements
Supplementary information:179Selected quarterly financial data

180Selected annual financial data

181Glossary of terms
Global Reports LLC
26JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Heritage(unaudited)JPMorgan(in millions,except per share,headcount and ratio data)
Chase only
As of or for the year ended December 31,2007200620052004
(c)2003Selected income statement dataTotal net revenue
$71,372
$61,999$54,248$42,736$33,191
Provision for credit losses6,8643,2703,4832,5441,540
Total noninterest expense
41,70338,84338,92634,33621,878
Income from continuing operations before income tax expense
22,80519,88611,8395,8569,773
Income tax expense7,4406,2373,5851,5963,209
Income from continuing operations
15,36513,6498,2544,2606,564
Income from discontinued operations
(a)Š795229206155
Net income$15,365
$14,444$8,483$4,466$6,719
Per common share
Basic earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
$4.51
$3.93$2.36$1.51$3.24
Net income4.514.162.431.593.32
Diluted earnings per shareIncome from continuing operations
$4.38
$3.82$2.32$1.48$3.17
Net income4.384.042.381.553.24
Cash dividends declared per share
1.481.361.361.361.36
Book value per share
36.5933.4530.7129.6122.10
Common shares outstanding
Average:Basic 
3,404#3,470#3,492#2,780#2,009#
Diluted 3,5083,5743,5572,8512,055
Common shares at period-end3,3673,4623,4873,5562,043
Share price
(b)High $53.25
$49.00$40.56$43.84$38.26
Low40.1537.8832.9234.6220.13
Close43.6548.3039.6939.0136.73
Market capitalization
146,986167,199138,387138,72775,025
Selected ratios
Return on common equity (ﬁROEﬂ):Income from continuing operations
13%12%8%6%15%
Net income13138616
Return on assets (ﬁROAﬂ):
Income from continuing operations
1.061.040.700.440.85
Net income1.061.100.720.460.87
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.48.78.58.78.5
Total capital ratio
12.612.312.012.211.8
Overhead ratio
5863728066
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)Total assets
$1,562,147$1,351,520$1,198,942$1,157,248$770,912
Loans519,374483,127419,148402,114214,766
Deposits740,728638,788554,991521,456326,492
Long-term debt183,862133,421108,35795,42248,014
Total stockholders™ equity
123,221115,790107,211105,65346,154
Headcount180,667
174,360168,847160,96896,367
(a)On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase & Co.completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses for the consumer,business b
anking and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York 
Company Inc.The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses are being reported as discontinued operations for eac
h of the periods presented.(b)JPMorgan Chase™s common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of JPMorgan
Chase™s common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
(c)On July 1,2004,Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase.Accordingly,2004 results include six months of the comb
ined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
FIVE-YEAR STOCK PERFORMANCE
050100150
200
250December 31,(in dollars)2002   20032004200520062007
S&P Financial
S&P 500JPMorgan ChaseThe following table and graph compare the five-year cumulative total
return for JPMorgan Chase & Co.(ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂor the ﬁFirmﬂ)

common stock with the cumulative return of the S&P 500 Stock Index
and the S&P Financial Index.The S&P 500 Index is a commonly refer-

enced U.S.equity benchmark consisting of leading companies from dif-

ferent economic sectors.The S&P Financial Index is an index of 92

financial companies,all of which are within the S&P 500.The Firm is a

component of both industry indices.
The following table and graph assumes simultaneous investments of
$100 on December 31,2002,in JPMorgan Chase 
common stock and ineach of the above S&P indices.
The comparison assumes that all divi-
dends are reinvested.December 31,(in dollars)20022003200420052006
2007JPMorgan Chase$100.00$160.29$176.27$186.39$234.10
$217.95
S&P Financial Index100.00131.03145.29154.74184.50
150.32S&P 500100.00128.68142.68149.69173.33
182.85Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
27Card Services
With 155 million cards in circulation and more than $157 billion inmanaged loans,Card Services (ﬁCSﬂ) is one of the nation™s largest

credit card issuers.Customers used Chase cards to meet more than

$354 billion worth of their spending needs in 2007.With hundreds of partnerships,Chase has a market leadership position

in building loyalty programs with many of the world™s most respected

brands.The Chase-branded product line was strengthened in 2007 with

enhancements to the popular Chase Freedom Program,which has gen-

erated more than one million new customers since its launch in 2006
.Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC,a joint venture between JPMorgan

Chase and First Data Corporation,is a processor of MasterCard and

Visa payments,which handled more than 19 billion transactions in

2007.Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking (ﬁCBﬂ) serves more than 30,000 clients nationally,
including corporations,municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-

profit entities with annual revenue generally ranging from $10 million

to $2 billion.Commercial 
Banking delivers extensive industry knowledge,
local expertiseand a dedicated service model.In partnership with the
Firm™s other businesses,it provides comprehensive solutions including

lending,treasury services,investment banking and asset management

to meet its clients™ domestic and international financial needs.
Treasury & Securities Services 

Treasury & Securities Services (ﬁTSSﬂ) is a global leader in transaction,

investment and information services.TSS is one of the world™s largest

cash management providers and a leading global custodian.Treasury

Services (ﬁTSﬂ) provides cash management,trade,wholesale card and

liquidity products and services to small and mid-sized companies,

multinational corporations,financial institutions and government enti-

ties.TS partners with the Commercial Banking,Retail Financial

Services and Asset Management businesses to serve clients firmwide.

As a result,certain TS revenue is included in other segments™ results.

Worldwide Securities Services (ﬁWSSﬂ) holds,values,clears and serv-

ices securities,cash and alternative investments for investors and bro-

ker-dealers,and manages depositary receipt programs globally.
Asset ManagementWith assets under supervision of $1.6 trillion,Asset Management
(ﬁAMﬂ) is a global leader in investment and wealth management.AM

clients include institutions,retail investors and high-net-worth individu-

als in every major market throughout the world.AM offers global

investment management in equities,fixed income,real estate,hedge

funds,private equity and liquidity,including both money market instru-

ments and bank deposits.AM also provides trust and estate and bank-

ing services to high-net-worth clients,and retirement services for cor-

porations and individuals.The majority of AM™s client assets are in

actively managed portfolios.
INTRODUCTIONJPMorgan Chase & Co.,a financial holding company incorporated

under Delaware law in 1968,is a leading global financial services firm

and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of
America (ﬁU.S.ﬂ),with $1.6 trillion in assets,$123.2 billion in stock-

holders™ equity and operations worldwide.The Firm is a leader in

investment banking,financial services for consumers and businesses,

financial transaction processing and asset management.Under the

JPMorgan and Chase brands,the Firm serves millions of customers in

the U.S.and many of the world™s most prominent corporate,institu-

tional and government clients.
JPMorgan Chase™s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase

Bank,National Association (ﬁJPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.ﬂ),a

national banking association with branches in 17 states;and Chase

Bank USA,National Association (ﬁChase Bank USA,N.A.ﬂ),a

national bank that is the Firm™s credit card issuing bank.JPMorgan

Chase™s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P.Morgan Securities Inc.,

the Firm™s U.S.primary investment banking firm.
JPMorgan Chase™s activities are organized,for management reporting

purposes,
into six business segments,as well as Corporate.The Firm™s
wholesale businesses comprise the Investment Bank,Commercial

Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management seg-

ments.The Firm™s consumer businesses comprise the Retail Financial

Services and Card Services segments.A description of the Firm™s busi-

ness segments,and the products and services they provide to their

respective client bases,follows.
Investment Bank JPMorgan is one of the world™s leading investment banks,with deep

client relationships and broad product capabilities.The Investment

Bank™s clients are corporations,financial institutions,governments and

institutional investors.The Firm offers a full range of investment bank-

ing products and services in all major capital markets,including advis-

ing on corporate strategy and structure,capital raising in equity and

debt markets,sophisticated risk management,market-making in cash

securities and derivative instruments and research.The Investment

Bank (ﬁIBﬂ) also commits the Firm™s own capital to proprietary invest-

ing and trading activities.
Retail Financial Services Retail Financial Services (ﬁRFSﬂ),which includes the Regional

Banking,Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance reporting segments,

serves consumers and businesses through bank branches,ATMs,

online banking and telephone banking.Customers can use more

than 3,100 bank branches (fourth-largest nationally),9,100 ATMs

(third-largest nationally) and 290 mortgage offices.More than

13,700 branch salespeople assist customers with checking and sav-

ings accounts,mortgages,home equity and business loans and

investments across the 17-state footprint from New York to Arizona.

Consumers also can obtain loans through more than 14,500 auto
dealerships and 5,200 schools and universities nationwide.
This section of the Annual Report provides management™s discussionand analysis (ﬁMD&Aﬂ) of the financial condition and results ofoperations of JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of terms on pages181Œ183 of definitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report.The MD&A included in this Annual Report contains statements thatare forward-looking within the meaning of the Private SecuritiesLitigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon thecurrent beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase™s managementand are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks anduncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase™s results to differ materiallyfrom those set forth insuch forward-looking statements. Certain of
such risks and uncertaintiesare described herein (see Forward-lookingstatements on page 101 of this Annual Report) and in the JPMorganChase Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,2007 (ﬁ2007 Form 10-Kﬂ), in Part I, Item 1A: Risk factors, to 
whichreference is hereby made.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Global Reports LLC
28JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Business overview  JPMorgan Chase reported record Net income and record Total net
revenue in 2007,exceeding the record levels achieved in 2006.Net

income in 2007 was $15.4 billion,or $4.38 per share,and Total net

revenue was $71.4 billion,compared with Net income of $14.4 bil-

lion,or $4.04 per share,and Total net revenue of $62.0 billion for

2006.The return on common equity was 13% in both years.

Reported results in 2006 included $795 million of income from dis-
continued operations related to the exchange of selected corporate

trust businesses for the consumer,business banking and middle-mar-

ket banking businesses of The Bank of New York.Income from con-

tinuing operations in 2006 was $13.6 billion,or $3.82 per share.For

a detailed discussion of the Firm™s consolidated results of operations,

see pages 31Œ35 of this Annual Report.
The Firm™s results over the past several years have benefited from

growth in the global economy and,most importantly,from the man-

agement team™s focus on driving organic revenue growth and improv-

ing operating margins by investing in each line of business,reducing

waste,efficiently using the Firm™s balance sheet and successfully com-

pleting the integration plan for the merger of Bank One Corporation

with and into JPMorgan Chase on July 1,2004 (ﬁthe Mergerﬂ).The

success in executing on this agenda in 2007 is reflected in the strong
organic growth experienced by all of our businesses including:record

levels of advisory fees,equity underwriting fees and equity markets

revenue;double-digit revenue growth in Retail Financial Services,

Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management;and improved

operating margins in most businesses.This improved performance was

driven by growth in key business metrics including:double-digit

growth in deposit and loan balances;127 new branches and 680 addi-
tional ATMs;15% growth in assets under custody;$115 billion of net

assets under management inflows;16 million new credit card accounts

with 1.4 million sold in branches;and nearly doubling real estate mort-

gage origination market share to 11% during the fourth quarter of

2007.At the same time the Firm increased loan loss reserve levels,and

maintained strong capital ratios and ample levels of liquidity as part of

its commitment to maintaining a strong balance sheet.During 2007,the Firm also continued to create a stronger infrastruc-

ture.The Firm successfully completed the in-sourcing of its credit card

processing platform,which will allow for faster introduction of new

and enhanced products and services.In addition,with the successful

completion of the systems conversion and rebranding for 339 former

Bank of New York branches and the conversion of the wholesale

deposit system (the last significant Merger event which affected

more than $180 billion in customer balances),the Firm™s consumer

and wholesale customers throughout the U.S.now have access to

over 3,100 branches and 9,100 ATMs in 17 states,all of which are

on common computer systems.With Merger integration activity com-

pleted by the end of 2007,the Firm fully realized its established

merger-related expense savings target of $3.0 billion.To achieve

these merger-related savings,the Firm expensed Merger costs of

$209 million during 2007,bringing the total cumulative amount

expensed since the Merger announcement to approximately $3.6 bil-

lion (including costs associated with the Bank of New York transac-

tion and capitalized costs).With the completion of all Merger inte-

gration activity,no further Merger costs will be incurred.
In 2007,the global economy continued to expand and inflation

remained well-contained despite ongoing price pressures on energy
and agricultural commodities.Developing economies maintained

strong momentum throughout the year,but the industrial economies

slowed in the second half of the year in response to weak housing
conditions,monetary tightening by several central banks,rising petro-

leum prices and tightening credit conditions.The U.S.housing market

for the first time in decades experienced a decline in average home

prices with some specific markets declining by double-digit percent-

ages.Despite the slowdown in the industrial economies,labor mar-

kets remained relatively healthy,supporting ongoing solid,though

slowing consumer spending.Substantial financial losses related to

U.S.subprime mortgage loans triggered a flight to quality in global

financial markets late in the summer.In addition,during the second

half of the year,pressures in interbank funding markets increased,

credit spreads widened significantly and credit was difficult to obtain

for some less creditworthy wholesale and consumer borrowers.

Central banks took a number of actions to counter pressures in fund-

ing markets,including reducing interest 
rates and suspending further
tightening actions.Capital markets activity
increased significantly in
the first half of 2007,but declined over the second half of the year

amid difficult mortgage and credit market conditions.Despite the

volatility in capital markets activity,U.S.and international equity mar-

kets performance was strong,with the U.S.stock market reaching an

all-time record in October;however,the stock market pulled back

from the record level by the end of the year.The S&P 500 and inter-

national indices were up,on average,approximately 8% during 2007.
The Firm™s improved performance in 2007 benefited both from the

investments made in each business and the overall global economic

environment.The continued overall expansion of the U.S.and global

economies,overall increased level of capital markets activity and pos-

itive performance in equity markets helped to drive new business vol-

ume and organic growth within each of the Firm™s businesses.These
EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW
This overview of management™s discussion and analysis highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important toreaders of this Annual Report. For a more complete understanding of events, trends and uncertainties, as well as the capital, liquidity, credit and marketrisks, and the Critical accounting estimates, affecting the Firm and its various lines of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety. Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
20072006Change 
Selected income statement dataTotal net revenue
$71,372
$61,99915%
Provision for credit losses6,8643,270110
Total noninterest expense
41,70338,8437
Income from continuing operations
15,36513,64913
Income from discontinued operations 
Š795NM
Net income15,365
14,4446
Diluted earnings per share
Income from continuing operations 
$4.38
$3.8215%
Net income 4.384.048
Return on common equity
Income from continuing operations 
13%12%Net income1313Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
29benefits were tempered by the capital markets environment in the
second half of the year and the continued weakness in the U.S.

housing market.The Investment Bank™s lower results were significantly
affectedby the uncertain and extremely volatile capital markets envi-
ronment,which resulted in significant markdowns on leveraged lend-

ing,subprime positions and securitized products.Retail Financial

Services reported lower earnings,reflecting an increase in the

Provision for credit losses and higher net charge-offs for the home
equity and subprime mortgage loan portfolios related to the weak
housing market.Card Services earnings also decreased driven by an

increased Provision for credit losses,reflecting a higher level of net

charge-offs.The other lines of business each posted improved results

versus 2006.Asset Management,Treasury & Securities Services and

Commercial Banking reported record revenue and earnings in 2007,
and Private Equity posted very strong results.
The discussion that follows highlights the performance of each busi-ness segment compared with the prior year, and discusses results on a managed basis unless otherwise noted. For more informationabout managed basis, see Explanation and reconciliation of theFirm™s use of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 36Œ37 of thisAnnual Report.Investment Banknet income decreased from the prior year,driven
by lower Total net revenue and a higher Provision for credit losses.The
decline in Total net revenue was driven by lower Fixed Income Markets

revenue due to markdowns on subprime positions,including subprime

collateralized debt obligations (ﬁCDOsﬂ);markdowns on leverage

lending funded loans and unfunded commitments;markdowns in

securitized products on nonsubprime mortgages and weak credit 
trading performance.Partially offsetting the decline in revenue were

strong investment banking fees,driven by record advisory and record

equity underwriting fees;record Equity Markets revenue,which bene-

fited from strong client activity and record trading results;and record

revenue in currencies and strong revenue in rates.The Provision for

credit losses rose due to an increase in the Allowance for credit losses,

primarily resulting from portfolio activity,
which included the effect ofthe weakening credit environment,and portfolio growth
.Retail Financial Servicesnet income declined compared with theprior year.Growth in Total net revenue was more than offset by a sig-

nificant increase in the Provision for credit losses and higher Total

noninterest expense.The increase in Total net revenue was due to

higher net mortgage servicing revenue;higher deposit-related fees;

the absence of prior-year losses related to mortgage loans transferred

to held-for-sale;wider spreads on loans;and higher deposit balances.

Revenue also benefited from the Bank of New York transaction and

the classification of certain mortgage loan origination costs as
expense due to the adoption of SFAS 159.The increase in the

Provision for credit losses was due primarily to an increase in the

Allowance for loan losses related to home equity loans and subprime

mortgage loans,as weak housing prices throughout the year resulted

in an increase in estimated losses for both categories of loans.

Total noninterest expense increased due to the Bank of New York

transaction,the classification of certain loan origination costs as

expense due to the adoption of SFAS 159 (ﬁFair Value Optionﬂ),

investments in the retail distribution network and higher mortgage
production and servicing expense.These increases were offset partially

by the sale of the insurance business.
Card Services
net income declined compared with the prior yeardue to an increase in the Provision for credit losses,partially offset by
Total net managed revenue growth and a reduction in Total noninter-

est expense.The growth in Total net managed revenue reflected a

higher level of fees,growth in average loan balances and increased

net interchange income.These benefits were offset partially by nar-

rower loan spreads,the discontinuation of certain billing practices

(including the elimination of certain over-limit fees and the two-cycle
billing method for calculating finance charges) and the effect of higherrevenue reversals associated with higher charge-offs.The Managed

provision for credit losses increased primarily due to a higher level of
net charge-offs (the prior year benefited from the change in bank-
ruptcy legislation in the fourth quarter of 2005) and an increase in
the allowance for loan losses driven by higher estimated net charge-

offs in the portfolio.Total noninterest expense declined from 2006,

primarily due to lower marketing expense and lower fraud-related

expense,partially offset by higher volume-related expense.
Commercial Banking
posted record net income as record Total net
revenue was offset partially by a higher Provision for credit losses.

Total net revenue reflected growth in liability balances and loans,

increased deposit-related fees and higher investment banking rev-

enue.These benefits were offset partially by a continued shift to nar-

rower-spread liability products and spread compression in the loan

and liability portfolios.The Provision for credit losses increased from

the prior year,reflecting portfolio activity,including slightly lower

credit quality,as well as growth in loan balances.Total noninterest

expense decreased slightly,as lower compensation expense was off-

set by higher volume-related expense related to the Bank of New
York transaction.
Treasury & Securities Services
generated record net income driv-
en by record Total net revenue,partially offset by higher Total nonin-
terest expense.Total net revenue benefited from increased product

usage by new and existing clients,market appreciation,wider spreads
in securities lending,growth in electronic volumes and higher liability

balances.
These benefits were offset partially by spread compression
and a shift to narrower-spread liability products.Total noninterest

expense increased due primarily to higher expense related to business
and volume growth,as well as investment in new product platforms.
Asset Managementproduced record net income,which benefited
from record Total net revenue,partially offset by higher Total nonin-

terest expense.Total net revenue grew as a result of increased assets

under management,higher performance and placement fees,and

higher deposit and loan balances.Total noninterest expense was up,

largely due to higher performance-based compensation expense and
investments in all business segments.
Corporate
net income increased from the prior year due primarily
to increased Total net revenue.Total net revenue growth was driven

by significantly higher Private Equity gains compared with the prior

year,reflecting a higher level of gains and the change in classifica-

tion of carried interest to compensation expense.Revenue also bene-

fited from a higher level of security gains and an improved net inter-
est spread.Total noninterest expense increased due primarily to

higher net litigation expense driven by credit card-related litigation
and higher compensation expense.
Global Reports LLC
Income from discontinued operations was $795 million in 2006,
which included a one-time gain of $622 million from the sale ofselected corporate trust businesses.Discontinued operations (included
in the Corporate segment results) included the income statement

activity of selected corporate trust businesses sold to The Bank of

New York in October 2006.
The Firm™s Managed provision for credit losses was $9.2 billion com-
pared with $5.5 billion in the prior year,reflecting increases in both
the wholesale and consumer provisions.The total consumer Managed
provision for credit losses was $8.3 billion,compared with $5.2 bil-

lion in the prior year.The higher provision primarily reflected increas-

es in the Allowance for credit losses largely related to home equity,

credit card and subprime mortgage loans and higher net charge-offs.

Consumer managed net charge-offs were $6.8 billion in 2007,com-

pared with $5.3 billion in 2006,resulting in managed net charge-off

rates of 1.97% and 1.60%,respectively.The wholesale Provision for

credit losses was $934 million,compared with $321 million in the

prior year.The increase was due primarily to a higher Allowance for

credit losses,resulting primarily from portfolio activity,
including theeffect of the weakening credit environment,and portfolio growth
.Wholesale net charge-offs were $72 million in 2007 (net charge-off
rate of 0.04%),compared with net recoveries of $22 million in 2006

(net recovery rate of 0.01%).In total,the Firm increased its

Allowance for credit losses in 2007 by $2.3 billion,bringing the bal-

ance of the allowance to $10.1 billion at December 31,2007.
The Firm had,at year end,Total stockholders™ equity of $123.2 bil-
lion and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.4%.The Firm purchased $8.2 bil-

lion,or 168 million shares,of its common stock during the year.
2008 Business outlookThe following forward-looking statements are based upon the cur-rent beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase™s management andare subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks anduncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase™s results to differ materi-ally from those set forth in such forward-looking statements.JPMorgan Chase™s outlook for 2008 should be viewed against the

backdrop of the global and U.S.economies (which currently are

extremely volatile),financial markets activity (including interest rate
movements),the geopolitical environment,the competitive environment

and client activity levels.Each of these linked factors will affect the 
per-formance of the Firm™s lines of business.The Firm currently anticipates

a lower level of growth globally and in the U.S.during 
2008 andincreased credit costs in all businesses.The slower the growth is
,or the
weaker the economic conditions are,compared with current forecasts,

the more the Firm™s financial results could be adversely affected.
The consumer Provision for credit losses could increase substantially as
a result of a higher level of losses in Retail Financial Services™ $94.8billion home equity loan portfolio and growth and increased losses inthe $15.5 billion retained subprime mortgage loan portfolio.Given

the potential stress on the consumer from continued downward pres-
sure on housing prices and the elevated inventory of unsold houses

nationally,management remains extremely cautious with respect to

the home equity and subprime mortgage portfolios.Economic data
released in early 2008,including continued declines in housing prices
and increasing unemployment,indicate that losses will likely continue
to rise in the home equity portfolio.In addition,the consumer provi-
sion could increase due to a higher level of net charge-offs in Card
Services.Based on management™s current economic outlook,home

equity losses for the first quarter of 2008 could be approximately

$450 million and net charge-offs could potentially double from this
level by the fourth quarter of 2008,and the net charge-off rate for

Card Services could potentially increase to approximately 4.50% of
managed loans in the first half of 2008 and to approximately 5.00%

by the end of 2008.Net charge-offs for home equity and card services
could be higher than management™s current expectations depending

on such factors as changes in housing prices,unemployment levels

and consumer behavior.The wholesale Provision for credit losses may

also increase over time as a result of loan growth,portfolio activity

and changes in underlying credit conditions.
The Investment Bank enters 2008 with the capital markets still being

affected by the disruption in the credit and mortgage markets,as well

as by overall lower levels of liquidity and wider credit spreads,all of

which could potentially lead to reduced levels of client activity,diffi-

culty in syndicating leveraged loans,lower investment banking fees

and lower trading revenue.While some leveraged finance loans were

sold during the fourth quarter of 2007,the Firm held $26.4 billion of

leveraged loans and unfunded commitments as held-for-sale as of

December 31,2007.Markdowns in excess of 6% have been taken on

the leveraged lending positions as 
of year-end 2007.These positions
are difficult to hedge effectively and as market conditions have con-
tinued to deteriorate in the first quarter of 2008,it is likely there will

be further markdowns on this asset class.In January 2008,the Firm

decided,based on its view of potential relative returns,to retain for

investment $4.9 billion of the leveraged lending portfolio that had

been previously held-for-sale.
The Investment Bank also held,at year
end,an aggregate $2.7 billion of subprime
CDOs and other subprime-related exposures which could also be negatively affected by market

conditions during 2008.While these positions are substantially

hedged (none of the hedges include insurance from monoline insur-

ance companies),there can be no assurance that the Firm will not

incur additional losses on these positions,as these markets are illiq-

uid and further writedowns may be necessary.Other exposures as of

December 31,2007 that have higher levels of risk given the current

market environment include CDO warehouse and trading positions of

$5.5 billion (over 90% corporate loans and bonds);Commercial

Mortgage-Backed 
Securities (ﬁCMBSﬂ) exposure of $15.5 billion;and
$6.4 billion of Alt-A
mortgage positions.
A weaker economy and lower equity markets in 2008 would also

adversely affect business volumes,assets under custody and assets

under management in Asset Management and Treasury & Securities

Services.Management continues to believe that the net loss in

Treasury and Other Corporate on a combined basis will be approxi-

mately $50 million to $100 million per quarter over time.Private

equity results,which are dependent upon the 
capital markets,could
continue to be volatile and may be significantly lower in 2008 than in2007.For the first quarter of 2008,private equity gains are expected

to be minimal.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
30JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
31The following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorganChase™s Consolidated results of operations on a reported basis forthe three-year period ended December 31, 2007. Factors that relateprimarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detailwithin that business segment than they are in this consolidated sec-tion. For a discussion of the Critical accounting estimates used bythe Firm that affect the Consolidated results of operations, see pages
96Œ98 of this Annual Report.RevenueYear ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Investment banking fees$6,635
$5,520$4,088
Principal transactions
9,01510,7788,072
Lending & deposit-related fees3,9383,4683,389
Asset management,administration 
and commissions14,35611,8559,988
Securities gains (losses)164(543)(1,336)
Mortgage fees and related income2,1185911,054
Credit card income6,9116,9136,754
Other income1,8292,1752,684
Noninterest revenue44,966
40,75734,693
Net interest income26,406
21,24219,555
Total net revenue$71,372
$61,999$54,248
2007 compared with 2006 
Total net revenue of $71.4 billion was up $9.4 billion,or 15%,from

the prior year.Higher Net interest income,very strong private equity

gains,record Asset management,administration and commissions

revenue,higher Mortgage fees and related income and record

Investment banking fees contributed to the revenue growth.These

increases were offset partially by lower trading revenue.
Investment banking fees grew in 2007 to a level higher than the pre-vious record set in 2006.Record advisory and equity underwriting

fees drove the results,partially offset by lower debt underwriting

fees.For a further discussion of Investment banking fees,which are

primarily recorded in IB,see the IB segment results on pages 40Œ42

of this Annual Report.
Principal transactions revenue consists of trading revenue and private
equity gains.Trading revenue declined significantly from the 2006
level,primarily due to markdowns in IB of $1.4 billion (net of hedges)
on subprime positions,including subprime CDOs,and $1.3 billion 

(net of fees) on leveraged lending funded loans and unfunded 

commitments.Also in IB,markdowns in securitized products on 

nonsubprime mortgages and weak credit trading performance more

than offset record revenue in currencies and strong revenue in both
rates and equities.Equities benefited from strong client activity and

record trading results across all products.IB™s Credit Portfolio results

increased compared with the prior year,primarily driven by higher 

revenue from risk management activities.The increase in private 
equity gains from 2006 reflected a significantly higher level of gains,the
classification of certain private equity carried interest as Compensation
expense and a fair value adjustment in the first quarter of 2007 on

nonpublic private equity investments resulting from the adoption of

SFAS 157 (ﬁFair Value Measurementsﬂ).For a further discussion of

Principal transactions revenue,see the IB and 
Corporate segment
results on pages 40Œ42 and 59Œ60,respectively,
and Note 6 on page122 of this Annual Report.
Lending & deposit-related fees rose from the 2006 level,driven pri-

marily by higher deposit-related fees and the Bank of New York

transaction.For a further discussion of Lending & deposit-related

fees,which are mostly recorded in RFS,TSS and CB,see the RFS 

segment results on pages 43Œ48,the TSS segment results on 

pages 54Œ55,and the CB segment results on pages 52Œ53 of 

this Annual Report.
Asset management,administration and commissions revenue

reached a level higher than the previous record set in 2006.
Increased assets under management and higher performance and
placement fees in AM drove the record results.The 18% growth in

assets under management from year-end 2006 came from net asset

inflows and market appreciation across all segments:Institutional,

Retail,Private Bank and Private Client Services.TSS also contributed

to the rise in Asset management,administration and commissions

revenue,driven by increased product usage by new and existing

clients and market appreciation on assets under custody.Finally,

commissions revenue increased,due mainly to higher brokerage

transaction volume (primarily included within Fixed Income and

Equity Markets revenue of IB),which more than offset the sale of the

insurance business by RFS in the third quarter of 2006 and a charge

in the first quarter of 2007 resulting from accelerated surrenders of

customer annuities.For additional information on these fees and

commissions,see the segment discussions for IB on pages 40Œ42,

RFS on pages 43Œ48,TSS on pages 54Œ55,and AM on pages

56Œ58,of this Annual Report.
The favorable variance resulting from Securities gains in 2007 

compared with Securities losses in 2006 was primarily driven by

improvements in the results of repositioning of the Treasury invest-

ment securities portfolio.
Also contributing to the positive variance
was a $234 million gain from the sale of MasterCard shares.For a fur-

ther discussion of Securities gains (losses),which are mostly recorded

in the Firm™s Treasury business,see the Corporate segment discussion

on pages 59Œ60 of this Annual Report.
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
32JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
2006 compared with 2005
Total net revenue for 2006 was $62.0 billion,up $7.8 billion,or

14%,from the prior year.The increase was due to higher Principal

transactions revenue,primarily from strong trading results,higher

Asset management,administration and commission revenue and

growth in Investment banking fees.Also contributing to the increase

was higher Net interest income and lower securities portfolio losses.

These improvements were offset partially by a decline in Other

income partly as a result of the gain recognized in 2005 on the sale
of BrownCo,the on-line deep discount brokerage business,and

lower Mortgage fees and related income.
The increase in Investment banking fees was driven by strong growth

in debt and equity underwriting,as well as advisory fees.For further

discussion of Investment banking fees,which are primarily recorded in

IB,see the IB segment results on pages 40Œ42 of this Annual Report.
Revenue from Principal transactions activities increased compared
with the prior year,partly driven by strong trading revenue results due

to improved performance in IB Equity and Fixed income markets,par-

tially offset by lower private equity gains.For a further discussion of

Principal transactions revenue,see the IB and Corporate segment

results on pages 40Œ42 and 59Œ60,respectively,and Note 6 on page

122 of this Annual Report.
Lending & deposit-related fees rose slightly in comparison with the
prior year as a result of higher fee income on deposit-related fees
and,in part,from the Bank of New York transaction.For a further

discussion of Lending & deposit-related fees,which are mostly

recorded in RFS,TSS and CB,see the RFS segment results on pages

43Œ48,the TSS segment results on pages 54Œ55,and the CB seg-

ment results on pages 52Œ53 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Asset management,administration and commissions

revenue in 2006 was driven by growth in assets under management

in AM,which exceeded $1 trillion at the end of 2006,higher equity-

related commissions in IB and higher performance and placement
fees.The growth in assets under management reflected new asset

inflows in the Institutional and Retail segments.
TSS also contributed
to the rise in Asset management,administration and commissions

revenue,driven by increased product usage by new and existing

clients and market appreciation on assets under custody.
In addition,commissions in the IB rose as a result of strength across regions,

partly offset by the sale of the insurance business and BrownCo.For

additional information on these fees and commissions,see the seg-

ment discussions for IB on pages 40Œ42,RFS on pages 43Œ48,TSS

on pages 54Œ55,and AM on pages 56Œ58,of this Annual Report.
The favorable variance in Securities gains (losses) was due primarily to
lower Securities losses in Treasury in 2006 from portfolio repositioning
Mortgage fees and related income increased from the prior year as
mortgage servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ) asset valuation adjustments and

growth in third-party mortgage loans serviced drove an increase in net
mortgage servicing revenue.Production revenue also grew,as an

increase in mortgage loan originations and the classification of certain
loan origination costs as expense (loan origination costs previously
netted against revenue commenced being recorded as an expense in
the first quarter of 2007 due to the adoption of SFAS 159) more than

offset markdowns on the mortgage warehouse and pipeline.For a dis-

cussion of Mortgage fees and related income,which is recorded pri-

marily in RFS™s Mortgage Banking business,see the Mortgage Banking

discussion on pages 46Œ47 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income remained relatively unchanged from the 2006
level,as lower servicing fees earned in connection with securitization

activities,which were affected unfavorably by higher net credit losses

and narrower loan margins,were offset by increases in net inter-

change income earned on the Firm™s credit and debit cards.For fur-

ther discussion of Credit card income,see CS™s segment results on

pages 49Œ51 of this Annual Report.
Other income declined compared with the prior year,driven by lower
gains from loan sales and workouts,and the absence of a $103 mil-

lion gain in the second quarter of 2006 related to the sale of
MasterCard shares in its initial public offering.(The 2007 gain on the

sale of MasterCard shares was recorded in Securities gains (losses)

as the shares were transferred to the available-for-sale (ﬁAFSﬂ) port-

folio subsequent to the IPO.) Increased income from automobile

operating leases and higher gains on the sale of leveraged leases

and education loans partially offset the decline.
Net interest income rose from the prior year,primarily due to the fol-
lowing:higher trading-related Net interest income,due to a shift of

Interest expense to Principal transactions revenue (related to certain

IB structured notes to which fair value accounting was elected in

connection with the adoption of SFAS 159);growth in liability and

deposit balances in the wholesale and consumer businesses;a higher

level of credit card loans;the impact of the Bank of New York trans-

action;and an improvement in Treasury™s net interest spread.These

benefits were offset partly by a shift to narrower-spread deposit and

liability products.The Firm™s total average interest-earning assets for

2007 were $1.1 trillion,up 12% from the prior year.The increase

was primarily driven by higher Trading assets Œ debt instruments,

Loans,and AFS securities,partially offset by a decline in Interests in

purchased receivables as a result of the restructuring and deconsoli-

dation during the second quarter of 2006 of certain multi-seller con-
duits that the Firm administered.The net interest yield on these

assets,on a fully taxable equivalent basis,was 2.39%,an increase of

23 basis points from the prior year,due in part to the adoption of

SFAS 159.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
33activities in connection with the management of the Firm™s assets and
liabilities.For a further discussion of Securities gains (losses),which

are mostly recorded in the Firm™s Treasury business,see the Corporate

segment discussion on pages 59Œ60 of this Annual Report.
Mortgage fees and related income declined in comparison with theprior year,reflecting a reduction in net mortgage servicing revenue

and higher losses on mortgage loans transferred to held-for-sale.

These declines were offset partly by growth in production revenue as

a result of a higher volume of loan sales and wider gain on sale mar-
gins.For a discussion of Mortgage fees and related income,which is

recorded primarily in RFS™s Mortgage Banking business,see the

Mortgage Banking discussion on pages 46Œ47 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income increased from the prior year,primarily from high-
er customer charge volume that favorably affected interchange

income and servicing fees earned in connection with securitization
activities,which benefited from lower credit losses incurred on securi-

tized credit card loans.These increases were offset partially by

increases in volume-driven payments to partners,expense related to

reward programs,and interest paid to investors in securitized loans.

Credit card income also was affected negatively by the deconsolida-

tion of Paymentech in the fourth quarter of 2005.
The decrease in Other income compared with the prior year was due
to a $1.3 billion pretax gain recognized in 2005 on the sale of
BrownCo and lower gains from loan workouts.Partially offsetting

these two items were higher automobile operating lease revenue;an

increase in equity investment income,in particular,from Chase

Paymentech Solutions,LLC;and a pretax gain of $103 million on the

sale of MasterCard shares in its initial public offering.Net interest income rose compared with the prior year due largely toimprovement in Treasury™s net interest spread and increases in whole-

sale liability balances,wholesale and consumer loans,AFS securities

and consumer deposits.Increases in consumer and wholesale loans

and deposits included the impact of the Bank of New York transac-

tion.These increases were offset partially by narrower spreads on

both trading-related assets and loans,a shift to narrower-spread

deposits products,RFS™s sale of the insurance business and the

absence of BrownCo in AM.The Firm™s total average interest-earning

assets in 2006 were $995.5 billion,up 11% from the prior year,pri-

marily as a result of an increase in loans and other liquid earning
assets,partially offset by a decline in Interests in purchased receiv-

ables as a result of the restructuring and deconsolidation during the
second quarter of 2006 of certain multi-seller conduits that the Firm
administered.The net yield on interest-earning assets,on a fully tax-

able-equivalent basis,was 2.16%,a decrease of four basis points

from the prior year.
Provision for credit losses 
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Provision for credit losses $6,864
$3,270$3,483
2007 compared with 2006 
The Provision for credit losses in 2007 rose $3.6 billion from the

prior year due to increases in both the consumer and wholesale pro-
visions.The increase in the consumer provision from the prior year

was largely due to an increase in estimated losses related to home

equity,credit card and subprime mortgage loans.Credit card net

charge-offs in 2006 benefited following the change in bankruptcy
legislation in the fourth quarter of 2005.The increase in the whole-

sale provision from the prior year primarily reflected an increase in
the Allowance for credit losses due to portfolio activity,
which includedthe effect of the weakening credit environment and portfolio growth
.For a more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the Allowance
for loan losses,see the segment discussions for RFS on pages 43Œ48,
CS on pages 49Œ51,IB on pages 40Œ42,CB on pages 52Œ53 and

Credit risk management on pages 73Œ89 of this Annual Report.
2006 compared with 2005
The Provision for credit losses in 2006 declined $213 million from the
prior yeardue to a $1.3 billion decrease in the consumer Provision forcredit losses,partly offset by a $1.1 billion increase in the wholesale

Provision for credit losses.The decrease in the consumer provision was

driven by CS,reflecting lower bankruptcy-related losses,partly offset

by higher contractual net charge-offs.The 2005 consumer provision

also reflected a $350 million special provision related to Hurricane
Katrina,a portion of which was released in 2006.The increase in the

wholesale provision was due primarily to portfolio activity,partly offset

by a decrease in nonperforming loans.The benefit in 2005 was due to

strong credit quality,reflected in significant reductions in criticized

exposure and nonperforming loans.Credit quality in the wholesale

portfolio was stable.
Noninterest expense
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Compensation expense$22,689
$21,191$18,065
Occupancy expense2,6082,3352,269
Technology,communications and
equipment expense3,7793,6533,602
Professional & outside services5,1404,4504,662
Marketing 
2,0702,2091,917
Other expense3,8143,2726,199
Amortization of intangibles1,3941,4281,490
Merger costs(a)209305722
Total noninterest expense$
41,703$38,843$38,926
(a)On July 1,2004,Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
34JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
2007 compared with 2006 
Total noninterest expense for 2007 was $41.7 billion,up $2.9 bil-

lion,or 7%,from the prior year.The increase was driven by higher

Compensation expense,as well as investments across the business

segments and acquisitions.
The increase in Compensation expense from 2006 was primarily the
result of investments and acquisitions in the businesses,including

additional headcount from the Bank of New York transaction;the

classification of certain private equity carried interest from Principal

transactions revenue;the classification of certain loan origination

costs (loan origination costs previously netted against revenue com-menced being recorded as an expense in the first quarter of 2007 due
to the adoption of SFAS 159
);and higher performance-based incen-
tives.Partially offsetting these increases were business divestitures

and continuing business efficiencies.
The increase in Occupancy expense from 2006 was driven by ongo-
ing investments in the businesses;in particular,the retail distribution

network and the Bank of New York transaction.
Technology,communications and equipment expense increased com-

pared with 2006,due primarily to higher depreciation expense on

owned automobiles subject to operating leases in the Auto Finance

business in RFS and technology investments to support business
growth.Continuing business efficiencies partially offset these increases.
Professional & outside services rose from the prior year,primarily

reflecting higher brokerage expense and credit card processing costs

resulting from growth in transaction volume.Investments in the

businesses and acquisitions also contributed to the increased
expense.
Marketing expense declined compared with 2006 due largely to

lower credit card marketing expense.
The increase in Other expense from the 2006 level was driven by

increased net legal-related costs reflecting a lower level of insurance

recoveries and higher expense,which included the cost of credit card-

related litigation.Also contributing to the increase were business

growth and investments in the businesses,offset partially by the sale

of the insurance business at the beginning of the third quarter of

2006,lower credit card fraud-related losses and continuing business

efficiencies.
For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs,

refer to Note 18 and Note 11 on pages 154Œ157 and 134,respec-

tively,of this Annual Report.
2006 compared with 2005
Total noninterest expense for 2006 was $38.8 billion,down slightly from
the prior year
.The decrease was due to material litigation-related insur-
ance recoveries of $512 million in 2006 compared with a net charge of
$2.6 billion (includes $208 million of material litigation-related insur-
ance recoveries) in 2005,primarily associated with the settlement of the

Enron Corp.and its subsidiaries (ﬁEnronﬂ) and WorldCom class action

litigations and for certain other material legal proceedings.Also con-
tributing to the decrease were lower Merger costs,the deconsolidation of

Paymentech,the sale of the insurance business,and merger-related sav-

ings and operating efficiencies.These items were offset mostly by higher

performance-based compensation and incremental expense of $712 mil-
lion related to the adoption of SFAS 123R,the impact of acquisitions and
investments in the businesses,
and higher marketing expenditures.
The increase in Compensation expense from 
the prior year
was primarily
a result of higher performance-based incentives,incremental expense

related to SFAS 123R of $712 million for 2006,and additional head-

count in connection with growth in business volume,acquisitions,and

investments in the businesses.These increases were offset partially by

merger-related savings and other expense efficiencies throughout the

Firm.For a detailed discussion of the adoption of SFAS 123R and

employee stock-based incentives,see Note 10 on pages 131Œ133 of this

Annual Report.The increase in Occupancy expense from 
the prior yearwas due to
ongoing investments in the retail distribution network,which included

the incremental expense from The Bank of New York branches,partially

offset by merger-related savings and other operating efficiencies.
The slight increase in Technology,communications and equipment
expense for 2006 was due primarily to higher depreciation expense on

owned automobiles subject to operating leases and higher technology

investments to support business growth,partially offset by merger-relat-

ed savings and continuing business efficiencies.
Professional & outside services decreased from the prior yeardue tomerger-related savings and continuing business efficiencies,lower legal

fees associated with several legal matters settled in 2005 and the

Paymentech deconsolidation.The decrease was offset partly by acquisi-

tions and investments in the businesses.
Marketing expense was higher compared with 
the prior year
,reflecting
the costs of credit card campaigns.
Other expense was lower due to significant litigation-related charges of
$2.8 billion in the prior year,associated with the settlement of the
Enron and WorldCom class action litigations and certain other material

legal proceedings.In addition,the Firm recognized insurance recoveries

of $512 million and $208 million,in 2006 and 2005,respectively,per-

taining to certain material litigation matters.For further discussion of liti-

gation,refer to Note 29 on pages 167Œ168 of this Annual Report.Also

contributing to the decline from the prior year
were charges of $93 mil-lion in connection with the termination of a client contract in TSS in

2005;and in RFS,the sale of the insurance business in the third quarter

of 2006.These items were offset partially by higher charges related to

other litigation,and the impact of growth in business volume,acquisi-

tions and investments in the businesses.
For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs,refer to
Note 18 and Note 11 on pages 154Œ157 and 134,respectively,of this

Annual Report.Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
35Income from discontinued operations 
As a result of the transaction with The Bank of New York on 
October 1,2006,the results of operations of the selected corporate
trust businesses (i.e.,trustee,paying agent,loan agency and document

management services) were reported as discontinued operations.
The Firm™s Income from discontinued operations was as follows for

each of the periods indicated.Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Income from discontinued operations
$Š$795$229
The increase in 2006 was due primarily to a gain of $622 million
from exiting selected corporate trust businesses in the fourth quarter

of 2006.Income tax expenseThe Firm™s Income from continuing operations before income tax

expense,Income tax expense and effective tax rate were as follows

for each of the periods indicated.Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except rate)
200720062005
Income from continuing 
operations
before income 
tax expense$22,805
$19,886$11,839
Income tax expense 
7,4406,2373,585
Effective tax rate
32.6%31.4%30.3%
2007 compared with 2006 
The increase in the effective tax rate for 2007,as compared with the

prior year,was primarily the result of higher reported pretax income

combined with changes in the proportion of income subject to feder-
al,state and local taxes.Also contributing to the increase in the

effective tax rate was the recognition in 2006 of $367 million of

benefits related to the resolution of tax audits.
For further discussion of income taxes,see Critical accounting esti-
mates and Note 26 on pages 96Œ98 and 164Œ165,respectively,of

this Annual Report.
2006 compared with 2005
The increase in the effective tax rate for 2006,as compared with
the prior year
,was primarily the result of higher reported pretax
income combined with changes in the proportion of income subject
to federal,state and local taxes.Also contributing to the increase in

the effective tax rate were the litigation charges in 2005 and lower

Merger costs,reflecting a tax benefit at a 38% marginal tax rate,

partially offset by benefits related to tax audit resolutions of $367
million in 2006.Global Reports LLC
(Table continues on next page)
20072006Year ended December 31,
FullyFully(in millions,except Reportedtax
-equivalent
ManagedReportedtax-equivalentManaged
per share and ratio data)resultsCredit card
(b)adjustmentsbasisresultsCredit card
(b)adjustmentsbasis
RevenueInvestment banking fees$6,635$Š$Š$6,635
$5,520$Š$Š$5,520
Principal transactions
9,015ŠŠ9,015
10,778ŠŠ10,778
Lending & deposit-related fees3,938ŠŠ3,938
3,468ŠŠ3,468
Asset management,administration
and commissions14,356ŠŠ14,356
11,855ŠŠ11,855
Securities gains (losses)164ŠŠ164
(543)ŠŠ(543)
Mortgage fees and related income2,118ŠŠ2,118
591ŠŠ591
Credit card income6,911(3,255)Š3,656
6,913(3,509)Š3,404
Other income1,829Š6832,512
2,175Š6762,851
Noninterest revenue44,966(3,255)68342,394
40,757(3,509)67637,924
Net interest income26,4065,63537732,418
21,2425,71922827,189
Total net revenue71,3722,3801,06074,812
61,9992,21090465,113
Provision for credit losses6,8642,380Š9,244
3,2702,210Š5,480
Noninterest expense41,703ŠŠ41,703
38,843ŠŠ38,843
Income from continuing operations 
before income tax expense
22,805Š1,06023,865
19,886Š90420,790
Income tax expense7,440Š1,0608,500
6,237Š9047,141
Income from continuing operations 
15,365ŠŠ15,365
13,649ŠŠ13,649
Income from discontinuedoperations 
ŠŠŠŠ
795ŠŠ795
Net income$15,365$Š$Š$15,365
$14,444$Š$Š$14,444
Income from continuing 
operations
Œ diluted earnings per share$4.38$Š$Š$4.38
$3.82$Š$Š$3.82
Returnon commonequity
(a)13%Š%Š%13%
12%Š%Š%12%
Return on common equity less goodwill(a)21ŠŠ21
20ŠŠ20
Return on assets(a)1.06NMNM1.01
1.04NMNM1.00
Overhead ratio
58NMNM56
63NMNM60
LoansŒPeriod-end
$519,374$72,701$Š$592,075
$483,127$66,950$Š$550,077
Total assets Œ average
1,455,04466,780Š1,521,824
1,313,79465,266Š1,379,060
(a)  Based on Income from continuing operations.
(b)The impact of credit card securitizations affects CS.See the segment discussion for CS on pages 49Œ51 of this Annual Report 
for further information.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
36JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm™s reported U.S.GAAP results to managed basis.
The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of

America (ﬁU.S.GAAPﬂ);these financial statements appear on pages
104Œ107of this Annual Report.That presentation,
which is referred
to as ﬁreported basis,ﬂprovi
des the r
eaderwith an 
understanding ofthe Firm™s results that can be tracked consistently from year to year

and enables a comparison of the Firm™s performance with other com-

panies™ U.S.GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the Firm™s results on a reported basis,man-
agement reviews the Firm™s and the lines™ of business results on a

ﬁmanagedﬂbasis,which is a non-GAAP financial measure.The Firm™s

definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S.GAAP

results and includes certain reclassifications that assume credit card
loans securitized by CS remain on the balance sheet and presentsrevenue on a fully taxable-equivalent (ﬁFTEﬂ) basis.These adjust-
ments do not have any impact on Net income as reported by the
lines of business or by the Firm as a whole.
The presentation of CS results on a managed basis assumes that
credit card loans that have been securitized and sold in accordance
with SFAS 140 still remain on the Consolidated balance sheets and

that the earnings on the securitized loans are classified in the same
manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on the
Consolidated balance sheets.JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of

managed basis to evaluate the 
credit performance and overall finan-
cial performance of the entire managed credit card portfolio.

Operations are funded and decisions are made about allocating

resources,such as employees and capital,based upon managed

financial information.In addition,the same underwriting standards
EXPLANATIONANDRECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM™S USE OF NON-GAAPFINANCIAL MEASURES
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
37Calculation of certain U.S.GAAP and non-GAAP metrics
The table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both the following
U.S.GAAP and non-GAAP measures:
Return on common equityNet income*/ Average common stockholders™ equity
Return on common equity less goodwill(a)Net income*/ Average common 
stockholders™ equity less goodwillReturn on assetsReportedNet income/ Total average assets

ManagedNet income / Total average managed assets
(b)(including average securitized credit card receivables)
Overhead ratio
Total noninterest expense / Total net revenue
* Represents Net income applicable to common stock(a) The Firm uses Return on common equity less goodwill,a non-GAAP financial measure,
to evaluate the operating performance of the Firm and to facilitate comparisons to 

competitors.
(b)The Firm uses Return on managed assets,a non-GAAP financial measure,to evaluate 
the overall performance of the managed credit card portfolio,including securitized credit

card loans.
and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both loans on theConsolidated balance sheets and securitized loans.Although securiti-
zations result in the sale of credit card receivables to a trust,

JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoing customer relationships,as the

customers may continue to use their credit cards;accordingly,the

customer™s credit performance will affect both the securitized loans

and the loans retained on the Consolidated balance sheets.
JPMorgan Chase believes managed basis information is useful to
investors,enabling them to understand both the credit risks associat-

ed with the loans reported on the Consolidated balance sheets and
the Firm™s retained interests in securitized loans.For a reconciliation

of reported to managed basis results for CS,see CS segment results

on pages 49Œ51of this Annual Report.For information regarding the
securitization process,and loans and residual interests sold and secu-

ritized,see Note 16 on pages 
139Œ145of this Annual Report.
Total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is

presented on an FTE basis.Accordingly,revenue from tax-exempt

securities and investments that receive tax credits is presented in the
managed results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and

investments.This non-GAAP financial measure allows management

to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and

tax-exempt sources.The corresponding income tax impact related to

these items is recorded within Income tax expense.
Management also uses certain other non-GAAP financial measuresat the business segment level because it believes these other non-
GAAP financial measures provide information to investors about the
underlying operational performance and trends of the particular busi-

ness segment and therefore facilitate a comparison of the business

segment with the performance of its competitors.
(Table continued from previous page)
2005FullyReportedtax-equivalentManaged
resultsCredit card
(b)adjustmentsbasis
$4,088$Š$Š$4,088
8,072ŠŠ8,072

3,389ŠŠ3,389
9,988ŠŠ9,988
(1,336)ŠŠ(1,336)
1,054ŠŠ1,054

6,754(2,718)Š4,036
2,684Š5713,255
34,693(2,718)57132,546
19,5556,49426926,318

54,2483,77684058,864
3,4833,776Š7,259
38,926ŠŠ38,926
11,839Š84012,679
3,585Š8404,425
8,254ŠŠ8,254
229ŠŠ229
$8,483$Š$Š$8,483
$2.32$Š$Š$2.32
8%Š%Š%8%
13ŠŠ13
0.70NMNM0.67
72NMNM66
$419,148$
70,527Š$489,675
1,185,06667,180Š     1,252,246
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
38JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis.The business seg-
ment financial results presented reflect the current organization of
JPMorgan Chase.There are six major reportable business segments:

the Investment Bank,Retail Financial Services,Card Services,

Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset
Management,as well as a Corporate segment.The business segments
are determined based upon the products and services provided,or the

type of customer served,and they reflect the manner in which finan-

cial information is currently evaluated by management.Results of

these lines of business are presented on a managed basis.
AssetManagementBusinesses:ŁTreasury Services
Worldwide
Securities ServicesJPMorgan Chase
Businesses:Middle Market
BankingMid-Corporate
BankingReal Estate
BankingChase 
BusinessCreditChase 
EquipmentLeasingChase 
CapitalCorporationCommercial
BankingBusinesses:Investment
Banking:- Advisory- Debt and equityunderwritingMarket-Making
and Trading:
- Fixed income 
- EquitiesCorporate LendingPrincipal Investing
Investment BankRetail FinancialServicesCard
ServicesBusinesses:Investment
Management:- Institutional
- RetailPrivate Bank

Private Client
ServicesBusinesses:Credit Card
Merchant
AcquiringBusinesses:Regional Banking:
- Consumer and
Business
Banking- Home equity 
lending- Education 
lendingMortgage
BankingAuto Finance
Treasury &
Securities ServicesDescription of business segment reporting methodology 
Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment
as if it were essentially a stand-alone business.
The management reporting process that derives business segment

results allocates income and expense using market-based method-

ologies.The Firm continues to assess the assumptions,methodolo-

gies and reporting classifications used for segment reporting,and

further refinements may be implemented in future periods.Business

segment reporting methodologies used by the Firm are discussed

below.
Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sell products and services to
the Firm™s clients,the participating business segments agree to share

revenue from those transactions.The segment results reflect these

revenue-sharing agreements.
Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest income and

expense to each business and transfer the primary interest rate risk

exposures to Treasury within the Corporate business segment.The

allocation process is unique to each business segment and considers
the interest rate risk,liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of
that segment™s stand-alone peers.This process is overseen by the
Firm™s Asset-Liability Committee (ﬁALCOﬂ).Business segments may

retain certain interest rate exposures,subject to management

approval,that would be expected in the normal operation of a simi-

lar peer business.
Capital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into considera-

tion stand-alone peer comparisons,economic risk measures and reg-

ulatory capital requirements.The amount of capital assigned to each

business is referred to as equity.Effective January 1,2006,the Firm

refined its methodology for allocating capital to the business seg-
ments.As the 2005 period was not revised to reflect the new capital

allocations,certain business metrics,such as ROE,are not compara-

ble to the presentations in 2007 and 2006.For a further discussion

of this change,see Capital managementŒLine of business equity on

page 63 of this Annual Report.
Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by support units
within the Firm,the costs of those support units are allocated to the

business segments.The expense is allocated based upon their actual

cost or the lower of actual cost or market,as well as upon usage of

the services provided.In contrast,certain other expense related to

certain corporate functions,or to certain technology and operations,
Global Reports LLC
Segment results Œ Managed basis
(a)The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated.
Year ended December 31,Total net revenueNoninterest expense
(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
200720062005
Investment Bank$18,170
$18,833$15,110
$13,074
$12,860$10,246
Retail Financial Services17,47914,82514,830
9,9008,9278,585
Card Services15,23514,74515,366
4,9145,0864,999
Commercial Banking4,1033,8003,488
1,9581,9791,856
Treasury & Securities Services
6,9456,1095,539
4,5804,2664,050
Asset Management8,6356,7875,664
5,5154,5783,860
Corporate
4,24514(1,133)
1,7621,1475,330
Total$74,812
$65,113$58,864
$41,703
$38,843$38,926
Year ended December 31,
Net income (loss)Return on equity 
(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
200720062005
Investment Bank$3,139
$3,674$3,673
15%18%18%
Retail Financial Services3,0353,2133,427
192226
Card Services2,9193,2061,907
212316
Commercial Banking1,1341,010951
171828
Treasury & Securities Services
1,3971,090863
474857
Asset Management1,9661,4091,216
514051
Corporate
(b)1,775842(3,554)
NMNMNM
Total $15,365
$14,444$8,483
13%13%8%
(a)Represents reported results on a tax-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.
(b)Net income included Income from discontinued operations of zero,$795 million and $229 million for 2007,2006 and 2005,respect
ively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
39are not allocated to the business segments and are retained inCorporate.Retained expense includes:parent company costs that

would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone businesses;adjustments to align certain corporate staff,technology and opera-
tions allocations with market prices;and other one-time items not

aligned with the business segments.
Global Reports LLC
The following table provides the IB™s Total net revenue by business 
segment.Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Revenue by business
Investment banking fees:Advisory$2,273
$1,659$1,263
Equity underwriting1,7131,178864
Debt underwriting
2,6302,7001,969
Total investment banking 
fees6,6165,5374,096
Fixed income markets
(a)(b)6,3398,7367,570
Equity markets
(a)(c)3,9033,4581,998
Credit portfolio(a)(d)1,3121,1021,446
Total net revenue$18,170
$18,833$15,110
(a)In 2007,as a result of adopting SFAS 157,Fixed income markets,Equity markets
and Credit portfolio had a benefit of $541 million,$346 million and $433 million,

respectively,from the widening of the Firm™s credit spread for liabilities carried at

fair value
.(b)Fixed income markets include client and portfolio management revenue related to

both market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets,

including foreign exchange,interest rate,credit and commodities markets.
(c)  Equities markets include client and portfolio management revenue related to mar-
ket-making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity products,including

cash instruments,derivatives and convertibles.
(d)  Credit portfolio revenue includes Net interest income,fees and loan sale activity,as
well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring,for the

IB™s credit portfolio.Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk man-

agement related to the Firm™s lending and derivative activities,and changes in the

credit valuation adjustment,which is the component of the fair value of a deriva-

tive that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty.See pages 80Œ82of the

Credit risk management section of this Annual Report for further discussion.
40JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
2007 compared with 2006 
Net income was $3.1 billion,a decrease of $535 million,or 15%,from
the prior year.The decrease reflected lower fixed income revenue,a high-

er provision for credit losses and increased noninterest expense,partially

offset by record investment banking fees and equity markets revenue.
Total net revenue was $18.2 billion,down $663 million,or 4%,from the
prior year.Investment banking fees were $6.6 billion,up 19% from the

prior year,driven by record fees across advisory and equity underwriting,

partially offset by lower debt underwriting fees.Advisory fees were $2.3

billion,up 37%,and equity underwriting fees were $1.7 billion,up 45%;

both were driven by record performance across all regions.Debt under-
writing fees of $2.6 billion declined 3%,reflecting lower loan syndication
and bond underwriting fees,which were negatively affected by market

conditions in the second half of the year.Fixed Income Markets revenue

decreased 27% from the prior year.The decrease was due to markdowns

of $1.4 billion (net of hedges) on subprime positions,including subprime

CDOs and markdowns of $1.3 billion (net of fees) on leverage lending

funded loans and unfunded commitments.Fixed Income Markets rev-

enue also decreased due to markdowns in securitized products on non-
subprime mortgages and weak credit trading performance.These lower

results were offset partially by record revenue in currencies and strong
revenue in rates.Equity Markets revenue was $3.9 billion,up 13%,ben-

efiting from strong client activity and record trading results across all
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
INVESTMENT BANKJPMorgan is one of the world™s leading investment
banks,with deep client relationships and broad 

product capabilities.The Investment Bank™s clients 

are corporations,financial institutions,governments

and institutional investors.The Firm offers a full

range of investment banking products and services 

in all major capital markets,including advising on

corporate strategy and structure,capital raising 

in equity and debt markets,sophisticated risk 

management,market-making in cash securities and

derivative instruments and research.The IB also 

commits the Firm™s own capital to proprietary 

investing and trading activities.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
RevenueInvestment banking fees$6,616
$5,537$4,096
Principal transactions
(a)4,4099,5126,459
Lending & deposit-related fees446517594
Asset management,administration 
and commissions2,7012,2401,824
All other income(b)(78)528534
Noninterest revenue14,094
18,33413,507
Net interest income
(c)4,0764991,603
Total net revenue
(d)18,17018,83315,110
Provision for credit losses654191(838)
Credit reimbursement from TSS
(e)121121154
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense7,9658,1905,792
Noncompensation expense5,1094,6704,454
Total noninterest expense13,074
12,86010,246
Income before income tax 
expense4,563
5,9035,856
Income tax expense 1,4242,2292,183
Net income$3,139
$3,674$3,673
Financial ratios
ROE15%18%18%
ROA0.450.570.61
Overhead ratio
726868
Compensation expense as% of total net revenue(f)444138
(a)In 2007,as a result of adopting SFAS 157,IB recognized a benefit of $1.3 billion in
Principal transactions revenue from the widening of the Firm™s credit spread for liabilities

carried at fair value.
(b)All other income for 2007 decreased from the prior year due mainly to losses on loan
sales and lower gains on sales of assets.
(c)Net interest income for 2007 increased from the prior year due primarily to an increase
in interest earnings assets
.The decline in net interest income in 2006 is largely driven by
a decline in trading-related net interest income caused by a higher proportion of nonin-

terest-bearing net trading assets to total net trading assets,higher funding costs com-

pared with the prior year,and spread compression due to the inverted yield curve in

place for most of 2006.(d)Total Net revenue includes tax-equivalent adjustments,primarily due to tax-exempt
income from municipal bond investments and income tax credits related to affordable
housing investments,of $927 million,$802 million and $752 million for 2007,2006

and 2005,respectively.
(e)TSS was charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed with-
in the IB credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.
(f)For 2006,the Compensation expense to Total net revenue ratio is adjusted to present
this ratio as if SFAS 123R had always been in effect.IB management believes that

adjusting the Compensation expense to Total net revenue ratio for the incremental

impact of adopting SFAS 123R provides a more meaningful measure of IB™s

Compensation expense to Total net revenue ratio.
Global Reports LLC
products.Credit Portfolio revenue was 
$1.3 billion,up 19%,primarily due
to higher revenue from risk management
activities,partially offset by lower
gains from loan sales and workouts.
The Provision for credit losses was $654 million,an increase of $463 millio
nfrom the prior year.The change was due to a net increase of $532 million
in the Allowance for credit losses,primarily due to portfolio activity,
which included the effect of the weakening credit environment,and an

increase in allowance for unfunded leveraged lending commitments,as

well as portfolio growth.In addition,there were $36 million of net

charge-offs in the current year,compared with $31 million of net recov-

eries in the prior year.The Allowance for loan losses to average loans

was 2.14% for 2007,compared with a ratio of 1.79% in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $13.1 billion,up $214 million,or 2%,from the
prior year.
Return on equity was 15% on $21.0 billion of allocated capital compared
with 18% on $20.8 billion in 2006.2006 compared with 2005
Net income of $3.7 billion was flat,as record revenue of $18.8 billion

was 
offset largely by higher compensation expense,including the
impact of SFAS 123R,and Provision for credit losses compared with

a benefit in the prior year.Total net revenue of $18.8 billion was up $3.7 billion,or 25%,from

the prior year.Investment banking fees of $5.5 billion were a record,

up 35% from the prior year,driven by record debt and equity under-

writing as well as strong advisory fees,which were the highest since

2000.Advisory fees of $1.7 billion were up 31% over the prior year

driven primarily by strong performance in the Americas.Debt under-

writing fees of $2.7 billion were up 37% from the prior year driven
by record performance in both loan syndications and bond underwrit-
ing.Equity underwriting fees of $1.2 billion were up 36% from the

prior year driven by global equity markets.Fixed Income Markets rev-

enue of $8.7 billion was also a record,up 15% from the prior year

driven by strength in credit markets,emerging markets and currencies.

Record Equity Markets revenue of $3.5 billion increased 73%,and

was driven by strength in cash equities and equity derivatives.Credit

Portfolio revenue of $1.1 billion was down 24%,primarily reflecting

lower gains from loan workouts.
Provision for credit losses was $191 million compared with a benefit of

$838 million in the prior year.The 2006 provision reflects portfolio

activity;credit quality remained stable.The prior-year benefit reflected
strong credit quality,
a decline in criticized and nonperforming loans anda higher level of recoveries.
Total noninterest expense of $12.9 billion was up $2.6 billion,or

26%,from the prior year.This increase was due primarily to higher

performance-based compensation,including the impact of an

increase in the ratio of compensation expense to total net revenue,as

well as the incremental expense related to SFAS 123R.
Return on equity was 18% on $20.8 billion of allocated capital com-
pared with 18% on $20.0 billion in 2005.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
41Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount)
200720062005
Revenue by region
Americas$8,165
$9,601$8,462
Europe/Middle East/Africa7,3017,4214,871
Asia/Pacific
2,7041,8111,777
Total net revenue$18,170
$18,833$15,110
Selected average balances
Total assets
$700,565
$647,569$599,761
Trading assetsŒdebt and 
equity instruments(a)359,775275,077231,303
Trading assetsŒderivative 
receivables
63,19854,54155,239
Loans:Loans retained(b)62,24758,84644,813
Loans held-for-sale and loans
at fair value
(a)17,72321,74511,755
Total loans79,970
80,59156,568
Adjusted assets(c)611,749527,753456,920
Equity21,00020,75320,000
Headcount25,543#
23,729#19,802#
(a)As a result of the adoption of SFAS 159 in the first quarter of 2007,$11.7 billion 
of loans were reclassified to trading assets.Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair 

value were excluded when calculating the allowance coverage ratio and net 

charge-off (recovery) rate.
(b)Loans retained included credit portfolio loans,leveraged leases and other accrual
loans,and excluded loans at fair value.
(c)Adjusted assets,a non-GAAP financial measure,equals Total assets minus 
(1) Securities purchased under resale agreements and Securities borrowed less
Securities sold,not yet purchased;(2) assets of variable interest entities (ﬁVIEsﬂ)

consolidated under FIN 46R;(3) cash and securities segregated and on deposit 

for regulatory and other purposes;and (4) goodwill and intangibles.The amount 

of adjusted assets is presented to assist the reader in comparing IB™s asset and 

capital levels to other investment banks in the securities industry.Asset-to-equity

leverage ratios are commonly used as one measure to assess a company™s capital

adequacy.IB believes an adjusted asset amount that excludes the assets discussed

above,which were considered to have a low risk profile,provide a more 

meaningful measure of balance sheet leverage in the securities industry.
Global Reports LLC
Market shares and rankings
(a)200720062005
Market MarketMarket
December 31,ShareRankingsShareRankingsShareRan
kingsGlobal debt,equity 
and equity-related7%#2
7%#27%#2
Global syndicated loans131
141151
Global long-term debt726364
Global equity and equity-related927676
Global announced M&A244
264233
U.S.debt,equity and 
equity-related102
9283
U.S.syndicated loans
241
261281
U.S.long-term debt
122
122112
U.S.equity and 
equity-related(b)115
8696
U.S.announced M&A
254
293263
(a) Source:Thomson Financial Securities data.Global announced M&A is based upon
rank value;all other rankings are based upon proceeds,with full credit to each 

book manager/equal if joint.Because of joint assignments,market share of all 

participants will add up to more than 100%;Global and U.S.announced M&A 

market share and ranking for 2006 include transactions withdrawn since 

December 31,2006.
(b) References U.S domiciled equity and equity-related transactions,per Thomson
Financial.According to Thomson Financial,in 2007,the Firm maintained its #2
position in Global Debt,Equity and Equity-related,its #1 position in

Global Syndicated Loans and its #4 position in Global Announced

M&A.The Firm improved its position to #2 in Global Equity &

Equity-related transactions and Global Long-term Debt.
According to Dealogic,the Firm was ranked #1 in Investment
Banking fees generated during 2007,based upon revenue.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
42JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratio data)
200720062005
Credit data and quality 
statisticsNet charge-offs (recoveries)$36
$(31)$(126)
Nonperforming assets:(a)Nonperforming loans353231594
Other nonperforming assets1003851
Allowance for credit losses:
Allowance for loan losses
1,3291,052907
Allowance for lending-related 
commitments560305226
Total Allowance for credit 
losses1,8891,3571,133
Net charge-off (recovery) rate
(b)(c)0.06%(0.05)%(0.28)%
Allowance for loan losses to 
average loans
(b)(c)2.14(e)1.792.02
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans(a)431461187
Nonperforming loans to average 
loans0.440.291.05
Market riskŒaverage trading 
andcredit portfolioVAR
(d)Trading activities:
Fixed income$80
$56$67
Foreign exchange
232223
Equities483134
Commodities and other334521
Less:portfolio diversification
(77)(70)(59)
Total trading VAR107
8486
Credit portfolio VAR
171514
Less:portfolio diversification
(18)(11)(12)
Total trading and credit 
portfolio VAR
$106
$88$88
(a)Nonperforming loans included loans held-for-sale of $45 million,$3 million and 
$109 million at December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,respectively,which were

excluded from the allowance coverage ratios.Nonperforming loans excluded dis-

tressed loans held-for-sale that were purchased as part of IB™s proprietary activities.
(b)As a result of the adoption of SFAS 159 in the first quarter of 2007,$11.7 billion 

of loans were reclassified to trading assets.Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair 

value were excluded when calculating the allowance coverage ratio and net 

charge-off (recovery) rate.
(c)Loans retained included credit portfolio loans,leveraged leases and other accrual
loans,and excluded loans at fair value.
(d)For a more complete description of VAR,see page 91 of this Annual Report.

(e)The allowance for loan losses to period-end loans was 1.92% at December 31,2007.
Global Reports LLC
RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES
Retail Financial Services,which includes the Regional
Banking,Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance reporting

segments,serves consumers and businesses through

bank branches,ATMs,online banking and telephone

banking.Customers can use more than 3,100 bank

branches (fourth-largest nationally),9,100 ATMs (third-

largest 
nationally) and 290 mortgage offices.More than
13,700 branch 
salespeople assist customers with check-
ing and savings accounts,mortgages,home equity and
business loans and investments across the 17-state

footprint from New York to Arizona.Consumers also

can obtain loans through more than 14,500 auto deal-

erships and 
5,200 schools and universities nationwide.
During the first quarter of 2006,RFS completed the purchase of

Collegiate Funding Services,which contributed an education loan

servicing capability and provided an entry into the Federal Family

Education Loan Program consolidation market.On July 1,2006,RFS

sold its life insurance and annuity underwriting businesses to

Protective Life Corporation.On October 1,2006,JPMorgan 
Chasecompleted the Bank of New York transaction,significantly strengthen-

ingRFS™s distribution network in the New York tri-state area.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
RevenueLending & deposit-related fees$1,881
$1,597$1,452
Asset management,administration 
and commissions1,2751,4221,498
Securities gains (losses)1(57)9
Mortgage fees and related income(a)2,0946181,104
Credit card income646523426
Other income906557136
Noninterest revenue6,803
4,6604,625
Net interest income10,676
10,16510,205
Total net revenue17,479
14,82514,830
Provision for credit losses2,610561724
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense(a)4,3693,6573,337
Noncompensation expense(a)5,0664,8064,748
Amortization of intangibles465464500
Total noninterest expense9,900
8,9278,585
Income before income tax
expense4,969
5,3375,521
Income tax expense 
1,9342,1242,094
Net income$3,035
$3,213$3,427
Financial ratios
ROE19%22%26%
Overhead ratio
(a)576058
Overhead ratio excluding core 
deposit intangibles(a)(b)545755
(a)The Firm adopted SFAS 159 in the first quarter of 2007.As a result,certain loan-orig-
ination costs have been classified as expense (previously netted against revenue) for
the year ended December 31,2007.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
43(b)Retail Financial Services uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization of core
deposit intangibles (ﬁCDIﬂ)),a non-GAAP financial measure,to evaluate the underly-

ing expense trends of the business.Including CDI amortization expense in the over-

head ratio calculation results in a higher overhead ratio in the earlier years and a

lower overhead ratio in later years;this method would result in an improving over-

head ratio over time,all things remaining equal.This non-GAAP ratio excludes

Regional Banking™s core deposit intangible amortization expense related to The Bank

of New York transaction and the Bank One merger of $460 million,$458 million and

$496 million for the years ended December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,respectively.
2007 compared with 2006
Net income was $3.0 billion,a decrease of $178 million,or 6%,from
the prior year,as declines in Regional Banking and Auto Finance were

offset partially by improved results in Mortgage Banking.Total net revenue was $17.5 billion,an increase of $2.7 billion,or

18%,from the prior year.Net interest income was $10.7 billion,up

$511 million,or 5%,due to the Bank of New York transaction,wider

loan spreads and higher deposit balances.These benefits were offset

partially by the sale of the insurance business and a shift to

narrowerŒspread deposit products.Noninterest revenue was $6.8 bil-

lion,up $2.1 billion,benefiting from valuation adjustments to the MSR

asset;an increase in deposit-related fees;the absence of a prior-year

$233 million loss related to $13.3 billion of mortgage loans transferred

to held-for-sale;and increased mortgage loan servicing revenue.

Noninterest revenue also benefited from the classification of certain

mortgage loan origination costs as expense (loan origination costs pre-
viously netted against revenue commenced being recorded as an

expense in the first quarter of 2007 due to the adoption of SFAS 159).
The Provision for credit losses was $2.6 billion,compared with $561

million in the prior year.The current-year provision includes a net

increase of $1.0 billion in the Allowance for loan losses related to

home equity loans as continued weak housing prices have resulted in
an increase in estimated losses for high loan-to-value loans.Home

equity net charge-offs were $564 million (0.62% net charge-off rate),

compared with $143 million (0.18% net charge-off rate) in the prior

year.In addition,the current-year provision includes a $166 million

increase in the allowance for loan losses related to subprime mort-

gage loans,reflecting an increase in estimated losses and growth in

the portfolio.Subprime mortgage net charge-offs were $157 million

(1.55% net charge-off rate),compared with $47 million (0.34% net

charge-off rate) in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $9.9 billion,an increase of $973 million,or
11%,from the prior year due to the Bank of New York transaction;

the classification of certain loan origination costs as expense due to
the adoption of SFAS 159;investments in the retail distribution net-

work;and higher mortgage production and servicing expense.These

increases were offset partially by the sale of the insurance business.
2006 compared with 2005
Net income of $3.2 billion was down $214 million,or 6%,from the

prior year.A decline in Mortgage Banking was offset partially by

improved results in Regional Banking and Auto Finance.
Total net revenue of $14.8 billion was flat compared with the prior

year.Net interest income of $10.2 billion was down slightly due to nar-

rower spreads on loans and deposits in Regional Banking,lower auto
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
44JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
loan and lease balances and the sale of the insurance business.These
declines were offset by the benefit of higher deposit and loan balancesin Regional Banking,wider loan spreads in Auto Finance and the Bank

of New York transaction.Noninterest revenue of $4.7 billion was up

$35 million,or 1%,from the prior year.Results benefited from increases

in deposit-related and branch production fees,higher automobile oper-

ating lease revenue and the Bank of New York transaction.This benefit

was offset by lower net mortgage servicing revenue,the sale 

of the insurance business and losses related to loans transferred to

held-for-sale.In 2006,losses of $233 million,compared with losses of

$120 million in 2005,were recognized in Regional Banking related to

mortgage loans transferred to held-for-sale;and losses of $50 million,

compared with losses of $136 million in the prior year,were recognized

in Auto Finance related to automobile loans transferred to held-for-sale.
The Provision for credit losses of $561 million was down $163 million

from the prior-year provision due to the absence of a $250 million 
spe-cial provision for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina in the prior
year,partially offset by the establishment of additional allowance for

loan losses related to loans acquired from The Bank of New York.
Total noninterest expense of $8.9 billion was up $342 million,or 4%,

primarily due to the Bank of New York transaction,the acquisition of

Collegiate Funding Services,investments in the retail distribution net-

work and higher depreciation expense on owned automobiles subject
to operating leases.These increases were offset partially by the sale

of the insurance business and merger-related and other operating

efficiencies and the absence of a $40 million prior-year charge related

to the dissolution of an education loan joint venture.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount 
and ratios)
200720062005
Selected ending balancesAssets$225,908
$237,887$224,801
Loans:Loans retained181,016180,760180,701
Loans held-for-sale and loans 
at fair value
(a)16,54132,74416,598
Total Loans
197,557213,504197,299
Deposits221,129214,081191,415
Selected average balances
Assets$217,564
$231,566$226,368
Loans:Loans retained168,166187,753182,478
Loans held-for-sale and loans
at fair value
(a)22,58716,12915,675
Total Loans
190,753203,882198,153
Deposits218,062201,127186,811
Equity16,00014,62913,383
Headcount69,465#
65,570#60,998#
Credit data and quality 
statisticsNet charge-offs$1,327
$576$572
Nonperforming loans(b)(c)2,7041,6771,338
Nonperforming assets(b)(c)3,1901,9021,518
Allowance for loan losses
2,6341,3921,363
Net charge-off rate
(d)0.79%0.31%0.31%
Allowance for loan losses to  
ending loans(d)1.460.770.75
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans(d)10089104
Nonperforming loans to total loans
1.370.790.68
(a)Loans included prime mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell,which,for
new originations on or after January 1,2007,were accounted for at fair value under

SFAS 159.These loans,classified as Trading assets on the Consolidated balance

sheets,totaled $12.6 billion at December 31,2007.Average Loans included prime

mortgage loans,classified as Trading assets on the Consolidated balance sheets,of

$11.9 billion for the year ended December 31,2007.
(b)Nonperforming loans included Loans held-for-sale and Loans accounted for at fair
value under SFAS 159 of $69 million,$116 million and $27 million at December 31,

2007,2006 and 2005,respectively.Certain of these loans are classified as Trading

assets on the Consolidated balance sheet.(c) Nonperforming loans and assets excluded (1) loans eligible for repurchase as well asloans repurchased from Governmental National Mortgage Association (ﬁGNMAﬂ) pools

that are insured by U.S.government agencies of $1.5 billion,$1.2 billion and $1.1 bil-

lion at December 31,2007
,2006 and 2005
,respectively,and (2) education loans that
are 90 days past due and still accruing,which are insured by U.S.government agencies

under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $279 million and $219 million at

December 31,2007
and 2006,respectively.The education loans past due 90 days were
insignificant at December 31,2005.These amounts for GNMA and education loans

were excluded,as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(d)Loans held-for-sale and Loans accounted for at fair value under SFAS 159 were
excluded when calculating the allowance coverage ratio and the Net charge-off rate.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
45tional Allowance for loan losses related to the acquisition of loans from
The Bank of New York and increased net charge-offs due to portfolio sea-

soning and deterioration in subprime mortgages.Noninterest 
expense of$6.8 billion was up $150 million,or 2%,from the prior year.The increase

was due to investments in the retail distribution network,
the Bank of NewYork transaction and the acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services,par-

tially offset by the sale of the insurance business,merger savings and

operating efficiencies,and the absence of a $40 million prior-year charge

related to the dissolution of an education loan joint venture.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios and 
where otherwise noted)200720062005
Business metrics (in billions)Selected ending balances
Home equity origination volume
$48.3
$51.9$54.1
End-of-period loans owned
Home equity$94.8
$85.7$73.9
Mortgage(a)15.730.144.6
Business banking15.414.112.8
Education11.010.33.0
Other loans(b)2.32.72.6
Total end-of-period loans 139.2
142.9136.9
End-of-period deposits
Checking $67.0
$68.7$64.9
Savings 96.092.487.7
Time and other 
48.743.329.7
Total end-of-period deposits 211.7
204.4182.3
Average loans owned
Home equity$90.4
$78.3$69.9
Mortgage(a)10.345.145.4
Business banking14.713.212.6
Education10.58.32.8
Other loans(b)2.52.63.1
Total average loans
(c)128.4147.5133.8
Average deposits

Checking $66.0
$62.8$61.7
Savings 97.189.987.5
Time and other 
43.837.526.1
Total average deposits206.9
190.2175.3
Average assets
140.4160.8150.8
Average equity
11.810.59.1
Credit data and quality statistics
30+ day delinquency rate
(d)(e)3.03%2.02%1.68%
Net charge-offsHome equity $564
$143$141
Mortgage 1595625
Business banking 12691101
Other loans1164828
Total net charge-offs965
338295
Net charge-off rate
Home equity 0.62%0.18%0.20%
Mortgage(f)1.520.120.06
Business banking0.860.690.80
Other loans1.260.590.93
Total net charge-off rate
(c)(f)0.770.230.23
Nonperforming assets(g)$2,879
$1,714$1,282
(a)As of January 1,2007,$19.4 billion of held-for-investment prime mortgage loans
were transferred from RFS to Treasury within the Corporate segment for risk man-
Regional BankingSelected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
Noninterest revenue$3,723
$3,204$3,138
Net interest income9,2838,7688,531
Total net revenue13,006
11,97211,669
Provision for credit losses2,216354512
Noninterest expense7,0236,8256,675
Income before income tax 
expense3,7674,7934,482
Net income$2,301
$2,884$2,780
ROE20%27%31%
Overhead ratio
545757
Overhead ratio excluding core 
deposit intangibles(a)505353
(a)Regional Banking uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization of CDI),a non-
GAAP financial measure,to evaluate the underlying expense trends of the business.

Including CDI amortization expense in the overhead ratio calculation results in a high-

er overhead ratio in the earlier years and a lower overhead ratio in later years;this

method would result in an improving overhead ratio over time,all things remaining

equal.This non-GAAP ratio excludes Regional Banking™s core deposit intangible amor-

tization expense related to the Bank of New York transaction and the Bank One merg-

er of $460 million,$458 million and $496 million for the years ended December 31,

2007,2006 and 2005,respectively.
2007 compared with 2006
Regional Banking net income was $2.3 billion,a decrease of $583 mil-
lion,or 20%,from the prior year.Total net revenue was $13.0 billion,up

$1.0 billion,or 9%,benefiting from the following:the Bank of New York

transaction;increased deposit-related fees;the absence of a prior-year

$233 million loss related to $13.3 billion of mortgage loans transferred

to held-for-sale;growth in deposits;and wider loan spreads.These bene-

fits were offset partially by the sale of the insurance business and a shift

to narrowerŒspread deposit products.The Provision for credit losses was

$2.2 billion,compared with $354 million in the prior year.The increase in

the provision was due to the home equity and subprime mortgage port-

folios (see Retail Financial Services discussion of the Provision for credit
losses for further detail).Noninterest expense was $7.0 billion,up $198

million,or 3%,from the prior year,as the Bank of New York transaction

and investments in the retail distribution network were offset partially by
the sale of the insurance business.
2006 compared with 2005
Regional BankingNet income of $2.9 billion was up $104 million from
the prior year.Total net revenue of $12.0 billion was up $303 million,or

3%,including the impact of a $233 million 2006 loss resulting from

$13.3 billion of mortgage loans transferred to held-for-sale and a prior-

year loss of $120 million resulting from $3.3 billion of mortgage loans
transferred to held-for-sale.Results benefited from the Bank of New York

transaction;the acquisition of Collegiate Funding Services;growth in

deposits and home equity loans;and increases in deposit-related fees

and credit card sales.These benefits were offset partially by the sale of

the insurance business,narrower spreads on loans,and a shift to nar-

rower-spread deposit prod
ucts.The Provision for credit losses decreased
$158 million,primarily the result of a $230 million special provision in the

prior year related to Hurricane Katrina,which was offset partially by addi-
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
46JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
agement and reporting purposes.The transfer had no impact on the financial results
of Regional Banking.Balances reported at December 31,2007 primarily reflected

subprime mortgage loans owned.(b) Included commercial loans derived from community development activities and,prior
to July 1,2006,insurance policy loans.
(c) Average loans included loans held-for-sale of $3.8 billion,$2.8 billion and $2.9 bil-
lion for the years ended December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,respectively.These

amounts were excluded when calculating in the Net charge-off rate.
(d) Excluded loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA
pools that are insured by U.S.government agencies of $1.2 billion,$960 million,

and $896 million at December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,respectively.These

amounts are excluded as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(e) Excluded loans that are 30 days past due and still accruing,which are insured by
U.S.government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $663

million and $464 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.The educa-

tion loans past due 30 days were insignificant at December 31,2005.These

amounts are excluded as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(f) The Mortgage and Total net charge-off rate for 2007,excluded $2 million of charge-
offs related to prime mortgage loans held by Treasury in the Corporate sector.
(g) Excluded nonperforming assets related to education loans that are 90 days past due
and still accruing,which are insured by U.S.government agencies under the Federal

Family Education Loan Program of $279 million and $219 million at December 31,

2007 and 2006,respectively.The Education loans past due 90 days were insignifi-

cant at December 31,2005.These amounts were excluded as reimbursement is pro-

ceeding normally.
Retail branch business metrics
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except 
where otherwise noted)200720062005
Investment sales volume$18,360
$14,882$11,144
Number of:Branches
3,152#3,079#2,641#
ATMs
9,1868,5067,312
Personal bankers
(a)9,6507,5737,067
Sales specialists(a)4,1053,6143,214
Active online customers (in thousands)
(b)5,9184,9093,756
Checking accounts 
(in thousands)10,8399,9958,793
(a)Employees acquired as part of the Bank of New York transaction are included begin-
ning in 2007.(b)During 2007,RFS changed the methodology for determining active online customers
to include all individual RFS customers with one or more online accounts who have
been active within 90 days of period end,including customers who also have online

accounts with Card Services.Prior periods have been revised to conform to this new

methodology.
Mortgage Banking Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios and where 
otherwise noted)200720062005
Production revenue(a)$1,360
$833$744
Net mortgage servicing revenue:Servicing revenue2,5102,3002,115
Changes in MSR asset fair value:
Due to inputs or assumptionsin model
(516)165770
Other changes in fair value
(1,531)(1,440)(1,295)
Total changes in MSR asset fair 
value
(2,047)(1,275)(525)
Derivative valuation adjustments 
and other879(544)(494)
Total net mortgage servicing 
revenue1,342
4811,096
Total net revenue2,702
1,3141,840
Noninterest expense(a)1,9871,3411,239
Income (loss) before income tax 
expense715(27)601
Net income (loss)$439
$(17)$379
ROE22%NM24%
Business metrics(in billions)
Third-party mortgage loans serviced
(ending)$614.7
$526.7$467.5
MSR net carrying value (ending)
8.67.56.5
Average mortgage loans 
held-for-sale
(b)18.812.812.1
Average assets 
33.925.822.4
Average equity
2.01.71.6
Mortgage origination volumeby channel(c)(in billions)
Retail $45.5
$40.5$46.3
Wholesale42.732.834.2
Correspondent 27.913.314.1
CNT (negotiated transactions)
43.332.634.4
Total$159.4
$119.2$129.0
(a)The Firm adopted SFAS 159 in the first quarter of 2007.As a result,certain loan 
origination costs have been classified as expense (previously netted against revenue)
for the year ended December 31,2007.
(b)Included $11.9 billion of prime mortgage loans at fair value for the year ended
December 31,2007.These loans are classified as Trading assets on the Consolidated

balance sheet for 2007.(c)During the second quarter of 2007,RFS changed its definition of mortgage origina-
tions to include all newly originated mortgage loans sourced through RFS channels,

and to exclude all mortgage loan originations sourced through IB channels.Prior

periods have been revised to conform to this new definition.2007 compared with 2006
Mortgage Banking Net income was $439 million,compared with a

net loss of $17 million in the prior year.Total net revenue was $2.7

billion,up $1.4 billion.Total net revenue comprises production rev-

enue and net mortgage servicing revenue.Production revenue was

$1.4 billion,up $527 million,benefiting from an increase in mort-

gage loan originations and the classification of certain loan origina-
tion costs as expense (loan origination costs previously netted
against revenue commenced being recorded as an expense in the
first quarter of 2007 due to the adoption of SFAS 159).These bene-
The following is a brief description of selected terms

used by Regional Banking.
ersonal bankers Œ 
Retail branch office personnel who
acquire,retain and expand new and existing customer relation-

ships by assessing customer needs and recommending and
selling appropriate banking products and services.
Sales specialists Œ 
Retail branch office personnel who spe-
cialize in the marketing of a single product,including mort-

gages,investments,and business banking,by partnering with

the personal bankers.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
47fits were offset partially by markdowns of $241 million on the mort-gage warehouse and pipeline.Net mortgage servicing revenue,

which includes loan servicing revenue,MSR risk management results

and other changes in fair value,was $1.3 billion,compared with

$481 million in the prior year.Loan servicing revenue of $2.5 billion

increased $210 million on 17% growth in third-party loans serviced.
MSR risk management revenue of $363 million improved $742 mil-
lion from the prior year,reflecting a $499 million current-year posi-

tive valuation adjustment to the MSR asset due to a decrease in

estimated future mortgage prepayments;and the absence of a $235

million prior-year negative valuation adjustment to the MSR asset.

Other changes in fair value of the MSR asset were negative $1.5

billion compared with negative $1.4 billion in the prior year.

Noninterest expense was $2.0 billion,an increase of $646 million,

or 48%.The increase reflected the classification of 
certain loan origi-nation costs due to the adoption of SFAS 159,higher 
servicing costsdue to increased delinquencies and defaults,and higher production

expense due partly to growth in originations.
2006 compared with 2005
Mortgage Banking Net loss was $17 million compared with net income
of $379 million in the prior year.Total net revenue of $1.3 billion was

down $526 million from the prior year due to a decline in net mort-
gage servicing revenue offset partially by an increase in production rev-enue.Production revenue was $833 million,up $89 million,
reflectingincreased loan sales and wider gain on sale margins that benefited
from a shift in the sales mix.Net mortgage servicing revenue,which

includes loan servicing revenue,MSR risk management results and

other changes in fair value,was $481 million compared with $1.1 bil-

lion in the prior year.Loan servicing revenue of $2.3 billion increased

$185 million on a 13% increase in third-party loans serviced.MSR risk

management revenue of negative $379 million was down $655 million

from the prior year,including the impact of a $235 million negative

valuation adjustment to the MSR asset in the third quarter of 2006 due

to changes and refinements to assumptions used in the MSR valuation

model.Other changes in fair value of the MSR asset,representing

runoff of the asset against the realization of servicing cash flows,were

negative $1.4 billion.Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion,up $102

million,or 8%,due primarily to higher compensation expense related

to an increase in loan officers.
Mortgage Banking origination channels comprise the
following:RetailŒ Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a homethrough direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the

Firm using a branch office,the Internet or by phone.Borrowers

are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate bro-

kers,home builders or other third parties.
Wholesale
Œ A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applica-
tions to a mortgage banker at the Firm.Brokers are independent

loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrow-
ers but do not provide funding for loans.
Correspondent
Œ Banks,thrifts,other mortgage banks 
andother financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.Correspondent negotiated transactions (ﬁCNTﬂ)
Œ Mid-to large-sized mortgage lenders,banks and bank-owned compa-

nies that sell loans or servicing to the Firm on an as-originated
basis,excluding bulk servicing transactions.
Production revenue 
Œ Includes net gains or losses on origi-nations and sales of prime and subprime mortgage loans and

other production-related fees.
Net Mortgage servicing revenue components:

Servicing revenue
Œ Represents all gross income earned fromservicing third-party mortgage loans,including stated service

fees,excess service fees,late fees and other ancillary fees.
Changes in MSR asset fair value due to inputs or
assumptions in model Œ Represents MSR asset fair value
adjustments due to changes in market-based inputs,such as

interest rates and volatility,as well as updates to valuation

assumptions used in the valuation model.
Changes in MSR asset fair value due to other changes
Œ Includes changes in the MSR value due to modeled servicing

portfolio runoff (or time decay).Effective January 1,2006,the

Firm implemented SFAS 156,adopting fair value for the MSR

asset.For the year ended December 31,2005,this amount rep-

resents MSR asset amortization expense calculated in accor-

dance with SFAS 140.
Derivative valuation adjustments and other
Œ Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments used to offset the

impact of changes in market-based inputs to the MSR valuation

model.MSR risk management results
Œ Includes changes in MSRasset fair value due to inputs or assumptions and derivative val-

uation adjustments and other.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
48JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
2007 compared with 2006
Auto Finance Net income was $295 million,a decrease of $51 mil-

lion,or 15%,from the prior year.Net revenue was $1.8 billion,up

$218 million,or 14%,reflecting wider loan spreads and higher

automobile operating lease revenue.The Provision for credit losses

was $380 million,up $173 million,reflecting an increase in estimat-

ed losses.The net charge-off rate was 0.86% compared with 0.56%

in the prior year.Noninterest expense of $890 million increased

$129 million,or 17%,driven by increased depreciation expense on

owned automobiles subject to operating leases.
2006 compared with 2005
Net income of $346 million was up $78 million from the prior year,
including the impact of a $50 million 2006 loss and a $136 million
prior-year loss related to loans transferred to held-for-sale.Total net

revenue of $1.5 billion was up $218 million,or 17%,reflecting high-

er automobile operating lease revenue and wider loan spreads on

lower loan and direct finance lease balances.The Provision for credit

losses of $207 million decreased $5 million from the prior year.

Noninterest expense of $761 million increased $90 million,or 13%,

driven by increased depreciation expense on owned automobiles

subject to operating leases,partially offset by operating efficiencies.
Auto FinanceSelected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios and
where otherwise noted)200720062005
Noninterest revenue $551
$368$86
Net interest income1,2061,1711,235
Total net revenue1,757
1,5391,321
Provision for credit losses380207212
Noninterest expense890761671
Income before income tax 
expense487
571438
Net income$295
$346$268
ROE13%14%10%
ROA0.680.770.50
Business metrics (in billions)Auto originations volume$21.3
$19.3$18.1
End-of-period loans and lease-related assetsLoans outstanding$42.0
$39.3$41.7
Lease financing receivables
0.31.74.3
Operating lease assets
1.91.60.9
Total end-of-period  
loansandlease-related 
assets44.2
42.646.9
Average loans and lease-related 
assetsLoans outstanding(a)$40.2
$39.8$45.5
Lease financing receivables
0.92.96.2
Operating lease assets
1.71.30.4
Total average loans and 
lease-related assets42.8
44.052.1
Average assets
43.344.953.2
Average equity
2.22.42.7
Credit quality statistics
30+ day delinquency rate
1.85%1.72%1.66%
Net charge-offsLoans$350
$231$257
Lease receivables
4720
Total net charge-offs354
238277
Net charge-off rate
Loans(a)0.87%0.59%0.57%
Lease receivables
0.440.240.32
Total net charge-off 
rate
(a)0.860.560.54
Nonperforming assets$188
$177$236
(a)Average Loans held-for-sale were $530 million and $744 million for 2006 and 2005,
respectively.Average Loans held-for-sale for 2007 were insignificant.These amounts are

excluded when calculating the net charge-off rate.
Global Reports LLC
CARD SERVICES
With 
155 million cards in circulation and more than $157
billion in managed loans,Card Services is one of the

nation™s largest credit card issuers.Customers used Chase

cards to meet more than $354 billion worth of their

spending needs in 2007.With hundreds of partnerships,Chase has a market leader-

ship position in building loyalty programs with many of the

world™s most respected brands.The Chase-branded product

line was strengthened in 2007 with enhancements to the

popular Chase Freedom Program,which has generated more

than one million new customers since its launch in 2006
.Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC,a joint venture between

JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corporation,is a processor

of MasterCard and Visa payments,which handled more

than 19 billion transactions in 2007.
JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of ﬁmanaged basisﬂto 

evaluate the credit performance of its credit card loans,both loans on

the balance sheet and loans that have been securitized.For further

information,see Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s 

use of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 36Œ37 of this Annual

Report.Managed results exclude the impact of credit card securitiza-

tions on Total net revenue,the Provision for credit losses,net charge-

offs and loan receivables.Securitization does not change reported Net

income;however,it does affect the classification of items on the

Consolidated statements of income and Consolidated balance sheets.
Selected income statement data Œ managed basisYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
RevenueCredit card income$2,685
$2,587$3,351
All other income361357212
Noninterest revenue3,046
2,9443,563
Net interest income12,189
11,80111,803
Total net revenue15,235
14,74515,366
Provision for credit losses5,7114,5987,346
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense1,0211,0031,081
Noncompensation expense3,1733,3443,170
Amortization of intangibles720739748
Total noninterest expense4,914
5,0864,999
Income before income tax 
expense4,6105,0613,021
Income tax expense1,6911,8551,114
Net income$2,919
$3,206$1,907
Memo:Net securitization gains
$67
$82$56
Financial ratios

ROE21%23%16%
Overhead ratio
323433
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
49As a result of the integration of Chase Merchant Services andPaymentech merchant processing businesses into a joint venture,beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005, Total net revenue, Total non-interest expense and Income before income tax expense were reducedto reflect the deconsolidation of Paymentech. There was no impact toNet income. To illustrate underlying business trends, the following dis-cussion of CS™ performance assumes that the deconsolidation ofPaymentech had occurred as of the beginning of 2005. For a furtherdiscussion of the deconsolidation of Paymentech, see Note 2 on pages109Œ110, and Note 31 on pages 170Œ173, respectively, of this AnnualReport. The following table presents a reconciliation of CS™ managedbasis to an adjusted basis to disclose the effect of the deconsolidationof Paymentech on CS™ results for the periods presented.Reconciliation of Card Services™ managed results to an

adjusted basis to disclose the effect of the Paymentech

deconsolidation.Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Noninterest revenue
Managed $3,046
$2,944$3,563
Adjustment for Paymentech
ŠŠ(422)
Adjusted Noninterest 
revenue$3,046
$2,944$3,141
Total net revenue
Managed $15,235
$14,745$15,366
Adjustment for Paymentech
ŠŠ(435)
Adjusted Total net revenue$15,235
$14,745$14,931
Total noninterest expense
Managed $4,914
$5,086$4,999
Adjustment for Paymentech
ŠŠ(389)
Adjusted Total noninterest 
expense$
4,914$5,086$4,610
2007 compared with 2006 
Net income of $2.9 billion was down $287 million,or 9%,from the

prior year.Prior-year results benefited from significantly lower net

charge-offs following the change in bankruptcy legislation in the
fourth quarter of 2005.The increase in net charge-offs was offset

partially by higher revenue.
End-of-period managed loans of $157.1 billion increased $4.2 billion,or 3%,from the prior year.Average managed loans of $149.3 billion

increased $8.2 billion,or 6%,from the prior year.The increases in

both end-of-period and average managed loans resulted from organ-

ic growth.Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
50JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Managed Total net revenue was $15.2 billion,an increase of $490 million,
or 3%,from the prior year.Net interest income was $12.2 billion,up $388

million,or 3%,from the prior year.The increase in Net interest income was

driven by a higher level of fees and higher average loan balances.These

benefits were offset partially by narrower loan spreads,the discontinuation

of certain billing practices (including the elimination of certain over-limit fees

and the two-cycle billing method for calculating finance charges beginning
in the second quarter of 2007) and the effect of higher revenue reversals
associated with higher charge-offs.Noninterest revenue was $3.0 billion,an

increase of $102 million,or 3%,from the prior year.The increase reflects a

higher level of fee-based revenue and increased net interchange income,

which benefited from higher charge volume.Charge volume 
growth of 4%reflected a 9% increase in sales volume,offset primarily
by a lower level ofbalance transfers,the result of more targeted marketing efforts.
The managed Provision for credit losses was $5.7 billion,an increase of

$1.1 billion,or 24%,from the prior year.The increase was primarily due

to a higher level of net charge-offs (the prior year benefited from the
change in bankruptcy legislation in the fourth quarter of 2005) and an
increase in the Allowance for loan losses driven by higher estimated net

charge-offs in the portfolio.The managed net charge-off rate was 3.68%,

up from 3.33% in the prior year.The 30-day managed delinquency rate

was 3.48%,up from 3.13% in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $4.9 billion,a decrease of $172 million,or

3%,compared with the prior year,primarily due to lower marketing

expense and lower fraud-related expense,partially offset by higher

volume-related expense.
2006 compared with 2005
Net income of $3.2 billion was up $1.3 billion,or 68%,from the prior

year.Results were driven by a lower Provision for credit losses due to

significantly lower bankruptcy filings.
End-of-period managed loans of $152.8 billion increased $10.6 billion,or
7%,from the prior year.Average managed loans of $141.1 billion

increased $4.7 billion,or 3%,from the prior year.Compared with the

prior year,both average managed and end-of-period managed loans con-

tinued to be affected negatively by higher customer payment rates.

Management believes that contributing to the higher payment rates are

the new minimum payment rules and a higher proportion of customers in
rewards-based programs.
2006 benefited from organic growth and reflected acquisitions of
two loan portfolios.The first portfolio was the Sears Canada credit

card business,which closed in the fourth quarter of 2005.The Sears

Canada portfolio™s average managed loan balances were $2.1 billion

in 2006 and $291 million in the prior year.The second purchase was

the Kohl™s Corporation (ﬁKohl™sﬂ) private label portfolio,which closed

in the second quarter of 2006.The Kohl™s portfolio average and peri-

od-end managed loan balances for 2006 were $1.2 billion and $2.5
billion,respectively.
Managed Total net revenue of $14.7 billion was down $186 million,
or1%,from the prior year.Net interest income of $11.8 billion was flat

to the prior year.Net interest income benefited from an increase in

average managed loan balances and lower revenue reversals associ-

ated with lower charge-offs.These increases were offset by attrition

of mature,higher spread balances as a result of higher payment rates

and higher cost of funds on balance growth in promotional,introduc-
tory and transactor loan balances,which increased due to continued

investment in marketing.Noninterest revenue of $2.9 billion was

down $197 million,or 6%.Interchange income increased,benefiting

from 12% higher charge volume,but was more than offset by higher

volume-driven payments to partners,including Kohl™s,and increased

rewards expense (both of which are netted against interchange

income).The managed Provision for credit losses was $4.6 billion,down $2.7

billion,or 37%,from the prior year.This benefit was due to a signifi-

cant decrease in net charge-offs of $2.4 billion,reflecting the contin-

ued low level of bankruptcy losses,partially offset by an increase in

contractual net charge-offs.The provision also benefited from a

release in the Allowance for loan losses in 2006 of unused reserves

related to Hurricane Katrina,compared with an increase in the

Allowance for loan losses in the prior year.The managed net charge-

off rate decreased to 3.33%,from 5.21% in the prior year.The 30-

day managed delinquency rate was 3.13%,up from 2.79% in the

prior year.
Noninterest expense of $5.1 billion was up $476 million,or 10%,

from the prior year due largely to higher marketing spending and

acquisitions offset partially by merger savings.
The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Card Services.
 Charge volume
Œ Represents the dollar amount of cardmember purchases,balance transfers and cash advance activity.
 Net accounts opened
Œ Includes originations,purchases and sales.
 Merchant acquiring business
Œ Represents an entity that processes bank card transactions for merchants.JPMorgan Chase is a partner in Chase
Paymentech Solutions,LLC,a merchant acquiring business.
- Bank card volume
Œ Represents the dollar amount of 
transactions
processed for merchants.
- Total transactions
Œ Represents the number of transactions and authorizations processed for merchants.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
51Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount,ratios
and where otherwise noted)200720062005
Financial metrics% of average managed outstandings:
Net interest income8.16%8.36%8.65%
Provision for credit losses3.823.265.39
Noninterest revenue2.042.092.61
Risk adjusted margin(a)6.387.195.88
Noninterest expense3.293.603.67
Pretax income (ROO)(b)3.093.592.21
Net income1.952.271.40
Business metricsCharge volume (in billions)$354.6
$339.6$301.9
Net accounts opened (in millions)(c)16.4#45.9#21.1#
Credit cards issued (in millions)155.0154.4110.4
Number of registered Internet customers (in millions)
28.322.514.6
Merchant acquiring business(d)Bank card volume (in billions)$719.1
$660.6$563.1
Total transactions (in billions)
19.7#18.2#15.5#
Selected ending balances
Loans:Loans on balance sheets$84,352
$85,881$71,738
Securitized loans 72,70166,95070,527
Managed loans$157,053
$152,831$142,265
Selected average balances
Managed assets$155,957
$148,153$141,933
Loans:Loans on balance sheets$79,980
$73,740$67,334
Securitized loans69,33867,36769,055
Managed average loans$149,318
$141,107$136,389
Equity$14,100
$14,100$11,800
Headcount18,554#
18,639#18,629#
Managed credit quality 
statistics Net charge-offs $5,496
$4,698$7,100
Net charge-off rate
3.68%3.33%5.21%
Managed delinquency ratios 
30+ days3.48%3.13%2.79%
90+ days1.651.501.27
Allowance for loan losses
(e)$3,407
$3,176$3,274
Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans(e)4.04%3.70%4.56%
(a)Represents Total net revenue less Provision for credit losses.
(b)Pretax return on average managed outstandings.

(c)2006 included approximately 30 million accounts from loan portfolio acquisitions and

2005 included approximately 10 million accounts from portfolio acquisitions
.(d)Represents 100% of the merchant acquiring business.

(e)Loans on a reported basis.
The financial information presented below reconciles reported basis
and managed basis to disclose the effect of securitizations.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Income statement data(a)Credit card incomeReported $5,940
$6,096$6,069
Securitization adjustments(3,255)(3,509)(2,718)
Managed credit card income$
2,685$2,587$3,351
Net interest incomeReported  $6,554
$6,082$5,309
Securitization adjustments5,6355,7196,494
Managed net interest income$
12,189$11,801$11,803
Total net revenue
Reported  $12,855
$12,535$11,590
Securitization adjustments2,3802,2103,776
Managed total net revenue$15,235
$14,745$15,366
Provision for credit lossesReported  $3,331
$2,388$3,570
Securitization adjustments2,3802,2103,776
Managed provision for 
credit losses$
5,711$4,598$7,346
Balance sheet Œ average 
balances(a)Total average assets
Reported  $89,177
$82,887$74,753
Securitization adjustments66,78065,26667,180
Managed average assets$155,957
$148,153$141,933
Credit quality statistics
(a)Net charge-offsReported  $3,116
$2,488$3,324
Securitization adjustments2,3802,2103,776
Managed net charge-offs$5,496
$4,698$7,100
(a)For a discussion of managed basis,see the non-GAAP financial measures discussion
on pages 36Œ37 of this Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
COMMERCIAL BANKINGCommercial Banking 
serves more than 30,000
clients nationally,including corporations,municipal-

ities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities

with annual revenue generally ranging from 
$10million to $2 billion.Commercial 
Banking delivers
extensive industry knowledge,local expertise and
adedicatedservice
model.In partnership with the
Firm™s other businesses,it provides 
comprehensive
solutions including lending,treasury 
services,invest-
ment banking and asset management to meet its

clients™ domestic and international financial needs.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
RevenueLending & deposit-related fees$647
$589$572
Asset management,administration 
and commissions926757
All other income(a)524417357
Noninterest revenue1,263
1,073986
Net interest income2,840
2,7272,502
Total net revenue4,103
3,8003,488
Provision for credit losses(b)27916073
Noninterest expense

Compensation expense706740654
Noncompensation expense1,1971,1791,137
Amortization of intangibles556065
Total noninterest expense1,958
1,9791,856
Income before income tax 
expense1,866
1,6611,559
Income tax expense 732651608
Net income$1,134
$1,010$951
Financial ratios
ROE17%18%28%
Overhead ratio
485253
(a)Investment banking-related and commercial card revenue is included in all other
income.
(b)2005 includes a $35 million special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.
On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of
The Bank of New York™s consumer,business banking and middle-

market banking businesses,adding approximately $2.3 billion in

loans and $1.2 billion in deposits to the Commercial Bank.2007 compared with 2006 

Net income was $1.1 billion,an increase of $124 million,or 12%,

from the prior year due primarily to growth in total net revenue,

partially offset by higher Provision for credit losses.
Record total net revenue of $4.1 billion increased $303 million,or 8%.Net interest income of $2.8 billion increased $113 million,or

4%,driven by double-digit growth in liability balances and loans,

which reflected organic growth and the Bank of New York transac-

tion,largely offset by the continued shift to narrowerŒspread liability

products and spread compression in the loan and liability portfolios.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
52JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Noninterest revenue was $1.3 billion,up $190 million,or 18%,due
to increased deposit-related fees,higher investment banking revenue,
and gains on sales of securities acquired in the satisfaction of debt.On a segment basis,Middle Market Banking revenue was $2.7 billion,
an increase of $154 million,or 6%,primarily due to the Bank of

New York transaction,higher deposit-related fees and growth in

investment banking revenue.Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was

$815 million,an increase of $159 million,or 24%,reflecting higher

lending revenue,investment banking revenue,and gains on sales of

securities acquired in the satisfaction of debt.Real Estate Banking

revenue of $421 million decreased $37 million,or 8%.
Provision for credit losses was $279 million,compared with $160 mil-

lion in the prior year.The increase in the allowance for credit losses

reflected portfolio activity including slightly lower credit quality as well
as growth in loan balances.The Allowance for loan losses to average

loans retained was 2.81%,compared with 2.86% in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $2.0 billion,a decrease of $21 million,

or 1%,largely due to lower Compensation expense driven by the

absence of prior-year expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R,

partially offset by expense growth related to the Bank of New York

transaction.
2006 compared with 2005
Net income of $1.0 billion increased $59 million,or 6%,from the

prior year due to higher revenue,partially offset by higher expense

and Provision for credit losses.
Record total net revenue of $3.8 billion increased 9%,or $312 million.

Net interest income increased to $2.7 billion,primarily driven by higher

liability balances and loan volumes,partially offset by loan spread com-

pression and a shift to narrower-spread liability products.Noninterest

revenue was $1.1 billion,up $87 million,or 9%,due to record

Investment banking revenue and higher commercial card revenue.
Revenue grew for each CB business compared with the prior year,driv-
en by increased treasury services,investment banking and lending rev-

enue.Compared with the prior year,Middle Market Banking revenue of

$2.5 billion increased $177 million,or 8%.Mid-Corporate Banking rev-

enue of $656 million increased $105 million,or 19%,and Real Estate

Banking revenue of $458 million increased $24 million,or 6%.
Provision for credit losses was $160 million,up from $73 million in

the prior year,reflecting portfolio activity and the establishment of

additional Allowance for loan losses related to loans acquired from

The Bank of New York,partially offset by a release of the unused 

portion of the special reserve established in 2005 for Hurricane
Katrina.Net charge-offs were flat compared with the prior year.

Nonperforming loans declined 56%,to $121 million.
Total noninterest expense of $2.0 billion increased $123 million,or

7%,from last year,primarily related to incremental compensation

expense related to SFAS 123R and increased expense resulting from

higher client usage of Treasury Services™ products.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
53Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount 
and ratios)
200720062005
Revenue by product:
Lending$1,419
$1,344$1,215
Treasury services
2,3502,2432,062
Investment banking292253206
Other42(40)5
Total Commercial Banking 
revenue$4,103
$3,800$3,488
IB revenue,gross
(a)$888
$716$552
Revenue by business:
Middle Market Banking
$2,689
$2,535$2,358
Mid-Corporate Banking
815656551
Real Estate Banking421458434
Other178151145
Total Commercial Banking 
revenue$4,103
$3,800$3,488
Selected average balances:
Total assets
$87,140
$57,754$52,358
Loans:Loans retained60,23153,15447,834
Loans held-for-sale and loans at 
fair value
863442283
Total loans
(b)61,09453,59648,117
Liability balances(c)87,72673,61366,055
Equity6,5025,7023,400
Average loans by business:
Middle Market Banking
$37,333
$33,225$31,193
Mid-Corporate Banking
12,4818,6326,388
Real Estate Banking7,1167,5666,909
Other4,1644,1733,627
Total Commercial Banking 
loans$61,094
$53,596$48,117
Headcount4,125#
4,459#4,418#
Credit data and quality 
statistics:Net charge-offs $44
$27$26
Nonperforming loans146121272
Allowance for credit losses:
Allowance for loan losses
1,6951,5191,392
Allowance for lending-related 
commitments236187154
Total allowance for credit losses
1,9311,7061,546
Net charge-off rate
(b)0.07%0.05%0.05%
Allowance for loan losses to 
average loans
(b)2.812.862.91
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans1,1611,255512
Nonperforming loans to average loans
0.240.230.57
(a)Represents the total revenue related to investment banking products sold to CB clients.
(b)Loans held-for-sale and loans accounted for at fair value under SFAS 159 were
excluded when calculating the allowance coverage ratio and the net charge-off rate.
(c)Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to onŒbalance sheet liabilities
such as Commercial paper,Federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements.
Commercial Banking revenue comprises the following:
Lendingincludes a variety of financing alternatives,which are
primarily provided on a basis secured by receivables,inventory,

equipment,real estate or other assets.Products include:
erm loans



structures

Treasury services
includes a broad range of products and serv-
ices enabling clients to transfer,invest and manage the receipt

and disbursement of funds,while providing the related informa-

tion reporting.These products and services include:
.S.dollar and multi-currency clearing
CH

x




Trade finance and logistics solutions


,sweeps and money market mutual funds
Investment bankingprovides clients with sophisticated capi-tal-raising alternatives,as well as balance sheet and risk manage-

ment tools,through:



ade debt

ed securities

ate placements


atives

oreign exchange hedges

Global Reports LLC
TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES
TSS is a global leader in transaction,investment and
information services.TSS is one of the world™s largest
cash management providers and a leading global
custodian.TS provides cash management,trade,

wholesale card and liquidity products and services to

small and mid-sized companies,multinational corpo-
rations,financial institutions and government entities.
TS partners with the Commercial Banking,Retail

Financial Services and Asset Management businesses

to serve clients firmwide.As a result,certain TS rev-
enue is included in other segments™ results.WSS holds,
values,clears and services securities,cash and alter-

native investments for investors and broker-dealers,

and manages depositary receipt programs globally.
As a result of the transaction with The Bank of New York on October 1,
2006,selected corporate trust businesses were transferred from TSS

to the Corporate segment and are reported in discontinued operations

for all periods presented.Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
RevenueLending & deposit-related fees$923
$735$731
Asset management,administration 
and commissions3,0502,6922,409
All other income708612519
Noninterest revenue4,681
4,0393,659
Net interest income2,264
2,0701,880
Total net revenue6,945
6,1095,539
Provision for credit losses19(1)Š
Credit reimbursement to IB(a)(121)(121)(154)
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense2,3532,1981,874
Noncompensation expense2,1611,9952,095
Amortization of intangibles667381
Total noninterest expense4,580
4,2664,050
Income before income tax 
expense2,225
1,7231,335
Income tax expense 828633472
Net income$1,397
$1,090$863
Financial ratios
ROE47%48%57%
Overhead ratio
667073
Pretax margin ratio
(b)322824
(a)TSS was charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed with-
in the IB credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.
(b)Pretax margin represents Income before income tax expense divided by Total net rev-
enue,which is a measure of pretax performance and another basis by which man-

agement evaluates its performance and that of its competitors.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
54JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
2007 compared with 2006
Net income was a record $1.4 billion,an increase of $307 million,or

28%,from the prior year,driven by record net revenue,partially off-

set by higher noninterest expense.
Total net revenue was $6.9 billion,an increase of $836 million,or
14%,from the prior year.Worldwide Securities Services net revenue

of $3.9 billion was up $615 million,or 19%.The growth was driven

by increased product usage by new and existing clients (primarily
custody,securities lending,depositary receipts and fund services),

market appreciation on assets under custody,and wider spreads on

securities lending.These gains were offset partially by spread com-

pression on liability products.Treasury Services net revenue was $3.0

billion,an increase of $221 million,or 8%,from the prior year.The

results were driven by growth in electronic transaction volumes and

higher liability balances,offset partially by a shift to narrower-spread

liability products.TSS firmwide net revenue,which includes Treasury

Services net revenue recorded in other lines of business,grew to

$9.6 billion,up $1.0 billion,or 12%.Treasury Services firmwide net

revenue grew to $5.6 billion,up $391 million,or 7%.
Noninterest expense was $4.6 billion,an increase of $314 million,or
7%,from the prior year,reflecting higher expense related to business

and volume growth,as well as investment in new product platforms.
2006 compared with 2005
Net income was $1.1 billion,an increase of $227 million,or 26%,

from the prior year.Earnings benefited from increased net revenue
and the absence of prior-year charges of $58 million (after-tax) related
to the termination of a client contract,partially offset by higher com-

pensation expense.
Total net revenue was $6.1 billion,an increase of $570 million,or

10%.Worldwide Securities Services net revenue of $3.3 billion grew

by $473 million,or 17%.The growth was driven by increased product

usage by new and existing clients (primarily custody,fund services,
depositary receipts and securities lending) and market appreciation

on assets under custody.Treasury Services net revenue of $2.8 billion

was up 4%.The growth was driven by higher liability balances,offset

partially by a shift to narrower-spread liability products.TSS firmwide

net revenue,which includes Treasury Services net revenue recorded in

other lines of business,grew to $8.6 billion,up $778 million,or

10%.Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to $5.2 billion,an

increase of $305 million,or 6%.
Total noninterest expense was $4.3 billion,up $216 million,or 5%.
The increase was due to higher compensation expense related to

increased client activity,business growth,investment in new product

platforms and incremental expense related to SFAS 123R,partially

offset by the absence of prior-year charges of $93 million related to

the termination of a client contract.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
55Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount,ratio data 
and where otherwise noted)200720062005
Revenue by businessTreasury Services
$3,013
$2,792$2,695
Worldwide Securities Services
3,9323,3172,844
Total net revenue$6,945
$6,109$5,539
Business metrics
Assets under custody (in billions)$15,946
$13,903$10,662
Number of:US$ ACH transactions originated 
(in millions)3,870#3,503#2,966#
Total US$ clearing volume 
(in thousands)
111,036104,84695,713
International electronic funds transfer 
volume (in thousands)(a)168,605145,32589,537
Wholesale check volume (in millions)2,9253,4093,735
Wholesale cards issued (in thousands)
(b)18,72217,22813,206
Selected balance sheets (average)
Total assets
$53,350
$31,760$28,206
Loans(c)20,82115,56412,349
Liability balances(d)228,925189,540154,731
Equity3,0002,2851,525
Headcount25,669#
25,423#22,207#
TSS firmwide metricsTreasury Services firmwide 
revenue(e)$5,633
$5,242$4,937
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide revenue(e)9,5658,5597,781
Treasury Services firmwide overhead 
ratio
(f)56%56%58%
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide overhead ratio
(f)606265
Treasury Services firmwide liability 
balances (average)
(g)$199,077
$162,020$139,579
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide liability balances(g)316,651262,678220,781
(a)International electronic funds transfer includes non-US$ ACH and clearing volume.
(b)Wholesale cards issued include domestic commercial card,stored value card,prepaid
card and government electronic benefit card products.
(c)Loan balances include wholesale overdrafts,commercial cards and trade finance loans.

(d) Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to on-balance sheet liabilities
such as Commercial paper,Federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements.
(e) Firmwide revenue includes TS revenue recorded in the CB,Regional Banking and 

AM lines of business (see below) and 
excludes FX revenue recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity.
(in millions)200720062005
Treasury Services revenue reported in CB
$2,350
$2,243$2,062
Treasury Services revenue reported in
other lines of business270207180
TSS firmwide FX revenue,
which includes FX revenue recorded in TSS and FX revenue
associated with TSS customers who are FX customers of the IB,was $552 million,

$445 million and $382 million for the years ended December 31,2007,2006 and

2005,respectively.
(f)Overhead ratios have been calculated based upon firmwide revenue and TSS and TS
expense,
respectively,including those allocated to certain other lines of business.FX
revenue and expense recorded in the IB for TSS-related FX activity are not included 

in this ratio.
(g) Firmwide liability balances include TS™ liability balances recorded in certain other lines 
of business.
Treasury & Securities Services
firmwide metrics include cer-
tain TSS product revenue and liability balances reported in other

lines of business for customers who are also customers of those
lines of business.Management reviews firmwide metrics such as

liability balances,revenue and overhead ratios in assessing finan-

cial performance for TSS as such firmwide metrics capture the
firmwide impact of TS™ and TSS™ products and services.Management
believes such firmwide metrics are necessary in order to under-
stand the aggregate TSS business.
Global Reports LLC
ASSET MANAGEMENT 
With assets under supervision of $1.6 trillion,AM is a
global leader in investment and wealth management.
AM clients include institutions,retail investors and

high-net-worth individuals in every major market

throughout the world.AM offers global investment

management in equities,fixed income,real estate,

hedge funds,private equity and liquidity,including

both money-market instruments and bank deposits.

AM also provides trust and estate and banking servic-

es to high-net-worth clients,and retirement services

for corporations and individuals.The majority of AM™s

client assets are in actively managed portfolios.
Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
RevenueAsset management,administration 
and commissions$6,821
$5,295$4,189
All other income654521394
Noninterest revenue7,475
5,8164,583
Net interest income1,160
9711,081
Total net revenue8,635
6,7875,664
Provision for credit losses(18)(28)(56)
Noninterest expense

Compensation expense3,5212,7772,179
Noncompensation expense1,9151,7131,582
Amortization of intangibles798899
Total noninterest expense5,515
4,5783,860
Income before income tax 
expense3,138
2,2371,860
Income tax expense 1,172828644
Net income$1,966
$1,409$1,216
Financial ratios
ROE51%40%51%
Overhead ratio
646768
Pretax margin ratio
(a)363333
(a)Pretax margin represents Income before income tax expense divided by Total net rev-
enue,which is a measure of pretax performance and another basis by which manage-

ment evaluates its performance and that of its competitors.
2007 compared with 2006 
Net income was a record $2.0 billion,an increase of $557 million,or
40%,from the prior year.Results benefited from record net revenue,

partially offset by higher noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $8.6 billion,an increase of $1.8 billion,or 27%,
from the prior year.Noninterest revenue,primarily fees and commis-

sions,was $7.5 billion,up $1.7 billion,or 29%,largely due to

increased assets under management and higher performance and
placement fees.Net interest income was $1.2 billion,up $189 mil-

lion,or 19%,from the prior year,largely due to higher deposit and

loan balances.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
56JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Institutional revenue grew 28%,to $2.5 billion,due to net asset
inflows and performance fees.Private Bank revenue grew 37%,to

$2.6 billion,due to higher assets under management,performance

and placement fees,and increased loan and deposit balances.Retail
revenue grew 28%,to $2.4 billion,primarily due to market apprecia-

tion and net asset inflows.Private Client Services revenue grew 7%,

to $1.1 billion,reflecting higher assets under management and higher
deposit balances.
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $18 million,compared
with a benefit of $28 million in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $5.5 billion,an increase of $937 million,or
20%,from the prior year.The increase was due primarily to higher

performance-based compensation expense and investments in all

business segments.
2006 compared with 2005
Net income was a record $1.4 billion,up $193 million,or 16%,from

the prior year.Improved results were driven by increased revenue off-

set partially by higher performance-based compensation expense,

incremental expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R and the

absence of a tax credit recognized in the prior year.
Total net revenue was a record $6.8 billion,up $1.1 billion,or 20%,

from the prior year.Noninterest revenue,principally fees and commis-

sions,of $5.8 billion was up $1.2 billion,or 27%.This increase was

due largely to increased assets under management and higher per-
formance and placement fees.Net interest income was $971 million,

down $110 million,or 10%,from the prior year.The decline was due

primarily to narrower spreads on deposit products and the absence of
BrownCo,partially offset by higher deposit and loan balances.
Institutional revenue grew 41%,to $2.0 billion,due to net asset

inflows and higher performance fees.Private Bank revenue grew

13%,to $1.9 billion,due to increased placement activity,higher

asset management fees and higher deposit balances,partially offset

by narrower average spreads on deposits.Retail revenue grew 22%,

to $1.9 billion,primarily due to net asset inflows,partially offset by

the sale of BrownCo.Private Client Services revenue decreased 1%,

to $1.0 billion,as higher deposit and loan balances were more than

offset by narrower average deposit and loan spreads.
Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $28 million compared with
a benefit of $56 million in the prior year.The 2006 benefit reflects a

high level of recoveries and stable credit quality.
Total noninterest expense of $4.6 billion was up $718 million,or
19%,from the prior year.The increase was due to higher perform-

ance-based compensation,incremental expense related to SFAS

123R,increased salaries and benefits related to business growth,and

higher minority interest expense related to Highbridge,partially offset

by the absence of BrownCo.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
57Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount,ranking 
data,and where otherwise noted)
200720062005
Revenue by client segmentInstitutional $2,525
$1,972$1,395
Private Bank
2,6051,9071,689
Retail2,4081,8851,544
Private Client Services
1,0971,0231,036
Total net revenue$8,635
$6,787$5,664
Business metricsNumber of:Client advisors1,729#1,506#1,484#
Retirement planning services participants1,501,0001,362,0001,299,000
% of customer assets in 4 & 5 Star Funds(a)55%58%46%
% of AUM in 1
stand 2ndquartiles:(b)1 year57%83%69%
3 years75%77%68%
5 years76%79%74%
Selected balance sheets data (average)
Total assets
$51,882
$43,635$41,599
Loans(c)(d)29,49626,50726,610
Deposits(d)58,86350,60742,123
Equity3,8763,5002,400
Headcount14,799#
13,298#12,127#
Credit data and quality 
statisticsNet charge-offs (recoveries)$(8)
$(19)$23
Nonperforming loans1239104
Allowance for loan losses
112121132
Allowance for lending-related 
commitments764Net charge-off (recovery) rate
(0.03)%(0.07)%0.09%
Allowance for loan losses to 
average loans
0.380.460.50
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans933310127
Nonperforming loans to average loans
0.040.150.39
(a)  Derived from following rating services:Morningstar for the United States;Micropal
for the United Kingdom,Luxembourg,Hong Kong and Taiwan;and Nomura for

Japan.
(b)  Derived from following rating services:Lipper for the United States and Taiwan;

Micropal for the United Kingdom,Luxembourg and Hong Kong;and Nomura for

Japan
.(c)Held-for-investment prime mortgage loans transferred from AM to Treasury within
the Corporate segment during 2007 were $6.5 billion.There were no loans trans-

ferred during 2006 or 2005.Although the loans,together with the responsibility for

the investment management of the portfolio,were transferred to Treasury,the trans-

fer has no material impact on the financial results of AM.
(d)The sale of BrownCo,which closed on November 30,2005,included $3.0 billion in
both loans and deposits.
AM™s client segments comprise the following:
Institutionalbrings comprehensive global investment services Œincluding asset management,pension analytics,asset-liability man-

agement and active risk budgeting strategies Œ to corporate and

public institutions,endowments,foundations,not-for-profit organi-

zations and governments worldwide.
Retailprovides worldwide investment management services andretirement planning and administration through third-party and

direct distribution of a full range of investment vehicles.
The 
Private Bank addresses every facet of wealth management for
ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide,including
investment management,capital markets and risk management,

tax and estate planning,banking,capital raising and specialty-

wealth advisory services.
Private Client Services offers high-net-worth individuals,families
and business owners in the United States comprehensive wealthmanagement solutions,including investment management,capital

markets and risk management,tax and estate planning,banking

and specialty-wealth advisory services.
JPMorgan Asset Management has established two high-

level measures of its overall performance.
ercentage of assets under management in funds rated 4 and 5
stars (3 year).Mutual fund rating services rank funds based on

their risk-adjusted performance over various periods.A 5 star

rating is the best and represents the top 10% of industry wide
ranked funds.A 4 star rating represents the next 22% of industry
wide ranked funds.The worst rating is a 1 star rating.
ercentage of assets under management in first- or second-
quartile funds (one,three and five years).Mutual fund rating

services rank funds according to a peer-based performance 

system,which measures returns according to specific time and

fund classification (small,mid,multi and large cap).
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
58JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Assets under supervision(a) As of or for the year ended December 31,(in billions)
200720062005
Assets by asset classLiquidity(b)$400
$311$238
Fixed income 200175165
Equities & balanced472427370
Alternatives12110074
Total Assets under 
management1,193
1,013847
Custody/brokerage/
administration/deposits
379334302
Total Assets under supervision $1,572
$1,347$1,149
Assets by client segment Institutional(c)$632
$538$481
Private Bank 
201159145
Retail(c)300259169
Private Client Services 
605752
Total Assets under management $1,193
$1,013$847
Institutional(c)$633
$539$484
Private Bank 
433357318
Retail(c)394343245
Private Client Services 
112108102
Total Assets under supervision $1,572
$1,347$1,149
Assets by geographic region
U.S./Canada 
$760
$630$562
International433383285
Total Assets under management$1,193
$1,013$847
U.S./Canada 
$1,032
$889$805
International540458344
Total Assets under supervision$1,572
$1,347$1,149
Mutual fund assets by asset classLiquidity$339
$255$182
Fixed income464645
Equities224206150
Total mutual fund assets$609
$507$377
Assets under management rollforward
Beginning balance,January 1
$1,013
$847$791
Net asset flows:Liquidity78448
Fixed income911Š
Equities,balanced and alternative
283424
Market/performance/other impacts
657724
Ending balance,December 31$1,193
$1,013$847
Assets under supervision rollforward
Beginning balance,January 1
$1,347
$1,149$1,106
Net asset flows14310249
Acquisitions/divestitures
(d)ŠŠ(33)
Market/performance/other impacts
829627
Ending balance,December 31$1,572
$1,347$1,149
(a)Excludes Assets under management of American Century Companies,Inc.,in which
the Firm had a 44% ownership at December 31,2007.
(b)2006 data reflects the reclassification of $19 billion of assets under management
into liquidity from other asset classes.Prior period data were not restated.
(c)In 2006,assets under management of $22 billion from Retirement planning services
has been reclassified from the Institutional client segment to the Retail client seg-
ment in order to be consistent with the revenue by client segment reporting.(d)Reflects the sale of BrownCo ($33 billion) in 2005.
Assets under supervision2007 compared with 2006
Assets under supervision (ﬁAUSﬂ)
were $1.6 trillion,an increase 
of $225 billion,or 17%,from the prior year.Assets under manage-
ment (ﬁAUMﬂ) were $1.2 trillion,up 18%,or $180 billion,from 

the prior year.The increase in AUM was the result of net asset

inflows into liquidity and alternative products and market apprecia-

tion across all segments.Custody,brokerage,administration and

deposit balances were $379 billion,up $45 billion.The Firm also has

a 44% interest in American Century Companies,Inc.,whose AUM

totaled $102 billion and $103 billion at December 31,2007 and

2006,respectively,which are excluded from the AUM above.
2006 compared with 2005
AUS were $1.3 trillion,up 17%,or $198 billion,from the prior year.
AUM were $1.0 trillion,up 20%,or $166 billion,from the prior year.

The increase in AUM was the result of net asset inflows in the Retail

segment,primarily in equity-related products,Institutional segment

flows,primarily in liquidity products and market appreciation.Custody,

brokerage,administration and deposit balances were $334 billion,up

$32 billion.The AUM of American Century Companies,Inc.,totaled

$103 billion and $101 billion at December 31,2006 and 2005,

respectively,which are excluded from the AUM above.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
59CORPORATE
The Corporate sector comprises Private Equity,Treasury,
corporate staff units and expense that is centrally
managed.Private Equity includes the JPMorgan

Partners and ONE Equity Partners businesses.

Treasury manages capital,liquidity,interest rate and

foreign exchange risk and the investment portfolio

for the Firm.The corporate staff units include Central
Technology
and Operations,Internal Audit,Executive
Office,Finance,Human Resources,Marketing &

Communications,Legal & Compliance,Corporate 
RealEstate and General Services,Risk Management
andStrategy & Development.Other centrally managed

expense includes the Firm™s occupancy and pension-

related expense,net of allocations to the business.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
RevenuePrincipal transactions
(a)(b)$4,552
$1,181$1,527
Securities gains (losses)39(608)(1,487)
All other income(c)4414851,583
Noninterest revenue5,032
1,0581,623
Net interest income (expense)(787)
(1,044)(2,756)
Total net revenue4,245
14(1,133)
Provision for credit losses(11)(1)10
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense(b)2,7542,6263,148
Noncompensation expense(d)3,0302,3575,965
Merger costs209305722
Subtotal5,9935,2889,835
Net expense allocated to other businesses(4,231)(4,141)(4,505)
Total noninterest expense1,762
1,1475,330
Income (loss) from continuing 
operations before income tax 

expense2,494
(1,132)(6,473)
Income tax expense (benefit)(e)719(1,179)(2,690)
Income (loss) from continuing 
operations
1,77547(3,783)
Income from discontinued
operations
(f)Š795229
Net income (loss)$1,775
$842$(3,554)
(a)The Firm adopted SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2007.See Note 4 on pages
111Œ118 of this Annual Report for additional information.
(b)2007 included the classification of certain private equity carried interest from
Principal transactions to Compensation expense.
(c)Included a gain of $1.3 billion on the sale of BrownCo in 2005.

(d)Included insurance recoveries related to material legal proceedings of $512 million
and $208 million in 2006 and 2005,respectively.Includes litigation reserve charges

of $2.8 billion in 2005.(e)Includes tax benefits recognized upon resolution of tax audits.
(f) Included a $622 million gain from the sale of selected corporate trust businesses in
the fourth quarter of 2006.2007 compared with 2006
Net income was $1.8 billion,compared with $842 million in the prior
year,benefiting from strong Private Equity gains,partially offset by

higher expense.Prior-year results also included Income from discon-

tinued operations of $795 million,which included a one-time gain of

$622 million from the sale of selected corporate trust businesses.
Net income for Private Equity was $2.2 billion,compared with $627
million in the prior year.Total net revenue was $4.0 billion,an

increase of $2.8 billion.The increase was driven by Private Equity

gains of $4.1 billion,compared with $1.3 billion,reflecting a higher

level of gains and the change in classification of carried interest to
compensation expense.Total noninterest expense was $589 million,

an increase of $422 million from the prior year.The increase was driv-

en by higher compensation expense reflecting the change in the clas-
sification of carried interest.Net loss for Treasury and Other Corporate was $390 million compared
with a net loss of $580 million in the prior year.Treasury and Other

Corporate Total net revenue was $278 million,an increase of $1.4

billion.Revenue benefited from net security gains compared with net

security losses in the prior year and improved net interest spread.
Total noninterest expense was $1.2 billion,an increase of $193 mil-

lion from the prior year.The increase reflected higher net litigation

expense driven by credit card-related litigation and the absence of
prior-year insurance recoveries related to certain material litigation

partially offset by lower compensation expense.
2006 compared with 2005
On August 1,2006,the buyout and growth equity professionals of

JPMorgan Partners (ﬁJPMPﬂ) formed an independent firm,CCMP

Capital,LLC (ﬁCCMPﬂ),and the venture professionals separately

formed an independent firm,Panorama Capital,LLC (ﬁPanoramaﬂ).

The investment professionals of CCMP and Panorama continue to 

manage the former JPMP investments pursuant to a management
agreement with the Firm.On October 1,2006,the Firm completed the exchange of selected cor-

porate trust businesses,including trustee,paying agent,loan agency

and document management services,for the consumer,business bank-

ing and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York.

These corporate trust businesses,which were previously reported in TSS,

are now reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented

within Corporate.The related balance sheet and income statement

activity were transferred to the Corporate segment commencing with

the second quarter of 2006.Periods prior to the second quarter of 2006

were revised to reflect this transfer.
Net income was $842 million compared with a net loss of $3.6 bil-

lion in the prior year,benefiting from lower net litigation costs and
improved Treasury investment performance.Prior-year results included
a $752 million gain on the sale of BrownCo.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
60JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Private equity portfolio2007 compared with 2006 
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December 31,
2007,was $7.2 billion,up from $6.1 billion from December 31,

2006.The portfolio increase was due primarily to favorable valuation

adjustments on nonpublic investments and new investments,partially

offset by sales activity.The portfolio represented 9.2% of the Firm™s

stockholders™ equity less goodwill at December 31,2007,up from

8.6% at December 31,2006.
2006 compared with 2005
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio declined by $95 mil-

lion to $6.1 billion as of December 31,2006.This decline was due

primarily to sales,partially offset by new investment activity.The port-

folio represented 8.6% of the Firm™s stockholder equity less goodwill

at December 31,2006,down from 9.7% at December 31,2005.
Selected income statement and balance sheet data Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Treasury
Securities gains (losses)(a)$37
$(619)$(1,486)
Investment portfolio (average)
85,51763,36146,520
Investment portfolio (ending)
76,20082,09130,741
Mortgage loans (average)
(b)29,118ŠŠMortgage loans (ending)(b)36,942ŠŠPrivate equity Realized gains$2,312
$1,223$1,969
Unrealized gains (losses)1,607(1)(410)
Total direct investments
(c)3,9191,2221,559
Third-party fund investments 
16577132
Total private equity gains
(d)$4,084
$1,299$1,691
Private equity portfolio information(e)Direct investments
Publicly held securitiesCarrying value
$390
$587$479
Cost288451403
Quoted public value
536831683
Privately held direct 
securitiesCarrying value
5,9144,6925,028
Cost4,8675,7956,463
Third-party fund 
investments(f)Carrying value
849802669
Cost1,0761,0801,003
Total private equity 
portfolio ŒCarrying value
$7,153
$6,081$6,176
Total private equity portfolio ŒCost
$6,231
$7,326$7,869
(a)Losses reflected repositioning of the Treasury investment securities portfolio.Excludes
gains/losses on securities used to manage risks associated with MSRs.
(b)In 2007,held-for-investment prime mortgage loans were transferred from RFS and
AM.The transfer has no material impact on the financial results of Corporate.
(c)Private equity gains include a fair value adjustment related to the adoption of SFAS
157 in the first quarter of 2007.(d)Included in Principal transactions revenue.

(e)For more information on the Firm™s policies regarding the valuation of the private
equity portfolio,see Note 4 on pages 111Œ118 of this Annual Report.
(f)Unfunded commitments to third-party equity funds were $881 million,$589 million
and $242 million at December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,respectively.
Net income for Private Equity was $627 million,compared with $821
million in the prior year.Net revenue was $1.1 billion,a decrease of

$379 million.The decrease was driven by lower Private Equity gains.

Noninterest expense was $167 million,a decrease of $78 million

from the prior year.
Net loss for Treasury and Other Corporate was $580 million com-
pared with a net loss of $4.6 billion.Treasury and Other Corporate

net revenue was a negative $1.1 billion compared with negative

$2.7 billion.The improvement reflected higher net interest income,

which was driven by an improved net interest spread,an increase in

AFS securities and lower security losses.Prior-year results included a

gain of $1.3 billion on the sale of BrownCo.Noninterest expense

was $980 million,a decrease of $4.1 billion from the prior year.

Insurance recoveries relating to certain material litigation were $512

million in 2006,while the prior-year results included a material litiga-

tion charge of $2.8 billion and related insurance recoveries of $208

million.Merger costs were $305 million,compared with $722 million

in the prior year.
Discontinued operations include the results of operations of selected
corporate trust businesses that were sold to The Bank of New York on
October 1,2006.Prior to the sale,the selected corporate trust busi-
nesses produced $173 million of Income from discontinued opera-

tions in 2006,compared with $229 million in the prior year.Income

from discontinued operations for 2006 also included a one-time gain

of $622 million related to the sale of these businesses.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except headcount)
200720062005
Total net revenue
Private equity
(a)(b)$3,967
$1,142$1,521
Treasury and Corporate other
(c)278(1,128)(2,654)
Total net revenue$4,245
$14$(1,133)
Net income (loss)Private equity
(a)$2,165
$627$821
Treasury and Corporate 
other(c)(d)(e)(260)(391)(4,156)
Merger costs(130)(189)(448)
Income (loss) from continuing 
operations
1,77547(3,783)
Income from discontinued  
operations (after-tax)
(f)Š795229
Total net income (loss)$1,775
$842$(3,554)
Headcount22,512#23,242#30,666#
(a)The Firm adopted SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2007.See Note 4 on pages
111Œ118 of this Annual Report for additional information.
(b)2007 included the classification of certain private equity carried interest from Net rev-
enue to Compensation expense.
(c)Included a gain of $752 million ($1.3 billion pretax) on the sale of BrownCo in 2005.

(d)Included insurance recoveries (after-tax) related to material legal proceedings of $317
million and $129 million in 2006 and 2005,respectively.Includes litigation reserve

charges (after-tax) of $1.7 billion in 2005.
(e)Includes tax benefits recognized upon resolution of tax audits.
(f)Included a $622 million gain from the sale of selected corporate trust business in the

fourth quarter of 2006.Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
61BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS
Condensed consolidated balance sheet dataDecember 31,(in millions)
20072006AssetsCash and due from banks$40,144
$40,412
Deposits with banks 11,46613,547Federal funds sold and securities purchased 
under resale agreements170,897140,524Securities borrowed84,18473,688Trading assets:
Debt and equity instruments414,273310,137Derivative receivables
77,13655,601Securities85,45091,975Loans519,374483,127Allowance for loan losses
(9,234)(7,279)Loans,net of Allowance for loan losses510,140
475,848Accrued interest and accounts receivable  
24,82322,891Goodwill  45,27045,186Other intangible assets14,73114,852Other assets 
83,63366,859Total assets$1,562,147
$1,351,520
LiabilitiesDeposits$740,728
$638,788
Federal funds purchased and securities sold 
under repurchase agreements154,398162,173Commercial paper and other borrowed funds78,43136,902Trading liabilities:
Debt and equity instruments89,16290,488Derivative payables
68,70557,469Accounts payable,accrued expense and
other liabilities94,47688,096Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
14,01616,184Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities199,010145,630Total liabilities1,438,926
1,235,730Stockholders™ equity123,221
115,790Total liabilities and stockholders™ 
equity$1,562,147
$1,351,520
Consolidated balance sheets overviewThe following is a discussion of the significant changes in the

Consolidated balance sheet items from December 31,2006.
Deposits with banks;Federal funds sold and securities pur-
chased under resale agreements;Securities borrowed;

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repur-

chase agreements

The Firm utilizes Deposits with banks,Federal funds sold and securi-

ties purchased under resale agreements,Securities borrowed,and

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agree-

ments as part of its liquidity management activities to manage the
Firm™s cash positions and risk-based capital requirements,and to

support the Firm™s trading activities and its risk management activi-

ties.In particular,Federal funds purchased and securities sold under

repurchase agreements are used as short-term funding sources.The

increase from December 31,2006,in Federal funds sold and securi-

ties purchased under resale agreements and Securities borrowedreflected a higher level of funds that were available for short-term
investment opportunities and a higher volume of securities needed
for trading purposes.The decrease in Federal funds purchased and

securities sold under repurchase agreements was due primarily to a

lower level of AFS securities in Treasury,partly offset by higher

amounts to fund trading positions.For additional information on the

Firm™s Liquidity risk management,see pages 70Œ73 of this Annual

Report.Trading assets and liabilities Œ debt and equity instruments
The Firm uses debt and equity trading instruments for both market-

making and proprietary risk-taking activities.These instruments con-

sist primarily of fixed income securities,including government and

corporate debt;equity,including convertible securities;loans;and

physical commodities inventories.The increase in trading assets 

from December 31,2006,was due primarily to the more active 

capital markets environment,with growth in client-driven market-

making activities,particularly for debt securities.In addition,a total

of $33.8 billion of loans are now accounted for at fair value under

SFAS 159 and classified as trading assets at December 31,2007.The

trading assets accounted for under SFAS 159 are primarily certain

prime mortgage loans warehoused by RFS for sale or securitization

purposes,and loans warehoused by IB.For additional information,
refer to Note 5 and Note 6 on pages 119Œ121 and 122,respectively,
of this Annual Report.
Trading assets and liabilities Œ derivative receivables and
payables
The Firm utilizes various interest rate,foreign exchange,equity,credit

and commodity derivatives for market-making,proprietary risk-taking

and risk-management purposes.Both derivative receivables and

derivative payables increased from December 31,2006,primarily

driven by increases in credit derivative and interest rate products due

to increased credit spreads and lower interest rates,respectively,as

well as a decline in the U.S.dollar.For additional information,refer

to Derivative contracts,Note 6 and Note 30 on pages 79Œ82,122

and 168Œ169,respectively,of this Annual Report.
SecuritiesAlmost all of the Firm™s securities portfolio is classified as AFS and is

used primarily to manage the Firm™s exposure to interest rate move-

ments.The AFS portfolio decreased from December 31,2006,prima-

rily due to net sales and maturities of securities in Treasury.For addi-

tional information related to securities,refer to the Corporate seg-

ment discussion and to Note 12 on pages 59Œ60 and 134Œ136,
respectively,of this Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
62JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Loans and Allowance for loan losses
The Firm provides loans to customers of all sizes,from large corporate
and institutional clients to individual consumers.The Firm manages

the risk/reward relationship of each portfolio and discourages the

retention of loan assets that do not generate a positive return above

the cost of risk-adjusted capital.Loans increased $36.2 billion,or

8%,from December 31,2006,primarily due to business growth in

wholesale lending activity,mainly in IB,CB and AM;organic growth

in the Home Equity portfolio;and the decision during the third quar-

ter of 2007 to retain rather than sell subprime mortgage loans.These

increases were offset partly by a decline in consumer loans as certain
prime mortgage loans originated after January 1,2007,are classified

as Trading assets and accounted for at fair value under SFAS 159.In

addition,certain loans warehoused in the IB were transferred to

Trading assets on January 1,2007,as part of the adoption of SFAS

159.The Allowance for loan losses increased $2.0 billion,or 27%,

from December 31,2006.The consumer and wholesale components

of the allowance increased $1.5 billion and $443 million,respectively.

The increase in the consumer portion of the allowance was due to

increases of $1.2 billion in RFS,reflecting higher estimated losses

related to home equity and subprime mortgage loans,and $231 mil-

lion in CS,reflecting a higher level of estimated net charge-offs in the

credit card portfolio.The increase in the wholesale portion of the

allowance was primarily due to loan growth in IB and CB.For a more

detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the Allowance for loan

losses,refer to Credit risk management on pages 73Œ89 of this

Annual Report.Goodwill
Goodwill arises from business combinations and represents the

excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the net fair value

amounts assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed.The

increase in Goodwill primarily resulted from certain acquisitions by

TSS and CS,and currency translation adjustments on the Sears

Canada credit card acquisition.Partially offsetting these increases

was a reduction resulting from the adoption of FIN 48,as well as

tax-related purchase accounting adjustments.For additional informa-

tion,see Notes 18 and 26 on pages 154Œ157 and 164Œ165,respec-

tively,of this Annual Report.
Other intangible assetsThe Firm™s other intangible assets consist of MSRs,purchased credit

card relationships,other credit card-related intangibles,core deposit

intangibles and all other intangibles.The slight decline in Other

intangible assets reflects amortization,primarily related to credit card

business-related intangibles and core deposit intangibles.This

decrease was offset largely by an increase in the MSR asset,as addi-

tions from loan sales and purchases were offset partially by fair value

changes reflecting modeled servicing portfolio runoff and negative
fair value adjustments,as declining interest rates during the second

half of 2007 drove an increase in estimated future prepayments.For

additional information on MSRs and other intangible assets,see

RFS™s Mortgage Banking business discussion and Note 18 on pages

46Œ47 and 154Œ157 of this Annual Report.
DepositsThe Firm™s deposits represent a liability to customers,both retail and
wholesale,for funds held on their behalf.Deposits are generally clas-

sified by location (U.S.and non-U.S.),whether they are interest or

noninterest-bearing,and by type (i.e.,demand,money market deposit

accounts,savings,time or negotiable order of withdrawal accounts).

Deposits help provide a stable and consistent source of funding for
the Firm.Deposits rose from December 31,2006,primarily due to a

net increase in wholesale interest-bearing deposits in TSS,AM and

CB,driven by growth in business volumes.For more information on

deposits,refer to the RFS,TSS,and AM segment discussions and the

Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 43Œ48,54Œ55,

56Œ58,and 70Œ73,respectively,of this Annual Report.For more

information on wholesale liability balances,including deposits,refer

to the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 52Œ53 and 54Œ55,

respectively,of this Annual Report.
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds
The Firm utilizes Commercial paper and other borrowed funds as 

part of its liquidity management activities to cover short-term funding
needs,and in connection with TSS™s cash management product

whereby clients™ excess funds,primarily in TSS,CB and RFS,are trans-

ferred into commercial paper overnight sweep accounts.The increases

in Commercial paper and other borrowed funds were due primarily 
to the Firm™s ongoing efforts to build further liquidity,growth in the

volume of liability balances in sweep accounts and higher short-term
requirements to fund trading positions.For additional information on

the Firm™s Liquidity risk management,see pages 70Œ73 of this Annual

Report.Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities

The Firm utilizes Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt

securities to build liquidity as part of its longer-term liquidity and

capital management activities.Long-term debt and trust preferred

capital debt securities increased from December 31,2006,reflecting

net new issuances,including client-driven structured notes in the IB.

For additional information on the Firm™s long-term debt activities,see

the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 70Œ73 of this
Annual Report.Stockholders™ equity
Total stockholders™ equity increased $7.4 billion from year-end 2006

to $123.2 billion at December 31,2007.The increase was primarily

the result of Net income for 2007,net shares issued under the Firm™s

employee stock-based compensation plans,and the cumulative effect

on Retained earnings of changes in accounting principles of $915
million.These were offset partially by stock repurchases and the dec-

laration of cash dividends.The $915 million increase in Retained

earnings resulting from the adoption of new accounting principles
primarily reflected $287 million related to SFAS 157,$199 million

related to SFAS 159 and $436 million related to FIN 48 in 

the first quarter of 2007.For a further discussion of capital,see the

Capital management section that follows;for a further discussion of
the accounting changes,see Accounting and Reporting Developments
on page 99,Note 4 on pages 111Œ118,Note 5 on pages 119Œ121

and Note 26 on pages 164Œ165 of this Form Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
63CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Firm™s capital management framework is intended to ensure that
there is capital sufficient to support the underlying risks of the Firm™s

business activities and to maintain ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂstatus under reg-

ulatory requirements.In addition,the Firm holds capital above these

requirements in amounts deemed appropriate to achieve manage-

ment™s regulatory and debt rating objectives.The process of assigning

equity to the lines of business is integrated into the Firm™s capital

framework and is overseen by ALCO.
Line of business equityThe Firm™s framework for allocating capital is based upon the follow-

ing objectives:
ate firmwide capital management activities with capital 
management activities within each of the lines of business;and

provide comparability with peer firms for each of the lines of business.
Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm
believes the business would require if it were operating independ-

ently,incorporating sufficient capital to address economic risk

measures,regulatory capital requirements and capital levels for sim-

ilarly rated peers.
Capital is also allocated to each line of businessfor,among other things,goodwill associated with such line of busi-

ness™ acquisitions since the Merger.In management™s view,this

methodology assigns responsibility to the lines of business to gener-
ate returns on the amount of capital supporting acquisition-related
goodwill.At the time of the Merger,the Firm assigned to the

Corporate segment an amount of equity capital equal to the then-

current book value of goodwill from and prior to the Merger.
Returnon equity is measured and internal targets for expected returns are
established as a key measure of a business segment™s performance.
The Firm may revise its equity capital-allocation methodology again in

the future.
In accordance with SFAS 142,the lines of business perform the

required goodwill impairment testing.For a further discussion of

goodwill and impairment testing,see Critical accounting estimates

and Note 18 on pages 96Œ98 and 154Œ157,respectively,of this

Annual Report.Line of business equityYearly Average
(in billions)20072006Investment Bank$21.0
$20.8
Retail Financial Services16.014.6Card Services14.114.1Commercial Banking6.55.7Treasury & Securities Services
3.02.3Asset Management3.93.5Corporate
(a)54.249.7Total common stockholders™ equity$118.7
$110.7
(a)2007 and 2006 include $41.7 billion of equity to offset goodwill and $12.5 billion
and $8.0 billion,respectively,of equity,primarily related to Treasury,Private Equity

and the Corporate Pension Plan.
Economic risk capitalJPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the risks
underlying the Firm™s business activities,utilizing internal risk-assess-

ment methodologies.The Firm measures economic capital primarily

based upon four risk factors:credit risk,market risk,operational risk

and private equity risk,principally for the Firm™s private equity business.
Economic risk capitalYearly Average
(in billions)20072006Credit risk(a)$30.0
$26.7
Market risk
9.59.9Operational risk
5.65.7Private equity risk
3.73.4Economic risk capital48.8
45.7Goodwill45.243.9Other(b)24.721.1Total common stockholders™ equity$118.7
$110.7
(a)Incorporates a change to the wholesale credit risk methodology,which has been
modified to include a through-the-cycle adjustment (described below).The prior 

period has been revised to reflect this methodology change.
(b)Reflects additional capital required,in management™s view,to meet its regulatory 
and debt rating objectives.
Credit risk capital 
Credit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses
(IB,CB,TSS and AM) and consumer businesses (RFS and CS).
Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined
in terms of unexpected credit losses,both from defaults and declines

in the portfolio value due to credit deterioration,measured over a

one-year period at a confidence level consistent with the level of capitalization necessary to achieve a targeted
ﬁAAﬂcredit rating.
Unexpected losses are losses in excess of those for which provisions
for credit losses are maintained.The capital methodology is based

upon several principal drivers of credit risk:exposure at default (or

loan-equivalent amount),default likelihood,credit spreads,loss

severity and portfolio correlation.In 2007,an updated capital methodology was introduced for credit

exposures in the IB and for certain non-IB credit exposures related to
publicly traded entities.The updated methodology includes a through-

the-cycle adjustment to capital levels that reflects capital that would 
be needed across the various credit cycles.Capital methodologies

employed across all wholesale businesses now employ a through-the-

cycle approach.Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is based upon productand other relevant risk segmentation.Actual segment level default and

severity experience are used to estimate unexpected losses for a one-
year horizon at a confidence level equivalent to the targeted ﬁAAﬂcredit
rating.Statistical results for certain segments or portfolios are adjusted

to ensure that capital is consistent with external benchmarks,such as

subordination levels on market transactions or capital held at represen-

tative monoline competitors,where appropriate.
Global Reports LLC
Market risk capital
The Firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that cap-
ital should reflect the risk of loss in the value of portfolios and financial

instruments caused by adverse movements in market variables,such as

interest and foreign exchange rates,credit spreads,securities prices

and commodities prices.Daily Value-at-Risk (ﬁVARﬂ),monthly stress-

test results and other factors are used to determine appropriate capital

levels.The Firm allocates market risk capital to each business segment

according to a formula that weights that segment™s VAR and stress-test

exposures.See Market risk management on pages 90Œ94of this

Annual Report for more information about these market risk measures.
Operational risk capital

Capital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using

a risk-based capital allocation methodology which estimates opera-

tional risk on a bottom-up basis.The operational risk capital model is

based upon actual losses and potential scenario-based stress losses,

with adjustments to the capital calculation to reflect changes in the
quality of the control environment or the use of risk-transfer prod-

ucts.The Firm believes its model is consistent with the new Basel II

Framework and expects to propose it for qualification under the

Basel II advanced measurement approach for operational risk.
Private equity risk capital
Capital is allocated to privately and publicly held securities,third-party
fund investments and commitments in the Private Equity portfolio to

cover the potential loss associated with a decline in equity markets

and related asset devaluations.In addition to negative market fluctua-

tions,potential losses in private equity investment portfolios can be

magnified by liquidity risk.The capital allocation for the Private Equity
portfolio is based upon measurement of the loss experience suffered
bythe Firm and other market participants over a prolonged period of

adverse equity market conditions.
Regulatory capital The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the ﬁFederal

Reserve Boardﬂ) establishes capital requirements,including well-capital-

ized standards for the consolidated financial holding company.The Office

of the Comptroller of the Currency establishes similar capital require-
ments and standards for the Firm™s national banks,including JPMorgan

Chase Bank,N.A.,and Chase Bank USA,N.A.
JPMorgan Chase maintained a well-capitalized position,based upon

Tier1
and Total capital ratios at December 31,2007 and 2006 as 
indicated in the tables below.
Capital ratios
Well-capitalized
December 31,20072006ratios
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.4%8.7%6.0%
Total capital ratio
12.612.310.0
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.06.2NA
Total stockholders™ equity to assets
7.98.6NA
Risk-based capital components and assetsDecember 31,(in millions)
20072006Total Tier 1 capital
$88,746
$81,055
Total Tier 2 capital
43,49634,210Total capital$132,242
$115,265
Risk-weighted assets$1,051,879
$935,909
Total adjusted average assets
1,473,5411,308,699Tier 1 capital was $88.7 billion at December 31,2007,compared 
with $81.1 billion at December 31,2006,an increase of $7.7 billion.

The increase was due primarily to net income of $15.4 billion;net

issuances of common stock under the Firm™s employee stock-based

compensation plans of $3.9 billion;net issuances of $2.0 billion of

qualifying trust preferred capital debt securities;and the after-tax
effects of the adoption of new accounting principles reflecting increasesof $287 million for SFAS 157,$199 million for SFAS 159 and $436

million for FIN 48.These increases were partially offset by decreases in

Stockholders™ equity net of Accumulated other comprehensive income

(loss) due to common stock repurchases of $8.2 billion and dividends
declared of $5.2 billion.In addition,the change in capital reflects the

exclusion of an $882 million (after-tax) valuation adjustment to certain

liabilities pursuant to SFAS 157 to reflect the credit quality of the Firm.

Additional information regarding the Firm™s capital ratios and the fed-

eral regulatory capital standards to which it is subject is presented in

Note 28 on pages 166Œ167 of this Annual Report.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
64JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
65Basel II    
The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the federal
banking agencies follow the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on

Banking Supervision.In 2004,the Basel Committee published a revi-

sion to the Accord (ﬁBasel IIﬂ).The goal of the new Basel II Framework

is to provide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and pro-
mote enhanced risk management practices among large,internationally

active banking organizations.U.S.banking regulators published a final

Basel II rule in December 2007,which will require JPMorgan Chase to

implement Basel II at the holding company level,as well as at certain

key U.S.bank subsidiaries.
Prior to full implementation of the new Basel II Framework,JPMorgan
Chase will be required to complete a qualification period of four con-
secutive quarters during which it will need to demonstrate that it

meets the requirements of the new rule to the satisfaction of its pri-

mary U.S.banking regulators.The U.S.implementation timetable con-

sists of the qualification period,starting any time between April 1,

2008,and April 1,2010,followed by a minimum transition period of

three years.During the transition period Basel II risk-based capital
requirements cannot fall below certain floors based on current (ﬁBasel lﬂ)regulations.JPMorgan Chase expects to be in compliance with all rele-

vant Basel II rules within the established timelines.In addition,the Firm

will continue to adopt Basel II rules in certain non-U.S.jurisdictions,

as required.
DividendsThe Firm™s common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan Chase™s

earnings outlook,desired dividend payout ratios,need to maintain an

adequate capital level and alternative investment opportunities.The

Firm continues to target a dividend payout ratio of approximately

30Œ40% of Net income over time.On April 17,2007,the Board of

Directors increased the quarterly dividend to $0.38 per share.
The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based

upon reported Net income
.Common dividend payout ratio
Year ended December 31,
200720062005
Common dividend payout ratio
34%34%57%
For information regarding restrictions on JPMorgan Chase™s ability to pay
dividends,see Note 27 on pages 165Œ166 of this Annual Report.
Stock repurchases
On April 17,2007,the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase

program that authorizes the repurchase of up to $10.0 billion of the

Firm™s common 
shares,which supersedes an $8.0 billion stock repur-
chase program approved in 2006.
The $10.0 billion authorization
includes shares to be repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm™s
employee stock-based plans.The actual number of shares repurchased

is subject to various factors,including market conditions;legal consid-

erations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity;the

Firm™s capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles);

internal capital generation;and alternative potential investment oppor-

tunities.The
repurchase program does not include specific price targets
or timetables,may be executed through open market purchases or pri-

vately negotiated transactions,or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs,and

may be suspended at any time.
For the year ended December 31,2007,under the respective stock

repurchase programs then in effect,the Firm repurchased a total of 168
million shares for $8.2 billion at an average price per share of $48.60.

During 2006,under the respective stock repurchase programs then in

effect,the Firm repurchased 91 million shares for $3.9 billion at an aver-

age price per share of $43.41.As of December 31,2007,$6.2 billion of authorized repurchase capacity

remained under the current stock repurchase program.
The Firm has determined that it may,from time to time,enter into writ-

ten trading 
plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 to facilitate the repurchase of common stock in accordance with
the repurchase program.A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the

Firm to repurchase shares during periods when it would not otherwise
be repurchasing common stock Œ for example,during internal trading

ﬁblack-out periods.ﬂAll purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be

made according to a predefined plan that is established when the Firm
is not aware of material nonpublic information.
For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm™s equity

securities,see Part II,Item 5,Market for registrant™s common equity,

related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities,

on pages 13Œ14 of JPMorgan Chase™s 2007 Form 10-K.
Global Reports LLC
OFFŒBALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS
in the SPE in order to provide liquidity.These commitments are
included in other unfunded commitments to extend credit and asset
purchase agreements,as shown in the Off-balance sheet lending-

related financial instruments and guarantees table on page 68 of

this Annual Report.
As noted above,the Firm is involved with three types of SPEs.
A summary of each type of SPE follows.
Multi-seller conduitsThe Firm helps customers meet their financing needs by providing

access to the commercial paper markets through VIEs known as multi-

seller conduits.Multi-seller conduit entities are separate bankruptcy-

remote entities that purchase interests in,and make loans secured by,

pools of receivables and other financial assets pursuant to agreements

with customers of the Firm.The conduits fund their purchases and

loans through the issuance of highly rated commercial paper to third-

party investors.The primary source of repayment of the commercial

paper is the cash flow from the pools of assets.JPMorgan Chase

receives fees related to the structuring of multi-seller conduit transac-

tions and receives compensation from the multi-seller conduits for its
role as administrative agent,liquidity provider,and provider of pro-

gram-wide credit enhancement.
Investor intermediation
As a financial intermediary,the Firm creates certain types of VIEs and
also structures transactions,typically derivative structures,with these

VIEs to meet investor needs.The Firm may also provide liquidity and

other support.The risks inherent in derivative instruments or liquidity

commitments are managed similarly to other credit,market and liq-

uidity risks to which the Firm is exposed.The principal types of VIEs

the Firm uses in these structuring activities are municipal bond vehi-
cles,credit-linked note vehicles and collateralized debt obligations

vehicles.
Loan Securitizations
JPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety of its consumer and

wholesale loans,including warehouse loans that are classified in

Trading assets,through SPEs that are structured to meet the defini-

tion of a QSPE (as discussed in Note 1 on page 108 of this Annual

Report).The primary purpose of these vehicles is to meet investor

needs and to generate liquidity for the Firm through the sale of the

loans to the QSPEs.Consumer activities include securitizations of res-

idential real estate,credit card,automobile and education loans that

are originated or purchased by RFS and CS.Wholesale activities

include securitizations of purchased residential real estate loans and
commercial loans (primarily real estate-related) originated by the IB.
Consolidation and consolidation sensitivity analysis on capitalFor more information regarding these programs and the Firm™s other

SPEs,as well as the Firm™s consolidation analysis for these programs,

see Note 16 and Note 17 on pages 139Œ145 and 146Œ154,respec-

tively,of this Annual Report.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
66JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of off-balance sheet
arrangements,including special purpose entities (ﬁSPEsﬂ) and lend-

ing-related financial instruments (e.g.,commitments and guarantees).
Special-purpose entitiesThe basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE.

The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to

investors in the form of commercial paper,short-term asset-backed

notes,medium-term notes and other forms of interest.SPEs are gen-

erally structured to insulate investors from claims on the SPE™s assets

by creditors of other entities,including the creditors of the seller of

the assets.
SPEs are an important part of the financial markets,providing market
liquidity by facilitating investors™ access to specific portfolios of
assets and risks.These arrangements are integral to the markets for

mortgage-backed securities,commercial paper and other asset-

backed securities.
JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity for itself and itsclients by securitizing financial assets,and by creating investment

products for clients.The Firm is involved with SPEs through multi-

seller conduits and investor intermediation activities,and as a result

of its loan securitizations,through qualifying special purpose entities

(ﬁQSPEsﬂ).This discussion focuses mostly on multi-seller conduits

and investor intermediation.For a detailed discussion of all SPEs

with which the Firm is involved,and the related accounting,see

Note 1 on page 108,Note 16 on pages 139Œ145 and Note 17 on

pages 146Œ154 of this Annual Report.
The Firm holds capital,as deemed appropriate,against all SPE-relat-
ed transactions and related exposures,such as derivative transactions

and lending-related commitments and guarantees.
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any
SPE transaction,and its policies require that transactions with SPEs

be conducted at arm™s length and reflect market pricing.Consistent

with this policy,no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest

in SPEs with which the Firm is involved where such investment
would violate the Firm™s Code of Conduct.These rules prohibit

employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf of the Firm in
transactions with which they or their family have any significant

financial interest.
Implications of a credit rating downgrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs,the Firm could be required

to provide funding if the short-term credit rating of JPMorgan Chase

Bank,N.A.,was downgraded below specific levels,primarily ﬁP-1ﬂ,

ﬁA-1ﬂand ﬁF1ﬂfor Moody™s,Standard & Poor™s and Fitch,respec-

tively.The amount of these liquidity commitments was $94.0 billion

and $74.4 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.

Alternatively,if JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.,were downgraded,the

Firm could be replaced by another liquidity provider in lieu of provid-
ing funding under the liquidity commitment,or in certain circum-

stances,the Firm could facilitate the sale or refinancing of the assets
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
67Special-purpose entities revenueThe following table summarizes certain revenue information related to
consolidated and nonconsolidated VIEs and QSPEs with which the

Firm has significant involvement.The revenue reported in the table

below primarily represents contractual servicing and credit fee income

(i.e.,for income from acting as administrator,structurer,liquidity

provider).It does not include mark-to-market gains and losses from

changes in the fair value of trading positions (such as derivative trans-

actions) entered into with VIEs.Those gains and losses are recorded in

Principal transactions revenue.
Revenue from VIEs and QSPEs
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
VIEs:(a)Multi-seller conduits$ 187(b)$160$ 172
Investor intermediation334950
Total VIEs220
209222
QSPEs3,479
3,1832,940
Total$3,699
$3,392$3,162
(a) Includes revenue associated with consolidated VIEs and significant nonconsolidated
VIEs.
(b) Excludes the markdown on subprime CDO assets that was recorded 
in Principal trans-
action revenue during the fourth quarter of 2007.American Securitization Forum subprime adjustable rate 
mortgage loans modificationsIn December 2007,the American Securitization Forum (ﬁASFﬂ) issued

the ﬁStreamlined Foreclosure and Loss Avoidance Framework for

Securitized Subprime Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loansﬂ(ﬁthe

Frameworkﬂ).The Framework provides guidance for servicers to

streamline evaluation procedures of borrowers with certain subprime
adjustable rate mortgage (ﬁARMﬂ) loans to more quickly and efficiently
provide modification of such loans with terms that are more appropriate
for the individual needs of such borrowers.
The Framework applies to all
first-lien subprime ARM loans that have a fixed rate of interest for an

initial period of 36 months or less,are included in securitized pools,

were originated between January 1,2005,and July 31,2007,and

have an initial interest rate reset date between January 1,2008,and

July 31,2010.JPMorgan Chase has adopted the Framework,and it

expects to begin modifying eligible loans by the end of the first quar-
ter of 2008.For additional discussion of the Framework,see Note 16

on page 145 of this Annual Report
.OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial
instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g.,
commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its

customers.The contractual amount of these financial instruments

represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty

draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required to fulfill its obli-

gation under the guarantee,and the counterparty subsequently fail

to perform according to the terms of the contract.Most of these

commitments and guarantees expire without a default occurring or

without being drawn.As a result,the total contractual amount of

these instruments is not,in the Firm™s view,representative of its actu-

al future credit exposure or funding requirements.Further,certain

commitments,primarily related to consumer financings,are cance-

lable,upon notice,at the option of the Firm.For further discussion of

lending-related commitments and guarantees and the Firm™s

accounting for them,see Credit risk management on pages 73Œ89

and Note 31 on pages 170Œ173 of this Annual Report.
Contractual cash obligations
In the normal course of business,the Firm enters into various con-

tractual obligations that may require future cash payments.

Commitments for future cash expenditures primarily include contracts

to purchase future services and capital expenditures related to real
estateŒrelated obligations and equipment.The accompanying table summarizes,by remaining maturity,
JPMorgan Chase™s offŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instru-

ments and significant contractual cash obligations at December 31,

2007.Contractual purchases and capital expenditures in the table

below reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally

enforceable contracts with terms that are both fixed and deter-

minable.Excluded from the following table are a number of obliga-

tions to be settled in cash,primarily in under one year.These obliga-

tions are reflected on the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets and

include Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase

agreements;Commercial paper;Other borrowed funds;purchases of

Debt and equity instruments;Derivative payables;and certain pur-

chases of instruments that resulted in settlement failures.Also

excluded are contingent payments associated with certain acquisi-
tions that could not be estimated.For discussion regarding Long-

term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities,see Note 21 on

pages 159Œ160 of this Annual Report.For discussion regarding oper-

ating leases,see Note 29 on page 167 of this Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
68JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The following table presents maturity information for off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees.
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
By remaining maturity at December 31,20072006(in millions)20082009-20102011-2012After 2012
Total
Total
Lending-related
Consumer(a)$740,080$2,852$3,222$69,782$815,936
$747,535
Wholesale:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(b)(c)(d)(e)97,45961,71073,72518,060250,954
229,204Asset purchase agreements(f)28,52145,08714,1712,32690,105
67,529Standby letters of credit and guarantees
(c)(g)(h)24,97026,70440,7927,756100,222
89,132Other letters of credit(c)4,46379210975,371
5,559Total wholesale155,413134,293128,79728,149446,652
391,424Total lending-related $895,493$137,145$132,019$97,931$1,262,588
$1,138,959
Other guarantees
Securities lending guarantees
(i)$ 385,758$Š$Š$Š$385,758
$318,095
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
(j)26,5418,54324,55625,62285,262
71,531Contractual cash obligations
By remaining maturity at December 31,(in millions)Time deposits 
$243,923$3,246$2,108$600$249,877
$204,349
Long-term debt28,94155,79736,04263,082183,862
133,421Trust preferred capital debt securities
ŠŠŠ15,14815,148
12,209FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests(k)35792,0705,0257,209
8,336Operating leases
(l)1,0401,9431,6446,28110,908
11,029Contractual purchases and capital expenditures
1,5975761311302,434
1,584Obligations under affinity and co-brand programs
1,0922,2312,079755,477
6,115Other liabilities(m)6909379173,1125,656
5,302Total $277,318$64,809$44,991$93,453$480,571
$382,345
(a)Included credit card and home equity lending-related commitments of $714.8 billion and $74.2 billion,respectively,at Decembe
r 31,2007;and $657.1 billion and $69.6 billion,
respectively,at December 31,2006.These amounts for credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total 
available credit for these products.The Firm has
not experienced,and does not anticipate,that all available lines of credit for these products will be utilized at the same time
.The Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by pro-
viding the borrower prior notice or,in some cases,without notice as permitted by law.
(b)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $38.4 billion and $39.0 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,w
hich are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with
the Federal Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.See the Glossary of terms,on page 181 of this Annual Report,f
or the Firm™s definition of advised lines of credit.
(c)Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $28.3 billion and $32.8 billion at December 31,2007 and 20
06,respectively.
(d) Excludes unfunded commitments for private third-party equity investments of $881 million and $589 million at December 31,20
07 and 2006,respectively.Also excludes unfunded
commitments for other equity investments of $903 million and $943 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(e)Included in Other unfunded commitments to extend credit are commitments to investment and noninvestment grade counterparties in
 connection with leveraged acquisitions of $8.2 billion 
atDecember 31,2007
.(f)Largely represents asset purchase agreements to the Firm™s administered multi-seller,asset-backed commercial paper conduits.
The maturity is based upon the weighted-average life of the
underlying assets in the SPE,which are primarily asset purchase agreements to the Firm™s administered multi-seller 
asset-backed commercial paper conduits.It also includes $1.1 billion
and $1.4 billion of asset purchase agreements to other third-party entities at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(g)JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $15.8 billion and $13.5 billion of these arrangements at December 31,2007 and 200
6,respectively.
(h)Included unused commitments to issue standby letters of credit of $50.7 billion and $45.7 billion at December 31,2007 and 20
06,respectively.
(i)Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $390.5 billion and $317.9 billio
n at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(j)Represents notional amounts of derivatives qualifying as guarantees.For further discussion of guarantees,see Note 31 on page
s 170Œ173 of this Annual Report.
(k)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.

(l)Excluded benefit of noncancelable sublease rentals of $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectivel
y.(m)Included deferred annuity contracts.Excludes contributions for pension and other postretirement benefits plans,if any,as these contribut
ions are not reasonably estimable at this time.
Also excluded are unrecognized tax benefits of $4.8 billion at December 31,2007,as the timing and amount of future cash payment
s is not determinable at this time.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
69RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase™s business activities.The
Firm™s risk management framework and governance structure are

intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoing manage-
ment of the major risks inherent in the Firm™s business activities.The

Firm™s ability to properly identify,measure,monitor and report risk is

critical to both its soundness and profitability.
The Firm™s exposure to risk through its daily
business dealings,including lending,trading and capital markets

activities,is identified and aggregated through the Firm™s risk man-

agement infrastructure.
Risk measurement:The Firm measures risk using a variety of method-
ologies,including calculating probable loss,unexpected loss and

value-at-risk,and by conducting stress tests and making comparisons

to external benchmarks.Measurement models and related assump-

tions are routinely reviewed with the goal of ensuring that the Firm™s

risk estimates are reasonable and reflect underlying positions.
The Firm™s risk management policies and
procedures incorporate risk mitigation strategies and include

approval limits by customer,product,industry,country and busi-

ness.These limits are monitored on a daily,weekly and monthly

basis,as appropriate.
Risk reporting:Risk reporting is executed on a line of business and
consolidated basis.This information is reported to management on a

daily,weekly and monthly basis,as appropriate.There are eight

major risk types identified in the business activities of the Firm:liq-

uidity risk,credit risk,market risk,interest rate risk,private equity

risk,operational risk,legal and fiduciary risk,and reputation risk.
Risk governance
The Firm™s risk governance structure starts with each line of business

being responsible for managing its own risks.Each line of business

works closely with Risk Management through its own risk committeeand,in most cases,its own chief risk officer to manage risk.Each line
of business risk committee is responsible for decisions regarding the
business™ risk strategy,policies and controls.
Overlaying the line of business risk management are four corporate
functions with risk managementŒrelated responsibilities,including

Treasury,the Chief Investment Office,Legal and Compliance and Risk

Management.Risk Management is headed by the Firm™s Chief Risk Officer,who is a

member of the Firm™s Operating Committee and who reports to the

Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors,primarily through

the Board™s Risk Policy Committee.Risk Management is responsible

for providing a firmwide function of risk management and controls.

Within Risk Management are units responsible for credit risk,market

risk,operational risk and private equity risk,as well as Risk

Management Services and Risk Technology and Operations.Risk

Management Services is responsible for risk policy and methodology,

risk reporting and risk education;and Risk Technology and Operations

is responsible for building the information technology infrastructure

used to monitor and manage risk.Treasury and the Chief Investment Office are responsible for measur-

ing,monitoring,reporting and managing the Firm™s liquidity,interest

rate and foreign exchange risk.
Legal and Compliance has oversight for legal and fiduciary risk.
In addition to the risk committees of the lines of business and the above-referenced corporate functions,the Firm also has an

Investment Committee,an ALCO and two risk committees,namely,

the Risk Working Group and the Markets Committee.The members

of these committees are composed of senior management of the

Firm,including representatives of line of business,Risk Management,

Finance and other senior executives.
Investment CommitteeAsset-Liability Committee (ALCO)Markets Committee
Risk Working Group (RWG)
Operating Committee
Treasury and Chief Investment Office (Liquidity,Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk) 
RFS Risk CommitteeCard ServicesRisk CommitteeTSSRisk CommitteeAssetManagementRisk CommitteeCommercialBankingRisk CommitteeInvestmentBank Risk Committee CIORisk CommitteeRisk Management (Market,Credit,Operational and Private Equity Risk)
Legal and Compliance (Legal and Fiduciary Risk)Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
70JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The Investment Committee oversees global merger and acquisition
activities undertaken by JPMorgan Chase for its own account that

fall outside the scope of the Firm™s private equity and other principal

finance activities.
The Asset-Liability Committee is responsible for approving the Firm™s
liquidity policy,including contingency funding planning and exposure

to SPEs (and any required liquidity support by the Firm of such SPEs).
The Asset-Liability Committee also oversees the Firm™s capital man-

agement and funds transfer pricing policy (through which lines of

business ﬁtransferﬂinterest and foreign exchange risk to Treasury in

the Corporate segment).
The Risk Working Group meets monthly to review issues such as risk
policy,risk methodology,Basel II and regulatory issues and topics

referred to it by any line of business risk committee.The Markets

Committee,chaired by the Chief Executive Officer,meets weekly to
review and determine appropriate courses of action with respect tosignificant risk matters,including but not limited to:limits;credit,

market and operational risk;large,high risk transactions;and hedg-

ing strategies.
The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of risk management,
principally through the Board™s Risk Policy Committee and Audit

Committee.The Risk Policy Committee oversees senior management

risk-related responsibilities,including reviewing management policies

and performance against these policies and related benchmarks.The

Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of guidelines and poli-
cies that govern the process by which risk assessment and manage-
ment is undertaken.In addition,the Audit Committee reviews with

management the system of internal controls and financial reporting

that is relied upon to provide reasonable assurance of compliance

with the Firm™s operational risk management processes.
LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT 
The goal of liquidity risk management is to ensure that cost-effective
funding is available to meet actual and contingent liquidity needs

over time.
JPMorgan Chase uses a centralized approach for liquidity risk man-
agement.Global funding is managed by Treasury,using regional

expertise as appropriate.Management believes that a centralized

framework maximizes liquidity access,minimizes funding costs and

permits global identification and coordination of liquidity risk.GovernanceALCO approves and oversees the execution of the Firm™s liquidity

policy and contingency funding plan.Treasury formulates the Firm™s

liquidity and contingency planning strategies and is responsible for

measuring,monitoring,reporting and managing the Firm™s liquidity

risk profile.
Liquidity monitoring and recent actions 
Treasury monitors historical liquidity trends,tracks historical and
prospective on- and off-balance sheet liquidity obligations,identifies

and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals to permit

early detection of liquidity issues,and manages contingency planning

(including identification and testing of various company-specific and

market-driven stress scenarios).Various tools,which together con-

tribute to an overall liquidity perspective,are used to monitor and

manage liquidity.These include analysis of the timing of liquidity

sources versus liquidity uses (i.e.,funding gaps) over periods ranging

from overnight to one year;management of debt and capital issuance

to ensure that the illiquid portion of the balance sheet can be funded
by equity,long-term debt,trust preferred capital debt securities and

deposits the Firm believes to be stable;and assessment of the Firm™s

capacity to raise incremental unsecured and secured funding.
Liquidity of the parent holding company and its nonbank subsidiaries
is monitored separately from the Firm™s bank subsidiaries.At the par-

ent holding company level,long-term funding is managed to ensure

that the parent holding company has sufficient liquidity to cover its
obligations and those of its nonbank subsidiaries within the next 12
months.For bank subsidiaries,the focus of liquidity risk management

is on maintenance of unsecured and secured funding capacity suffi-
cient to meet on- and off-balance sheet obligations.
An extension of liquidity management is the Firm™s contingency fund-
ing plan.The goal of the plan is to ensure appropriate liquidity dur-

ing normal and stress periods.The plan considers various temporary

and long-term stress scenarios where access to unsecured funding 
is severely limited or nonexistent,taking into account both on- and

off-balance sheet exposures,and separately evaluates access to

funds by the parent holding company,JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.,

Chase Bank USA,N.A.,and J.P.Morgan Securities Inc.
In response to the market turmoil in the latter half of 2007,
JPMorgan Chase took various actions to strengthen the Firm™s liquid-

ity position.In anticipation of possible incremental funding require-

ments that could have resulted from draws under unfunded revolving

credit facilities and/or potential consolidation or purchase of assets
from VIEs,the parent holding company increased issuance of com-

mercial paper,long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securi-

ties,and bank subsidiaries increased retail and wholesale unsecured

funding liabilities.In addition,JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.,main-

tained sufficient secured borrowing capacity,when aggregated with

unsecured funding sources,to cover anticipated on- and off-balance

sheet obligations of bank subsidiaries.
As of December 31,2007,the Firm™s liquidity position remained
strong based upon its liquidity metrics.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
71Funding Sources of funds
Management uses a variety of unsecured and secured funding

sources to generate liquidity,taking into consideration,among other

factors,market condi
tions,prevailing interest rates,liquidity needs
and the desired maturity profile of liabilities.Markets are evaluated
on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriate global balance of
unsecured and secured funding at favorable rates.The Firm™s ability

to generate funding from a broad range of sources in a variety of

geographic locations enhances financial flexibility and limits depend-

ence on any one source.Diversification of funding is an important

component of the Firm™s liquidity management strategy.
Deposits held by the RFS,CB,TSS and AM lines of business are gen-
erally a consistent source of unsecured funding for JPMorgan Chase

Bank,N.A.As of December 31,2007,total deposits for the Firm

were $740.7 billion.A significant portion of the Firm™s deposits are

retail deposits,which are less sensitive to interest rate changes and

therefore are considered more stable than market-based wholesale

deposits.The Firm also benefits from stable wholesale liability bal-

ances originated by CB,TSS and AM through the normal course of

business.Such liability balances include deposits that are swept to

onŒbalance sheet liabilities (e.g.,Commercial paper,Federal funds

purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements).These

liability balances are also a stable and consistent source of funding
due to the nature of the businesses from which they are generated.

For further discussions of deposit and liability balance trends,see the

discussion of the results for the Firm™s business segments and the

Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 40Œ58 and 61Œ62,respectively,of

this Annual Report.
Additional sources of unsecured funds include a variety of short- and
long-term instruments,including federal funds purchased,commer-

cial paper,bank notes,long-term debt and trust preferred capital

debt securities.Decisions concerning timing of issuance and the

tenor of liabilities are based upon relative costs,general market con-

ditions,prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted

liquidity profile.
Funding flexibility is also provided by the Firm™s ability to access
secured funding from the repurchase and asset securitization mar-

kets.The Firm maintains reserves of unencumbered liquid securities

that can be financed to generate liquidity.The ability to obtain collat-

eralized financing against liquid securities is dependent on prevailing

market conditions.The ability to securitize loans,and the associated

gains on those securitizations,are principally dependent upon the

credit quality and yields of the assets securitized and are generally

not dependent upon the credit ratings of the issuing entity.

Transactions between the Firm and its securitization structures are

reflected in JPMorgan Chase™s consolidated financial statements and

are discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

These relationships generally include retained interests in securitiza-

tion trusts,liquidity facilities and derivative transactions.For further

details,see OffŒbalance sheet arrangements and contractual cash

obligations,Note 16 and Note 31 on pages 66Œ68,139Œ145 and

170Œ173,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Bank subsidiaries™ access to the Federal Reserve Account Window is an

additional source of secured funding;however,management does not

view this as a primary means of funding the Firm™s bank subsidiaries.
Issuance
During 2007,JPMorgan Chase issued $95.1 billion of long-term debt

and trust preferred capital debt securities.These issuances included

$52.2 billion of IB structured notes,the issuances of which are gener-

ally client-driven and not for funding or capital management purposes,

as the proceeds from such transactions are generally used to purchase

securities to mitigate the risk associated with structured note exposure.

The issuances of long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securi-

ties were offset partially by $49.4 billion of long-term debt and trust
preferred capital debt securities that matured or were redeemed during
2007,including IB structured notes.The increase in Treasury-issued

long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities was used pri-

marily to fund certain illiquid assets held by the Parent company and

to build liquidity.During 2007,Commercial paper increased $30.7 bil-

lion and Other borrowed funds increased $10.8 billion.The growth in

both Commercial paper and Other borrowed funds was used to build

liquidity further by increasing the amounts held of liquid securities and
of overnight investments that may be readily converted to cash.In

addition,during 2007,the Firm securitized $28.9 billion of residential

mortgage loans,$21.2 billion of credit card loans and $1.2 billion of

education loans.The Firm did not securitize any auto loans during

2007.For further discussion of loan securitizations,see Note 16 on

pages 139Œ145 of this Annual Report.
In connection with the issuance of certain of its trust preferred capital
debt securities,the Firm has entered into Replacement Capital

Covenants (ﬁRCCsﬂ) granting certain rights to the holders of ﬁcovered

debt,ﬂas defined in the RCCs,that prohibit the repayment,redemption

or purchase of the trust preferred capital debt securities except,with

limited exceptions,to the extent that JPMorgan Chase has received

specified amounts of proceeds from the sale of certain qualifying securi-

ties.Currently the Firm™s covered debt is its 5.875% Junior Subordinated

Deferrable Interest Debentures,Series O,due in 2035.For more informa-

tion regarding these covenants,reference is made to the respective

RCCs entered into by the Firm in connection with the issuances of such
trust preferred capital debt securities,which are filed with the U.S.

Securities and Exchange Commission under cover of Forms 8-K.
Cash flowsFor the years ended December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,Cash and

due from banks decreased $268 million,and increased $3.7 billion

and $1.5 billion,respectively.The following discussion highlights the

major activities and transactions that affected JPMorgan Chase™s cash

flows during 2007,2006 and 2005.
Cash Flows from Operating ActivitiesFor the years ended December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,net cash

used in operating activities was $110.6 billion,$49.6 billion and

$30.2 billion,respectively.JPMorgan Chase™s operating assets and lia-

bilities support the Firm™s capital markets and lending activities,includ-

ing the origination or purchase of loans initially designated as held-
for-sale.During each of the three years ended December 31,2007,net

cash was used to fund loans held-for-sale primarily in the IB and RFS.

In 2007,there was a significant decline in cash flows from IB loan
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
72JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
originations/purchases and sale/securitization activities as a result ofthe difficult wholesale securitization market and capital markets for

leveraged financings,which were affected by a significant deteriora-

tion in liquidity in the credit markets in the second half of 2007.Cash

flows in 2007 associated with RFS residential mortgage activities grew
reflecting an increase in originations.The amount and timing of cash

flows related to the Firm™s operating activities may vary significantly in

the normal course of business as a result of the level of client-driven
activities,market conditions and trading strategies.Management

believes cash flows from operations,available cash balances and the

Firm™s ability to generate cash through short- and long-term borrow-

ings will be sufficient to fund the Firm™s operating liquidity needs.
Cash Flows from Investing ActivitiesThe Firm™s investing activities primarily involve AFS securities,loans ini-

tially designated as held-for-investment and Federal funds sold and

securities purchased under resale agreements.
For the year ended December 31,2007,net cash of $73.1 billion was

used in investing activities,primarily to fund purchases in Treasury™s

AFS securities portfolio to manage the Firm™s exposure to interest rate

movements;net additions to the wholesale retained loan portfolios in

the IB,CB and AM,mainly as a result of business growth;a net

increase in the consumer retained loan portfolio,primarily reflecting

growth in RFS in home equity loans and net additions to RFS™s sub-

prime mortgage loans portfolio,which was affected by management™s

decision in the third quarter to retain (rather than sell) new subprime

mortgages,and growth in prime mortgage loans originated by RFS and

AM (and held in Corporate) that cannot be sold to U.S.government

agencies or U.S.government-sponsored enterprises;and increases in

securities purchased under resale agreements as a result of a higher

level of cash available for short-term investment opportunities in con-

nection with Treasury™s efforts to build the Firm™s liquidity.These net

uses of cash were partially offset by cash proceeds received from sales

and maturities of AFS securities;and credit card,residential mortgage,

education and wholesale loan sales and securitization activities,which

grew in 2007 despite the difficult conditions in the credit markets.
For the year ended December 31,2006,net cash of $99.6 billion was
used in investing activities.Net cash was invested to fund net additions

to the retained wholesale loan portfolio,mainly resulting from capital

markets activity in IB leveraged financings;increases in CS loans

reflecting strong organic growth;net additions in retail home equity

loans;the acquisition of private-label credit card portfolios from Kohl™s,

BP and Pier 1 Imports,Inc.;the acquisition of Collegiate Funding

Services,and Treasury purchases of AFS securities in connection with

repositioning the portfolio in response to changes in interest rates.

These uses of cash were partially offset by cash proceeds provided

from credit card,residential mortgage,auto and wholesale loan sales

and securitization activities;sales and maturities of AFS securities;the

net decline in auto loans and leases,which was caused partially by

management™s decision to de-emphasize vehicle leasing;and the sale

of the insurance business at the beginning of the second quarter.
For the year ended December 31,2005,net cash of $12.9 billion

was used in investing activities,primarily attributable to growth in

consumer loans,primarily home equity and in CS,reflecting growth

in new account originations and the acquisition of the Sears Canada
credit card business,partially offset by securitization activity and a

decline in auto loans reflecting a difficult auto lending market.Net

cash was generated by the Treasury investment securities portfolio

primarily from maturities of securities,as purchases and sales of

securities essentially offset each other.
Cash Flows from Financing ActivitiesThe Firm™s financing activities primarily reflect transactions involving

customer deposits and long-term debt (including client-driven struc-
tured notes in the IB),and its common stock and preferred stock.
In 2007,net cash provided by financing activities was $183.0 billion
due to a net increase in wholesale deposits from growth in business
volumes,in particular,interest-bearing deposits at TSS,AM and CB;

net issuances by Treasury of Long-term debt and trust preferred capital

debt securities primarily to fund certain illiquid assets held by the
Parent company and to build liquidity and by the IB from client-driven

structured notes transactions;and growth in Commercial paper

issuances and Other borrowed funds in Treasury due to growth in the

volume of liability balances in sweep accounts,in TSS and CB,higher

short-term requirements to fund trading positions and to further build

liquidity.Cash was used to repurchase common stock and to pay divi-

dends on common stock,including an increase in the quarterly divi-

dend in the second quarter of 2007.In 2006,net cash provided by financing activities was $152.7 billion

due to net cash received from growth in deposits,reflecting new retail

account acquisitions and the ongoing expansion of the retail branch

distribution network;higher wholesale business volumes;increases in

securities sold under repurchase agreements to fund trading positions

and higher AFS securities positions in Treasury;and net issuances of

Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities.The net cash

provided was offset partially by the payment of cash dividends on stock

and common stock repurchases.
In 2005,net cash provided by financing activities was $45.1 billion due to:
growth in deposits,reflecting new retail account acquisitions,the

ongoing expansion of the retail branch distribution network and higher

wholesale business volumes;and net new issuances of Long-term debt

and trust preferred capital debt securities;offset partially by the pay-

ment of cash dividends and common stock repurchases.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
73CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 
Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default.The
Firm provides credit (for example,through loans,lending-related com-

mitments and derivatives) to customers of all sizes,from large corpo-

rate clients to the individual consumer.The Firm manages the

risk/reward relationship of each credit extension and discourages the

retention of assets that do not generate a positive return above the

cost of the Firm™s risk-adjusted capital.In addition,credit risk man-

agement includes the distribution of the Firm™s wholesale syndicated

loan originations into the marketplace (primarily to IB clients),with

retained exposure held by the Firm averaging less than 10%.

Wholesale loans generated by CB and AM are generally retained on

the balance sheet.With regard to the consumer credit market,the

Firm focuses on creating a portfolio that is diversified from both a
product and a geographic perspective.Within the mortgage business,

originated loans are either retained in the mortgage portfolio,or

securitized and sold selectively to U.S.government agencies and U.S.

government-sponsored enterprises.
Credit risk organization
Credit risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer and
implemented within the lines of business.The Firm™s credit risk man-

agement governance consists of the following functions:amework 
calculating the allowance for credit losses and ensuring appropriate
credit risk-based capital management assigning and managing credit authorities in connection with the
approval of all credit exposure 


Risk identificationThe Firm is exposed to credit risk through lending and capital markets

activities.Credit risk management works in partnership with the busi-

ness segments in identifying and aggregating exposures across all
lines of business.
Risk measurement
To measure credit risk,the Firm employs several methodologies for

estimating the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default.Losses

generated by consumer loans are more predictable than wholesale

losses,but are subject to cyclical and seasonal factors.Although the

frequency of loss is higher on consumer loans than on wholesale
loans,the severity of loss is typically lower and more manageable on

a portfolio basis.As a result of these differences,methodologies for

measuring credit risk vary depending on several factors,including

type of asset (e.g.,consumer installment versus wholesale loan),risk

measurement parameters (e.g.,delinquency status and credit bureau

score versus wholesale risk rating) and risk management and collec-

tion processes (e.g.,retail collection center versus centrally managed

workout groups).Credit risk measurement is based upon the amount

of exposure should the obligor or the counterparty default,the proba-
On February 14,2007,S&P raised the senior long-term debt ratings on
JPMorgan Chase & Co.and the principal bank subsidiaries to ﬁAA-ﬂ

and ﬁAAﬂ,respectively,from ﬁA+ﬂand ﬁAA-ﬂ,respectively.S&P also

raised the short-term debt rating of JPMorgan Chase & Co.to ﬁA-1+ﬂ

from ﬁA-1ﬂ.
On February 16,2007,Fitch raised the senior long-term
debt ratings on JPMorgan Chase & Co.and the principal bank sub-

sidiaries to ﬁAA-ﬂfrom ﬁA+ﬂ.Fitch also raised the short-term debt rat-

ing of JPMorgan Chase & Co.to ﬁF1+ﬂfrom ﬁF1ﬂ.On March 2,

2007,Moody™s raised the senior long-term debt ratings on JPMorgan
Chase & Co.and the operating bank subsidiaries to ﬁAa2ﬂand ﬁAaaﬂ,

respectively,f
rom ﬁAa3ﬂand ﬁAa2ﬂ,respectively.
The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by credit

ratings.A reduction in these ratings could have an adverse effect on the

Firm™s access to liquidity sources,increase the cost of funds,trigger

additional collateral requirements and decrease the number of investors

and counterparties willing to lend.Key factors in maintaining high credit
ratings include a 
stable and diverse earnings stream,leading market
positions,strong capital ratios,strong credit quality and risk manage-

ment controls,diverse funding sources and disciplined liquidity
monitor-ing procedures.
If the Firm™s ratings were downgraded by one notch,the Firm esti-

mates the incremental cost of funds and the potential loss of funding
to be negligible.Additionally,the Firm estimates the additional fund-

ing requirements for VIEs and other third-party commitments would

not be material.Currently,the Firm believes a downgrade is unlikely.

For additional information on the impact of a credit ratings down-

grade on the funding requirements for VIEs,and on derivatives and

collateral agreements,see Special-purpose entities on pages 66Œ67

and Ratings profile of derivative receivables mark-to-market

(ﬁMTMﬂ) on page 81,of this Annual Report.
Credit ratings     

The credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase™s parent holding company and each of its significant banking subsidiaries as of December 3
1,2007,were as
follows.
Short-term debtSenior long-term debt
Moody™sS&PFitchMoody™sS&PFitch
JPMorgan Chase & Co.P-1A-1+F1+Aa2AA-AA-
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.P-1
A-1+F1+AaaAAAA-
Chase Bank USA,N.A.P-1A-1+F1+AaaAAAA-
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
74JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
bility of default and the loss severity given a default event.Based
upon these factors and related market-based inputs,the Firm esti-

mates both probable and unexpected losses for the wholesale and
consumer portfolios.Probable losses,reflected in the Provision for

credit losses,primarily are based upon statistical estimates of credit

losses as a result of obligor or counterparty default.However,proba-

ble losses are not the sole indicators of risk.If losses were entirely

predictable,the probable loss rate could be factored into pricing and

covered as a normal and recurring cost of doing business.Unexpected

losses,reflected in the allocation of credit risk capital,represent the

potential volatility of actual losses relative to the probable level of
losses.Risk measurement for the wholesale portfolio is assessed pri-

marily on a risk-rated basis;for the consumer portfolio,it is assessed

primarily on a credit-scored basis.
Risk-rated exposureFor portfolios that are risk-rated (generally held in IB,CB,TSS and

AM),probable and unexpected loss calculations are based upon esti-

mates of probability of default and loss given default.Probability of

default is the expected default calculated on an obligor basis.Loss

given default is an estimate of losses that are based upon collateral

and structural support for each credit facility.Calculations and

assumptions are based upon management information systems and
methodologies which are under continual review.Risk ratings are

assigned and reviewed on an ongoing basis by Credit Risk
Management and revised,if needed,to reflect the borrowers™ current

risk profiles and the related collateral and structural positions.
Credit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS and CS),probable

loss is based upon a statistical analysis of inherent losses over dis-
crete periods of time.Probable losses are estimated using sophisticat-

ed portfolio modeling,credit scoring and decision-support tools to

project credit risks and establish underwriting standards.In addition,

common measures of credit quality derived from historical loss experi-
ence are used to predict consumer losses.Other risk characteristics

evaluated include recent loss experience in the portfolios,changes in

origination sources,portfolio seasoning,loss severity and underlying

credit practices,including charge-off policies.These analyses are

applied to the Firm™s current portfolios in order to estimate delinquen-

cies and severity of losses,which determine the amount of probable

losses.These factors and analyses are updated on a quarterly basis.
Risk monitoringThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to

preserve the independence and integrity of extending credit and are
included to ensure credit risks are assessed accurately,approved

properly,monitored regularly and managed actively at both the trans-

action and portfolio levels.The policy framework establishes credit

approval authorities,concentration limits,risk-rating methodologies,

portfolio review parameters and guidelines for management of dis-

tressed exposure.Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly on both

an aggregate portfolio level and on an individual customer basis.For

consumer credit risk,the key focus items are trends and concentra-

tions at the portfolio level,where potential problems can be remedied

through changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines.

Consumer Credit Risk Management monitors trends against business
expectations and industry benchmarks.
In order to meet credit risk management objectives,the Firm seeks to
maintain a risk profile that is diverse in terms of borrower,product

type,industry and geographic concentration.Management of the

Firm™s wholesale exposure is accomplished through loan syndication

and participations,loan sales,securitizations,credit derivatives,use of

master netting agreements and collateral and other risk-reduction

techniques,which are further discussed in the following risk sections.
Risk reporting
To enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making,aggregate

credit exposure,credit metric forecasts,hold-limit exceptions and risk

profile changes are reported regularly to senior credit risk manage-
ment.Detailed portfolio reporting of industry,customer and geo-

graphic concentrations occurs monthly,and the appropriateness of

the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by senior management at

least on a quarterly basis.Through the risk reporting and governance

structure,credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided regularly

to,and discussed with,senior management,as mentioned on page

69 of this Annual Report.
2007 Credit risk overview
Despite the volatile capital markets environment in the second half of
2007,the wholesale portfolio overall experienced continued low levels
of nonperforming loans and criticized assets.However,in the second

half of 2007,credit market liquidity levels declined significantly,which

negatively affected loan syndication markets,resulting in an increase

in funded and unfunded exposures,particularly related to leveraged

lending,held on the balance sheet.This exposure is 
diversified acrossclients and industries and is performing,but subject to market volatility

and potentially further writedowns.
In response to these events,the
Firm has strengthened
underwriting standards with respect to its loansyndications and leveraged lending,consistent with evolving market

practice.For additional information on unfunded leverage acquisitions

related to loan syndications,see Note 31 on pages 170Œ173 of this

Annual Report.In 2007,the domestic consumer credit environment was also nega-
tively affected by the deterioration in residential real estate valua-

tions,leading to increased credit losses primarily for Home Equity and

Subprime Mortgage loans with multiple risk elements (ﬁrisk layered
loansﬂ).The Firm responded to these changes in the credit environ-

ment through the elimination of certain products,changes and

enhancements to credit underwriting criteria and refinement of pric-
ing and risk management models.
More detailed discussion of the domestic consumer credit environ-ment can be found on page 84 of this Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
75CREDIT PORTFOLIO     
Total credit portfolio
Nonperforming Average annual
As of or for the year ended December 31,Credit exposureassets
(i)Net charge-offsnet charge-off rate
(in millions,except ratios)
20072006200720062007200620072006Total credit portfolio
Loans Œ retained(a)$491,736
$427,876
$3,536
(i)$1,957
(i)$4,538
$3,042
1.00%0.73%Loans held-for-sale
18,89955,25145120ŠŠNANALoans at fair value
8,739Š5ŠŠŠNANALoans Œ reported(a)$519,374
$483,127
$3,586
$2,077
$4,538
$3,042
1.00%0.73%Loans Œ securitized(b)72,70166,950ŠŠ2,3802,2103.433.28Total managed loans
(c)592,075550,0773,5862,0776,9185,2521.331.09Derivative receivables
77,13655,6012936NANANANATotal managed credit-related assets669,211
605,6783,6152,1136,9185,2521.331.09Lending-related commitments(d)(e)1,262,5881,138,959NANANANANANAAssets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA622228NANANANATotal credit portfolio$1,931,799
$1,744,637$4,237
$2,341
$6,918
$5,252
1.33%1.09%Credit derivative hedges notional
(f)$(67,999)
$(50,733)
$(3)
$(16)
NANANANACollateral held against derivatives
(g)(9,824)(6,591)NANANANANANAMemo:Nonperforming Œ purchased(h)Š251NANANANANANA(a)Loans (other than those for which the SFAS 159 fair value option has been elected) are presented net of unearned income and 
net deferred loan fees of $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion atDecember 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(b)Represents securitized credit card receivables.For further discussion of credit card securitizations,see Card Services on pa
ges 49Œ51 of this Annual Report.
(c)Loans past-due 90 days and over and accruing includes credit card receivables
_ reported of $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,and related
credit card securitizations of $1.1 billion and $962 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(d) Included credit card and home equity lending-related commitments of $714.8 billion and $74.2 billion,respectively,at Decemb
er 31,2007;and $657.1 billion and $69.6 billion,
respectively,at December 31,2006.These amounts for credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total 
available credit for these products.The Firm has
not experienced,nor does it anticipate,all available lines of credit being used at the same time.The Firm can reduce or cancel 
these lines of credit by providing the borrower priornotice or,in some cases,without notice as permitted by law.
(e)Included unused advised lines of credit totaling $38.4 billion and $39.0 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,w
hich are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with
the Federal Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(f)  Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used t
o manage the credit exposures;these derivatives do not
qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.Includes $31.1 billion and $22.7 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,
which represents the notional amount of struc-tured portfolio protection;the Firm retains a minimal first risk of loss on this portfolio.
(g) Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.

(h)Represents distressed wholesale loans held-for-sale purchased as part of IB™s proprietary activities,which are excluded from
 nonperforming assets.During the first quarter of 2007,the
Firm elected the fair value option of accounting for this portfolio of nonperforming loans.These loans are classified as Tradin
g assets at December 31,2007.
(i)Excluded nonperforming assets related to (1) loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA pools that
 are insured by U.S.government agencies of $1.5 billion
and $1.2 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,and (2) education loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing
,which are insured by U.S.government agencies
under the Federal Family Education Loan Program,of $279 million and $219 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.Thes
e amounts for GNMA and education loans areexcluded,as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
The following table presents JPMorgan Chase™s credit portfolio as of
December 31,2007 and 2006.Total credit exposure at December 31,

2007,increased $187.2 billion from December 31,2006,reflecting

an increase of $106.1 billion in the wholesale credit portfolio and
$81.1 billion in the consumer credit portfolio as further described in
the following pages.During 2007,lending-related commitments

increased $123.6 billion ($55.2 billion and $68.4 billion in the whole-
sale and consumer portfolios,respectively),managed loans increased

$42.0 billion ($29.3 billion and $12.7 billion in the wholesale and
consumer portfolios,respectively) and derivatives increased $21.5 bil-

lion.Within loans,RFS loans accounted for at lower of cost or fair

value declined,as prime mortgage loans originated with the intent to

sell after January 1,2007,were classified as Trading assets and

accounted for at fair value under SFAS 159.In addition,certain loans
warehoused in IB were transferred to Trading assets on January 1,

2007,as part of the adoption of SFAS 159.Also effective January 1,

2007,$24.7 billion of prime mortgages held-for-investment purposes

were transferred from RFS ($19.4 billion) and AM ($5.3 billion) to the

Corporate sector for risk management purposes.While this transfer

had no impact on the RFS,AM or Corporate financial results,the AM

prime mortgages that were transferred are now reported in consumer

mortgage loans.
In the table below,reported loans include loans accounted for at fair
value and loans held-for-sale,which are carried at lower of cost or

fair value with changes in value recorded in Noninterest revenue.

However,these held-for-sale loans and loans accounted for at fair

value are excluded from the average loan balances used for the net

charge-off rate calculations.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
76JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
WHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO
As of December 31,2007,wholesale exposure (IB,CB,TSS and AM)
increased $106.1 billion from December 31,2006,due to increases

in lending-related commitments of $55.2 billion and loans of $29.3
billion.The increase in overall lending activity was partly due to

growth in leveraged lending funded and unfunded exposures,mainly

in IB.For further discussion of unfunded leveraged exposures,see

Note 31,on pages 170Œ173 of this Annual Report.
Wholesale
As of or for the year ended December 31,Credit exposureNonperforming assets
(e)(in millions)2007200620072006Loans retained(a)$189,427
$161,235
$464
$387
Loans held-for-sale
14,91022,507454Loans at fair value
8,739Š5ŠLoans Œ reported(a)$213,076
$183,742
$514
$391
Derivative receivables
77,13655,6012936Total wholesale credit-related assets290,212
239,343543427Lending-related commitments(b)446,652391,424NANAAssets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA733Total wholesale credit exposure$736,864
$630,767
$616
$430
Credit derivative hedges notional
(c)$(67,999)
$(50,733)
$(3)
$(16)
Collateral held against derivatives
(d)(9,824)(6,591)NANAMemo:Nonperforming Œ purchased(e)Š251NANA(a)As a result of the adoption of SFAS 159 in the first quarter of 2007,certain loans of $11.7 billion were reclassified to tra
ding assets and were excluded from wholesale loans reported.Includes loans greater than or equal to 90 days past due that continue to accrue interest.The principal balance of these loans 
totaled $75 million and $29 million at December 31,2007 and
2006,respectively.
Also see Note 5 on pages 119Œ121and Note 14 on pages 137Œ138of this Annual Report.
(b)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $38.4 billion and $39.0 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,w
hich are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with
the Federal Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(c)Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to 
manage the credit exposures;these derivatives do not qualify
for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
Includes $31.1 billion and $22.7 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,which re
presents the notional amount of structured port-folio protection;the Firm retains a minimal first risk of loss on this portfolio.
(d) Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.

(e)Represents distressed loans held-for-sale purchased as part of IB™s proprietary activities,which are excluded from nonperfor
ming assets.
During the first quarter of 2007,the Firm elected
the fair value option of accounting for this portfolio of nonperforming loans.These loans are classified as Trading assets at D
ecember 31,2007.
Partly offsetting these increases was the first-quarter transfer of
$11.7 billion of loans warehoused in IB to Trading assets upon the

adoption of SFAS 159.
The $21.5 billion Derivative receivables increase from December 31,
2006,was primarily driven by increases in credit derivative and inter-

est rate products due to increased credit spreads and lower interest

rates,respectively,as well as a decline in the U.S.dollar.
Net charge-offs (recoveries) 
Wholesale
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except ratios)
20072006Loans Œ reportedNet charge-offs (recoveries)$72
$(22)
Average annual net charge-off (recovery) rate
(a)0.04%(0.01)%(a)Excludes average wholesale loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value of $18.6 billion
and $22.2 billion for the years ended December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
Net charge-offs (recoveries) do not include gains from sales of non-
performing loans that were sold as shown in the following table.

Gains from these sales were $1 million and $82 million during 2007
and 2006,respectively,which are reflected in Noninterest revenue.
Nonperforming loan activityWholesale
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)20072006Beginning balance$391
$992
Additions1,107480Reductions:Paydowns and other
(576)(578)Charge-offs(185)(186)Returned to performing(136)(133)Sales(87)(184)Total reductions(984)
(1,081)Net additions (reductions)123
(601)Ending balance$514
$391
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
77The following table presents summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale portfolio as of December 31,2007 a
nd 2006.The ratings
scale is based upon the Firm™s internal risk ratings and generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody™s.
Wholesale credit exposureŒ 
maturity and ratings profile
Maturity profile(c)Ratings profileDecember 31,2007
1Œ5Investment-grade (ﬁIGﬂ)Noninvestment-grade
Total %
(in billions,except ratios) <1 yearyears>5 yearsTotalAAA/Aaa to BBB-/Baa3BB+/Ba1 & belowTotalof IG
Loans44%45%11%100%$127$62$18967%
Derivative receivables
17394410064137783
Lending-related commitments355961003806744785
Total excluding loans 
held-for-sale and

loans at fair value36%53%11%100%$571$14271380%
Loans held-for-sale and 
loans at fair value
(a)24Total exposure
$737
Net credit derivative 
hedges notional(b)39%56%5%100%$(61)$(7)$(68)89%
Maturity profile(c)Ratings profileDecember 31,20061Œ5
Investment-grade (ﬁIGﬂ)Noninvestment-grade
Total %
(in billions,except ratios) <1 yearyears>5 yearsTotalAAA/Aaa to BBB-/Baa3BB+/Ba1 & belowTotalof IG
Loans44%41%15%100%$104$57$16165%
Derivative receivables1634501004975688
Lending-related commitments365861003385339186
Total excluding loans 
held-for-sale and 

loans at fair value 
37%51%12%100%$491$11760881%
Loans held-for-sale and  
loans at fair value
(a)23Total exposure
$631
Net credit derivative 
hedges notional(b)16%75%9%100%$(45)$(6)$(51)88%
(a)Loans held-for-sale relate primarily to syndication loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio.During the first
 quarter of 2007,the Firm elected the fair value option of
accounting for loans related to securitization activities,and these loans are classified as Trading assets.
(b)Ratings are based upon the underlying referenced assets.Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold
 of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to
manage the credit exposures;these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.Includes $31.1 billion and $22
.7 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respec-
tively,which represents the notional amount of structured portfolio protection;the Firm retains a minimal risk of losses on thi
s portfolio.
(c)The maturity profile of Loans and lending-related commitments is based upon the remaining contractual maturity.The maturity 
profile of Derivative receivables is based upon the matu-
rity profile of Average exposure.See page 80 of this Annual Report for a further discussion of Average exposure.
Global Reports LLC
Wholesale credit exposure Œ selected industry concentration
Collateral
held againstDecember 31,2007
CreditInvestmentNoninvestment-gradeCreditderivative
(in millions,except ratios)exposure
(d)gradeNoncriticizedCriticizedNet charge-offsderivative hedges
(e)receivables
(f)Top 10 industries
(a)Banks and finance companies$65,28883%$10,385$498$5$(6,368)$(1,793)
Asset managers38,554903,518212Š(293)(2,148)
Real estate38,2955416,6261,07036(2,906)(73)
State and municipal governments31,425985911210(193)(3)
Healthcare30,746844,741246Š(4,241)(10)
Consumer products29,941747,4922395(4,710)(13)
Utilities28,679893,0212121(6,371)(43)
Oil and gas26,082727,166125Š(4,007)Š
Retail and consumer services23,969687,1495503(3,866)(55)
Securities firms and exchanges23,274873,0831Š(467)(1,321)
All other(b)376,9628071,2113,67312(34,577)(4,365)
Total excluding loans
held-for-sale and
loans at fair value$713,21580%$134,983$6,838$72$(67,999)$(9,824)
Loans held-for-sale and  
loans at fair value
(c)23,649Total $736,864
Collateral
held againstDecember 31,2006CreditInvestmentNoninvestment-gradeCreditderivative
(in millions,except ratios)exposure
(d)gradeNoncriticizedCriticizedNet charge-offsderivative hedges
(e)receivables
(f)Top 10 industries
(a)Banks and finance companies$61,79284%$9,733$74$(12)$(7,847)$(1,452)

Asset managers24,570882,95631ŠŠ(750)

Real estate32,1025713,7022439(2,223)(26)

State and municipal governments27,4859866223Š(801)(12)

Healthcare28,998834,618284(1)(3,021)(5)

Consumer products27,114727,32738322(3,308)(14)

Utilities24,938882,929183(6)(4,123)(2)

Oil and gas18,544764,35638Š(2,564)Š

Retail and consumer services22,122706,268278(3)(2,069)(226)

Securities firms and exchanges23,127931,5275Š(784)(1,207)
All other(b)317,4688058,9713,484(31)(23,993)(2,897)
Total excluding loans
held-for-sale and
loans at fair value $608,26081%$113,049$5,026$(22)$(50,733)$(6,591)
Loans held-for-sale and  
loans at fair value
(c)22,507Total 
$630,767
(a)Rankings are based upon exposure at December 31,2007.
(b)For more information on exposures to SPEs included in All other,see Note 17 on pages 146Œ154 of this Annual Report.

(c)Loans held-for-sale relate primarily to syndication loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio.During the first
 quarter of 2007,the Firm elected the fair value option of
accounting for loans related to securitization activities;these loans are classified as Trading assets at December 31,2007.
(d)Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivative hedges and collateral held again
st Derivative receivables or Loans.
(e)Ratings are based upon the underlying referenced assets.Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold
 of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to
manage the credit exposures;these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.Includes $31.1 billion and $22
.7 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respec-
tively,which represents the notional amount of structured portfolio protection;the Firm retains a minimal risk of losses on thi
s portfolio.
(f)Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
78JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Wholesale credit exposure Œ selected industry 
concentration

The Firm focuses on the management and the diversification of its

industry concentrations,with particular attention paid to industries

with actual or potential credit concerns.At December 31,2007,the

top 10 industries to which the Firm is exposed remained unchanged
from December 31,2006.The increases across all industries were
primarily due to portfolio growth.The notable rise in Asset managers
was a result of portfolio growth and the Firm revising its industry

classification during the third quarter of 2007 to better reflect risk
correlations and enhance the Firm™s management of industry risk.

Below are summaries of the top 10 industry concentrations as of

December 31,2007 and 2006.For additional information on industry

concentrations,see Note 32,on pages 173Œ174 of this Annual

Report.Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
79Exposure to this industry grew in 2007 mainly due to
growth in leveraged lending activity,primarily in the IB.On a port-

folio basis,the Firm™s Real estate exposure is well-diversified 

by client,transaction type,geography and property type.

Approximately half of this exposure is to large public and rated

real estate companies and institutions (e.g.,REITS),as well as real

estate loans originated for sale into the commercial mortgage-
backed securities market.CMBS exposure totaled 5% of the cate-

gory at December 31,2007.These positions are actively risk man-

aged.The remaining Real estate exposure is primarily to profes-

sional real estate developers,owners,or service providers and gen-

erally involves real estate leased to third-party tenants.Exposure to

national and regional single-family home builders represents 16%
of the category,down from 21% in 2006,and is considered to be

at a manageable level.The increase in criticized exposure was

largely a result of downgrades to a small group of homebuilders

within the Real estate portfolio.
In 2007,criticized exposure to this
industry increased as a result of downgrades of select portfolio

names.Overall,the majority of the exposure remains rated invest-

ment grade and the portfolio is diversified by client,geography and

product market served.The bigger portfolio names in terms of

exposure tend to be large cap companies with access to capital
markets.For smaller cap clients with more reliance on bank debt,

exposures are often highly structured and/or secured.This industry group,primarily con-
sisting of exposure to commercial banks,is the largest segment of

the Firm™s wholesale credit portfolio.Even though criticized expo-

sures grew in 2007 due to downgrades to select names within the

portfolio,credit quality overall remained high,as 83% of the expo-

sure in this category is rated investment grade.
All other:All other in the wholesale credit exposure concentration
table on page 78 of this Annual Report at December 31,2007

(excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value) included

$377.0 billion of credit exposure to 22 industry segments.Exposures

related to SPEs and high-net-worth individuals were 34% and 14%,
respectively,of this category.SPEs provide secured financing (gener-

ally backed by receivables,loans or bonds on a 
bankruptcy-remote,
nonrecourse or limited-recourse basis) originatedby a diverse groupof companies in industries that are not highly correlated.For further

discussion of SPEs,see Note 17 on pages 146Œ154 of this Annual

Report.The remaining All other exposure is well-diversified across

industries and none comprise more than 3% of total exposure.
Derivative contracts
In the normal course of business,the Firm uses derivative instru-

ments to meet the needs of customers;to generate revenue through

trading activities;to 
manage exposure to fluctuations in interestrates,currencies and other mark
ets;and to manage the Firm™s credit
exposure.For further discussion of these contracts,see Note 30 on

pages 168Œ169of this Annual Report.
Wholesale criticized exposure
Exposures deemed criticized generally represent a ratings profile simi-
lar to a rating of ﬁCCC+ﬂ/ﬂCaa1ﬂand lower,as defined by S&P and

Moody™s.The total criticized component of the portfolio,excluding

loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value,increased to $6.8 billion at

December 31,2007,from $5.0 billion at year-end 2006.The increase

was driven primarily by downgrades in the wholesale portfolio.
At December 31,2007,Banks and finance companies,Building mate-
rials/ construction and Telecom services moved into the top 10 of

wholesale criticized exposure,replacing Agriculture/paper manufactur-

ing,Business services and Utilities.
Industry concentrations for wholesale criticized exposure as of
December 31,2007 and 2006,were as follows.
20072006December 31,Credit% ofCredit% of
(in millions,except ratios)exposureportfolioexposureportfolio
Top 10 industries
(a)Automotive$1,33820%
$1,44229%
Real estate1,07016
2435
Retail and consumer services5508
2785
Banks and finance companies4987
741
Building materials/construction3455
1132
Media3034
3928
Chemicals/plastics2884
1593
Healthcare2464
2846
Consumer products2394
3837
Telecom services
2193
201
All other1,74225
1,63833
Total excluding loans
held-for-sale and loans
at fair value$6,838100%
$5,026100%
Loans held-for-sale and 
loans at fair value
(b)205624Total$7,043
$5,650
(a) Rankings are based upon exposure at December 31,2007.
(b) Loans held-for-sale relate primarily to syndication loans and loans transferred from
the retained portfolio.During the first quarter of 2007,the Firm elected the fair value

option of accounting for loans related to securitization activities;these loans are clas-

sified as Trading assets at December 31,2007.Loans held-for-sale exclude purchased

nonperforming loans held-for-sale.
Presented below is a discussion of several industries to which the
Firm has significant exposure,as well as industries the Firm contin-

ues to monitor because of actual or potential credit concerns.For

additional information,refer to the tables above and on the preced-

ing page.
Automotive:Automotive Original Equipment Manufacturers and
suppliers based in North America continued to be affected
by a challenging operating environment in 2007.As a result,the indus-

try continued to be the largest segment of the Firm™s wholesale 

criticized exposure;however,most of the criticized exposure

remains undrawn,is performing and is substantially secured.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
80JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The following tables summarize the aggregate notional amounts and
the net derivative receivables MTM for the periods presented.
Notional amounts of derivative contracts
December 31,Notional amounts
(a)(in billions)20072006Interest rate contracts
Interest rate and currency swaps
(b)$53,458
$40,629
Future and forwards 
4,5484,342Purchased options 5,3495,230Total interest rate contracts 63,355
50,201Credit derivatives$7,967
$4,619
Commodity contracts
Swaps 
$275
$244
Future and forwards 
9168Purchased options 233195Total commodity contracts 599
507Foreign exchange contracts
Future and forwards 
$3,424
$1,824
Purchased options 906696Total foreign exchange contracts 
4,3302,520Equity contracts
Swaps 
$105
$56
Future and forwards 
7273Purchased options 821680Total equity contracts 998
809Total derivative notional amounts$77,249
$58,656
(a) Represents the sum of gross long and gross short third-party notional derivative 
contracts,excluding written options and foreign exchange spot contracts.
(b) Includes cross currency swap contract notional amounts of $1.4 trillion and $1.1 
trillion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
Derivative receivables marked to market (ﬁMTMﬂ)
December 31,Derivative receivables MTM
(in millions)20072006Interest rate contracts
$36,020
$28,932
Credit derivatives 
22,0835,732Commodity contracts 
9,41910,431Foreign exchange contracts 
5,6164,260Equity contracts 
3,9986,246Total,net of cash collateral77,136
55,601Liquid securities collateral held against
derivative receivables
(9,824)(6,591)Total,net of all collateral$67,312
$49,010
The amount of Derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated
balance sheets of $77.1 billion and $55.6 billion at December 31,
2007 and 2006,respectively,is the amount of the mark-to-market

value (ﬁMTMﬂ) or fair value of the derivative contracts after giving

effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash 
collateral held by the Firm.These amounts represent the cost to the

Firm to replace the contracts at current market rates should the

counterparty default.However,in management™s view,the appropri-

ate measure of current credit risk should also reflect additional liquid
securities held as collateral by the Firm of $9.8 billion and $6.6 bil-

lion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,resulting in total

exposure,net of all collateral,of $67.3 billion and $49.0 billion at
December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.Derivative receivables
increased $18.3 billion from December 31,2006,primarily driven 

by increases in credit derivative and interest rate products due to
increasedcredit spreads and lower interest rates,respectively,as 
well as a decline in the U.S.dollar.
The Firm also holds additional collateral delivered by clients at the
initiation of transactions,but this collateral does not reduce the cred-

it risk of the derivative receivables in the table above.This additional

collateral secures potential exposure that could arise in the deriva-

tives portfolio should the MTM of the client™s transactions move in

the Firm™s favor.As of December 31,2007 and 2006,the Firm held

$17.4 billion and $12.3 billion of this additional collateral,respec-

tively.The derivative receivables MTM also does not include other

credit enhancements in the form of letters of credit.
While useful as a current view of credit exposure,the net MTM value of

the derivative receivables does not capture the potential future variability
of that credit exposure.To capture the potential future variability of credit
exposure,the Firm calculates,on a client-by-client basis,three measures

of potential derivatives-related credit loss:Peak,Derivative Risk

Equivalent (ﬁDREﬂ),and Average exposure (ﬁAVGﬂ).These measures all

incorporate netting and collateral benefits,where applicable.
Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure

calculated at a 97.5% confidence level.However,the total potential

future credit risk embedded in the Firm™s derivatives portfolio is not

the simple sum of all Peak client credit risks.This is because,at the

portfolio level,credit risk is reduced by the fact that when offsetting

transactions are done with separate counterparties,only one of the

two trades can generate a credit loss,even if both counterparties

were to default simultaneously.The Firm refers to this effect as mar-

ket diversification,and the Market-Diversified Peak (ﬁMDPﬂ) meas-

ure is a portfolio aggregation of counterparty Peak measures,repre-

senting the maximum losses at the 97.5% confidence level that
would occur if all counterparties defaulted under any one given mar-
ket scenario and time frame.
Derivative Risk Equivalent exposure is a measure that expresses the
riskiness of derivative exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent

to the riskiness of loan exposures.The measurement is done by

equating the unexpected loss in a derivative counterparty exposure

(which takes into consideration both the loss volatility and the credit

rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in a loan expo-

sure (which takes into consideration only the credit rating of the

counterparty).DRE is a less extreme measure of potential credit loss

than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit

approval of derivative transactions.
Finally,AVG is a measure of the expected MTM value of the Firm™s

derivative receivables at future time periods,including the benefit of

collateral.AVG exposure over the total life of the derivative contract is

used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calcu-
late credit capital and the Credit Valuation Adjustment (ﬁCVAﬂ),as

further described below.Average exposure was $47.1 billion and

$35.6 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,compared

with derivative receivables MTM,net of all collateral,of $67.3 billion

and $49.0 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
Global Reports LLC
The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm™s derivative receivables MTM,net of other liquid securities coll
ateral,for the dates
indicated.Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM
Rating equivalent2007
2006December 31,Exposure net of% of exposure netExposure net of% of exposure net 
(in millions,except ratios)all collateralof all collateralall collateralof all collateral
AAA/Aaa to AA-/Aa3
$38,31457%
$28,15058%
A+/A1 to A-/A3
9,85515
7,58815
BBB+/Baa1 to BBB-/Baa39,33514
8,04416
BB+/Ba1 to B-/B39,45114
5,15011
CCC+/Caa1 and below357Š
78Š
Total$67,312100%
$49,010100%
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
81Credit derivatives 
The following table presents the Firm™s notional amounts of credit

derivatives 
protection purchased and sold as of December 31,2007
and 2006.Notional amountCredit portfolioDealer/client
December 31,ProtectionProtectionProtectionProtection
(in billions)purchased
(a)soldpurchasedsold
Total
2007$70$2$3,999$3,896$7,967
2006$52$1$2,277$2,289$4,619
(a) Included $31.1 billion and $22.7 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,
respectively,that represented the notional amount for structured portfolio protection;

the Firm retains a minimal first risk of loss on this portfolio.
JPMorgan Chase has counterparty exposure as a result of creditderivatives transactions.Of the $77.1 billion of total Derivative

receivables MTM at December 31,2007,$22.1 billion,or 29%,

was associated with credit derivatives,before the benefit of liquid

securities collateral.
The Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to miti-

gate counterparty credit risk in derivatives.The percentage of the

Firm™s derivatives transactions subject to collateral agreements

increased slightly to 82% as of December 31,2007,from 80% at

December 31,2006.
The Firm posted $33.5 billion and $26.6 billion of collateral at
December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.Certain derivative and
collateral agreements include provisions that require the counterparty
and/or the Firm,upon specified downgrades in their respective credit
ratings,to post collateral for the benefit of the other party.The impact
of a single-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.,

from its rating of ﬁAAﬂto ﬁAA-ﬂat December 31,2007,would have

required $237 million of additional collateral to be posted by the

Firm.The impact of a six-notch ratings downgrade (from ﬁAAﬂto

ﬁBBBﬂ) would have required $2.5 billion of additional collateral.

Certain derivative contracts also provide for termination of the con-

tract,generally upon a downgrade of either the Firm or the counter-

party,at the then-existing MTM value of the derivative contracts.
010
2030
4050607080Exposure profile of derivatives measures
December 31, 2007
(in billions)MDPAVG
DRE1 year2 years5 years10 years
The MTM value of the Firm™s derivative receivables incorporates an
adjustment,the CVA,to reflect the credit quality of counterparties.

The CVA is based upon the Firm™s AVG to a counterparty and the

counterparty™s credit spread in the credit derivatives market.The 

primary components of changes in CVA are credit spreads,new deal

activity or unwinds,and changes in the underlying market environ-

ment.The Firm believes that active risk management is essential to

controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio.In
addition,the Firm takes into consideration the potential for correla-

tion between the Firm™s AVG to a counterparty and the counterparty™s
credit quality within the credit approval process.The Firm risk man-

ages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit derivative

transactions,as well as interest rate,foreign exchange,equity and

commodity derivative transactions.
The graph to the right shows exposure profiles to derivatives over
the next 10 years as calculated by the MDP,DRE and AVG metrics.

All three measures generally show declining exposure after the first

year,if no new trades were added to the portfolio.
Global Reports LLC
Dealer/client businessAt December 31,2007,the total notional amount of protection pur-
chased and sold in the dealer/client business increased $3.3 trillion
from year-end 2006 as a result of increased trade volume in the mar-

ket.The risk positions are largely matched when securities used to

risk-manage certain derivative positions are taken into consideration

and the notional amounts are adjusted to a duration-based equivalent

or to reflect different degrees of subordination in tranched structures.
Credit portfolio activities
In managing its wholesale credit exposure,the Firm purchases single-
name and portfolio credit derivatives;this activity does not reduce

the reported level of assets on the balance sheet or the level of
reported offŒbalance sheet commitments.The Firm also diversifies its
exposures by providing (i.e.,selling) credit protection,which increases
exposure to industries or clients where the Firm has little or no
client-related exposure.This activity is not material to the Firm™s over-

all credit exposure.
Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives
December 31,Notional amount of protection purchased
(in millions)20072006Credit derivatives used to manage:
Loans and lending-related commitments$63,645
$40,755
Derivative receivables
6,46211,229Total
(a)$70,107
$51,984
(a) Included $31.1 billion and $22.7 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,
that represented the notional amount for structured portfolio protection;the Firm

retains a minimal first risk of loss on this portfolio.
The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for credit portfolio
management activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under
SFAS 133,and therefore,effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 is not

performed.These derivatives are reported at fair value,with gains

and losses recognized in Principal transactions revenue.The MTM

value incorporates both the cost of credit derivative premiums and

changes in value due to movement in spreads and credit events;in

contrast,the loans and lending-related commitments being risk man-

aged are accounted for on an accrual basis.Loan interest and fees

are generally recognized in Net interest income,and impairment is

recognized in the Provision for credit losses.This asymmetry in

accounting treatment between loans and lending-related commit-
ments and the credit derivatives utilized in credit portfolio manage-

ment activities causes earnings volatility that is not representative,in

the Firm™s view,of the true changes in value of the Firm™s overall

credit exposure.The MTM related to the Firm™s credit derivatives used

for managing credit exposure,as well as the MTM related to the

CVA,which reflects the credit quality of derivatives counterparty

exposure,are included in the table below.These results can vary from

period to period due to market conditions that impact specific posi-

tions in the portfolio.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Hedges of lending-related commitments(a)$350
$(246)$24
CVA and hedges of CVA
(a)(363)13384
Net gains (losses)(b)$(13)
$(113)$108
(a) These hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
(b) Excludes gains of $373 million,$56 million and $8 million for the years ended
December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,respectively,of other Principal transactions 

revenue that was not associated with hedging activities.The amount for 2007 incor-

porates an adjustment to the valuation of the Firm™s derivative liabilities as a result of

the adoption of SFAS 157 on January 1,2008.
The Firm also actively manages wholesale credit exposure mainly
through IB and CB loan and commitment sales.During 2007,2006

and 2005,these sales of $4.9 billion,$4.0 billion and $4.9 billion of

loans and commitments,respectively,resulted in losses of $7 million

in 2007 and gains of $83 million and $81 million in 2006 and 2005,
respectively.These results include gains on sales of nonperforming

loans,as discussed on page 76 of this Annual Report.These activities

are not related to the Firm™s securitization activities,which are under-

taken for liquidity and balance sheet management purposes.

For a further discussion of securitization activity,see Liquidity Risk
Management and Note 16 on pages 70Œ73 and 139Œ145,respec-

tively,
of this Annual Report.
Lending-related commitments
Wholesale lending-related commitments were $446.7 billion at
December 31,2007,compared with $391.4 billion at December 31,

2006.The increase reflected greater overall lending activity.In the

Firm™s view,the total contractual amount of these instruments is not

representative of the Firm™s actual credit risk exposure or funding

requirements.In determining the amount of credit risk exposure the

Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments,which is used as

the basis for allocating credit risk capital to these instruments,the

Firm has established a ﬁloan-equivalentﬂamount for each commit-

ment;this amount represents the portion of the unused commitment

or other contingent exposure that is expected,based upon average

portfolio historical experience,to become outstanding in the event of

a default by an obligor.The loan-equivalent amount of the Firm™s

lending-related commitments was $238.7 billion and $212.3 billion

as of December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
82JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
83Top 5 emerging markets country exposure
At December 31,2007
Cross-borderTotal
(in billions)Lending
(a)Trading
(b)Other(c)TotalLocal
(d)exposure
South Korea$3.2$2.6$0.7$6.5$3.4$9.9
Brazil1.1(0.7)1.21.65.06.6

Russia2.91.00.24.10.44.5

India1.90.80.83.50.64.1
China2.20.30.42.90.33.2
(a)Lending includes loans and accrued interest receivable,interest-bearing deposits with banks,acceptances,other monetary asset
s,issued letters of credit net of participations,and
undrawn commitments to extend credit.
(b)Trading includes (1) issuer exposure on cross-border debt and equity instruments,held both in trading and investment account
s,adjusted for the impact of issuer hedges,including
credit derivatives;and (2) counterparty exposure on derivative and foreign exchange contracts as well as security financing tra
des (resale agreements and securities borrowed).
(c)Other represents mainly local exposure funded cross-border.

(d)Local exposure is defined as exposure to a country denominated in local currency,booked and funded locally.
Emerging markets country exposure
The 
Firm has a comprehensive internal process for measuring andmanaging exposures to emerging markets countries.There is no com-

mon definition of emerging markets but the Firm generally,though

not exclusively,includes in its definition those countries whose sover-

eign debt ratings are equivalent to ﬁA+ﬂor lower.Exposures to a

country include all credit-related lending,trading and investment

activities,whether cross-border or locally funded.In addition to mon-

itoring country exposures,the Firm uses stress tests to measure and

manage the risk of extreme loss associated with sovereign crises.
The table below presents the Firm™s exposure to the top five emerging

markets countries.The selection of countries is based solely on the

Firm™s largest total exposures by country and not the Firm™s view of

any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions.Exposure is report-

ed based on the country where the assets of the obligor,counterparty

or guarantor are located.Exposure amounts are adjusted for collater-

al and for credit enhancements (e.g.,guarantees and letters of credit)

provided by third parties;outstandings supported by a guarantor out-

side the country or backed by collateral held outside the country are

assigned to the country of the enhancement provider.In addition,the

effect of credit derivative hedges and other short credit or equity trad-

ing positions are reflected in the table below.Total exposure includes

exposure to both government and private sector entities in a country.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
84JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO 
JPMorgan Chase™s consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential 
mort-gages,home equity loans,credit cards,auto loans and leases,educa-

tion loans and business banking loans,and reflects the benefit of

diversification from both a product and a geographic perspective.The

primary focus is serving the prime consumer credit market.RFS offers

home equity lines of credit and mortgage loans with interest-only pay-
ment options to predominantly prime borrowers;there are no products

in the real estate portfolios that result in negative amortization.The domestic consumer credit environment in 2007 was negatively
affected by the deterioration in valuations associated with residential

real estate.For the first time in decades,average home prices declined

on a national basis,with many specific real estate markets recording

double-digit percentage declines in average home prices.The negative

residential real estate environment has also had an effect on the per-
formance of other consumer credit asset classes,including auto loans

and credit card loans.Geographic areas that have seen the most

material declines in home prices have exhibited higher delinquency
and losses across the consumer credit product spectrum.Significant actions have been taken to tighten credit underwriting and

loan qualification standards,especially related to real estate lending.
Maximum loan-to-value and debt-to-income ratios have been reduced,
minimum required credit risk scores for loan qualification have been
increased and collateral valuation methods have been tightened.

These actions have resulted in significant reductions in new loan orig-

inations of risk layered loans,and improved alignment of loan pricing

with the embedded risk.Account management and loan servicing policies and actions havealso been enhanced.Delinquency management,loss mitigation,and
asset disposition efforts have been increased,while collection intensity,
exposure management,debt restructuring,and other similar practices

have been strengthened to effectively manage loss exposure.
The following table presents managed consumer creditŒrelated information for the dates indicated.
Consumer portfolio NonperformingAverage annual
As of or for the year ended December 31,Credit exposureassets
(f)Net charge-offsnet charge-off rate
(g)(in millions,except ratios)
20072006200720062007200620072006Consumer loans Œ reported
(a)Home equity $94,832
$85,714
$810
$454
$564
$143
0.62%0.18%Mortgage 55,46130,5771,798653190560.450.12Auto loans and leases(b)42,35041,0091161323542380.860.56Credit card Œ reported(c)84,35285,881793,1162,4883.903.37All other loans25,31423,4603413222421391.010.65Loans held-for-sale
3,98932,744Š116NANANANATotal consumer loans Œ reported306,298
299,3853,0721,6864,4663,0641.611.17Credit card Œ securitized(c)(d)72,70166,950ŠŠ2,3802,2103.433.28Total consumer loans Œ managed
(c)378,999366,3353,0721,6866,8465,2741.971.60Assets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA549225NANANANATotal consumer-related assets Œ managed378,999
366,3353,6211,9116,8465,2741.971.60Consumer lending-related commitments:

Home equity(e)74,19169,559NANANANANANAMortgage7,4106,618NANANANANANAAuto loans and leases8,0587,874NANANANANANACredit card(e)714,848657,109NANANANANANAAll other loans11,4296,375NANANANANANATotal lending-related commitments815,936
747,535NANANANANANATotal consumer credit portfolio$1,194,935
$1,113,870
$3,621
$1,911
$6,846
$5,274
1.97%1.60%Memo:Credit card Œ managed
$157,053
$152,831
$7$9$5,496
$4,698
3.68%3.33%(a)Includes RFS,CS and residential mortgage loans reported in the Corporate segment.
(b)Excludes operating lease-related assets of $1.9 billion and $1.6 billion for December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.

(c)Loans past-due 90 days and over and accruing include credit card receivables Œ reported of $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion for
 December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,and related
credit card securitizations of $1.1 billion and $962 million for December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(d)Represents securitized credit card receivables.For a further discussion of credit card securitizations,see CS on pages 49Œ51
 of this Annual Report.
(e)The credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total available lines of credit for these products
.The Firm has not experienced,and does not anticipate,
that all available lines of credit will be utilized at the same time.The Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by pro
viding the borrower prior notice or,in some cases,without
notice as permitted by law.
(f)Excludes nonperforming assets related to (1) loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA pools that ar
e insured by U.S.government agencies 
of $1.5 billion forDecember 31,2007 and $1.2 billion for December 31,2006,and (2) education loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing,whi
ch are insured by U.S.government agencies under
the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $279 million and $219 million as of December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.These a
mounts for GNMA and education loans are exclud-ed,as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(g)Net charge-off rates exclude average loans held-for-sale of $10.6 billion and $16.1 billion for 2007 and 2006,respectively.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
85The following tables present the geographic distribution of consumer credit outstandings by product as of December 31,2007 and 
2006.Consumer loans by geographic region
December 31,2007
CardAllTotal consumer CardTotal consumer
(in billions)Home equityMortgageAutoreportedother loansloansŒreported securitizedloansŒmanaged
Top 12 states
California$14.9$13.4$5.0$11.0$1.0$45.3$9.6$54.9

New York14.48.03.66.64.236.85.642.4

Texas6.12.03.75.83.521.15.426.5

Florida5.36.41.64.70.518.54.222.7

Illinois6.73.02.24.51.918.33.922.2

Ohio4.91.02.93.32.614.73.117.8

New Jersey4.42.21.73.30.512.13.115.2

Michigan3.71.61.32.92.311.82.514.3

Arizona5.71.51.81.71.812.51.413.9

Pennsylvania1.60.91.73.20.57.92.910.8

Colorado2.31.31.02.00.87.41.79.1

Indiana2.40.61.21.81.17.11.58.6
All other22.414.114.733.68.092.827.8120.6
Total
$94.8$56.0$42.4$84.4$28.7$306.3$72.7$379.0
The Firm regularly evaluates market conditions and overall economic
returns and makes an initial determination of whether new origina-

tions will be held-for-investment or sold within the foreseeable future.
The Firm also periodically evaluates the expected economic returns of

previously originated loans under prevailing market conditions to deter-

mine whether their designation as held-for-sale or held-for-investment
continues to be appropriate.When the Firm determines that a change

in this designation is appropriate,the loans are transferred to the

appropriate classification.During the third and fourth quarters of

2007,in response to changes in market conditions,the Firm designat-

ed as held-for-investment all new originations of subprime mortgage

loans,as well as subprime mortgage loans that were previously desig-

nated held-for-sale.In addition,all new prime mortgage originations

that cannot be sold to U.S.government agencies and U.S.govern-

ment-sponsored enterprises have been designated as held-for-invest-

ment.Prime mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell are

accounted for at fair value under SFAS 159 and are classified as

Trading assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following discussion relates to the specific loan and lending-
related categories within the consumer portfolio.
Home equity:Home equity loans at December 31,2007,were
$94.8 billion,an increase of $9.1 billion from year-end 2006.The

change in the portfolio from December 31,2006,reflected organic

growth.The Provision for credit losses for the Home equity portfolio

includes net increases of $1.0 billion to the Allowance for loan losses

for the year ended December 31,2007,as risk layered loans,contin-
ued weak housing prices and slowing economic growth have resulted
in a significant increase in nonperforming assets and estimatedlosses,
especially with respect to recently originated high loan-to-value loans

in specific geographic regions that have experienced significant

declines in housing prices.The decline in housing prices and the sec-

ond lien position for these types of loans results in minimal proceeds
upon foreclosure,increasing the severity of losses.Although subprime

Home equity loans do not represent a significant portion of the Home
equity loan balance,the origination of subprime home equity loans

was discontinued in the third quarter of 2007.In addition,loss miti-

gation activities continue to be intensified,underwriting standards

have been tightened and pricing actions have been implemented to
reflect elevated risks related to the home equity portfolio.
Global Reports LLC
Consumer loans by geographic region
December 31,2006CardAllTotal consumer CardTotal consumer
(in billions)Home equityMortgageAutoreportedother loansloansŒreported securitizedloansŒmanaged
Top 12 states
California$12.9$14.5$4.6$10.8$0.9$43.7$8.8$52.5

New York12.28.93.27.04.235.55.040.5

Texas5.82.13.26.03.320.45.125.5

Florida4.47.11.64.80.518.43.722.1

Illinois6.22.41.94.41.716.63.720.3

Ohio5.31.02.53.42.514.72.917.6

New Jersey3.52.61.93.40.411.82.714.5

Michigan3.81.51.23.02.311.82.314.1

Arizona5.41.51.61.61.411.51.212.7

Pennsylvania1.51.11.63.40.48.02.610.6

Colorado2.11.10.81.90.76.61.68.2

Indiana2.60.51.01.81.17.01.48.4
All other20.015.415.934.47.793.425.9119.3
Total
$85.7$59.7$41.0$85.9$27.1$299.4$66.9$366.3
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
86JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Top 5 States Total Consumer Loans - Reported
(at December 31, 2007)
CaliforniaTexas
Texas
New York
54.3%14.8%6.9%Florida12.0%6.0%6.0%IllinoisIllinoisAll otherGlobal Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
87Mortgage:Prior to the third quarter of 2007,subprime mortgage
loans and substantially all of the Firm™s prime mortgages,both fixed-

rate and adjustable-rate,were originated with the intent to sell.

Prime mortgage loans originated into the held-for-investment portfo-

lio consisted primarily of adjustable-rate products.As a result of the

decision to retain rather than sell subprime mortgage loans and new

originations of prime mortgage loans that cannot be sold to U.S.

government agencies and U.S.government-sponsored enterprises,

both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate products are now being originat-

ed into the held-for-investment portfolio.Mortgages,irrespective of

whether they are originated with the intent to sell or hold-for-invest-

ment,are underwritten to the same standards applicable to the

respective type of mortgage.
Mortgage loans at December 31,2007,including loans held-for-sale,
were $56.0 billion,reflecting a $3.6 billion decrease from year-end

2006,primarily due to the change in classification to Trading assets

for prime mortgages originated with the intent to sell and elected to
be fair valued under SFAS 159 offset partially by the decision to

retain rather than sell subprime mortgage loans and new origina-

tions of prime mortgage loans that cannot be sold to U.S.govern-

ment agencies and U.S.government-sponsored enterprises.As of

December 31,2007,mortgage loans on the Consolidated balance

sheet included $15.5 billion of subprime mortgage loans,represent-

ing 28% of the total mortgage loan balance.The Provision for credit

losses for mortgage loans included $166 million in increases to the
allowance for loan losses for the year ended December 31,2007,as

housing price declines in specific geographic regions and slowing

economic growth have resulted in increases in nonperforming assets
and estimated losses for the subprime product segment.The

Provision for credit losses also reflects the decision to retain rather

than sell subprime mortgage loans.Loss mitigation activities have

been intensified,products have been eliminated and underwriting

standards continue to be tightened to reflect management™s expecta-

tion of elevated credit losses in the subprime market segment.

Nonperforming assets have also increased in the prime product seg-ment.Borrowers are generally required to obtain private mortgage
insurance for prime mortgage loans with high loan to value ratios.

Recoveries on these insurance policies offset credit losses on these

loans to the extent foreclosure proceeds are greater than 80% of the

loan to value ratio at the time of origination.Additional housing

price declines could result in an increase in the number of foreclo-
sures for which proceeds are less than 80% of the original loan to
value ratio,resulting in increased losses for this product segment.
Auto loans and leases:As of December 31,2007,Auto loans 
andleases of $42.4 billion increased slightly from year-end 2006.The
Allowance for loan losses for the Auto loan portfolio was increased

during 2007,reflecting an increase in estimated losses from low

prior-year levels and deterioration in the credit environment.
All other loans
All other loans primarily include Business Banking loans (which are
highly collateralized loans,often with personal loan guarantees),

Education loans,Community Development loans and other secured

and unsecured consumer loans.As of December 31,2007,other

loans,including loans held-for-sale,of $28.7 billion were up $1.6 bil-

lion from year-end 2006,primarily as a result of organic growth in

Business Banking loans.
Credit Card
JPMorgan Chase analyzes its credit card portfolio on a managed
basis,which includes credit card receivables on the Consolidated bal-

ance sheets and those receivables sold to investors through securiti-

zation.Managed credit card receivables were $157.1 billion at

December 31,2007,an increase of $4.2 billion from year-end 2006,

reflecting organic growth in the portfolio.
The managed credit card net charge-off rate increased to 3.68% for

2007,from 3.33% in 2006.This increase was due primarily to lower

bankruptcy-related net charge-offs in 2006.The 30-day delinquency

rate increased slightly to 3.48% at December 31,2007,from 3.13%

at December 31,2006.The Allowance for loan loss was increased

due to higher estimated net charge-offs in the portfolio.The managed

credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned portfolio
that has good U.S.geographic diversification.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
88JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses
Year ended December 31,
20072006(in millions)WholesaleConsumerTotalWholesaleConsumerTotal
Loans:Beginning balance at January 1,
$2,711$4,568$7,279
$2,453$4,637$7,090
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles(a)(56)Š(56)
ŠŠŠ
Beginning balance at January 1,adjusted
2,6554,5687,223
2,4534,6377,090
Gross charge-offs(185)(5,182)(5,367)
(186)(3,698)(3,884)
Gross recoveries113716829
208634842
Net (charge-offs) recoveries(72)(4,466)(4,538)
22(3,064)(3,042)
Provision for loan losses5985,9406,538
2132,9403,153
Other(27)(b)38(b)11235578
Ending balance at December 31$3,154
(c)$6,080(d)$9,234
$2,711(c)$4,568
(d)$7,279
Components:Asset-specific$108$80$188
$51$67
(e)$118
Formula-based
3,0466,0009,046
2,6604,501
(e)7,161Total Allowance for loan losses$3,154$6,080$9,234
$2,711$4,568$7,279
Lending-related commitments:
Beginning balance at January 1,
$499$25$524
$385$15$400
Provision for lending-related commitments336(10)326
1089117
OtherŠŠŠ
617
Ending balance at December 31$835$15$850
$499$25$524
Components:Asset-specific$28$Š$28
$33$Š$33
Formula-based
80715822
46625491
Total allowance for 
lending-related commitments$835$15$850
$499$25$524
Total allowance for credit losses$3,989$6,095$10,084
$3,210$4,593$7,803
(a)Reflects the effect of the adoption of SFAS 159 at January 1,2007.For a further discussion of SFAS 159,see Note 5 on pages 1
19Œ121 of this Annual Report.
(b)Partially related to the transfer of Allowance between wholesale and consumer in conjunction with prime mortgages transferre
d to the Corporate sector.
(c)The ratio of the wholesale Allowance for loan losses to total wholesale loans was 1.67% and 1.68%,excluding wholesale loans 
held-for-sale and loans accounted for at fair value at
December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(d)The ratio of the consumer allowance for loan losses to total consumer loans was 2.01% and 1.71%,excluding consumer loans hel
d-for-sale and loans accounted for at fair value at
December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(e)Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation.
ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES 
JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for credit losses is intended to cover
probable credit losses,including losses where the asset is not specifi-

cally identified or the size of the loss has not been fully determined.
At least quarterly,the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the

Chief Risk Officer,the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of

the Firm,and discussed with the Risk Policy and Audit Committees 

of the Board of Directors of the Firm.The allowance is reviewed 

relative to the risk profile of the Firm™s credit portfolio and current

economic conditions and is adjusted if,in management™s judgment,

changes are warranted.The allowance includes an asset-specific and
a formula-based component.For further discussion of the compo-
nents of the allowance for credit losses,see Critical accounting esti-

mates used by the Firm on pages 96Œ97 and Note 15 on pages
138Œ139 of this Annual Report.At December 31,2007,manage-

ment deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e.,

sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio,including

losses that are not specifically identified or for which the size of the
loss has not yet been fully determined).Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
89The allowance for credit losses increased $2.3 billion from December
31,2006.The consumer and wholesale components of the allowance

increased $1.5 billion and $779 million,respectively.The increase in

the consumer portion of the allowance included increases of $1.3

billion and $215 million in RFS and CS,respectively.The increase in

the wholesale portion of the allowance was primarily due to loan

growth in the IB and CB.
Excluding Loans held-for-sale and loans carried at fair value,the
Allowance for loan losses represented 1.88% of loans at December

31,2007,compared with 1.70% at December 31,2006.
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the Firm™s process of
extending credit,management also computes an asset-specific 

component and a formula-based component for wholesale lending-
related commitments.These components are computed using a

methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loan portfolio,

modified for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown.This

allowance,which is reported in Other liabilities,was $850 million

and $524 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.The

increase reflected growth in lending-related commitments and
updates to inputs used in the calculation.Provision for credit losses
For a discussion of the reported Provision for credit losses,see page 33 of this Annual Report.The managed provision for credit
 losses includes credit
card securitizations.For the year ended December 31,2007,the increase in the Provision for credit losses was due to an increase
 year-over-year in
the allowance for credit losses largely related to home equity loans,higher credit card net charge-offs in the consumer busines
ses and an increase inthe wholesale businesses.The increase in the allowance in the wholesale businesses was due to the weakening credit environment 
as well asgrowth in the wholesale portfolio.The prior year benefited from a lower level of credit card net charge-offs,which reflected a 
lower level of lossesfollowing the change in bankruptcy legislation in the fourth quarter of 2005.Provision forYear ended December 31,Provision for loan losseslending-related commitmentsTotal provision for credit losses
(in millions)200720062005
200720062005
200720062005
Investment Bank$376
$112$(757)
$278
$79$(81)
$654
$191$(838)
Commercial Banking23013387
4927(14)
27916073
Treasury & Securities Services
11(1)(1)
8Š119(1)Š
Asset Management(19)(30)(55)
12(1)
(18)(28)(56)
Corporate
Š(1)10
ŠŠŠŠ(1)10
Total Wholesale598
213(716)
336108(95)
934321(811)
Retail Financial Services2,620552721
(10)932,610561724
Card Services Œ reported3,3312,3883,570
ŠŠ Š3,3312,3883,570
Corporate
(11)ŠŠŠŠŠ(11)ŠŠTotal Consumer5,940
2,9404,291
(10)935,9302,9494,294
Total provision for credit 
losses Œ reported6,538
3,1533,575
326117(92)
6,8643,2703,483
Credit Services Œ securitized2,3802,2103,776
ŠŠŠ2,3802,2103,776
Total provision for credit 
losses Œ managed$8,918
$5,363$7,351
$326
$117$(92)
$9,244
$5,480$7,259
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
90JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT 
Market risk is the exposure to an adverse change in the market value
of portfolios and financial instruments caused by a change in market

prices or rates.
Market risk management 
Market risk is identified,measured,monitored,and controlled by
Market Risk,
a corporate risk governance function independent of the
lines of business.Market Risk 
seeks to facilitate efficient risk/returndecisions,reduce volatility in 
operating performance and make the
Firm™s market risk profile transparent 
to senior management,the
Board of Directors and regulators.Market Risk is overseen by the

Chief Risk Officer and performs the following functions:et risk policy framework
monitoring and control 
of business segment market risk
approval and monitoring of limits

erformance of stress testing and qualitative risk assessments
Risk identification and classificationMarket Risk works in partnership with the business segments to

identify market risks throughout the Firm and to define and monitor

market risk policies and procedures.All business segments are

responsible for comprehensive identification and verification of mar-
ket risks within their units.Risk-taking businesses have functions that

act independently from trading personnel and are responsible for

verifying risk exposures that the business takes.In addition to provid-

ing independent oversight for market risk arising from the business

segments,Market Risk is also responsible for identifying exposures

which may not be large within individual business segments,but

which may be large for the Firm in aggregate.Regular meetings are

held between Market Risk and the heads of risk-taking businesses to

discuss and decide on risk exposures in the context of the market

environment and client flows.
Positions that expose the Firm to market risk can be classified into
two categories:trading and nontrading risk.Trading risk includes posi-

tions that are heldby the Firm as 
part of a business segment or unit,the main business strategy of 
whichis 
to trade or make markets.
Unrealized gains and losses in these positions are generally reported
in Principal transactions revenue.Nontrading risk includes securities

and other assets held for longer-term investment,mortgage servicing

rights,and securities and 
derivatives used to manage the Firm™s
asset/liability exposures.Unrealized 
gains and losses in these positionsare generally 
not reported in Principal transactions revenue.
Trading risk
Fixed income risk (which includes interest rate risk and credit spread

risk),foreign exchange,equities and commodities and other trading

risks involve the potential decline in Net income or financial condi-
tion due to adverse changes in market rates,whether arising from

client activities or proprietary positions taken by the Firm.
Nontrading risk
Nontrading risk arises from execution of the Firm™s core business

strategies,the delivery of products and services to its customers,

and the discretionary positions the Firm undertakes to risk-manage

exposures.
These exposures can result from a variety of factors,including differ-
ences in the timing among the maturity or repricing of assets,liabili-

ties and offŒbalance sheet instruments.Changes in the level and

shape of market interest rate curves also may create interest rate

risk,since the repricing characteristics of the Firm™s assets do not

necessarily match those of its liabilities.The Firm is also exposed to

basis risk,which is the difference in the repricing characteristics of

two floating-rate indices,such as the prime rate and 3-month LIBOR.

In addition,some of the Firm™s products have embedded optionality

that impact pricing and balances.
The Firm™s mortgage banking activities give rise to complex interest

rate risks,as well as option and basis risk.Option risk arises primarily

from prepayment options embedded in mortgages and changes in the
probability of newly originated mortgage commitments actually clos-
ing.Basis risk results from different relative movements between mort-

gage rates and other interest rates.
Risk measurement
Tools used to measure risk

Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk,

the Firm uses various metrics,both statistical and nonstatistical,

including:
Value-at-risk (ﬁVARﬂ)



awdowns

alue stress testing




Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
91Nonstatistical risk measures
Nonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net open
positions,basis 
point values,option sensitivities,market values,position
concentrations and position turnover.These measures provide granular

information on the Firm™s market risk exposure.They are aggregated by

line of business and by risk type,and are used for monitoring limits,

one-off approvals and tactical control.
Value-at-risk 
JPMorgan Chase™s primary statistical risk measure,VAR,estimates the

potentialloss 
from adverse market moves in an ordinary market envi-
ronment and provides a consistent cross-business measure of risk
profiles and levels of diversification.VAR is used for comparing risks

across businesses,monitoring limits,one-off approvals,and as an

input to economic capital calculations.VAR provides risk transparen-

cy in a normal trading environment.Each business day the Firm
undertakes a comprehensive VAR calculation that includes both its
trading and its nontrading risks.VAR for nontrading 
risk measures theamount of potential change in the fair values of the exposures
relatedto these risks;however,for such risks,VAR is not a measure of

reported revenue since nontrading activities are generally not marked

to market through Net income.
To calculate VAR,the Firm uses historical simulation,which measures

risk across instruments and portfolios in a consistent and comparable

way.This approach assumes that historical changes in market values

are representative of future changes.The simulation is based upon data

for the previous 12 months.The Firm calculates VAR using a one-day
time horizon and an expectedtail-loss methodology,which approxi-
mates a 99% confidence level.This means the Firm would expect to

incur losses greater than that predicted by VAR estimates only once in

every 100 trading days,or about two to three times a 
year.
IB Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR
IB trading VAR by risk type and credit portfolio VAR
20072006As of or for the year ended AverageMinimum  MaximumAverageMinimumMaximumAt December 31,
December 31,(in millions)VARVARVARVARVARVAR
20072006By risk type:Fixed income$80$25$135
$56$35$94
$106
$44
Foreign exchange
23944
221442
2227Equities4822133
311850
2749Commodities and other332166
4522128
2741Less:portfolio diversification
(77)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(70)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(82)(c)(62)(c)Trading VAR
(a)10750188
8455137
10099Credit portfolio VAR
(b)17831
151219
2215Less:portfolio diversification
(18)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(11)(c)NM(d)NM(d)(19)(c)(10)(c)Total trading and credit
portfolio VAR$106$50$178
$88$61$138
$103
$104
(a)Trading VAR includes substantially all trading activities in IB;however,particular risk parameters of certain products are n
ot fully captured,for example,correlation risk.Trading VAR does
not include VAR related to held-for-sale funded loans and unfunded commitments,nor the DVA taken on derivative and structured l
iabilities to reflect the credit quality of the Firm.See
the DVA Sensitivity table on page 92 of this Annual Report for further details.Trading VAR also does not include the MSR portfo
lio or VAR related to other corporate functions,such as
Treasury and Private Equity.For a discussion of MSRs and the corporate functions,see Note 18 on pages 154Œ156,Note 4 on page 11
3 and Corporate on pages 59Œ60 of this Annual
Report.(b)Includes VAR on derivative credit valuation adjustments,hedges of the credit valuation adjustment and mark-to-market hedges of 
the retained loan portfolio,which are all reported in
Principal transactions revenue.For a discussion of credit valuation adjustments,see Note 4 on pages 111Œ118 of this Annual Repo
rt.This VAR does not include the retained loan portfolio,
which is not marked to market.
(c)Average and period-end VARs were less than the sum of the VARs of their market risk components,which was due to risk offsets
 resulting from portfolio diversification.The diversifica-
tion effect reflected the fact that the risks were not perfectly correlated.The risk of a portfolio of positions is therefore u
sually less than the sum of the risks of the positions themselves.
(d)Designated as not meaningful (ﬁNMﬂ) because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components,a
nd hence it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio diversification effect.Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
92JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
IB™s average Total Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR was $106 million
for 2007,compared with $88 million for 2006.Average VAR was

higher during 2007 compared with the prior year,reflecting an

increase in market volatility as well as increased risk positions,most

notably in fixed income and equity markets.These changes also led to

an increase in portfolio diversification,as Average Trading VAR diversi-

fication increased to $77 million during 2007,from $70 million dur-

ing 2006.In general,over the course of the year,VAR exposures can

vary significantly as positions change,market volatility fluctuates and

diversification benefits change.
VAR back-testing
To evaluate the soundness of its VAR model,the Firm conducts daily

back-testing of VAR against daily IB market risk-related revenue,which is

defined as the change in value of Principal transactions revenue less pri-
vate equity gains/losses plus any trading-related net interest income,
brokerage commissions,underwriting fees or other revenue.The daily IB

market risk-related revenue excludes gains and losses on held-for-sale

funded loans and unfunded commitments and from debit valuation

adjustments (ﬁDVAﬂ).The following histogram illustrates the daily mar-

ket riskŒrelated gains and losses for IB trading businesses for the year

ended December 31,2007.The chart shows that IB posted market

riskŒrelated gains on 215 out of 261 days in this period,with 53 days

exceeding $100 million.The inset graph looks at those days on which IB

experienced losses and depicts the amount by which VAR exceeded the

actual loss on each of those days.Losses were sustained on 46 days,

with no loss greater than $225 million.During 2007,losses exceeded

the VAR measure on eight days due to the high market volatility experi-

enced during the year.No losses exceeded VAR measure during 2006.
< (200)20 > < 4040 > < 6060 > < 8080 > < 100100 > < 120(20) > < 0(60) > < (40)Daily IB market risk-related gains and losses
                   Year ended December 31, 2007
  Number of trading days
Average daily 
revenue: $50 million
  051015202530354045$ in millions816 < 00 > < 2020 > < 4040 > < 6060 > < 80 > 100$ in millionsNumber of trading days 
Daily IB VAR less market risk-related losses
80 > < 100140 > < 160120 > < 140(40) > < (20)160 > < 180180 > < 200200 > < 2200 > < 20(200) > < (100)(100) > < (80)(80) > < (60)0> 220The Firm does not include the impact of DVA taken on derivative and
structured liabilities to reflect the credit quality of the Firm in its

Trading VAR.The following table provides information about the 

sensitivity of DVA to a one basis point increase in JPMorgan Chase

credit spreads.
Debit Valuation Adjustment Sensitivity 
1 Basis Point Increase in
(in millions)JPMorgan Chase Credit Spread 
December 31,2007$ 38
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
93Loss advisories and drawdowns
Loss advisories and drawdowns are tools used to highlight to senior

management trading losses above certain levels and are used to ini-

tiate discussion of remedies.
Economic value stress testing
While VAR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in normal
markets,stress testing captures the Firm™s exposure to unlikely but

plausible events in abnormal markets.The Firm conducts economic-

value stress tests for both its trading and its nontrading activities at

least once a month using multiple scenarios that assume credit spreads
widen significantly,equity prices decline and interest rates rise in the

major currencies.Additional scenarios focus on the risks predominant

in individual business segments and include scenarios that focus on the
potential for adverse moves in complex portfolios.Periodically,scenar-

ios are reviewed and updated to reflect changes in the Firm™s risk pro-

file and economic events.Along with VAR,stress testing is important in

measuring and controlling risk.Stress testing enhances the understand-

ing of the Firm™s risk profile and loss potential,and stress losses are

monitored against limits.Stress testing is also utilized in one-off

approvals and cross-business risk measurement,as well as an input to

economic capital allocation.Stress-test 
results,trends and explanations
are provided each month to the Firm™s 
senior management and to the
lines of business to help them better measure and manage risks and to

understand event risk-sensitive positions.
Earnings-at-risk stress testing
The VAR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total

economicsensitivity of the Firm™s balance sheet to changes in market
variables.The effect of interest rate exposure on reported Net income

also is important.Interest rate risk exposure in the Firm™s core non-

trading business activities (i.e.,asset/liability management positions)

results from onŒ and offŒbalance sheet positions.The Firm conducts

simulations of changes in NII from its nontrading activities under a

variety of interest rate scenarios.Earnings-at-risk tests measure the

potential change in the Firm™s Net interest income over the next 12

months and highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors,such

as the rates themselves (e.g.,the prime lending rate),pricing strate-

gies on deposits,optionality and changes in product mix.The tests

include forecasted balance sheet changes,such as asset sales and

securitizations,as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior.
Earnings-at-risk also can result from changes in the slope of the yieldcurve,because the Firm has the ability to lend at fixed rates and bor-

row at variable or short-term fixed rates.Based upon these scenarios,

the Firm™s earnings would be 
affected negatively by a sudden andunanticipated increase in 
short-term rates without a corresponding
increase in long-term rates.Conversely,
higher long-term rates generally
are beneficial to earnings,particularly when the increase is not
accompanied by rising short-term rates.
Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk,
and so a number of alternative scenarios also are reviewed.These

scenarios include the implied forward curve,nonparallel rate shifts
and severe interest rate 
shocks on selected key rates.These scenarios
are intended to provide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan Chase™s

earnings-at-risk over a wide range of outcomes.
JPMorgan Chase™s 12-month pretax earnings sensitivity profile as of

December 31,2007 and 2006,were as follows.
Immediate change in rates
(in millions)+200bp+100bp-100bp-200bp
December 31,2007$(26)$55$(308)$(664)
December 31,2006$(101)$28$(21)$(182)
The primary change in earnings-at-risk from December 31,2006,
reflects increased prepayments on loans and securities due to lower
market interest rates.The Firm is exposed to both rising and falling

rates.The Firm™s risk to rising rates is largely the result of increased

funding costs.In contrast,the exposure to falling rates is the result 

of higher anticipated levels of loan and securities prepayments.
Risk identification for large exposures (ﬁRIFLEﬂ)
Individuals who manage risk positions,particularly those that are

complex,are responsible for identifying potential losses that could

arise from specific,unusual events,such as a potential tax change,and
estimating the probabilities of
 losses arising from such events.This
information is entered into the Firm™s RIFLE database.Trading man-

agement has access to RIFLE,thereby permitting the Firm to monitor

further earnings vulnerability not adequately covered by standard risk

measures.
Risk monitoring and control
LimitsMarket risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits.Limits

reflect the Firm™s risk appetite in the context of the market environ-

ment and business strategy.In setting limits,the Firm takes into con-

sideration factors such as market volatility,product liquidity,business

trends and management experience.
Market risk management regularly reviews and updates risk limits.

Senior management,including the Firm™s Chief Executive Officer and

Chief Risk Officer,is responsible for reviewing and approving risk 

limits at least once a year.
The Firm maintains different levels of limits.Corporate-level limits
include VAR and stress.Similarly,line-of-business limits include VAR

and stress limits and may be supplemented by loss advisories,non-

statistical measurements and instrument authorities.Businesses are

responsible for adhering to established limits,against which expo-

sures are monitored and reported.Limit breaches are reported in a

timely manner to senior management,and the affected business seg-

ment is required either to reduce trading positions or consult with
senior management on the appropriate action.Qualitative review
The Market Risk Management group also performs periodic reviews

as necessary of both businesses and products with exposure to mar-
ket risk in order to assess the ability of the businesses to control their

market risk.Strategies,market conditions,product details and risk

controls are reviewed,and specific recommendations for improve-

ments are made to management.
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
94JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Model review
Some of the Firm™s financial instruments cannot be valued based

upon quoted market prices but are instead valued using pricing mod-

els.Such models are used for m
anagement of risk positions,such as
reporting against limits,as well as for valuation.The Model Risk

Group,independent of the businesses and 
market risk management,
reviews the models the Firm uses and assesses model appropriate-

nessand consistency.The model reviews consider a number of fac-

tors about the model™s suitability for valuation and risk management

of a particular product,including whether it accurately reflects the
characteristics of the transaction 
and its significant risks,the suitability
and convergence properties of numericalalgorithms,reliability of data
sources,consistency of the treatment with modelsfor similar prod-

ucts,and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that can-

not be priced from the market.
Reviews are conducted of new or changed models,as well as previ-

ously accepted models,to assess whether there have been any

changes in the product or market that may impact the model™s validi-

ty and whether there are theoretical or competitive developments
that may require reassessment of the model™s adequacy.For a sum-

mary of valuations based upon models,see Critical Accounting

Estimates used by the Firm on pages 96Œ98 of this Annual Report.
Risk reporting
Nonstatistical exposures,value-at-risk,loss advisories and limit excess-

es are reported daily for each trading and nontrading business.Market

risk exposure trends,value-at-risk trends,profit and loss changes,and

portfolio concentrations are reported weekly.Stress-test results are

reported monthly to business and senior management.OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed

processesor 
systems,human factors or external events.
OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm™s businesses and sup-

port activities.Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways,

including errors,fraudulent acts,business interruptions,inappropriate

behavior of employees,
or vendors that do not perform in accordancewith outsourcing arrangements.These events could result in financial

losses and other damage to the Firm,including
reputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk,the Firm maintains a system
of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to pro-

vide a sound and well-controlled operational environment.The goal is
to keep operational risk at appropriate levels,in light of the Firm™s

financial strength,the characteristicsof 
its businesses,the markets in
which it operates,and the competitive and regulatory environment

to which it is subject.Notwithstanding these control measures,the

Firm incurs operational losses.
The Firm™s approach to operational risk management is intended to 

mitigate such
losses by supplementing traditional control-based
approaches to operational risk with risk measures,tools and disci-

plines that are risk-specific,consistently applied and utilized firmwide.

Key themes are transparency of information,escalation of key issues

and accountability for issue resolution.The Firm™s operational risk framework is supported by Phoenix,an

internally designed operational risk software tool.Phoenix integrates

the individual components of the operational risk management

framework into a unified,web-based tool.Phoenix enhances the

capture,reporting and analysis of operational risk data by enabling

risk identification,measurement,monitoring,reporting and analysis

to be done in an integrated manner,thereby enabling efficiencies in

the Firm™s monitoring and management of its operational risk.
For purposes of identification,monitoring,reporting and analysis,the

Firm categorizes operational risk events as follows:


actices

raud,theft and malice

delivery and process management





Technology and infrastructure failures
PRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk managementThe Firm makes direct principal investments in private equity.The 

illiquid nature and long-term holding period associated with these
investments differentiates private equity risk from the risk of positions

held in the trading portfolios.The Firm™s approach to managing pri-

vate equity risk is consistent with the Firm™s general risk governance

structure.Controls are in place establishing target levels for total and

annual investment in order to control the overall size of the portfolio.

Industry and geographic concentration limits are in place and intend-
ed to ensure diversification of the portfolio.
An independent valuation
function is responsible for reviewing the appropriatenessof the carryingvalues of private equity investments in accordance with relevant
accounting policies.At December 31,2007 and 2006,the carrying

value of the private equity businesses were $7.2 billion and $6.1 bil-

lion,respectively,of which $390 million and $587 million,respectively,
represented publicly traded positions.For further information on the

Private equity portfolio,see page 60 of this Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
95Risk identification and measurement
Risk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events

that management believes may give rise to operational losses.All

businesses utilize the Firm™s standard self-assessment process and

supporting architecture as a dynamic risk management tool.The goal

of the self-assessment process is for each business to identify the key

operational risks specific to its environment and assess the degree to

which it maintains appropriate controls.Action plans are developed

for control issues identified,and businesses are held accountable for

tracking and resolving these issues on a timely basis.
Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data,

permitting analysis of errors and losses as well as trends.Such analy-

sis,performed both at a line-of-business level and by risk-event type,

enables identification of the causes associated with risk events faced
by the businesses.Where available,the internal data can be supple-

mented with external data for comparative analysis with industry

patterns.The data reported enables the Firm to back-test against

self-assessment results.The Firm is a founding member of the

Operational Risk Data Exchange,a not-for-profit industry association

formed for the purpose of collecting operational loss data,sharing
data in an anonymous form and benchmarking results back to mem-bers.Such information supplements the Firm™s ongoing operational

risk analysis.
Risk reporting and analysis
Operational risk management reports provide timely and accurate

information,including information about actual operational loss levels

and self-assessment results,to the lines of business and senior man-

agement.The purpose of these reports is to enable management to

maintain operational risk at appropriate levels within each line of

business,to escalate issues and to provide consistent data aggrega-

tion across the Firm™s businesses and support areas.
Audit alignment Internal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to pro-

vide an independent assessment of the design and effectiveness of
key controls over the Firm™s operations,regulatory compliance and

reporting.Audit partners with business management and members

of the control community in providing guidance on the operational

risk framework and reviews the effectiveness and accuracy of the

business self-assessment process as part of its business unit audits.
A firm™s success depends not only on its prudent management of the
liquidity,credit,market and operational risks that are part of its busi-

ness risks,but equally on the maintenance among many constituents

Œ clients,investors,regulators,as well as the general public Œ of a

reputation for business practices of the highest quality.Attention to

reputation always has been a key aspect of the Firm™s practices,and

maintenance of reputation is the responsibility of everyone at the
Firm.JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individual responsibility in many

ways,including through the Firm™s Code of Conduct,training,main-

taining adherence to policies and procedures,and oversight functions

that approve transactions.These oversight functions include a

Conflicts Office,which examines wholesale transactions with the

potential to create conflicts of interest for the Firm,and regional rep-

utation risk review committees,which review certain transactions

with clients,especially complex derivatives and structured finance

transactions,that have the potential to affect adversely the Firm™s

reputation.These regional committees,whose members are senior

representatives of business and control function in the region,focus

on the purpose and effect of its transactions from the client™s point

of view,with the goal that these transactions are not used to mis-

lead investors or others.
Fiduciary risk managementThe risk management committees within each line of business

include in their mandate the oversight of the legal,reputational and,

where appropriate,fiduciary risks in their businesses that may pro-

duce significant losses or reputational damage.The Fiduciary Risk

Management function works with the relevant line-of-business risk

committees with the goal of ensuring that businesses providing
investment or risk management products or services that give rise to
fiduciary duties to clients perform at the appropriate standard rela-

tive to their fiduciary relationship with a client.Of particular focus

are the policies and practices that address a business™ responsibilities

to a client,including client suitability determination;disclosure obli-

gations and communications;and performance expectations with

respect to risk management products or services being provided by
the Firm that give rise to such fiduciary duties.In this way,the rele-

vant line-of-business risk committees,together with the Fiduciary

Risk Management function,provide oversight of the Firm™s efforts to

monitor,measure and control the risks that may arise in the delivery

of the products or services to clients that give rise to such duties,as

well as those stemming from any of the Firm™s fiduciary responsibili-

ties to employees under the Firm™s various employee benefit plans.
REPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT          
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
96JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase™s accounting policies and use of estimates are inte-
gral to understanding its reported results.The Firm™s most complex

accounting estimates require management™s judgment to ascertain

the valuation of assets and liabilities.The Firm has established

detailed policies and control procedures intended to ensure that valu-
ation methods,including any judgments
made as part of such meth-ods,are well-controlled,independently reviewed and applied consis-

tently from period to period.In 
addition,the policies 
and proceduresare intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies
occurs in an appropriate manner.The Firm believes its estimates for

determining the valuation of its assets and liabilities are appropriate.

The following is a brief description of the Firm™s critical accounting

estimates involving significant valuation judgments.
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for credit losses covers the wholesale
and consumer loan portfolios as well as the Firm™s portfolio of whole-

sale lending-related commitments.The allowance for credit losses is

intended to adjust the value of the Firm™s loan assets for probable

credit losses as of the balance sheet date.For further discussion of

the methodologies used in establishing the Firm™s allowance for credit

losses,see Note 15 on pages 138Œ139 of this Annual Report.
Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating both the Allowance for loan losses

and the Allowance for lending-related commitments involves signifi-

cant judgment.First and foremost,it involves the early identification

of credits that are deteriorating.Second,it involves judgment in

establishing the inputs used to estimate the allowances.Third,it

involves management judgment to evaluate certain macroeconomic

factors,underwriting standards,and other relevant internal and

external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio
and to refine loss factors to better reflect these conditions.
The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine the credit quality of
its wholesale loans.Wholesale loans are reviewed for information

affecting the obligor™s ability to fulfill its obligations.In assessing the

risk rating of a particular loan,among the factors considered are the
obligor™s debt capacity and financial flexibility,the level of the obligor™s
earnings,the amount and sources for repayment,the level and

nature of contingencies,management strength and the industry and

geography in which the obligor operates.These factors are based

upon an evaluation of historical and current information,and involve

subjective assessment and interpretation.Emphasizing one factor

over another or considering additional factors could impact the risk
rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.
The Firm applies its judgment to establish loss factors used in calcu-
lating the allowances.Wherever possible,the Firm uses independent,
verifiable data or the Firm™s own historical loss experience in its models
for estimating the allowances.Many factors can affect estimates of

loss,including volatility of loss given default,probability of default

and rating migrations.Consideration is given as to whether the loss

estimates should be calculated as an average over the entire credit

cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle,as well as to which

external data should be used and when they should be used.
Choosing data that are not reflective of the Firm™s specific loan port-
folio characteristics could also affect loss estimates.The application
of different inputs would change the amount of the allowance for

credit losses determined appropriate by the Firm.Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors
derived,taking into consideration model imprecision,external factors

and economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in
the loss factors by creating estimated ranges using historical experi-

ence of both loss given default and probability of default.Factors relat-

ed to concentrated and deteriorating industries also are incorporated

where relevant.These estimates are based upon management™s view of

uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political condi-
tions,quality of underwriting standards and other relevant internal and

external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio.
As noted on page 77 of this Annual Report,the Firm™s wholesale

allowance is sensitive to the risk rating assigned to a loan.Assuming

a one-notch downgrade in the Firm™s internal risk ratings for its

entire Wholesale portfolio,the Allowance for loan losses for the

Wholesale portfolio would increase by approximately $1.5 billion as

of December 31,2007.This sensitivity analysis is hypothetical.In the

Firm™s view,the likelihood of a one-notch downgrade for all whole-

sale loans within a short timeframe is remote.The purpose of this

analysis is to provide an indication of the impact of risk ratings on

the estimate of the Allowance for loan losses for 
wholesale loans.It
is not intended to imply management™s expectation of future deterio-

ration in risk ratings.Given the process the Firm follows in determin-

ing the risk ratings of its loans,management believes the risk ratings

currently assigned to wholesale loans are appropriate.
Consumer loans For consumer loans,the Allowance for loan losses is calculated for
individual pools of loans with similar risk characteristics utilizing a

methodology that is intended to estimate losses that have occurred,
but are not yet apparent in the loan portfolios.Significant manage-

ment judgment is involved in determining the allowance for loan

losses.The allowance is sensitive to changes in the economic envi-

ronment,delinquency status,credit bureau scores,the realizable

value of collateral,borrower behavior and other risk factors.

Significant differences in management™s expectations for these 

factors could have a significant impact on the estimation of the
allowance for loan losses.
The allowance is determined by applying statistical loss factors and
other risk indicators to pools of loans by asset type to arrive at an
estimate of incurred losses in the portfolio.Management applies

judgment to the statistical loss estimates for each loan portfolio cat-
egory using delinquency trends and other risk characteristics to esti-

mate charge-offs.Management utilizes additional statistical methods

and considers portfolio and collateral valuation trends to review the

appropriateness of the primary statistical loss estimate.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM    
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
97Debt andDerivativeAFSMortgagePrivate
December 31,2007
equity securitiesreceivables
(a)securitiesservicing rightsequityOther
(b)Total
(a)Level 149%2%84%Š%1%25%21%
Level 2459616Š54874
Level 362Š10094275
Total
100%100%100%100%100%100%100%
Total assets held at fair value on the 
balance sheet (in billions)$414.3$77.1$85.4$8.6$7.2$42.9$635.5
Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm assets
(c)5%(a)Based upon gross mark-to-market valuation of the Firm™s derivatives portfolio prior to netting positions pursuant to FIN 39,
as cross-product netting is not relevant to an analysis based
upon valuation methodologies.
(b)Includes securities purchased under resale agreements,Loans (excluding loans classified within Trading assets Œ Debt and equ
ity instruments),and certain retained interests in securiti-
zations.For further information,see Note 4 on pages 111Œ118 of this Annual Report.
(c)Includes level 3 assets accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis and at the lower of cost or fair value.
The statistical calculation is adjusted to take into consideration
model imprecision,external factors and current economic events that

have occurred but are not yet reflected in the factors used to derive
the statistical calculation,and is accomplished in part by analyzing

the historical loss experience for each major product segment.
Management applies its judgment within estimated ranges in deter-

mining this adjustment.The estimated ranges and the determination

of the appropriate point within the range are based upon manage-

ment™s judgment related to uncertainties associated with current

macroeconomic and political conditions,quality of underwriting stan-

dards,and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the

credit quality of the portfolio.
Fair value of financial instruments,MSRs and commodities
inventory
A portion of JPMorgan Chase™s assets and liabilities are carried at

fair value,including trading assets and liabilities,AFS securities,cer-

tain loans,MSRs,private equity investments,structured notes and

certain repurchase and resale agreements.Held-for-sale loans and

physical commodities are carried at the lower of cost or fair value.

At December 31,2007,approximately $635.5 billion of the Firm™s

assets were recorded at fair value.
Fair value is based upon quoted market prices,where available.If
listed prices or quotes are not available,fair value is based upon
internally developed models that primarily use as inputs market-

based or independently sourced market parameters.The Firm

ensures that all applicable inputs are appropriately calibrated to

market data,including 
but not limited to yield curves,interest rates,
volatilities,equity or debt prices,foreign exchange rates and credit
curves.In addition to market 
information,models also incorporate
transaction details,such as maturity.Fair value adjustments,includ-

ing credit (counterparties™ and the Firm™s),liquidity,and input

parameter uncertainty are included,as appropriate,to the model

value to arrive at a fair value measurement.For further information,

see Note 4 and Note 5 on pages 111Œ118 and 119Œ121,respec-

tively,of this Annual Report.
On January 1,2007,the Firm adopted SFAS 157,which established a

three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measure-

ments.An instrument™s categorization within the hierarchy is based

upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value

measurement.Therefore,for instruments classified in level 1 and 2 of

the hierarchy where inputs are principally based on observable market

data,there is less judgment applied in arriving at a fair value meas-

urement.For instruments classified within level 3 of the hierarchy,

judgments are more significant.In arriving at an estimate of fair value

for an instrument within level 3 management must first determine the
appropriate model to use.Second,due to the lack of observability of

significant inputs,management must assess all relevant empirical

data in deriving valuation inputs.Finally,management judgment must

be applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments,

where relevant.The judgments made are typically affected by the type

of product and its specific contractual terms and the level of liquidity

for the product or within the market as a whole.
The following table summarizes the Firm™s assets accounted for at

fair value on a recurring basis by level within the valuation hierarchy

at December 31,2007.
Instruments for which unobservable inputs are significant to their fair

value measurement include certain loans (including purchased non-

performing loans,leveraged loans and unfunded commitments,and

subprime loans);certain residual or retained interests in securitiza-

tions and less liquid securities including certain MBS assets;certain

complex and structured derivative transactions,MSRs,and nonpublic

private equity.
The Firm reviews and updates the fair value hierarchy classifications on

a quarterly basis.Changes from one quarter to the next related to the

observability of inputs to a fair value measurement may result in a

reclassification between hierarchy levels.
Level 3 assets (including assets measured at the lower of cost or fairvalue) were 5% of total Firm assets at December 31,2007.These

assets increased during 2007 principally during the second half of 
the year,when liquidity in mortgages and other credit products fell
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
98JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
dramatically.The increase was primarily due to an increase in lever-
aged loan balances within level 3 as the ability of the Firm to syndi-
cate this risk to third parties became limited by the credit environ-
ment.In addition,there were transfers from level 2 to level 3 during

2007.These transfers were principally for instruments within the mort-

gage market where inputs which are significant to their valuation

became unobservable during the year.Subprime and Alt-A whole

loans,subprime home equity securities,commercial mortgage-backed

mezzanine loans and credit default swaps referenced to asset-backed
securities constituted the majority of the affected instruments,reflect-

ing a significant decline in liquidity in these instruments in the third
and fourth quarters of 2007,as new issue activity was nonexistent
and independent pricing information was no longer available for 

these assets.
To ensure that fair valuations are appropriate,the Firm has numerous
controls in place to ensure that its fair valuations are appropriate.An

independent model review group reviews the Firm™s valuation models

and approves them for use for specific products.All valuation models

within the Firm are subject to this review process.A price verification

group,independent from the risk taking functions,ensures observ-

able market prices and market-based parameters are 
used for valua-
tion wherever possible.For those products with material
parameter
risk for which observable market levels do not exist,an independent

review of the assumptions made on pricing is performed.Additional

review includes deconstruction of the model valuations for certain

structured instruments into their components,and benchmarking val-

uations,where possible,to similar products;validating valuation esti-

mates through actual cash settlement;and detailed review and

explanation of recorded gains and losses,which are analyzed daily

and over time.Valuation adjustments,which are also determined by

the independent price verification group,are based upon established

policies and are applied consistently over time.Any changes to the

valuation methodology are reviewed by management to confirm the

changes are justified.As markets and products develop and the pric-

ing for certain products becomes more or less transparent,the Firm

continues to refine its valuation methodologies.
Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs can impact 
the amount of revenue or loss recorded for a particular position.
Furthermore,while the Firm believes its valuation methods are

appropriate and consistent with other market participants,the use of

different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value

of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate 
of fair value at the reporting date.For a detailed discussion of the

determination of fair value for individual financial instruments,see

Note 4 on pages 111Œ118 of this Annual Report.
Goodwill impairmentUnder SFAS 142,goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and
tested for impairment.The Firm tests goodwill for impairment at least

annually,and more frequently if events or circumstances,such as

adverse changes in the business climate,indicate that there may be

justification for conducting an interim test.Impairment testing is per-

formed at the reporting-unit level (which is generally one level below

the six major business segments identified in Note 34 on pages
175Œ177of this Annual Report,plus Private Equity which is included

in Corporate).The first part of the test is a comparison,at the report-

ing unit level,of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying
amount,including goodwill.If the fair value is less than the carrying
value,then the second part of the test is needed to measure the

amount of potential goodwill impairment.The implied fair value of

the reporting unit goodwill is calculated and compared with the car-
rying amount of goodwill recorded in the Firm™s financial records.If

the carrying value of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair

value of that goodwill,then the Firm would recognize an impairment

loss in the amount of the difference,which would be recorded as a

charge against Net income.
The fair values of the reporting units are determined using discount-

ed cash flow models based upon each reporting unit™s internal fore-

casts.Management applies significant judgment when determining

the fair value of its reporting units.Imprecision in estimating the

future earnings potential of the Firm™s reporting units can impact

their estimated fair values.To assess the reasonableness of the valu-

ations derived from the discounted cash flow models,the Firm also

analyzes market-based trading and transaction multiples,where

available.These trading and transaction comparables are used to

assess the reasonableness of the estimated fair values,as observable

market information is generally not available.
Income taxesJPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the various juris-

dictions in which it operates,including U.S.federal,state and non-U.S.

jurisdictions.These laws are often complex and may be subject to differ-

ent interpretations.To determine the financial statement impact of its

accounting for income taxes,including the provision for income tax

expense and its unrecognized tax benefits,JPMorgan Chase must make

assumptions and judgments about how to interpret and apply these
complex tax laws to numerous transactions and business events.
Disputes over interpretations with the various taxing authorities may
be settled upon audit or administrative appeals.In some cases,the

Firm™s interpretations of tax laws may be subject to adjudication by

the court systems of the tax jurisdictions in which it operates.The

Firm™s consolidated federal income tax returns are presently under

examination by the Internal Revenue Service (ﬁIRSﬂ) for the years
2003,2004 and 2005.The consolidated federal income tax returns

of heritage Bank One Corporation,which merged with and into

JPMorgan Chase on July 1,2004,are under examination for the

years 2000 through 2003,and for the period January 1,2004,

through July 1,2004.Both examinations are expected to conclude in

the latter part of 2008.The IRS audit of the 2006 consolidated feder-

al income tax return has not yet commenced.Certain administrative

appeals are pending with the IRS relating to prior examination peri-
ods,for JPMorgan Chase for the years 2001 and 2002,and for Bank

One and its predecessor entities for various periods from 1996

through 1999.For years prior to 2001,refund claims relating to

income and credit adjustments,and to tax attribute carrybacks,for

JPMorgan Chase and its predecessor entities,including Bank One,

either have been or will be filed.Also,interest rate swap valuations

by a Bank One predecessor entity for the years 1990 through 1993
are,and have been the subject of litigation in both the Tax Court and

the U.S.Court of Appeals.
The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary when
additional information becomes available.The reassessment of

JPMorgan Chase™s unrecognized tax benefits may have a material

impact on its effective tax rate in the period in which it occurs.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
99Accounting for uncertainty in income taxes In June 2006,the FASB issued FIN 48,which clarifies the accounting

for uncertainty regarding income taxes recognized under SFAS 109.

FIN 48 addresses the recognition and measurement of tax positions
taken or expected to be taken,and also provides guidance on dere-

cognition,classification,interest and penalties,accounting in interim

periods and disclosure.The Firm adopted and applied FIN 48 under

the transition provisions to all of its income tax positions at the

required effective date of January 1,2007,resulting in a $436 mil-

lion cumulative effect increase to Retained earnings,a reduction in

Goodwill of $113 million and a $549 million decrease in the liability
for income taxes.For additional information related to the Firm™s

adoption of FIN 48,see Note 26 on page 164 of this Annual Report.
Changes in timing of cash flows related to income taxes
generated by a leveraged lease

In July 2006,the FASB issued FSP FAS 13-2.FSP FAS 13-2 requires
the recalculation of returns on leveraged leases if there is a change or

projected change in the timing of cash flows relating to income taxes
generated by a leveraged lease.The Firm adopted FSP FAS 13-2
atthe required effective date of January 1,2007.Implementation of

FSP FAS 13-2 did not have a significant impact on the Firm™s

Consolidated balance sheet and results of operations.
Fair value measurements Œ adoption of SFAS 157
In September 2006,the FASB issued SFAS 157,which is effective for fis-
cal years beginning after November 15,2007,with early adoption per-

mitted.SFAS 157 defines fair value,establishes a framework for measur-

ing fair value,and expands disclosures about assets and liabilities meas-

ured at fair value.
JPMorgan Chase chose early adoption for SFAS 157
effective January 1,2007 and recorded a cumulative effect increase to

Retained earnings of $287 million,primarily related to the release of

profit previously deferred in accordance with EITF 02-3.The adoption of

SFAS 157 primarily affected IB and the Private Equity business within

Corporate.For additional information related to the Firm™s adoption of

SFAS 157,see Note 4 on pages 111Œ118 of this Annual Report.
Fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities

Œ adoption of SFAS 159
In February 2007,the FASB issued SFAS 159,which is effective for fiscal

years beginning after November 15,2007,with early adoption permit-

ted.SFAS 159 provides the option to elect fair value as an alternative

measurement for selected financial assets,financial liabilities,unrecog-

nized firm commitments and written loan commitments.JPMorgan

Chase chose early adoption for SFAS 159 effective January 1,2007,and

as a result,it recorded a cumulative effect increase to Retained earnings

of $199 million.For additional information related to the Firm™s adop-

tion of SFAS 159,see Note 5 on page 119Œ121 of this Annual Report.
Derivatives netting Œ amendment of FASB Interpretation 

No.39
In April 2007,the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1,which permits offset-

ting of cash collateral receivables or payables with net derivative
positions under certain circumstances.The Firm adopted FSP FIN 39-1
effective January 1,2008.The FSP did not have a material impact on

the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheet.
Investment companiesIn June 2007,the AICPA issued SOP 07-1.SOP 07-1 provides guidance for
determining whether an entity is within the scope of the AICPA Audit and

Accounting GuideInvestment Companies(the ﬁGuideﬂ),and therefore
qualifies to use the Guide™s specialized accounting principles (referred to

as ﬁinvestment company accountingﬂ).Additionally,SOP 07-1
providesguidelines for determining whether investment company accounting
should be retained by a parent company in consolidation or by an equity
method investor in an investment.In May 2007,the FASB issued FSP

FIN 46(R)-7,which amends FIN 46R to permanently exempt entities

within the scope of the Guide from applying the provisions of FIN 46R to
their investments.In February 2008,the FASB agreed to an indefinite

delay of the effective date of SOP 07-1 in order to address implementa-
tion issues,which effectively delays FSP FIN 46(R)-7 as well for those

companies,such as the Firm,that have not adopted SOP 07-1.
Accounting for income tax benefits of dividends on share-

based payment awards

In June 2007,the FASB ratified EITF 06-11,which must be applied

prospectively for dividends declared in fiscal years beginning after
December 15,2007.EITF 06-11 requires that realized tax benefits

from dividends or dividend equivalents paid on equity-classified

share-based payment awards that are charged to retained earnings

should be recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital and
included in the pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb tax

deficiencies on share-based payment awards.Prior to the issuance of

EITF 06-11,the Firm did not include these tax benefits as part of this
pool of excess tax benefits.The Firm adopted EITF 06-11 on January 1,
2008.The adoption of this consensus
did not have an impact on theFirm™s Consolidated balance sheet or results of operations.
Fair value measurements Œ written loan commitments
On November 5,2007,the Securities and Exchange Commission (ﬁSECﬂ)
issued SAB 109,which revises and rescinds portions of SAB 105,

ﬁApplication of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments.ﬂSpecifically,

SAB 109 states that the expected net future cash flows related to the
associated servicing of the loan should be included in the measurement of
all written loan commitments that are accounted for at fair value through

earnings.The provisions of SAB 109 are applicable to written loan com-

mitments issued or modified beginning on January 1,2008.JPMorgan

Chase does not expect the impact of adopting SAB 109 to be material.Business combinations / Noncontrolling interests in consoli-

dated financial statements
On December 4,2007,the FASB issued SFAS 141R and SFAS 160,

which amend the accounting and reporting of business combina-
tions,as well as noncontrolling (i.e.,minority) interests.JPMorgan

Chase is currently evaluating the impact that SFAS 141R and SFAS

160 will have on its consolidated financial statements.For JPMorgan

Chase,SFAS 141R is effective for business combinations that close

on or after January 1,2009.SFAS 160 is effective for JPMorgan

Chase for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15,2008.
ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS
Global Reports LLC
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
100JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
In the normal course of business,JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange
-tradedcommodity derivative contracts.To determine the fair value 
of these contracts,the Firm uses various fair value estimation tech-

niques,which are primarily based upon internal models with signifi-

cant observable market parameters.The Firm™s nonexchange-traded

commodity derivative contracts are primarily energy-related.
The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonex-
change-traded commodity derivative contracts for the year ended

December 31,2007.
For the year ended 
December 31,2007
(in millions)Asset positionLiability position
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at January 1,2007$5,830$3,906
Effect of legally enforceable master netting agreements19,67119,980
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at January 1,2007
25,50123,886
Contracts realized or otherwise settled (13,716)(13,227)

Fair value of new contracts18,69916,962

Changes in fair values attributable to 
changes in valuation techniques 

and assumptionsŠŠ
Other changes in fair value3,7144,145
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2007
34,19831,766
Effect of legally enforceable master netting agreements(26,108)(25,957)
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2007
$8,090$5,809
The following table indicates the schedule of maturities of nonex-
change-traded commodity derivative contracts at December 31,

2007.December 31,2007
(in millions)Asset positionLiability position
Maturity less than 1 year$11,958$10,662
Maturity 1Œ3 years15,05712,370

Maturity 4Œ5 years5,4843,804
Maturity in excess of 5 years1,6994,930
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2007
34,19831,766
Effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements(26,108)(25,957)
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2007
$8,090$5,809
NONEXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AT FAIR VALUE
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
101FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
From time to time,the Firm has made and will make forward-looking
statements.These statements can be identified by the fact that they

do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.Forward-looking

statements often use words such as ﬁanticipate,ﬂﬁtarget,ﬂﬁexpect,ﬂ

ﬁestimate,ﬂﬁintend,ﬂﬁplan,ﬂﬁgoal,ﬂﬁbelieve,ﬂor other words of

similar meaning.Forward-looking statements provide JPMorgan

Chase™s current expectations or forecasts of future events,circum-

stances,results or aspirations.JPMorgan Chase™s disclosures in this

report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the

Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.The Firm also may

make forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or fur-

nished with the SEC.In addition,the Firm™s senior management may

make forward-looking statements orally to analysts,investors,repre-

sentatives of the media and others.
All forward-looking statements are,by their nature,subject to risks
and uncertainties,many of which are beyond the Firm™s control.

JPMorgan Chase™s actual future results may differ materially from

those set forth in its forward-looking statements.While there is no

assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is

complete,below are certain factors which could cause actual results

to differ from those in the forward-looking statements.
local,regional and international business,economic and political
conditions and geopolitical events;changes in trade,monetary and fiscal policies and laws;

securities and capital markets behavior,including changes in 
market liquidity and volatility;
changes in investor sentiment or consumer spending or saving
behavior;ability of the Firm to manage effectively its liquidity;

credit ratings assigned to the Firm or its subsidiaries;

the Firm™s reputation;

ability of the Firm to deal effectively with an economic slowdown
or other economic or market difficulty;
technology changes instituted by the Firm,its counterparties or
competitors;mergers and acquisitions,including the Firm™s ability to integrate
acquisitions;ability of the Firm to develop new products and services;
acceptance of the Firm™s new and existing products and services
by the marketplace and the ability of the Firm to increase market

share;ability of the Firm to attract and retain employees;

ability of the Firm to control expense;

competitive pressures;

changes in the credit quality of the Firm™s customers;

adequacy of the Firm™s risk management framework;

changes in laws and regulatory requirements or adverse judicial
proceedings;changes in applicable accounting policies;

ability of the Firm to determine accurate values of certain assets
and liabilities;occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or calamities or 
conflicts;the other risks and uncertainties detailed in Part 1,Item 1A:Risk
Factors in the Firm™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

ended December 31,2007.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm
speak only as of the date they are made and JPMorgan Chase does
not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the

impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the for-
ward-looking statement was made.The reader should,however,con-

sult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm may

make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K,Quarterly

Reports on Form 10-Q,or Current Reports on Form 8-K.
Global Reports LLC
Management has completed an assessment of the effectiveness 
of the Firm™s internal control over financial reporting as of 

December 31,2007.In making the assessment,management used the

framework in ﬁInternal Control Œ Integrated Frameworkﬂpromulgated

by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway

Commission,commonly referred to as the ﬁCOSOﬂcriteria.
Based upon the assessment performed,management concluded 
that as of December 31,2007,JPMorgan Chase™s internal control

over financial reporting was effective based upon the COSO criteria.

Additionally,based upon management™s assessment,the Firm 

determined that there were no material weaknesses in its internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31,2007.
The effectiveness of the Firm™s internal control over financial 
reporting as of December 31,2007,has been audited by

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,an independent registered public

accounting firm,as stated in their report which appears herein.
James Dimon
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerMichael J.Cavanagh
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 20,2008
102JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Management of JPMorgan Chase & Co.is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by,or

under the supervision of,the Firm™s principal executive and principal

financial officers,or persons performing similar functions,and effected

by JPMorgan Chase™s Board of Directors,management and other 

personnel,to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 

of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for

external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally

accepted in the United States of America.
JPMorgan Chase™s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance ofrecords,that,in reasonable detail,accurately and fairly reflect the

transactions and dispositionsof the Firm™
s assets;(2) provide reason-
able assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit

preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally

accepted accounting principles,and 
that receipts and expenditures of the Firm are being made only in accordance with authorizationsof

JPMorgan Chase™s management and directors;and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition,use or disposition of the Firm™s assets 
thatcould have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations,internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.Also,projections

of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to 

the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions,or that the degree of compliance with the policies or

procedures may deteriorate.
MANAGEMENT™S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Global Reports LLC
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 

of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for

external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting

principles.A company™s internal control over financial reporting

includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the mainte-
nance of records that,in reasonable detail,accurately and fairly

reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 

company;(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are

recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements

in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,and

that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only
in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company;and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding 

prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,use,or

disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material effect

on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations,internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.Also,projections

of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to 

the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions,or that the degree of compliance with the policies or

procedures may deteriorate.
February 20,2008
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
103Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 

JPMorgan Chase & Co.:
In our opinion,the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and
the related consolidated statements of income,changes in stockholders™
equity and comprehensive income and cash flows present fairly,in all
material respects,the financial position of JPMorgan Chase & Co.

and its subsidiaries (the ﬁFirmﬂ) at December 31,2007 and 2006,

and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31,2007 in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of

America.Also in our opinion,the Firm maintained,in all material

respects,effective internal control over financial reporting as of

December 31,2007,based on criteria established in Internal Control

Œ Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring

Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).The Firm's 

management is responsible for these financial statements,for 

maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial

reporting,included in the accompanying ﬁManagement's report on

internal control over financial reporting.ﬂOur responsibility is to

express opinions on these financial statements and on the Firm's
internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated

audits.We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of

the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).

Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to

obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements

are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control

over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.

Our audits of the financial statements included examining,on a 

test basis,evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the

financial statements,assessing the accounting principles used and

significant estimates made by management,and evaluating the overall

financial statement presentation.Our audit of internal control over

financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting,assessing the risk that a material

weakness exists,and testing and evaluating the design and operating

effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.Our

audits also included performing such other procedures as we consid-
ered necessary in the 
circumstances.We believe that our audits 
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
As discussed in Note 4,Note 5,and Note 26 to the consolidated
financial statements,effective January 1,2007 the Firm adopted

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.157,ﬁFair Value

Measurement,ﬂStatement of Financial Accounting Standards No.

159,ﬁFair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities,ﬂ

and FASB Interpretation No.48,ﬁAccounting for Uncertainty in

Income Taxes.ﬂ
PRICEWATERHOUSE
COOPERSLLP
ADISONAVENUEEWYORK,NY 10017
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Global Reports LLC
104JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200720062005
RevenueInvestment banking fees$6,635
$5,520$4,088
Principal transactions
9,01510,7788,072
Lending & deposit-related fees3,9383,4683,389
Asset management,administration and commissions
14,35611,8559,988
Securities gains (losses)164(543)(1,336)
Mortgage fees and related income2,1185911,054
Credit card income6,9116,9136,754
Other income1,8292,1752,684
Noninterest revenue 44,966
40,75734,693
Interest income71,38759,10745,075
Interest expense44,98137,86525,520
Net interest income26,406
21,24219,555
Total net revenue71,372
61,99954,248
Provision for credit losses6,8643,2703,483
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense22,68921,19118,065
Occupancy expense2,6082,3352,269
Technology,communications and equipment expense
3,7793,6533,602
Professional & outside services5,1404,4504,662
Marketing
2,0702,2091,917
Other expense3,8143,2726,199
Amortization of intangibles1,3941,4281,490
Merger costs209305722
Total noninterest expense41,703
38,84338,926
Income from continuing operations before income tax expense22,805
19,88611,839
Income tax expense7,4406,2373,585
Income from continuing operations 
15,36513,6498,254
Income from discontinued operations 
Š795229
Net income$15,365
$14,444$8,483
Net income applicable to common stock$15,365
$14,440$8,470
Per common share data
Basic earnings per share

Income from continuing operations
$4.51
$3.93$2.36
Net income4.514.162.43
Diluted earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
4.383.822.32
Net income4.384.042.38
Average basic shares 
3,404#3,470#3,492#
Average diluted shares
3,5083,5743,557
Cash dividends per common share$1.48
$1.36$1.36
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
105CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
December 31,(in millions,except share data)
20072006AssetsCash and due from banks$40,144
$40,412
Deposits with banks11,46613,547Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements (included $19,131 at fair value 
at December 31,2007)
170,897140,524Securities borrowed84,18473,688Trading assets (included assets pledged of $79,229 at December 31,2007,and $82,474 at 
December 31,2006)
491,409365,738Securities (included $85,406 and $91,917 at fair value at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,
and assets pledged of $3,958 and $39,571 at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively) 
85,45091,975Loans (included $8,739 at fair value at December 31,2007)
519,374483,127Allowance for loan losses 
(9,234)(7,279)Loans,net of Allowance for loan losses510,140
475,848Accrued interest and accounts receivable
24,82322,891Premises and equipment9,3198,735Goodwill45,27045,186Other intangible assets:Mortgage servicing rights8,6327,546Purchased credit card relationships2,3032,935All other intangibles3,7964,371Other assets (included $22,151 at fair value at December 31,2007)
74,31458,124Total assets
$1,562,147
$1,351,520
LiabilitiesDeposits (included $6,389 at fair value at December 31,2007)
$740,728
$638,788
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements (included $5,768 at fair value at 
December 31,2007)
154,398162,173Commercial paper  49,59618,849Other borrowed funds (included $10,777 at fair value at December 31,2007)
28,83518,053Trading liabilities
157,867147,957Accounts payable,accrued expense and other liabilities (including the Allowance for lending-related
commitments of $850 and $524 at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,and $25 at fair value at 

December 31,2007)
94,47688,096Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities (included $3,004 at fair value at 
December 31,2007)
14,01616,184Long-term debt (included $70,456 and $25,370 at fair v
alue at December 31,2007 
and 2006,respectively)183,862133,421Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities
15,14812,209Total liabilities
1,438,9261,235,730Commitments and contingencies (see Note 29 on pages 167Œ168 of this Annual Report)
Stockholders™ equity
Preferred stock ($1 par value;authorized 200,000,000 shares at December 31,2007 and 2006;
issued 0 shares at December 31,2007 and 2006)
ŠŠCommon stock ($1 par value;authorized 9,000,000,000 shares at December 31,2007 and 2006;
issued 3,657,671,234 shares and 3,657,786,282 shares at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively)
3,6583,658Capital surplus78,59777,807Retained earnings54,71543,600Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)(917)(1,557)Treasury stock,at cost (290,288,540 shares and 196,102,381 shares at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively)
(12,832)(7,718)Total stockholders™ equity
123,221115,790Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity$1,562,147
$1,351,520
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Global Reports LLC
106JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS™ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200720062005
Preferred stock
Balance at beginning of year$Š$139$339
Redemption of preferred stockŠ(139)(200)
Balance at end of yearŠ
Š139
Common stockBalance at beginning of year3,6583,6183,585
Issuance of common stockŠ4033
Balance at end of year3,658
3,6583,618
Capital surplusBalance at beginning of year77,80774,99472,801
Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock for employee stock-based compensation awards and related tax effects
7902,8132,193
Balance at end of year78,597
77,80774,994
Retained earningsBalance at beginning of year43,60033,84830,209
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles915172Š
Balance at beginning of year,adjusted44,515
34,02030,209
Net income15,36514,4448,483
Cash dividends declared:Preferred stock Š(4)(13)
Common stock ($1.48,$1.36 and $1.36 per share for 2007,2006 and 2005,respectively)
(5,165)(4,860)(4,831)
Balance at end of year54,715
43,60033,848
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Balance at beginning of year(1,557)(626)(208)
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles(1)ŠŠBalance at beginning of year,adjusted
(1,558)(626)(208)
Other comprehensive income (loss)641171(418)
Adjustment to initially apply SFAS 158
Š(1,102)Š
Balance at end of year(917)
(1,557)(626)
Treasury stock,at cost
Balance at beginning of year(7,718)(4,762)(1,073)
Purchase of treasury stock(8,178)(3,938)(3,412)
Reissuance from treasury stock3,1991,334Š
Share repurchases related to employee stock-based compensation awards
(135)(352)(277)
Balance at end of year (12,832)
(7,718)(4,762)
Total stockholders™ equity$123,221
$115,790$107,211
Comprehensive income
Net income$15,365
$14,444$8,483
Other comprehensive income (loss)641171(418)
Comprehensive income$16,006
$14,615$8,065
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
107CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Operating activities
Net income$15,365
$14,444$8,483
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:
Provision for credit losses6,8643,2703,483
Depreciation and amortization2,4272,1492,828
Amortization of intangibles1,3941,4281,490
Deferred tax expense (benefit) 1,307(1,810)(1,791)
Investment securities (gains) losses(164)5431,336
Gains on disposition of businessesŠ(1,136)(1,254)
Stock-based compensation2,0252,3681,563
Originations and purchases of loans held-for-sale
(116,471)(178,355)(108,611)
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans held-for-sale
105,731170,874102,602
Net change in:Trading assets
(121,240)(61,664)(3,845)
Securities borrowed(10,496)916(27,290)
Accrued interest and accounts receivable
(1,932)(1,170)(1,934)
Other assets(21,628)(7,193)1,352
Trading liabilities
12,681(4,521)(12,578)
Accounts payable,accrued expense and other liabilities
4,2847,8155,532
Other operating adjustments
9,2932,463(1,602)
Net cash used in operating activities(110,560)
(49,579)(30,236)
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banks2,0818,168104
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
(29,814)(6,939)(32,469)
Held-to-maturity securities:Proceeds 141933
Available-for-sale securities:
Proceeds from maturities31,14324,90931,053
Proceeds from sales98,450123,75082,902
Purchases (122,507)(201,530)(81,749)
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans held-for-investment
34,92520,80923,861
Other changes in loans,net
(83,437)(70,837)(40,436)
Net cash received (used) in business acquisitions or dispositions
(70)185(1,039)
All other investing activities,net
(3,903)1,8394,796
Net cash used in investing activities(73,118)
(99,627)(12,944)
Financing activitiesNet change in:Deposits113,51282,10531,415
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
(7,833)36,248(1,862)
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds41,41212,6572,618
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and capital debt securities
95,14156,72143,721
Repayments of long-term debt and capital debt securities
(49,410)(34,267)(26,883)
Net proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
1,4671,659682
Excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation365302Š
Redemption of preferred stockŠ(139)(200)
Treasury stock purchased
(8,178)(3,938)(3,412)
Cash dividends paid(5,051)(4,846)(4,878)
All other financing activities,net
1,5616,2473,868
Net cash provided by financing activities182,986
152,74945,069
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks
424199(387)
Net (decrease) increase in cash and due from banks(268)3,7421,502
Cash and due from banks at the beginning of the year40,41236,67035,168
Cash and due from banks at the end of the year$40,144
$40,412$36,670
Cash interest paid$43,472
$36,415$24,583
Cash income taxes paid 7,4725,5634,758
Note:In 2006,the Firm exchanged selected corporate trust businesses for The Bank of New York™s consumer,business banking and mi
ddle-market banking businesses.The fair values of the
noncash assets exchanged was $2.15 billion.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Global Reports LLC
exercise control over the entity and the assets therein.Entities meeting
these criteria are not consolidated by the transferor or other counter-

parties as long as they do not have the unilateral ability to liquidate

or to cause the entity to no longer meet the QSPE criteria.The Firm

primarily follows the QSPE model for securitizations of its residential
and commercial mortgages,and credit card,automobile and education

loans.For further details,see Note 16 on pages 139Œ145 of this

Annual Report.When an SPE does not meet the QSPE criteria,consolidation is
assessed pursuant to FIN 46R.Under FIN 46R,a VIE is defined as an

entity that:(1) lacks enough equity investment at risk to permit the

entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support from other parties;(2) has equity owners that lack the right

to make significant decisions affecting the entity™s operations;and/or

(3) has equity owners that do not have an obligation to absorb the
entity™s losses or the right to receive the entity™s returns.
FIN 46R requires a variable interest holder (i.e.,a counterparty to a
VIE) to consolidate the VIE if that party will absorb a majority of the

expected losses of the VIE,receive the majority of the expected residual

returns of the VIE,or both.This party is considered the primary bene-

ficiary.In making this determination,the Firm thoroughly evaluates

the VIE™s design,capital structure and relationships among the variable

interest holders.When the primary beneficiary cannot be identified

through a qualitative analysis,the Firm performs a quantitative

analysis,which computes and allocates expected losses or residual

returns to variable interest holders.The allocation of expected cash

flows in this analysis is based upon the relative rights and preferences
of each variable interest holder in the VIE™s capital structure.The Firm

reconsiders whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE when cer-

tain events occur as required by FIN 46R.For further details,see

Note 17 on pages 146Œ154 of this Annual Report.
All retained interests and significant transactions between the Firm,
QSPEs and nonconsolidated VIEs are reflected on JPMorgan Chase™s

Consolidated balance sheets and in the Notes to consolidated 
financial statements.
Investments in companies that are considered to be voting-interestentities under FIN 46R in which the Firm has significant influence
over operating and financing decisions are either accounted for in

accordance with the equity method of accounting or at fair value if

elected under SFAS 159 (ﬁFair Value Optionﬂ).These investments are

generally included in Other assets with income or loss included in

Other income.
For a discussion of the accounting for Private equity investments,see
Note 6 on page 122 of this Annual Report.
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by the Firmare not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included in the
Consolidated balance sheets.
108JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 1ŒBasis of presentation 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂor the ﬁFirmﬂ),a financial
holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968,is a

leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking
institutions in the United States of America (ﬁU.S.ﬂ),with operations

worldwide.The Firm is a leader in investment banking,financial serv-

ices for consumers and businesses,financial transaction processing

and asset management.For a discussion of the Firm™s business seg-

ment information,see Note 34 on pages 175Œ177 of this Annual

Report.The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase
and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (ﬁU.S.GAAPﬂ).Additionally,
where applicable,the policies conform to the accounting and reporting

guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.
Certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified to conformto the current presentation.ConsolidationThe consolidated financial statements include the accounts of

JPMorgan Chase and other entities in which the Firm has a controlling
financial interest.All material intercompany balances and transactions

have been eliminated.The most usual condition for a controlling financial interest is the

ownership of a majority of the voting interests of the entity.However,

a controlling financial interest also may be deemed to exist with
respect to entities,such as special purpose entities (ﬁSPEsﬂ),through

arrangements that do not involve controlling voting interests.
SPEs are an important part of the financial markets,providing market

liquidity by facilitating investors™ access to specific portfolios of
assets and risks.For example,they are critical to the functioning of

the mortgage- and asset-backed securities and commercial paper

markets.SPEs may be organized as 
trusts,partnerships or 
corpora
tionsand are typically established for a single,discrete purpose.SPEs are

not typically operating entities and usually have a limited life and no

employees.The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets

to the SPE.The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing

securities to investors.The legal documents that govern the transaction

describe how the cash earned on the assets must be allocated to the
SPE™s investors and other parties that have rights to those cash

flows.SPEs are generally structured to insulate investors from claims

on the SPE™s assets by creditors of other entities,including the creditors

of the seller of the assets.
There are two different accounting frameworks applicable to SPEs:
the qualifying SPE (ﬁQSPEﬂ) framework under SFAS 140 and the

variable interest entity (ﬁVIEﬂ) framework under FIN 46R.The appli-

cable framework depends on the nature of the entity and the Firm™s

relation to that entity.The QSPE framework is applicable when an

entity transfers (sells) financial assets to an SPE meeting certain criteria

defined in SFAS 140.These criteria are designed to ensure that the

activities of the entity are essentially predetermined at the inception
of the vehicle and that the transferor of the financial assets cannot
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
109Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires manage-

ment to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported

amounts of assets and liabilities,of revenue and expense,and of 

disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.Actual results could be

different from these estimates.For discussion of Critical accounting esti-

mates used by the Firm,see pages 96Œ98 of this Annual Report.
Foreign currency translation
JPMorgan Chase revalues assets,liabilities,revenue and expense

denominated in foreign (i.e.,non-U.S.) currencies into U.S.dollars using

applicable exchange rates.
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency financial
statements for U.S.reporting are included in Other comprehensive

income (loss) within Stockholders™ equity.Gains and losses relating to

nonfunctional currency transactions,including non-U.S.operations

where the functional currency is the U.S.dollar,are reported in the

Consolidated statements of income.
Statements of cash flowsFor JPMorgan Chase™s Consolidated statements of cash flows,cash is

defined as those amounts included in Cash and due from banks.
Significant accounting policiesThe following table identifies JPMorgan Chase™s other significant

accounting policies and the Note and page where a detailed descriptionof each policy can be found.Fair value measurementNote 4Page111
Fair value optionNote 5Page119

Principal transactions activitiesNote 6Page122

Other noninterest revenueNote 7Page123

Pension and other postretirement employee
benefit plansNote 9Page124
Employee stock-based incentivesNote 10Page131

Noninterest expenseNote 11Page134

Securities Note 12Page134

Securities financing activitiesNote 13Page136

LoansNote 14Page137 

Allowance for credit lossesNote 15Page138

Loan securitizationsNote 16Page139

Variable interest entitiesNote 17Page146

Goodwill and other intangible assetsNote 18Page154

Premises and equipmentNote 19Page158

Income taxesNote 26Page164

Commitments and contingenciesNote 29Page167

Accounting for derivative instruments
and hedging activitiesNote 30Page168
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guaranteesNote 31Page170
Note 2Œ Business changes and developments
Purchase of additional interest in Highbridge Capital
Management
In January 2008,JPMorgan Chase acquired an additional equity interest

in Highbridge Capital Management,LLC (ﬁHighbridgeﬁ),a manager of

hedge funds with $27 billion of assets under management.As a result,

the Firm owns 77.5% of Highbridge as of January 2008.The Firm had

acquired a majority interest in Highbridge in 2004.Acquisition of the consumer,business banking and middle-market
banking businesses of The Bank of New York in exchange for

selected corporate trust businesses,including trustee,paying

agent,loan agency and document management services

On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of 

The Bank of New York Company,Inc.™s (ﬁThe Bank of New Yorkﬂ) 

consumer,business banking and middle-market banking businesses in

exchange for selected corporate trust businesses plus a cash payment of

$150 million.The Firm also may make a future payment to The Bank of New

York of up to $50 million depending on certain new account openings.The

acquisition added 339 branches and more than 400 ATMs,and it signifi-

cantly strengthened Retail Financial Services™ distribution network in the
New York tri-state area.The Bank of New York businesses acquired were

valued at a premium of $2.3 billion;the Firm™s corporate trust businesses

that were transferred (i.e.,trustee,paying agent,loan agency and document

management services) were valued at a premium of $2.2 billion.This trans-

action included the acquisition of approximately $7.7 billion in loans net of

Allowance for loan losses and $12.9 billion in deposits from The Bank of

New York.The Firm also recognized core deposit intangibles of $485 million

which will be amortized using an accelerated method over a 10-year period.

JPMorgan Chase recorded an after-tax gain of $622 million related to this

transaction in the fourth quarter of 2006.For additional discussion related

to the transaction,see Note 3 on page 110 of this Annual Report.
JPMorgan Partners management
On August 1,2006,the buyout and growth equity professionals of

JPMorgan Partners (ﬁJPMPﬂ) formed an independent firm,CCMP

Capital,LLC (ﬁCCMPﬂ),and the venture professionals separately

formed an independent firm,Panorama Capital,LLC (ﬁPanoramaﬂ).The

investment professionals of CCMP and Panorama continue to manage

the former JPMP investments pursuant to a management agreement
with the Firm.Sale of insurance underwriting business
On July 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the sale of its life 
insurance and annuity underwriting businesses to Protective Life

Corporation for cash proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion,consisting

of $900 million of cash received from Protective Life Corporation and

approximately $300 million of preclosing dividends received from the

entities sold.The after-tax impact of this transaction was negligible.The

sale included both the heritage Chase insurance business and the insur-

ance business that Bank One had bought from Zurich Insurance in 2003.
Global Reports LLC
110JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Acquisition of private-label credit card portfolio from Kohl™s
Corporation

On April 21,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of

$1.6 billion of private-label credit card receivables and approximately

21 million accounts from Kohl™s Corporation (ﬁKohl™sﬂ).JPMorgan

Chase and Kohl™s have also entered into an agreement under which

JPMorgan Chase will offer private-label credit cards to both new and

existing Kohl™s customers.
Collegiate Funding ServicesOn March 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase acquired,for approximately

$663 million,Collegiate Funding Services,a leader in education loan

servicing and consolidation.This acquisition included $6 billion of

education loans and will enable the Firm to create a comprehensive
education finance business.
BrownCo 
On November 30,2005,JPMorgan Chase sold BrownCo,an on-line

deep-discount brokerage business,to E*TRADE Financial for a cash

purchase price of $1.6 billion.JPMorgan Chase recognized an after-

tax gain of $752 million on the sale.BrownCo™s results of operations

were reported in the Asset Management business segment;however,

the gain on the sale,which was recorded in Other income in the

Consolidated statements of income,was reported in the Corporate

business segment.Sears Canada credit card business 
On November 15,2005,JPMorgan Chase purchased Sears Canada

Inc.™s credit card operation,including both private-label card accounts

and co-branded Sears MasterCard
®accounts,aggregating approxi-
mately 10 million accounts with $2.2 billion (CAD$2.5 billion) in
managed loans.Sears Canada and JPMorgan Chase entered into an

ongoing arrangement under which JPMorgan Chase will offer private-

label and co-branded credit cards to both new and existing customers

of Sears Canada.Chase Merchant Services,Paymentech integration
On October 5,2005,JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corp.complet-

ed the integration of the companies™ jointly owned Chase Merchant

Services and Paymentech merchant businesses,to be operated under

the name Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC.The joint venture is a

financial transaction processor for businesses accepting credit card

payments via traditional point of sale,Internet,catalog and recurring

billing.As a result of the integration into a joint venture,Paymentech

has been deconsolidated and JPMorgan Chase™s ownership interest

in this joint venture is accounted for in accordance with the equity
method of accounting.CazenoveOn February 28,2005,JPMorgan Chase and Cazenove Group plc
(ﬁCazenoveﬂ) formed a business partnership which combined
Cazenove™s investment banking business and JPMorgan Chase™s U.K.-

based investment banking business in order to provide investment
banking services in the United Kingdom and Ireland.The new compa-

ny is called JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings.
Note 3 Œ Discontinued operations 
On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of

The Bank of New York™s consumer,small-business and middle-market

banking businesses in exchange for selected corporate trust business-

es plus a cash payment of $150 million.The Firm may also make a

future payment to The Bank of New York of up to $50 million

depending on certain new account openings.
The transfer of selected corporate trust businesses to The Bank of
New York (see Note 2 above) included the trustee,paying agent,loan

agency and document management services businesses.JPMorgan

Chase recognized an after-tax gain of $622 million on this transac-

tion.The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses

were transferred from the Treasury & Securities Services (ﬁTSSﬂ) seg-

ment to the Corporate segment effective with the second quarter of

2006,and reported as discontinued operations.Condensed financial

information of the selected corporate trust businesses follows.
Selected income statements data(a)Year ended December 31,(in millions)20062005
Other noninterest revenue$407$509

Net interest income
264276
Gain on sale of discontinued operations1,081Š
Total net revenue
1,752785
Noninterest expense
385409
Income from discontinued operations
before income taxes
1,367376
Income tax expense572147
Income from discontinued operations
$795$229
(a)There was no income from discontinued operations during 2007.
The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities associated
with the selected corporate trust businesses related to the Bank of

New York transaction that closed on October 1,2006.
Selected balance sheet data(in millions)October 1,2006
Goodwill and other intangibles$838
Other assets 547
Total assets
$1,385
Deposits $24,011
Other liabilities547
Total liabilities
$24,558
JPMorgan Chase provides certain transitional services to The Bank of
New York for a defined period of time after the closing date.The Bank 
of New York compensates JPMorgan Chase for these transitional services.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
111Note 4 Œ Fair value measurement   
In September 2006,the FASB issued SFAS 157 (ﬁFair Value
Measurementsﬂ),which is effective for fiscal years beginning after

November 15,2007,with early adoption permitted.
The Firm chose
early adoption for SFAS 157 effective January 1,2007.
SFAS 157:
Defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction

between market participants at the measurement date,and

establishes a framework for measuring fair value;
Establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements
based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an

asset or liability as of the measurement date;Nullifies the guidance in EITF 02-3,which required the deferral of
profit at inception of a transaction involving a derivative financial

instrument in the absence of observable data supporting the 

valuation technique;
Eliminates large position discounts for financial instruments quoted
in active markets and requires consideration of the Firm™s credit-

worthiness when valuing liabilities;and
Expands disclosures about instruments measured at fair value.

The Firm also chose early adoption for SFAS 159 effective January 1,
2007.SFAS 159 provides an option to elect fair value as an alterna-

tive measurement for selected financial 
assets,financial liabilities,
unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments notpreviously recorded at fair value.
The Firm elected fair value account-
ing for certain assets and liabilities not previously carried at fair
value.For more information,see Note 5 on pages 119Œ121 of this

Annual Report.Following is a description of the Firm™s valuation methodologies for
assets and liabilities measured at fair value.Such valuation method-

ologies were applied to all of the assets and liabilities carried at fair
value effective January 1,2007,whether as a result of the adoption

of SFAS 159 or previously carried at fair value.
The Firm has an established and well-documented process for deter-

mining fair values.Fair value is based upon quoted market prices,

where available.If listed prices or quotes are not available,fair value is

based upon internally developed models that primarily use,as inputs,

market-based or independently sourced market parameters,including

but not limited to yield curves,interest rates,volatilities,equity or debt

prices,foreign exchange rates and credit curves.In addition to market

information,models also incorporate transaction details,such as

maturity.Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial

instruments are recorded at fair value.These adjustments include

amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality,the Firm™s creditworthi-

ness,constraints on liquidity and unobservable parameters that are

applied consistently over time.
Credit valuation adjustments (ﬁCVAﬂ) are necessary when the
market price (or parameter) is not indicative of the credit quality

of the counterparty.As few classes of derivative contracts are listed

on an exchange,the majority of derivative positions are valued
using internally developed models that use as their basis observable
market parameters.Market practice is to quote parameters 

equivalent to an ﬁAAﬂcredit rating;thus,all counterparties are

assumed to have the same credit quality.Therefore,an adjustment

is necessary to reflect the credit quality of each derivative 

counterparty to arrive at fair value.
Debit valuation adjustments (ﬁDVAﬂ) are necessary to reflect the
credit quality of the Firm in the valuation of liabilities measured

at fair value.This adjustment was incorporated into the Firm™s

valuations commencing January 1,2007,in accordance with

SFAS 157.The methodology to determine the adjustment is 

consistent with CVA and incorporates JPMorgan Chase™s credit

spread as observed through the credit default swap market.
Liquidity valuation adjustments are necessary when the Firm 
may not be able to observe a recent market price for a financial

instrument that trades in inactive (or less active) markets or to

reflect the cost of exiting larger-than-normal market-size risk posi-

tions (liquidity adjustments are not taken for positions classified

within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy).The Firm tries to ascer-

tain the amount of uncertainty in the initial valuation based upon

the degree of liquidity of the market in which the financial instru-

ment trades and makes 
liquidity adjustments to the carrying value of
the financial instrument.The Firm measures 
the liquidity adjustmentbased upon the following factors:(1) the amount of time since the

last relevant pricing point;(2) whether there was an actual trade

or relevant external quote;and (3) the volatility of the principal

risk component of the financial instrument.Costs to exit larger-

than-normal market-size risk positions are determined based 

upon the size of the adverse market move that is likely to occur

during the period required to bring a position down to a noncon-
centrated level.
Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments are necessary

when positions are valued using internally developed models that

use as their basis unobservable parameters Œ that is,parameters

that must be estimated and are,therefore,subject to management

judgment.These positions are 
normally traded less actively.
Examples include certain credit products w
here parameters such as
correlation and recovery rates are unobservable.Unobservable

parameter valuation adjustments are applied to mitigate the possi-

bility of error and revision in the estimate of the market price pro-

vided by the model.The Firm has numerous controls in place intended to ensure that its

fair valuations are appropriate.An independent model review group

reviews the Firm™s valuation models and approves them for use for

specific products.All valuation models within the Firm are subject to

this review process.A price verification group,independent from the

risk taking function,ensures observable market prices and market-

based parameters are used for valuatio
n wherever possible.For those
products with material parameter risk 
for which observable market
levels do not exist,an independent review of the assumptions made
Global Reports LLC
112JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
on pricing is performed.Additional review includes deconstruction of
the model valuations for certain structured instruments into their

components,and benchmarking valuations,where possible,to similar

products;validating valuation estimates through actual cash settle-

ment;and detailed review and explanation of recorded gains and

losses,which are analyzed daily and over time.Valuation adjust-

ments,which are also determined by the independent price verifica-

tion group,are based upon established policies and are applied con-

sistently over time.Any changes to the valuation methodology are

reviewed by management to confirm the changes are justified.As

markets and products develop and the pricing for certain products

becomes more or less transparent,the Firm continues to refine its

valuation methodologies.
The methods described above may produce a fair value calculation
that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of

future fair values.Furthermore,while the Firm believes its valuation

methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants,

the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the

fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different

estimate of fair value at the reporting date.
Valuation Hierarchy
SFAS 157 establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure

of fair value measurements.The valuation hierarchy is based upon

the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as

of the measurement date.The three levels are defined as follows.
Level 1 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices
(unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
Level 2 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted
prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets,and inputs

that are observable for the asset or liability,either directly or indirectly,

for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.
Level 3 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable
and significant to the fair value measurement.
A financial instrument™s categorization within the valuation hierarchy
is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair
value measurement.
Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for
instruments measured at fair value,including the general classification

of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
Assets
Securities purchased under resale agreements 
(ﬁresale agreementsﬂ)
To estimate the fair value of resale agreements,cash flows are

evaluated taking into consideration any derivative features of the

resale agreement and are then discounted using the appropriate
market rates for the applicable maturity.As the inputs into the val-

uation are primarily based upon readily observable pricing infor-

mation,such resale agreements are generally classified within

level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments 

The fair value of corporate loans and unfunded lending-related com-

mitments is calculated using observable market information including

pricing from actual market transactions or broker quotations where

available.Where pricing information is not available for the specific

loan,the valuation is generally based upon quoted market prices of

similar instruments,such as loans and bonds.These comparable

instruments share characteristics that typically include industry,rat-

ing,capital structure,seniority,and consideration of counterparty

credit risk.In addition,general market conditions,including prevailing

market spreads for credit and liquidity risk,are also considered in the

valuation process.
For certain loans that are expected to be securitized,such as com-
mercial and residential mortgages,fair value is estimated based upon

observable pricing of asset-backed securities with similar collateral

and incorporates adjustments (i.e.,reductions) to these prices to

account for securitization uncertainties including portfolio composi-
tion,market conditions and liquidity to arrive at the whole loan price.

When data from recent market transactions is available it is incorpo-

rated as appropriate.If particular loans are determined to be

impaired because of poor borrower performance and hence are not
qualified for securitization,they are marked for individual sale with

consideration of potential liquidation proceeds and property repos-

session/liquidation information,as appropriate.
The Firm™s loans carried at fair value and reported in Trading assets
are generally classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy,

although subprime loans reside in level 3.Loans carried at fair value

and reported within Loans are predominantly classified within level 3
due to the lack of observable pricing.These loans include leveraged

lending funded loans,high-yield bridge financing and purchased

nonperforming loans.
SecuritiesWhere quoted prices are available in an active market,securities are 
classified in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.Level 1 securities included

highly liquid government bonds,mortgage products for which there are

quoted prices in active marketsand exchange-traded equities.If quoted
market prices are not available for the specific security,then fair values

are estimated by using pricing models,quoted prices of securities with

similar characteristics or discounted cash flows.Examples of such instru-

ments are collateralized mortgage obligations and high-yield debt securi-

ties which would generally be classified within level 2 of the valuation hier-
archy.In 
certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency
around inputs to the valuation,securities are classified within level 3 of

the valuation hierarchy.For instance,in the valuation of certain collateral-

ized mortgage and debt obligations and high-yield debt securities the 
determination of fair value may require benchmarking to similar instruments

or analyzing default and recovery rates.For cash collateralized debt obli-

gations (ﬁCDOsﬂ),external price information is not available.Therefore,

cash CDOs are valued using market-standard models,such as Intex,to

model the specific collateral composition and cash flow structure of each

deal;key inputs to the model are market spreads data for each credit rat-

ing,collateral type and other relevant 
contractual 
features.
Asset-backed
securities are valued based on external 
prices or spread data,using currentGlobal Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
113market assumptions on prepayments and defaults.For those asset-backed
securities where the external pri
ce data is not observable or the limited
available data is opaque,the collater
al performance is monitored and thevalue of the security is reviewed versus the ABX index,an index of mort-

gage-backed securities backed by subprime mortgages.
CommoditiesCommodities inventory is carried at the lower of cost or fair value.

The fair value for commodities inventory is determined primarily using

pricing and data derived from the markets on which the underlying

commodities are traded.Market prices may be adjusted for liquidity.

The Firm also has positions in commodity-based derivatives that can

be traded on an exchange or over-the-counter.The pricing inputs to

these derivatives include forward curves of underlying commodities,

basis curves,volatilities,correlations,and occasionally other model

parameters.The valuation of these derivatives is based upon calibrat-

ing to market transactions,as well as to independent pricing informa-

tion from sources such as brokers and dealer consensus pricing servic-

es.Where inputs are unobservable,they are benchmarked to observ-

able market data based upon historic and implied correlations,then

adjusted for uncertainty where appropriate.The majority of commodi-

ties inventory and commodities-based derivatives are classified within

level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
Derivatives
Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices are classified

within level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.However,few classes of

derivative contracts are listed on an exchange;thus,the majority of

the Firm™s derivative positions are valued using internally developed

models that use as their basis readily observable market parameters

Œ that is,parameters that are actively quoted and can be validated to

external sources,including industry pricing services.Depending on

the types and contractual terms of derivatives,fair value can be mod-

eled using a series of techniques,such as the Black-Scholes option

pricing model,simulation models or a combination of various models,

which are consistently applied.Where derivative products have been

established for some time,the Firm uses models that are widely

accepted in the financial services industry.These models reflect the

contractual terms of the derivatives,including the period to maturity,

and market-based parameters such as interest rates,volatility,and

the credit quality of the counterparty.Further,many of these models

do not contain a high level of subjectivity as the methodologies used
in the models do not require significant judgment,and inputs to the

model are readily observable from actively quoted markets,as is the

case for ﬁplain vanillaﬂinterest rate
 swaps and option contracts and
credit default swaps.Such instruments are generally classified within
level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
Derivatives that are valued based upon models with significant unob-
servable market parameters and that are normally traded less actively,
have trade activity that is one way,and/or are traded in less-
devel-oped markets are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.

Level 3 derivatives include credit default swaps referenced to mort-

gage-backed securities,where valuations are benchmarked to implied

spreads from similar underlying loans in the cash market,as well 

as relevant observable market indices.In addition,the prepayment
and loss assumptions on the underlying loans are priced using a
combination of historical data,prices on market transactions,and

other prepayment and default scenarios and analysis.Other complex

products,such as those sensitive to correlation between two or more

underlyings,also fall within level 3 of the hierarchy.For instance,the

correlation sensitivity is material to the overall valuation of options

on baskets of single name stocks;the valuation of these instruments

are typically not observable due to the customized nature.

Correlation for products such as these are typically estimated based
on an observable basket of stocks,then adjusted to reflect the differ-

ences between the underlying equities.
Mortgage servicing rights and certain retained interests 
in securitizations
Mortgage servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ) and certain retained interests
from securitization activities do not trade in an active,open market

with readily observable prices.While sales of MSRs do occur,the 

precise terms and conditions typically are not readily available.

Accordingly,the Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs and certain

other retained interests in securitizations using discounted cash flow
(ﬁDCFﬂ) models.
For MSRs,the Firm uses an option adjusted spread (ﬁOASﬂ) 
valuation model in conjunction with the Firm™s proprietary prepay-

ment model to project MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate

scenarios,which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates to esti-

mate an expected fair value of the MSRs.The OAS model considers

portfolio characteristics,contractually specified servicing fees,

prepayment assumptions,delinquency rates,late charges,other

ancillary revenue,costs to service and other economic factors.The

Firm reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and
assumptions used in the OAS model to reflect market conditions

and assumptions that a market participant would consider in

valuing the MSR asset.Due to the nature of the valuation inputs,

MSRs are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.
For certain retained interests in securitizations (such as interest-

only strips),a single interest rate path DCF model is used and

generally includes assumptions based upon projected finance

charges related to the securitized assets,estimated net credit losses,

prepayment assumptions and contractual interest paid to 

third-party investors.Changes in the assumptions used may have

a significant impact on the Firm™s valuation of retained interests

and such interests are therefore typically classified within level 3
of the valuation hierarchy.
For both MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizations,

the Firm compares its fair value estimates and assumptions to

observable market data where available and to recent market activity

and actual portfolio experience.For further discussion of the most

significant assumptions used to value retained interests in securitiza-

tions and MSRs,as well as the applicable stress tests for those

assumptions,see Note 16 on pages 139Œ145 and Note 18 on pages

154Œ156 of this Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
114JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Private equity investments The valuation of nonpublic private equity investments,held primarily
by the Private Equity business within Corporate,requires significant

management judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices,

inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets.

As such,private equity investments are valued initially based upon

cost.Each quarter,valuations are reviewed utilizing available market

data to determine if the carrying value of these investments should

be adjusted.Such market data primarily includes observations of the

trading multiples of public companies considered comparable to the

private companies being valued.Valuations are adjusted to account

for company-specific issues,the lack of liquidity inherent in a non-

public investment and the fact that comparable public companies

are not identical to the companies being valued.Such valuation

adjustments are necessary because in the absence of a committed
buyer and completion of due diligence similar to that performed in
an actual negotiated sale process,there may be company-specific

issues that are not fully known that may affect value.In addition,a

variety of additional factors are reviewed by management,including,

but not limited to,financing and sales transactions with third par-

ties,current operating performance and future expectations of the

particular investment,changes in market outlook and the third-party

financing environment.The Firm applies its valuation methodology

consistently from period to period,and the Firm believes that its val-

uation methodology and associated valuation adjustments are

appropriate and similar to those used by other market participants.

Nonpublic private equity investments are included in level 3 of the

valuation hierarchy.
Private equity investments also include publicly held equity investments,

generally obtained through the initial public offering of privately held

equity investments.Publicly held investments in liquid markets are

marked-to-market at the quoted public value less adjustments for

regulatory or contractual sales restrictions.Discounts for restrictions

are quantified by analyzing the length of the restriction period and
the volatility of the equity security.Publicly held investments are 

primarily classified in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
LiabilitiesSecurities sold under repurchase agreements (ﬁrepurchase
agreementsﬂ)

To estimate the fair value of repurchase agreements,
cash flows areevaluated taking into consideration any derivative features and are

then discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applica-

ble maturity.As the inputs into the valuation are primarily based

upon observable pricing information,repurchase agreements are

classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
The fair value of beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 

(beneficial interests) is estimated based upon the fair value of the

underlying assets held by the VIEs.The valuation of beneficial interests

does not include an adjustment to reflect the credit quality of the
Firm as the holders of these beneficial interests do not have recourse
to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase.As the inputs into the valu-

ation are generally based upon readily observable pricing information,

the majority of beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs are

classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
Deposits,Other borrowed funds and Long-term debt
Included within Deposits,Other borrowed funds and Long-term debt
are structured notes issued by the Firm that are financial instruments
containing embedded derivatives.To estimate the fair value of struc-

tured notes,cash flows are evaluated taking into consideration any

derivative features and are then discounted using the appropriate

market rates for the applicable maturities.In addition,the valuation 

of structured notes includes an adjustment to reflect the credit quality
of the Firm (i.e.,the DVA).Where the inputs into the valuation are 

primarily based upon readily observable pricing information,the 

structured notes are classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.

Where significant inputs are unobservable,structured notes are classified

within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
115The following table presents the financial instruments carried at fair value as of December 31,2007,by caption on the Consolida
ted balance sheetand by SFAS 157 valuation hierarchy (as described above).
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Quoted market Internal models withInternal models withTotal carrying value
prices in active significant observablesignificant unobservableFIN 39in the Consolidated
December 31,2007
(in millions)markets (Level 1)  market parameters (Level 2)market parameters (Level 3)netting
(d)balance sheetFederal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements$Š$19,131$Š$Š$19,131
Trading assets:
Debt and equity instruments(a)(b)202,483187,72424,066Š414,273
Derivative receivables18,574871,10520,188(832,731)77,136
Total trading assets221,0571,058,82944,254(832,731)491,409
Available-for-sale securities71,94113,364101Š85,406
LoansŠ3598,380Š8,739

Mortgage servicing rightsŠŠ8,632Š8,632

Other assets:
Private equity investments683226,763Š7,153
All other10,7841,0543,160Š14,998
Total other assets10,8521,3769,923Š22,151
Total assets at fair value
$303,850$1,093,059$71,290$(832,731)$635,468
Deposits$Š$5,228$1,161$Š$6,389
Federal funds purchased and securities 
sold under repurchase agreementsŠ5,768ŠŠ5,768
Other borrowed fundsŠ10,672105Š10,777

Trading liabilities:
Debt and equity instruments73,02315,659480Š89,162
Derivative payables19,553852,05519,555(822,458)68,705
Total trading liabilities92,576867,71420,035(822,458)157,867
Accounts payable,accrued expense 
and other liabilities(c)ŠŠ25Š25
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEsŠ2,92282Š3,004
Long-term debt Š48,51821,938Š70,456
Total liabilities at fair value
$92,576$940,822$43,346$(822,458)$254,286
(a)Included loans classified as Trading assets.For additional detail,see Note 6 on page 122 of this Annual Report.
(b)Included physical commodities inventory that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value.

(c)Included within Accounts payable,accrued expense and other liabilities is the fair value adjustment for unfunded lending-rel
ated commitments.
(d)FIN 39 permits the netting of Derivative receivables and Derivative payables when a legally enforceable master netting agree
ment exists between the Firm and a derivative counterparty.
A master netting agreement is an agreement between two counterparties who have multiple derivative contracts with each other th
at provide for the net settlement of all contracts,as
well as cash collateral,through a single payment,in a single currency,in the event of default on or termination of any one cont
ract.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
116JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements 
The table below includes a rollforward of the balance sheet amounts

for the year ended December 31,2007 (including the change in fair

value),for financial instruments classified by the Firm within level 3

of the valuation hierarchy.When a determination is made to classify

a financial instrument within level 3,the determination is based

upon the significance of the unobservable parameters to the overall

fair value measurement.However,level 3 financial instruments typi-

cally include,in addition to the unobservable or level 3 components,

observable components (that is,components that are actively quoted
and can be validated to external sources);accordingly,the gains and
losses in the table below include changes in fair value due in part to

observable factors that are part of the valuation methodology.Also,

the Firm risk manages the observable components of level 3 financial

instruments using securities and derivative positions that are classified

within level 1 or 2 of the valuation hierarchy;as these level 1 and

level 2 risk management instruments are not included below,the

gains or losses in the tables do not reflect the effect of the Firm™s risk

management activities related to such level 3 instruments.
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs
(a)Change in unrealized For the year ended
Total Purchases,
gains and (losses) related to
December 31,2007
Fair value,realized/unrealizedissuances Transfers in and/orFair value,financial instruments
(in millions)January 1,2007gains/(losses)settlements,net  out of Level 3December 31,2007held at December 31,2007
Assets:Trading assets:
Debt and equity instruments$9,320$(916)
(b)(c)$5,902$9,760$24,066$(912)
(b)(c)Net Derivative receivables(2,800)1,674
(b)2571,5026331,979
(b)Available-for-sale securities17738
(d)(21)(93)101(5)
(d)Loans643(346)
(b)8,013708,380(36)
(b)Other assets:
Private equity investments5,4934,051
(b)(2,764)(17)6,7631,711
(b)All other1,59137
(e)1,0594733,160(19)
(e)Liabilities:
Deposits$(385)$(42)
(b)$(667)$(67)
(f)$(1,161)$(38)
(b)Other borrowed fundsŠ(67)(34)(4)
(f)(105)(135)
Trading liabilities:
Debt and equity instruments(32)383
(b)(125)(706)
(f)(480)(734)
(b)Accounts payable,accrued 
expense and other liabilitiesŠ(460)
(b)435Š(25)(25)
(b)Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs(8)61(81)
(f)(82)Š
Long-term debt (11,386)(1,142)
(b)(6,633)(2,777)
(f)(21,938)(468)
(b)(a)MSRs are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.For a rollforward of balance sheet amounts related to MSRs,see
 Note 18 on pages 154Œ157 of this Annual Report.
(b)Reported in Principal transactions revenue.

(c)Changes in fair value for Retail Financial Services mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell are measured at fair v
alue under SFAS 159 and reported in Mortgage fees and
related income.
(d)Realized gains (losses) are reported in Securities gains (losses).Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in Accumulated othe
r comprehensive income (loss).(e)Reported in Other income.

(f)Represents a net transfer of a liability balance.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a 
nonrecurring basis

Certain assets,liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments

are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis;that is,the

instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but

are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances
(for example,when there is evidence of impairment).The following
table presents the financial instruments carried on the Consolidatedbalance sheet by caption and by level within the SFAS 157 valuation
hierarchy (as described above) 
as of December 31,2007,for which a
nonrecurring change in fair value has been recorded during the year

ended December 31,2007.
Internal models withInternal models with 
Quoted market prices  significant observable significant unobservableTotal carrying value
in active marketsmarket parameters market parametersin the Consolidated 
December 31,2007
(in millions)(Level 1)(Level 2)(Level 3)balance sheet
Loans(a)$Š$2,818$16,196$19,014
Other assetsŠ267126393
Total assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
$Š$3,085$16,322$19,407
Accounts payable,accrued expense and other liabilities$Š$Š$103$103
(b)Total liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
$Š$Š$103$103
(a)Includes debt financing and other loan warehouses held-for-sale.
(b)Represents the fair value adjustment associated with $3.2 billion of unfunded held-for-sale lending-related commitments.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
117Nonrecurring fair value changes
The following table presents the total change in value of financial
instruments for which a fair value adjustment has been included in 

the Consolidated statement of income for the year ended December
31,2007,related to financial instruments held at December 31,2007.
Year ended December 31,2007
(in millions) 2007 
Loans$(720)
Other assets(161)

Accounts payable,accrued expense 
and other liabilities2
Total nonrecurring fair value gains (losses)
$(879)
In the above table,Loans principally include changes in fair value for
loans carried on the balance sheet at the lower of cost or fair value;

and Accounts payable,accrued expense and other liabilities principally
includes the change in fair value for unfunded lending-related 

commitments within the leveraged lending portfolio.
Level 3 assets analysis Level 3 assets (including assets measured at the lower of cost or fairvalue) were 5% of total Firm assets at December 31,2007.These

assets increased during 2007 principally during the second half of the
year,when liquidity in mortgages and other credit products fell dra-

matically.The increase was primarily due to an increase in leveraged

loan balances within level 3 as the ability of the Firm to syndicate this
risk to third parties became limited by the credit environment.In addi-

tion,there were transfers from level 2 to level 3 during 2007.These

transfers were principally for instruments within the mortgage market

where inputs which are significant to their valuation became unob-

servable during the year.Subprime and Alt-A whole loans,subprime

home equity securities,commercial mortgage-backed mezzanine loans

and credit default swaps referenced to asset-backed 
securities consti-tuted the majority of the affected instruments,reflecting a significant

decline in liquidity in these instruments in the third and fourth quarters
of 2007,as new issue activity was nonexistent
and independent pric-ing information was no longer available for these assets.
Transition

In connection with the initial adoption of SFAS 157,the Firm recorded

the following on January 1,2007:
A cumulative effect increase to Retained earnings of $287 million,
primarily related to the release of profit previously deferred in
accordance with EITF 02-3;An increase to pretax income of $166 million ($103 million after-tax)
related to the incorporation of the Firm™s creditworthiness in the

valuation of liabilities recorded at fair value;and
An increase to 
pretax incomeof $464 million ($288 million after-tax)
related to valuations of nonpublic private equity investments.
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 157,the Firm applied the provisions of

EITF 02-3 to its derivative portfolio.EITF 02-3 precluded the recogni-

tion of initial trading profit in the absence of:(a) quoted market

prices,(b) observable prices of other current market transactions or 

(c) other observable data supporting a valuation technique.In accor-

dance with EITF 02-3,the Firm recognized the deferred profit in

Principal transactions revenue on a systematic basis (typically straight-

line amortization over the life of the instruments) and when observ-
able market data became available.
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 157 the Firm did not incorporate an
adjustment into the valuation of liabilities carried at fair value on the

Consolidated balance sheet.Commencing January 1,2007,in accor-

dance with the requirements of SFAS 157,
an adjustment was made to
the valuation 
of liabilities measured at fair value to reflect the credit
quality of the Firm.Prior to the adoption of SFAS 157,privately held investments were
initially valued based upon cost.The carrying values of privately held

investments were adjusted from cost to reflect both positive and neg-
ative changes evidenced by financing events with third-party capital
providers.The investments were also subject to ongoing impairment

reviews by private equity senior investment professionals.The increase

in pretax income related to nonpublic Private equity investments in

connection with the adoption of SFAS 157 was due to there being

sufficient market evidence to support an increase in fair values using

the SFAS 157 methodology,although there had not been an actual

third-party market transaction related to such investments.
Financial disclosures required by SFAS 107

SFAS 107 requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of certain

financial instruments and the methods and significant assumptions
used to estimate their fair values.Many but not all of the financial

instruments held by the Firm are recorded at fair value on the

Consolidated balance sheets.Financial instruments within the scope

of SFAS 107 that are not carried at fair value on the Consolidated

balance sheets are discussed below.Additionally,certain financial

instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are excluded from the
scope of SFAS 107.Accordingly,the fair value disclosures required by

SFAS 107 provide only a partial estimate of the fair value of

JPMorgan Chase.For example,the Firm has developed long-term

relationships with its customers through its deposit base and credit
card accounts,commonly referred to as core deposit intangibles and

credit card relationships.In the opinion of management,these items,

in the aggregate,add significant value to JPMorgan Chase,but their

fair value is not disclosed in this Note.
Financial instruments for which fair value approximates
carrying value
Certain financial instruments that are not carried at fair value on the

Consolidated balance sheets are carried at amounts that approxi-

mate fair value due to their short-term nature and generally negligi-

ble credit risk.These instruments include cash and due from banks,

deposits with banks,federal funds sold,securities purchased under

resale agreements with short-dated maturities,securities borrowed,

short-term receivables and accrued interest receivable,commercial

paper,federal funds purchased,securities sold under repurchase

agreements with short-dated maturities,other borrowed funds,

accounts payable and accrued liabilities.In addition,SFAS 107

requires that the fair value for deposit liabilities with no stated matu-

rity (i.e.,demand,savings and certain money market deposits) be

equal to their carrying value.SFAS 107 does not allow for the recog-

nition of the inherent funding value of these instruments.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
118JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
20072006Carrying EstimatedAppreciation/Carrying EstimatedAppreciation/
December 31,(in billions)valuefair value(depreciation)valuefair value(depreciation)
Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value
$160.6$160.6$Š
$150.5$150.5$Š
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale 
agreements (included $19.1 at fair value at December 31,2007)
170.9170.9Š
140.5140.5Š
Trading assets
491.4491.4Š
365.7365.7Š
Securities 85.485.4Š
92.092.0Š
Loans 510.1510.70.6
475.8480.04.2
Mortgage servicing rights at fair value
8.68.6Š
7.57.5Š
Other (included $22.2 at fair value at December 31,2007)
66.667.10.5
54.354.90.6
Total financial assets$1,493.6$1,494.7$1.1
$1,286.3$1,291.1$4.8
Financial liabilitiesDeposits (included $6.4 at fair value at December 31,2007)
$740.7$741.3$(0.6)
$638.8$638.9$(0.1)
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase
agreements (included $5.8 at fair value at December 31,2007)
154.4154.4Š
162.2162.2Š
Commercial paper49.649.6Š
18.818.8Š
Other borrowed funds (included $10.8 at fair value at December 31,2007)
28.828.8Š
18.118.1Š
Trading liabilities
157.9157.9Š
148.0148.0Š
Accounts payable,accrued expense and other liabilities
89.089.0Š
82.582.5Š
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 
(included $3.0 at fair value at December 31,2007)
14.013.90.1
16.216.2Š
Long-term debt and Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures
(included $70.5 and $25.4 at fair value at December 31,2007
and 2006,respectively)
199.0198.70.3
145.6147.1(1.5)
Total financial liabilities$1,433.4$1,433.6$(0.2)
$1,230.2$1,231.8$(1.6)
Net appreciation$0.9
$3.2
Financial instruments for which fair value does not approxi-
mate carrying valueLoansThe majority of the Firm™s loans are not carried at fair value on a

recurring basis on the Consolidated balance sheets nor are they
actively traded.The following describes the inputs and assumptions

that the Firm considers in arriving at an estimate of fair value for the

following portfolios of loans.
WholesaleFair value for the wholesale loan portfolio is estimated,primarily

using the cost of credit derivatives,which is adjusted to account for

the differences in recovery rates between bonds,upon which the cost

of credit derivatives is based,and loans.
ConsumerFair values for consumer installment loans (including automobile

financings and consumer real estate),for which market rates for

comparable loans are readily available,are based upon discounted

cash flows adjusted for prepayments.The discount rate used for

consumer installment loans are based on the current market rates

adjusted for credit,liquidity and other risks that are applicable to a

particular asset class.
Fair value for credit card receivables is based upon discounted

expected cash flows.The discount rates used for credit card receiv-

ables incorporate only the effects of interest rate changes,since the

expected cash flows already reflect an adjustment for credit risk.Interest-bearing depositsFair values of interest-bearing time deposits are estimated by dis-
counting cash flows using the appropriate market rates for the appli-
cable maturity.
Long-term debt related instruments
Fair value for long-term debt,including the junior subordinated

deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed

capital debt securities,is based upon current market rates and is

adjusted for JPMorgan Chase™s credit quality.
Lending-related commitmentsThe majority of the Firm™s unfunded lending-related commitments are

not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated bal-

ance sheets nor are they actively traded.Although there is no liquid

secondary market for wholesale commitments,the Firm estimates the

fair value of its wholesale lending-related commitments primarily

using the cost of credit derivatives (which is adjusted to account for

the difference in recovery rates between bonds,upon which the cost

of credit derivatives is based,and loans) and loan equivalents (which

represent the portion of an unused commitment expected,based upon

the Firm™s average portfolio historical experience,to become outstand-

ing in the event an obligor defaults).The Firm estimates the fair value

of its consumer commitments to extend credit based upon the primary
market prices to originate new commitments.It is the change in cur-

rent primary market prices that provides the estimate of the fair value

of these commitments.On this basis,the estimated fair value of the

Firm™s lending-related commitments at December 31,2007 and 2006,

was a liability of $1.9 billion and $210 million,respectively.
The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair
value of financial assets and liabilities as required by SFAS 107.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
119Note 5 Œ Fair value option
In February 2007,the FASB issued SFAS 159,which is effective for
fiscal years beginning after November 15,2007,with early adoption

permitted.The Firm chose early adoption for SFAS 159 effective

January 1,2007.SFAS 159 provides an option to elect fair value as

an alternative measurement for selected financial assets,financial lia-

bilities,unrecognized firm commitments,and written loan commit-

ments not previously carried at fair value.
Carrying value Transition gain/(loss) Adjusted carrying value 
of financial instruments recorded in of financial instruments
(in millions)as of January 1,2007
(c)Retained earnings(d)as of January 1,2007 
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements$12,970$(21)$12,949
Trading assets Œ Debt and equity instruments28,8413228,873

Loans75955814
Other assets(a)1,176141,190
Deposits(b)(4,427)21(4,406)
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements(6,325)20(6,305)

Other borrowed funds(5,502)(4)(5,506)

Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs(2,339)5(2,334)
Long-term debt (39,025)198(38,827)
Pretax cumulative effect of adoption of SFAS 159
320Deferred income taxes(122)Reclassification from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)1
Cumulative effect of adoption of SFAS 159
$199
(a)Included in Other assets are items,such as receivables,that are eligible for the fair value option election but were not ele
cted by the Firm as these assets are not managed on a fairvalue basis.
(b)Included within Deposits are structured deposits that are carried at fair value pursuant to the fair value option.Other time
 deposits which are eligible for election,but are not man-
aged on a fair value basis,continue to be carried on an accrual basis.Demand deposits are not eligible for election under the f
air value option.
(c)Included in the January 1,2007,carrying values are certain financial instruments previously carried at fair value by the Fir
m such as structured liabilities elected pursuant to SFAS 155
and loans purchased as part of the Investment Bank™s trading activities.
(d)When fair value elections were made,certain financial instruments were reclassified on the Consolidated balance sheet (for e
xample,warehouse loans were moved from Loans to
Trading assets).The transition adjustment for these financial instruments has been included in the line item in which they were
 classified subsequent to the fair value election.
The Firm™s fair value elections were intended to mitigate the volatility
in earnings that had been created by recording financial instruments
and the related risk management instruments on a different basis 
of accounting or to eliminate the operational complexities of 

applying hedge accounting.The following table provides detail

regarding the Firm™s elections by consolidated balance sheet line 

as of January 1,2007.
ElectionsThe following is a discussion of the primary financial instruments for
which fair value elections were made and the basis for those elections:
Loans and unfunded lending-related commitmentsOn January 1,2007,the Firm elected to record,at fair value,

the following:Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments that are
extended as part of the Investment Bank™s principal investing

activities.The transition amount related to these loans included 

a reversal of the Allowance for loan losses of $56 million.
Certain Loans held-for-sale.These loans were reclassified to Trading
assets Œ Debt and equity instruments.This election enabled the

Firm to record loans purchased as part of the Investment Bank™s

commercial mortgage securitization activity and proprietary activities
at fair value and discontinue SFAS 133 fair value hedge relationships

for certain originated loans.
Beginning on January 1,2007,the Firm chose to elect fair value as

the measurement attribute for the following loans originated or 
purchased after that date:Loans purchased or originated as part of the 
Investment Bank™s
securitization warehousing activities 
Prime mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell within
Retail Financial Services (ﬁRFSﬂ)Warehouse loans elected to be reported at fair value are classified 
as Trading assets Œ Debt and equity instruments.For additional infor-

mation regarding warehouse loans,see Note 16 on pages 139Œ145

of this Annual Report.
The election to fair value the above loans did not include loans with-
in these portfolios that existed on January 1,2007,based upon the

short holding period of the loans and/or the negligible impact of the
elections.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2007,the Firm elected the fair

value option for newly originated bridge financing activity in the

Investment Bank (ﬁIBﬂ).These elections were made to align further

the accounting basis of the bridge financing activities with their
related risk management practices.For these activities the loans

continue to be classified within Loans on the Consolidated balance
sheet;the fair value of the unfunded commitments is recorded

within Accounts payable,accrued expense and other liabilities.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
120JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Resale and Repurchase AgreementsOn January 1,2007,the Firm elected to record at fair value resale and
repurchase agreements with an embedded derivative or a maturity

greater than one year.The intent of this election was to mitigate

volatility due to the differences in the measurement basis for the
agreements (which were previously accounted for on an accrual basis)
and the associated risk management arrangements (which are

accounted for on a fair value basis).An election was not made for

short-term agreements as the carrying value for such agreements 

generally approximates fair value.For additional information regarding

these agreements,see Note 13 on page 136 of this Annual Report.
Structured NotesThe IB issues structured notes as part of its client-driven activities.

Structured notes are financial instruments that contain embedded deriv-
atives and are included in Long-term debt.On January 1,2007,the

Firm elected to record at fair value all structured notes not previously

elected or eligible for election under SFAS 155.The election was 
madeto mitigate the volatility due to the differences in the measurement
basis for structured notes and the associated risk management arrange-

ments and to eliminate the operational burdens of having different

accounting models for the same type of financial instrument.Changes in Fair Value under the Fair Value option election
The following table presents the changes in fair value included in the

Consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31,
2007,for items for which the fair value election was made.The profit

and loss information presented below only includes the financial
instruments that were elected to be measured at fair value;related

risk management instruments,which are required to be measured at

fair value,are not included in the table.
Year ended
December 31,2007
PrincipalTotal changes in 
(in millions)transactions
(b)Otherfair value recorded 
Federal funds sold and 
securities purchased 

under resale agreements$580$Š$580
Trading assets:
Debt and equity instruments,
excluding loans 421(1)
(c)420Loans reported as trading assets:
Changes in instrument-specific credit risk(517)(157)
(c)(674)Other changes in fair value1881,033
(c)1,221Loans:Changes in instrument-specific credit risk102Š102
Other changes in fair value40Š40
Other assetsŠ30
(d)30Deposits(a)(906)Š(906)
Federal funds purchased and 
securities sold under repurchase 
agreements(78)Š(78)
Other borrowed funds(a)(412)Š(412)

Trading liabilities(17)Š(17)

Accounts payable,accrued  
expense and other liabilities(460)Š(460)
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs(228)Š(228)
Long-term debt:Changes in instrument-specific 
credit risk(a)771Š771
Other changes in fair value(2,985)Š(2,985)
(a)Total changes in instrument-specific credit risk related to structured notes was 
$806 million for the year ended December 31,2007,which includes adjustments

for structured notes classified within Deposits and Other borrowed funds as well as
Long-term debt.(b)Included in the amounts are gains and losses related to certain financial instru-
ments previously carried at fair value by the Firm such as structured liabilities elect-

ed pursuant to SFAS 155 and loans purchased as part of IB trading activities.
(c)Reported in Mortgage Fees and related income.

(d)Reported in Other income.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
121Determination of instrument-specific credit risk for items
for which a fair value election was made

The following describes how the gains and losses included in earnings

during 2007 that were attributable to changes in instrument-specific
credit risk were determined:
Loans:for floating-rate instruments,changes in value are all attrib-
uted to instrument-specific credit risk.For fixed-rate instruments,

an allocation of the changes in value for the period is made
between those changes in value that are interest rate-related 

and changes in value that are credit-related.Allocations are gen-

erally based upon an analysis of borrower-specific credit spread

and recovery information,where available,or benchmarking to

similar entities or industries.
Long term debt:changes in value attributable to instrumentŒ
specific credit risk were derived principally from observable
changes in the Firm™s credit spread.The gain for 2007,was
attributable to the widening of the Firm™s credit spread.
Resale and repurchase agreements:generally,with a resale or
repurchase agreement,there is a requirement that collateral be

maintained with a market value equal to or in excess of the prin-

cipal amount loaned.As a result,there would be no adjustment

or an immaterial adjustment for instrument-specific credit related

to these agreements.
Difference between aggregate fair value and aggregate
remaining contractual principal balance outstanding 
The following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair

value and the aggregate remaining contractual principal balance out-

standing as of December 31,2007,for Loans and Long-term debt for

which the SFAS 159 fair value option has been elected.The loans were

classified in Trading assets Œ debt and equity instruments or Loans.
Remaining aggregate Fair value over (under) 
contractual principal remaining aggregate contractual
December 31,2007
(in millions)amount outstandingFair valueprincipal amount outstanding
LoansPerforming loans 90 days or more past due
Loans reported as Trading assets$Š$Š$Š

Loans1111Š
Nonaccrual loansLoans reported as Trading assets3,0441,176(1,868)
Loans155(10)
Subtotal3,0701,192(1,878)
All other performing loansLoans reported as Trading assets56,16456,638474
Loans9,0118,580(431)
Total loans
$68,245$66,410$(1,835)
Long-term debtPrincipal protected debt$(24,262)$(24,033)$(229)
Nonprincipal protected debt(a)NA(46,423)NA
Total Long-term debt 
NA$(70,456)NA
FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests
Principal protected debt$(58)$(58)$Š
Nonprincipal protected debt(a)NA(2,946)NA
Total FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests
NA$(3,004)NA
(a)Remaining contractual principal not applicable as the return of principal is based upon performance of an underlying variabl
e,and therefore may not occur in full.
At December 31,2007,the fair value of unfunded lending-related commitments for which the fair value option was elected was a $2
5 million liability,which is included in Accounts payable,accrued expense and other liabilities.The contractual amount of such commitment
s was $1.0 billion.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
122JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 6 ŒPrincipal transactions
Principal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized
gains and losses from trading activities (including physical commodities

inventories that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value),

changes in fair value associated with financial instruments held by

the Investment Bank for which the SFAS 159 fair value option was

elected,and loans held-for-sale within the wholesale lines of business.

For loans measured at fair value under SFAS 159,
origination costsare recognized in the associated expense category as incurred.
Principal transactions revenue also includes private equity
gains and losses.
The following table presents Principal transactions revenue.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Trading revenue
$4,736
$9,418$6,263
Private equity gains
(a)4,2791,3601,809
Principal transactions$9,015
$10,778$8,072
(a)Includes Private Equity revenue on investments held in the Private Equity business
within Corporate and those held in other business segments.
Trading assets and liabilities
Trading assets include debt and equity instruments held for trading 
purposes that JPMorgan Chase owns (ﬁlongﬂpositions),certain loans

for which the Firm manages on a fair value basis and has elected the

SFAS 159 fair value option and physical commodities inventories that

are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value.Trading liabilities

include debt and equity instruments that the Firm has sold to other parties
but does not own (ﬁshortﬂpositions).The Firm is obligated to purchase

instruments at a future date to cover the short positions.Included in

Trading assets and Trading liabilities are the reported receivables (unre-

alized gains) and payables (unrealized losses) related to derivatives.

Trading positions are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance

sheets.For a discussion of the valuation of Trading assets and Trading

liabilities,see Note 4 on pages 111Œ118 of this Annual Report.
The following table presents the fair value of Trading assets and

Trading liabilities for the dates indicated.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006Trading assets
Debt and equity instruments:
U.S.government and federal agency 
obligations $36,535
$17,358
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise 
obligations 43,83828,544Obligations of state and political subdivisions
13,0909,569Certificates of deposit,bankers™ acceptances
and commercial paper8,2528,204Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
69,60658,387Corporate debt securities 
51,03362,064Equity securities91,21286,862Loans(a)57,81416,595Other(b)42,89322,554Total debt and equity instruments414,273
310,137Derivative receivables:
(c)Interest rate 
36,02028,932Credit derivatives
22,0835,732Commodity9,41910,431Foreign exchange 
5,6164,260Equity3,9986,246Total derivative receivables77,136
55,601Total trading assets$491,409
$365,738December 31,(in millions)
20072006Trading liabilities
Debt and equity instruments(d)$89,162
$90,488
Derivative payables:
(c)Interest rate 
25,54222,738Credit derivatives
11,6136,003Commodity6,9427,329Foreign exchange 
7,5524,820Equity17,05616,579Total derivative payables68,705
57,469Total trading liabilities$157,867
$147,957(a)The increase from December 31,2006,is primarily related to loans for which the
SFAS 159 fair value option has been elected.
(b)Consists primarily of private-label mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed 
securities.
(c)Included in Trading assets and Trading liabilities are the reported receivables (unreal-
ized gains) and payables (unrealized losses) related to derivatives.These amounts are

reported net of cash received and paid of $34.9 billion and $24.6 billion,respectively,

at December 31,2007,and $23.0 billion and $18.8 billion,respectively,at December

31,2006,under legally enforceable master netting agreements.
(d)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Average Trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods
indicated.Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Trading assets Œ debt and 
equity instruments$381,415
$280,079$237,073
Trading assets Œ derivative receivables
65,43957,36857,365
Trading liabilities Œ debt and 
equity instruments(a)$94,737
$102,794$93,102
Trading liabilities Œ derivative payables
65,19857,93855,723
(a)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Private equity Private equity investments are recorded in Other assets on the
Consolidated balance sheet.The following table presents the carrying

value and cost of the Private equity investment portfolio,
held by thePrivate Equity business within Corporate,
for the dates indicated.December 31,20072006(a)(in millions)Carrying valueCostCarrying valueCost
Total private equity
investments$7,153$6,231
$6,081$7,326
(a)2006 has been revised to reflect the current presentation.
Private Equity includes investments in buyouts,growth equity and venture
opportunities.These investments are accounted for under investment

company guidelines.Accordingly,these investments,irrespective of the

percentage of equity ownership interest held,are carried on the

Consolidated balance sheets at fair value.Realized and unrealized gains

and losses arising from changes in value are reported in Principal transac-

tions revenue in the Consolidated statements of income in the period

that the gains or losses occur.For a discussion of the valuation of Private

equity investments,see Note 4 on pages 111Œ118 of this Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
123Note 7 ŒOther noninterest revenue 
Investment banking feesThis revenue category includes advisory and equity and debt underwriting
fees.Advisory fees are recognized as revenue when the related services

have been performed.Underwriting fees are recognized as revenue when

the Firm has rendered all services to the issuer and is entitled to collect
the fee from the issuer,as long as there are no other contingencies asso-

ciated with the fee (e.g.,the fee is not contingent upon the customer

obtaining financing).Underwriting fees are net of syndicate expense.The

Firm recognizes credit arrangement and syndication fees as revenue after

satisfying certain retention,timing and yield criteria.
The following table presents the components of Investment banking fees.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Underwriting:Equity$1,713
$1,179$864
Debt2,6502,7031,969
Total Underwriting4,363
3,8822,833
Advisory2,2721,6381,255
Total$6,635
$5,520$4,088
Lending & deposit-related fees 
This revenue category includes fees from loan commitments,standby

letters of credit,financial guarantees,deposit-related fees in lieu of

compensating balances,cash management-related activities or trans-

actions,deposit accounts and other loan servicing activities.These

fees are recognized over the period in which the related service is
provided.Asset management,administration and commissions 
This revenue category includes fees from investment management

and related services,custody,brokerage services,insurance premiums

and commissions and other products.These fees are recognized over

the period in which the related service is provided.Performance-

based fees,which are earned based upon exceeding certain bench-

marks or other performance targets,are accrued and recognized at

the end of the performance period in which the target is met.Mortgage fees and related income
This revenue category primarily reflects Retail Financial Services™ mort-
gage banking revenue,including fees and income derived from mort-

gages originated with the intent to sell;mortgage sales and servicing;

the impact of risk management activities associated with the mort-
gage pipeline,warehouse and MSRs;and revenue related to any resid-

ual interests held from mortgage securitizations.This revenue category

also includes gains and losses on sales and lower of cost or fair value

adjustments for mortgage loans held-for-sale,as well as changes in

fair value for mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell and

measured at fair value under SFAS 159.For loans measured at fair

value under SFAS 159,origination costs are recognized in the associ-

ated expense category
as incurred.Costs to originate loans held-for-
sale and accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value are deferred
and recognized as a component of the gain or loss on sale.Net inter-
est income from mortgage loans and securities gains and losses on
available-for-sale (ﬁAFSﬂ) securities used in mortgage-related risk

management activities are not included in Mortgage fees and related
income.For a further discussion of MSRs,see Note 18 on pages

154Œ156 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income

This revenue category includes interchange income from credit and

debit cards and servicing fees earned in connection with securitiza-
tion activities.Volume-related payments to partners and expense for

rewards programs are netted against interchange income.Expense

related to rewards programs are recorded when the rewards are

earned by the customer.Other fee revenue is recognized as earned,

except for annual fees,which are deferred and recognized on a

straight-line basis over the 12-month period to which they pertain.

Direct loan origination costs are also deferred and recognized over a
12-month period.Credit card revenue sharing agreements The Firm has contractual agreements with numerous affinity organi-

zations and co-brand partners,which grant the Firm exclusive rights

to market to the members or customers of such organizations and

partners.These organizations and partners endorse the credit card

programs and provide their mailing lists to the Firm,and they may

also conduct marketing activities and provide awards under the vari-

ous credit card programs.The terms of these agreements generally

range from three to 10 years.The economic incentives the Firm pays

to the endorsing organizations and partners typically include pay-
ments based upon new account originations,charge volumes,and

the cost of the endorsing organizations™ or partners™ marketing activ-

ities and awards.
The Firm recognizes the payments made to the affinity organizations

and co-brand partners based upon new account originations as direct

loan origination costs.Payments based upon charge volumes are con-

sidered by the Firm as revenue sharing with the affinity organizations
and co-brand partners,which are deducted from Credit card income 

as the related revenue is earned.Payments based upon marketing

efforts undertaken by the endorsing organization or partner are

expensed by the Firm as incurred.These costs are recorded within

Noninterest expense.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
124JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 8 ŒInterest income and Interest expense
Details of Interest income and Interest expense were as follows.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Interest income
(a)Loans$36,660
$33,121$26,056
Securities5,2324,1473,129
Trading assets
17,04110,9429,117
Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements6,4975,5783,562
Securities borrowed4,5393,4021,618
Deposits with banks1,4181,265660
Interests in purchased receivables
(b)Š652933
Total interest income71,387
59,10745,075
Interest expense
(a)Interest-bearing deposits21,65317,0429,986
Short-term and other liabilities16,14214,08610,002
Long-term debt6,6065,5034,160
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs5801,2341,372
Total interest expense44,981
37,86525,520
Net interest income26,406
21,24219,555
Provision for credit losses6,8643,2703,483
Net interest income after Provision 
forcredit losses$19,542
$17,972$16,072
(a)  Interest income and Interest expense include the current period interest accruals forfinancial instruments measured at fair value except for financial instruments containing

embedded derivatives that would be separately accounted for in accordance with SFAS

133 absent the SFAS 159 fair value election;for those instruments,all changes in

value,including any interest elements,are reported in Principal transactions revenue.
(b)As a result of restructuring certain multi-seller conduits the Firm administers,
JPMorgan Chase deconsolidated $29 billion of Interests in purchased receivables,

$3 billion of Loans and $1 billion of Securities,and recorded $33 billion of lending-

related commitments during the second quarter of 2006.Note 9 ŒPension and other postretirement
employee benefit plansThe Firm™s defined benefit pension plans are accounted for in accordance with
SFAS 87 and SFAS 88,and its other postretirement employee benefit

(ﬁOPEBﬂ) plans are accounted for in accordance with SFAS 106.In September

2006,the FASB issued SFAS 158,which requires companies to recognize on

their Consolidated balance sheets the overfunded or underfunded status of
their defined benefit postretirement plans,measured as the difference

between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation.SFAS 158

requires unrecognized amounts (e.g.,net loss and prior service costs) to be

recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (ﬁAOCIﬂ) and that

these amounts be adjusted as they are subsequently recognized as compo-
nents of net periodic benefit cost based upon the current amortization and
recognition requirements of SFAS 87 and SFAS 106.The Firm prospectively

adopted SFAS 158 on December 31,2006,and recorded an after-tax charge

to AOCI of $1.1 billion at that date.
SFAS 158 also eliminates the provisions of SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 that

allow plan assets and obligations to be measured as of a date not more
than three months prior to the reporting entity™s balance sheet date.The

Firm uses a measurement date of December 31 for its defined benefit
pension and OPEB plans;therefore,this provision of SFAS 158 had no

effect on the Firm™s financial statements.
For the Firm™s defined benefit pension plans,fair value is used to deter-
mine the expected return on plan assets.For the Firm™s OPEB plans,a

calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year

period is used to determine the expected return on plan assets.

Amortization of net gains and losses is included in annual net periodic
benefit cost if,as of the beginning of the year,the net gain or loss

exceeds 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or
the fair value of the plan assets.Any excess,as well as prior service

costs,are amortized over the average future service period of defined

benefit pension plan participants,which for the U.S.defined benefit pen-

sion plan is currently 10 years.For OPEB plans,any excess net gains and

losses also are amortized over the average future service period,which

is currently six years;however,prior service costs are amortized over the

average years of service remaining to full eligibility age,which is cur-

rently four years.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
125Defined benefit pension plans The Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S.defined benefit pension

plan that provides benefits to substantially all U.S.employees.The

U.S.plan employs a cash balance formula,in the form of pay and

interest credits,to determine the benefits to be provided at retire-

ment,based upon eligible compensation and years of service.

Employees begin to accrue plan benefits after completing one year of
service,and benefits generally vest after five years of service (effec-

tive January 1,2008,benefits will vest after three years of service).

The Firm also offers benefits through defined benefit pension plans

to qualifying employees in certain non-U.S.locations based upon fac-

tors such as eligible compensation,age and/or years of service.
It is the Firm™s policy to fund the pension plans in amounts sufficient
to meet the requirements under applicable employee benefit and
local tax laws.The amount of potential 2008 contributions to its U.S.

defined benefit pension plans,if any,is not reasonably estimable at

this time.The amount of potential 2008 contributions to its non-U.S.

defined benefit pension plans is $33 million.JPMorgan Chase also has a number of defined benefit pension plans not
subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.The

most significant of these plans is the Excess Retirement Plan,pursuant

to which certain employees earn pay and interest credits on compensa-
tion amounts above the maximum stipulated by law under a qualified
plan.The Excess Retirement Plan is a nonqualified,noncontributory U.S.

pension plan with an unfunded projected benefit obligation in theamount of $262 million and $301 million,at December 31,2007 and
2006,respectively.
Defined contribution plansJPMorgan Chase offers several defined contribution plans in the U.S.

and in certain non-U.S.locations,all of which are administered in

accordance with applicable local laws and regulations.The most sig-

nificant of these plans is The JPMorgan Chase 401(k) Savings Plan

(the ﬁ401(k) Savings Planﬂ),which covers substantially all U.S.

employees.The 401(k) Savings Plan allows employees to make pretax

and Roth 401(k) contributions to tax-deferred investment portfolios.
The JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Fund,which is an investment
option under the 401(k) Savings Plan,is a nonleveraged employee

stock ownership plan.The Firm matches eligible employee contribu-

tions up to a certain percentage of benefits-eligible compensation per
pay period,subject to plan and legal limits.Employees begin to

receive matching contributions after completing a one-year-of-service
requirement and are immediately vestedin the Firm™s contributions
when made.Employees with total annual cash compensation of

$250,000 or more are not eligible for matching contributions.The

401(k) Savings Plan also permits discretionary profit-sharing contribu-
tions by participating companies for certain employees,subject to a

specified vesting schedule.
OPEB plans
JPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and life insurance

benefits (ﬁOPEBﬂ) to certain retirees and postretirement medical
benefits to qualifying U.S.employees.These benefits vary with length

of service and date of hire and provide for limits on the Firm™s share

of covered medical benefits.The medical benefits are contributory,

while the life insurance benefits are noncontributory.Postretirement

medical benefits also are offered to qualifying U.K.employees.
JPMorgan Chase™s U.S.OPEB obligation is funded with corporate-
owned life insurance (ﬁCOLIﬂ) purchased on the lives of eligible

employees and retirees.While the Firm owns the COLI policies,COLI

proceeds (death benefits,withdrawals and other distributions) may

be used only to reimburse the Firm for its net postretirement benefit

claim payments and related administrative expense.The U.K.OPEB

plan is unfunded.Global Reports LLC
The following table presents pension and OPEB amounts recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),before tax.
Defined benefit pension plansAs of or for the year ended December 31,U.S.Non-U.S.OPEB plans
(in millions)200720062007200620072006Net loss $(250)
$(783)
$(434)
$(669)
$(98)
$(335)
Prior service cost (credit)
(31)(36)2Š5877Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss),before tax,end of year$(281)
$(819)
$(432)
$(669)
$(40)
$(258)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
126JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Defined benefit pension plansAs of or for the year ended December 31,U.S.Non-U.S.OPEB plans
(d)(in millions)200720062007200620072006Change in benefit obligationBenefit obligation,beginning of year 
$(8,098)
$(8,054)
$(2,917)
$(2,378)
$(1,443)
$(1,395)
Benefits earned during the year(270)(281)(36)(37)(7)(9)Interest cost on benefit obligations(468)(452)(144)(120)(74)(78)Plan amendmentsŠŠ22ŠŠLiabilities of newly material plansŠŠ(5)(154)(c)ŠŠEmployee contributionsNANA(3)(2)(57)(50)Net gain (loss)494(200)327(23)231(55)Benefits paid7898569068165177Expected Medicare Part D subsidy receipts
NANANANA(11)(13)CurtailmentsŠ3342(6)(12)SettlementsŠŠ2437ŠŠSpecial termination benefitsŠŠ(1)(1)(1)(2)Foreign exchange impact and other
(3)Š(84)(311)(1)(6)Benefit obligation,end of year$(7,556)
$(8,098)
$(2,743)
$(2,917)
$(1,204)
$(1,443)
Change in plan assetsFair value of plan assets,beginning of year
$9,955
$9,617 
$2,813
$2,223
$1,351
$1,329
Actual return on plan assets7531,151579487120Firm contributions37439224132Employee contributionsŠŠ32ŠŠAssets of newly material plansŠŠ367(c)ŠŠBenefits paid(789)(856)(90)(68)(35)(100)SettlementsŠŠ(24)(37)ŠŠForeign exchange impact and other
4Š79291ŠŠFair value of plan assets,end of year$9,960
(b)$9,955
(b)$2,933
$2,813
$1,406
$1,351
Funded (unfunded) status(a)$2,404
$1,857
$190
$(104)
$202
$(92)
Accumulated benefit obligation,end of year$(7,184)
$(7,679)
$(2,708)
$(2,849)
NANA(a)Overfunded plans with an aggregate balance of $3.3 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,are re
corded in Other assets.Underfunded plans with an
aggregate balance of $491 million and $596 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,are recorded in Accounts payable,a
ccrued expense and other liabilities.
(b)At December 31,2007 and 2006,approximately $299 million and $282 million,respectively,of U.S.plan assets related to particip
ation rights under participating annuity contracts.
(c)Reflects adjustments related to pension plans in Germany and Switzerland,which have defined benefit pension obligations that
 were not previously measured under SFAS 87 due to
immateriality.
(d)Includes an unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of $49 million and $52 million at December 31,2007 and 20
06,respectively,for the U.K.plan.
The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets,funded status and accumulated benefit obligatio
ns amountsreported on the Consolidated balance sheets for the Firm™s U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
127The following table presents the components of Net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated statements of income and
 Other com-
prehensive income for the Firm™s U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.
Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.
OPEB plansYear ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
200720062005
200720062005
Components of Net periodic benefit costBenefits earned during the year$270
$281$293
$36
$37$25
$7$9$13
Interest cost on benefit obligations468452453
144120104
747881
Expected return on plan assets(714)(692)(694)
(153)(122)(109)
(93)(93)(90)
Amortization:Net lossŠ124
554538
142912
Prior service cost (credit)555ŠŠ1(16)(19)(10)
Curtailment (gain) lossŠ23Š1Š22(17)
Settlement (gain) lossŠŠŠ(1)4ŠŠŠŠSpecial termination benefitsŠŠŠ11Š121Net periodic benefit cost 296064
828659
(11)8(10)
Other defined benefit pension plans
(a)423273639
NANANA
Total defined benefit plans 
336267
10912298
(11)8(10)
Total defined contribution plans 
268254237
219199155
NANANA
Total pension and OPEB cost included in
Compensation expense$301
$316$304
$328
$321$253
$(11)
$8$(10)
Changes in plan assets and benefitobligations recognized in Other 

comprehensive income

Net gain arising during the year$(533)
NANA
$(176)
NANA
$(223)NANA
Prior service credit arising during the year
ŠNANA
(2)NANA
ŠNANA
Amortization of net lossŠNANA
(55)NANA
(14)NANA
Amortization of prior service cost (credit)(5)NANA
ŠNANA
16NANA
Curtailment (gain) lossŠNANA
(5)NANA
3NANA
Settlement lossŠNANA
1NANA
ŠNANA
Total recognized in Other 
comprehensive income
(538)NANA
(237)NANA
(218)NANA
Total recognized in Net periodic benefit cost 
and Other comprehensive income$
(509)NANA
$(155)
NANA
$(229)NANA
(a)Includes various defined benefit pension plans,which are individually immaterial.
Global Reports LLC
The estimated amounts that will be amortized from AOCI into Net periodic benefit cost,before tax,in 2008 are as follows.
Defined benefit pension plansOPEB plans
Year ended December 31,2008 (in millions)
U.S.Non-U.S.U.S.Non-U.S.
Net loss$Š$27$Š$Š
Prior service cost (credit)4Š
(15)Š
Total
$4$27$(15)$Š
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
128JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Plan assumptionsJPMorgan Chase™s expected long-term rate of return for U.S.defined

benefit pension and OPEB plan assets is a blended average of the

investment advisor™s projected long-term (10 years or more) returns

for the various asset classes,weighted by the asset allocation.

Returns on asset classes are developed using a forward-looking

building-block approach and are not strictly based upon historical
returns.Equity returns are generally developed as the sum of infla-

tion,expected real earnings growth and expected long-term divi-

dend yield.Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of

inflation,real bond yield and risk spread (as appropriate),adjusted

for the expected effect on returns from changing yields.Other asset-

class returns are derived from their relationship to the equity and
bond markets.
For the U.K.defined benefit pension plans,which represent the most
significant of the non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans,procedures

similar to those in the U.S.are used to develop the expected long-

term rate of return on defined benefit pension plan assets,taking

into consideration local market conditions and the specific allocation

of plan assets.The expected long-term rate of return on U.K.plan

assets is an average of projected long-term returns for each asset

class,selected by reference to the yield on long-term U.K.govern-

ment bonds and ﬁAAﬂ-rated long-term corporate bonds,plus an

equity risk premium above the risk-free rate.
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations
U.S.Non-U.S.
December 31,2007200620072006Discount rate:
Defined benefit pension plans6.60%5.95%2.25-5.80%2.25-5.10%OPEB plans6.605.905.805.10Rate of compensation increase4.004.003.00-4.253.00-4.00Health care cost trend rate:
Assumed for next year9.2510.005.756.63Ultimate5.005.004.004.00Year when rate will reach ultimate
2014201420102010The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation under
the U.S.
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans was selected by
reference to the yield on a portfolio of bonds with redemption dates
and coupons that closely match each of the plan™s projected cash

flows;such portfolio is derived from a broad-based universe of high-

quality corporate bonds as of the measurement date.In years in

which this hypothetical bond portfolio generates excess cash,such

excess is assumed to be reinvested at the one-year forward rates

implied by the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve published as of the

measurement date.The discount rate for the U.K.defined benefit pen-

sion and OPEB plans represents a rate implied from the yield curve of

the year-end iBoxx £ corporate ﬁAAﬂ15-year-plus bond index with a

duration corresponding to that of the underlying benefit obligations.
The following tables present the weighted-average annualized actu-

arial assumptions for the projected and accumulated postretirement

benefit obligations and the components of net periodic benefit costs
for the Firm™s U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB

plans,as of and for the periods indicated.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
129Weighted-average assumptions used to determine Net periodic benefit costs
U.S.Non-U.S.
Year ended December 31,
200720062005
200720062005
Discount rate:
Defined benefit pension plans5.95%5.70%5.75%
2.25-5.10%2.00-4.70%2.00-5.30%
OPEB plans5.905.655.25-5.75
(a)5.104.705.30
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets:
Defined benefit pension plans7.507.507.50
3.25-5.603.25-5.503.25-5.75
OPEB plans7.006.846.80
NANANA
Rate of compensation increase4.004.004.00
3.00-4.003.00-3.751.75-3.75
Health care cost trend rate:
Assumed for next year10.0010.0010.00
6.637.507.50
Ultimate5.005.005.00
4.004.004.00
Year when rate will reach ultimate
201420132012
201020102010
(a)The OPEB plan was remeasured as of August 1,2005,and a rate of 5.25% was used from the period of August 1,2005,through Decem
ber 31,2005.
The following table presents the effect of a one-percentage-point
change in the assumed health care cost trend rate on JPMorgan

Chase™s total service and interest cost and accumulated postretire-

ment benefit obligation:For the year ended 1-Percentage- 1-Percentage-
December 31,2007
point point (in millions)increase decrease Effect on total service and interest costs$4$(3)
Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation59(51)
At December 31,2007,the Firm increased the discount rates used to
determine its benefit obligations for the U.S.defined benefit pension

and OPEB plans based upon current market interest rates,which will

result in a decrease in expense of approximately $10 million for

2008.The 2008 expected long-term rate of return on U.S.pension

plan assets and U.S.OPEB plan assets remained at 7.50% and

7.00%,respectively.The health care benefit obligation trend assump-

tion declined from 10% in 2007 to 9.25% in 2008,declining to a

rate of 5% in 2014.As of December 31,2007,the interest crediting

rate assumption and the assumed rate of compensation increase

remained at 5.25% and 4.00%,respectively.At December 31,2007,

pension plan demographic assumptions were revised to reflect recent

experience relating to form and timing of benefit distributions,and

rates of turnover,which will result in a decrease in expense of

approximately $9 million for 2008.
JPMorgan Chase™s U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expense
is most sensitive to the expected long-term rate of return on plan

assets.With all other assumptions held constant,a 25Œbasis point

decline in the expected long-term rate of return on U.S.plan assets

would result in an increase of approximately $27 million in 2008 U.S.

defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expense.A 25Œbasis point

decline in the discount rate for the U.S.plans would result in a

decrease in 2008 U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expense

of approximately $3 million and an increase in the related projected

benefit obligations of approximately $171 million.A 25-basis point

decline in the discount rates for the non-U.S.plans would result in an
increase in the 2008 non-U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB plan
expense of approximately $21 million.A 25-basis point increase in the

interest crediting rate for the U.S.defined benefit pension plan would

result in an increase in 2008 U.S.defined benefit pension expense of

approximately $9 million and an increase in the related projected ben-

efit obligations of approximately $64 million.
Investment strategy and asset allocation 
The investment policy for the Firm™s postretirement employee benefit

plan assets is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate
to the respective plan's needs and goals,using a global portfolio of

various asset classes diversified by market segment,economic sector

and issuer.Specifically,the goal is to optimize the asset mix for

future benefit obligations,while managing various risk factors and

each plan™s investment return objectives.For example,long-duration

fixed income securities are included in the U.S.qualified pension

plan™s asset allocation,in recognition of its long-duration obligations.

Plan assets are managed by a combination of internal and external
investment managers and are rebalanced to within approved ranges,

to the extent economically practical.
The Firm™s U.S.defined benefit pension plan assets are held in vari-
ous trusts and are invested in a well-diversified portfolio of equities
(including U.S.large and small capitalization and international equi-

ties),fixed income (including corporate and government bonds),

Treasury inflation-indexed and high-yield securities,real estate,cash

equivalents and alternative investments.Non-U.S.defined benefit
pension plan assets are held in various trusts and are similarly invested
in well-diversified portfolios of equity,fixed income and other securi-

ties.Assets of the Firm™s COLI policies,which are used to fund par-

tially the U.S.OPEB plan,are held in separate accounts with an

insurance company and are invested in equity and fixed income

index funds.In addition,tax-exempt municipal debt securities,held in

a trust,were used to fund the U.S.OPEB plan in prior periods;as of

December 31,2006,there are no remaining assets in the trust.As of

December 31,2007,the assets used to fund the Firm™s U.S.and non-

U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB plans do not include

JPMorgan Chase common stock,except in connection with invest-

ments in third-party stock-index funds.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
130JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.OPEB plans
(b)Target% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assets
December 31,Allocation
20072006Allocation
20072006(a)Allocation20072006Asset categoryDebt securities10-30%
28%31%69%
70%70%50%
50%50%Equity securities25-60
455526
252650
5050Real estate5-20
98111ŠŠŠAlternatives15-50
186443ŠŠŠTotal
100%100%100%100%
100%100%100%
100%100%(a)Represents the U.K.defined benefit pension plans only.
(b)Represents the U.S.OPEB plan only,as the U.K.OPEB plan is unfunded.
Estimated future benefit payments 
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid,which include the effect of expected future service,for the y
ears indicated.The OPEB medical and life insurance payments are net of expected retiree contributions.
U.S.Non-U.S.
Year ended December 31,defined benefit defined benefit OPEB beforeMedicare
(in millions)pension planspension plansMedicare Part D subsidyPart D subsidy
2008$902$89$119$11
20099229312012

20105879712213

201160310512314

201262611112416
Years 2013Œ20173,29662659795
The following table presents the actual rate of return on plan assets for the U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and OPEB 
plans.
U.S.Non-U.S.
December 31,200720062005
200720062005
Actual rate of return:
Defined benefit pension plans7.96%13.40%7.50%
0.06-7.51%2.80-7.30%2.70-15.90%
OPEB plans6.519.303.30
NANANA
The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation of the fair values of total plan assets at December 31 for t
he years indicated,and the respective approved range/target allocation by asset category,for the Firm™s U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension an
d OPEB plans.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
131Note 10 Œ Employee stock-based incentivesEffective January 1,2006,the Firm adopted SFAS 123R and all relat-
ed interpretations using the modified prospective transition method.

SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees,includ-

ing employee stock options and stock appreciation rights (ﬁSARsﬂ),
to be measured at their grant date fair values.Results for prior peri-

ods have not been retrospectively adjusted.The Firm also adopted

the transition election provided by FSP FAS 123(R)-3.
JPMorgan Chase had previously adopted SFAS 123,effective January
1,2003,using the prospective transition method.Under SFAS 123,

the Firm accounted for its stock-based compensation awards at fair

value,similar to the SFAS 123R requirements.However,under the

prospective transition method,JPMorgan Chase continued to

account for unmodified stock options that were outstanding as of
December 31,2002,using the APB 25 intrinsic value method.Under

this method,no expense was recognized for stock options granted at

an exercise price equal to the stock price on the grant date,since

such options have no intrinsic value.
Upon adopting SFAS 123R,the Firm began to recognize in the
Consolidated statements of income compensation expense for

unvested stock options previously accounted for under APB 25.

Additionally,JPMorgan Chase recognized as compensation expense

an immaterial cumulative effect adjustment resulting from the SFAS

123R requirement to estimate forfeitures at the grant date instead of

recognizing them as incurred.Finally,the Firm revised its accounting

policies for share-based payments granted to employees eligible for

continued vesting under specific age and service or service-related
provisions (ﬁfull career eligible employeesﬂ) under SFAS 123R.Prior

to adopting SFAS 123R,the Firm™s accounting policy for share-based

payment awards granted to full career eligible employees was to rec-

ognize compensation cost over the award™s stated service period.

Beginning with awards granted to full career eligible employees in

2006,JPMorgan Chase recognized compensation expense on the

grant date without giving consideration to the impact of post-

employment restrictions.In the first quarter of 2006,the Firm also

began to accrue the estimated cost of stock awards granted to full

career eligible employees in the following year.
In June 2007,the FASB ratified EITF 06-11,which requires that real-
ized tax benefits from dividends or dividend equivalents paid on

equity-classified share-based payment awards that are charged to

retained earnings should be recorded as an increase to additional
paid-in capital and included in the pool of excess tax benefits avail-

able to absorb tax deficiencies on share-based payment awards.Prior

to the issuance of EITF 06-11,the Firm did not include these tax

benefits as part of this pool of excess tax benefits.The Firm adopted

EITF 06-11 on January 1,2008.The adoption of this consensus did

not have an impact on the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheet or

results of operations.
Employee stock-based awards
In 2007 and 2006,JPMorgan Chase granted long-term stock-based

awards to certain key employees under the 2005 Long-Term

Incentive Plan (the ﬁ2005 Planﬂ).In 2005,JPMorgan Chase granted

long-term stock-based awards under the 1996 Long-Term Incentive

Plan as amended (the ﬁ1996 planﬂ) until May 2005,and after 

May 2005,under the 2005 Plan thereafter to certain key employees.

These two plans,plus prior Firm plans and plans assumed as the

result of acquisitions,constitute the Firm™s stock-based compensation

plans (ﬁLTI Plansﬂ).The 2005 Plan became effective on May 17,

2005,after approval by shareholders at the 2005 annual meeting.

The 2005 Plan replaced three existing stock-based compensation

plans Œ the 1996 Plan and two nonshareholder approved plans Œ all
of which expired before the effectiveness of the 2005 Plan.Under

the terms of the 2005 Plan,275 million shares of common stock are

available for issuance during its five-year term.The 2005 Plan is the

only active plan under which the Firm is currently granting stock-

based incentive awards.
Restricted stock units (ﬁRSUsﬂ) are awarded at no cost to the recipi-
ent upon their grant.RSUs are generally granted annually and gener-

ally vest 50 percent after two years and 50 percent after three years
and convert to shares of common stock at the vesting date.In addi-

tion,RSUs typically include full career eligibility provisions,which

allow employees to continue to vest upon voluntary termination,
subject to post-employment and other restrictions.All of these

awards are subject to forfeiture until the vesting date.An RSU enti-

tles the recipient to receive cash payments equivalent to any divi-

dends paid on the underlying common stock during the period the
RSU is outstanding.Under the LTI Plans,stock options and SARs have been granted with an

exercise price equal to the fair value of JPMorgan Chase™s common

stock on the grant date.The Firm typically awards SARs to certain key

employees once per year,and it also periodically grants discretionary

share-based payment awards to individual employees,primarily in the

form of both employee stock options and SARs.The 2007 grant of

SARs to key employees vests ratably over five years (i.e.,20 percent per

year) and the 2006 and 2005 awards vest one-third after each of years

3,4 and 5.These awards do not include any full career eligibility provi-

sions and all awards generally expire 10 years after the grant date.
The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense for each

tranche of each award as if it were a separate award with its own

vesting date.For each tranche granted (other than grants to employ-

ees who are full career eligible at the grant date),compensation

expense is recognized on a straight-line basis from the grant date

until the vesting date of the respective tranche,provided that the

employees will not become full career eligible during the vesting
period.For each tranche granted to employees who will become full

career eligible during the vesting period,compensation expense is

recognized on a straight-line basis from the grant date until the earli-

er of the employee's full career eligibility date or the vesting date of
the respective tranche.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
132JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The Firm™s policy for issuing shares upon settlement of employee
share-based payment awards is to issue either new shares of common

stock or treasury shares
.On April 17,2007,the Board of Directors
approved a stock repurchase program that authorizes the repurchase

of up to $10.0 billion of the Firm™s common shares,which super-

sedes an $8.0 billion stock repurchase program approved in 2006.

The $10.0 billion authorization includes shares to be repurchased to

offset issuances under the Firm™s employee stock-based plans.During

2007,the Firm settled all of its employee stock-based awards by

issuing treasury shares.
In December 2005,the Firm accelerated the vesting of approximately
41 million unvested,out-of-the-money employee stock options grant-

ed in 2001 under the Growth and Performance Incentive Program,

which were scheduled to vest in January 2007.These options were

not modified other than to accelerate vesting.The related expense

was approximately $145 million,and was recognized as compensa-

tion expense in the fourth quarter of 2005.The Firm believed that at

the time the options were accelerated they had limited economic

value since the exercise price of the accelerated options was $51.22

and the closing price of the Firm™s common stock on the effective

date of the acceleration was $39.69.
RSU activityCompensation expense for RSUs is measured based upon the num-
ber of shares granted multiplied by the stock price at the grant date,

and is recognized in Net income as previously described.The follow-

ing table summarizes JPMorgan Chase™s RSU activity for 2007.
Year ended December 31,2007
Weighted-
(in thousands,except weighted 
Number ofaverage grant
average data)
Sharesdate fair value
Outstanding,January 188,456#$38.50
Granted47,60848.29

Vested(30,925)38.09
Forfeited(6,122)42.56
Outstanding,December 31
99,017#$43.11
The total fair value of shares that vested during the years ended
December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,was $1.5 billion,$1.3 billion and

$1.1 billion,respectively.
Employee stock option and SARs activityCompensation expense,which is measured at the grant date as the fair

value of employee stock options and SARs,is recognized in Net income

as described above.
The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase™s employee stock
option and SARs activity for the year ended December 31,2007,includ-

ing awards granted to key employees and awards granted in prior years

under broad-based plans.
The weighted-average grant date per share fair value of stock options and SARs granted during the years ended December 31,2007,
2006 and2005,was $13.38,$10.99 and $10.44,respectively.The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 3
1,2007,
2006 and 2005 was $937 million,$994 million and $364 million,respectively.
Year ended December 31,2007
(in thousands,exceptNumber ofWeighted-averageWeighted-averageAggregate
weighted-average data)options/SARsexercise priceremaining contractual life (in years)intrinsic value
Outstanding,January 1376,227#$40.31
Granted21,44646.65

Exercised(64,453)34.73

Forfeited(1,410)40.13
Canceled(5,879)48.10
Outstanding,December 31
325,931#$41.704.0$1,601,780
Exercisable,December 31281,32741.443.21,497,992
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
133Comparison of the fair and intrinsic value measurement
methods
The following table presents Net income and basic and diluted earn-

ings per share as reported,and as if all 2005 share-based payment

awards were accounted for at fair value.All 2007 and 2006 awards

were accounted for at fair value.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except per share data)2005
Net income as reported$8,483
Add:Employee stock-based compensation
expense included in reported Net income,

net of related tax effects938
Deduct:Employee stock-based compensation
expense determined under the fair 
value method for all awards,net of related
tax effects(1,015)
Pro forma Net income
$8,406
Earnings per share:
Basic:As reported$2.43
Pro forma2.40
Diluted:As reported$2.38
Pro forma2.36
The following table presents the assumptions used to value employee
stock options and SARs granted during the period under the Black-

Scholes valuation model.
Year ended December 31,
200720062005
Weighted-average annualized
valuation assumptionsRisk-free interest rate
4.78%5.11%4.25%
Expected dividend yield
3.182.893.79
Expected common stock price volatility332337
Expected life (in years)6.86.86.8
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R,the Firm used the historical volatili-
ty of its common stock price as the expected volatility assumption in
valuing options.The Firm completed a review of its expected volatility

assumption in 2006.Effective October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase began

to value its employee stock options granted or modified after that date

using an expected volatility assumption derived from the implied volatil-
ity of its publicly traded stock options.
The expected life assumption is an estimate of the length of time that an

employee might hold an option or SAR before it is exercised or canceled.
The expected life assumption was developed using historic experience.
Impact of adoption of SFAS 123R 
During 2006,the incremental expense related to the Firm™s adoption

of SFAS123R was $712 million.This amount represents an accelerated

noncash recognition of costs that would otherwise have been incurred
in future periods.Also as a result of adopting SFAS 123R,the Firm™s

Income from continuing operations (pretax) for the year ended

December 31,2006,was lower by $712 million,and each of Income

from continuing operations (after-tax),and Net income for the year

ended December 31,2006,was lower by $442 million,than if the

Firm had continued to account for share-based compensation under
APB 25 and SFAS 123.Basic and diluted earnings per share from con-

tinuing operations,as well as basic and diluted Net income per share,

for the year ended December 31,2006 were $.13 and $.12 lower,

respectively,than if the Firm had not adopted SFAS 123R.
The Firm recognized noncash compensation expense related to its var-
ious employee stock-based incentive awards of $2.0 billion,$2.4 bil-

lion (including the $712 million incremental impact of adopting SFAS

123R) and $1.6 billion for the years ended December 31,2007,2006,

and 2005,respectively,in its Consolidated statements of income.

These amounts included an accrual for the estimated cost of stock

awards to be granted to full career eligible employees of $500 million

and $498 million for the years ended December 31,2007 and 2006

respectively.At December 31,2007,approximately $1.3 billion 

(pretax) of compensation cost related to unvested awards has not yet

been charged to Net income.That cost is expected to be amortized

into compensation expense over a weighted-average period of 1.4

years.The Firm does not capitalize any compensation cost related to

share-based compensation awards to employees.
Cash flows and tax benefits 
Prior to adopting SFAS 123R,the Firm presented all tax benefits of

deductions resulting from share-based compensation awards as

operating cash flows in its Consolidated statements of cash flows.

Beginning in 2006,SFAS 123R requires the cash flows resulting from

the tax benefits of tax deductions in excess of the compensation
expense recognized for those share-based compensation awards

(i.e.,excess tax benefits) to be classified as financing cash flows.
The total income tax benefit related to stock-based compensation
arrangements recognized in the Firm™s Consolidated statements of

income for the years ended December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,

was $810 million,$947 million and $625 million,respectively.
The following table sets forth the cash received from the exercise of
stock options under all share-based compensation arrangements and

the actual tax benefit realized related to the tax deduction from the
exercise of stock options.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Cash received for options exercised$2,023
$1,924$635
Tax benefit realized
23821165
Global Reports LLC
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and HTM securities were as follows for the dates indicated.
20072006GrossGrossGrossGross
AmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFairAmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFair
December 31,(in millions)costgainslossesvaluecostgainslossesvalue
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
U.S.treasuries
$2,470$14$2$2,482
$2,398$Š$23$2,375
Mortgage-backed securities
81Š9
322133
Agency obligations739Š82
788Š86
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations
62,5116435563,099
75,43433446075,308
Obligations of state and political subdivisions921291
637174650
Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
6,80418286,794
6,1507526,105
Corporate debt securities
1,927141,924
61113609
Equity securities4,1245514,178
3,68912513,813
Other(a)6,77948806,747
2,8905022,938
Total available-for-sale securities$84,788$790$172$85,406
$91,919$544$546$91,917
Held-to-maturity securities(b)Total held-to-maturity securities 
$44$1$Š$45
$58$2$Š$60
(a)Primarily includes privately issued mortgage-backed securities and negotiable certificates of deposit.
(b)Consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S.government-sponsored entities.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
134JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 11 Œ Noninterest expense
Merger costs
On July 1,2004,Bank One Corporation merged with and into

JPMorgan Chase (ﬁthe Mergerﬂ).Costs associated with the Merger

and the Bank of New York transaction are reflected in the Merger

costs caption of the Consolidated statements of income.A summary

of such costs,by expense category,is shown in the following table

for 2007,2006 and 2005.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Expense categoryCompensation$(19)
$26$238
Occupancy1725(77)
Technology and communications and other
188239561
Bank of New York transaction
(a)2315Š
Total
(b)$209
$305$722
(a)Represents Compensation and Technology and communications and other.
(b)With the exception of occupancy-related write-offs,all of the costs in the table
require the expenditure of cash.The table below shows the change in the liability balance related to
the costs associated with the Merger.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Liability balance,beginning of period
$155
$311$952
Recorded as merger costs186290722
Recorded as goodwill(60)Š(460)
Liability utilized (281)(446)(903)
Liability balance,end of period
(a)$Š$155$311
(a)Excludes $10 million and $21 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,
related to the Bank of New York transaction.
Note 12 ŒSecurities 
Securities are classified as AFS,Held-to-maturity (ﬁHTMﬂ) or Trading.
Trading securities are discussed in Note 6 on page 122 of this Annual

Report.Securities are classified primarily as AFS when purchased as

part of the Firm™s management of its structural interest rate risk.

AFS securities are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance

sheets.Unrealized gains and losses after any applicable SFAS 133

hedge accounting adjustments are reported as net increases or
decreases to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).The

specific identification method is used to determine realized gains and
losses on AFS securities,which are included in Securities gains(losses)

on the Consolidated statements of income.Securities that the Firm

has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as
HTM and are carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated balance
sheets.The Firm has not classified new purchases of securities as

HTM for the past several years.
The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS

securities.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Realized gains$667
$399$302
Realized losses(503)(942)(1,638)
Net realized Securities 
gains (losses)(a)$164
$(543)$(1,336)
(a)Proceeds from securities sold were within approximately 2% of amortized cost.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
135Securities with gross unrealized lossesLess than 12 months 12 months or more    
Total
GrossGrossTotalGross
FairunrealizedFairunrealizedFairunrealized
2006 (in millions) valuelossesvaluelossesvaluelosses
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
U.S.treasuries$2,268$23$Š$Š$2,268$23

Mortgage-backed securities81ŠŠ81
Agency obligationsŠŠŠŠŠŠ
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations17,8772626,94619824,823460

Obligations of state and political subdivisionsŠŠ18041804

Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments3,141132,354395,49552

Corporate debt securities3873ŠŠ3873

Equity securities171ŠŠ171
Other1,55618211,6382
Total securities with gr
oss unr
ealized losses$25,254$304$9,562$242$34,816$546
Impairment of AFS securities is evaluated considering numerous fac-
tors,and their relative significance varies case-by-case.Factors con-

sidered include the length of time and extent to which the market

value has been less than cost;the financial condition and near-term

prospects of the issuer of a security;and the Firm™s intent and ability

to retain the security in order to allow for an anticipated recovery in
fair value.If,based upon an analysis of each of the above factors,it

is determined that the impairment is other-than-temporary,the carry-

ing value of the security is written down to fair value,and a loss is

recognized through earnings.
Included in the $172 million of gross unrealized losses on AFS securities

at December 31,2007,was $98 million of unrealized losses that have

existed for a period greater than 12 months.These securities are pre-
dominately rated AAA and the unrealized losses are primarily due to
overall increases in market interest rates and not concerns regarding the

underlying credit of the issuers.The majority of the securities with unre-

alized losses aged greater than 12 months are obligations of U.S.gov-

ernment-sponsored enterprises and have a fair value at December 31,

2007,that is within 4% of their amortized cost basis.
Due to the issuers™ continued satisfaction of their obligations under the
contractual terms of the securities,the Firm™s evaluation of the funda-

mentals of the issuers™ financial condition and other objective evidence,

and the Firm™s consideration of its intent and ability to hold the securities

for a period of time sufficient to allow for the anticipated recovery in themarket value of the securities,the Firm believes that these securities were

not other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31,2007 and 2006.
The following table presents the fair value and gross unrealized losses for AFS securities by aging category at December 31.
Securities with gross unrealized lossesLess than 12 months 12 months or more    
Total
GrossGrossTotalGross
FairunrealizedFairunrealizedFairunrealized
2007(in millions) valuelossesvaluelossesvaluelosses
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
U.S.treasuries
$175$2$Š$Š$175$2
Mortgage-backed securities
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Agency obligationsŠŠŠŠŠŠ
U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations
ŠŠ1,345551,34555
Obligations of state and political subdivisions212ŠŠ212
Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
33531,928252,26328
Corporate debt securities
1,126318311,3094
Equity securitiesŠŠ4141
Other3,19364285163,47880
Total securities with gr
oss unr
ealized losses$4,850$74$3,745$98$8,595$172
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
136JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The following table presents the amortized cost,estimated fair value and average yield at December 31,2007,of JPMorgan Chase™s 
AFS andHTM securities by contractual maturity.
By remaining maturity atAvailable-for-sale securitiesHeld-to-maturity securities
December 31,2007
AmortizedFairAverageAmortizedFairAverage
(in millions,except rates)costvalueyield
(b)costvalueyield
(b)Due in one year or less$6,669$6,6734.28%$Š$ŠŠ%
Due after one year through five years6,2646,2803.63ŠŠŠ

Due after five years through 10 years1,3151,2864.6640416.88
Due after 10 years(a)70,54071,1675.57446.07
Total securities
$84,788$85,4065.31%$44$456.81%
(a)Includes securities with no stated maturity.Substantially all of the Firm™s mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mo
rtgage obligations are due in 10 years or more based uponcontractual maturity.The estimated duration,which reflects anticipated future prepayments based upon a consensus of dealers in 
the market,is approximately four years for mortgage-
backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations.
(b)The average yield is based upon amortized cost balances at year-end.Yields are derived by dividing interest income by total 
amortized cost.Taxable-equivalent yields are used where
applicable.
Note 13 ŒSecurities financing activities
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements,repurchase agree-
ments,securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned trans-

actions,primarily to finance the Firm™s inventory positions,acquire

securities to cover short positions and settle other securities obliga-
tions.The Firm also enters into these transactions to accommodate

customers™ needs.
Resale agreements and repurchase agreements are generally treated
as collateralized financing transactions carried on the Consolidated

balance sheets at the amounts the securities will be subsequently
sold or repurchased,plus accrued interest.On January 1,2007,pur-

suant to the adoption of SFAS 159,the Firm elected fair value meas-

urement for certain resale and repurchase agreements.For a further

discussion of SFAS 159,see Note 5 on pages 119Œ121 of this

Annual Report.These agreements continue to be reported within

Securities purchased under resale agreements and Securities sold
under repurchase agreements on the Consolidated balance sheets.

Generally for agreements carried at fair value,current period interest

accruals are recorded within Interest income and Interest expense
with changes in fair value reported in Principal transactions revenue.

However,for financial instruments containing embedded derivatives

that would be separately accounted for in accordance with SFAS

133,all changes in fair value,including any interest elements,are

reported in Principal transactions revenue.Where appropriate,resale

and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty are reported
on a net basis in accordance with FIN 41.JPMorgan Chase takes pos-
session of securi
ties purchased under resale agreements.On a daily
basis,JPMorgan 
Chase monitors the market value of the underlying
collateral,primarily
U.S.and non-U.S.government and agency securi-
ties that it has received from its counterparties,and requests addi-

tional collateral when necessary.
Transactions similar to financing activities that do not meet the SFAS

140 definition of a repurchase agreement are accounted for as
ﬁbuysﬂand ﬁsellsﬂrather than financing transactions.These transac-

tions are accounted for as a purchase (sale) of the underlying securi-
ties with a forward obligation to sell (purchase) the securities.The

forward purchase (sale) obligation,a derivative,is recorded on the

Consolidated balance sheets at its fair value,with changes in fair

value recorded in Principal transactions revenue.
Securities borrowed and securities lent are recorded at the amountof cash collateral advanced or received.Securities borrowed consist

primarily of government and equity securities.JPMorgan Chase moni-

tors the market value of the securities borrowed and lent on a daily

basis and calls for additional collateral when appropriate.Fees

received or paid are recorded in Interest income or Interest expense.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006Securities purchased under resale agreements(a)$169,305
$122,479Securities borrowed84,18473,688Securities sold under repurchase agreements(b)$126,098
$143,253Securities loaned10,9228,637(a)Included resale agreements of $19.1 billion accounted for at fair value at 
December 31,2007.
(b)Included repurchase agreements of $5.8 billion accounted for at fair value at
December 31,2007.
JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments it owns to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings.

Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by the secured party
are identified as financial instruments owned (pledged to various par-

ties) on the Consolidated balance sheets.
At December 31,2007,the Firm had received securities as collateral

that could be repledged,delivered or otherwise used with a fair

value of approximately $357.6 billion.This collateral was generally

obtained under resale or securities borrowing agreements.Of these

securities,approximately $333.7 billion 
were repledged,delivered or 
otherwise used,generally as collater
al under repurchase agreements,
securities lending agreements or to cover short sales.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
137Note 14 ŒLoans
The accounting for a loan may differ based upon the type of loan
and/or its use in an investing or trading strategy.The measurement

framework for Loans in the consolidated financial statements is one

of the following:At the principal amount outstanding,net of the Allowance for
loan losses,unearned income and any net deferred loan fees for

loans held-for-investment;
At the lower of cost or fair value,with valuation changes recorded
in Noninterest revenue for loans that are classified as held-for-

sale;or
At fair value,with changes in fair value recorded in Noninterest
revenue for loans classified as Trading assets or risk managed on a

fair value basis.
See Note 5 on pages 119Œ121 of this Annual Report for further infor-
mation on the Firm™s elections of fair value accounting under SFAS

159.See Note 6 on page 122 of this Annual Report for further infor-

mation on loans carried at fair value and classified as trading assets.
Interest income is recognized using the interest method,or on a basis
approximating a level rate of return over the term of the loan.
Loans within the held-for-investment portfolio that management
decides to sell are transferred to the held-for-sale portfolio.Transfers

to held-for-sale are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value on the

date of transfer.Losses attributed to credit losses are charged off to

the Allowance for loan losses and losses due to changes in interest

rates,or exchange rates,are recognized in Noninterest revenue.
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest is dis-continued.Loans (other than certain consumer loans discussed

below) are placed on nonaccrual status immediately if,in the opinion

of management,full payment of principal or interest is in doubt,or

when principal or interest is 90 days or more past due and collateral,

if any,is insufficient to cover principal and interest.Interest accrued

but not collected at the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status is
reversed against Interest income.In addition,the amortization of net
deferred loan fees is suspended.Interest income on nonaccrual loans

is recognized only to the extent it is received in cash.However,where

there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of loan principal,all

cash thereafter received is applied to reduce the carrying value of

such loans.Loans are restored to accrual status only when interest

and principal payments are brought current and future payments are
reasonably assured.Loans are charged off to the Allowance for loan

losses when it is highly certain that a loss has been realized.Consumer loans are generally charged to the Allowance for loan

losses upon reaching specified stages of delinquency,in accordance

with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy.For

example,credit card loans 
are charged off by the end of the month inwhich the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days
from receiving notification of the filing of bankruptcy,whichever is

earlier.Residential mortgage products are generally charged off to

net realizable value at no later than180 days past due.Other con-

sumer products,if collateralized,are generally charged off to net

realizable value at 120 days past due.Accrued interest on residential

mortgage products,automobile financings,education financings and
certain other consumerloans are accounted for in 
accordance with thenonaccrual loan policy discussed in the preceding paragraph.Interest
and fees related to credit card loans continue to accrue until the loanis charged off or paid in full.Accrued interest on all other consumer

loans is generally reversed against Interest income when the loan is

charged off.A collateralized loan is considered an in-substance fore-

closure and is reclassified to assets acquired in loan satisfactions,

within Other assets,only when JPMorgan Chase has taken physical

possessionof the 
collateral,regardless of whether formal foreclosure
proceedings have taken place.
The composition of the loan portfolio at each of the dates indi-

cated was as follows.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006U.S.wholesale loans:
Commercial and industrial$97,347
$77,788
Real estate13,38814,237Financial institutions
14,76014,103Lease financing 2,3532,608Other5,4059,950Total U.S.wholesale loans133,253
118,686Non-U.S.wholesale loans:
Commercial and industrial59,15343,428Real estate2,1101,146Financial institutions
17,22519,163Lease financing 1,1981,174Other137145Total non-U.S.wholesale loans79,823
65,056Total wholesale loans:
(a)Commercial and industrial156,500121,216Real estate(b)15,49815,383Financial institutions
31,98533,266Lease financing 3,5513,782Other5,54210,095Total wholesale loans213,076
183,742Total consumer loans:
(c)Home equity 94,83285,730Mortgage56,03159,668Auto loans and leases42,35041,009Credit card(d)84,35285,881Other 28,73327,097Total consumer loans306,298
299,385Total loans
(e)(f)$519,374
$483,127
Memo:Loans held-for-sale
$18,899
$55,251
Loans at fair value
8,739ŠTotal loans held-for-sale
and loans at fair value $27,638
$55,251
(a)Includes Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and
Asset Management.(b)Represents credits extended for real estateŒrelated purposes to borrowers who are
primarily in the real estate development or investment businesses and for which theprimary repaymentis 
from the sale,lease,management,operations or refinancing of
the property.
(c)Includes Retail Financial Services,Card Services and the Corporate segment.

(d)Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible
amounts.
(e)Loans (other than those for which SFAS 159 fair value option has been elected) are
presented net of unearned income and net deferred loan fees of $1.0 billionand $1.3billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(f)As a result of the adoption of SFAS 159,certain loans are accounted for at fair value
and reported in Trading assets and therefore,such loans are no longer included in

loans at December 31,2007.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
138JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The following table reflects information about the Firm™s loan sales.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20072006(b)2005(b)Net gains/(losses) on sales of loans (includinglower of cost or fair value adjustments)
(a)$99
$672$464
(a)Excludes sales related to loans accounted for at fair value.
(b)Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation.
Impaired loans
JPMorgan Chase accounts for and discloses nonaccrual loans as
impaired loansand recognizes their interest income as discussed previously for nonaccrual loans.The following are excluded from

impaired loans:small-balance,homogeneous consumer loans;loans

carried at fair value or the lower of cost or fair value;debt securities;

and leases.
The table below sets forth information about JPMorgan Chase™s
impaired loans.The Firm primarily uses the discounted cash flow

method for valuing impaired loans.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006Impaired loans with an allowance
$782
$623
Impaired loans without an allowance
(a)2866Total impaired loans$810
$689
Allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114
(b)224153(a)When the discounted cash flows,collateral value or market price equals or exceeds 
the carrying value of the loan,then the loan does not require an allowance under

SFAS 114.
(b)The allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114 is included in JPMorgan Chase™s
Allowance for loan losses.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)200720062005
Average balance of impaired 
loans during the period$645
$990$1,478
Interest income recognized on 
impaired loans during the periodŠ25Note 15 ŒAllowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase™s Allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale 
(risk-rated) and consumer (scored) loan portfolios and represents 

management™s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm™s

loan portfolio.Management 
also computes an allowance for wholesale
lending-related commitmentsusing a methodology similar to that usedfor the wholesale loans.
The Allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific component 
and a formula-based component.The asset-specific component relates

to provisions for losses on loans considered impaired and measured
pursuant to SFAS 114.An allowance is established when the discount-

ed cash flows (or collateral value or observable market price) of the

loan is lower than the carrying value of that loan.To compute the

asset-specific component of the allowance,larger impaired loans are

evaluated individually,and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a

pool using historical loss experience for the respective class of assets.
The formula-based component covers performing wholesale and 

consumer loans.It is based on a statistical calculation,which is adjusted

to take into consideration model imprecision,external factors and cur-

rent economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the
factors used to derive the statistical calculation.The statistical calculation

is the product of probability of default (ﬁPDﬂ) and loss given default
(ﬁLGDﬂ).For risk-rated loans (generally loans originated by the whole-

sale lines of business),these factors are differentiated by risk rating and

maturity.PD estimates are based on observable external data,primarily

credit-rating agency default statistics.LGD estimates are based on a

study of actual credit losses over more than one creditcycle.For scored
loans (generally loans originated by the consumer lines of business),loss

is primarily determined by applying statistical loss factors and other risk
indicators to pools of loans by asset type.
Management applies its judgment within estimated ranges to adjust

the statistical calculation.Where adjustments are made to the statistical

calculation for the risk-rated portfolios,the estimated ranges and the

determination of the appropriate point within the range are based upon

management™s view of the quality of underwriting standards,relevant

internal factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio and
external factors such as current macroeconomic and political conditions
that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors.Factors

related to concentrated and deteriorating industries are also incorporat-

ed into the calculation where relevant.Adjustments to the statistical

calculation for the scored loan portfolios are accomplished in part by
analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment.
The estimated ranges and the determination of the appropriate point

within the range are based upon management™s view of uncertainties

that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions,the quali-

ty of underwriting standards,and other relevant internal and external

factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio.
The Allowance for lending-related commitments represents manage-
ment™s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm™s process

of extending credit.Management establishes an asset-specific

allowance for lending-related commitments that are considered

impaired and computes a formula-based allowance for performing

wholesale lending-related commitments.These are computed using a

methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loan portfolio,mod-

ified for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown.
At least quarterly,the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the
Chief Risk Officer,the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the

Firm and discussed with the Risk Policy and Audit Committees of the

Board of Directors of the Firm.As of December 31,2007,JPMorgan

Chase deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e.,

sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio,including

those not yet identifiable).Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
139The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for 
loan losses.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Allowance for loan losses at 
January 1 
$7,279
$ 7,090$7,320
Cumulative effect of change inaccounting principles(a)(56)ŠŠAllowance for loan losses at 
January 1,adjusted
7,2237,0907,320
Gross charge-offs(5,367)(3,884)(4,869)
Gross recoveries8298421,050
Net charge-offs(4,538)
(3,042)(3,819)
Provision for loan losses6,5383,1533,575
Other(b)117814
Allowance for loan losses at December 31$9,234
$ 7,279$7,090
Components:Asset-specific(c)$188
$118$247
Formula-based
(c)9,0467,1616,843
Total Allowance for loan losses$9,234
$7,279$7,090
(a)Reflects the effect of the adoption of SFAS 159 at January 1,2007.For a further 
discussion of SFAS 159,see Note 5 on pages 119Œ121of this Annual Report.
(b)2006 amount primarily relates to loans acquired in the Bank of New York transaction.
(c)Prior periods have been revised to reflect current presentation.
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for lend-
ing-related commitments.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Allowance for lending-related 
commitments at January 1
$524
$ 400$492
Provision for lending-related commitments326117(92)
Other(a)Š7ŠAllowance for lending-related 
commitments at December 31$850
$ 524$400
Components:Asset-specific$28
$33$60
Formula-based
822491340
Total Allowance for lending-
related commitments $850
$ 524$400
(a) 2006 amount relates to the Bank of New York transaction.
Note 16 ŒLoan securitizations 
JPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety of its consumer and
wholesale loans,including warehouse loans that are classified in Trading

assets.Consumer activities include securitizations of residential real

estate,credit card,automobile and education loans that are originated or

purchased by RFS and Card Services (ﬁCSﬂ).Wholesale activities include

securitizations of purchased residential real estate loans and commercial
loans (primarily real estateŒrelated) originated by the IB.
JPMorgan ChaseŒsponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as part of the
securitization process.These SPEs are structured to meet the definition

of a QSPE (as discussed in Note 1 on page 108 of this Annual

Report);accordingly,the assets and liabilities of securitization-related

QSPEs are not reflected in the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets

(except for retained interests,as described below) but are included on

the balance sheet of the QSPE purchasing the assets.The primary pur-

pose of these vehicles is to meet investor needs and to generate liq-

uidity for the Firm through the sale of loans to the QSPEs.Assets held

by JPMorgan Chase-sponsored securitization-related QSPEs as of
December 31,2007 and 2006,were as follows.
December 31,(in billions)
20072006Consumer activitiesCredit card $92.7
$86.4
Auto2.34.9Residential mortgage:Prime(a)51.134.3Subprime10.66.4Education loans1.1ŠWholesale activities
Residential mortgage:Prime(a)20.518.1Subprime13.125.7Commercial and other(b)(c)109.687.1Total$301.0
$262.9
(a)Includes Alt-A loans.
(b)Cosponsored securitizations include non-JPMorgan Chase originated assets.

(c)Commercial and other consists of commercial loans (primarily real estate) and 
non-mortgage consumer receivables purchased from third parties.
Global Reports LLC
Year ended December 31,2007
Consumer activitiesWholesale activities
(in millions,except rates and where
Residential mortgageEducationResidential mortgageCommercialotherwise noted)Credit cardAutoPrime
(c)Subprime(f)loansPrime
(c)Subprimeand other
Principal securitized $21,160$Š$22,778$
6,150$
1,168$9,306$613$12,797
Pretax gains177Š26
(d)43512
(d)ŠŠCash flow information:
Proceeds from securitizations$21,160$Š$22,572$
6,236$
1,168$9,219$608$13,038
Servicing fees collected179Š36172ŠŠ7
Other cash flows received
935ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ 
Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizations148,946ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Key assumptions (rates per annum):
Prepayment rate
(a)20.4% 
14.8-24.2%1.0-8.0%13.7-37.2%30.0-48.0%0.0
-8.0%PPRCPRCPRCPRCPRCPR
Weighted-average life (in years)
0.43.2-4.09.31.3-5.42.3-2.81.3-10.2
Expected credit losses3.5-3.9%Š%
(e)Š%(e)0.6-1.6%1.2-2.2%0.0-1.0%
(e)Discount rate
12.0%
5.8-13.8%9.0%6.3-20.0%
12.1-26.7%10.0-14.0%
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
140JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The Firm records a loan securitization as a sale when the accounting
criteria for a sale are met.Those criteria are:(1) the transferred assets

are legally isolated from the Firm™s creditors;(2) the entity can pledge

or exchange the financial assets or,if the entity is a QSPE,its

investors can pledge or exchange their interests;and (3) the Firm

does not maintain effective control to repurchase the transferred

assets before their maturity or have the ability to unilaterally cause

the holder to return the transferred assets.
For loan securitizations that meet the accounting sales criteria,the

gains or losses recorded depend,in part,on the carrying amount of

the loans sold and are allocated between the loans sold and the
retained interests,based upon their relative fair values at the date of

sale.Gains on securitizations are reported in Noninterest revenue.

When quoted market prices for the retained interests are not avail-

able,the Firm estimates the fair value for these retained interests by

determining the present value of future expected cash flows using

modeling techniques.Such models incorporate management™s best

estimates of key variables,such as expected credit losses,prepayment

speeds and the discount rates appropriate for the risks involved.
Interests in the securitized loans may be retained by the Firm in the
form of senior or subordinated interest-only strips,senior and subor-

dinated tranches and escrow accounts.The classification of retained

interests is dependent upon several factors,including the type of

interest (e.g.,whether the retained interest is represented by a secu-
rity certificate) and when it was retained,due to the adoption of
SFAS 155.The Firm has elected to fair value all interests in securi-

tized loans retained after December 31,2005,that have an embed-

ded derivative required to be bifurcated under SFAS 155;these

retained interests are classified primarily as Trading assets.Retained

interests related to wholesale securitization activities are classified as

Trading assets.Prior to the adoption of SFAS 155,for consumer

activities,senior and subordinated retained interests represented by a

security certificate were classified as AFS;retained interests not rep-

resented by a security certificate were classified in Other assets.
For those retained interests that are subject to prepayment risk (such
that JPMorgan Chase may not recover substantially all of its invest-
ment) but are not required to be bifurcated under SFAS 155,the

retained interests are recorded at fair value;subsequent adjustments

are reflected in earnings or in Other comprehensive income (loss).
Retained interests classified as AFS are subject to the impairment

provisions of EITF 99-20.Credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a mini-mum undivided interest in the trusts,representing the Firm™s interests

in the receivables transferred to the trust that have not been securi-

tized.These seller™s interests are not represented by security certifi-

cates.The Firm™s undivided interests are carried at historical cost and

are classified in Loans.
2007,2006 and 2005 Securitization activity
The following tables summarize new securitization transactions that were completed during 2007,2006 and 2005;the resulting gain
s arisingfrom such securitizations;certain cash flows received from such securitizations;and the key economic assumptions used in measur
ing theretained interests (if any) other than residential MSRs (for a discussion of residential MSRs,see Note 18 on pages 154Œ157 of t
his AnnualReport),as of the dates of such sales.
Global Reports LLC
Year ended December 31,2006
Consumer activitiesWholesale activities
(in millions,except rates and where
Residential mortgageEducationResidential mortgageCommercialotherwise noted)Credit cardAutoPrime
(c)Subprime(f)loansPrime
(c)Subprimeand other
Principal securitized $9,735$2,405$14,179$2,624$Š$16,075$14,735$13,858
Pretax gains (losses)67Š4243Š11150129

Cash flow information:
Proceeds from securitizations$9,735$1,745$14,102$2,652$Š$16,065$14,983$14,248

Servicing fees collected883162ŠŠŠ1

Other cash flows received401ŠŠŠŠ35Š95 

Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizations151,186ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Key assumptions (rates per annum):
Prepayment rate
(a)20.0Œ22.2% 1.4-1.5%
18.2-24.6%10.0-41.3%36.0Œ45.0%0.0Œ36.2%
PPRABSCPRCPRCPRCPR
Weighted-average life (in years)0.41.4Œ1.93.0-3.61.7-4.01.5Œ2.41.5Œ6.1
Expected credit losses3.3Œ4.2%0.3Œ0.7%Š%
(e)0.1-3.3%1.1-2.1%0.0Œ0.9%
(e)Discount rate12.0%7.6Œ7.8%
8.4-12.7%16.0-26.2%15.1Œ22.0%3.8Œ14.0%
Year ended December 31,2005
Consumer activitiesWholesale activities
(in millions,except rates and where
Residential mortgageEducationResidential mortgageCommercialotherwise noted)Credit cardAutoPrime
(c)Subprime(f)loansPrime
(c)Subprimeand other
Principal securitized $15,145$3,762$18,125$Š$Š$5,447$5,952$11,292
Pretax gains (losses)1019
(b)21ŠŠ3(6)134
Cash flow information:
Proceeds from securitizations$14,844$2,622$18,093$Š$Š$5,434$6,060$11,398

Servicing fees collected94417ŠŠŠŠŠ

Other cash flows received298ŠŠŠŠŠŠ3 

Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizations129,696ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Key assumptions (rates per annum):
Prepayment rate
(a)16.7Œ20.0% 1.5%9.1-12.1%22.0Œ43.0%0.0Œ50.0%
PPRABSCPRCPRCPR
Weighted-average life (in years)0.4Œ0.51.4Œ1.55.6-6.71.4Œ2.61.0Œ4.4
Expected credit losses4.7Œ5.7%0.6Œ0.7%Š%
(e)0.6Œ2.0%Š%
(e)Discount rate12.0%6.3Œ7.3%
13.0-13.3%16.0Œ18.5%0.6Œ0.9%
(a)PPR:principal payment rate;ABS:absolute prepayment speed;CPR:constant prepayment rate.
(b)The auto securitization gain of $9 million does not include the write-down of loans transferred to held-for-sale in 2005 and
 risk management activities intended to protect the 
economic value of the loans while held-for-sale.
(c)Includes Alt-A loans.

(d)As of January 1,2007,the Firm adopted the fair value election for the IB warehouse and a portion of the RFS mortgage warehou
se.The carrying value of these loans accounted for 
at fair value approximates the proceeds received from securitization.
(e)Expected credit losses for prime residential mortgage,education and certain wholesale securitizations are minimal and are in
corporated into other assumptions.
(f)Interests in subprime residential mortgage securitizations for consumer activities are held by the Investment Bank and the k
ey assumptions used in measuring these retailed interests are
reported under subprime residential mortgages for wholesale activities.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
141Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
142JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
In addition to the amounts reported for securitization activity in thepreceding table,the Firm sold residential mortgage loans totaling

$81.8 billion,$53.7 billion and $52.5 billion during 2007,2006 and

2005,respectively,primarily for securitization by the Government

National Mortgage Association (ﬁGNMAﬂ),Federal National

Mortgage Association (ﬁFNMAﬂ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage

Corporation (ﬁFreddie Macﬂ);these sales resulted in pretax gains of

$47 million,$251 million and $293 million,respectively.
Retained servicingJPMorgan Chase retains servicing responsibilities for all originated
and for certain purchased residential mortgage,credit card and auto-

mobile loan securitizations and for certain commercial activity securi-

tizations it sponsors,and receives servicing fees based upon the

securitized loan balance plus certain ancillary fees.The Firm also

retains the right to service the residential mortgage loans it sells to

GNMA,FNMA and Freddie Mac.For a discussion of mortgage servic-

ing rights,see Note 18 on pages 154Œ157 of this Annual Report.
The Firm provides mortgage servicing on a recourse and nonrecourse

basis.In nonrecourse servicing,the principal credit risk to the Firm 

is the cost of temporary servicing advances of funds (i.e.,normal serv-

icing advances).In recourse servicing,the servicer agrees to share

credit risk with the owner of the mortgage loans such as FNMA or
Freddie Mac or with a private investor,insurer or guarantor.Losses on

recourse servicing occur primarily when foreclosure sale proceeds of
the property underlying a defaulted mortgage are less than the out-
standing principal balance and accrued interest of the loan and the
cost of holding and disposing of the underlying property.The Firm™s

mortgage loan securitizations are primarily nonrecourse,thereby

effectively transferring the risk of future credit losses to the purchaser

of the securities issued by the trust.As of December 31,2007 and

2006,the amount of recourse obligations totaled $557 million and

$649 million,respectively.
Retained securitizations interest
At both December 31,2007 and 2006,the Firm had,with respect

to its credit card master trusts,$18.6 billion and $19.3 billion,

respectively,related to undivided interests,and $2.7 billion and

$2.5 billion,respectively,related to subordinated interests in

accrued interest and fees on the securitized receivables,net of an

allowance for uncollectible amounts.Credit card securitization

trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest of

4% to 12% of the principal receivables in the trusts.The Firm

maintained an average undivided interest in principal receivables in

the trusts of approximately 19% for 2007 and 21% for 2006.

The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined lim-

its for some credit card,automobile and education securitizations
to cover the unlikely event of deficiencies in cash flows owed to

investors.The amounts available in such escrow accounts are

recorded in Other assets and,as of December 31,2007,amounted

to $97 million,$21 million and $3 million for credit card,automo-

bile and education securitizations,respectively;as of December 31,

2006,these amounts were $153 million and $56 million for credit

card and automobile securitizations,respectively.
The following table summarizes other retained securitization inter-
ests,which are primarily subordinated or residual interests,and are

carried at fair value on the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006Consumer activitiesCredit card(a)(b)$887
$833
Auto(a)(c)85168Residential mortgage(a):Prime(d)12843Subprime93112Education loans55ŠWholesale activities(e)(f)Residential mortgages:Prime(d)253204Subprime294828Commercial and other42117Total
(g)$1,837
$2,305(a)Pretax unrealized gains/(losses) recorded in Stockholders™ equity that relate to
retained securitizationinterests on consumer activities totaled $(14) million and $3million for credit card;$3 million and $4 million for automobile and $44 million and

$51 million for residential mortgage at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(b)The credit card retained interest amount noted above includes subordinated securi-
ties retained by the Firm totaling $284 million and $301 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,that are classified as AFS securities.The securities are
valued using quoted market prices and therefore are not included in the key econom-

ic assumptions and sensitivities table that follows.
(c)In addition to these auto retained interests,the Firm had $188 million of senior secu-
rities at December 31,2006,that were classified as AFS securities.These securities

were valued using quoted market prices and therefore were not included in the key

economic assumption and sensitivities table that follows.The Firm did not have any

such securities at December 31,2007.
(d)Includes Alt-A loans.

(e)In addition to these wholesale retained interests,the Firm also retained subordinated
securities totaling $22 million and $23 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,

respectively,predominately from resecuritizations activities that are classified as

Trading assets.These securities are valued using quoted market prices and therefore

are not included in the key assumptions and sensitivities table that follows.
(f)Some consumer activities securitization interests are retained by the Investment Bank
and reported under Wholesale activities.
(g)In addition to the retained interests described above,the Firm also held investment-
grade interests of $9.7 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,

respectively,that the Firm expects to sell to investors in the normal course of its

underwriting activity or that are purchased in connection with secondary market-

making activities.
Global Reports LLC
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value of the Firm™s retained interests other t
han residential MSRs(for a discussion of residential MSRs,see Note 18 on pages 154Œ157 of this Annual Report) in its securitizations at December 31
,2007 and 2006,
respectively;and it outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptio
ns.
December 31,2007
Consumer activitiesWholesale activities
(in millions,except rates and where
Residential mortgageEducationResidential mortgageCommercialotherwise noted)Credit cardAutoPrime
(c)SubprimeloansPrime
(c)Subprimeand other
Weighted-average life (in years)
0.4Œ0.50.93.71.88.82.9-4.93.30.3Œ11.0
Prepayment rate
(a)15.6-18.9% 1.4%
21.1%26.2%1.0Œ8.0%
19.0-25.3%
25.6%0.0Œ50.0%
(e)PPRABSCPRCPRCPRCPRCPRCPR
Impact of 10% adverse change$(59)$(1)$(8)$(1)$(1)$(6)(29)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(118)(1)(13)(1)(2)(12)(53)(2)
Loss assumption3.3-4.6%0.6%Š%
(b)1.0%Š%
(b)0.6-3.0%4.1%0.0Œ0.9%
(b)Impact of 10% adverse change$(117)$(2)$Š$(2)$Š$(13)$(66)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(234)(3)Š(5)Š(25)(115)(1)
Discount rate
12.0%6.8%12.2%15.0-30.0%
(d)9.0%11.0-23.9%19.3%1.0Œ18.0%
Impact of 10% adverse change$(2)$Š$(5)$(2)$(3)$(13)$ (14)$Š
Impact of 20% adverse change(4)(1)(10)(4)(5)(26)(27)(1)
December 31,2006
Consumer activitiesWholesale activities
(in millions,except rates and where
Residential mortgageEducationResidential mortgageCommercialotherwise noted)Credit cardAutoPrime
(c)SubprimeloansPrime
(c)Subprimeand other
Weighted-average life (in years)0.4Œ0.51.13.40.2-1.2Š
2.3-2.51.9
0.2Œ5.9Prepayment rate
(a)17.5Œ20.4% 1.4%19.3%31.1-41.8%Š
10.0-33.6%42.9%0.0Œ50.0%
(e)PPRABSCPRCPRCPRCPRCPR
Impact of 10% adverse change$(52)$(1)$(2)$(2)$Š$(9)$(35)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(104)(3)(5)(2)Š(17)(45)(2)
Loss assumption3.5Œ4.1%0.7%Š%
(b)1.4-5.1%Š0.1-0.7%2.2%0.0Œ1.3%
(b)Impact of 10% adverse change$(87)$(4)$Š$(4)$Š$(3)$(42)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(175)(7)Š(8)Š(7)(82)(1)
Discount rate12.0%7.6%8.4%15.0Œ30.0%
(d)Š16.0-20.0%16.9%0.5Œ14.0%
Impact of 10% adverse change$(2)$(1)$(1)$(2)$Š$(7)$    (18)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(3)(2)(3)(4)Š(16)(32)(2)
(a)PPR:principal payment rate;ABS:absolute prepayment speed;CPR:constant prepayment rate.
(b)Expected credit losses for prime residential mortgage,education loans and certain wholesale securitizations are minimal and 
are incorporated into other assumptions.
(c) Includes Alt-A loans.

(d) Residual interests from subprime mortgage Net Interest Margin securitizations are valued using a 30% discount rate.
(e)Prepayment risk on certain wholesale retained interests for commercial and other are minimal and are incorporated into other
 assumptions.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
143The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical.
Changes in fair value based upon a 10% or 20% variation in

assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated easily because the

relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair
value may not be linear.Also,in the table,the effect that a change in
a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated
without changing any other assumption.In reality,changes in one

factor may result in changes in another,which might counteract or

magnify the sensitivities.
Expected static-pool net credit losses include actual incurred losses plus projected net credit losses,divided by the original 
balance of the outstand-ings comprising the securitization pool.The table below displays the expected static-pool net credit losses for 2007,2006 and 2
005,based upon
securitizations occurring in that year.
Loans securitized in:
(a)200720062005
Residential mortgage(b)AutoResidential mortgage
(b)AutoResidential mortgage
(b)AutoDecember 31,20077.8%NA
16.1%0.7%11.6%0.5%
December 31,2006
NANA
4.40.63.50.7
December 31,2005
NANA
NANA3.30.9
(a)Static-pool losses are not applicable to credit card securitizations due to their revolving nature.
(b)Primarily includes subprime residential mortgages securitized as part of wholesale activities.Expected losses for prime resi
dential mortgage securitizations are minimal for consumer
activities.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
144JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The table below presents information about delinquencies,net charge-offs (recoveries) and components of reported and securitize
d financial assets atDecember 31,2007 and 2006 (see footnote (c) below).
Nonaccrual and 90 days orNet loan charge-offs
Total Loansmore past due
(e)(recoveries) Year ended
December 31,(in millions)
200720062007200620072006Home Equity$94,832
$85,730
$810
$454
$564
$143
Mortgage56,03159,6681,79876919056Auto loans and leases
42,35041,009116132354238Credit card 84,35285,8811,5541,3443,1162,488All other loans28,73327,097341322242139Total consumer loans306,298
299,3854,619(f)3,021(f)4,4663,064Total wholesale loans
213,076183,74258942072(22)Total loans reported 519,374
483,1275,2083,4414,5383,042Securitized consumer loansResidential mortgage:Prime(a)9,5104,18064111Subprime2,8233,8151461904656Automobile 2,2764,8786101315Credit card72,70166,9501,0509622,3802,210Other loans1,141ŠŠŠŠŠTotal consumer loans securitized88,451
79,8231,2661,1632,4402,282Securitized wholesale activitiesResidential mortgage:Prime(a)8,79112,528419632ŠSubprime12,15614,7472,71048136113Commercial and other3,41913,756Š6113Total securitized wholesale activities24,366
41,0313,12955037416Total loans securitized
(b)112,817120,8544,3951,7132,8142,298Total loans reported and securitized
(c)$632,191
(d)$603,981
$9,603
$5,154
$7,352
$5,340
(a)Includes Alt-A loans.
(b)Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs were $301.0 billion and $262.9 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respect
ively.The $112.8 billion and $120.9 billion of loans secu-
ritized at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,excludes $168.1 billion and $122.5 billion of securitized loans,in which the 
Firm™s only continuing involvement is the servicing of
the assets;$18.6 billion and $19.3 billion of seller™s interests in credit card master trusts;and $1.5 billion and $256 million
 of escrow accounts and other assets,respectively.
(c)Represents both loans on the Consolidated balance sheets and loans that have been securitized,but excludes loans for which t
he Firm™s only continuing involvement is servicing of the assets.
(d)Includes securitized loans that were previously recorded at fair value and classified as Trading assets.

(e)Includes nonperforming loans held-for-sale of $45 million and $120 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.

(f)Excludes nonperforming assets related to (i) loans eligible for repurchase as well as loans repurchased from GNMA pools that
 are insured by U.S.government agencies of $1.5 billion
and $1.2 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,and (ii) education loans that are 90 days past due and still accruin
g,which are insured by U.S.government agencies
under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $279 million and $219 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.Thes
e amounts for GNMA and education loans areexcluded,as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
145Subprime adjustable-rate mortgage loan modifications
See the Glossary of Terms on page 183 of this Annual Report for the

Firm™s definition of subprime loans.Within the confines of the limited

decision-making abilities of a QSPE under SFAS 140,the operating doc-

uments that govern existing subprime securitizations generally authorize

the servicer to modify loans for which default is reasonably foreseeable,

provided that the modification is in the best interests of the QSPE™s ben-

eficial interest holders,and would not result in a REMIC violation.
In December 2007,the American Securitization Forum (ﬁASFﬂ) issued
the ﬁStreamlined Foreclosure and Loss Avoidance Framework for

Securitized Subprime Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loansﬂ(ﬁthe

Frameworkﬂ).The Framework provides guidance for servicers to stream-

line evaluation procedures for borrowers with certain subprime

adjustable rate mortgage (ﬁARMﬂ) loans to more efficiently provide

modifications of such loans with terms that are more appropriate for
the individual needs of such borrowers.The Framework applies to all

first-lien subprime ARM loans that have a fixed rate of interest for an

initial period of 36 months or less,are included in securitized pools,

were originated between January 1,2005,and July 31,2007,and have

an initial interest rate reset date between January 1,2008,and July 31,

2010 (ﬁASF Framework Loansﬂ).
The Framework categorizes the population of ASF Framework Loans
into three segments.Segment 1 includes loans where the borrower is

current and is likely to be able to refinance into any available mortgage

product.Segment 2 includes loans where the borrower is current,is

unlikely to be able to refinance into any readily available mortgage

industry product and meets certain defined criteria.Segment 3 includes

loans where the borrower is not current,as defined,and does not meet

the criteria for Segments 1 or 2.ASF Framework Loans in Segment 2 of the Framework are eligible for
fast-track modification under which the interest rate will be kept at the

existing initial rate,generally for five years following the interest rate

reset date.The Framework indicates that for Segment 2 loans,

JPMorgan Chase,as servicer,may presume that the borrower will be
unable to make payments pursuant to the original terms of the borrower™s
loan after the initial interest rate reset date.Thus,the Firm may presume

that a default on that loan by the borrower is reasonably foreseeable
unless the terms of the loan are modified.JPMorgan Chase has adopted

the loss mitigation approaches under the Framework for securitized sub-

prime loans that meet the specific Segment 2 screening criteria,and it

expects to begin modifying Segment 2 loans by the end of the first quar-
ter of 2008.The Firm believes that the adoption of the Framework will

not affect the off-balance sheet accounting treatment of JPMorgan
Chase-sponsored QSPEs that hold Segment 2 subprime loans.
The total amount of assets owned by Firm-sponsored QSPEs that hold
ASF Framework Loans (including those loans that are not serviced by the

Firm) as of December 31,2007,was $20.0 billion.Of this amount,$9.7

billion relates to ASF Framework Loans serviced by the Firm.Based on

current economic conditions,the Firm estimates that approximately

20%,10% and 70% of the ASF Framework Loans it services that are

owned by Firm-sponsored QSPEs will fall within Segments 1,2 and 3,

respectively.This estimate could change substantially as a result of 

unanticipated changes in housing values,economic conditions,

investor/borrower behavior and other factors.
The total principal amount of beneficial interests issued by Firm-spon-

sored securitizations that hold ASF Framework Loans as of December

31,2007,was as follows.
December 31,2007
(in millions)2007Third-party$19,636
Retained interest412
Total$20,048
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
146JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 17 ŒVariable interest entities
Refer to Note 1 on page 108 of this Annual Report for a further
description of JPMorgan Chase™s policies regarding consolidation of

variable interest entities.
JPMorgan Chase™s principal involvement with VIEs occurs in the fol-
lowing business segments:Investment Bank:Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in accessing the
financial markets in a cost-efficient manner.The IB is involved with

VIEs through multi-seller conduits and for investor intermediation
purposes as discussed below.The IB also securitizes loans through

QSPEs,to create asset-backed securities,as further discussed in

Note 16 on pages 139Œ145 of this Annual Report.
Asset Management (ﬁAMﬂ):Provides investment management
services to a limited number of the Firm™s mutual funds deemed

VIEs.AM earns a fixed fee based upon assets managed;the fee

varies with each fund™s investment objective and is competitively

priced.For the limited number of funds that qualify as VIEs,AM™s

relationships with such funds are not considered significant vari-

able interests under FIN 46R.Treasury & Securities Services:Provides services to a number of
VIEs which are similar to those provided to non-VIEs.TSS earns

market-based fees for the services it provides.The relationships

resulting from TSS™ services are not considered to be significant

variable interests under FIN 46R.
Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in
accessing the financial markets in a cost-efficient manner.This is

often accomplished through the use of products similar to those
offered in the IB.CB may assist in the structuring and/or ongoing

administration of these VIEs and may provide liquidity,letters of

credit and/or derivative instruments in support of the VIE.The rela-

tionships resulting from CB™s services are not considered to be sig-

nificant variable interests under FIN 46R.
The Private Equity business,included in Corporate,may be involved
with entities that could be deemed VIEs.Private equity activities are

accounted for in accordance with the AICPA Audit and Accounting

Guide Investment Companies(the ﬁGuideﬂ).In June 2007,the
AICPA issued SOP 07-1,which provides guidance for determining

whether an entity is within the scope of the Guide,and therefore

qualifies to use the Guide™s specialized accounting principles

(referred to as ﬁinvestment company accountingﬂ).In May 2007,the

FASB issued FSP FIN 46(R)-7,which amends FIN 46R to permanently

exempt entities within the scope of the Guide from applying the pro-
visions of FIN 46R to their investments.In February 2008,the FASB

agreed to an indefinite delay of the effective date of SOP 07-1 in
order to address implementation issues,which effectively delays FSP

FIN 46(R)-7 as well for those companies,such as the Firm,that have

not adopted SOP 07-1.Had FIN 46R been applied to VIEs subject to

this deferral,the impact would have been immaterial to the Firm™s

consolidated financial statements as of December 31,2007.
As noted above,the IB is primarily involved with multi-seller conduits

and VIEs associated with investor intermediation activities.A discus-

sion of these VIEs follows:
Multi-seller conduitsFunding and liquidityThe Firm is an active participant in the asset-backed securities busi-
ness,and it helps customers meet their financing needs by providing

access to the commercial paper markets through VIEs known as multi-

seller conduits.Multi-seller conduit entities are separate bankruptcy-

remote entities that purchase interests in,and make loans secured by,

pools of receivables and other financial assets pursuant to agreements

with customers of the Firm.The conduits fund their purchases and

loans through the issuance of highly rated commercial paper to third-

party investors.The primary source of repayment of the commercial

paper is the cash flow from the pools of assets.
In most instances,the
assets are structured with deal-specific credit enhancements provided
by the customers (i.e.,sellers) to the conduits or other third parties.

Deal-specific credit enhancements are generally structured to cover a

multiple of historical losses expected on the pool of assets,and are

typically in the form of overcollateralization provided by the seller,

but also may include any combination of the following:recourse to

the seller or originator,cash collateral accounts,letters of credit,

excess spread,retention of subordinated interests or third-party

guarantees.The deal-specific credit enhancements mitigate the Firm™s

potential losses on its agreements with the conduits.
JPMorgan Chase receives fees related to the structuring of multi-sell-er conduit transactions and receives compensation from the multi-

seller conduits for its role as administrative agent,liquidity provider,

and provider of program-wide credit enhancement.
As a means of ensuring timely repayment of the commercial paper,
each asset pool financed by the conduits has a minimum 100%
deal-specific liquidity facility associated with it.Deal-specific liquidity

facilities are the primary source of liquidity support for the conduits.

The deal-specific liquidity facilities are typically in the form of asset
purchase agreements and are generally structured so that the liquidity
that will be provided by the Firm as liquidity provider will be effected
by the Firm purchasing,or lending against,a pool of nondefaulted,

performing assets.In limited circumstances the Firm may provide

unconditional liquidity.
The conduit™s administrative agent can require the liquidity provider
to perform under its asset purchase agreement with the conduit at
any time.These agreements may cause the liquidity provider,includ-

ing the Firm,to purchase an asset from the conduit at an amount

above the asset™s then current fair value Œ in effect providing a guar-

antee of the initial value of the reference asset as of the date of the

agreement.The Firm also provides the multi-seller conduit vehicles with pro-
gram-wide liquidity facilities,in the form of uncommitted short-term

revolving facilities that can be accessed by the conduits to handle
funding increments too small to be funded by commercial paper,and

in the form of uncommitted liquidity facilities that can be accessed
by the conduits only in the event of short-term disruptions in the
commercial paper market.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
147ConsolidatedNonconsolidated
Total
December 31,(in billions)
200720062007200620072006Total assets held by conduits$Š
$3.4
$61.2
$43.6
$61.2
$47.0
Total commercial paper issued by conduitsŠ
3.462.644.162.647.5Liquidity and credit enhancements
Deal-specific liquidity facilities (Asset purchase agreements)
Š0.587.366.087.366.5Program-wide liquidity facilities
Š1.013.24.013.25.0Program-wide limited credit enhancements
ŠŠ2.51.62.51.6Maximum exposure to loss
(a)Š1.088.967.088.968.0(a) The Firm™s maximum exposure to loss is limited to the amount of drawn commitments (i.e.,sellers™ assets held by the multi-s
eller conduits for which the Firm provides liquidity support)of $61.2 billion and $43.9 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,plus contractual but undrawn commitments of $27.7 
billion and $24.1 billion at December 31,2007
and 2006,respectively.Since the Firm provides credit enhancement and liquidity to Firm-administered,multi-seller conduits,the m
aximum exposure is not adjusted to exclude exposurethat would be absorbed by third-party liquidity providers.
Assets funded by the multi-seller conduitsJPMorgan Chase™s administered multi-seller conduits fund a variety of
asset types for the Firm™s clients.Asset types primarily include credit

card receivables,auto loans and leases,trade receivables,education

loans,commercial loans,residential mortgages,capital commitments

(e.g.,loans to private equity,mezzanine and real estate opportunity

funds secured by capital commitments of highly rated institutional

investors),and various other asset types.It is the Firm™s intention that
the assets funded by its administered multi-seller conduits be sourcedonly from the Firm™s clients and not be originated by or transferred

from JPMorgan Chase.
Because the majority of the liquidity facilities will only fund nonde-faulted assets,program-wide credit enhancement is required to

absorb losses on defaulted receivables in excess of losses absorbed

by deal-specific credit enhancement.Program-wide credit enhance-

ment may be provided by JPMorgan Chase in the form of standbyletters of credit or by a third-party surety bond provider.The amount

of program-wide credit enhancement required varies by conduit and

ranges between 5% and 10% of total assets.
The following table summarizes the Firm™s involvement with Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
148JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Ratings profile of VIE assets
(b)Wt.avg.
December 31,2006Investment-gradeNoninvestment-gradeFundedexpected
(in billions)AAA to AAA-AA+ to AA-A+ to A-BBB to BBB-BB+ and belowassetslife (years)
(c)Asset types:Credit card$1.0$9.1$0.4$0.1$Š$10.61.1

Automobile1.16.80.3ŠŠ8.22.3

Trade receivables0.15.01.70.2Š7.01.1

Education loans0.5Š0.4ŠŠ0.91.0

Commercial 0.72.20.9ŠŠ3.83.0

Residential mortgageŠ5.10.6ŠŠ5.70.9

Capital commitmentsŠ1.80.2ŠŠ2.03.0
Other2.03.10.10.2Š5.42.0
Total 
$5.4$33.1$4.6$0.5$Š$43.61.7
(a)Unfunded commitments held by the conduits represent asset purchase agreements between the conduits and the Firm.
(b) The ratings scale is presented on an S&P equivalent basis.

(c) Weighted average expected life for each asset type is based upon the remainder of each conduit transaction™s committed liqu
idity plus the expected weighted average life of the assets
should the committed liquidity expire without renewal,or the expected time to sell the underlying assets in the securitization 
market.
Summary of exposure to Firm-administered nonconsolidated multi-seller conduits 
20072006December 31,UnfundedFundedLiquidity providedTotalUnfundedFundedLiquidity providedTotal
(in billions) commitments
(a)assetsby third partiesexposurecommitments
(a)assetsby third partiesexposure
Asset types:Credit card
$3.3$14.2$Š$17.5
$3.8$10.6$Š$14.4
Automobile4.510.2Š14.7
4.28.2Š12.4
Trade receivables
6.06.6Š12.6
5.67.0Š12.6
Education loans0.89.2Š10.0
0.30.9Š1.2
Commercial 2.75.5(0.4)7.8
2.33.8(0.5)5.6
Residential mortgage
4.63.1Š7.7
4.15.7Š9.8
Capital commitments2.05.1(0.6)6.5
0.82.0(0.2)2.6
Other3.87.3(0.6)10.5
2.35.4(0.3)7.4
Total $27.7$61.2$(1.6)$87.3
$23.4$43.6$(1.0)$66.0
Ratings profile of VIE assets
(b)Wt.avg.
December 31,2007
Investment-gradeNoninvestment-gradeFundedexpected
(in billions)AAA to AAA-AA+ to AA-A+ to A-BBB to BBB-BB+ and belowassetslife (years)
(c)Asset types:Credit card$4.2$9.4$0.6$Š$Š$14.21.5
Automobile1.86.91.4Š0.110.22.3
Trade receivables
Š4.71.70.2Š6.61.3
Education loans1.08.10.1ŠŠ9.20.5
Commercial 0.54.20.70.1Š5.52.6
Residential mortgage
1.50.80.8ŠŠ3.11.5
Capital commitmentsŠ5.1ŠŠŠ5.13.4
Other2.04.60.40.20.17.32.0
Total $11.0$43.8$5.7$0.5$0.2$61.21.8
The following table presents information on the commitments and assets held by JPMorgan Chase™s administered multi-seller condu
its as ofDecember 31,2007 and 2006.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
149The assets held by the multi-seller conduits are structured so that if
the assets were rated,the Firm believes the majority of them would

receive an ﬁAﬂrating or better by external rating agencies.However,

it is unusual for the assets held by the conduits to be explicitly rated

by an external rating agency.Instead,the Firm™s Credit Risk group

assigns each asset purchase liquidity facility an internal risk-rating

based on its assessment of the probability of default for the transaction.

The ratings provided in the above table reflect the S&P-equivalent

ratings of the internal rating grades assigned by the Firm.
The risk ratings are periodically reassessed as information becomes
available.As a result of the deterioration in the credit markets during
the second half of 2007,a number of asset purchase liquidity facilities
had internal ratings downgrades.These downgrades involved facili-

ties across various asset types.The largest concentration of down-

grades related to residential mortgage and education loan exposures.

As of December 31,2007,99% of the assets in the conduits were

risk rated ﬁA-ﬂor better.
Commercial paper issued by the multi-seller conduitsThe weighted average life of commercial paper issued by the multi-

seller conduits was 51 days in 2007,compared with 36 days in

2006,and the average yield on the commercial paper was 5.3% in

2007,compared with 5.0% in 2006.
In the second half of 2007,the asset-backed commercial paper market

was challenging as investors were concerned about potential subprime

mortgage exposures.These concerns negatively affected the ability of

many VIEs to reissue maturing commercial paper.However,investors

have continued to purchase the commercial paper issued by the Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits,although at higher yields and short-

er maturities.Commercial paper spreads widened most significantly in

December 2007,reflecting commercial paper investors™ concerns about

year-end redemptions and their need to have cash available.
In the normal course of business,JPMorgan Chase trades and invests

in commercial paper,including commercial paper issued by the Firm-

administered conduits.The percentage of commercial paper purchased

by the Firm across all Firm-administered conduits during 2007
ranged from less than 1% to approximately 10% on any given day.

The largest daily amount held by the Firm in any one multi-seller

conduit during 2007 was approximately $2.7 billion,or 16%,of the

conduit™s commercial paper outstanding.Total commercial paper held

by the Firm at December 31,2007 and 2006,was $131 million and

$1.3 billion,respectively.The Firm is not obligated under any agree-
ment (contractual or noncontractual) to purchase the commercial

paper issued by JPMorgan Chase-administered conduits.
Significant 2007 activityIn July 2007,a reverse repurchase agreement collateralized by prime resi-

dential mortgages held by a Firm-administered multi-seller conduit was
put to JPMorgan Chase under its deal-specific liquidity facility.The asset
was transferred to and recorded by JPMorgan Chase at its par value

based on the fair value of the collateral that supported the reverse

repurchase agreement.During the fourth quarter of 2007,additional

information regarding the value of the collateral,including performance

statistics,resulted in the determination by the Firm that the fair value

of the collateral was impaired.Impairment losses will be allocated to

the expected loss note (ﬁELNﬂ) holder (the party that absorbs the
majority of the expected loss from the conduit) in accordance with the

contractual provisions of the ELN note.
On October 29,2007,certain structured CDO assets originated in

the second quarter of 2007 and backed by subprime mortgages were

transferred to the Firm from two Firm-administered multi-seller con-

duits.It became clear in October that commercial paper investors

and rating agencies were becoming increasingly concerned about

CDO assets backed by subprime mortgage exposures.Because of

these concerns,and to ensure the continuing viability of the two con-

duits as financing vehicles for clients and as investment alternatives
for commercial paper investors,the Firm,in its role as administrator,

transferred the CDO assets out of the multi-seller conduits.The struc-

tured CDO assets were transferred to the Firm at their par value of

$1.4 billion.As of December 31,2007,the CDO assets were valued

on the Consolidated balance sheet at $291 million.There are no other structured CDO assets backed by subprime 

mortgages remaining in JPMorgan Chase-administered multi-seller con-
duits as of December 31,2007.In addition,the Firm has no plans to

permit the multi-seller conduits to purchase such assets in the future.Consolidation analysisThe multi-seller conduits administered by the Firm are not consolidated

at December 31,2007,because each conduit had issued 
ELNs,the
holders of which are committed to absorbing the majority of the
expected loss of each respective conduit.Implied supportThe Firm™s expected loss modeling treats all variable interests,other

than the ELNs,as its own to determine consolidation.The Firm does

not consider the October 2007 transfer of the structured CDO assets

from the multi-seller conduits to JPMorgan Chase to be an indicator
of JPMorgan Chase™s intent to provide implicit support to the ELN

holders.Instead,this action was a one-time,isolated event,limited to

a specific type of asset that is not typically funded in the Firm™s

administered multi-seller conduits and for which the Firm has no
plans (in its capacity as administrator) to allow the conduits to pur-

chase in the future.
The Firm did not have and continues not to have any intent to pro-
tect any ELN holders from potential losses on any of the conduits™
holdings and has no plans to remove any assets from any conduit
unless required to do so in its role as administrator.Should such a

transfer occur,the Firm would allocate losses on such assets between

itself and the ELN holders in accordance with the terms of the appli-
cable ELN.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
150JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Expected loss modelingIn 2006,the Firm restructured four multi-seller conduits that it
administers.The restructurings included enhancing the Firm™s expected
loss model.In determining the primary beneficiary of the conduits it
administers,the Firm uses a Monte CarloŒbased model to estimate

the expected losses of each of the conduits and considers the rela-
tive rights and obligations of each of the variable interest holders.

The variability to be considered in the modeling of expected losses is

based on the design of the entity.The Firm™s traditional multi-seller

conduits are designed to pass credit risk,not liquidity risk,to its vari-

able interest holders,as the assets are intended to be held in the

conduit for the longer term.Under FIN 46R,the Firm is required to run the Monte Carlo-based
expected loss model each time a reconsideration event occurs.

In applying this guidance to the conduits,the following events are

considered to be reconsideration events as they could affect the

determination of the primary beneficiary of the conduits:,including the issuance of new or additional variable
interests (credit support,liquidity facilities,etc);
,including the change in the level of outstand-
ing variable interests (credit support,liquidity facilities,etc);
and

.

From an operational perspective,the Firm does not run its Monte
Carlo-based expected loss model every time there is a reconsidera-

tion event due to the frequency of their occurrence.Instead,the Firm

runs its expected loss model each quarter and includes a growth
assumption for each conduit to ensure that a sufficient amount of
ELNs exists for each conduit at any point during the quarter.
As part of its normal quarterly model review,the Firm reassesses the
underlying assumptions and inputs of the expected loss model.
During the second half of 2007,certain assumptions used in the

model were adjusted to reflect the then current market conditions.

Specifically,risk ratings and loss given default assumptions relating

to residential subprime mortgage exposures were modified.For other

nonmortgage-related asset classes,the Firm determined that the

assumptions in the model required little adjustment.As a result of

the updates to the model,during the fourth quarter of 2007 the

terms of the ELNs were renegotiated to increase the level of commit-
ment and funded amounts to be provided by the ELN holders.The

total amount of expected loss notes outstanding at December 31,
2007 and 2006,were $130 million and $54 million,respectively.

Management concluded that the model assumptions used were
reflective of market participant™s assumptions and appropriately 

considered the probability of a recurrence of recent market events.
Qualitative considerationsThe multi-seller conduits are primarily designed to provide an efficient

means for clients to access the commercial paper market.The Firm

believes the conduits effectively disperse risk among all parties and

that the preponderance of economic risk in the Firm™s multi-seller
conduits is not held by JPMorgan Chase.T
he percentage of assets inthe multi-seller conduits that the Firm views as client-related represent99% and 98% of the total conduits™ holdings at December 31,2007

and 2006,respectively.
Consolidated sensitivity analysis on capitalIt is possible that the Firm could be required to consolidate a VIE if it

were determined that the Firm became the primary beneficiary of the VIE

under the provisions of FIN 46R.The factors involved in making the

determination of whether or not a VIE should be consolidated are dis-

cussed above and in Note 1 on page 108 of this Annual Report.

The 
table below shows the impact on the Firm™s reported assets,liabilities,
Net income,Tier 1 capital ratio and Tier 1 leverage ratio if the Firm were

required to consolidate all of the multi-seller conduits that it administers.
As of or for the year endingDecember 31,2007
(in billions,except ratios)ReportedPro forma 
Assets$1,562.1$1,623.9
Liabilities1,438.91,500.9

Net income15.415.2

Tier 1 capital ratio8.4%8.4%
Tier 1 leverage ratio6.05.8
The Firm could fund purchases of assets from VIEs should it become
necessary.
Investor intermediationAs a financial intermediary,the Firm creates certain types of VIEs and
also structures transactions,typically derivative structures,with these

VIEs to meet investor needs.The Firm may also provide liquidity and

other support.The risks inherent in the derivative instruments or liq-

uidity commitments are managed similarly to other credit,market or

liquidity risks to which the Firm is exposed.The principal types of

VIEs for which the Firm is engaged in these structuring activities are
municipal bond vehicles,credit-linked note vehicles and collateralized

debt obligation vehicles.
Municipal bond vehiclesThe Firm has created a series of secondary market trusts that provide

short-term investors with qualifying tax-exempt investments,and that

allow investors in tax-exempt securities to finance their investments at
short-term tax-exempt rates.In a typical transaction,the vehicle pur-

chases fixed-rate longer-term highly rated municipal bonds and funds

the purchase by issuing two types of securities:(1) putable floating-

rate certificates and (2) inverse floating-rate residual interests (ﬁresid-

ual interestsﬂ).The maturity of each of the putable floating-rate certifi-

cates and the residual interests is equal to the life of the vehicle,while

the maturity of the underlying municipal bonds is longer.Holders of

the putable floating-rate certificates may ﬁputﬂ,or tender,the certifi-

cates if the remarketing agent cannot successfully remarket the float-

ing-rate certificates to another investor.A liquidity facility conditionally

obligates the liquidity provider to fund the purchase of the tendered
floating-rate certificates.Upon termination of the vehicle,if the pro-

ceeds from the sale of the underlying municipal bonds are not suffi-
cient to repay the liquidity facility,the liquidity provider has recourse

either to excess collateralization in the vehicle or the residual interest

holders for reimbursement.The third-party holders of the residual interests in these vehicles could
experience losses if the face amount of the putable floating-rate cer-

tificates exceeds the market value of the municipal bonds upon termi-

nation of the vehicle.Certain vehicles require a smaller initial invest-

ment by the residual interest holders and thus do not result in excess
collateralization.For these vehicles there exists a reimbursement obli-
Global Reports LLC
20072006Fair value ofFair value of
December 31,assets heldLiquidityExcess/Totalassets heldLiquidityExcess/Total
(in billions) by VIEsfacilities
(c)(deficit)(d)exposureby VIEsfacilities
(c)(deficit)(d)exposureNonconsolidatedMunicipal bond vehicles(a)(b)$19.2$18.1$1.1$18.1
$11.1$10.3$0.8$10.3
Fair value
Wt.avg.
Ratings profile of VIE assets
(e)of assetsexpected
December 31,Investment-gradeNoninvestment-grade
held bylife of assets
(in billions)AAA to AAA-AA+ to AA-A+ to A-BBB to BBB-BB+ and belowby VIEs(years)
Nonconsolidated municipal bond vehicles(a)2007$14.6$4.4$0.2$Š$Š$19.210.0
20069.41.60.1ŠŠ11.110.0
(a) Excluded $6.9 billion and $4.6 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,which were consolidated due to the Firm ow
ning the residual interests.
(b) Certain of the municipal bond vehicles are structured to meet the definition of a QSPE (as discussed in Note 1 on page 108 
of this Annual Report);accordingly,the assets and liabilities
of QSPEs are not reflected in the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets (except for retained interests that are reported at fair v
alue).Excluded nonconsolidated amounts of $7.1 billion and
$4.7 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,related to QSPE municipal bond vehicles in which the Firm owned the resi
dual interests.
(c)The Firm may serve as credit enhancement provider in municipal bond vehicles in which it serves as liquidity provider.The Fi
rm provided insurance on underlying municipal bonds in the
form of letters of credit in the amount of $103 million and $82 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(d)Represents the excess (deficit) of municipal bond asset fair value available to repay the liquidity facilities if drawn.

(e) The ratings scale is presented on an S&P equivalent basis.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
151gation which requires the residual interest holders to post,during the
life of the vehicle,additional collateral to the vehicle on a daily basis

as the market value of the municipal bonds declines.
JPMorgan Chase often serves as the sole liquidity provider and remar-
keting agent of the putable floating-rate certificates.As the liquidity

provider,the Firm has an obligation to fund the purchase of the

putable floating-rate certificates;this obligation is triggered by the fail-

ure to remarket the putable floating-rate certificates.The liquidity

provider™s obligation to perform is conditional and is limited by certain

termination events which include bankruptcy or failure to pay by the
municipal bond issuer or credit enhancement provider,and the immedi-

ate downgrade of the municipal bond to below investment grade.In

vehicles in which third-party investors own the residual interests,in

addition to the termination events,the Firm™s exposure as liquidity

provider is further limited by the high credit quality of the underlying
municipal bonds,and the excess collateralization in the vehicle or the

reimbursement agreements with the residual interest holders.
As remarketing agent,the Firm may hold the putable floating-rate cer-

tificates;at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,the Firm held

$617 million and $275 million of these certificates on its Consolidated
balance sheets.The largest amount held by the Firm at any time dur-

ing 2007 was $1.0 billion,or 5%,of the municipal bond vehicles™ out-

standing putable floating-rate certificates.During 2007 and 2006,the

Firm did not experience a draw on the liquidity facilities.
The long-term credit ratings of the putable floating-rate certificates are

directly related to the credit ratings of the underlying municipal bonds,

and to the credit rating of any insurer of the underlying municipal

bond.A downgrade of a bond insurer would result in a downgrade of

the insured municipal bonds,which would affect the rating of the

putable floating-rate certificates.This could cause demand for these

certificates by investors to decline or disappear,as 
putable floating-rate certificate holders typically require an ﬁAA-ﬂbond rating.At

December 31,2007 and 2006,99% of the underlying municipal

bonds held by vehicles to which the Firm served as liquidity providerwere rated ﬁAA-ﬂ
or better.At December 31,2007 and 2006,$702
million and $606 million,respectively,of the bonds were insured by a

third party.During 2007 and 2006,the municipal bond vehicles did

not experience any bankruptcy or downgrade termination events.
The Firm sometimes invests in the residual interests of municipal bond
vehicles.For VIEs in which the Firm owns the residual interests,the

Firm consolidates the VIEs.The likelihood that the Firm would have to

consolidate VIEs where the Firm does not own the residual interests

and that are currently off-balance sheet is remote.
Exposure to nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs at December 31,
2007 and 2006,including the ratings profile of the VIE™s assets,were 

as follows.
Global Reports LLC
20072006Par value ofPar value of
December 31,DerivativeTradingTotalcollateral heldDerivativeTradingTotalcollateral held
(in billions) receivableassets
(c)exposure(d)by VIEsreceivableassets
(c)exposure(d)by VIEsCredit-linked notes
(a)Static structure$0.8$0.4$1.2$13.5
$0.2$0.1$0.3$15.9
Managed structure(b)4.50.95.412.8
0.40.20.68.9
Total$5.3$1.3$6.6$26.3
$0.6$0.3$0.9$24.8
(a)Excluded fair value of collateral of $2.5 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,which were cons
olidated.(b)Includes synthetic CDO vehicles,which have similar risk characteristics to managed CLN vehicles;2006 amounts have been revis
ed to reflect this presentation.2007 trading assets
amounts include $291 million of transactions with subprime collateral.
(c)Trading assets principally comprise notes issued by VIEs,which from time to time are held as part of the termination of a de
al or to support limited market-making.
(d)On-balance sheet exposure that includes Derivative receivables and trading assets.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
152JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Credit-linked note vehicles
The Firm structures transactions with credit-linked note (ﬁCLNﬂ) vehicles
in which the VIE purchases highly rated assets (such as asset-backed

securities) and enters into a credit derivative contract with the Firm to

obtain exposure to a referenced credit which the VIE otherwise does not

hold.The VIE then issues CLNs with maturities predominantly ranging

from one to 10 years in order to transfer the risk of the referenced cred-

it to the VIE™s investors.Clients and investors often prefer using a CLN

vehicle since the CLNs issued by the VIE generally carry a higher credit

rating than such notes would if issued directly by JPMorgan Chase.The

Firm™s exposure to the CLN vehicles is generally limited to its rights and

obligations under the credit derivative contract with the VIE as the Firm

does not provide any additional financial support to the VIE.

Accordingly,the Firm typically does not consolidate the CLN vehicles.As

a derivative counterparty in a credit-linked note structure,the Firm has a

senior claim on the collateral of the VIE and reports such derivatives on

its balance sheet at fair value.Substantially all of the collateral pur-

chased by such VIEs is investment-grade,with a significant majority

being rated ﬁAAAﬂ.The Firm divides its credit-linked note structures

broadly into two types:static and managed.
In a static credit-linked note structure,the CLNs and associated credit

derivative contract either reference a single credit (e.g.,a multinational

corporation) or all or part of a fixed portfolio of credits.The Firm gener-

ally buys protection from the VIE under the credit derivative.As a net

buyer of credit protection,the Firm pays a premium to the VIE in return

for the receipt of a payment (up to the notional amount of the deriva-

tive) if one or more reference credits defaults,or if the losses resulting

from the default of the reference credits exceed specified levels.
In a managed credit-linked note structure,the CLNs and associated cred-

it derivative generally reference all or part of an actively managed portfo-

lio of credits.An agreement exists between a portfolio manager and the

VIE that gives the portfolio manager the ability to substitute each refer-
enced credit in the portfolio for an alternative credit.By participating in a

structure where a portfolio manager has the ability to substitute credits
within pre-agreed terms,the investors who own the CLNs seek to reduce

the risk that any single credit in the portfolio will default.The Firm does

not act as portfolio manager;its involvement with the VIE is generally

limited to being a derivative counterparty.As a net buyer of credit pro-

tection,the Firm pays a premium to the VIE in return for the receipt of a

payment (up to the notional of the derivative) if one or more credits

within the portfolio defaults,or if the losses resulting from the default of

reference credits exceed specified levels.Exposure to nonconsolidated

credit-linked  note VIEs at December 31,2007 and 2006,was as follows.
Collateralized Debt Obligations vehiclesA CDO typically refers to a security that is collateralized by a pool of

bonds,loans,equity,derivatives or other assets.The Firm™s involvement

with a particular CDO vehicle may take one or more of the following

forms:arranger,warehouse funding provider,placement agent or

underwriter,secondary market-maker for securities issued,or derivative

counterparty.
Prior to the formal establishment of a CDO vehicle,there is a warehousing

period where a VIE may be used to accumulate the assets which will be

subsequently securitized and will serve as the collateral for the securities

to be issued to investors.During this warehousing period,the Firm may

provide all or a portion of the financing to the VIE,for which the Firm
earns interest on the amounts it finances.A third-party asset manager
that will serve as the manager for the CDO vehicle uses the warehouse
funding provided by the Firm to purchase the financial assets.
The fund-
ing commitments generally are one year in duration.In the event that

the securitization of assets does not occur within the committed financ-
ing period,the warehoused assets are generally liquidated.
Because of the varied levels of support provided by the Firm during
the warehousing period,which typically averages six to nine months,

each CDO warehouse VIE is assessed in accordance with FIN 46(R) to

determine whether the Firm is considered the primary beneficiary that
should consolidate the VIE.In general,the Firm would consolidate the

warehouse VIE unless another third party,typically the asset manager,
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
153Exposures to CDO warehouse VIEs at December 31,2007 and 2006,were as follows.
December 31,2007
Funded UnfundedTotal
(in billions) loanscommitments
(a)exposure(b)CDO warehouse VIEs
Consolidated$2.4$1.9$4.3
Nonconsolidated2.73.46.1
Total
$5.1$5.3$10.4
December 31,2006Funded UnfundedTotal
(in billions) loanscommitments
(a)exposure(b)CDO warehouse VIEs
Consolidated$2.3$2.5$4.8
Nonconsolidated3.65.99.5
Total
$5.9$8.4$14.3
Ratings profile of VIE assets
(c)December 31,Investment-gradeNoninvestment-gradeTotal
(in billions)AAA to AAA-AA+ to AA-A+ to A-BBB to BBB-BB+ and belowexposure
Nonconsolidated CDO warehouse VIEs
2007$Š$Š$Š$Š$2.7$2.7
2006ŠŠŠ0.82.83.6
(a) Typically contingent upon certain asset-quality conditions being met by asset managers.
(b) The aggregate of the fair value of loan exposure and any unfunded contractually committed financing.

(c) The ratings scale is based upon JPMorgan Chase™s internal risk ratings and is presented on an S&P equivalent basis.
provides significant protection for potential declines in the value of the
assets held by the VIE.In those cases,the third party that provides the

protection to the warehouse VIE would consolidate the VIE.
Once the portfolio of warehoused assets is large enough,the VIE will

issue securities.The proceeds from the securities issuance will be used 

to repay the warehouse financing obtained from the Firm and other

counterparties.In connection with the establishment of the CDO vehicle,

the Firm typically earns a fee for arranging the CDO vehicle and distrib-

uting the securities (as placement agent and/or underwriter) and doesnot typically own any equity tranches issued.Once the CDO vehicle

closes and issues securities,the Firm has no further obligation to pro-

vide further support to the vehicle.At the time of closing,the Firm

may hold unsold positions that the Firm was not able to place with

third-party investors.The amount of unsold positions at December 31,

2007,was insignificant.In addition,the Firm may on occasion hold

some of the CDO vehicles™ securities as a secondary market-maker or

as a principal investor,or it may be a derivative counterparty to the

vehicles.At December 31,2007 and 2006,these amounts were not

significant.Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
154JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Consolidated VIE assets
The following table summarizes the Firm™s total consolidated VIE

assets,by classification,on the Consolidated balance sheets,as of

December 31,2007 and 2006.
December 31,(in billions)
20072006Consolidated VIE assets
Securities purchased under resale agreements(a)$0.1
$8.0
Trading assets
(b)14.49.8Investment securities Š0.2Loans(a)4.415.9Other assets0.72.9Total consolidated assets$19.6
$36.8
(a) Included activity conducted by the Firm in a principal capacity,primarily in the IB.
(b)Included the fair value of securities and derivative receivables.
The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated
VIEs are classified in the line item titled,ﬁBeneficial interests issued
by consolidated variabl
e interest entitiesﬂon the Consolidated bal-
ance sheets.The holders of these beneficial interests do not have

recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase.See Note 21 on

page 159 of this Annual Report for the maturity profile of FIN 46

long-term beneficial interests.
Other topics related to VIEs
VIEs Structured by Unrelated PartiesThe Firm enters into transactions with VIEs structured by other par-
ties.These transactions include,for example,acting as a derivative

counterparty,liquidity provider,investor,underwriter,placement

agent,trustee or custodian.These transactions are conducted at

arm™s length,and individual credit decisions are based upon the

analysis of the specific VIE,taking into consideration the quality of

the underlying assets.Where these activities do not cause JPMorgan

Chase to absorb a majority of the expected losses of the VIEs or to

receive a majority of the residual returns of the VIEs,JPMorgan

Chase records and reports these positions on its balance sheet simi-
lar to the way it would record and report positions from any other

third-party transaction.These transactions are not considered signifi-

cant for disclosure purposes under FIN 46(R).Note 18 ŒGoodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill is not amortized.It is instead tested for impairment in accor-

dance with SFAS 142 at the reporting-unit segment,which is generally

one level below the six major reportable business segments (as

described in Note 34 on pages 175Œ177 of this Annual Report);plus

Private Equity (which is included in Corporate).Goodwill is tested

annually (during the fourth quarter) or more often if events or circum-
stances,such as adverse changes in the business climate,indicate there

may be impairment.Intangible 
assets determined to have indefinite
lives are not amortized but instea
d are tested for impairmentat least
annually,or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indi-

cate that the asset might be impaired.The impairment test compares

the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying

amount.Other acquired intangible assets determined to have finite

lives,such as core 
deposits and credit card relationships,are amortized
over their estimated usefullives in a manner that best reflects the eco-
nomic benefits of the intangible asset.In addition,impairment testing

is performed periodically on these amortizing intangible assets.
Goodwill and other intangible assets consist of the following.December 31,(in millions)
20072006Goodwill$45,270
$45,186
Mortgage servicing rights
8,6327,546Purchased credit card relationships2,3032,935All other intangibles:Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles$346
$302
Core deposit intangibles2,0672,623Other intangibles1,3831,446Total All other intangible assets$3,796
$4,371
GoodwillThe $84 million increase in Goodwill from 2006 primarily resulted

from certain acquisitions by TSS and CS,and currency translation

adjustments on the Sears Canada credit card acquisition.Partially

offsetting these increases was a reduction in Goodwill from the

adoption of FIN 48,as well as tax-related purchase accounting

adjustments.For additional information see Note 26 on pages

164Œ165 of this Annual Report.
Goodwill was not impaired at December 31,2007,or 2006,nor was
any goodwill written off due to impairment during 2007 and 2006.Goodwill attributed to the business segments was as follows.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006Investment Bank$3,578
$3,526
Retail Financial Services
16,84816,955Card Services12,81012,712Commercial Banking2,8732,901Treasury & Securities Services
1,6601,605Asset Management7,1247,110Corporate (Private Equity)
377377Total Goodwill$45,270
$45,186
Mortgage servicing rights JPMorgan Chase recognizes as intangible assets mortgage servicingrights,which represent the right to perform specified residential mort-

gage servicing activities for others.MSRs are either purchased from

third parties or retained upon sale or securitization of mortgage loans.

Servicing activities include collecting principal,interest,and escrow

payments from borrowers;making tax and insurance payments on

behalf of the borrowers;monitoring delinquencies and executing fore-

closure proceedings;and accounting for and remitting principal and

interest payments to the investors of the mortgage-backed securities.
The amount initially capitalized as MSRs represents the amount paid

to third parties to acquire MSRs or is the estimate of fair value,if

retained upon the sale or securitization of mortgage loans.The Firm

estimates the fair value of MSRs for initial capitalization and ongoing

valuation using an option-adjusted spread model,which projects MSR

cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios in conjunction with the

Firm™s proprietary prepayment model,and then discounts these cash
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
155flows at risk-adjusted rates.The model considers portfolio characteris-
tics,contractually specified servicing fees,prepayment assumptions,

delinquency rates,late charges,other ancillary revenue and costs to

service,and other economic factors.The Firm reassesses and periodi-

cally adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions used in the OAS
model to reflect market conditions and assumptions that a market par-

ticipant would consider in valuing the MSR asset.During the fourth

quarter of the 2007,the Firm™s proprietary prepayment model was

refined to reflect a decrease in estimated future mortgage prepay-
ments based upon a number of market related factors including a

downward trend in home prices,general tightening of credit under-

writing standards and the associated impact on refinancing activity.

The Firm compares fair value estimates and assumptions to observable

market data where available and to recent market activity and actual

portfolio experience.
The fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates,includ-
ing their effect on prepayment speeds.JPMorgan Chase uses or has

used combinations of derivatives,AFS securities and trading instru-

ments to manage changes in the fair value of MSRs.The intent is to

offset any changes in the fair value of MSRs with changes in the fair

value of the related risk management instruments.MSRs decrease in

value when interest rates decline.Conversely,securities (such as mort-

gage-backed securities),principal-only certificates and certain deriva-

tives (when the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments) increase in

value when interest rates decline.
In March 2006,the FASB issued SFAS 156,which permits an entity a
one-time irrevocable election to adopt fair value accounting for a class
of servicing assets.JPMorgan Chase elected to adopt the standard

effective January 1,2006,and defined MSRs as one class of servicing

assets for this election.At the transition date,the fair value of the

MSRs exceeded their carrying amount,net of any related valuation

allowance,by $150 million net of taxes.This amount was recorded

as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of January

1,2006.MSRs are recognized in the Consolidated balance sheet at

fair value,and changes in their fair value are recorded in current-

period earnings.Revenue amounts related to MSRs and the financial

instruments used to manage the risk of MSRs are recorded in
Mortgage fees and related income.
For the year ended December 31,2005,MSRs were accounted for under

SFAS 140,using a lower of cost or fair value approach.Under this

approach,MSRs were amortized as a reduction of the actual servicing

income received in proportion to,and over the period of,the estimated

future net servicing income stream of the underlying mortgage loans.For

purposes of evaluating and measuring impairment of MSRs,the Firm

stratified the portfolio on the basis of the predominant risk characteristics,

which are loan type and interest rate.Any indicated impairment was rec-

ognized as a reduction in revenue through a valuation allowance,which

represented the extent to which the carrying value of an individual stra-

tum exceeded its estimated fair value.Any gross carrying value and relat-
ed valuation allowance amounts which were not expected to be recov-

ered in the foreseeable future,based upon the interest rate scenario,

were considered to be other-than-temporary.
Prior to the adoption of SFAS 156,the Firm designated certain deriva-

tives used to risk manage MSRs (e.g.,a combination of swaps,swap-

tions and floors) as SFAS 133 fair value hedges of benchmark interest

rate risk.SFAS 133 hedge accounting allowed the carrying value of

the hedged MSRs to be adjusted through earnings in the same period
that the change in value of the hedging derivatives was recognized

through earnings.The designated hedge period was daily.In designat-

ing the benchmark interest rate,the Firm considered the impact that

the change in the benchmark rate had on the prepayment speed esti-

mates in determining the fair value of the MSRs.Hedge effectiveness

was assessed using a regression analysis of the change in fair value

of the MSRs as a result of changes in benchmark interest rates and of

the change in the fair value of the designated derivatives.The valua-

tion adjustments to both the MSRs and SFAS 133 derivatives were

recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.With the election to

apply fair value accounting to the MSRs under SFAS 156,SFAS 133

hedge accounting is no longer necessary.For a further discussion on

derivative instruments and hedging activities,see Note 30 on pages

168Œ169 of this Annual Report.
The following table summarizes MSR activity,certain key assumptions,
and the sensitivity of the fair value of MSRs to adverse changes in

those key assumptions for the years ended December 31,2007 and

2006,during which period MSRs were accounted for under SFAS

156.Year ended December 31,
(in millions)20072006Balance at beginning of period after valuation allowance
$7,546
$6,452
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principleŠ230Fair value at beginning of period7,546
6,682Originations of MSRs2,3351,512Purchase of MSRs798627Total additions3,133
2,139Change in valuation due to inputs and assumptions
(a)(516)165Other changes in fair value
(b)(1,531)(1,440)Total change in fair value
(2,047)(1,275)Fair value at December 31$ 
8,632$7,546
Change in unrealized (losses) gains included in incomerelated to MSRs held at December 31$(516)
NA(a)Represents MSR asset fair value adjustments due to changes in market-based
inputs,such as interest rates and volatility,as well as updates to assumptions

used in the MSR valuation model.This caption also represents total realized and

unrealized gains (losses) included in Net income per the SFAS 157 disclosure for

fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs (level 3).These

changes in fair value are recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
(b) Includes changes in the MSR value due to modeled servicing portfolio runoff (or time
decay).This caption represents the impact of cash settlements per the SFAS 157 

disclosure for fair value measurement using significant unobservable inputs (level 3).

These changes in fair value are recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
156JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to
determine the fair value of the Firm™s MSRs at December 31,

2007 and 2006,respectively;and it outlines the sensitivities of

those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes

in those assumptions.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except rates and where otherwise noted)
20072006Weighted-average prepayment speed 
assumption (CPR)12.49%17.02%Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change
$(481)
$(381)
Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change
(926)(726)Weighted-average discount rate 
10.53%9.32%Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change
$(345)
$(254)
Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change
(664)(491)Contractual service fees,late fees and other ancillary
fees included in Mortgage fees and related income$2,429
$2,038
Third-party Mortgage loans serviced at December 31 
(in billions)
$614.7
$526.7
CPR:Constant prepayment rate.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and
should be used with caution.Changes in fair value based upon a

10% and 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be easily

extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assump-

tions to the change in fair value may not be linear.Also,in this table,

the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the
fair value is calculated without changing any other assumption.In

reality,changes in one factor may result in changes in another,which

might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
The following table summarizes MSR activity for the year ended

December 31,2005,during which period MSRs were accounted for

under SFAS 140.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except rates and where otherwise noted)2005
(c)Balance at January 1$6,111
Originations of MSRs1,301
Purchase of MSRs596
Total additions
1,897Other-than-temporary impairment(1)
Amortization(1,295)
SFAS 133 hedge valuation adjustments90
Balance at December 316,802Less:valuation allowance
(a)350Balance at December 31,after valuation 
allowance$6,452
Estimated fair value at December 31$6,682
Weighted-average prepayment speed assumption (CPR)17.56%
Weighted-average discount rate9.68%
Valuation allowance at January 1$1,031
Other-than-temporary impairment
(b)(1)SFAS 140 impairment (recovery) adjustment(680)
Valuation allowance at December 31
$350
Contractual service fees,late fees and other ancillary 
fees included in Mortgage fees and related income$1,769
Third-party Mortgage loans serviced 
at December 31 (in billions)$467.5
(a)The valuation allowance in the preceding table at December 31,2005,represented
the extent to which the carrying value of MSRs exceeded the estimated fair value 

for its applicable SFAS 140 strata.Changes in the valuation allowance were the

result of the recognition of impairment or the recovery of previously recognized
impairment charges due to changes in market conditions during the period.
(b)The Firm recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of its MSRs of $1 million in
2005,which permanently reduced the gross carrying value of the MSRs and the 

related valuation allowance.The permanent reduction precluded subsequent rever-

sals.This write-down had no impact on the results of operations or financial condi-

tion of the Firm.(c)During the fourth quarter of 2005,the Firm began valuing MSRs using an OAS valua-

tion model.Prior to the fourth quarter of 2005,MSRs were valued using cash flows and

discount rates determined by a ﬁstaticﬂor single interest rate path valuation model.
CPR:Constant prepayment rate
Purchased credit card relationships and All other 
intangible assets    

During 2007,Purchased credit card relationships and all other 

intangible assets decreased $632 million and $575 million,respec-

tively,primarily as a result of amortization expense.
Except for $513 million of indefinite-lived intangibles related to asset
management advisory contracts which are not amortized,but instead

are tested for impairment at least annually,the remainder of the

Firm™s other acquired intangible assets are subject to amortization.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
157The components of credit card relationships,core deposits and other intangible assets were as follows.
20072006NetNet
GrossAccumulatedcarryingGrossAccumulatedcarrying
December 31,(in millions)amountamortizationvalueamountamortizationvalue
Purchased credit card relationships$5,794$3,491$2,303
$5,716$2,781$2,935
All other intangibles:Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles
42276346
36765302
Core deposit intangibles4,2812,2142,067
4,2831,6602,623
Other intangibles2,026643
(a)1,3831,961515
(a)1,446(a)Includes amortization expense related to servicing assets on securitized automobile loans,which is recorded in Lending & deposi
t-related fees,of $9 million and $11 million for the years
ended December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
Amortization expenseThe following table presents amortization expense related to credit card relationships,core deposits and All other intangible a
ssets.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Purchased credit card relationships$710
$731$703
All other intangibles:Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles
11636
Core deposit intangibles554568623
Other intangibles(a)119123128
Total amortization expense$1,394
$1,428$1,490
(a)  Amortization expense related to the aforementioned selected corporate trust businesses were reported in Income from discon
tinued operations for all periods presented.
Future amortization expense
The following table presents estimated future amortization expense related to credit card relationships,core deposits and All o
ther intangible assetsat December 31,2007.
Other credit Purchased creditcard-relatedCore depositAll other
Year ended December 31,(in millions)card relationshipsintangiblesintangiblesintangible assets
Total
2008$615$23$479 $114$1,231
200943829397103967

20103563833686816

20112934329376705
20122545125173629
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
158JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 19 ŒPremises and equipment
Premises and equipment,including leasehold improvements,are 
carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
JPMorgan Chase computes depreciation using the straight-line method

over the estimated useful life of an asset.For leasehold improvements,

the Firm uses the straight-line method computed over the lesser of the

remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated useful life of the

leased asset.JPMorgan Chase has recorded immaterial asset retire-

ment obligations related to asbestos remediation under SFAS 143 and

FIN 47 in those cases where it has sufficient information to estimate the

obligations™ fair value.
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisi-
tion or development of internal-use software under SOP 98-1.Once

the software is ready for its intended use,these costs are amortized

on a straight-line basis over the software™s expected useful life,and

reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis.
Note 20 Œ DepositsAt December 31,2007 and 2006,Noninterest-bearing and Interest-

bearing deposits were as follows.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006U.S.offices:
Noninterest-bearing $129,406
$132,781
Interest-bearing (included $1,909 at fair value at December 31,2007) 
376,194337,812Non-U.S.offices:
Noninterest-bearing 6,3427,662Interest-bearing (included $4,480 at fair value at December 31,2007) 
228,786160,533Total$740,728
$638,788
At December 31,2007 and 2006,time deposits in denominations of
$100,000 or more were as follows.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006U.S.
$134,529
$110,812
Non-U.S.
69,17151,138Total $203,700
$161,950
At December 31,2007,the maturities of time deposits were as fol-
lows.
December 31,2007
(in millions)U.S.Non-U.S.
Total
2008$159,663$84,260$243,923
20092,0403072,347

201081980899

2011530156686

20121,2112111,422
After 5 years347253600
Total 
$164,610$85,267$249,877
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
159Note 21 ŒLong-term debt
JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies,although predominantly U.S.dollars,with both fixed and v
ariable interestrates.The following table is a summary of long-term debt carrying values (including unamortized original issue discount,SFAS 13
3 valuation
adjustments and fair value adjustments,where applicable) by contractual maturity for the current year.
By remaining maturity at2007December 31,2007
UnderAfter2006
(in millions,except rates)1 year1Œ5 years5 years
Total
Total
Parent company
Senior debt:(a)Fixed rate
$5,466$14,669$9,251$29,386
$20,316
Variable rate
11,40629,0227,11847,546
28,264Interest rates
(b)0.96Œ6.63%0.75Œ7.43%1.25Œ6.00%0.75Œ7.43%
0.75Œ12.48%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
$903$9,387$17,471$27,761
$26,012
Variable rate
24361,8281,888
1,989Interest rates
(b)5.75Œ6.75%5.90Œ10.00%1.92Œ9.88%1.92Œ10.00%
1.60Œ10.00%Subtotal$
17,799$53,114$35,668$106,581
$76,581
SubsidiariesSenior debt:(a)Fixed rate
$1,493$2,588$2,325$6,406
$10,449
Variable rate
8,60336,26315,69060,556
41,216Interest rates
(b)3.70Œ6.67%4.38Œ4.87%3.85Œ14.21%3.70Œ14.21%
1.76Œ17.00%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
$801$9$8,359$9,169
$4,025
Variable rate
ŠŠ1,1501,150
1,150Interest rates
(b)6.13Œ6.70%6.25%4.38Œ8.25%4.38Œ8.25%
4.38Œ8.25%Subtotal$
10,897$38,860$27,524$77,281
$56,840
Total long-term debt
(c)$28,696$91,974$63,192$183,862
(e)(f)(g)$133,421
FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests:
Fixed rate
$26$503$172$701
$777
Variable rate
91,6464,8536,508
7,559Interest rates
3.63Œ6.50%1.73Œ8.75%3.40Œ12.79%1.73Œ12.79%
1.73Œ12.79%Total FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests
(d)$35$2,149$5,025$7,209
$8,336
(a)Included are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments.Embedded derivatives separated from hybrid securities in acc
ordance with SFAS 133 are reported at fair value and
shown net with the host contract on the Consolidated balance sheets.Changes in fair value of separated derivatives are recorded
 in Principal transactions revenue.Hybrid securities
which the Firm has elected to measure at fair value are classified in the line item of the host contract on the Consolidated ba
lance sheets;changes in fair values are recorded in
Principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated statements of income.
(b)The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year-end,including non-U.S.dollar-fixed- and variab
le-rate issuances,which excludes the effects of the associated
derivative instruments used in SFAS 133 hedge accounting relationships,if applicable.The use of these derivative instruments mo
difies the Firm™s exposure to the contractual interest
rates disclosed in the table above.Including the effects of the SFAS 133 hedge accounting derivatives,the range of modified rat
es in effect at December 31,2007,for total long-term
debt was 0.11% to 14.21%,versus the contractual range of 0.75% to 14.21% presented in the table above.
(c) Included $70.5 billion and $25.4 billion of outstanding structured notes accounted for at fair value at December 31,2007 an
d 2006,respectively.
(d)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.Also i
ncluded $3.0 billion of outstanding structured notes accountedfor at fair value at December 31,2007.
(e)At December 31,2007,long-term debt aggregating $10.8 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase,in whole or in p
art,prior to maturity,based upon the terms specified
in the respective notes.
(f)The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2007 is $28.7 billion in 2008,$30.6
 billion in 2009,$25.3 billion in 2010,$15.1 billion in 2011 and 
$21.0 billion in 2012.(g) Included $4.6 billion and $3.0 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.The aggre
gate principal amount of these notes at their respective maturitieswas $7.7 billion and $6.8 billion,respectively.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
160JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Amount ofPrincipalStated maturity
capital debtamount ofof capital
securitiesdebenturesecuritiesEarliestInterest rate ofInterest
issuedissuedIssueandredemptioncapital securitiespayment/
December 31,2007
(in millions)by trust
(a)to trust(b)datedebenturesdateand debenturesdistribution dates
Bank One Capital III$474$62320002030Any time8.75%Semiannually
Bank One Capital VI52555420012031Any time7.20%Quarterly

Chase Capital II49651119972027Any timeLIBOR + 0.50%Quarterly

Chase Capital III29730619972027Any timeLIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly

Chase Capital VI24925619982028Any timeLIBOR + 0.625%Quarterly

First Chicago NBD Capital I24825619972027Any timeLIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital X1,0001,01320022032Any time7.00%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital XI1,0759902003203320085.88%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital XII4003872003203320086.25%
QuarterlyJPMorgan Chase Capital XIII472487200420342014LIBOR + 0.95%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XIV6005812004203420096.20%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XV9951,02420052035Any time5.88%Semiannually

JPMorgan Chase Capital XVI5004892005203520106.35%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XVII49646720052035Any time5.85%Semiannually

JPMorgan Chase Capital XVIII74874920062036Any time6.95%Semiannually

JPMorgan Chase Capital XIX5625642006203620116.63%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XX99599620062036Any time6.55%Semiannually

JPMorgan Chase Capital XXI844846200720372012LIBOR + 0.95%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XXII99699720072037Any time6.45%Semiannually

JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIII746746200720472012LIBOR + 1.00%Quarterly

JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIV7007002007204720126.88%Quarterly
JPMorgan Chase Capital XXV1,4911,6062007203720376.80%Semiannually
Total
$14,909$15,148
(a)Represents the amount of capital securities issued to the public by each trust,including unamortized original issue discount
.(b)Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures issued to each trust,including unamortized original issue disco
unt.The principal amount of debentures issued to the trusts
includes the impact of hedging and purchase accounting fair value adjustments that were recorded on the Firm™s Consolidated fin
ancial statements.
The weighted-average contractual interest rate for total Long-term
debt was 5.20% and 4.89% as of December 31,2007 and 2006,

respectively.In order to modify exposure to interest rate and currency

exchange rate movements,JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instru-

ments,primarily interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps,

in conjunction with some of its debt issues.The use of these instru-

ments modifies the Firm™s interest expense on the asso
ciated debt.The modified weighted-average interest rate for total long-term debt,

including the effects of related derivative instruments,was 5.13% and

4.99% as of December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(Parent Company) has guaranteed certain debt of

its subsidiaries,including both long-term debt and structured notes sold as
part of the Firm™s trading activities.These guarantees rank on a parity 
with all of the Firm™s 
other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Guaranteed liabilities totaled
$46 million and $30 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by

trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities 

At December 31,2007,the Firm had established 22 wholly owned

Delaware statutory business trusts (ﬁissuer trustsﬂ) that had issued

guaranteed capital debt securities.
The junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the

Firm to the issuer trusts,totaling $15.1 billion and $12.2 billion at

December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,were reflected in the

Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets in the Liabilities section under 

the caption ﬁJunior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held

by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securitiesﬂ(i.e.,trust

preferred capital debt securities).The Firm also records the common

capital securities issued by the issuer trusts in Other assets in its
Consolidated balance sheets at December 31,2007 and 2006.
The debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the Firm,less the com-

mon capital securities of the issuer trusts,qualify as Tier1 capital.The

following is a summary of the outstandingtrust pr
eferred capital debtsecurities,including unamortized original issue discount,issued by

each trust and the junior subordinated deferrable interest debenture

issued by JPMorgan Chase to each trust as of December 31,2007.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
161Note 22 ŒPreferred stock
JPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 200 million shares of preferredstock,in one or more series,with a par value of $1 per
share.There was no preferred stock outstanding at December 31,

2007 and 2006.Preferred stock outstanding at December 31,

2005,was 280,433 shares of 6.63% Series H cumulative 

preferred stock.On March 31,2006,JPMorgan Chase redeemed all

280,433 shares.
Dividends on shares of the Series H preferred stockwere payable quarterly.
Note 23 ŒCommon stock
At December 31,2007,JPMorgan Chase was authorized to issue 

9.0 billion shares of common stock with a $1 par value per share.
Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from treasury) 

by JPMorgan Chase during 2007,2006 and 2005 were as follows.
December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Issued Œ balance at January 1
3,657.8#3,618.2#3,584.8#
Newly issued:Employee benefits and compensation plansŠ39.334.0
Employee stock purchase plansŠ0.61.4
Total newly issuedŠ
39.935.4
Canceled shares(0.1)(0.3)(2.0)
Total issued Œ balance at 
December 313,657.7#3,657.8#3,618.2#
Treasury Œ balance at January 1
(196.1)#(131.5)#(28.6)#
Purchase of treasury stock(168.2)(90.7)(93.5)
Share repurchases related to employeestock-based awards
(a)(2.7)(8.8)(9.4)
Issued from treasury:Employee benefits and compensation plans75.734.4Š
Employee stock purchase plans1.00.5Š
Total issued from treasury
76.734.9Š
Total treasury Œ balance at 
December 31(290.3)(196.1)(131.5)
Outstanding 3,367.4#3,461.7#3,486.7#
(a)Participants in the Firm™s stock-based incentive plans may have shares withheld to
cover income taxes.The shares withheld amounted to 2.7 million,8.1 million and 

8.2 million for 2007,2006 and 2005,respectively.
On April 17,2007,the Board of Directors approved a stock repur-
chase program that authorizes the repurchase of up to $10.0 billion

of the Firm™s common shares,which supersedes an $8.0 billion stock

repurchase program approved in 2006.The $10.0 billion authoriza-

tion includes shares to be repurchased to offset issuances under the
Firm™s employee stock-based plans.The actual number of shares

repurchased is subject to various factors,including market conditions;

legal considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase

activity;the Firm™s capital position (taking into account goodwill and

intangibles);internal capital generation and alternative potential

investment opportunities.The repurchase program does not include

specific price targets or timetables;may be executed through open

market 
purchases or privately negotiated transactions,or utilizing Rule
10b5-1 programs;and may be suspended at any time.During 2007,
2006 and 2005,the Firm repurchased 168 million shares,91 million

shares and 94 million shares,respectively,of common stock under

stock repurchase programs approved by the Board of Directors.
As of December 31,2007,approximately 431 million unissued
shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under various

employee or director incentive,compensation,option and stock 

purchase plans.
Note 24 ŒEarnings per share
SFAS 128 requires the presentation of basic and diluted earnings per

share (ﬁEPSﬂ) in the Consolidated statement of income.Basic EPS is

computed by dividing net income applicable to common stock by the
weighted-average number 
of common shares outstanding for theperiod.Diluted EPS is computed using the same method,for the

numerator,as basic EPS but,in the denominator,the number of com-

monshares reflect,in addition to outstanding shares,the potential

dilution that could occur if convertible securities or other contracts to

issue common stock were converted or exercised into common stock.
Net income available for common stock is the same for basic EPS and

diluted EPS,as JPMorgan Chase had no convertible securities,and

therefore,no adjustments to Net income available for common stock

were necessary.The following table presents the calculation of basic

and diluted EPS for 2007,2006 and 2005.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except per share amounts)
200720062005
Basic earnings per share
Income from continuing operations 
$15,365
$13,649$
8,254Discontinued operations 
Š795229
Net income15,36514,4448,483Less:preferred stock dividends
Š413
Net income applicable tocommon stock$
15,365$14,440$
8,470Weighted-average basic 
shares outstanding3,404#3,470#3,492#Income from continuing operations
per share$4.51
$3.93$
2.36Discontinued operations per share
Š0.230.07Net income per share$
4.51$4.16$
2.43Diluted earnings per share
Net income applicable to common stock$15,365
$14,440$
8,470Weighted-average basic 
shares outstanding3,404#3,470#3,492#Add:Employee 
restricted stock,RSUs,stock options and SARs
10410465
Weighted-average diluted 
shares outstanding
(a)3,508#3,574#3,557#Income from continuing operations
per share$4.38
$3.82$
2.32Discontinued operations per share
Š0.220.06Net income per share$
4.38$4.04$
2.38(a) Options issued under employee benefit plans to purchase 129 million,150 million
and 280 million shares of common stock were outstanding for the years ended
December 31,2007,2006 and 2005,respectively,but were not included in the com-

putation of diluted EPS because the options were antidilutive.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
162JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 25 ŒAccumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) includes the after-tax change in SFAS 115 unrealized gains and losses on AFS secu
rities,SFAS 52
foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of related derivatives),SFAS 133 cash flow hedging activities an
d SFAS 158 net 
lossand prior service cost (credit) related to the Firm™s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.
Net loss andAccumulated
Translationprior service (credit) ofother
Unrealized gains (losses)adjustments,Cashdefined benefit pension comprehensive
(in millions)on AFS securities
(a)net of hedgesflow hedgesand OPEB plans
(e)income (loss)Balance at December 31,2004$
(61)$(8)$(139)$Š$(208)
Net change (163)
(b)Š(255)Š(418)
Balance at December 31,2005
(224)(8)(394)Š(626)
Net change 253
(c)13(95)Š171
Adjustment to initially apply SFAS 158,net of taxesŠŠŠ(1,102)(1,102)
Balance at December 31,2006295
(489)(1,102)(1,557)
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (SFAS 159)(1)ŠŠŠ(1)
Balance at January 1,2007,adjusted285
(489)(1,102)(1,558)
Net change352
(d)3(313)599641
Balance at December 31,2007$380$8$
(802)$(503)$(917)
(a)Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of the AFS securities portfolio and retained i
nterests in securitizations recorded in Other assets.
(b) The net change during 2005 was due primarily to higher interest rates,partially offset by the reversal of unrealized losses
 from securities sales.
(c) The net change during 2006 was due primarily to the reversal of unrealized losses from securities sales.

(d) The net change during 2007 was due primarily to a decline in interest rates.

(e) For further discussion of SFAS 158,see Note 9 on pages 124Œ130 of this Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
163The following table presents the after-tax changes in net unrealized holdings gains (losses),reclassification adjustments for r
ealized gains and losseson AFS securities and cash flow hedges,changes resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of
 related deriva-
tives),net gains and losses and prior service costs from pension and OPEB plans,and amortization of pension and OPEB amounts in
to Net income.
The table also reflects the adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) resulting from the initial application 
of SFAS 158 to the
Firm™s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.Reclassification adjustments include amounts recognized in Net income that had be
en recordedpreviously in Other comprehensive income (loss).200720062005
BeforeTaxAfterBeforeTaxAfterBeforeTaxAfter
Year ended December 31,(in millions)taxeffecttaxtaxeffecttaxtaxeffecttax
Unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities:
Net unrealized holdings gains (losses) arising during 
the period$431$(176)$255
$(403)$144$(259)$(1,706)$648$(1,058)
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains) losses included in Net income164(67)97
797(285)5121,443(548)895
Net change595(243)352
394(141)253(263)100(163)
Translation adjustments:
Translation
754(281)473
590(236)354(584)233(351)
Hedges(780)310(470)
(563)222(341)584(233)351
Net change(26)293
27(14)13ŠŠŠ
Cash flow hedges:Net unrealized holdings gains (losses) arising during 
the period(737)294(443)
(250)98(152)(470)187(283)
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains) losses  included in Net income217(87)130
93(36)5746(18)28
Net change(520)207(313)
(157)62(95)(424)169(255)
Net loss and prior service cost (credit) of defined
benefit pension and OPEB plans:(a)Net gains and prior service credits arising during the period934(372)562NANANANANANA
Reclassification adjustment for net loss and prior servicecredit included in Net income59(22)37NANANANANANA
Net change993(394)599
NANANANANANA
Total Other comprehensive income (loss)$
1,042$(401)$641
$264$(93)$171$(687)$269$(418)
Net loss and prior service cost (credit) of defined
benefit pension and OPEB plans:Adjustments to initially apply SFAS 158
(a)NANANA
$(1,746)$644$(1,102)NANANA
(a)For further discussion of SFAS 158 and details of changes to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss),see Note 9 on pag
es 124Œ130of this Annual Report.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
164JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 26 Œ Income taxesIn June 2006,the FASB issued FIN 48,which clarifies the accounting
for uncertainty in income taxes recognized under SFAS 109.FIN 48

addresses the recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or

expected to be taken,and also provides guidance on derecognition,

classification,interest and penalties,accounting in interim periods

and disclosure.The Firm adopted and applied FIN 48 under the transi-

tion provisions to all of its income tax positions at the required effec-
tive date of January 1,2007,resulting in a $436 million cumulative

effect increase to Retained earnings,a reduction in Goodwill of $113

million and a $549 million decrease in the liability for income taxes.
JPMorgan Chase and eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S.fed-

eral income tax return.JPMorgan Chase uses the asset-and-liability

method required by SFAS 109 to provide income taxes on all transac-

tions recorded in the Consolidated financial statements.This method

requires that income taxes reflect the expected future tax conse-
quences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of

assets or liabilities for book and tax purposes.Accordingly,a deferred

tax liability or asset for each temporary difference is determined

based upon the tax rates that the Firm expects to be in effect when

the underlying items of income and expense are realized.JPMorgan

Chase™s expense for income taxes includes the current and deferred

portions of that expense.A valuation allowance is established to

reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the Firm expects to realize.
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of the Firm™s
businesses,and from conducting business and being taxed in a sub-

stantial number of jurisdictions,significant judgments and estimates

are required to be made.Agreement of tax liabilities between

JPMorgan Chase and the many tax jurisdictions in which the Firm
files tax returns may not be finalized for several years.Thus,the

Firm™s final tax-related assets and liabilities may ultimately be differ-

ent than those currently reported.At December 31,2007,and January 1,2007,JPMorgan Chase™s

unrecognized tax benefits,excluding related interest expense and

penalties,was $4.8 billion and $4.7 billion,respectively,of which $1.3

billion and $1.0 billion,if recognized,would reduce the annual effec-

tive tax rate.As JPMorgan Chase is presently under audit by a number

of tax authorities,it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax bene-

fits could change significantly over the next 12 months.JPMorgan

Chase does not expect that any such changes would have a material
impact on its annual effective tax rate.
The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and

ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the year ended
December 31,2007.
Unrecognized tax benefits
Year ended December 31,2007
(in millions)Balance at January 1,2007$4,677
Increases based on tax positions related to the current period434
Decreases based on tax positions related to the current period
(241)Increases based on tax positions related to prior periods903

Decreases based on tax positions related to prior periods(791)

Decreases related to settlements with taxing authorities(158)
Decreases related to a lapse of applicable statute of limitations(13)
Balance at December 31,2007
$4,811
Pretax interest expense and penalties related to income tax liabilitiesrecognized in Income tax expense was $516 million ($314 million
after-tax) in 2007.Included in Accounts payable,accrued expense and

other liabilities at January 1,2007,in addition to the Firm™s liability

for unrecognized tax benefits,was $1.3 billion for income tax-related

interest and penalties,of which the penalty component was insignifi-

cant.Accrued income tax-related interest and penalties increased to

$1.6 billion at December 31,2007,due to the continuing outstand-

ing status of the unrecognized tax benefit liability,
the penalty com-ponent of which remains insignificant.JPMorgan Chase is subject to ongoing tax examinations by the taxauthorities of the various jurisdictions in which it operates,including

U.S.federal,state and non-U.S.jurisdictions.The Firm™s consolidated

federal income tax returns are presently under examination by the

Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the years 2003,2004 and 2005.

The consolidated federal income tax returns of heritage Bank One

Corporation,which merged with and into JPMorgan Chase on July 1,

2004,are under examination for the years 2000 through 2003,and

for the period January 1,2004,through July 1,2004.Both examina-

tions are expected to conclude in the latter part of 2008.The IRS

audit of the 2006 consolidated federal income tax return has not yet

commenced.Certain administrative appeals are pending with the IRS

relating to prior examination periods,for JPMorgan Chase for the

years 2001 and 2002,and for Bank One and its predecessor entities

for various periods from 1996 through 1999.For years prior to 2001,

refund claims relating to income and credit adjustments,and to tax

attribute carrybacks,for JPMorgan Chase and its predecessor enti-

ties,including Bank One,either have been or will be filed.Also,inter-

est rate swap valuations by a Bank One predecessor entity for the

years 1990 through 1993 are,and have been,the subject of litiga-

tion in both the Tax Court and the U.S.Court of Appeals.
Deferred income tax expense (benefit) results from differencesbetween assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting and
for income-tax return purposes.The significant components of

deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected in the following table.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006Deferred tax assets
Allowance for loan losses
$3,800
$2,910
Allowance for other than loan losses
3,6353,533Employee benefits3,3915,175Non-U.S.operations
285566Fair value adjustments
Š427Gross deferred tax assets$11,111
$12,611Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation and amortization$2,966
$3,668
Leasing transactions
2,3042,675Non-U.S.operations
1,7901,435Fair value adjustments
570ŠFee income
5481,216Other,net
20778Gross deferred tax liabilities$8,385
$9,072
Valuation allowance
$220
$210
Net deferred tax asset$2,506
$3,329
A valuation allowance has been recorded in accordance with SFAS
109,primarily relating to capital losses associated with certain port-

folio investments.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
165The components of income tax expense included in the Consolidated
statements of income were as follows.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Current income tax expense 
U.S.federal
$2,805
$5,512$4,178
Non-U.S.
2,9851,656887
U.S.state and local
343879311
Total current income tax expense
6,1338,0475,376
Deferred income tax expense (benefit) U.S.federal
1,122(1,628)(2,063)
Non-U.S.
(185)194316
U.S.state and local
370(376)(44)
Total deferred income tax 
expense (benefit) 1,307(1,810)(1,791)
Total income tax expense
from continuing operations7,440
6,2373,585
Total income tax expense
from discontinued operations
Š572147
Total income tax expense$7,440
$6,809$3,732
Total income tax expense includes $367 million of tax benefits
recorded in 2006 as a result of tax audit resolutions.
The 
preceding table does not reflect the tax effect of certain itemsthat are recorded each period directly in Stockholders™ equity as pre-
scribed by SFAS 52,SFAS 115,SFAS 133 and SFAS 158,and certain

tax benefits associated with the Firm™s employee stock-based com-

pensation plans.Also not reflected are the cumulative tax effects of

initially implementing in 2007,SFAS 157,SFAS 159 and FIN 48,and

in 2006,SFAS 155,SFAS 156 and SFAS 158.The tax effects of all

items recorded directly to Stockholders™ equity was an increase in

Stockholders™ equity of $159 million,$885 million,and $425 million

in 2007,2006,and 2005,respectively.
U.S.federal income taxes have not been provided on the undistrib-
uted earnings of certain non-U.S.subsidiaries,to the extent that such

earnings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of
time.For 2007,such earnings approximated $1.4 billion on a pretax

basis.At December 31,2007,the cumulative amount of undistributed

pretax earnings in these subsidiaries approximated $3.4 billion.It is

not practicable at this time to determine the income tax liability that

would result upon repatriation of these earnings.
On October 22,2004,the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the
ﬁActﬂ) was signed into law.The Act created a temporary incentive for

U.S.companies to repatriate accumulated foreign earnings at a sub-

stantially reduced U.S.effective tax rate by providing a dividends

received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings to
the U.S.taxpayer (the ﬁrepatriation provisionﬂ).The deduction was

subject to a number of limitations and requirements.In the fourth

quarter of 2005,the Firm applied the repatriation provision to $1.9

billion of cash from foreign earnings,resulting in a net tax benefit of

$55 million.The $1.9 billion of cash was invested in accordance with

the Firm™s domestic reinvestment plan pursuant to the guidelines set

forth in the Act.
The tax expense (benefit) applicable to securities gains and losses for
the years 2007,2006 and 2005 was $60 million,$(219) million and

$(536) million,respectively.
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S.income tax rate to the
effective tax rate for continuing operations for the past three years is

shown in the following table.
Year ended December 31,
200720062005
Statutory U.S.federal tax rate
35.0%35.0%35.0%
Increase (decrease) in tax rate resulting from:

U.S.state and local income taxes,net of
federal income tax benefit
2.02.11.4
Tax-exempt income
(2.4)(2.2)(3.1)
Non-U.S.subsidiary earnings
(1.1)(0.5)(1.4)
Business tax credits(2.5)(2.5)(3.7)
Other,net
1.6(0.5)2.1
Effective tax rate32.6%
31.4%30.3%
The following table presents the U.S.and non-U.S.components of
Income from continuing operations before income tax expense.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
U.S.
$13,720
$12,934$8,683
Non-U.S.
(a)9,0856,9523,156
Income from continuing operations 
before income tax expense$22,805
$19,886$11,839
(a) For purposes of this table,non-U.S.income is defined as income generated from 
operations located outside the United States.
Note 27 ŒRestrictions on cash and 
intercompany funds transfers
The business of JPMorgan Chase Bank,Nati
onal Association
(ﬁJPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.ﬂ) is subject to examination and regula-

tion by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (ﬁOCCﬂ).The

Bank is a member of the U.S.Federal Reserve System and its deposits

are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (ﬁFDICﬂ).
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the ﬁFederal
Reserve Boardﬂ) requires depository institutions to maintain cash
reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank.The average amount of reserve

balances deposited by the Firm™s bank subsidiaries with various

Federal Reserve Banks was approximately $1.6 billion in 2007 and

$2.2 billion in 2006.Restrictions imposed by U.S.federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase
and certain of its affiliates from borrowing from banking subsidiaries

unless the loans are secured in specified amounts.Such secured loans

to the Firm or to other affiliates are generally limited to 10% of the

banking subsidiary™s total capital,
as determined by the risk-based
capital guidelines;the aggregate amount of all such loans is limited

to 20% of the banking subsidiary™s total capital.
The principal sources of JPMorgan Chase™s income (on a parent com-

panyŒonlybasis) are dividends and interest from JPMorgan Chase
Bank,N.A.,and the other banking and nonbanking subsidiaries of

JPMorgan Chase.In addition to dividend restrictions set forth in

statutes and regulations,the Federal Reserve Board,the OCC and the

FDIC have authority under the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act

to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking
organizations they supervise,including JPMorgan Chase and its sub-

sidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies,if,in the banking

regulator™s opinion,payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe
or unsoundpractice in light of the financial condition of the banking
organization.Global Reports LLC
166JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
At January 1,2008 and 2007,JPMorgan Chase™s banking subsidiaries
could pay,
in the aggregate,$16.3 billion and $14.3 billion,respective-
ly,in dividends to their respective bank holding companies without the

prior approval of their relev
antbanki
ng regulators.The capacity to pay
dividends in 2008 will be supplemented by the banking subsidiaries™
earnings during the year.
In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S.and

non-U.S.regulators,as of December 31,2007 and 2006,cash in the

amount of $16.0 billion and $8.6 billion,respectively,and securities

with a fair value of $3.4 billion and $2.1 billion,respectively,were

segregated in special bank accounts for the benefit of securities and
futures brokerage customers.
Note 28 ŒCapital
There are two categories of risk-based capital:Tier 1 capital and Tier 2

capital.Tier 1 capital includes common stockholders™ equity,qualifying

preferred stock and minority interest less goodwill and other adjust-
ments.Tier 2 capital consists of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier

1,subordinated long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as

Tier 2,and the aggregate allowance for credit losses up to a certain

percentage of risk-weighted assets.Total regulatory capital is subject

to deductions for investments in certain subsidiaries.Under the risk-

based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve Board,JPMorgan

Chase is required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and Total (Tier

1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk weighted assets,as well as minimum

leverage ratios (which are defined as Tier 1 capital to average adjust-

ed onŒbalance sheet assets).Failure to meet these minimum require-

ments could cause the Federal Reserve Board to take action.Banking

subsidiaries also are subject to these capital requirements by their
respective primary regulators.As of December 31,2007 and 2006,

JPMorgan Chase and all of its banking subsidiaries were well-capital-
ized and met all capital requirements to which each was subject.
The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries at Decem
ber 31,2007 and 2006.
Tier 1TotalRisk-weightedAdjustedTier 1TotalTier 1
(in millions,except ratios)capital capitalassets
(c)average assets
(d)capital ratiocapital ratioleverage ratio
December 31,2007
(a)JPMorgan Chase & Co.
$88,746$132,242$1,051,879$1,473,5418.4%12.6%6.0%
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.
78,453112,253950,0011,268,3048.311.86.2
Chase Bank USA,N.A.
9,40710,72073,16960,90512.914.715.5
December 31,2006
(a)JPMorgan Chase & Co.$81,055$115,265$935,909$1,308,6998.7%12.3%6.2%
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.68,72696,103840,0571,157,4498.211.45.9

Chase Bank USA,N.A.9,24211,50677,63866,20211.914.814.0
Well-capitalized ratios
(b)6.0%10.0%5.0%
(e)Minimum capital ratios
(b)4.08.03.0
(f)(a) Asset and capital amounts for JPMorgan Chase™s banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany transactions,whereas the respectiv
e amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions.
(b)As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve Board,OCC and FDIC.

(c) Includes offŒbalance sheet risk-weighted assets in the amounts of $352.7 billion,$336.8 billion and $13.4 billion,respectiv
ely,at December 31,2007,and $305.3 billion,$290.1 bil-
lion and $12.7 billion,respectively,at December 31,2006,for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries.
(d) Average adjusted assets for purposes of calculating the leverage ratio include total average assets adjusted for unrealized gai
ns/losses on securities,less deductions for disallowed goodwill
and other intangible assets,investments in certain subsidiaries and the total adjusted carrying value of nonfinancial equity in
vestments that are subject to deductions from Tier 1 capital.
(e) Represents requirements for banking subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora
tion Improvement Act.There is no Tier 1 leverage compo-
nent in the definition of a well-capitalized bank holding company.
(f) The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio for bank holding companies and banks is 3% or 4% depending on factors specified in regula
tions issued by the Federal Reserve Board and OCC.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
167The following table shows the components of the Firm™s Tier 1 and
Total capital.
December 31,(in millions)
20072006Tier 1 capitalTotal stockholders™ equity
$123,221
$115,790
Effect of certain items in Accumulated 
other comprehensive income (loss) excluded from Tier 1 capital
9251,562Adjusted stockholders™ equity124,146
117,352Minority interest
(a)15,00512,970Less:Goodwill
45,27045,186SFAS 157 DVA
882ŠInvestments in certain subsidiaries782420Nonqualifying intangible assets3,4713,661Tier 1 capital88,746
81,055Tier 2 capitalLong-term debt and other instrumentsqualifying as Tier 2
32,81726,613Qualifying allowance for credit losses
10,0847,803Adjustment for investments in certain  
subsidiaries and other595(206)Tier 2 capital43,496
34,210Total qualifying capital$132,242
$115,265
(a) Primarily includes trust preferred capital debt securities of certain business trusts.
Note 29 ŒCommitments and contingencies
At December 31,2007,JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were
obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases for prem-
ises and equipmentused primarily for banking purposes.Certain
leases contain renewal options or escalation clauses providing for

increased rental payments based upon maintenance,utility and tax
increases or require the Firm to perform restorationw
ork on leasedpremises.No lease agreement imposes restrictions on the Firm™s abil-

ity to pay dividends,engage in debt or equity financing transactions

or enter into further lease agreements.
The following table presents required future minimum rental payments
under operating leases with 
noncancelable lease terms that expire afterDecember 31,2007.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
2008$1,040
20091,009

2010934

2011850

2012794
After 20126,281
Total minimum payments required
(a)10,908Less:Sublease rentals under noncancelable subleases
(1,330)Net minimum payment required
$9,578
(a)Lease restoration obligations are accrued in accordance with SFAS 13,and are not
reported as a required minimum lease payment.Total rental expense was as follows.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Gross rental expense$1,380
$1,266$1,239
Sublease rental income(175)(194)(192)
Net rental expense$1,205
$1,072$1,047
At December 31,2007,assets were pledged to secure public deposits
and for other purposes.The significant components of the assets pledged
were as follows.
December 31,(in billions)
20072006Reverse repurchase/securities borrowing agreements$333.7
$290.5
Securities4.540.0Loans160.4117.0Trading assets and other
102.2108.0Total assets pledged$600.8
$555.5
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (ﬁBNYMﬂ),formerly known
as The Bank of New York,has informed the Firm of difficulties in locat-

ing certain documentation,including IRS Forms W-8 and W-9,related

to certain accounts transferred to BNYM in connection with the Firm™s

sale of its corporate trust business.The Firm could have liability to the

IRS if it is determined that there was noncompliance with IRS tax

reporting and withholding requirements,and to BNYM if it is deter-

mined that there was noncompliance with the sales agreements.The

Firm is working with BNYM to locate and verify documents,and to

obtain replacement documentation where necessary.The Firm and

BNYM have jointly notified the IRS of the matter and are working
cooperatively to address the issues and resolve any outstanding

reporting and withholding issues with the IRS.Although the Firm cur-

rently does not expect that any amounts payable would be material,it

is too early to precisely determine the extent of any potential liability
relating to this matter.
Litigation reserve
Insurance recoveries related to certain material legal proceedings were

$36 million,$512 million and $208 million in 2007,2006 and 2005,

respectively.Charges related to certain material legal proceedings were

$2.8 billion in 2005.There were no charges in 2007 and 2006 related

to certain material legal proceedings.
The Firm maintains litigation reserves for certain of its outstanding 

litigation.In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 5,JPMorgan

Chase accrues for a litigation-related liability when it is probable that
such a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be
reasonably estimated.When the Firm is named a defendant in a liti-

gation and may be subject to joint and several liability and a judg-

ment sharing agreement is in place,the Firm recognizes expense and

obligations net of amounts expected to be paid by other signatories
to the judgment sharing agreement.Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
168JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
While the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain,management
believes,in light of all information known to it at December 31,

2007,the Firm™s litigation reserves were adequate at such date.

Management reviews litigation reserves periodically,and the reserves

may be increased or decreased in the future to reflect further relevant

developments.The Firm believes it has meritorious defenses to the

claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding litigation and,
with respect to such litigation,intends to continue to defend itself

vigorously,litigating or settling cases according to man
agement™s
judgment as to what is in the best interests of stockholders.
Note 30 ŒAccounting for derivative 
instruments and hedging activitiesDerivative instruments enable end users to increase,reduce or alter
exposure to credit or market risks.The value of a derivative is derived

from its reference to an underlying variable or combination of vari-

ables such as equity,foreign exchange,credit,commodity or interest

rate prices or indices.JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives

for customers and also is an end-user of derivatives in order to

hedge market exposures,modify the interest rate characteristics of

related balance sheet instruments or meet longer-term investment

objectives.The majority of the Firm™s derivatives are entered into for

trading purposes.Both trading and end-user derivatives are recorded

at fair value in Trading assets and Trading liabilities as set forth in

Note 6 on page 122 of this Annual Report.
Interest rate contracts,which are generally interest rate swaps,for-
wards and futures are utilized in the Firm™s risk management activities

in order to minimize significant fluctuations in earnings that are
caused by interest rate volatility.As a result of interest rate fluctua-

tions,fixed-rate assets and liabilities appreciate or depreciate in mar-

ket value.Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are linked

to the fixed-rate assets and liabilities 
being hedged are expected to
substantially offset this unrealized appreciation or depreciation.
Interest income and Interest expense on variable-rate assets and liabil-

ities increase or decrease as a result of interest rate fluctuations.Gains

and losses on the derivative instruments that are linked to the assets

and liabilities being hedged are expected to substantially offset thisvariability in earnings.Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of

fixed-rate and variable-rate interest payments based on the contractu-

al underlying notional amount.Forward contracts used for the Firm™s

interest rate risk management activities are primarily arrangements to

exchange cash in the future based on price movements in securities.

Futures contracts used are primarily index futures providing for cash

payments based upon the movements of an underlying rate index.
The Firm uses foreign currency contracts to manage the foreign exchange

risk associated with certain foreign currency-denominated assets and lia-
bilities,forecasted transactions denominated in a foreign currency,as well

as the Firm™s equity investments in foreign subsidiaries.As a result of for-

eign currency fluctuations,the U.S.dollar equivalent values of the foreign

currency-denominated assets and liabilities or forecasted transactions

change.Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are linked to

the foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities or forecasted trans-

actions being hedged are expected to substantially offset this variability.

Foreign exchange forward contracts represent agreements to exchange

the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an
agreed-upon price on an agreed-upon settlement date.
The Firm uses forward contracts to manage the overall price risk asso-

ciated with its gold inventory.As a result of gold price fluctuations,

the fair value of the gold inventory changes.Gains or losses on the

derivative instruments that are linked to the gold inventory 
beinghedged are expected to offset this unrealized appreciation or depreci-ation.Forward contracts used for the Firm™s gold inventory risk man-

agement activities are arrangements to deliver gold in the future.
SFAS 133,as amended by SFAS 138,SFAS 149,and SFAS 155,estab-

lishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,

including those used for trading and hedging activities,and derivative

instruments embedded in other contracts.All free-standing deriva-

tives,whether designated for hedging relationships or not,are

required to be recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair
value.The accounting for changes in value of a derivative depends on

whether the contract is for trading purposes or has been designated

and qualifies for hedge accounting.In order to qualify for hedge accounting,a derivative must be considered

highly effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being
hedged.In order for a derivative to be designated as a hedge,there must

be documentation of the risk management objective and strategy,includ-

ing identification of the hedging instrument,the hedged item and the risk

exposure,and how effectiveness is to be assessed prospectively and retro-

spectively.To assess effectiveness,the Firm uses statistical methods such

as regression analysis,as well as nonstatistical methods including dollar

value comparisons of the change in the fair value of the derivative to the

change in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item.The extent to

which a hedging instrument has been and is expected to continue to be
effective at achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows must

be assessed and documented at least quarterly.Any ineffectiveness must

be reported in current-period earnings.If it is determined that a derivative

is not highly effective at hedging the designated exposure,hedge

accounting is discontinued.Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
169For qualifying fair value hedges,all changes in the fair value of the
derivative and in the fair value of the hedged item for the risk being

hedged are recognized in earnings.If the hedge relationship is termi-
nated,then the fair value adjustment to the hedged item continues to

be reported as part of the basis of the item and continues to be amor-
tized to earnings as a yield adjustment.For qualifying cash flow hedges,

the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is

recorded in Other comprehensive income and recognized in the
Consolidated statement of income when the hedged cash flows affect

earnings.The ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are immediately

recognized in earnings.If the hedge relationship is terminated,then the

change in fair value of the derivative recorded in Other comprehensive

income is recognized when the cash flows that were hedged occur,con-

sistent with the original hedge strategy.For hedge relationships discon-

tinued because the forecasted transaction is not expected to occur

according to the original strategy,any related derivative amounts

recorded in Other comprehensive income are immediately recognized in

earnings.For qualifying net investment hedges,changes in the fair

value of the derivative or the revaluation of the foreign

currencyŒdenominated debt instrument are recorded in the translation

adjustments account within Other comprehensive income.
JPMorgan Chase™s fair value hedges primarily include hedges of fixed-

rate long-term debt,warehouse loans,AFS securities,MSRs and gold

inventory.Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative

contract used to modify exposure to interest rate risk,converting

fixed-rate assets and liabilities to a floating-rate.Prior to the adoption

of SFAS 156,interest rate options,swaptions and forwards were also

used in combination with interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value of
the Firm™s MSRs in SFAS 133 hedge relationships.For a further discus-

sion of MSR risk management activities,see Note 18 on pages

154Œ156 of this Annual Report.All amounts have been included in

earnings consistent with the classification of the hedged item,primarily

Net interest income for Long-term debt and AFS securities;Mortgage

fees and related income for MSRs,Other income for warehouse loans;

and Principal transactions for gold inventory.The Firm did not recog-

nize any gains or losses during 2007,2006 or 2005 on firm commit-

ments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
JPMorgan Chase also enters into derivative contracts to hedge expo-

sure to variability in cash flows from floating-rate financial instruments

and forecasted transactions,primarily the rollover of short-term assets

and liabilities,and foreign currencyŒdenominated revenue and

expense.Interest rate swaps,futures and forward contracts are the

most common instruments used to reduce the impact of interest rate

and foreign exchange rate changes on future earnings.All amounts

affecting earnings have been recognized consistent with the classifica-
tion of the hedged item,primarily Net interest income.
The Firm uses forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign curren-

cyŒdenominated debt instruments to protect the value of net invest-

ments in subsidiaries,the functional currency of which is not the U.S.

dollar.The portion of the hedging instruments excluded from the

assessment of hedge effectiveness (forward points) is recorded in Net

interest income.
The following table presents derivative instrument hedging-related
activities for the periods indicated.Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Fair value hedge ineffective net 
gains/(losses)(a)$111$51$(58)
Cash flow hedge ineffective net gains/(losses)(a)292(2)
Cash flow hedging net gains/(losses) on 
forecasted transactions that failed to occur
(b)15ŠŠ(a)Includes ineffectiveness and the components of hedging instruments that have been 
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
(b)During the second half of 2007,the Firm did not issue short-term fixed rate Canadian
dollar denominated notes due to the weak credit market for Canadian short-term

debt.Over the next 12 months,it is expected that $263 million (after-tax) of
net losses recorded in Other comprehensive income at December 31,
2007,will be recognized in earnings.The maximum length of time

over which forecasted transactions are hedged is 10 years,and such

transactions primarily relate to core lending and borrowing activities.
JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of
the Firm™s economic hedges.For example,the Firm does not apply

hedge accounting to standard credit derivatives used to manage the

credit risk of loans and commitments because of the difficulties in
qualifying such contracts as hedges under SFAS 133.Similarly,the

Firm does not apply hedge accounting to certain interest rate deriva-

tives used as economic hedges.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
170JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 31 ŒOffŒbalance sheet lending-related
financial instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g.,com-
mitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its cus-
tomers.The contractual amount 
of these financial instruments repre-sents the maximum possible 
credit risk should the counterparty draw
down the commitment or the Firm fulfill its obligation under the
guarantee,and the counterparty subsequently fail to perform accord-

ing to the terms of the contract.Most of these commitments and

guarantees expire without a default occurring or without being

drawn.As a result,the total contractual amount of these instruments

is not,in the Firm™s view,representative of its actual future credit

exposure or funding requirements.Further,certain commitments,pri-

marily related to consumer financings,are cancelable,upon notice,at

the option of the Firm.To provide for the risk of loss inherent in wholesale-related contracts,

an allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments is

maintained.See 
Note 15 on pages 138Œ139 of this Annual Report for
further discussion of the allowance for credit losses on lending-related
commitments.
The following table summarizes the contractual amounts of offŒbal-

ance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees and

the related allowance for credit losses on lending-related commit-

ments at December 31,2007 and 2006.
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees
Allowance for  
Contractual amountlending-related commitments
December 31,(in millions)
2007200620072006Lending-related
Consumer(a)$815,936
$747,535
$15
$25
Wholesale:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(b)(c)(d)(e)250,954229,204571305Asset purchase agreements(f)90,10567,52996Standby letters of credit andfinancial guarantees
(c)(g)(h)100,22289,132254187Other letters of credit(c)5,3715,55911Total wholesale446,652
391,424835499Total lending-related$1,262,588
$1,138,959
$850
$524
Other guarantees
Securities lending guarantees
(i)$385,758
$318,095
NANADerivatives qualifying as guarantees
(j)85,26271,531NANA(a)Includes credit card and home equity lending-related commitments of $714.8 billion and $74.2 billion,respectively,at Decembe
r 31,2007;and $657.1 billion and $69.6 billion,
respectively,at December 31,2006.These amounts for credit card and home equity lendingŒrelated commitments represent the total 
available credit for these products.The Firm has
not experienced,and does not anticipate,that all available lines of credit for these products will be utilized at the same time
.The Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by pro-
viding the borrower prior notice or,in some cases,without notice as permitted by law.
(b)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $38.4 billion and $39.0 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively,w
hich are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with
the Federal Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(c)Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $28.3 billion and $32.8 billion at December 31,2007 and 20
06,respectively.
(d) Excludes unfunded commitments for private third-party equity investments of $881 million and $589 million at December 31,20
07 and 2006,respectively.Also excludes unfunded
commitments for other equity investments of $903 million and $943 million at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(e)Included in Other unfunded commitments to extend credit are commitments to investment and noninvestment grade counterparties
 in connection with leveraged acquisitions of $8.2 billion.
(f)Largely represents asset purchase agreements to the Firm™s administered multi-seller,asset-backed commercial paper conduits.
It also includes $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion of asset pur-chase agreements to other third-party entities at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(g)JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $15.8 billion and $13.5 billion of these arrangements at December 31,2007 and 200
6,respectively.
(h)Included unused commitments to issue standby letters of credit of $50.7 billion and $45.7 billion at December 31,2007 and 20
06,respectively.
(i) Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $390.5 billion and $317.9 billion a
t December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(j)Represents notional amounts of derivatives qualifying as guarantees.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
171Other unfunded commitments to extend credit
Unfunded commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend only
when a customer has complied with predetermined conditions,and

they generally expire on fixed dates.
Included in Other unfunded commitments to extend credit are com-
mitments to investment and noninvestment grade borrowers in con-

nection with leveraged acquisitions.These commitments are depend-

ent on whether the acquisition by the borrower is successful,tend to

be short-term in nature and,in most cases,are subject to certain con-

ditions based on the borrower™s financial condition or other factors.

Additionally,the Firm often syndicates portions of the initial position

to other investors,depending on market conditions.These commit-

ments generally contain flexible pricing features to adjust for chang-

ing market conditions prior to closing.Alternatively,the borrower may

turn to the capital markets for required funding instead of drawing on

the commitment provided by the Firm,and the commitment may

expire unused.As such,these commitments are not necessarily indica-

tive of the Firm™s actual risk and the total commitment amount may

not reflect actual future cash flow requirements.The amount of these

commitments at December 31,2007,was $8.2 billion.For further
information,see Note 4 and Note 5 on pages 111Œ118 and 119Œ121,
respectively,of this Annual Report.
FIN 45 guaranteesFIN 45 establishes accounting and disclosure requirements for guaran-

tees,requiring that a guarantor recognize,at the inception of a guar-

antee,a liability in an amount equal to the fair value of the obligation

undertaken in issuing the guarantee.FIN 45 defines a guarantee as a

contract that contingently requires the guarantor to pay a guaranteed

party,based upon:(a) changes in an underlying asset,liability or equi-

ty security of the guaranteed party;or (b) a third party™s failure to per-

form under a specified agreement.The Firm considers the following

offŒbalance sheet lending arrangements to be guarantees under FIN

45:certain asset purchase agreements,standby letters of credit and

financial guarantees,securities lending indemnifications,certain

indemnification agreements included within third-party contractual

arrangements and certain derivative contracts.These guarantees are

described in further detail below.
The fair value at inception of the obligation undertaken when issuing

the guarantees and commitments that qualify under FIN 45 is typi-

cally equal to the net present value of the future amount of premium

receivable under the contract.The Firm has recorded this amount in

Other Liabilities with an offsetting entry recorded in Other Assets.As

cash is received under the contract,it is applied to the premium

receivable recorded in Other Assets,and the fair value of the liability

recorded at inception is amortized into income as Lending & deposit-
related fees over the life of the guarantee contract.The amount of

the liability related to FIN 45guarantees recorded at December 31,

2007 and 2006,excluding the allowance for credit losses on lend-

ing-related commitments and derivative contracts discussed below,

was approximately $335 million and $297 million,respectively.
Asset purchase agreements
The majority of the Firm™s unfunded commitments are not guarantees
as defined in FIN 45,except for certain asset purchase agreements that

are principally used as a mechanism to provide liquidity to SPEs,prima-

rily multi-seller conduits,as described in Note 17 on pages 146Œ154 of

this Annual Report.The conduit™s administrative agent can require the

liquidity provider to perform under their asset purchase agreement

with the conduit at any time.These agreements may cause the Firm to

purchase an asset from the SPE at an amount above the asset™s then

fair value,in effect providing a guarantee of the initial value of the ref-

erence asset as of the date of the agreement.In most instances,third-

party credit enhancements of the SPE mitigate the Firm™s potential

losses on these agreements.
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees

Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees are conditional

lending commitments issued by JPMorgan Chase to guarantee the

performance of a customer to a third party under certain arrange-

ments,such as commercial paper facilities,bond financings,acquisi-

tion financings,trade and similar transactions.Approximately 50% of

these arrangements mature within three years.The Firm typically has

recourse to recover from the customer any amounts paid under these

guarantees;in addition,the Firm may hold cash or other highly liquid

collateral to support these guarantees.
Securities lending indemnification Through the Firm™s securities lending program,customers™ securities,via
custodial and non-custodial arrangements,may be lent to third parties.

As part of this program,the Firm issues securities lending indemnifica-

tion agreements to the lender which protects it principally against the
failure of the third-party borrower to return the lent securities.To sup-

port these indemnification agreements,the Firm obtains cash or other

highly liquid collateral with a market 
value exceeding 100% of the value
of the securities on loan from the borrower.Collateral is marked to mar-
ket daily to help assure that collateralization is adequate.Additional col-

lateral is called from the borrower if a shortfall exists or released to the

borrower in the event of overcollateralization.If an indemnifiable

default by a borrower occurs,the Firm would expect to use the collater-

al held to purchase replacement securities in the market or to credit the

lending customer with the cash equivalent thereof.
Also,as part of this program,the Firm invests cash collateral received

from the borrower in accordance with approved guidelines.On an

exception basis the Firm may indemnify the lender against this
investment risk when certain types of investments are made.
Based upon historical experience,management believes that these
risks of loss are remote.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
172JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Indemnification agreements Œ general
In connection with issuing securities to investors,the Firm may enter
into contractual arrangements with third parties that may require the

Firm to make a payment to them in the event of a change in tax law

or an adverse interpretation of tax law.In certain cases,the contract

also may include a termination clause,which would allow the Firm to

settle the contract at its fair value;thus,such a clause would not

require the Firm to make a payment under the indemnification agree-

ment.Even without the termination clause,management does not

expect such indemnification agreements to have a material adverse
effect on the consolidated financial condition of JPMorgan Chase.See

below for more information regarding the Firm™s loan securitization

activities.The Firm 
may also enter into indemnification clauses in con-nection with the licensing of software to clients (ﬁsoftware licenseesﬂ)

or when it sells a business or assets to a third party (ﬁthird-party pur-
chasersﬂ),pursuant to which it indemnifies software licensees for

claims of liability or damage that may occur subsequent to the licens-
ing of the software,
or third-party purchasers for losses they may incurdue to actions taken by the Firm prior to the sale of the business or

assets.It is difficult to estimate the Firm™s maximum exposure under

these indemnification arrangements,since this would require an

assessment of future changes in tax law and future claims that may
be made against the Firm that have not yet occurred.However,based

upon historical experience,management expects the risk of loss to be

remote.
Securitization-related indemnifications

As part of the Firm™s loan securitization activities,as described in 

Note 16 on pages 139Œ145 of this Annual Report,the Firm provides

representations and warranties that certain securitized loans meet

specific requirements.The Firm may be required to repurchase the

loans and/or indemnify the purchaser of the loans against losses due
to any breaches of such representations or warranties.Generally,the

maximum amount of future payments the Firm would be required to
make under such repurchase and/or indemnification provisions would

be equal to the current amount of assets held by such securitization-
related SPEs as of December 31,2007,plus,in certain circumstances,

accrued and unpaid interest on such loans and certain expense.The

potential loss due to such repurchase and/or indemnity is mitigated
by the due diligence the Firm performs before the sale to ensure that

the assets comply with the requirements set forth in the representa-
tions and warranties.Historically,losses incurred on such repurchases

and/or indemnifications have been insignificant,and therefore man-

agement expects the risk of material loss to be remote.
Credit card charge-backs 
The Firm is a partner with one of the leading companies in electronic

payment services in a joint venture operating under the name of

Chase Paymentech Solutions,LLC (the ﬁjoint ventureﬂ).The joint ven-

ture was formed in October 2005,as a result of an agreement by the

Firm and First Data Corporation,its joint venture partner,to integrate

the companies™ jointly owned Chase Merchant Services and
Paymentech merchant businesses.The joint venture provides mer-

chant processing services in the United States and Canada.Under the

rules of Visa USA,Inc.,and Mastercard International,JPMorgan

Chase Bank,N.A.,is liable primarily for the amount of each processed

credit card sales transaction that is the subject of a dispute between

a cardmember and a merchant.The joint venture is contractually

liable to JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.,for these disputed transactions.

If a dispute is resolved in the cardmember™s favor,the joint venture

will (through the cardmember™s issuing bank) credit or refund the

amount to the cardmember and will charge back the transaction to

the merchant.If the joint venture is unable to collect the amount

from the merchant,the joint venture will bear the loss for the amount

credited or refunded to the cardmember.The joint venture mitigates

this risk by withholding future settlements,retaining cash reserve

accounts or by obtaining other security.However,in the unlikely event

that:(1) a merchant ceases operations and is unable to deliver prod-

ucts,services or a refund;(2) the joint venture does not have suffi-

cient collateral from the merchant to provide customer refunds;and

(3) the joint venture does not have sufficient financial resources to
provide customer refunds,JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.,would be

liable for the amount of the transaction,although it would have a

contractual right to recover from its joint venture partner an amount

proportionate to such partner™s equity interest in the joint 
venture.For
the year ended December 31,2007,the joint venture incurred aggre-

gate credit losses of $10 million on $719.1 billion of aggregate vol-
ume processed.At December 31,2007,the joint venture held $779

million of collateral.For the year ended December 31,2006,the joint

venture incurred aggregate credit losses of $9 million on $660.6 bil-
lion of aggregate volume processed.At December 31,2006,the joint

venture held $893 million of collateral.The Firm believes that,based

upon historical experience and the collateral held by the joint venture,

the fair value of the Firm™s chargeback-related obligations would not

be different materially from the credit loss allowance recorded by the

joint venture;therefore,the Firm has not recorded any allowance for

losses in excess of the allowance recorded by the joint venture.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
173Exchange,clearinghouse and credit card association 
guarantees
The Firm is a member of several securities and futures exchanges

and clearinghouses,both in the United States and other countries.

Membership in some of these organizations requires the Firm to
pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by the organization as

a result of the default of another member.Such obligations vary

with different organizations.These obligations may be limited to

members who dealt with the defaulting member or to the amount
(or a multiple of the amount) of the Firm™s contribution to a mem-

bers™ guaranty fund,or,in a few cases,the obligation may be

unlimited.It is difficult to estimate the Firm™s maximum exposure

under these membership agreements,since this would require an

assessment of future claims that may be made against the Firm
that have not yet occurred.However,based upon historical experi-

ence,management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
The Firm is an equity member of VISA Inc.During October 2007,cer-

tain VISA related entities completed a series of restructuring transac-

tions to combine their operations,including VISA USA,under one

holding company,VISA Inc.Upon the restructuring,the Firm™s mem-

bership interest in VISA USA was converted into an equity interest in

VISA Inc.VISA Inc.intends to issue and sell shares via an initial public

offering and to use a portion of the proceeds from the offering to
redeem a portion of the Firm™s equity interest in Visa Inc.
Prior to the restructuring,VISA USA™s by-laws obligated the Firm upon
demand by VISA to indemnify VISA for,among other things,litigation

obligations of Visa.The accounting for that guarantee was not subject

to fair value accounting under FIN 45 because the guarantee was in

effect prior to the effective date of FIN 45.Upon the restructuring

event,the Firm™s obligation to indemnify Visa was limited to certain
identified litigations.Such a limitation is deemed a modification of the

indemnity by-law and,accordingly,is now subject to the provisions
ofFIN 45.The value of the litigation guarantee has been recorded in the

Firm™s financial statements based on its fair value;the net amount

recorded (within Other Liabilities) did not have a material adverse
effect on the Firm™s financial statements.
Derivative guarantees
In addition to the contracts described above,there are certain deriva-

tive contracts to which the Firm is a counterparty that meet the char-

acteristics of a guarantee under FIN 45.These derivatives are record-

ed on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value.These contracts

include written put options that require the Firm to purchase assets
from the option holder at a specified price by a specified date in the
future,as well as derivatives that effectively guarantee the return on a

counterparty™s reference portfolio of assets.The total notional value of

the derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees was $85.3 bil-

lion and $71.5 billion at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.

The Firm reduces exposures to these contracts by entering into offset-

ting transactions or by entering into contracts that hedge the market

risk related to these contracts.The fair value related to these contracts

was a derivative receivable of $213 million and $230 million,and a

derivative payable of $2.5 billion and $987 million at December 31,

2007 and 2006,respectively.
Finally,certain written put options and credit derivatives permit cash
settlement and do not require the option holder or the buyer of credit
protection to own the reference asset.The Firm does not consider

these contracts to be guarantees under FIN 45.
Note 32 ŒCredit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers are

engaged in similar business activities or activities in the same geo-
graphic region,or when they have similar economic features that

would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be simi-

larly affected by changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of its credit
portfolio to assess potential concentration risks and to obtain collat-

eral when deemed necessary.In the Firm™s wholesale portfolio,risk

concentrations are evaluated primarily by industry and by geographic

region.In the consumer portfolio,concentrations are evaluated pri-

marily by product and by U.S.geographic region.
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
174JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 33 Œ International operations 
The following table presents income statement information of JPMorgan
Chase by major geographic area.The Firm defines international activities

as business transactions that involve customers residing outside of the

U.S.,and the information presented below is based primarily upon the

domicile of the customer or the location from which the customer rela-
tionship is managed.However,many of the Firm™s U.S.operations serve

international businesses.
As the Firm™s operations are highly integrated,estimates and subjective

assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and expense between
U.S.and international operations.These estimates and assumptions are

consistent with the allocations used for the Firm™s segment reporting as

set forth in Note 34 on pages 175Œ177 of this Annual Report
.The Firm™s long-lived assets for the periods presented are not considered
by management to be significant in relation to total assets.The majority

of the Firm™s long-lived assets are located in the U.S.
The table below presents both on
Œbalance sheet and off
Œbalance sheet wholesale- and consumer-related credit exposure as of December 31,2007
and 2006.20072006CreditOn-balanceOff-balanceCreditOn-balanceOff-balance
December 31,(in billions)exposure
(b)sheet(b)(c)sheet(d)exposure(b)sheet(b)(c)sheet(d)Wholesale-related:Banks and finance companies$65.5$29.5$36.0
$63.6$28.1$35.5
Real estate38.821.717.1
35.921.614.3
Asset managers 38.716.422.3
25.012.013.0
Healthcare 31.97.724.2
30.16.124.0
Consumer products31.511.619.9
27.19.118.0
State & Municipal Govt31.48.922.5
27.56.920.6
Utilities30.09.021.0
25.15.619.5
Retail & Consumer Services27.811.016.8
22.25.316.9
Oil & Gas26.512.314.2
18.65.912.7
Securities Firms & Exchanges
23.616.57.1
23.115.18.0
All other wholesale391.2145.6245.6
332.6123.7208.9
Total wholesale-related736.9290.2446.7
630.8239.4391.4
Consumer-related:
Home equity169.094.874.2
155.285.769.5
Mortgage 63.456.07.4
66.359.76.6
Auto loans and leases 50.542.48.1
48.941.07.9
Credit card Œ reported(a)799.284.4714.8
743.085.9657.1
All other loans40.128.711.4
33.527.16.4
Total consumerŒrelated1,122.2306.3815.9
1,046.9299.4747.5
Total exposure$1,859.1$596.5$1,262.6
$1,677.7$538.8$1,138.9
(a)Excludes $72.7 billion and $67.0 billion of securitized credit card receivables at December 31,2007 and 2006,respectively.
(b)Includes loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value.

(c)Represents loans and derivative receivables.

(d)Represents lending-related financial instruments.
The Firm does not believe exposure to any one loan product with vary-
ing terms (e.g.,interest-only payments for an introductory period) or

exposure to loans with high loan-to-value ratios would result in a sig-

nificant concentration of credit risk.Terms of loan products and collater-

al coverage are included in the Firm™s assessment when extending credit

and establishing its Allowance for loan losses.
For further information regarding onŒbalance sheet credit concentra-

tions by major product and geography,see Note 14 on page 137 of

this Annual Report.For information regarding concentrations of

offŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments by majorproduct,see Note 31 on pages 170Œ173 of this Annual Report.More

information about concentrations can be found in the following
tables or discussion in the Management™s Discussion and Analysis.
Credit risk management Œ risk monitoringPage 74
Wholesale credit exposurePage 77

Wholesale selected industry concentrationsPage 78

Wholesale criticized exposurePage 79

Credit derivativesPage 81

Credit portfolio activitiesPage 82

Emerging markets country exposurePage 83
Consumer credit portfolioPage 84
Global Reports LLC
Income from continuing  operations before 
Year ended December 31,(in millions)Revenue
(a)Expense(b)income taxesNet income
2007Europe/Middle East and Africa
$12,070$8,445$3,625$2,585
Asia and Pacific
4,7303,1171,613945
Latin America and the Caribbean
2,0289751,053630
Other40728911879
Total international19,23512,8266,4094,239
Total U.S.
52,13735,74116,39611,126
Total$71,372$48,567$22,805$15,365
2006Europe/Middle East and Africa$11,342$7,471$3,871$2,774

Asia and Pacific3,2272,649578400

Latin America and the Caribbean1,342820522333
Other38124014190
Total international
16,29211,1805,1123,597
Total U.S.45,70730,93314,77410,847
Total
$61,999$42,113$19,886$14,444
2005Europe/Middle East and Africa$7,795$5,625$2,170$1,547

Asia and Pacific2,8572,075782509

Latin America and the Caribbean973506467285
Other165897644
Total international
11,7908,2953,4952,385
Total U.S.42,45834,1148,3446,098
Total 
$54,248$42,409$11,839$8,483
(a)Revenue is composed of Net interest income and Noninterest revenue.
(b)Expense is composed of Noninterest expense and Provision for credit losses.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
175Note 34 Œ Business segments JPMorgan Chase is organized into six major reportable business seg-ments Š Investment Bank,Retail Financial Services,Card Services,

Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset

Management,as well as a Corporate segment.The segments are based

upon the products and services provided or the type of customer
served,and they reflect the manner in which financial information is

currently evaluated by management.Results of these lines of business

are presented on a managed basis.For a definition of managed basis,

see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP

financial measures,on pages 36Œ37 of this Annual Report.For a fur-

ther discussion concerning JPMorgan Chase™s business segments,see

Business segment results on pages 38Œ39 of this Annual Report.
Business segment financial disclosures
Capital allocation changesEffective January 1,2006,the Firm refined its methodology for allocat-

ing capital (i.e.,equity) to the business segments.As a result of this

refinement,RFS,
CS,CB,TSS and AM have higher amounts of capital
allocated to them commencing in the first quarter of 2006.The revised
methodology considers for each line of business,among other things,

goodwill associated with such business segment™s acquisitions since the

Merger.In management™s view,the revised methodology assigns respon-

sibility to the lines of business to generate returns on the amount of cap-

ital supporting acquisition-related goodwill.As part of this refinement in

the capital allocation methodology,the Firm assigned to the Corporate

segment an amount of equity capital equal to the then-current book
value of goodwill from and prior to the Merger.As prior periods have not

been revised to reflect the new capital allocations,capital allocated to

the respective lines of business for 2005 is not comparable to subse-

quent periods and certain business metrics,such as return on common

equity,are 
not comparable to the current presentation.The Firm may
revise its equity 
capital allocation methodology again in the future.
Discontinued operations

As a result of the transaction with The Bank of New York,selected

corporate trust businesses have been transferred from TSS to the

Corporate segment and reported in discontinued operations for all

periods reported.Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
176JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Segment results and reconciliation
(a)(table continued on next page)Year ended December 31,
Investment BankRetail Financial ServicesCard Services
(d)Commercial Banking(in millions,except ratios)
200720062005
200720062005
200720062005
200720062005
Noninterest revenue$14,094
$18,334$13,507
$6,803
$4,660$4,625
$3,046
$2,944$3,563
$1,263
$1,073$986
Netinterest income4,076
4991,603
10,67610,16510,205
12,18911,80111,803
2,8402,7272,502
Total net revenue18,170
18,83315,110
17,47914,82514,830
15,23514,74515,366
4,1033,8003,488
Provision for credit losses654191(838)
2,610561724
5,7114,5987,346
27916073
Credit reimbursement(to)/from TSS(b)121121154
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠNoninterest expense(c)13,07412,86010,246
9,9008,9278,585
4,9145,0864,999
1,9581,9791,856
Income (loss) from
continuing operations

before income tax expense
4,5635,9035,856
4,9695,3375,521
4,6105,0613,021
1,8661,6611,559
Income tax expense(benefit)
1,4242,2292,183
1,9342,1242,094
1,6911,8551,114
732651608
Income (loss) from
continuing operations3,139
3,6743,673
3,0353,2133,427
2,9193,2061,907
1,1341,010951
Income from discontinued operations 
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠNet income (loss)$3,139
$3,674$3,673
$3,035
$3,213$3,427
$2,919
$3,206$1,907
$1,134
$1,010$951
Average equity
$21,000
$20,753$20,000
$16,000
$14,629$13,383
$14,100
$14,100$11,800
$6,502
$5,702$3,400
Average assets
700,565647,569599,761
217,564231,566226,368
155,957148,153141,933
87,14057,75452,358
Return on average equity
15%18%18%
19%22%26%
21%23%16%
17%18%28%
Overhead ratio
726868
576058
323433
485253
(a)In addition to analyzing the Firm™s results on a reported basis,management reviews the Firm™s lines™ of business results on 
a ﬁmanaged basis,ﬂwhich is a non-GAAP financial measure.The Firm™s defi-
nition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S.GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that do not have any i
mpact on Net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firmas a whole.
(b)TSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures the IB manages on behalf of clients the segments share.

(c)Includes Merger costs which are reported in the Corporate segment.Merger costs attributed to the business segments for 2007,
2006 and 2005 were as follows.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Investment Bank
$(2)
$2$32
Retail Financial Services1424133
Card Services(1)29222
Commercial Banking
(1)13Treasury & Securities Services
12111795
Asset Management202360
Corporate
58109177
(d)Managed results for CS exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on Total net revenue,Provision for credit losses an
d Average assets,as JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they
were still on the balance sheet in evaluating credit performance and the overall performance of CS™ entire managed credit card 
portfolio as operations are funded,and decisions are made about allo-
cating resources such as employees and capital,based upon managed information.These adjustments are eliminated in Reconciling i
tems to arrive at the Firm™s reported U.S.GAAP results.The related
securitization adjustments were as follows.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Noninterest revenue$(3,255)
$(3,509)$(2,718)
Net interest income5,6355,7196,494
Provision for credit losses2,3802,2103,776
Average assets
66,78065,26667,180
Segment results
The following table provides a summary of the Firm™s segment results

for 2007,2006 and 2005 on a managed basis.The impact of credit

card securitizations and tax-equivalent adjustments have been
included in Reconciling items so that the total Firm results are on a
reported basis.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
177(table continued from previous page)Treasury &AssetReconciling
Securities ServicesManagementCorporateitems
(d)(e)Total
200720062005
200720062005
200720062005
200720062005
200720062005
$4,681
$4,039$3,659
$7,475
$5,816$4,583
$5,032
$1,058$1,623
$2,572
$2,833$2,147
$44,966
$40,757$34,693
2,2642,0701,880
1,1609711,081
(787)(1,044)(2,756)
(6,012)(5,947)(6,763)
26,40621,24219,555
6,9456,1095,539
8,6356,7875,664
4,24514(1,133)
(3,440)(3,114)(4,616)
71,37261,99954,248
19(1)Š
(18)(28)(56)
(11)(1)10
(2,380)(2,210)(3,776)
6,8643,2703,483
(121)(121)(154)
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ4,5804,2664,050
5,5154,5783,860
1,7621,1475,330
ŠŠŠ41,70338,84338,926
2,2251,7231,335
3,1382,2371,860
2,494(1,132)(6,473)
(1,060)(904)(840)
22,80519,88611,839
828633472
1,172828644
719(1,179)(2,690)
(1,060)(904)(840)
7,4406,2373,585
1,3971,090863
1,9661,4091,216
1,77547(3,783)
ŠŠŠ15,36513,6498,254
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ795229
ŠŠŠŠ795229
$1,397
$1,090$863
$1,966
$1,409$1,216
$1,775
$842$(3,554)
$Š$Š$Š
$15,365
$14,444$8,483
$3,000
$2,285$1,525
$3,876
$3,500$2,400
$54,245
$49,728$52,999
$Š$Š$Š
$118,723
$110,697$105,507
53,35031,76028,206
51,88243,63541,599
255,366218,623162,021
(66,780)(65,266)(67,180)
1,455,0441,313,7941,185,06647%48%57%
51%40%51%
NMNMNM
NMNMNM
13%13%8%
667073
646768
NMNMNM
NMNMNM
586372
(e)Segment managed results reflect revenue on a tax-equivalent basis with the corresponding income tax impact recorded within I
ncome tax expense.These adjustments are eliminated in Reconciling items
to arrive at the Firm™s reported U.S.GAAP results.Tax-equivalent adjustments were as follows for the years ended December 31,20
07,2006 and 2005.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Noninterest income$683
$676$571
Net interest income377228269
Income tax expense1,060904840
Global Reports LLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
178JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Note 35 Œ Parent company
Parent company Œ statements of income
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
IncomeDividends from bank and bankholding company subsidiaries
$5,834
$2,935$2,361
Dividends from nonbank subsidiaries(a)2,4631,999791
Interest income from subsidiaries5,0823,6122,369
Other interest income263273209
Other income from subsidiaries,primarily fees:
Bank and bank holding company182220246
Nonbank 960739462
Other income (loss)(131)(206)13
Total income14,653
9,5726,451
ExpenseInterest expense to subsidiaries(a)1,2391,025846
Other interest expense6,4274,5363,076
Compensation expense125519369
Other noninterest expense998295496
Total expense8,789
6,3754,787
Income before income tax benefit and 
undistributed net income of subsidiaries5,8643,1971,664
Income tax benefit828982852
Equity in undistributed net income of subsidiaries8,67310,2655,967
Net income$15,365
$14,444$8,483
Parent company Œ balance sheets
December 31,(in millions)
20072006AssetsCash and due from banks,primarily with  
bank subsidiaries$110
$756
Deposits with banking subsidiaries
52,97218,759Trading assets
9,5637,975Available-for-sale securities 
43257Loans1,423971Advances to,and receivables from,subsidiaries:
Bank and bank holding company28,70522,765Nonbank52,89534,282Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries:Bank and bank holding company128,711119,017Nonbank(a)25,71022,552Goodwill and other intangibles850853Other assets13,24111,983Total assets$314,223
$240,170
Liabilities and stockholders™ equity
Borrowings from,and payables to,
subsidiaries(a)$23,938
$19,183
Other borrowed funds,primarily commercial 
paper52,44021,011Other liabilities8,0437,605Long-term debt(b)106,58176,581Total liabilities191,002
124,380Stockholders™ equity123,221
115,790Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity$314,223
$240,170
Parent company Œ statements of cash flows
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200720062005
Operating activities
Net income$15,365$14,444$8,483
Less:Net income of subsidiaries
16,97015,1999,119
Parent company net loss(1,605)
(755)(636)
Add:Cash dividends from subsidiaries
(a)8,0614,9342,891
Other,net
3,496(185)(130)
Net cash provided by operating 
activities9,9523,9942,125
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banking subsidiaries(
34,213)(9,307)1,251
Securities purchased under resale agreements,primarily with nonbank

subsidiariesŠ24(24)
Loans(452)(633)(176)
Advances to subsidiaries
(24,553)(3,032)(483)
Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries(
3,705)579(2,949)
Other,net
Š(1)34
Available-for-sale securities:
Purchases(104)Š(215)
Proceeds from sales and maturities 31829124
Net cash used in investing activities(62,709)
(12,341)(2,438)
Financing activitiesNet change in borrowings from subsidiaries(a)4,7552,6722,316
Net change in other borrowed funds31,4295,336625
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt38,98618,15315,992
Repayments of long-term debt(11,662)(10,557)(10,864)
Net proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
1,4671,659682
Excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation 365302Š
Redemption of preferred stock Š(139)(200)
Treasury stock purchased
(8,178)(3,938)(3,412)
Cash dividends paid(
5,051)(4,846)(4,878)
Net cash provided by financing 
activities52,111
8,642261
Net increase (decrease) in cash and due 
from banks(646)295(52)
Cash and due from banks
at the beginning of the year,primarily
with bank subsidiaries756461513
Cash and due from banks at the end 
oftheyear,primarily with bank 
subsidiaries$110
$756$461
Cash interest paid$7,470
$5,485$3,838
Cash income taxes paid
$5,074
$3,599$3,426
(a)Subsidiaries include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (ﬁissuer
trustsﬂ).As a result of FIN 46R,the Parent deconsolidated these trusts in 2003.The

Parent received dividends of $18 million,$23 million and $21 million from the issuer

trusts in 2007,2006 and 2005,respectively.For further discussion on these issuer

trusts,see Note 21 on page 160 of this Annual Report.
(b)At December 31,2007,debt that contractually matures in 2008 through 2012 totaled
$17.8 billion,$17.5 billion,$13.3 billion,$9.5 billion and $12.8 billion,respectively.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
179Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)(in millions,except per share,ratio and headcount data)
20072006As of or for the period ended 4th3rd2nd1st4th3rd2nd1st
Selected income statement dataNoninterest revenue(a)(b)$10,161$
9,199$12,740$12,866
$10,501$10,166$9,908$10,182
Net interest income(b)7,2236,9136,1686,102
5,6925,3795,1784,993
Total net revenue
17,38416,11218,90818,968
16,19315,54515,08615,175
Provision for credit losses2,5421,7851,5291,008
1,134812493831
Total noninterest expense
10,7209,32711,02810,628
9,8859,7969,3829,780
Income from continuing operations before income tax expense 
4,1225,0006,3517,332
5,1744,9375,2114,564
Income tax expense 1,1511,6272,1172,545
1,2681,7051,7271,537
Income from continuing operations (after-tax)
2,9713,3734,2344,787
3,9063,2323,4843,027
Income from discontinued operations (after-tax)
(c)ŠŠŠŠ
620655654
Net income $2,971$
3,373$4,234$4,787
$4,526$3,297$3,540$3,081
Per common share
Basic earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
$0.88$
1.00$1.24$1.38
$1.13$0.93$1.00$0.87
Net income0.881.001.241.38
1.310.95 1.020.89
Diluted earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
$0.86$
0.97$1.20$1.34
$1.09$0.90 $0.98$0.85
Net income0.860.971.201.34
1.260.92 0.990.86
Cash dividends declared per share0.380.380.380.34
0.340.34 0.340.34
Book value per share
36.5935.7235.0834.45
33.4532.75 31.8931.19
Common shares outstanding

Average:Basic
3,367#3,376#3,415#3,456#
3,465#3,469# 3,474#3,473#
Diluted 3,4723,4783,5223,560
3,5793,574 3,5723,571
Common shares at period end3,3673,3593,3993,416
3,4623,468 3,4713,473
Share price
(d)High$48.02$
50.48$53.25$51.95
$49.00$
47.49$46.80$42.43
Low40.1542.1647.7045.91
45.5140.4039.3337.88
Close43.6545.8248.4548.38
48.3046.9642.0041.64
Market capitalization
146,986153,901164,659165,280
167,199162,835145,764144,614
Financial ratios

Return on common equity:Income from continuing operations
10%11%14%17%
14%11%13%11%
Net income10111417
16121312
Return on assets:Income from continuing operations
0.770.911.191.41
1.140.981.050.98
Net income0.770.911.191.41
1.321.00 1.061.00
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.48.48.48.5
8.78.6 8.58.5
Total capital ratio
12.612.512.011.8
12.312.1 12.012.1
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.06.06.26.2
6.26.3 5.86.1
Overhead ratio
62585856
6163 6264
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)
Total assets
$1,562,147$
1,479,575$1,458,042$1,408,918
$1,351,520$1,338,029$1,328,001$1,273,282
Securities85,45097,70695,98497,029
91,97586,54878,02267,126
Loans519,374486,320465,037449,765
483,127463,544455,104432,081
Deposits740,728678,091651,370626,428
638,788582,115593,716584,465
Long-term debt183,862173,696159,493143,274
133,421126,619125,280112,133
Total stockholders™ equity
123,221119,978119,211117,704
115,790113,561110,684108,337
Headcount180,667#
179,847#179,664#176,314#
174,360#171,589#172,423#170,787#
Credit quality metrics

Allowance for credit losses
$10,084$
8,971$8,399$7,853
$7,803$
7,524$7,500$7,659
Nonperforming assets(e)4,2373,1812,5862,421
2,3412,3002,3842,348
Allowance for loan losses to total loans
(f)1.88%1.76%1.71%1.74%
1.70%1.65%1.69%1.83%
Net charge-offs$1,429$
1,221$985$903
$930$790$654$668
Net charge-off rate
(f)1.19%1.07%0.90%0.85%
0.84%0.74%0.64%0.69%
Wholesale net charge-off (recovery) rate
(f)0.050.19(0.07)(0.02)
0.07(0.03)(0.05)(0.06)
Managed Card net charge-off rate
3.893.643.623.57
3.453.583.282.99
(a)The Firm adopted SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2007.See Note 4 on pages 111Œ118 of this Annual Report for additional info
rmation.(b)For certain trading-related positions,amounts have been revised between Noninterest revenue and Net interest income;there is
 no impact to Net revenue as a result of these revisions.
(c)On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase & Co.completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses for the consumer,busines
s banking and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York
Company Inc.The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses are reported as discontinued operations for each 2006
 period.
(d)JPMorgan Chase™s common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of JPMorgan Chase™s
common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
(e)Excludes purchased wholesale loans held-for-sale.

(f)End-of-period and average Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating the allowance coverage 
ratios and net charge-off rates,respectively.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Global Reports LLC
180JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Selected annual financial data (unaudited)Heritage JPMorgan(in millions,except per share,headcount and ratio data)
Chase onlyAs of or for the year ended December 31,2007200620052004
(f)2003Selected income statement dataNoninterest revenue(a)$44,966
$40,757$34,693$26,209$20,384
Net interest income26,40621,24219,55516,52712,807
Total net revenue
71,37261,99954,24842,73633,191
Provision for credit losses6,8643,2703,4832,5441,540
Total noninterest expense
41,70338,84338,92634,33621,878
Income from continuing operations before income tax expense
22,80519,88611,8395,8569,773
Income tax expense7,4406,2373,5851,5963,209
Income from continuing operations 
15,36513,6498,2544,2606,564
Income from discontinued operations
(b)Š795229206155
Net income $15,365
$14,444$8,483$4,466$6,719
Per common share
Basic earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
$4.51
$3.93$2.36$1.51$3.24
Net income4.514.162.431.593.32
Diluted earnings per share
Income from continuing operations
$4.38
$3.82$2.32$1.48$3.17
Net income4.384.042.381.553.24
Cash dividends declared per share1.481.361.361.361.36
Book value per share
36.5933.4530.7129.6122.10
Common shares outstanding
Average:Basic 
3,404#3,470#3,492#2,780#2,009#
Diluted 3,5083,5743,5572,8512,055
Common shares at period-end3,3673,4623,4873,5562,043
Share price
(c)High $53.25
$49.00$40.56$43.84$38.26
Low40.1537.8832.9234.6220.13
Close43.6548.3039.6939.0136.73
Market capitalization
146,986167,199138,387138,72775,025
Financial ratios
Return on common equity:Income from continuing operations
13%12%8%6%15%
Net income13138616
Return on assets:Income from continuing operations
1.061.040.700.440.85
Net income1.061.100.720.460.87
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.48.78.58.78.5
Total capital ratio
12.612.312.012.211.8
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.06.26.36.25.6
Overhead ratio
5863728066
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)Total assets
$1,562,147
$1,351,520$1,198,942$1,157,248$770,912
Securities85,45091,97547,60094,51260,244
Loans519,374483,127419,148402,114214,766
Deposits740,728638,788554,991521,456326,492
Long-term debt183,862133,421108,35795,42248,014
Common stockholders™ equity123,221115,790107,072105,31445,145
Total stockholders™ equity
123,221115,790107,211105,65346,154
Headcount180,667#174,360#168,847#160,968#96,367#
Credit quality metrics
Allowance for credit losses
$10,084
$7,803$7,490$7,812$4,847
Nonperforming assets(d)4,2372,3412,5903,2313,161
Allowance for loan losses to total loans
(e)1.88%1.70%1.84%1.94%2.33%
Net charge-offs$4,538
$3,042$3,819$3,099$2,272
Net charge-off rate
(e)1.00%0.73%1.00%1.08%1.19%
Wholesale net charge-off (recovery) rate
(e)0.04(0.01)(0.06)0.180.97
Managed Card net charge-off rate
3.683.335.215.275.90
(a)The Firm adopted SFAS 157 in the first quarter of 2007.See Note 4 on pages 111Œ118 of this Annual Report for additional info
rmation.(b)On October 1,2006,JPMorgan Chase & Co.completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses for the consumer,busines
s banking and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank of New York
Company Inc.The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses are reported as discontinued operations for each peri
od prior to 2007.(c)JPMorgan Chase™s common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of JPMorgan Chase™s
common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
(d)Excludes purchased wholesale loans held-for-sale.

(e)End-of-period and average Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating the allowance coverage 
ratios and net charge-off rates,respectively.
(f)On July 1,2004,Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase.Accordingly,2004 results include six months of the c
ombined Firm™s results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
181ACH:
Automated Clearing House.
AICPA:
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
AICPA Statement of Position (ﬁSOPﬂ) 07-1:
ﬁClarification of theScope of the Audit and Accounting Guide Investment Companies and

Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for

Investments in Investment Companies.ﬂ
AICPAStatement of Position (ﬁSOPﬂ) 98-1:
ﬁAccounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.ﬂ
APB 25:Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.25.ﬁAccounting for
Stock Issued to Employees.ﬂ
Advised lines of credit:
An authorization which specifies the maxi-mum amount of a credit facility the Firm has made available to an oblig-
or on a revolving but non-binding basis.The borrower receives written

or oral advice of this facility.The Firm may cancel this facility at any time.
Assets under management:Represent assets actively managed byAsset Management on behalf of institutional,private banking,private

client services and retail clients.Excludes assets managed by American

Century Companies,Inc.,in which the Firm has a 44% ownership

interest as of December 31,2007
Assets under supervision:Represent assets under management aswell as custody,brokerage,administration and deposit accounts.
Average managed assets:
Refers to total assets on the Firm™s
Consolidated balance sheets plus credit card receivables that have

been securitized.Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs:
Represents theinterest of third-party holders of debt/equity securities,or other obliga-

tions,issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates under FIN 46R.

The underlying obligations of the VIEs consist of short-term borrowings,

commercial paper and long-term debt.The related assets consist of trad-

ing assets,available-for-sale securities,loans and other assets.
Benefit obligation:Refers to the projected benefit obligation forpension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
for OPEB plans.
Contractual credit card charge-off:
In accordance with the Federal
Financial Institutions Examination Council policy,credit card loans are

charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes
180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the
filing of bankruptcy,whichever is earlier.
Credit card securitizations:
Card Services™ managed resultsexcludes the impact of credit card securitizations on Total net revenue,

the Provision for credit losses,net charge-offs and Loan receivables.

Through securitization,the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card

receivables into securities,which are sold to investors.The credit card

receivables are removed from the Consolidated balance sheets through

the transfer of the receivables to a trust,and the sale of undivided

interests to investors that entitle the investors to specific cash flows
generated from the credit card receivables.The Firm retains the

remaining undivided interests as seller™s interests,which are recorded

in Loans on the Consolidated balance sheets.A gain or loss on the

sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in Other Income.

Securitization also affects the Firm™s Consolidated statements of

income as the aggregate amount of interest income,certain fee rev-

enue and recoveries that is in excess of the aggregate amount of inter-
est paid to the investors,gross credit losses and other trust expense
related to the securitized receivables are reclassified into Credit card

income in the Consolidated statements of income.
Credit derivatives:
Contractual agreements that provide protection
against a credit event on one or more referenced credits.The nature of a

credit event is established by the protection buyer and protection seller at
the inception of a transaction,and such events include bankruptcy,insol-

vency or failure to meet payment obligations when due.The buyer of the

credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a 
payment by the protec-tion seller upon the occurrence,if any,of a credit 
event.Credit cycle:
A period of time over which credit quality improves,dete-
riorates and then improves again.The duration of a credit cycle can vary

from a couple of years to several years.
Discontinued operations:
A component of an entity that is classi-fied as held-for-sale or that has been disposed of from ongoing opera-

tions in its entirety or piecemeal,and for which the entity will not have

any significant,continuing involvement.A discontinued operation may

be a separate major business segment,a component of a major busi-

ness segment or a geographical area of operations of the entity that

can be separately distinguished operationally and for financial report-

ing purposes.
EITF:Emerging Issues Task Force.
EITF Issue 06-11:ﬁAccounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends
on Share-Based Payment Awards.ﬂ
EITF Issue 02-3:ﬁIssues Involved in Accounting for Derivative
Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy

Trading and Risk Management Activities.ﬂ
EITF Issue 99-20:ﬁRecognition of Interest Income and Impairmenton Purchased and Retained Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial
Assets.ﬂ
FASB:
Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FIN 39:FASB Interpretation No.39,ﬁOffsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Contracts Œ an interpretation of APBOpinion No.10 and FASB

Statement No.105.ﬂ
FIN 41:FASB Interpretation No.41,ﬁOffsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements Œ an inter-

pretation of APBOpinion No.10 and a Modification of FASB

Interpretation No.39.ﬂ
FIN 45:FASB Interpretation No.45,ﬁGuarantor™s Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees,including Indirect Guarantees

of Indebtedness of Others Œ an interpretation of FASB Statements No.

5,57 and 107 and a rescission of FASB Interpretation No.34.ﬂ
FIN 46R:FASB Interpretation No.46 (revised December 2003),
ﬁConsolidation of Variable Interest Entities Œ an interpretation of ARB

No.51.ﬂ
FIN 47:FASB Interpretation No.47,ﬁAccounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations Œ an interpretation of FASB Statement No.143.ﬂ
FIN 48:FASB Interpretation No.48,ﬁAccounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes Œ an interpretation of FASB Statement No.109.ﬂ
Forward points:
Represents the interest rate differential between two
currencies,which is either added to or subtracted from the current

exchange rate (i.e.,ﬁspot rateﬂ) to determine the forward exchange rate.
FSP:FASB Staff Position.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Global Reports LLC
182JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
FSP FAS 123(R)-3:
ﬁTransition Election Related to Accounting for the
Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards.ﬂ
FSP FAS 13-2:
ﬁAccounting for a Change or Projected Change in the
Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a

Leveraged Lease Transaction.ﬂ
FSP FIN 39-1:ﬁAmendment of FASB Interpretation No.39.ﬂ
FSP FIN 46(R)-7:
ﬁApplication of FASB Interpretation No.46(R) to
Investment Companies.ﬂ
Interchange income:
A fee that is paid to a credit card issuer in theclearing and settlement of a sales or cash advance transaction.
Interests in purchased receivables:
Represent an ownership inter-est in cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables transferred by a

third-party seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity,generally a trust.
Investment-grade:
An indication of credit quality based uponJPMorgan Chase™s internal risk assessment system.ﬁInvestment-

gradeﬂgenerally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a 

ﬁBBB-ﬂ/ﬂBaa3ﬂor better,as defined by independent rating agencies.
Managed basis:A non-GAAP presentation of financial results thatincludes reclassifications related to credit card securitizations and to

present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis.Management uses

this non-GAAP financial measure at the segment level because it

believes this provides information to enable investors to understand the

underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business

segment and facilitates a comparison of the business segment with the

performance of competitors.
Managed credit card receivables:
Refers to credit card receivables
on the Firm™s Consolidated balance sheets plus credit card receivables

that have been securitized.Mark-to-market exposure:
A measure,at a point in time,of the
value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market.

When the mark-to-market value is positive,it indicates the counterpar-

ty owes JPMorgan Chase and,therefore,creates a repayment risk for

the Firm.When the mark-to-market value is negative,JPMorgan Chase

owes the counterparty;in this situation,the Firm does not have repay-

ment risk.
Master netting agreement:
An agreement between two counter-parties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that

provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single pay-

ment,in a single currency,in the event of default on or termination of

any one contract.See FIN 39.
MSR risk management revenue:
Includes changes in MSR assetfair value due to inputs or assumptions in model and derivative valua-

tion adjustments.
Material legal proceedings:
Refers to certain specific litigationoriginally discussed in the section ﬁLegal Proceedingsﬂin the Firm™s

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,2002.

Of such legal proceedings,some lawsuits related to Enron and the IPO

allocation allegations remain outstanding as of the date of this Annual

Report,as discussed in Part I,Item 3,Legal proceedings in the Firm™s

Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,2007,

to which reference is hereby made;other such legal proceedings have

been resolved.Merger:
On July 1,2004,Bank One Corporation merged with and
into JPMorgan Chase.
NA:Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
The average rate for inter-
est-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
NM:Not meaningful.OPEB:Other postretirement employee benefits.
Overhead ratio:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of Total net
revenue.
Portfolio activity:
Describes changes to the risk profile of existinglending-related exposures and their impact on the allowance for credit

losses from changes in customer profiles and inputs used to estimate
the allowances.
Principal transactions (revenue):
Realized and unrealized gainsand losses from trading activities (including physical commodities

inventories that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value)

and changes in fair value associated with financial instruments held by

the Investment Bank for which the SFAS 159 fair value option 
was
elected.Principal transactions revenue also include private equity 
gainsand losses.
REMIC:Investment vehicles that hold commercial and residentialmortgages in trust,and issues securities representing an undivided

interest in these mortgages.A REMIC,which can be a corporation,

trust,association,or partnership,assembles mortgages into pools and

issues pass-through certificates,multiclass bonds similar to a collateral-

ized mortgage obligation (CMO),or other securities to investors in the

secondary mortgage market.
Reported basis:Financial statements prepared under accountingprinciples generally accepted in the United States of America (ﬁU.S.

GAAPﬂ).The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securiti-

zations,but excludes the impact of taxable-equivalent adjustments.
Return on common equity less goodwill:Represents net incomeapplicable to common stock divided by total average common equity

(net of goodwill).The Firm uses return on common equity less good-

will,a non-GAAP financial measure,to evaluate the operating perform-

ance of the Firm.The Firm also utilizes this measure to facilitate oper-

ating comparisons to other competitors.
SAB:Staff Accounting Bulletin
SAB 109:ﬁWritten Loan Commitments Recorded at Fair Value
Through Earnings.ﬂ
SFAS:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS 5:
ﬁAccounting for Contingencies.ﬂ
SFAS 13:
ﬁAccounting for Leases.ﬂ
SFAS 52:
ﬁForeign Currency Translation.ﬂ
SFAS 87:
ﬁEmployers™ Accounting for Pensions.ﬂ
SFAS 88:
ﬁEmployers™ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of
Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits.ﬂ
SFAS 106:
ﬁEmployers™ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other
Than Pensions.ﬂ
SFAS 107:
ﬁDisclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments.ﬂ
SFAS 109:
ﬁAccounting for Income Taxes.ﬂ
SFAS 114:
ﬁAccounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan Œ an
amendment of FASB Statements No.5 and 15.ﬂ
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
183SFAS 115:
ﬁAccounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities.ﬂ
SFAS 123:
ﬁAccounting for Stock-Based Compensation.ﬂ
SFAS 123R:
ﬁShare-Based Payment.ﬂ
SFAS 128:
ﬁEarnings per Share.ﬂ
SFAS 133:
ﬁAccounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities.ﬂ
SFAS 138:
ﬁAccounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain
Hedging Activities Œ an amendment of FASB Statement No.133.ﬂ
SFAS 140:
ﬁAccounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
and Extinguishments of Liabilities Œ a replacement of FASB Statement

No.125.ﬂ
SFAS 141R:
ﬁBusiness CombinationsﬂSFAS 142:
ﬁGoodwill and Other Intangible Assets.ﬂ
SFAS 143:
ﬁAccounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.ﬂ
SFAS 149:
ﬁAmendment of Statement No.133 on Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities.ﬂ
SFAS 155:
ﬁAccounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments Œ an
amendment of FASB Statements No.133 and 140.ﬂ
SFAS 156:
ﬁAccounting for Servicing of Financial Assets Œ an amend-
ment of FASB Statement No.140.ﬂ
SFAS 157:
ﬁFair Value Measurements.ﬂ
SFAS 158:
ﬁEmployers™ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans Œ an amendment of FASB Statements No.

87,88,106,and 132(R).ﬂ
SFAS 159:
ﬁThe Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities Œ Including an amendment of FASB Statement No.115.ﬂ
SFAS 160:
ﬁNoncontrolling Interests in Consolidated FinancialStatements Œ an amendment of ARB No.51.ﬂ
Stress testing:
A scenario that measures market risk under unlikely
but plausible events in abnormal markets.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Subprime loans:Although a standard definition for Subprime loans(including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist,the Firm defines

subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers,

including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk fac-
tors,such as low FICO scores (generally less than 620 for secured

products and 660 for unsecured products) and high debt to income
ratios.The Firm also evaluates the types and severity of historical

delinquencies in evaluating whether a subprime product is appropriate

for a particular customer.Higher interest rates and additional fees are

typically assessed for subprime loans to compensate for the increased
credit risk associated with these types of products.
Transactor loan:
Loan in which the outstanding balance is paid infull by payment due date.
Unaudited:Financial statements and information that have not beensubjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an independent
certified public accountant to express an opinion.U.S.GAAP:
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.
U.S.government and federal agency obligations:
Obligations ofthe U.S.government or an instrumentality of the U.S.government

whose obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely

payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S.

government.U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations:
Obligationsof agencies originally established or chartered by the U.S.government

to serve public purposes as specified by the U.S.Congress;these obli-

gations are not explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of prin-

cipal and interest by the full faith and credit of the U.S.government.
Value-at-risk (ﬁVARﬂ):
A measure of the dollar amount of potentialloss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Global Reports LLC
Ç184JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
JPMORGAN CHASE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL
Hon. George P. Shultz
Chairman of the CouncilDistinguished FellowHoover Institution 
Stanford University
Stanford, California
Riley P. Bechtel
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Bechtel Group, Inc.

San Francisco, California
Jean-Louis Beffa
Chairman 
Compagnie de Saint-Gobain
Paris-La Défense, FranceTony Blair
Former U.K. Prime Minister
London, United KingdomThe Hon. Bill BradleyFormer U.S. Senator
Allen & Company, LLC 

New York, New York
Michael A. ChaneyChairman
National Australia Bank Limited
Perth, Western Australia
André DesmaraisPresident and 

Co-Chief Executive Officer

Power Corporation of Canada
Montreal, Canada
Martin FeldsteinPresident and Chief Executive Officer

National Bureau of 

Economic Research, Inc.

Cambridge, MassachusettsArminio Fraga NetoFounding Partner
Gavea Investimentos, Ltd.
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Xi-Qing GaoChief Executive Officer

China Investment Corporation
Beijing, The People™s Republic 

of ChinaJürgen Grossmann
President and Chief Executive Officer

RWE AG

Essen, GermanyWilliam B. Harrison, Jr.
Former Chairman
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Carla A. HillsChairman and Chief Executive Officer

Hills & Company
Washington, D.C.
Franz B. HumerChairman of the Board of Directors

Roche Holding Ltd. 
Basel, SwitzerlandAbdallah S. Jum™ahPresident and Chief Executive Officer

Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Dhahran, Saudi ArabiaHon. Henry A. KissingerChairman
Kissinger Associates, Inc.
New York, New York
Mustafa V. Koç
Chairman of the Board of Directors

Koç Holding A.S.
Istanbul, Turkey
The Hon. Lee Kuan Yew
Minister Mentor
Republic of Singapore

Singapore 
Minoru MakiharaSenior Corporate Advisor and 
Former Chairman
Mitsubishi Corporation
Tokyo, Japan
David J. O™ReillyChairman and Chief Executive Officer

Chevron Corporation

San Ramon, California
Michael Pram RasmussenChairman of the Board

A.P. Møller-Maersk Group

Copenhagen, DenmarkSir John Rose
Chief Executive
Rolls-Royce plc
London, United KingdomTokyo Sexwale
Executive Chairman
Mvelaphanda Holdings Ltd
Johannesburg, South AfricaRatan Naval Tata
Chairman
Tata Sons Limited

Mumbai, IndiaMarco Tronchetti Provera
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

Pirelli & C. SpA

Milan, ItalyCees J.A. van LedeFormer Chairman, 
Board of Management

Akzo Nobel
Arnhem, The Netherlands
Douglas A. Warner III
Former Chairman of the Board

J.P.Morgan Chase & Co.

New York, New York 
Ernesto Zedillo
Director

Yale Center for the Study 

of Globalization
New Haven, ConnecticutJaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala
President

Ayala Corporation

Makati City, Philippines
Ex-Officio Members
James Dimon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Andrew D. Crockett 
President 

JPMorgan Chase International

New York, New York
William M. DaleyVice Chairman

Chairman of the Midwest Region
Corporate Responsibility Office

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chicago, IllinoisWalter A. Gubert
Vice Chairman 

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chairman 
JPMorgan Chase EMEA
London, United KingdomGlobal Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
185NATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD
Richard I. Beattie
ChairmanSimpson Thacher & Bartlett LLPLeon D. BlackFounding Partner
Apollo Management, L.P.
David BondermanFounding Partner
Texas Pacific Group
David A. BrandonChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Domino's Pizza, Inc.Richard J. Bressler
Managing Director and Head 

of the Strategic Resources Group

Thomas H. Lee Partners, LPEdgar Bronfman, Jr.
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Warner Music Group
Frank A. D'AmelioChief Financial Officer and 

Senior Vice President

Pfizer Inc. LPDavid F. DeVoe
Chief Financial Officer

News CorporationWilliam T. Dillard II
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Dillard's, Inc.
Paul J. FribourgChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

ContiGroup Companies, Inc.
Donald J. GogelPresident and 

Chief Executive Officer

Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc.John B. HessChairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

Hess CorporationGlenn H. HutchinsFounding Partner
Silver Lake PartnersThomas H. LeePresident

Thomas H. Lee Capital LLCDavid C. McCourtChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Granahan McCourt CapitalDarla D. Moore
Vice President

Rainwater, Inc.
Patrick J. Moore
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Smurfit-Stone Container
CorporationMichael G. MorrisChairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer

American Electric PowerLewis RanieriChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Ranieri & CompanyDavid M. RubensteinManaging Director

The Carlyle Group
Stephen A. SchwarzmanChairman, Chief Executive Officer

and Co-Founder
The Blackstone Group
Henry R. SilvermanChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Realogy CorporationBarry S. Sternlicht
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Starwood Capital Group
Doreen A. Toben
Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer

Verizon Communications
Samuel ZellChairman of the Board

Equity Group Investments, L.L.C.
Mortimer B. ZuckermanChairman
Boston Properties, Inc.
James B. Lee, Jr. 
Chairman 
National Advisory Board 
Philip C. AckermanChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

National Fuel Gas CompanyRichard A. Bernstein
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

R.A.B. Holdings, Inc.Rod BraymanPresident

Windmill Distributing Company L.P.
Robert B. CatellChairman
National GridChristopher B. CombeChairman and President

Combe IncorporatedEugene R. CorasantiChairman of the Board

CONMED CorporationEmil DudaSenior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Lifetime Healthcare Company/

Excellus Health Plan Inc.Roger N. FarahPresident and Chief Operating

Officer

Polo Ralph Lauren
James Fernandez
Executive Vice President and CFO

Tiffany & Company
Neil GolubPresident and CEO

The Golub CorporationTod Johnson
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

The NPD Group, Inc.
Peter J. KalletVice Chairman

Oneida Ltd.Richard W. Kunes
Executive Vice President, 

Chief Financial Officer

The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.Richard S. LeFrak
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

LeFrak OrganizationRichard B. Leventhal
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Fedway Associates, Inc.John LiDestriChief Executive Officer

LiDestri Foods, Inc.Leo LiebowitzChief Executive Officer

Getty Realty Corp.William L. MackFounder and Senior Partner
Apollo Real Estate Advisors L.P.
Peter MarksonChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Paris Accessories, Inc.John MorphySenior Vice President, 

Chief Financial Officer 

and Secretary

Paychex, Inc.Michael C. NahlExecutive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Albany International Corp.
James L. NederlanderPresident

Nederlander Producing Company 

of America, Inc.Samuel I. Newhouse IIIGeneral Manager
Advance Publications Inc.William C. RudinPresident

Rudin Management Company, Inc.
C. David SammonsPresident and CEO

Subaru Distributors Corp.John ShalamChairman
Audiovox CorporationScott A. SilversteinPresident and COO

The Topps Company, Inc.
Marie Toulantis
Chief Executive Officer

Barnes & Noble.com
Kenneth L. Wallach
Chairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Central National-Gottesman Inc.Fred Wilpon
Chairman
Sterling Equities, Inc.Frank Lourenso 
Chairman 
Regional Advisory Board
REGIONAL ADVISORY BOARD
Global Reports LLC
COMMUNITY ADVISORY BOARD
Lauren Anderson
Executive Director
Neighborhood Housing 
Services of New Orleans
New Orleans, LAPolly BacaCEO/Executive Director

Latin American Research and

Service Agency
Denver, CO
Dionne BagsbyRetired Commissioner

Tarrant County

Fort Worth, TX
Salvador BalcortaChief Executive Director

Centro de Salud Familiar La Fe, Inc.

El Pasco, TXFrank Ballesteros
Chief Administrative Officer

PPEP Microbusiness & Housing

Development Corp.
Tucson, AZ
Eli BarbosaDirector of Neighborhood

Reinvestment
Latin United Community Housing
Association
Chicago, ILRev. Henry Barlow
Christ Tabernacle Baptist Church

Chicago, ILJanie Barrera
President/CEO

ACCION Texas

San Antonio, TXShaun BellePresident/CEO

The Mt. Hope Housing Company
Bronx, NY
Pascual BlancoExecutive Director

La Fuerza Unida de Glen Cove
Glen Cove, NYDonnie Brown
Executive Director

Genesis Housing Development Corp.
Chicago, ILJames BuckleyExecutive Director

University Neighborhood Housing
Program

Bronx, NY
Joseph CarbonePresident/CEO

The WorkPlace, Inc.

Bridgeport, CTDavid ChenExecutive Director

Chinese American Planning Council
New York, NY
William ClarkPresident/CEO

Urban League of Rochester
Rochester, NY
Ricardo Diaz
Executive Director

United Community Center
Milwaukee, WIPeter ElkowitzPresident

Long Island Housing Partnership
Hauppauge, NYIgnacio EstebanExecutive Director

Florida Community Loan Fund
Orlando, FLRon Fafoglia Executive Director

TSP Hope, Inc
Springfield, ILMelissa Flournoy
President/CEO

The Louisiana Association of
Nonprofit Organizations

Baton Rouge, LAWilliam Frey
Vice President/Director

Enterprise Foundation NYC Office

New York, NY
Reuben GantExecutive Director

Greenwood Community

Development Corp.
Tulsa, OK
Reginald GatesPresident/CEO

Dallas Black Chamber of Commerce

Dallas, TXSarah Gerecke
Chief Executive Officer

Neighborhood Housing 
Services of NYC
New York, NY
Ernest Gonzalez
Corporate Committee Chair
Long Island Hispanic Chamber 
of Commerce

West Islip, NY
Bruce GottschallExecutive Director

Neighborhood Housing 
Services of Chicago, Inc.
Chicago, ILColvin GrannumPresident/CEO

Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration

Corp.
Brooklyn, NY
Meg HallerChief Executive Officer

NW Indiana Quality of Life Council
Valparaiso, IN
Roy HastickPresident/CEO

Caribbean American Chamber 
of Commerce & Industry

Brooklyn, NY
Norman HenryExecutive Director

Builders of Hope Community
Development Corp.
Dallas, TXRalph Hollmon President/CEO 

Milwaukee Urban League, Inc.
Milwaukee, WIKevin Jackson Executive Director 

Chicago Rehab Network 
Chicago, ILKim Jacobs Executive Director 

Community Capital Resources 

Hawthorne, NY
Rev. Manson Johnson
Holman Street Baptist Church

Houston, TXErma Johnson-Hadley Vice Chancellor for Administrative

and Community Services
Tarrant County College District 

Fort Worth, TX
Amy Klaben President/CEO 

Columbus Housing Partnership, Inc.
Columbus, OHJames Klein Executive Director 

Ohio Community Development
Finance Fund 
Columbus, OHChristopher Kui Executive Director 

Asian Americans for Equality 
New York, NY
Rhonda Lewis  President/CEO 

Bridge Street Development Corp.

Brooklyn, NY
Msgr. William Linder 
Founder 
New Community Corporation 
Newark, NJRev. Fred Lucas 
President/CEO 

Faith Center for Community
Development 
New York, NY
Norm Lyons 
Community Development Corp.
Chair 
One Hundred Black Men 

of Greater Dallas 

Arlington, TXRichard Manson 
Vice President 

Local Initiatives Support Corporation
New York, NY
Maria Matos Executive Director 

Latin American Community Center
Wilmington, DE
Christie McCravy Director of Homeownership

Programs

The Housing Partnership, Inc.
Louisville, KYLuis Miranda Chairman 
Audubon Partnership for Economic
Development 
New York, NY
Marlon Mitchell Executive Director 

Houston Business Development, Inc.
Houston, TXAndrew J. Mooney 
Senior Program Director 

Local Initiatives Support Corporation
Chicago, IL186JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Global Reports LLC
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
187Randy Moore 
Executive Director 
Community Works in 

West Virginia, Inc. 

Charleston, WVVincent Murray 
Executive Director 

Bagley Housing Association, Inc. 
Detroit, MI
Joe Myer Executive Director 

NCALL Research 

Dover, DE
Jeremy Nowak 
President/CEO 

The Reinvestment Fund 
Philadelphia, PA
Claudia O'Grady Executive Director 

Multi-Ethnic Development Corp. 
Salt Lake City, UT
David Pagan Executive Director 

Southside United Housing
Development Fund Corp. 
Brooklyn, NY
James Paley Executive Director 

Neighborhood Housing Services 
of New Haven 
New Haven, CTJohn Parvensky President 

Colorado Coalition for 
the Homeless 
Denver, CO
Kerry Quaglia Executive Director 

Home Headquarters, Inc.
Syracuse, NYEdwin Reed Chief Financial Officer 

Greater Allen Cathedral of NY  

Jamaica, NYKathy Ricci Executive Director 

Utah Micro-Enterprise Loan Fund 

Salt Lake City, UT
Gwen Robinson President/CEO 

Hamilton County Community
Action Agency
Cincinnati, OHMarcos Ronquillo
Managing Partner/President

Godwin Pappas Ronquillo LLP
Dallas, TXClifford Rosenthal 
Executive Director 

National Federation of Community
Development Credit Unions 

New York, NY
Winston Ross Executive Director 

Westchester Community

Opportunity Program 

Elmsford, NY
Doris Schnider President 

Delaware Community 

Investment Corp. 
Wilmington, DE
Shirley Stancato President/CEO 

New Detroit, Inc. 

Detroit, MI
Thomas Stone Executive Director 

Mt. Pleasant Development Now 
Cleveland, OHRev. Benjamin Thomas, Sr.  
Tanner AME 

Phoenix, AZValerie Thompson 
President/CEO 

Urban League of Greater 

Oklahoma City 
Oklahoma City, OK
Carlisle Towery 
President 

Greater Jamaica Development

Corp. 
Jamaica, NYMargaret Trahan 
President/CEO 

United Way of Acadiana 

Lafayette, LARev. Terry Troia 
Executive Director 

Project Hospitality 

Staten Island, NYRev. Reginald Tuggle
Memorial Economic Development
Corporation
Roosevelt, NYMark VanBrunt 
Executive Director

Raza Development Fund
Phoenix, AZDonna Wertenbach 
President/CEO 

Community Economic 
Development Fund 
West Hartford, CT
Lloyd Williams President/CEO 

Greater Harlem Chamber of

Commerce 

New York, NY
Ravi Yalamanchi 
Chief Executive Officer 

Metro Housing Partnership 

Flint, MIDiana Yazzie-Devine 
President 

Native American Connections 
Phoenix, AZCOMMUNITY ADVISORY BOARD
(continued)Global Reports LLC
188JPMorgan Chase & Co./2007 Annual Report
Crandall C. Bowles1,4ChairmanSprings Industries, Inc.
(Home furnishing)
Stephen B. Burke2,3President

Comcast Cable 
Communications, Inc.
(Cable television)David M. Cote4,5Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer 

Honeywell International Inc.

(Diversified technology and 
manufacturing)James S. Crown
4,5President

Henry Crown and Company 

(Diversified investments)James Dimon Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

JPMorgan Chase & Co.Ellen V. Futter
4,5President and Trustee

American Museum of 
Natural History 
(Museum)William H. Gray, III
1,4Chairman
Amani Group

(Consulting and advisory)Laban P. Jackson, Jr.
1,4Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Clear Creek Properties, Inc.

(Real estate development)Robert I. Lipp4,5Senior Advisor
JPMorgan Chase & Co.David C. Novak2,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Yum! Brands, Inc.

(Franchised restaurants)
Lee R. Raymond2,3Retired Chairman and 

Chief Executive Officer

Exxon Mobil Corporation 
(Oil and gas)William C. Weldon
2,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer 

Johnson & Johnson
(Health care products)
James Dimon*Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Gaby A.Abdelnour
Asia PacificPaul T. Bateman
Investment ManagementAnthony J. Best
Investment BankFrank J. Bisignano
*Chief Administrative Office
Steven D.Black
*Investment Bank Philip F. Bleser
Commercial Banking
John F. Bradley
*Human Resources
Douglas L. BraunsteinInvestment BankClive S. Brown
Investment ManagementRichard M. Cashin
One Equity PartnersMichael J. Cavanagh
*Finance Guy Chiarello
Technology
Andrew D.Crockett
JPMorgan Chase International
Stephen M. Cutler
*Legal & ComplianceWilliam M. Daley
*Corporate ResponsibilityKimberly B. Davis
Philanthropy
Klaus DiederichsInvestment BankIna R. Drew
*Chief Investment Office
Althea L. DuerstenChief Investment Office
Patrik L. EdsparrInvestment BankMary E. Erdoes
Wealth Management
Joseph M. Evangelisti
Corporate CommunicationsMartha J. Gallo
AuditWalter A.Gubert
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Evelyn E. Guernsey
Investment ManagementCarlos M. Hernandez
Investment BankRick LazioGovernment Affairs & Public Policy
James B. Lee,Jr.
Investment BankDavid B. LowmanHome LendingSamuel Todd Maclin
*Commercial Banking
Achilles O. Macris
Chief Investment Office
Jay Mandelbaum*Strategy & Marketing Blythe S.Masters
Investment BankDonald H.McCree, III
Investment BankHeidi Miller*Treasury & Securities Services 
Melissa J. Moore
Treasury Services
Stephanie B. Mudick
Retail Financial ServicesNicholas P. O'Donohoe
Investment BankDaniel E. Pinto
Investment BankScott E. Powell
Consumer BankingCharles W. Scharf
*Retail Financial ServicesMarc Sheinbaum
Auto & Education FinanceGordon A. Smith
*Card Services
James E. Staley
*Asset ManagementWilliam S. Wallace
Card Services
Kevin P. Watters
Business BankingWilliam T. Winters
*Investment BankBarry L. Zubrow
*Risk ManagementMember of:
1.Audit Committee2.Compensation & Management Development Committee3.Corporate Governance & 
Nominating Committee4.Public Responsibility Committee5.Risk Policy CommitteeBOARDOF DIRECTORSEXECUTIVE COMMITTEE(*denotes member of Operating Committee)
Anthony J. Horan
Secretary
Mark I. Kleinman
Treasurer
Louis RauchenbergerController  
OTHER CORPORATE OFFICERS
Global Reports LLC
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.CCo
or
rp
po
or
ra
at
te
e 
 h
he
ea
ad
dq
qu
ua
ar
rt
te
er
rs
s270 Park Avenue
New York,New York 10017-2070

Telephone:212-270-6000

http://www.jpmorganchase.com
PPr
ri
in
nc
ci
ip
pa
al
l 
 s
su
ub
bs
si
id
di
ia
ar
ri
ie
es
sJPMorgan Chase Bank,National AssociationChase Bank USA,National AssociationJ.P.Morgan Securities Inc.
AAn
nn
nu
ua
al
l 
 r
re
ep
po
or
rt
t 
 o
on
n 
 F
Fo
or
rm
m 
 1
10
0-
-K
KThe Annual Report on Form 10-K of 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.as filed with the

Securities and Exchange Commission 
will be made available without charge 

upon request to:Office of the SecretaryJPMorgan Chase & Co.

277 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10172
SSt
to
oc
ck
k 
 l
li
is
st
ti
in
ng
gNew York Stock Exchange,Inc.
London Stock Exchange Limited
Tokyo Stock Exchange
The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
ticker symbol for the Common Stock 

of JPMorgan Chase & Co.is JPM.
Certifications by the Chairman and ChiefExecutive Officer and Chief Financial Officer

of JPMorgan Chase & Co.pursuant to Section

302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,have

been filed as exhibits to the Firm's 2007

Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The NYSE requires that the Chief Executive
Officer of a listed company certify annually
that he or she was not aware of any violation

by the company of the NYSE's 
CorporateGovernance listing standards.Such 
certificationwas made on June 14,2007.
Financial information about JPMorgan Chase
& Co.can be accessed by visiting the Investor

Relations site of www.jpmorganchase.com.

Additional questions should be addressed to:Investor RelationsJPMorgan Chase & Co.

277 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10172

Telephone:212-270-6000
DDi
ir
re
ec
ct
t 
 d
de
ep
po
os
si
it
t 
 o
of
f 
 d
di
iv
vi
id
de
en
nd
ds
sFor information about direct deposit of 
dividends,please contact Mellon Investor

Services LLC.SSt
to
oc
ck
kh
ho
ol
ld
de
er
r 
 i
in
nq
qu
ui
ir
ri
ie
es
sContact Mellon Investor Services LLCBy telephone:   
Within the United States,Canada and 
Puerto Rico:1-800-758-4651 

(toll-free)From all other locations:
1-201-680-6578 (collect) TDD service for the hearing impaired within the United States,Canada and 

Puerto Rico:1-800-231-5469 (toll-free) 
All other locations:1-201-680-6610 (collect)By mail:Mellon Investor Services LLC
480 Washington Blvd.

Jersey City,New Jersey 07310-1900
DDu
up
pl
li
ic
ca
at
te
e 
 m
ma
ai
il
li
in
ng
gs
sIf you receive duplicate mailings because you have more than one 
account listing and you wish to 
consolidate your accounts,please 
write to Mellon Investor Services LLC 
at the address above.
IIn
nd
de
ep
pe
en
nd
de
en
nt
t 
 r
re
eg
gi
is
st
te
er
re
ed
d 
 p
pu
ub
bl
li
ic
c 
 aac
cc
co
ou
un
nt
ti
in
ng
g 
 f
fi
ir
rm
mPricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
300 Madison Avenue

New York,New York 10017
DDi
ir
re
ec
ct
to
or
rs
sTo contact any of the Board members or
committee chairs,the Presiding Director,or

the non-management directors as a group,

please mail correspondence to:JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Attention (Board member(s))

Office of the Secretary
277 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10172
The Corporate Governance Principles 
of the Board,the charters of the principal 

Board committees,the Code of Conduct 

and the Code of Ethics for Finance

Professionals and other governance 
information can be accessed by visiting
www.jpmorganchase.com and clicking on

ﬁGovernance.ﬂStockholders may request 

a copy of such materials by writing to the
Office of the Secretary at the above address.
TTr
ra
an
ns
sf
fe
er
r 
 a
ag
ge
en
nt
t 
 a
an
nd
d 
 r
re
eg
gi
is
st
tr
ra
ar
rMellon Investor Services LLC480 Washington Blvd.

Jersey City,New Jersey 07310-1900

Telephone:1-800-758-4651

https://vault.melloninvestor.com/isd
IIn
nv
ve
es
st
to
or
r 
 S
Se
er
rv
vi
ic
ce
es
s 
 P
Pr
ro
og
gr
ra
am
m 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s 
Investor ServicesProgram offers a variety of convenient,low-

cost services to make it easier to reinvest 

dividends and buy and sell shares of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.common stock.A
brochure and enrollment materialsmay be

obtained by contacting the Program
Administrator,Mellon Investor Services LLC,

by calling 1-800-758-4651,by writing them

at the address indicated above or by visiting
their Web site at www.melloninvestor.com.
This annual report is printed on paper made from 
well-managed forests and other controlled sources.

The paper is independently certified by SmartWood,

a program of the Rainforest Alliance,to the Forest

Stewardship Council (FSC) standards.The paper contains

20% post-consumer waste (PCW) recycled fibers.
FSC is an independent nonprofit organization devoted to encouraging responsible management of the world™s

forests.FSC sets high standards to ensure forestry is 

practiced in an environmentally responsible,socially 

beneficial and economically viable way.
©2008 JPMorgan Chase & Co.All rights reserved.

Printed in the U.S.A.
20%
Cert no.  SW-COC-1576
Global Reports LLC
JPMORGAN CHASE& CO.
www.jpmorganchase.com
Global Reports LLC
