THE WAY FOR
WARD˜˜˜Annual Report 2009RRD to adjust width of spine 40 page editorial (70lb) + 212 page ˜nancial section (27lb)
Adjust score to 3/8ﬂ from spine to align with artwork
Adjust width score to 3/8ﬂ from spine
JPMorgan Chase & Co.   2009 Annual Report
www.jpmorganchase.com
As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share, ratio and headcount data)
  2009  2008 Reported basis
(a)Net revenue 
 $ 100,434 $ 67,252Noninterest expense 
  52,352  43,500Pre-provision pro˜t 
  48,082   23,752 Provision for credit losses 
  32,015   20,979Income before extraordinary gain
  11,652  3,699Extraordinary gain
  76  1,906Net income
 $ 11,728 $ 5,605 Per common share:
Basic earnings per share
 Income before extraordinary gain
 $ 2.25 $ 0.81   
 Net income
  2.27  1.35Diluted earnings per share
 Income before extraordinary gain
 $ 2.24 $ 0.81 Net income
  2.26  1.35Cash dividends declared per share
  0.20  1.52Book value per share
  39.88  36.15Return on common equity
 Income before extraordinary gain
  6%  2 % Net income
  6  
4Return on tangible common equity 
(b) Income before extraordinary gain
  10%  4 % Net income
  10  
6Tier 1 capital ratio 
  11.1  10.9Total capital ratio 
  14.8  14.8Tier 1 common capital ratio 
(b)  8.8  7.0 Total assets 
 $  2,031,989  $ 2,175,052Loans 
  633,458   744,898Deposits   938,367  1,009,277 Total stockholders™ equity 
  165,365  166,884Headcount
  222,316  224,961 (a)  Results are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, 
  except where otherwise noted.
 (b) Non-GAAP ˜nancial measure. For further discussion see ﬁExplanation and reconciliation of the ˜rm™s use of 
  non-GAAP ˜nancial measuresﬂ and ﬁRegulatory capitalﬂ in this Annual Report.
Financial Highlights
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global ˜nancial services ˜rm with 
assets of $2.0 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The ˜rm is a leader in 
investment banking, ˜nancial services for consumers, small business and commercial 

banking, ˜nancial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. 
 
A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase serves millions 
 of consumers in the United States and many of the world™s most prominent corporate, 

institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan and Chase brands.
Information about J.P. Morgan capabilities can be found at www.jpmorgan.com and 
about Chase capabilities at www.chase.com. Information about the ˜rm is available 
 at www.jpmorganchase.com.
©2010 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.
Printed in the U.S.A.
Corporate headquarters
270 Park Avenue
 New York, NY 10017-2070
 
Telephone: 212-270-6000
 
www.jpmorganchase.com
Principal subsidiariesJPMorgan Chase Bank, 
  National Association Chase Bank USA, 
  National Association J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 
Annual Report on Form 10-K
The Annual Report on Form 10-K of 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. as ˜led with the 
 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
 
will be made available without charge 
 
upon request to:
O˚ce of the Secretary
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
 
270 Park Avenue
 
New York, NY 10017-2070
Stock listing
New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
 London Stock Exchange Group plc
 
Tokyo Stock Exchange
The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
 ticker symbol for the common stock 
 
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. is JPM.
Financial information about JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. can be accessed by visiting 
 
the Investor Relations web site at 
 
www.jpmorganchase.com. Additional 
 
questions should be addressed to:
Investor Relations
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
 
270 Park Avenue
 
New York, NY 10017-2070
 
Telephone: 212-270-6000
Directors
To contact any of the Board members or 
 committee chairs, the Presiding Director 
 
or the non-management directors as a 

group, please mail correspondence to:
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 Attention (Board member(s))
 
O˚ce of the Secretary
 
270 Park Avenue
 
New York, NY 10017-2070
The Corporate Governance Principles 
 of the Board, the charters of the principal 

Board committees, the Code of Conduct, 

the Code of Ethics for Finance Professionals 

and other governance information can 
 
be accessed by visiting our web site at 
 
www.jpmorganchase.com and clicking on 

ﬁGovernanceﬂ under the ﬁAbout usﬂ tab. 
Transfer agent and registrar
BNY Mellon 480 Washington Boulevard
 
Jersey City, NJ 07310-1900
 
Telephone: 800-758-4651
 
Web: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner/isd
Investor Services Program 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s Investor Services 
 Program o˛ers a variety of convenient, 
 
low-cost services to make it easier
 
to reinvest dividends and buy and 
 
sell shares of JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
 
common stock. A brochure and enroll-
 
ment materials may be obtained by 
 
contacting the Program Administrator, 
 
BNY Mellon, by calling 800-758-4651, 
 
by writing to the address indicated 
 
above or by visiting its web site at 
 www.bnymellon.com/shareowner/isd.
Direct deposit of dividends
For information about direct deposit of 
dividends, please contact BNY Mellon.
Stockholder inquiries
Contact BNY Mellon:
By telephone: Within the United States, Canada and 
  Puerto Rico: 800-758-4651
  (toll free)
From all other locations: 
  201-680-6578 (collect)
 TDD service for the hearing impaired 
  within the United States, Canada and 
  Puerto Rico: 800-231-5469 (toll free) 
 All other locations:   201-680-6610 (collect)
By mail:
BNY Mellon 480 Washington Boulevard
 
Jersey City, NJ 07310-1900
Duplicate mailings
If you receive duplicate mailings because 
 you have more than one account listing 
 
and you wish to consolidate your accounts, 

please write to BNY Mellon at the  
address above.
Independent registered public 
 accounting ˜rm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 300 Madison Avenue
 
New York, NY 10017-6204
JPMorgan Chase & Co.As of the beginning of 2009, JPMorgan Chase has 
 distributed shareholder information under the 
 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ﬁNotice and 
 
Accessﬂ rule.  As a result, the ˜rm prints 600,000 
 
fewer Annual Reports and Proxy Statements, which 
 
saves on an annual basis approximately 5,500 trees 
 
and 700 metric tons of CO
2 emissions. This Annual Report is printed on paper made from 
 
well-managed forests and other controlled sources. 
 
The paper is independently certi˜ed by BVQI to the 
 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) standards. The 
 
paper contains a minimum of 20% post-consumer 
 
waste recycled ˜bers.
AND WE 
ARE COMMITTED TO ST
AYING THE COURSE:
 At JPMorgan 
Chase, we™re focused on doing our part to lead 
 the way forward during these di˜cult times. 
 W
hile we continue to face challenges in the ˚nancial systems 
 in the United States and around the world, we maintain a 
 fortress balance sheet and are well-positioned for the future. 
 W
e are con˚dent that we will continue to reinvest in our 
businesses for the bene˚t of our stakeholders, as we do the right 
thing for our customers and for the communities we serve.
 
including state and local governments, healthcare companies, 



opening additional loan-counseling centers and by o˛ering 
mortgage modi˚cations.

customer-friendly practices, like our new overdraft policy.

responsible business practices.


Foundation.
 As we move forward, JP
Morgan 
Chase remains a long-term optimist about our future and our country. 
We have a strong 
platform for progress, and we look forward to working with 
 
that lie ahead of us. 
2The past two years have been among the most extraordinary and challenging in 
recent history for JPMorgan Chase, the ˜nancial services industry and the global 
economy. We have endured a once-in-a-generation economic, political and social 
storm, the impact of which will continue to be felt for years or even decades to come. 
As we see signs of recovery and the debates about ˜nancial reform wage on, it™s 
easy for us to forget the fear and panic we felt a year ago. The market was down an 
astonishing 50% from its 2008 highs to its low on March 9, 2009. More important, 
as I write this letter, our country has lost 8.4 million jobs in what has turned out to 
be a more serious, sustained economic crisis than most of us have ever experienced 
before Š or may experience again. 
For JPMorgan Chase, these past two years have been part of a challenging, yet 
 de˜ning, decade. We began it as three separate companies: Bank One, Chase and 
 J.P. Morgan, with each facing serious strategic and competitive challenges. Today, our 
strategic position is clear, and JPMorgan Chase is a leader in all of its businesses. 
 If you had been a Bank One shareholder from 2000 to year-end 2009 (this represents 
approximately 40% of the current company) and you held on to your stock, you 
would have received a total return on your investment of 131%. Over the same time 
period, if you were a Chase or J.P. Morgan shareholder, your returns would have been 
12% and 70%, respectively. By comparison, the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index was 
down 9% over the same period.
Throughout this decade, we made and executed on many transformative decisions. 
When the global ˜nancial crisis unfolded in 2008, the people of JPMorgan Chase 
understood the vital role our ˜rm needed to play and felt a deep responsibility to our 
many stakeholders. It is this sense of responsibility that enables us to move beyond the 
distractions of the moment and stay focused on what really matters: taking care of our 
clients, helping the communities in which we operate and protecting our company. 
It is because of this focus Š even amid the daunting and ongoing challenges Š that 
we are able to weather this economic crisis and continue to play a central, if some
-times misunderstood, role in rebuilding the U.S. economy. This is a testimony to the 
collective strength of character and commitment of our people. Since those ˜rst 
chaotic days in early 2008, many of our people have worked around the clock, seven 
days a week, for months on end. 
Dear Fellow 
Shareholders,
3On March 16, 2008, we announced our acquisition of Bear Stearns at the request 
of the U.S. government; on September 25, 2008, 10 days after the collapse of 
 Lehman Brothers, we bought Washington Mutual. We loaned $70 billion in the 
global interbank market when it was needed the most. With markets in complete 
turmoil, we were the only bank willing to commit to lend $4 billion to the state of 
California, $2 billion to the state of New Jersey and $1 billion to the state of Illinois. 
Additionally Š and, frequently, when no one else would Š we loaned or raised for 
our clients $1.3 trillion, providing more than $100 billion to local governments, 
municipalities, schools, hospitals and not-for-pro˜ts over the course of 2009. 
Our industry and our country are continuing to face some serious challenges, but 
we believe that the strengths of our nation Š our resiliency, ability to reform and 
innovate, work ethic and culture Š will put us on the right track again to global 
˜nancial soundness. JPMorgan Chase will remain focused, and we will continue 
doing our part.
In the following sections of this letter, I™ll talk about a range of issues that bear on 
our company, our industry and our country: 
I.  How our company fared in 2009 Š with a focus on what we 
actually 
do as a  bank to serve our clients and customers and what we did to respond to the 
  crisis and help the communities in which we operate
 II. How we manage our people Š JPMorgan Chase™s most valuable asset
 III. Our support of ˜nancial reform that will strengthen the ˜nancial system
 IV.
 Our responsibility and America™s success
 Jamie Dimon,Chairman and 
 Chief Executive O˚cer
4Overall results Š performance improved from 
2008 but still was not great
Our revenue this year was a record $100 
billion, up from $67 billion in 2008. 
The large increase in revenue was due primarily to the 
inclusion for the full year of 
Washington Mutual (WaMu) and the dramatic turnaround 
were $12 billion, up from $6 billion in the 
prior year but down from $15 billion in the 
year before that. 
While these results represent a large improvement over 2008, they still are 
tangible equity of only 10%. Relative to our 
competition, our company fared extremely 
well. 
We did not su˛er a loss in any single 
quarter over the two-year crisis (we may have 
˚rms to achieve this). 
In absolute ˚nancial terms, however, our results were mediocre.
Maintaining our fortress balance sheet and 
commenting on our dividend 
During this di˜cult year, the strategic impera
-tives that have de˚ned and distinguished 
our company continued to serve us well. 
We maintained our focus on risk management; 
high-quality capital; strong loan loss reserves; 
honest, transparent reporting; and appro
-priately conservative accounting. 
We main-tained an extremely strong 
Tier 1 Common ratio, which stood at 8.8% at year-end. 
We also increased our loan loss reserves over the 
course of the year from $23.2 billion to $31.6 
billion, an extremely strong 5.5% of total 
loans outstanding. 
Our relentless focus on our 
balance sheet has always enabled us to prevail 
while continuing to invest in our businesses. 
 It served us extremely well over this period.
Early in 2009, we cut our annual dividend 

premised on the need to be prepared for a 
prolonged and potentially terrible economy. 
We hope to be able to increase the dividend to an annual range of $0.75 to $1.00 per share. 
To do so, we would like to see three speci˚c things 
happen: several months of actual improve
-ment in U.S. employment; a signi˚cant reduc
-tion in consumer charge-o˛s (which improves 
earnings and diminishes the need for addi
-tional loan loss reserves); and more certainty 
around the regulatory requirements for bank 
capital levels. Possible changes in capital and 
liquidity requirements as well as some tax 
proposals are creating uncertainty around our future capital needs. 
We hope there will be more clarity regarding these issues soon.
Many companies had to measurably dilute 
their shareholders because of this crisis. 
We did not. The only time we issued a material 
amount of stock was when we did it o˛en
-sively to ˚nance the 
WaMu purchase (and 
maintain our very high capital ratios). 
We also hope to be in a position to resume stock buy-


capital to grow our businesses organically and, 
secondarily, to make valuable acquisitions. 
We buy back stock only when we think it is a good 
value for our shareholders relative to the value 
of other opportunities. And if we use our stock 
in an acquisition, we do so because we believe 
the value we™re getting is at least equal to the 
value we™re giving.
Increasing our e˜ciency
Overall, we are a far more e˜cient company 
than we were ˚ve years ago, following the 

we™ve consolidated virtually all of our oper
-ating platforms, networks and data centers, 
and we have excellent technology and best-
in-class ˚nancial and risk systems. 
We also have exceptional legal, ˚nance, compliance, 
risk, human resources and audit sta˛. 
Today, 
 I.
 HOW OUR COMPANY FARED IN 2009 
the cost of this improved level of operation 
and service per dollar of revenue is signi˚
-
one example, our total technology and opera
-tions and corporate overhead costs would be 
more than $9 billion higher today if they were 
running at the same cost per dollar of revenue 
as in 2005.Continuing to invest
Through the worst of the past two years, we 
never stopped investing. 
This has included 
Stearns and Washington Mutual; investments 
in infrastructure, including systems and tech
-nology; new products, for example in 
Card Services; and the addition of bankers and 
branches around the world. 
These investments 
set us up for continued organic growth.
Preparing for tougher global competition 
The competitive landscape is rapidly changing. 
Many companies did not make it or had to 
be dramatically restructured. We expect this 
trend to continue in both the United States and Europe. 
We and others who survived 
bene˚ted from market share gains (in fact, 
we gained market share in virtually all of our 

of our competitors to come roaring back. 
With certain competitors and in certain parts of the world, this already is happening. 
We do not take this lightly.
Protecting the company in uncertain times 
You read about it every day: continued global 
trade imbalances, higher ˚scal de˚cits run 
by governments around the world, uncertain 
interest rate movements and potential regula
-tory changes, among other issues. 
I could go on 
for pages. 
Rest assured, we are paying very close 
attention to the di˜cult issues we still face.
Following is a recap of our line of business 
 results. 
In this section, 
I will focus on 
describing what we as a bank 
actually do, 
which seems to be so often misunderstood. 
As you read these results, 
I hope you will feel 


(even though we do make mistakes), and that 
we have been continuously and deliberately 
investing for future growth.
Net revenue
 (in billions)3040506070
8090$10020102009200520072006$54.2$71.42008$67.
3$62.0NET REVENUE$100.4
Pretax preprovision pro˜t
Managed net revenue* by line of business
 Full year 2009 
 (in millions)Investment 
 Bank $28,109
Retail 
 Financial 
 Services
 $32,692
Card Services
 $20,304
Commercial Banking
 $5,720
Treasury & Securities 
Services
 $7,344
  Asset Management
 $7,965
Corporate
 $6,513
26
%30%19
%5%
7%7%6%
Investment BankRetail Financial ServicesCorporat
eCa
rd ServicesTSS
Commercial BankingAsset Management17
%32%23
%7%11%10%Investment BankRetail Financial ServicesRetail Financial ServicesCa
rd ServicesTSS
Commercial BankingAsset Management42
%26
%16%12%4%
* For a discussion of managed basis presentation and a reconciliation 
to reported net revenue, see pages 58-59 of this Annual Report.
6Results by line of business: 
 Great leadership amid great challenges
The Investment Bank reported net income of $6.9 billion with an ROE of 21%Overall results

performance across the board: net income of 
$6.9 billion on revenue of $28.1 billion. 
These 
results were led by best-ever 
Global Markets 
revenue of $22 billion and record investment 

a return on equity of 21% on $33 billion of 
allocated capital, our best result in ˚ve years. 
We clearly bene˚ted from higher bid-o˛er 
spreads and higher volumes as the industry 
consolidated and vulnerable companies 
were distracted. 
In terms of market share, 

global capital-raising league table category. 
We do not, however, take this position for 
granted and understand that maintaining 
and growing our market share will undoubt
-edly be tough going forward. 
We believe 
our success was due to the dedication of our 
25,000 employees, who were working hard to 
serve our clients every day.
What we do in Corporate Finance 
Globally, we have more than 2,000 investment 
bankers, who serve the corporate ˚nance needs 
of 5,000 institutions around the world. 
More 
than 1,000 of these clients are sovereign govern
-ments, state and municipal governments, inter
-national quasi-government agencies, hospitals, 
schools and not-for-pro˚ts; the others are gener
-ally corporations and ˚nancial institutions. 

˚nancing, make strategic acquisitions or divesti
-tures, and help manage their balance sheets and 

rates, foreign exchange or commodity prices. 
In 2009, among their many activities, our 
investment bankers: 


$200 billion to 295 companies, helping them 

public markets for clients around the world.

or nearly 10% of the capital needed to rebuild the ˚nancial system.
-ties, hospitals, schools and not-for-pro˚ts 

social services, renovate local hospitals 
and train people for employment. 
This 
˚nancing included $19 billion to educa-


were not able to do so; for example: 
 
 
 
companies and help them recover (and keep 
their employees at work).



to power some 1.6 million 
U.S. homes. 
We also are a leader in sourcing, developing 
and trading emission-reduction credits, 
primarily through our investments in 
ClimateCare and EcoSecurities.
In difficult times, extending this level and 
type of credit is exceedingly risky and 
costly. For example, in 2008 and 2009, we 
wrote off or reserved for approximately 
 $8.9 billion of credit-related losses related 
 
7inventory of a store. 
We hold the securities so we can meet client demand. 
Our sales and trading functions not only play a critical role 
in helping to maintain large, liquid and well-
functioning markets, but they are indispens
-able to institutions of all types seeking to raise capital in the ˚rst place.
As more clients chose to work with us in 2009, 
our sales and trading teams gained market 
share. 
We estimate that our market share 
of the top 10 players in Fixed 
Income and 
Equity Markets combined grew from approxi
-mately 9% in 2008 to more than 12% in 2009. 
Deservedly, these groups also received a lot 

based surveys.
How we intend to grow 
In 2010, we will continue to focus on the 
fundamentals of investment banking: advising 
companies and investors, raising capital, 
making markets and executing for our clients 
worldwide. 
If we do this well, we are helping 
not only our clients but the global economic recovery as well.
We also are aggressively and organically 
growing many parts of our business. For 
example, the Prime 
Services business we 

mostly large investors with custody, ˚nancing 
Key earnings metrics 
 (in millions, except for ratio and per share data)
What we do in Sales and Trading
Trading is perhaps the least understood area 
of our investment banking activities. 
We have 
6,500 professionals on approximately 120 
trading desks in 25 trading centers around 
the world; these professionals include more 
than 800 research analysts who educate 



professionals is to provide 16,000 investor 
clients globally with research expertise, advice 
and execution capabilities to help them buy 
and sell securities and other ˚nancial instru-ments. 
These investors range from state and 
municipal pension plans to corporations and 
governments. 
We have experienced special
-ists who are prepared to buy or sell large 
amounts of stocks and bonds, foreign curren
-cies or commodities for clients and to give 
them immediate cash or liquidity when they 

never stopped doing 
even at the most trying moments of the 
˚nancial crisis. Additionally, we help organi
-
providing a range of derivatives products.
Although we run our sales and trading busi
-ness to support clients, it is a risky business. 
We execute approximately 2 million trades 
and buy and sell close to $2.5 trillion of cash and securities each day. 
On an average day, 

  2005   
 2006  
2007
  
 2008   
2009  Investment Bank
 $ 3,673   
$ 3,674  
$ 3,139  
$  (1,175 )  
$ 6,899Retail Financial Services 
  3,427     
3,213   
2,925   
880     
97Card Services 
  1,907    
3,206   
2,919    
 780      
(2,225 )Commercial Banking 
  951    
1,010   
1,134   
1,439     
1,271Treasury & Securities Services 
  
863    
1,090   
1,397   
1,767     
1,226Asset Management
  1,216    
1,409   
1,966   
1,357    
1,430Corporat
e*   (3,554 )   
842   
1,885   
557     
3,030Total net income 
 $ 8,483   
$ 14,444  
$ 15,365   
$ 5,605   
$ 11,728Return on tangible equity
  
15 %  
24 %  
22 %  
6 %   
10 % Earnings per share Š diluted
 $ 2.35   
$ 4.00  
$ 4.33  
$ 1.35   
$ 2.26* Includes extraordinary 
gains and merger costs. 
For more details on the 
 Corporate sector, see 
page 82.
8
in the 
United 
States. 
We now are growing this 
business in Europe and Asia. Across the busi
-ness, we will continue to invest in enhancing 
our technology, spending $1 billion this year 
on upgrades and innovations. 
We also are 
expanding our coverage in key markets, 

by adding investment banking and trading 
professionals and providing them with the 
corresponding support they need (i.e., credit and 
systems) to cover more corporate and investor 
clients in these markets. For example, in the last 
˚ve years in 
India, we have gone from covering 
36 companies to 180 companies. 
We will simply 
grow with the emerging economies.
Cazenove
At the end of 2009, we announced that our 




other things, it increased our 
U.K. investment 
banking market share* from 5% to 13%. 
We 

service sets a standard for all of us.
Commodities 
We continue to build out our Commodities franchise. Price ˝uctuations in commodities 
like oil, gas and electricity a˛ect many compa
-nies throughout the world. 
We help our corpo-rate clients manage this risk by enhancing 
our trading and warehousing capacity. 
Since 2006, our 
Commodities business has more than doubled its revenue from serving clients. 
In February 2010, we announced our agree
-
commodities business for $1.7 billion. 
This acquisition will give us the ability in 
Europe to trade oil, gas and electricity far more exten
-sively than we can now; it will enhance all of 
our prior U.S. capabilities; and it will add a capability to warehouse metals for clients. 
It also will nearly double the number of corpo-rate clients we serve in 
Commodities, to more 
than 2,000. Retail Financial Services reported net income 
of $97 million with an ROE of 0%Overall results
Retail Financial 
Services (RFS) continued to 

earned $3.9 billion, primarily by serving 
customers through bank branches in 23 states. 
of continued high charge-o˛s in the home 
lending business.
In our fastest conversion ever, we upgraded 
1,800 
Washington 
Mutual branches and 

systems, products and branding. As a result 
of these conversions, customers today have 

the country (from New York and Florida to 
California). Former 
WaMu customers have 
received greater access to better systems and 
products, and we did it at greatly reduced 
cost to the ˚rm (approximately $2 billion 
˚rmwide). We now have one of the most 
attractive franchises in the country, with 
enormous opportunities to grow.
What we do in Retail Banking 

branches in 23 states served more than 30 
million 
U.S. consumers and small businesses by 
providing checking and savings accounts and 
investments, as well as home, business, auto 
and student loans. For our 
RFS professionals, 
2009 was a year of numerous accomplishments:
million teller transactions, 3.5 billion debit 
card purchases, 100 million A
TM deposits, 
close to 6 billion checks and more than 
 1.3 billion statements.

assets under management to help consumers toward their goals.

customers and another 5.2 million new online banking customers.
* Market share as measured 
 in total fees.
9

-gage o˜cers and investment representatives 

In addition, we are revamping our overdraft 
policies to meet regulatory requirements, to 
make them clearer and simpler, and to give 
customers more control. Customers now can choose if they want overdraft services for their 
debit cards, and they will have a real-time 
ability to see their balances over the course 
of the day. 
These changes are ongoing and 
complex. 
We hope to complete them with minimal disruption and maximum consumer satisfaction. While costly (we estimate these 
changes will reduce our after-tax income by 
approximately $500 million annually), we 
believe these moves will strengthen our long-
term relationship with our customers.
What we do in Small Business Banking
In 2009, our nearly 2,000 business bankers 
provided approximately $2.3 billion in new 
loans (our total outstanding loans are $17 
billion) and other services to help 2 million 
business owners nationwide manage their 

down 58%, as customer demand decreased 
signi˚cantly and our underwriting stan-dards became more disciplined. We expect a 
substantial turnaround in 2010, and, in fact, 
we already are seeing increased demand from 
more quali˚ed customers.
We are renewing our e˛orts to get more credit 
into the marketplace, including adding 375 
small business bankers to our current work
-force. 
In late 2009, we committed to boosting 

in 2010 (to a total of $10 billion) through increased access to working capital, term loans 
for expansion, commercial mortgages, lines of 
credit and business credit cards. 
What we do in Consumer Lending
home and auto loans for consumers. 
In terms of overall results, it was another di˜cult year 

billion, driven by increased charge-o˛s and 
additions to loan loss reserves in our home 
lending portfolios. As discussed last year, these 
losses were the result of departures from our 
traditional (and well-tested) underwriting 
standards, sharply falling home prices and the 
deepening recession. While there has been some improvement in delinquencies and home 
prices in some markets, we believe that signi˚
-cant improvement will depend largely on an 
improving economy.

continued to rise during 2009, and we added 
$5.2 billion in reserves to our portfolio. 
We anticipate that this portfolio will continue to 
lose money for the next three years (excluding 
reserve changes) as we work through a 
backlog of problem loans. 
The losses come not only from charge-o˛s but from the costs 
of managing delinquencies and foreclosures 
(though we were able to reduce the number 
 of homes that we own from 12,700 in 2008 
 More positively, we took a leadership role in 
helping American homeowners through the 
most di˜cult housing market of a generation. 

-owners through modi˚cation programs and other actions to prevent foreclosure. 
We also to allow struggling borrowers to talk with 
loan counselors face to face and have begun 
opening 17 more in early 2010. These e˛orts 
have allowed us to begin the mortgage modi˚
-cation process for nearly 600,000 homeowners 
(approximately one-third of which are modi
-˚cations under the government™s new 
Home A˛ordable 
Modi˚cation Program, or 
HAMP).The mortgage business essentially has 
returned to the more disciplined underwriting of many years ago: 80% loan-to-value ratios 
and income veri˚cation. 
In 2009, we origi
-nated more than $150 billion in new home 10loans, much of it re˚nancing that allowed 
homeowners to lower their payments by 
taking advantage of historically low interest 
rates. 
Most of the loans that we originate are 
sold to Fannie 
Mae, Freddie 
Mac or Ginnie 
with loan amounts larger than those permitted in government programs), but we have been 
very cautious. 
The home lending business will 
certainly is critical to the proper functioning of 
be a leader in it.In 2009, we also became the largest 
U.S. auto lender, ˚nancing more than 1.1 million auto 
loans for consumers, up 25% from 2008. 
Our the end of 2009.How we intend to grow
To provide better service to our millions of 
customers, we plan to 
add 2,700 personal 
representatives in 2010. 
These e˛orts should 
help us earn new customers and broaden our relationships with existing customers beyond 
checking accounts and other basic services. 
In addition, we expect to open at least 120 more 
branches in 2010 and to ramp up our pace of 
-fornia and Florida, two of the fastest-growing 
U.S. markets, which were introduced to us 
through the WaMu acquisition.Card Services reported a net loss of  $2.2 billionOverall results

for our credit card business. 
The economic environment drove charge-o˛ rates to all-
time highs. 
Card Services lost $2.2 billion (compared with last year™s pro˚t of $780 
million). While I don™t want to diminish the 
negative overall results, there were some posi
-tives. 
We were able to grow market share in 
terms of accounts and customer spending; 

competitors™ performance.
What we do in Card Services
Our 23,000 Card Services employees around 
the world provide ˚nancial ˝exibility and 
convenience to customers who, in 2009, used 
Chase credit cards to meet more than $328 billion of their spending needs. 
With more 
approximately 50 million customers with 

among the largest U.S. card issuers, with a 
wide variety of general purpose credit cards 
for individual consumers and small businesses. 
We also issue cards with a number of partner 
-tion of Retired Persons (AA
RP), 
Continental Airlines, 
Marriott, 
Southwest Airlines, 
United Airlines and Walt Disney.
How we dealt with new regulation
In 2009, in addition to the terrible environ
-ment, the 
U.S. credit card business faced 
fairly dramatic changes because of a new 
law enacted by 
Congress in May. 
The new 
law restricts issuers™ ability to change rates 
and prohibits certain practices that were not 
considered consumer-friendly. 
These changes 
alone are expected to reduce our after-tax 
income by approximately $500 million to 

as both consumers and competitors change 
their behavior. 
11We believe that many, but not all, of the 
changes made were completely appropriate. 
In fact, we had voluntarily eliminated certain 

billing, which resulted in greater interest 
charges for customers who revolve a balance 
for the ˚rst time (2007); and universal default 
pricing, in which creditors consider credit 
histories with other lenders in setting rates (2008). However, because the new law makes 
it harder to raise rates on customers who have 
become far riskier and because all payments 
now must go toward reducing users™ highest-
rate balances (vs. lower-rate balances), we and 
other competitors have had to make some 
fairly drastic changes in the business: 

introductory or promotional balance transfers. 
This change alone reduced our 
outstanding balances by $20 billion.

credit cards to approximately 15% of the 
customers to whom we currently o˛er them. 
This is mostly because we deem them too 
risky in light of new regulations restricting 

the client™s risk pro˚le changes. 

canceled credit cards for customers who 
had not done business with us over an 
extended period.
In fact, the industry as a whole reduced limits 
While we believe this was proper action to 
protect both consumers and card issuers, doing 
so in the midst of a recession did reduce a source of liquidity for some people. 
Ultimately, 
however, the change may make the card busi
-ness a more stable and better business.
How we intend to grow
Aggressive product innovation is fundamental 
to the development of the credit card business. 
Even through the recent tumultuous times, 
we never stopped investing in new products 
and services to meet our customers™ needs. 
In 2009, 
Chase launched more products at one 
time than any other issuer. 
New products and services included two 
Chase-branded card programs, a rewards platform, and a new 
feature to help better manage spending and borrowing. 
Here are some of the highlights:SM card was developed 
from the ground up to address the needs of a˙uent consumers, with premium rewards 
and exceptional service.
SM from Chase is a suite of business cards o˛ering ˝exible payment options and 
resources for small business owners.

SM program o˛ers countless redemption options through a single website: www.ultimaterewards.com.
SM is an industry-˚rst set of features to improve the way 
Chase customers manage their spending and borrowing, with tools to 
help consumers take charge of their ˚nances, 
pay down balances and manage spending.
These new products* and programs would 

but the fact that we launched them in one of 
the worst-ever 
U.S. consumer environments is 

build stronger customer relationships. 
Even 
as the credit card business has seen more than its share of di˜culties during the past year, we 
believe our new products will help us rebuild 
trust with our customers. 
It™s a process that 
will take time, but if we focus on delivering 
useful products and making ˚nancing easier for our customers, 
Card Services will return to being a business that is good for our customers 
and pro˚table for our company.
* If you would like to review any 
of our new products, go to 
 our website: www.chase.com.
12

New York, to serve an additional 18,000 
patients per year.
and renewed commitments to 
GNPH and educational entities in Ohio, we provided 
Kent 
State University with needed ˚nancing.

 in Chicago in ˚nancing the construction  of a new $915 million building with a  $196 million credit facility.
How we intend to grow
Having successfully completed the conver
-sion of commercial client accounts acquired through Washington Mutual, 
Commercial 
-ness already is taking advantage of 
Chase™s 
retail branch network to expand its o˛erings 

Oregon, 
Georgia and Florida. We™ll now cover 
these new markets by supporting a full range 
of clients, from middle market companies to 
large corporations. 
We are achieving this by 


to serve these additional markets. 
Several years 
from now, when this expansion ultimately is 
completed, we expect it will generate hundreds 
of millions of dollars in additional pro˚ts annually.
On another front, when JP
Morgan 
Chase and 
$1 billion in revenue from investment banking 
(up from $552 million). This year, we exceeded 
the goal and are poised to continue growing this business.
Commercial Banking reported net income of $1.3 billion with an ROE of 16%Overall results

challenges to deliver exceptional ˚nancial 
performance. 
Even as substantially higher 
credit costs negatively a˛ected quarterly 
results, the business exceeded its annual plan 
by focusing on client selection, marketing 
its business aggressively, managing risks 
and expenses, and excelling in client service. 
Highlights included a 20% boost in revenue to 
$5.7 billion; a 25% improvement in operating 
margin to $3.5 billion; double-digit increases in both average liability balances, up 10%, and 
average loan balances, up 30%; and a 20% 


were 
fabulous
 results in any environment.
What we do in Commercial Banking

˚nancing needs of nearly 25,000 clients and 
over 30,000 real estate investors and owners. 

client relationship with us is more than 18 years. 
In 2009, we added over 1,700 new 
Commercial 

relationships. 
With a team of banking, treasury 
and client service professionals situated in local 
markets coast to coast and around the world, 



$73 billion in new ˚nancing, which included 
nearly $8 billion to the government, not-for-
pro˚t and healthcare (
GN
PH) and education 
sectors. For example:
13Treasury & Securities Services reported net 
income of $1.2 billion with an ROE of 25%Overall results
Treasury & Securities Services (TSS) delivered 
solid but lower results, producing 2009 pro˚ts 
of $1.2 billion vs. $1.8 billion in the prior year. 
The business delivered net revenue of $7.3 
billion, down 10% from the previous year. 
We 
business because it grows with our clients and with in˝ation; delivers excellent margins 
and high returns on capital; and is hard for 
would-be competitors to replicate because of 
its global scale, long-term client relationships 
and complex technology. 
Our 2009 performance largely was driven 
by weakened market conditions and lower 
interest rates. 
Securities lending and foreign 
exchange volumes and spreads, in partic
-ular, saw signi˚cant declines. 
TSS
 also saw 
deposits level o˛ after an exceptional period 
in late 2008 and early 2009, when we were 
a huge bene˚ciary of the markets™ ˝ight 
to quality. 
Despite the headwinds of 2009, 
the underlying business drivers remained 
strong: International electronic funds transfer 
volumes grew 13%, assets under custody 
increased 13% and the number of wholesale 
cards issued grew 19%.What we do in Treasury & Securities Services
More than 6,000 TSS bankers serve more than 
business in 60 locations around the world. 
TSS provides clients with critical products and 
services, including global custody in more than 
90 global markets, holding nearly $15 trillion 
in assets; corporate cash management, moving 
an astounding $10 trillion a day of cash trans
-actions around the world for clients; corporate 
card services, providing 27 million cards to 
more than 5,000 corporate clients and govern
-ment agencies; and trade services, guaran
-teeing international payments for our clients, 
who are many of the world™s largest global 
companies. Following are some speci˚c exam
-ples of how TSS supports a range of clients:
bene˚ts to more than 12 million individuals in 2009, as the national leader in bringing 
electronic banking services to low-income households through electronic bene˚ts transfer and debit and stored-value cards. 

to serve as custodian for its program to 
purchase up to $1.25 trillion in mortgage-
backed securities in order to provide support 
to the mortgage and housing markets.

provider to the 
U.S. Postal 
Service, 
providing cash and check depository 
services to nearly one-third of the 
U.S. Postal 
Service™s 80 districts. 
How we intend to grow
TSS essentially grows by following its clients 
around the world, which means opening 
 new branches and constantly improving 
products. 
In 2009, 
TSS opened new branches 
in China, 
Denmark, Finland, 
Norway and 
Sweden; launched new services in 
Tokyo, 

capabilities in Australia, 
India, 
Europe, the 
Middle East and Africa. 
We will continue this expansion for the foreseeable future. 
In addition, more than three years ago, 
TSS 

With a team of more than 100 corporate 

multinational clients by giving them access 
to 
TSS
 products and services and certain 

exchange and debt. 
We intend to expand the 

next several years by opening 20-30 locations 
and adding 150 corporate bankers, allowing 
us to cover approximately 1,000 new clients 
(3,100 total, up from 2,100).
14Asset Management reported net income of $1.4 billion with an ROE of 20%Overall results
Asset Management, with assets under supervi
-sion of $1.7 trillion, saw earnings increase by 
5% in a year that began with strong negative 
headwinds and ˚nished with a market rally. 
Overall, the year™s results re˝ected several 
trends, including strong investment perfor
-
excellent investment performance from 
High-bridge Capital Management and a breakout 
year for our 
U.S. retail mutual funds business. 
All of these trends re˝ected an improving 
story from the challenges of the past two years.
What we do in Asset Management 
Our Asset 
Management franchise consists 
of two primary businesses. 
The ˚rst is 
Invest
-ment 
Management, in which 6,500 employees 
help institutions and retail investors worldwide 
manage their cash; provide equity, ˚xed income 
and alternative investment strategies; and 

U.S. employers. 
Overall, we manage more than 
$1.2 trillion in assets for our clients. 
Our second primary business is Private 

world™s wealthiest individuals and families 
grow, manage and sustain their wealth with 
investing, portfolio structuring, capital advi
-sory, philanthropy and banking services.
Throughout 2009, our Asset 
Management professionals advised institutions on how to 
strengthen pension plans for the bene˚t of 
their employees; advised more than 1.6 million 

retirement; executed comprehensive ˚nan
-cial plans for family enterprises and business 
owners; distributed more than $100 million to charities on behalf of ˚duciary clients; and 
brought market insight and top-performing 
products to ˚nancial advisors who guide 
millions of individual investors worldwide.
Within Asset 
Management, our Fixed 
Income group solidi˚ed its position as the #1 provider of global liquidity (we manage 
$590 billion), and our 
U.S. Equity platform 
had 82% of assets under management in the top two quartiles of peer fund group invest
-ment performance over ˚ve years. 
Our U.S. retail business had an exceptional year despite 
clients™ broadly based risk aversion, bringing 
in record net asset ˝ows and ranking third in principally to the sale of strong-performing 
˚xed income products. 

due to in˝ows from clients and solid investing, 
lending and banking activity, as well as the 
addition of nearly 100 client advisors and ˚ve 
new Private 
Wealth Management o˜ces (in Miami, Philadelphia, 
San Francisco, 
Seattle and Washington, 
D.C.).In mid-2009, J.P. 
Morgan assumed 100% 
ownership of Highbridge Capital Management, 
one of the largest alternative asset managers 
in the United States, with $21 billion in client 

augment our alternative investment o˛er
-ings for clients. 
Highbridge delivered the best 
investment performance in its history in 2009, 

assets have grown threefold.
Importantly, rigorous risk management 
enabled Asset 
Management to provide valu
-able support to our clients and avoid many 
of the negative developments that surfaced 
during the ˚nancial crisis and damaged an untold number of investors.
How we intend to grow
Our Investment 
Management business is developing new global strategies, including 
funds focused on maritime investments, 
commodities, distressed debt and 
China. We also plan to enhance Investment 
Manage-ment™s global distribution with the addition 
of more than 200 employees and increased 
budgets for marketing and client outreach. 
15
globally by adding more than 500 bankers, 
investors and client service employees. 
In addi-tion, we intend to continue to invest in the 
growth of the brokerage business we acquired 

improving but volatile investment environ
-
Asset Management to continue to thrive by 
helping millions of individuals, families and 
institutions achieve their ˚nancial goals.
The Corporate sector reported net income  of $3.7 billionOur Corporate sector, excluding merger-
related items, produced net income of $3.7 
billion compared with $768 million in the 
prior year. 
The 
Corporate sector comprises 
three segments: Private 
Equity, unallocated 
corporate expenses and our corporate invest
-ment portfolio. 
Our Private 
Equity segment 
reported a net loss of $78 million vs. a net loss 
of $690 million in 2008. Remember, however, 
in 2007, we had an outstanding year with 

billion. We know that Private 
Equity returns, 
by their nature, are lumpy, but we expect to 
average 20% returns over the years.
Our corporate investment portfolio, which 
we own in order to manage excess cash, our 
collateral needs and interest rate exposure, 
grew from a low of $91 billion in 
March 2008 

investment portfolio produced exceptional 
performance, the result of both managing 
interest rate exposures and buying securities 
that we thought were extremely safe invest
-ments and were trading at large discounts to 




a gain of $3.3 billion at year-end. 
It™s impor
-tant to note that your company manages its 
interest rate exposure extremely carefully and 
believes that taking this exposure is funda
-mentally not how we make our money. Any 

we do not consider that a business. 
We do not 

any other source; we borrow at market rates, 
like everyone else does. 

investment gains in 2010, but we do not expect 
these exceptional results to continue. 
Over 
the course of the year, 
Corporate quarterly net income (excluding Private 
Equity, merger-
related items and any signi˚cant nonrecurring 
items) is expected to decline to approximately 
$300 million. 16Nothing is more vital to the long-term growth of JPMorgan 
Chase than our ability to attract and retain talented and dedicated employees. 
Ours is a complicated business. 
Managing it requires complex systems, extensive quanti
-tative skills and risk discipline. 
The pressure trader dealing with large positions to a call center employee helping a customer modify 
a mortgage loan that no longer is a˛ordable. 

level of social intelligence and skill to handle 
all types of customers facing all kinds of  challenging circumstances. 
Success at our ˚rm requires that employees 
treat clients and customers respectfully and 
fairly and stay true to the values embedded in 
our culture: personal commitment, honesty, 
teamwork, diversity and community awareness.
Ensuring we have the best people, training and 
leadership requires that we do many things 
right, from recruiting and training to recog
-
This is what enables us to attract, retain and 
develop the best people.
Recruiting and training talent
The breadth, complexity and variety in the 
work our people do are impressive by any 
measure but are not well-understood. 
We have 
220,000 employees around the world. 
While 


eye. 
These individuals are essential to our global operations and include:
-tion developers and information technology 
employees who tirelessly keep our 80 data 
centers, 55,000 servers, 225,000 desktops 



record time.

-tions functions globally and thousands 
of customer service colleagues. 
In 2009, 


homes, understand credit card payment 
plans and avoid ˚nancial problems during 
these di˜cult times.

-ance, 
Risk, Audit, 
Human Resources and Finance in 60 countries who rigorously 

review the policies we have and address the 
issues we face. For example, we rely upon 
hundreds of credit risk o˜cers to manage our various exposures, including $2 billion of 
new loans we make on average every day.

behind the scenes to keep our operations safe 
and e˜cient, including mailroom attendants, 
mechanics and engineers, executive assistants, 
receptionists, security personnel and those 
who manage our facilities worldwide.

employees each year, all of whom must be 
trained in our products, services and proce
-
we hire 1,800 people with advanced degrees 

our people have advanced degrees in math, 
science and physics. 
While many of these 

work in Asset 
Management, 
Credit and Risk 
Securities Services, as well as in data centers 
across the ˚rm. Employees of JP
Morgan 
Chase receive ongoing 
training and development to ensure they are 
well-equipped to manage the complex systems, 
risk management disciplines and client rela-tionships that are critical to our franchise. 
Additionally, many are prepared to assume 
managerial and leadership roles over time. 

- II. HOW WE MANAGE OUR PEOPLE Š
    
JPMORGAN CHASE™S MOST VALUABLE ASSET 
17ment programs and more than 20,000 training programs (including online courses) that enable our people to hone and expand their 
skills in a rapidly changing business.
Ongoing assessment and development 
At JP
Morgan 
Chase, we are fortunate to attract 
world-class talent. 
We owe it to our employees, 
our customers and our shareholders to create 
an environment in which our people can do 
their best work. 
Toward this end, we believe 
in assessing their strengths and weaknesses 
and regularly giving them honest and thor-ough feedback. Additionally, we know that 
in order to sustain our strong competitive 
position, we must focus on developing excep
-tional leaders. 
This starts with a clear and 
shared understanding about the attributes we 
value most in senior managers. 
These qualities 
must be intentionally fostered and reinforced 
through a rigorous talent assessment process. 
This process now is embedded as part of how 
we operate. 
We also are developing a general 

help us add to our bench and build general 
management talent on an ongoing basis.
Encouraging mobility and multiple careers

long-term success. 
We have to clearly outline 
what people need to do to move to the next 
level at JP
Morgan 
Chase. 
We are working to 
do away with statements such as, ﬁ
My boss 
won™t let me go – or my boss won™t let me 

have the right to explore di˛erent career 
opportunities and follow their dreams. 
While 
it™s also an individual™s responsibility to 

help facilitate that. We strive to be proactive 
and thoughtful in that regard. 
Intense focus on succession
We need to be honest and thoughtful about potential successors, particularly for senior 

ensure that we have people in the pipeline 
who are capable of assuming senior levels of 
responsibility three, ˚ve or even seven years 
out or right away if necessary (the ﬁhit by a 


Poor 
CEO succession has destroyed many a 
company. 
CEO and management succession often seems more like a psychological drama 
or a Shakespearean tragedy than the reasoned 
and mature process it should be. 
It is in our best interest to avoid such drama. 
I want to assure you, our shareholders, that 



rotate some of our senior people across the busi-ness to ensure that others are fully developed to 

-tors not only believes that this is a priority but 
that it is of the utmost importance. And you can 

the case. 
They personally know all of the 
Oper-ating 
Committee members of the company (and 

-
company™s key succession plans.
Getting compensation right
Compensation is one of the most complex 

employees, our company, our shareholders 
and, increasingly, the public at large. A poorly 
conceived compensation strategy can devas
-tate a company by attracting the wrong people 
and incenting them to do the wrong things for the wrong reasons. At JP
Morgan 
Chase, 
we put a great deal of time and thought into 
designing compensation plans that attract and motivate good people and reward good 
behavior. 
Of course, compensation aside, we 
always expect our people to do the right thing. 
A badly designed compensation plan never is 
an excuse for bad behavior.
Many people are concerned and angry about 
compensation practices across the ˚nan-
concerns are quite legitimate. 
Senior leaders at some companies made a great deal of 18money while their companies failed and, in 
the process, helped contribute to the crisis in 


-nies had bad compensation practices.
In this section, 
I™m going to describe how our overall 2009 compensation related to other 
industries, present some overall principles 
 that guide us and explain how we apply these 
principles in compensating our people. 
Comparing JPMorgan Chase with other 
industries 
In 2009, JP
Morgan 
Chase™s total expenses were 
$52 billion. The total compensation (salaries and bene˚ts and incentives) your company 
paid out was $27 billion. 
JPMorgan Chase compensation Š 2009
    Average per 
 Total
 employee
   (in billions) (in thousands)Salaries $ 12.5  $ 56 Bene˜ts*
  3.9   
18Incentive
compensation**
  
10.6  
46 Total compensation
  and bene˜ts***
 $ 27.0 $ 120    As seen above, we paid salaries and bene˚ts 


per person for a total of $120,000 per person. 
These salary and bene˚t numbers are gener-˚nancial and non-˚nancial. The incentive awards come in various forms 
(cash, commissions, restricted stock, options, 
etc.). Approximately 32% of the incentive 
compensation for 2009 was in restricted stock 
and options that vest over a number of years. 
At JPMorgan 
Chase, the use of stock options 



compensation expense. 
Many commentators, in an attempt to measure 
fairness and reasonableness of a company™s 
compensation payouts, have looked at total 
compensation as a percentage of revenue. 
On this basis, JP
Morgan 
Chase™s total compensa
-tion (salaries, bene˚ts and bonuses) was 27% 
for 2009; this number averaged 33% over 
the previous several years. For our 
Invest
-

was 33% of revenue, down from an average 
 
The chart on the next page compares these 
same percentages with a wide mix of busi-nesses. For the average 
U.S. business, total 
compensation as a percentage of revenue is 
approximately 16%. 
In general, at businesses 
that are people-intensive and not capital- or 
intellectual property-intensive, such as profes
-sional services companies, a high percentage 
of the company™s revenue is paid out to the 

are not included in the following table), pay 
out more than 80% of their revenue to their 
employees. 
In highly capital-intensive compa
-nies, like telecommunications or certain 
manufacturing companies, payout ratios are 
considerably lower. 
Some commentators also have looked at total 
compensation as a percent of pro˚ts. 
Here you 
see a similarly wide range of results.
Essentially, the ˚nancial dynamics and struc
-tures of various businesses are very di˛erent, 
and looking at these ratios always will produce 

reveal very much. 
It also is important to point out that at many 
companies, a signi˚cant amount of incentive 
compensation generally is paid regardless 
of whether or not the overall company does 
well. 
Many companies pay certain individuals 
based on their speci˚c performance (sales and 
service employees) and not necessarily on the 
performance of the company. 
JPMorgan 
Chase does employ a number of 
highly compensated individuals, probably 

 * This includes what JPMorgan 
Chase contributes to various 
bene˜ts programs (i.e., 401(k) 
match, pension, health and 
welfare, etc.) and employment-
related taxes.
 ** Represents 2009 expense based 
on U.S. GAAP.
 *** While we have 220,000 
employees, our health plan 
covers 400,000 people, 
 which includes covered 
 family members.
all. We
 are unable to Þ nd
 real comparisons.
 Much
 of the anger about highly compensated 
individuals at banks relates to the argument 
that all of these companies would
 have
 failed, which
 we
 do not believe
 is true (more detail 
on this in the next section). Finally,
 the more highly paid the individual is at JPMorgan
 
Chase, the higher the percentage of compensa-tion awarded
 in restricted stock
 and options.
 
Before we
 speak speciÞ cally
 about how we
 compensate individuals at JPMorgan
 Chase, itÕs
 appropriate to outline our principles.
 Some key compensation principles at 
JPMorgan ChaseWe
 believe
 the compensation principles we
 
use are best practices and compare favorably
 
with those outlined by
 outside authorities,
 such
 as the G-20, the Financial
 Services Authority,
 the Financial
 Stability Board, the Federal
 Reserve
 and the U.S.
 Treasury.
 Our 
principles are as follows:
¥ Pay
 a signiÞ cant
 percentage of our incentive
 compensation in stock:
 at least 67% for the 
Operating Committee members and approxi-

mately 50% for the remainder of our senior 
management team. ¥ Structure the
 stock
 we
 grant Ð restricted stock
 units or options Ð to vest
 over
 multiple years.
¥ Require
 Operating Committee members to retain and hold approximately
 75% of the 
stock
 they receive
 from the company
 after 
the stock
 vests.
¥ Generally do
 not provide multi-year guar-
antees to new hires and almost never
 to current employees.
¥ Institute
 meaningful recoupment policies,
 some of which
 we
 enhanced in 2008 and 
2009 and are progressively
 more strin-
gent at higher levels
 of management. For
 
all employees,
 if anyone
 causes material Þ nancial
 or reputational harm to the Þ rm or its business activities,
 we
 can recoup the employeeÕs
 incentives,
 including stock.
 ¥ For
 approximately
 500 senior individuals,
 unvested
 stock
 also can be recouped for 
failure to properly identify,
 raise or assess,
 in a timely manner and as reasonably expected, material risks to the Þ rm.¥ For
 the
 Operating
 Committee and for
 me,
 unvested
 stock
 or options can be recouped not only for the reasons mentioned above
 but also if reasonable progress toward
 personal and company
 goals is not met. This
 is at the discretion of the Board of
 Directors.
 
1  Compensation/revenue
 based on U.S.
 data only;
 JPMorgan
 Chase
 
data based on worldwide totals.2  Net
 income margin
 based on 2004Ð2008
 average
 for
 S&P 500 companies and adjusted for
 
exceptional
 losses/gains.
 3  Compensation/sales
 based on U.S.
 Census
 Bureau
 data.4  Revenue
 based on 2009 gross
 revenue
 before
 interest
 expense.
5  Includes
 investment
 banks, asset management Þ rms, capital
 markets Þ rms
 and other non-lending
 Þ nancial institutions.
6  Includes
 regional
 banks, credit
 card companies and other credit/

lending
 institutions. NA Ñ Not applicable.
10%20%30%40%
Healthcare
 providers
 and services
Professional,
 scientiÞc and technical services
NewspapersJ.P.
 Morgan Investment
 Bank (gross
 revenue)
Transportation
 and warehousing
Securities and other ÞnanceFast
 foodJPMorgan Chase (gross
 revenue)
Construction
Nationwide Ñ average
Telecommunications
Traditional
 ÞnanceManufacturing Retail
5.9%
4.7%
0.2%
NA2.3%
2.2%
0.6%
NA6.2%
NA1.7%
4.6%
18.5%
13.6%
10.5
 X4.6
 X2.8
 X1.4
 X3.6
 X2.4
 X2.3
 X2.3
 X3.6
 XNA2.0
 X1.0
 X1.3
 X2.4
 X4546Industry
Compensation/revenue
1% ofU.S.
 sales3Compensation/net income
2JPMorgan Chase 2009 
reported
 compensation/
revenue
 ratio
 is 27%, which 
reß ects
 revenue
 net of interest expense,
 unlike
 other industries.Compensation ratios
 by industry
 The industry
 compensation ratios
 in the table above
 reß
 ect
 2007
 information
 contained in U.S.
 Census
 Bureau
 data, Capital IQ Compustat
 records
 and company Þ lings
 and are
 based on revenue
 before
 deducting
 interest
 expense,
 whereas
 JPMorgan
 Chase
 and other Þ nancial services
 Þ rms
 report
 their compensation ratios
 based on revenue
 net of interest
 expense.
1995526_Ltr_r3
   19
95526_Ltr_r3   193/31/10
   3:21:38
 PM
3/31/10   3:21:38 PM20
multiple years and for helping to build 
enduring performance. 

(but not the only one) we use to pay our 

for risk; that is, the more capital a business 
uses, the more it is assessed a charge for 
that capital. 

dated trades or products over multiple years 
to properly re˝ect the risk. 
Try to be as 
conservative as possible regarding accounting 

we think doing so is inappropriate. 
Some of our other compensation principles go beyond what regulators have asked for but, we 
believe, are equally important. For example:

-ments, special executive retirement plans or 
golden parachutes, or special severance pack
-ages for senior executives. 

a merger, which we regard as part of the 

successful, compensation might go up.

alone do not represent a comprehensive 

-
skills; maintaining integrity and compliance; recruiting and training a diverse, outstanding 
workforce; building better systems; and 

fact, in our business, basing compensation 
solely on ˚nancial or quantitative measures, 
and ignoring qualitative measures, can be 
disastrous. 
Good performance in a particular 
year does not necessarily indicate that the 


boats so we take into account how much a 
strong market, as opposed to the initiative 
of the individual or group, contributed to 
the results. 

-sation, which is absolutely crucial to being 
a great company. 
While we aim to be a 
company that pays its employees well, it 
should be because we have been a well-
performing company. 

All of the policies described above have 
been e˛ective in this regard: 
Our employees 


i.e., of no value to the individual if he or she 
were to leave the company for a compet
-itor. 
Ownership does not guarantee that 
our employees will act like owners, but it 
certainly improves the odds.
How we pay individualsOur starting point when it comes to compensa
-
performance. 
We keep thousands of pro˚t-and-
loss statements (by branch, by trading desk, etc.). 
While we don™t maintain incentive compensa
-tion pools at such a granular level, we do have 
hundreds of such pools; we try to maintain a 
very disciplined approach to relate compensa
-tion as closely as possible to performance.
However, we do not stop there. 
We make 
about how the company is doing (in absolute 
and in competitive terms) and for very speci˚c 
business decisions, such as additions to sta˛ 
or large, new investments that a˛ect pro˚ts. 
In some cases, the impact of these sorts of discre
-tionary factors will be negligible. 
In other cases, the discretion we exercise may have a 

compensation pool. If we feel the pool amount 
was not earned, we do not pay it.
21Some individuals are paid incentive compen
-sation based on very speci˚c metrics; for 
example, people in our call centers, retail 
branches and operating centers. 
These metrics 
may be increased or reduced somewhat by 
the company™s performance. 
There also are 
a few senior people who are paid on speci˚c 
metrics. For example, bankers who manage 
money for our clients have their compensa
-
their clients. 
I think you would agree that this 
is completely appropriate.
Most of our senior people are not paid by 

performance and then apply a great deal of 

executive, the more the compensation should 
relate to the company™s performance overall. 
This is especially true for the leadership team 
of each business. 
When it comes to an individual, we look at his 
or her performance, the unit results and the 
overall performance of the company. 
Since 
we generally know these individuals well, we 
evaluate their performance over a multi-year 


-tions have generally proved themselves over 
many, many years. 
We also are keenly aware of our competi
-tion and know what it would take to replace 
a person if we had to hire someone new. 
We cannot operate in a vacuum.

-tion tightly tied to the company™s performance, 
and they also are evaluated on their leadership 
skills. 
In 2008, when the company™s earnings 

compensation was down 67% (this doesn™t 
include me; I received no year-end incentive).
We know there are people in this industry 
in some cases, overpaid. 
Some of these people have bene˚ted from pro˚ts that turned out 
to be ephemeral or were the result of exces
-sive leverage in the system. 
Some bene˚ted from extreme competition for their speci˚c 
talents, often from hedge funds and other 
such businesses. 
While no ˚rm can claim it gets compensation right every time, we at 
JPMorgan 
Chase do think we have generally 
been disciplined when it comes to our deci-sions. 
We believe we have the right compen
-sation practices, but that is only one part of 
building a great company. 
The most important part is developing great leaders. 
Developing leaders
Earlier in this section, 
I mentioned that my 
number one priority is to put a healthy and 
productive succession process in place. As 
I will be increasingly focused on this process, 
I would like to share my thoughts about the 
essential qualities a leader must have, particu
-larly as they relate to a large multinational 
corporation like JP
Morgan 
Chase.

obligation. 
When leaders make mistakes, a lot 
and avoiding self-deception are as important 
to a leader as having people to turn to for 
thoughtful, unbiased advice. 
I believe social 

EQ, matter in management. 
EQ can include empathy, clarity of thought, compassion and 
strength of character. 
Good people want to work for good leaders. 

good because they are corrosive to an organi
-
deceptive, it often is a challenge to ˚nd them 
and root them out. At many of the best companies throughout 
history, the constant creation of good leaders 


leader. 
While we cannot be great at all of these 

leader needs to get most of them right.22Discipline This means holding regular business reviews, 
talent reviews and team meetings and 
having a strong work ethic to making lists and 

like exercise; the e˛ect has to be sustained for 
it to do any good.
Fortitude
This attribute often is missing in leaders: They 
need to have a ˚erce resolve to act. 
It means driving change, ˚ghting bureaucracy and poli
-tics, and taking ownership and responsibility.
High standards

to those who wait – but only the things left 

standards of performance all the time, at a 
detailed level and with a real sense of urgency. 

best. Huge institutions have a tendency toward 
slowing things down, which demands that 
leaders push forward constantly. 
True leaders must set the highest standards of integrity business but require conscious choices. 
Such 
standards demand that we treat customers 
and employees the way we would want to be 
treated ourselves or the way we would want 
our own mother to be treated.Ability to face facts
In a cold-blooded, honest way, leaders empha
-
and focus on what can be improved (of course, 
it™s okay to celebrate the successes, too). All 
reporting must be accurate, and all relevant 
facts must be reported, with full disclosure and 
on one set of books.
Openness
we should debate the issues and alternative 
approaches, not the facts. 
The best leaders kill 

meetings after the real meeting because people wouldn™t speak their mind at the right time. 
Equally important, leaders get out in the ˚eld 
regularly so as not to lose touch. Anyone in a 
meeting should feel free to speak his or her mind without fear of o˛ending anyone else. 
 I once heard someone describe the importance 


everyone should be  a truth-teller.
Setup for success
An e˛ective leader makes sure all the right 

and Operations to Human Resources, Finance 
and Risk. It™s also necessary to set up the right 
structure. 
When tri-heads report to co-heads, 

failure, not success.
Morale-building
High morale is developed through ˚xing 
problems, dealing directly and honestly with 
issues, earning respect and winning. 
It does 
not come from overpaying people or deliv
-ering sweet talk, which permits the avoidance 
of hard decision making and fosters passive-
aggressive behaviors. 
Loyalty, meritocracy and teamwork
While I deeply believe in loyalty, it often is 

for which someone stands and to the institu
-

lot from their employees and should be loyal 


mean that a manager owes them a particular 

healthy, vibrant company; telling them the 
truth; and giving them meaningful work, 
training and opportunities. 
If employees fall 
down, we should get them the help they need. 
Meritocracy and teamwork also are critical but 
frequently misunderstood. Meritocracy means 

rather than the appearance of cynicism: ﬁHere 
Finally, while teamwork is important and often 
23
an individual™s ability to have the courage to 
stand alone and do the right thing.
Fair treatment
The best leaders treat all people properly and respectfully, from clerks to 
CEO
s. 
Everyone 
needs to help everyone else at the company 
because everyone™s collective purpose is to serve 
clients. 
When strong leaders consider promoting 
people, they pick those who are respected and 
ask themselves, 
Would I want to work for him? 
Would I want my kid to report to her?
Humility

before them and helped shape the enterprise 

luck involved in anyone™s success, and a little 
humility is important. The overall goal must 

can do more for our employees, our customers 
and our communities.
The grey area of leadershipThere are many aspects of the leadership 
process that are open for interpretation. 
This 
grey area contributes to the complexity of the 


I stand with regard to a few of these issues.
Successful leaders are hard to ˛nd
There are examples of individuals who have 
been thrust, wholly unprepared, into posi
-tions of leadership and actually perform well 

others. 
I would submit, however, that relying 
on luck is a risky proposition. 
History shows that bad or inexperienced leaders can produce 
disastrous results. 
While there are possibly innate and genetic parts of leadership (perhaps broad intelligence and natural energy), other 
parts are deeply embedded in the internal values of an individual; for example, work 

Many leaders have worked their entire lives to 
get where they are, and while perhaps some 
achieved their stature through accident or 
politics, that is not true for most. Anyone on a 
sports team, in government or in virtually any 
other endeavor knows when he or she encoun
-ters the rare combination of emotional skill, 
integrity and knowledge that makes a leader.
Successful leaders are working to build something
Most leaders I know are working to build 
something of which they can be proud. 
They 
usually work hard, not because they must 
but because they want to do so; they set high 
standards because as long as leaders are going to do something, they are going to do the best 
they can. 
They believe in things larger than 
themselves, and the highest obligation is to 

loyalty, not to themselves but to the cause for 
which they stand. 
Nonetheless, compensation does matter
While I agree that money should not be the 
primary motivation for leaders, it is not 
realistic to say that compensation should not 
count at any level. People have responsibili
-ties to themselves and to their families. 
They 
also have a deep sense of ﬁcompensation 

when they feel they are not fairly compen
-sated against peers both within and outside 
the company. 
There are markets for talent, 

reasonable price to compete.
Big business needs entrepreneurs, too
The popular perception is that entrepreneurs 
only in small companies and that entrepre-neurs in small companies should be free to 
pursue happiness or monetary gain as appro
-priate. Free enterprise, entrepreneurship and 
the pursuit of happiness also exist in most 
large enterprises. And you, our shareholders, 
should insist on it. 
Without the capacity to 
innovate, respond to new and rapidly changing 
markets, and anticipate enormous challenges, 
large companies would cease to exist. 
The 


they had built a successful start-up.
24Performance isn™t always easy to judge
Managers responsible for businesses must 
necessarily evaluate individuals along a spec
-trum of factors. 
Did these individuals act with integrity? Did they hire and train good people? 
Did they build the systems and products that 

current year but in future years? 
Did they 
develop real management teams? 
In essence, 
are they building something with sustainable, 
long-term value? 
Making these determinations Sometimes leaders should be supported and paid 
even when a unit does poorly
If a company™s largest, and perhaps most 
important, business unit is under enormous 
stress and strain, unlikely to earn money 
regardless of who is running it, a manager 


one that will take years to work through before 
the ship has been righted. When the manager asks a leader to take on the responsibility, 
she quite appropriately will want to know 
whether she will be supported in the toughest 

of people using my unit™s poor performance 

My answer to all of these questions would be 
yes. And as long as 
I thought she were doing 

best leaders, pro˚ts aside. 
Conversely, we all 
know that a rising tide lifts all boats. 
When that™s the case, paying that leader too much is 

it teaches people the wrong lesson.
Evaluating the CEO
The CEO should be held strictly accountable 
continually review the CEO™s performance 

alone should determine the compensation for 

meeting at JPMorgan 
Chase, the directors also 
have a private meeting without me. 
Compen-
review lots of data to evaluate the performance 
of the company, including reviewing competi
-tors™ performance and their compensation 

compensation consultants to make decisions 

determining how to compensate the CEO (and all of our senior management) is their respon-sibility and cannot be outsourced. In two of the last 10 years, 
I received no bonus, 
which 
I thought was absolutely appropriate. 
In 
to lay o˛ approximately 10,000 people, and 
I thought it completely inappropriate that I take 



too mediocre to contemplate a bonus for the 
CEO. Since we did pay many other people in 
those two years, we also lived by the principle 
that the CEO does not have to be the highest 
paid person in the company.
In all the years 
I™ve worked at this company, 
much of my compensation (approximately 
65%) has been in stock. 
I™ve never sold a share 
and do not intend to do so as long as I™m in this 

a lot of stock outright, not because 
I thought it 
was cheap (in fact, 
I thought it was overvalued) 
but because 
I wanted to be tethered tightly to 
the company and its performance. 
25We need rational policies based on facts and 
analysisThe recent ˚nancial crisis has caused great distress across the country and around the world, but it also has provided us with a path 
for going forward. 
The era of bailouts must end, and the oversight of system-wide risk 
must increase, among other changes. 
David 
Hume said, ﬁ
Reason is – slave of the passions 

of anger or populism, we™ll end up with the 
wrong solutions and put barriers in the way 
of future economic growth. Good policy and ˚nancial reform must be based on facts and 
analysis and need to be comprehensive, coordi
-nated, consistent and relevant.
As New York Times

Friedman noted earlier this year, ﬁ
We need a new banking regulatory regime that reduces recklessness without reducing risk-taking, 

this regulatory balance, the details matter. 
We 
simply more or less of it. The last thing we 
need is to enact new policies that over-regulate 
and work at cross-purposes without reducing 
system-wide risk. None of us can a˛ord the 
costs of unnecessary or bad regulation.While we acknowledge that making good 
decisions takes time, we think it is important 
to complete ˚nancial reform this year. 
The 
lack of regulatory clarity is creating problems 

-nesses need con˚dence and certainty to grow 

reforms will provide some of the certainty 
the business sector needs. 
With this in mind, 
I would like to discuss the critical lessons 
learned and how they are central to getting 
regulatory reform right.
The crisis had many causes
In my 2008 letter to shareholders, 
I discussed the fundamental causes and contributors to 
the ˚nancial crisis. 
I won™t repeat them in 
detail here, but, broadly speaking, they were 
as follows:

by bad mortgage underwriting, a somewhat 
unregulated mortgage business and some 
misguided government policies.

system, including banks, investment banks, 
hedge funds, consumers and the shadow 
banking system.the unanticipated damage they caused (the 
˝aws of money market funds and the repo 

capital markets.

rules that required too little capital and didn™t account for liquidity and relied too 
much on rating agencies; the 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission allowing U.S. invest
-ment banks to get too leveraged; and poor 
regulation of Fannie 
Mae and Freddie 
Mac, 
among many elements of an archaic, siloed 
regulatory system. However, we should not 
and do not blame regulators for the failures 

is solely to blame.
policies, actions and events (e.g., loan loss 
reserving, capital requirements and the 
market itself).
imbalances on interest rates, consumption 
and speculation levels.
 III. OUR SUPPORT OF FINANCIAL REFORM THAT WILL
   
STRENGTHEN THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
26
participants improperly used value-at-risk 
(Va
R) measurements; they did not run stress 
tests to be prepared for the possibility of a 
highly stressed environment; they excessively 
relied on rating agencies; they stretched too 
much for current earnings; and they didn™t 
react quickly when markets got bad. 
At JPMorgan 
Chase, we never overly relied on 
Va
R, and we regularly ran stress tests to make 
sure we were prepared for bad environments. 
Our goal was and is to remain pro˚table 
every quarter. 
While it is tempting to identify a scape-

was solely to blame and that no one should be 
completely absolved from blame. 
Yes, we made mistakes –
– and we have identi˚ed and described them 
in great detail in prior years™ chairman™s letters. 
Our two largest mistakes were making too 
many leveraged loans and lowering our mort
-gage underwriting standards. 
While our mort-gage underwriting was considerably better 
than many others™, we did underwrite some 
high loan-to-value mortgages based on stated, 
not veri˚ed, income. 
We accept complete responsibility for any and all mistakes we 
made or may have made.
There also are many mistakes that we did not 
make, among them: structured investment 
vehicles (
SIVs), extreme leverage, excessive 

debt obligations and improper management of 
our derivatives book.
Some of the mistakes we made may have 
contributed to the crisis. For those, of course, 

shareholders. 
However, it would be a huge 
stretch to say that these mistakes 
caused the crisis. 
In fact, at the height of the crisis, we 
aggressively took actions that we believed 
helped mitigate some of the fallout from the 

and WaMu and our interbank lending; that is, 
loans that banks make directly to each other).
Yes, we should thank the government for its 
extraordinary actions
As noted in last year™s letter, we think the 
government acted boldly and urgently in 
dealing with a complex and rapidly changing 
situation. Without many of these actions, we 
believe the outcome could have been much 
worse. A great number of the actions that the 
Treasury and the Federal 
Reserve took, directly 
and indirectly, bene˚ted a number of institu
-tions and may have saved many from failure 
and bankruptcy.
Without these actions, however, not all banks 
would have failed
The premise that all banks would have failed 
had it not been for the government™s actions 
is incorrect. This premise is behind much of 
the anger toward banks and some of the policy 
recommendations that are meant to punish banks. 
We should acknowledge that the worst 
o˛enders among ˚nancial companies no longer are in existence. And while it is true 
that some of the surviving banks would not, or 
might not, have survived, not all banks would 
have failed. 
I know I speak for a number of 
banks when I say that some of us accepted 
the Troubled Asset 
Relief Program (TARP) capital not because we needed it to survive but 
because we believed we were doing the right 
thing to help the country and the economy. 
We were told the government wanted even 
the healthy banks to take 
TARP to set an example for all banks and to make it easier for 
the weaker institutions to accept the capital 

and many other banks were in a position to try 
to help, and that is what we did.
27At the worst point in the crisis, we 
 aggressively provided credit 
Throughout the ˚nancial crisis, JP
Morgan 
Chase never posted a quarterly loss. 
We served 
as a safe haven for depositors, worked closely 
with the federal government and remained an 
active lender.
Our fortress balance sheet enabled us to buy 

billion in assets; then we acquired 
Washington 

Chase absorbed the stress of higher consumer and wholesale credit losses while maintaining high liquidity and acceptable growth in our capital. We acquired Washington Mutual just 10 days after

September 15, 2008, and, in order to maintain 
our fortress balance sheet, immediately sold 
$11.5 billion in common stock the following 

WaMu provided essential credit and support 
disastrous disruption that could have resulted 
from their failures. 
In the several months 

grew from almost nothing to as high as $70 billion, and our average lending was approxi
-mately $100 billion per month, even higher 
than it had been in the prior months. 
We also purchased, at one point, a net $250 billion of 
securities, which helped facilitate much-needed 
liquidity in the marketplace. 
We consistently maintained extremely 
 high capital levelsAs the chart below shows, we ended 2008 with 
Tier 1 Common Capital of 7.0% (the critical measure used by the Federal 
Reserve for its 
bank stress tests), and we ended 2009 with 
Tier 1 Common Capital of 8.8%. In May 2009, the 
U.S. government ran a stress 
test on 19 banks. 
The test assumed an adverse 


index across a two-year time span. 
Upon comple-tion of the test, the results required 10 banks 

Common 
Capital through the end of the stress 
scenarios. 
Under the government™s test, JP
Morgan 

in excess
the $25 billion of 
TARP capital we accepted was 
preferred stock and, therefore, never was part 
of this calculation). 
The bottom line is that we 
passed the stress test with ˝ying colors.
2Q20083Q20084Q20081Q20092Q20093Q20094Q20097.3%7.
7%8.2%8.8%5.06.07.08.04.03.02.01.09.0%7.
1%
6.8%
7.
0%Aug 08
Jul 08Sep 08Oct 08Nov 08Dec 08Jan 09Fe
b 09Mar 09Apr 09May 09Jun 09Jul 09Aug 09
Sep 09400600800$1,000900700500Flight to qualityReturn 
to normalcy
Quarterly capital levels
*  The Tier 1 Common ratio 
is Tier 1 Common Capital 
divided by risk-weighted 
assets. Tier 1 Common 
Capital is predominantly 
Tier 1 Capital less preferred 
equity, noncontrolling 
interests and trust preferred 
capital debt securities. Tier 1 
Common Capital is the ˜rst 
element of capital to absorb 
losses. See page 90 for 
further discussion.
 Stress test™s minimum
  4% Tier 1 Common
 Capital 
requirement
 Tier 1 Common*
 ratio
282Q20083Q20084Q20081Q20092Q20093Q20094Q20097.3%7.
7%8.2%8.8%5.06.07.08.04.03.02.01.09.0%7.
1%
6.8%
7.
0%Aug 08
Jul 08Sep 08Oct 08Nov 08Dec 08Jan 09Fe
b 09Mar 09Apr 09May 09Jun 09Jul 09Aug 09
Sep 09400600800$1,000900700500Flight to qualityReturn 
to normalcy
We kept our liquidity extremely high
As we entered the most tumultuous ˚nancial 
markets since the 
Great Depression, we expe
-
as deposits ˝owed in (in a two-month period, 

to do with it). At JP
Morgan 
Chase, our deposits 
always exceeded our loans; deposits always 
have been considered one of the safest sources 
of funding for a bank. 
The average bank has 
loans that are generally greater than 110% of 
its deposits. For JP
Morgan 
Chase, loans were 
approximately 75% of deposits. 
In fact, our 
excess deposits greatly reduced the need to 
˚nance ourselves in riskier wholesale markets. 
In the long-term wholesale unsecured markets, 

billion was borrowed unsecured in the short-


borrow in the secured markets, we do so under 
the assumption that we would have access to 
some, not all, of that funding in a crisis.
We always maintained excess liquidity at the 
bank holding company. 
We had and continue to 
have enough cash or cash equivalents on hand 
to fund ourselves for more than two years, even 
in the event that we are unable to borrow from 
the unsecured credit markets at all. 
We were prepared for things to get even worse
While the economic environment had become as bad as any of us had ever seen, we reluc
-tantly prepared for the situation to get worse, 
with a possible U.S. unemployment rate of 
15% or higher. 
Such an adverse environment 
would have required drastic actions: a large 
headcount reduction, elimination of marketing 
and other investments, and a decrease in 
lending to preserve capital. 
Steps like these 
would have saved more than $12 billion in 
expenses and created considerable additional 
capital. However, it also would have imposed 
deep hardship on many of our employees, 
suppliers and customers. Fortunately, we never 
had to execute such a drastic plan. 
This was 
precisely what the government was trying to 
avoid, and 
I believe its actions helped prevent 
many companies from taking steps like those 
mentioned above.
Government programs were a mixed blessing 
While we deeply appreciate the government™s 


were a mixed blessing.
In June 2009, we paid back the 
TARP capital in full. The $25 billion we borrowed for eight 
months cost us money, because we never were 
able to lend the $25 billion and earn a rate Average 
 monthly 
 deposits  (in billions)WaMu deposits
29higher than the 5% coupon we were paying on 
the preferred shares. 
In addition, we gave the 

a direct cost to our shareholders.
We did participate in the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) guarantee 
debt with an FDIC guarantee. 
Many banks that 
used this program would not have had access 
to the capital markets without this guarantee 
and possibly could have failed. For JP
Morgan 

to the extent we needed it, the markets always 

money. As part of this program, we have paid 
the FDIC $1.3 billion, and, after paying the 
FDIC, it will save us a signi˚cant amount of 
money over the next few years. 

accepting the TARP capital and for using 
the FDIC program. After April 1, 2009, even 
though we were eligible to continue using the 
FDIC program, we stopped using it. 
There were many other government programs (with 

believe were bene˚cial to the capital markets, 
but that we did not need and chose not to use, 
so as to avoid the stigma. (
We did use the 
Term Auction Facility (
TAF), a special government-
sponsored depository facility, but this was 
done at the request of the Federal 
Reserve to 
help motivate others to use the system.)
While no one knows what would have 
happened in the absence of all these govern
-ment programs, there is a strong argument 
that those that entered the crisis in a position of strength may have gathered huge bene˚ts 

hard to argue that this would have been good 
for the country. 
We did not anticipate the anger or backlash 
the acceptance of 
TARP capital would evoke 

but, even with hindsight, 
I think we would 
have had to accept 
TARP capital because doing 
so was in the best interest of the country. 
I do 
wish it would have been possible to distinguish 
between the healthy and unhealthy banks in 
a way that didn™t damage the success of the 

the public was left with the impression that all 

used the F
DIC
 guarantee because we didn™t 

all banks had been bailed out and fueled the 
anger directed toward banks.
The government runs the FDIC, but the banks 
pay for it 
While the FDIC is a government institution 
that insures bank deposits, our shareholders 
should know that the costs associated with failed banks are borne in full by the banks, 
not by taxpayers. 
We think this is completely appropriate. 
Even if the F
DIC™s special 
Tempo-had lost money, those losses would have been 
charged back to the surviving banks. 
There-fore, it is these surviving banks that have paid 
for the cost to the F
DIC of the approximately 
200 bank failures since the beginning of 2008.Of those failures, the largest one, 
WaMu (with assets exceeding $260 billion), has cost the 
FDIC nothing. 
That is because JP
Morgan 
Chase bought WaMu. All of the other banks that have 
failed were far smaller (the next largest failure 
was 
Indy
Mac, with $32 billion). All of these 
failures combined have cost the F
DIC an esti-mated $55 billion.
for 2008 and 2009, plus estimates for our 
share of assessments over the next three years, 
JPMorgan 
Chase alone will have given the 
FDIC a total of approximately $6 billion to 
cover the cost of failed banks.
30Banks are lending Š a little less but more 
responsibly
A great deal of media attention recently has focused on what it will take to get banks 
lending again. 
The reality is that banks never have stopped lending: As of the end 
of February 2010, according to the latest data 
from the regulatory reports, total loans held 

higher than at the end of June 2007 and more 
How is it that businesses and consumers clearly feel they have less access to bank credit 
while the banks claim they are still lending? 
This disconnect can be explained as follows: 
1. T
he ˝ow of non-bank lending, which has 
accounted for 65% of the credit supplied 
in the United States, dried up. 
Many non-
bank lenders (think of the shadow banking system, 
SIVs, the asset-backed commer
-
markets) virtually collapsed. 
These sources 
insurance companies, pension plans, and 

the credit they were providing to the system 
by nearly half a trillion dollars.

during the course of 2009, bank lending 
started to decline in total. While more than 100 banks, including JP
Morgan 
Chase, 
stepped up and acquired failing banks, 
they could not and did not fully replace the 
extension of credit the failing banks had 
been providing. For example, at JP
Morgan 
Chase, we did not continue the subprime 
lending and option-ARM mortgages that 
WaMu had been providing. 
3. M
any banks also tightened their loan stan
-dards, which further reduced new loans. 

decreased across large and small businesses. 
In fact, at JP
Morgan 
Chase alone, loans to 
large companies dropped (from $85 billion to $50 billion). This was not due to our 
reluctance to make the loans but rather 
to large companies taking advantage of 
the ability to ˚nance at lower rates in the 
reopened capital markets. 


got us into this mess in the ˚rst place. And, 
unfortunately, making good loans often 
means declining applications for loans that 
do not meet safe and sound lending criteria. 
While it may not seem obvious at the time, 
turning down an application that fails to 
meet these criteria actually may be in both 
our and our client™s best interest. 
We have a 
responsibility to lend only to those who can 
handle the debt. Unlike many other busi
-nesses, this puts us in the unpopular position 
of saying no to some of our customers.  
Banks are not ˜ghting regulation
We at JP
Morgan 
Chase and at other banks have 
consistently acknowledged the need for proper 
regulatory reform, and 
I also spoke about this 
topic in great detail in last year™s letter.

about the recent crisis is that most of the speci˚c problems associated with it (global trade imbalances, the housing bubble, exces
-sive leverage, money market funds, etc.) were 

no one, as far as 
I know, put together all of the 
factors and predicted the toxic combination it 

So what can we do to help ˚x the situa
-tion going forward? 
We must focus on the 
problem: bad risk management. This not only 
caused ˚nancial institutions to fail, but it also 
revealed fundamental ˝aws in the system 
itself. 
These ˝aws existed at both a macro level, 
where the interplay of the numerous critical 
factors was missed, and a micro level: for 
example, the failure to prevent A
IG
 from taking 
excessive, one-sided positions in trading deriva
-tives and the failure to limit mortgages to fami
-lies who could a˛ord them and to keep loan-to-
value ratios to a more reasonable 80%-90%.
31Over the last 50 years, we have allowed our 
regulatory system to become dangerously 
outdated. 
The structure is archaic and leaves 
huge gaps in the system. 
Today, in America, 
banks account for only one-third of the credit 
outstanding, with all kinds of non-banks taking 
and trading risks and providing credit to the 
system. So the idea that banking is con˚ned 
to deposit-holding entities is inaccurate and 
deceptive. 
The failure of so many ˚rms in 


WaMu to Fannie 
Mae, Freddie 
Mac and A
IG, 

regulation needs to be administered by product 
and economic substance, not by legal entity. 
We have a chance to simplify and strengthen our 
regulatory system, and, if we do it right, it will 
not only be able to handle the complex chal
-lenges we face today but will be able to do so in 
a way that will be ˝exible enough to continu
-ously adapt to our changing world.
We support a systemic regulator 
Going forward, we will need a systemic regu
-lator charged with e˛ectively monitoring the 
spread and level of risk across the ˚nancial 
system in its entirety. 
Think of it as a ﬁsuper 

-inate all future problems, but it would be able to 

some of the problems, it might have stopped the crisis 
from getting this bad. 
Congress appears to be 

and we hope it succeeds.
Some issues the systemic risk regulator should keep in mind are the following: 

should not be a political process. 
It should function like a strong risk management 
committee. 

For example, mortgages were regulated 
by multiple entities, some of which did a 

as even good companies started to do bad 
things to maintain market share.

and other elements of the consumer-˚nance 
system to ensure that when new rules are written, they create a sound, safe, e˛ective 
and consumer-friendly mortgage market.

often are the source of many problems.

as enhanced money market funds and 
SIVs.

and potential excesses, or bubbles. 
It may be 
hard to detect bubbles, and it may be inadvis
-able, once detected, to exert a direct in˝u
-ence on them with macro economic policy. 

the collateral damage bubbles can cause. 
It also would be appropriate to try to manage 
bubbles, not by using monetary policy but by 
restricting credit on speci˚c markets (i.e., it 
would have been appropriate to ask lenders 
to reduce loan-to-value ratios in mortgages 
markets by reducing the leverage used in the 
repo markets). 

the broader economy (˚scal de˚cits, trade 
imbalances, structural state budget de˚cits) 
and forcing policy bodies to anticipate the 
problems that may result.

compete on a level playing ˚eld but also 
because crises don™t stop at national borders. 

regulator could help ˚x the ˝aws in our regu-latory framework and create a system that 
continually adapts and improves itself.
32We support an enhanced resolution 
authority Š and the elimination of 
 ﬁtoo big to failﬂ
Even if we achieve the primary goal of regu
-lating ˚nancial ˚rms to prevent them from 
failing, we still have to get government out of 
the business of rescuing poorly managed ˚rms. 
All ˚rms should be allowed to fail no matter 
how big or interconnected they are to other 
˚rms. 
That™s why we at JP
Morgan 
Chase have 
argued for an enhanced resolution authority 
that would let regulators wind down failing 

damage to the economy and will never cost the 

problem alone would go a long way toward 
solving many of the issues at the heart of the 
crisis. Just giving regulators this authority, in 
and of itself, would reduce the likelihood of 
failure as managements and boards would 

-
of such a system would be as follows:

inability to ˚nance itself. 
court) should be able to terminate manage-ments and boards.
should be wiped out when a 


and to protect the resolution fund.parts of the company as it sees ˚t.
should recover money 

bankruptcy. (
In fact, the resolution authority 
should keep a signi˚cant amount of the 
recovery to pay for its e˛orts and to fund 
future resolutions.) 

treated like they are treated in a bankruptcy.

by the ˚nancial industry (like the F
DIC is today).

with the exact same rules.
 
-nies have enough equity and unsecured debt 
to prevent the resolution fund from ever 
running out of money. 
To give an example, 

also had $128 billion in unsecured debt. A 
resolution regulator, in my opinion, would 

its obligations, wind it down and/or sell it o˛ 
and still have plenty of money left over to 
return some money to the unsecured credi
-tors. 
Had this been done wisely, the economy 
would have been better o˛.

about the ˚nancial, legal and tax structures 
of that ˚rm to allow regulators, cooperating 
across international boundaries, to wind it 

should pay for the resolution (i.e., banks), there 
are some technical issues about how it should 
be funded. 
The resolution regulator does need 
to be able to fund these companies while they 
are being wound down, and there are plenty of 
appropriate ways to accomplish this.
Once it is established that any ˚rm can fail, 

to thrive. 
It is wrong to assume that big ˚rms 
the sake of being big, but scale can create value 
for shareholders and for consumers who are 
bene˚ciaries of better products that are deliv-ered more quickly and less expensively. 
These bene˚ts extend beyond individuals to include 
businesses that are bank clients, particularly 
those that are global in scale and reach, and 
the economy as a whole. 
33
-sity enabled them to withstand the crisis and emerge from it as stronger ˚rms. 
This strength, in turn, made it possible for many 
˚rms to acquire weaker ˚rms at the govern
-ment™s request and help to alleviate potential 
damage to the economy.
Closing comments on regulation
While we support the general principles 
behind enhanced regulation of derivatives, 
-tions, we do not support each and every part 
of what is being recommended. The devil is in the details, and it is critical that the reforms 
actually provide the important safeguards 
without unnecessarily disrupting the health of the overall ˚nancial system.
We also believe there are some serious ideas 
that need attention if the system is to be made more fail-safe: 
monitored and controlled. pro-cyclical.
both originators and distributors have skin 
in the game.

 
voting rights without owning and being 
exposed to the risks of owning the under
-lying securities should be extremely limited. 
Investors should not have the ability to vote 
the capital securities actually owned if the investors are voting for the failure of the 
company and stand to gain more on their 
short positions than on their long positions.


During the past year™s discussion among regu
-lators and legislators, many other ideas have 
Volcker 
Rule to new bank taxes to changes in 

stages of development and are too unde˚ned 
to comment on here. 
What we would urge our 
regulators and legislators to do is proceed with clarity and purpose and avoid broadly penal
-
they were reckless or prudent.
34As we grapple with the enormity of the issues 
facing the nation, we must not lose sight 
of our strengths. America has successfully 
brought these strengths to bear on crises in 
do so again.
America™s success as a nation requires a strong 
and growing economy. A strong and growing 
economy requires the right kind of govern
-ment policies and a private sector that is 
innovative as well as responsible. 
Responsible 
in a global economy, it behooves America to 
have large multinational companies that are 
operating on a global stage. 
Creating a culture that ties it all together requires a greater sense of shared responsibility. 

 it is something we always must work hard 
 to achieve. 
The need for a strong economy and good 
government
America™s success depends upon many 
things, including good government (and the 

cannot succeed without a healthy and vibrant 
economy. 
That is what allows us to share the rewards of success, defend our nation, educate 
our children and build a better future.
A strong U.S. economy, one with the ability to 
continually improve and reform itself, depends 

and we cannot let it drain the energy, talent, 

or those we encourage through our example, 
many of whom come to work and innovate 
in America. 
To thrive, our country and our 
economy need:


-ment of the rule of law.

American economy and the global competi
-tiveness of 
U.S. companies.


essential ingredient of our success as a nation.
protects investors and the public.
highways and bridges to electrical grids, etc.).

growth and rules that foster 
U.S. capital  accumulation.
those that inadvertently make it harder to hire.
Countries can have di˛erent social values 

-


-taining a strong economy.
Healthy and growing countries can do 
wonderful things for their people. And coun
-tries that fail to create healthy economies 
frequently relegate their people to increasing 
levels of pain and su˛ering. 
Many countries 
have professed wanting to help their people 
but, instead, have damaged their countries and 
hurt their people. 
Maybe the intentions were 
real, but, even if they were, the road to hell is 
often paved with good intentions.

to be successfully using pro-growth poli-cies to expand its economy while using the 
wealth from that economic growth to ˚nance 
important social programs. 
Over the last 20 

dramatically strengthened its economy. 
It 
businesses, improved the rule of law, left the 
bulk of capital allocation to the private capital 
markets and developed world-class companies. 
 IV.
 OUR RESPONSIBILITY AND AMERICA™S SUCCESS
35
president, but he continued policies to 
strengthen the economy. 
He also used some 


-nations, education and $80 a month for food.
The lesson is clear: Good policies and economic growth are not the enemy of social 

Businesses need to be responsible Š and 
healthy and vibrant
At JPMorgan 
Chase, we feel a deep respon
-sibility to build a company that bene˚ts our 
customers, our employees, our shareholders and 
the communities in which we operate around 
the world. 
The best companies don™t make deci
-sions for short-term pro˚ts. 
Contrary to public 
opinion, corporations are not in business solely 

serve clients and earn their trust over a long 
period of time and, in so doing, earn a fair pro˚t. 
Pro˚ts in any one year, in e˛ect, are a re˝ection 
of decisions that may go back decades.
We always have been deeply committed to 
the following practices:

the respect they deserve.

practices.
creating real value for shareholders.

 one that stands the test of time.
philanthropic endeavors in supporting 
 our communities. 

natural part of doing business), ˚xing them 
and learning from them.

tax payments. JP
Morgan 
Chase, on average, 
pays more than $12 billion a year in taxes to 
governments around the world.

the future, provides opportunities to employees, 
builds better products for customers and serves 
communities. 
Companies that are not healthy 
and vibrant cannot do these things.
Businesses Š small to large Š are one of 
America™s key strengths
A healthy business sector is fundamental to 
our economic strength: Of the 130 million people who go to work every day in the 
United States, nearly 110 million are employed by 
private businesses. 
These private businesses 
are and always have been the nation™s primary 

The strength of the business sector is rooted 
in its diversity, from the smallest start-up or 
family-owned ˚rm to the largest multina-tional corporation. 
Indeed, the relationship between larger and 
smaller businesses is symbiotic. 
Studies show 
-
that provide supporting goods and services. At 
JPMorgan 
Chase, in particular, we spend more 
than $15 billion per year with approximately 

of employees.
We need global ˚agship companies Š 
including banks


but the fact is that some businesses require 
take extraordinary risks and provide vital 
support globally. America™s largest companies 
operate around the world and employ millions 
of people. 
This includes companies that can 

as many as 50 to 100 countries to assure Amer
-36ica™s long-term success. 
Combined, big and 
small businesses spend $1.5 trillion per year 
on capital expenditures and $300 billion on 
research and development. 
It is estimated that more than 70% of the capital expenditures are 
made by large companies.
The productivity of our workers and the huge 
economies of scale of our corporations (gener-ated from years of investing and innovating) 
are what ultimately drive our economy and 
income growth. Employees at large companies 
share in that productivity: Compensation and bene˚ts for employees at large companies are 
substantially higher than at small ˚rms.* 
It is estimated that large enterprises and large foreign multinationals active in the 
United 
productivity growth since 1995.
-pillar, Apple, 
Microsoft and Google are exem
-plars of initiative and innovation worldwide. 
Cutting-edge companies like 
Hewlett-Packard 
underpin vibrant networks of small and mid-

shows that these investments abroad actually 


above need banking partners with large 
enough balance sheets to ˚nance transactions 
-tional corporations that rely on such scale: 
States and municipalities also depend on the capital that a ˚rm like JP
Morgan 
Chase can provide. 
To be sure, smaller banks play a 
vital role in our nation™s economy but cannot 
always provide the type of service, capital, 
breadth of products and speed of execution 
that clients need. Only large banks have the 
scale and resources to connect markets around 

South Africa and 
Russia; to execute diverse 
and large-scale transactions; to o˛er a range of products and services, from loan underwriting 
and risk management to local lines of credit; to process terabytes of ˚nancial data; and to 
provide ˚nancing in the billions.
U.S. banks actually are less consolidated than 
those in the rest of the world, and our ˚nancial 
system is less dominated by large banks than 
that of almost any other nation. For example, in 


among Organisation for 
Economic Co-operation 


OECD nations was more than double, at 69%. 
Not only is our banking system not particu-larly concentrated, but our large banks are not 



many examples of countries with large, consoli
-dated banking systems that did not have prob
-lems at all (e.g., 
Canada).
won™t change the needs of big business. 
Instead, 
it will force these companies to turn to foreign 
banks that won™t face the same restrictions. 

-sity were essential to withstanding the ˚nancial 
crisis in 2008 and emerging as a stronger ˚rm.Everyone needs to be responsible
America was built on the principles of rugged 
individualism and self-responsibility. 
We need 
to continue to foster a sense of responsibility in 


to cultivate an environment where consumers, 
lenders, borrowers, businesses and investors all 
take responsibility for their actions and don™t 
look for someone else to blame. 
We have to stop 
slipping into a cacophony of ˚nger-pointing 
and blame. And while bad actors always should 
be punished, we also should note that not all 
who got into trouble were irresponsible. 
We fully acknowledge, for example, that many indi
-viduals found themselves in a di˜cult position 
that was caused by a medical condition or loss 
of employment beyond their control, and they 
should be treated fairly and respectfully.
The crisis of the past couple of years has had 
far-reaching consequences, among them the 
declining public image of banks and bankers. 
*  The U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics shows that 
employees of large ˜rms (with 
500 or more employees) have 
average hourly earnings ($25/
hour, including wages and 
salaries) 46% higher than 
employees of small ˜rms (with 
fewer than 50 employees). 
Similarly, large ˜rms provide 
88% of their employees access 
to medical bene˜ts compared 
with 55% at small ˜rms.
37While JPMorgan 
Chase certainly made its share of mistakes in this tumultuous time, 
our ˚rm always has remained focused on the 
fundamentals of banking and the part we can 
play to support our clients and communities. 
Our 220,000 people go to work every day to do 


our people, customers, operations and share
-
are part of the everyday life of 
Main Street, in 
virtually every part of the country. And they 
are active and contributing members of society 
in communities around the world.
Very often, when the public or politicians 
take punitive e˛orts against banks like ours, 
they think they are punishing only the senior 
management team, when, in fact, they are 
punishing ordinary shareholders as well. 
Contrary to popular perception, 
Main Street 
owns our biggest banks and corporations 
through savings and retirement funds. 
Our 
shareholders represent a true cross section of 
America, including teachers, retirees and public 
employees. 
When we reduce the debate over 
responsibility and regulation to simplistic and 
inaccurate notions, such as 
Main Street vs. 
Wall 
Street, big business vs. small business or big 
banks vs. small banks, we are indiscriminately 



or all of the business community, we are deni
-grating ourselves and much of what made this 
country successful. We also should refrain from 
indiscriminate blame of any whole group of 
people, including politicians or the media. 
We need to focus a bit less on daily media and polls 
and more on the books that will be written after 
this crisis subsides. 
We all should ask ourselves 
whether we, in a time of stress, did the right 
things the right way for the right reasons.
Conclusion
The United States faces many challenges. 
In the short run, overcoming this economic crisis 
and getting our unemployed back to work 
are most important. In the long run, we must 
confront our health and education systems; develop a real, substantive energy policy; 
and build the infrastructure for the future. 
We also must confront the large U.S. de˚cit, 
being honest about the facts and being ˚scally 
wait for the global markets to pressure us into 
that discipline. 
These are all serious challenges, 
but, if we work together, we can ˚x them.
Your company continues to do everything it 
can, in every community in which we work, to 
help the world recover as quickly as possible. 
In 2009, as they have so many times before, 
our people rose to the challenge, working amid 
tremendous uncertainty in a fragile economic and political environment. They also have 
coped with the anger directed toward the 
˚nancial services industry. 
Through it all, they 
did not lose focus on why we are all here: to 
serve clients and, therefore, our communi
-ties around the world. 
On behalf of JPMorgan 
Chase and its management and shareholders, 
 I express my deepest gratitude to our people. 
 I am proud to be their partner.
 Jamie 
Dimon Chairman and Chief Executive 
O˜cerMarch 26, 2010 
38Investment Bank
J.P. Morgan is a leading 
global investment bank 
with one of the largest 
 client bases in the world. 
We serve more than 20,000 
clients, including corpo
-rations, governments, 
states, municipalities, healthcare organizations, 
educational institutions, banks and investors. Our 
clients operate in more 
than 100 countries. We 
o˜er a complete range 
of ˚nancial services to 
help clients achieve their 
goals. We provide strate
-gic advice, lend money, 
raise capital, help manage 
risk, make markets and 
extend liquidity, and we 
hold global leadership 
 positions in all of our major business lines.         
 2009 HIGHLIGHTS AND 
ACCOMPLIS
HMENTS




 



 











of average allocated capital.  







clients globally.
(a) The average size of loans led 







than double the market™s average size of 
 




bank in the world.
(a) 





markets, respectively.
(a) 

deals, J.P. Morgan was a lead underwriter on 
 eight of the 10 largest transactions in both the 
equity and debt markets.  



 for banks and ˚nancial institutions around 
 

 

banking system to health.
(a)



 to orderly and well-functioning markets, and support global economic 
growth. One of the most important functions we serve is extending 
credit to companies to help them grow.  
Average corporate loan size: 
 J.P. Morgan deals vs. industry average
(a)  (in millions)0100200300400500600700800010020030040050060070
0800316691J.
P.
 Morgan
Industry
 Av
erage010020030040050060070
0$800$316  $691J.
P.
 Morga
nIndustry
 Av
erage119%
J.P. Morgan helped raise $102 billion for governments, 
 public sector organizations and institutions
 








   
governments
(a) Dealogic0100200300400
5006007008000100200300400500600700800316691J.P. MorganIndustry Average0100200300400500600700$800$316  $691J.P. MorganIndustry Average



-tions globally, more than any other bank.
(a)  In fact, J.P. Morgan acted as advisor on 11 of 
 

(a), including advising 
on the year™s largest deal, P˚zer™s acquisition 
 of Wyeth, and serving as sole advisor to 
 



 



deals, more than any other bank.
(a)







for state and local governments, healthcare 
organizations and educational institutions, to 
help build local infrastructure, improve social 
services, expand universities and hospitals, and 
fund medical research. In addition, committed 
to provide ˚nancing urgently needed to fund 







 








state of New Jersey. 
  



 


as well as in environmentally responsible 
 




 

 developing emission reduction credits.
 39Retail Financial Services



serves consumers and 
 businesses through per
-sonal service at branches, 



mobile and telephone banking, and through retail 
mortgage correspondents, 
auto dealerships and school 
˚nancial aid o˝ces. 
Customers can use more 


(third largest nationally) and 




nationally), as well as online 
and mobile banking around 


personal bankers and 
specialists assist customers 
with checking and savings 
 accounts, mortgages, 
 business loans and invest
-


footprint from New York 
and Florida to California. 
Consumers also can obtain 
loans through more than 



nearly 2,100 schools and 
universities nationwide. 
 2009 HIGHLIGHTS AND 
ACCOMPLIS
HMENTS








 


branches and rebranding them Chase.





 bankers, investment specialists and mortgage of
-˚cers in bank branches to serve customers better.  










 





 


























eliminating envelopes and providing images of 
deposited checks on the screen and on receipts. 


 by adding iPhone applications.




 




 to help families to lower their payments 
 by re˚nancing or to purchase a home.



 modi˚cations in an unprecedented 
 initiative to help struggling homeowners 
 stay in their homes. 



 



 

reach-out events.




 



maintaining disciplined underwriting.
Our bankers work with consumers and small business owners to meet 
everyday ˚nancial needs and to pursue lifetime dreams. They can use an 










 a business expansion or college, and invest for a well-earned retirement.







Chase has expanded its network from 540 branches in four states in early 2004 to more than 5,100 
branches in 23 states by the end of 2009 to serve customers better
40Card Services

nation™s largest credit card 
issuers, with more than 
 


 


billion in managed loans. Customers used Chase cards 


 billion of their spending 

Chase continues to innovate 
despite a very di˝cult busi
-ness environment, launching 
new products and services, 
such as Blueprint

Rewards


 and Ink from Chase, and 
earning a market leadership 
position in building loyalty 
 and rewards programs. 
Through its merchant 
 acquiring business, Chase 

 Chase is one of the leading 
processors of credit card 
payments.
 2009 HIGHLIGHTS AND 
ACCOMPLIS
HMENTS





 and private label credit card accounts.


, an innovative feature 
that allows customers to have more control 
of their spending and borrowing. Blueprint
  is designed to help customers pay down 
 balances, manage everyday spending and 
 pay o˜ major purchases.



 
, a new rewards 
 platform for Chase™s proprietary credit 
 cards Š designed to attract new customers 
and further engage current cardmembers. 



, a new rewards 
product designed for a˙uent cardholders.

 from Chase, a new product 
suite of cards for small business owners.



Washington Mutual credit card portfolio to the 
Chase platform.



customer satisfaction, and systems and 
 infrastructure.



 

We deliver products and services that meet both the spending 
 







Chase brand, we are one of the largest issuers of co-brand credit 
cards, partnering with many of the world™s most prominent brands.
End-of-period outstandings market share
 of general purpose credit cards*
Market Shareby charge volume14
Market Shareby outstanding loans161820%2005200620072008200920.7
%20.4%19
.7
%20.2%19
.6%
14
1516%15.1%
15.3%15.6%
16.5%15.2%20052006200720082009Sales volume market share 
 of general purpose credit cards*
 Market Shareby charge volume14
Market Shareby outstanding loans161820%2005200620072008200920.7
%20.4%19
.7
%20.2%19
.6%
14
1516%15.1%
15.3%15.6%
16.5%15.2%20052006200720082009* Source: Earnings releases; internal reporting, excluding 
the Washington Mutual and private label portfolios
41Commercial BankingCommercial Banking 
 


 nationally, including 
 corporations, municipalities, 
˚nancial institutions and not-for-pro˚t entities with 
annual revenue generally 


 
 




 industry knowledge, local 
expertise and dedicated 
service, Commercial 
 Banking partners with 
 the ˚rm™s other businesses 
to provide comprehensive 
solutions, including lending, 
treasury services, invest
-ment banking and asset 
management, to meet its 
clients™ domestic and inter
-national ˚nancial needs. 2009 HIGHLIGHTS AND 
ACCOMPLIS
HMENTS



in market penetration and lead share.
(a)

(b)

based lead left arranger.
(c)



 investment banking fees.




 





 



focus on expense management.










 



 relationships.




 

bankers delivering complete lending and 
 treasury solutions.



discipline with an allowance coverage ratio of 










loan ratio in our peer group.









 







 


(d)


 Washington Mutual clients™ commercial 
 accounts onto Chase platforms.





-






companies, educational institutions and not-
for-pro˚t organizations.
(a) Greenwich Associates, 
 Full Year 2009
(b) FDIC, September 2009
(c)
 Loan Pricing Corporation, 
 Full Year 2009
(d) Greenwich Associates, 2009







the world, we are a stable and dependable local banking partner 
with access to global ˚nancial solutions. Our bankers build long-term 
relationships to help our clients succeed by supporting their lending, 
treasury, investment banking and asset management needs.
Commercial Banking serves nearly 25,000 clients 
in 26 states across the country
38%28
%24
%10%



Nearly $8 billion in new ˜nancing has been extended 
to help support our communities

Not-for-pro˚ts

Governments
38%28%24%10%42Treasury & Securities Services
J.P. Morgan™s Treasury & 
 
a global leader in transaction, 
investment and information 
services. We are one of the 
world™s largest cash manage
-ment providers, processing 
a market-leading average 


transfers daily, as well as a 
leading global custodian with 

custody. We operate through 
two divisions: 
Treasury Services
 provides 
cash management, trade, 
wholesale card and liquid
-ity products and services to 
small- and mid-sized compa
-nies, multinational corpora
-tions, ˚nancial institutions and government entities. 
Worldwide Securities Services
 holds, values, clears and 
services securities, cash and 
alternative investments for 
investors and broker-dealers 
and manages depositary 
receipt programs globally.
 2009 HIGHLIGHTS AND 
ACCOMPLIS
HMENTS






following key business drivers: international 













 














Manager of the Year (
Global Pensions
), Best 



HFMWeek
), 
Pension Fund Custodian of the Year (
ICFA 







ICFA 




Bank (The Asset
), Best Overall Bank for Cash 


Global Finance
), 


The Asset
), 



Paci˚c (
Asiamoney
) and many others.


















toward implementing a prepaid card program 




We actively work with clients on a global basis to fully 
optimize their working capital, manage their collateral 
 and help mitigate their risk e˜ectively.
New o˝ces
New services

We expanded our global footprint to better serve clients around the world























including access to more than 100 clients and 



strengthening our position as one of the leading 
providers of third-party custodial services in the 





















for delivering the ˚rm™s integrated prime 
brokerage and custody platform to clients.













and three of the ˚ve largest IPOs of the year, 
including landmark deals from both Brazil 
and China.
43Treasury & Securities Services
New services

Asset Management
assets under supervision 

leader in investment and 
wealth management.


include institutions, retail 
investors and high-net-
worth individuals in every 
major market throughout 

-ment o˜ers its clients global 
investment management in 
equities, ˚xed income, real 
estate, hedge funds, private 
equity and liquidity, includ
-ing money market instru
-ments and bank deposits. 

provides trust and estate, 
banking and brokerage 
services to high-net-worth 
clients and retirement 
services to corporations and 
individuals. The majority 
 
client assets are in actively 
managed portfolios.
 2009 HIGHLIGHTS AND 
ACCOMPLIS
HMENTS
















global liquidity assets on behalf of clients. 
 







Fund became the largest mutual fund in 
 








 







 Private Bank led by strong brokerage activity 
 as we put timely, innovative investment 
 opportunities to work for clients. 



returns. The percentage of global long-term 
mutual fund assets under management in the 
















˛ows as retail investors sought the stability 
 and performance of J.P. Morgan Funds. 








investment performance over ˚ve-year period.
(a)













throughout the world on behalf of Private Bank 
˚duciary clients. 
Euromoney
 rated the Private Bank as the top 
private bank for ultra-high-net-worth clients 
globally.













& Investment Co., was named the best overall 
performing foreign asset manager operating in 
China by a PricewaterhouseCoopers survey. 








seventh year in a row from leading publishing 
house Incisive Media.










The Asset 
magazine.


 


clients experienced the best investment 
 







client assets under management have grown 
threefold. 
Our business has been built upon our core principle of putting our 
clients™ interests ˚rst. Inherent in that commitment is a ˚duciary 
responsibility of successfully managing our clients™ assets Š which 
 is the foundation of what we do Š every minute of every day. 
050010001500200005001,0001,500$2,000$1,149
$1,347$1,572$1,4
96$1,7
0105001,0001,500$2,000$1,149$1,347$1,572$1,496
$1,7
0120092008200720062005Assets under supervision
 (in billions) (a) Barron™s
44Corporate Responsibility



-rate responsibility is about 
what we do every day in 
our businesses and how we 
do it. We are committed to 
managing our businesses 
 to create value for our 
 consumer, small business 
and corporate clients, as 
well as our shareholders, 
communities and employ
-ees, and to being a respon
-sible corporate citizen.
 2009 HIGHLIGHTS AND 
ACCOMPLIS
HMENTS




moderate-income families and communities in 






 also earned the highest possible rating 
 of Outstanding in our latest Community 
 


 



for the construction or preservation of more 



made investments in low-income communities 
through our New Markets Tax Credits. 
 Recognized leader in supporting community 
development ˚nancial institutions. 





through our principal investment and place
-ments activity in the micro˚nance sector, 
 through our research on micro˚nance issues, 
and as a founding sponsor of the Global Impact 
 


 to Grameen Foundation™s Bankers without 
 Borders®, an innovative program bringing 
 private sector talent to the micro˚nance sector.





Chase Community Giving, engaging more than 
 2 million Facebook users in helping to direct 







in high-need neighborhoods across the globe 
while supporting thousands of not-for-pro˚ts 
charged with strengthening the communities we 
serve. Multiplied the impact of our philanthropic 
investments through active partnership with 
employee volunteers, community leaders, and 
other private and public funders.








Bought 100,000 carbon credits to o˜set emis
-sions from employee air travel. Increased num
-ber of branches built to smart and responsible 




-



increased procurement of paper from certi˚ed 









eliminate paper statements across the ˚rm.  



to determine and, where possible, mitigate 
adverse environmental and social impacts.


spend with diverse suppliers despite a 
 reduction in ˚rmwide spend.
We do our best to manage and operate our company with a 
consistent set of business principles and core values. First 
 and foremost, this means always trying to do the right thing.
2009 charitable contributions*
 


Community
 development

 programs
Other* Percentages include charitable giving from 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the JPMorgan Chase Foundation
010020030040050060070
0$8000100200300400500600700800Community Development 42%Ar
ts & Culture 16%Education 26%Employee Pr
ograms 4%Other 13%42
%26
%16%12%4%
$70
$154$241
$335$504$573200920082007
200620052004First six years of cumulative spend of our 10-year, 
$800 billion commitment to invest in low- and 
moderate-income families and communities
  (in billions)0100200300400500600700$8000100200300400500600700800Community Development 42%Arts & Culture 16%Education 26%Employee Programs 4%Other 13%42%26%16%12%4%$70$154$241$335$504$573200920082007200620052004
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  45
 Financial:  
46  Five-Year Summary of Consolidated Financial High
lights  
47  Five-Year Stock Performance  
Management™s discussion and analysis: 
 47  Introduction  
49  Executive Overview  

53  Consolidated Results of Operations  

58  Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm™s Use of  
 Non-GAAP Financial Measures  
61  Business Segment Results  

84  Balance Sheet Analysis  

86  OffŒBalance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Cash 
 Obligations  
90  Capital Management  

94  Risk Management  

96  Liquidity Risk Management  

101  Credit Risk Management  
126  Market Risk Management  
132  Private Equity Risk Management  

133  Operational Risk Management  

134  Reputation and Fiduciary Risk Management  
135  Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm  
140  Accounting and Reporting Developments  

142  Nonexchange-Traded Commodity Derivative Contracts at 
 Fair Value  
143  Forward-Looking Statements  
 Audited financial statements:  
144 Management™s Report on Internal Control  
 Over Financial Reporting  
145 Report of Independent Registered Public 
 Accounting Firm  
146  Consolidated Financial Statements  
150  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
Supplementary information:  
249 Selected Quarterly Financial Data  

250 Selected Annual Financial Data  
251 Glossary of Terms 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 46
  (unaudited)  
(in millions, except per share, headcount and ratio data)  

As of or for the year ended December 31,  
 2009 
2008(d) 
 2007 
 2006 
 2005 
Selected income statement data  
  Total net revenue  
 $  100,434 
 $  67,252 
 $  71,372 
 $  61,999  
 $  
54,248 
 Total noninterest expense  
  52,352 
  43,500 
  41,703 
  38,843  
 38,926 
 Pre-provision profit (a) 
  48,082 
  23,752 
  29,669 
  23,156  
 15,322 
 Provision for credit losses  
  32,015 
  19,445 
  6,864 
  3,270  
 3,483 
 Provision for credit losses Œ accounting conformity (b) 
  Š 
  1,534 
  Š 
  Š  
 Š Income from continuing operations before income tax  
   expense/(benefit) 
  16,067 
  2,773 
  22,805 
  19,886  
 11,839 
 Income tax expense/(benefit) 
  4,415 
  (926) 
  7,440 
  6,237  
 3,585 
 Income from continuing operations  
  11,652 
  3,699 
  15,365 
  13,649  
 8,254 
 Income from discontinued operations (c)  
  Š 
  Š 
  Š 
  795  
 229 
 Income before extraordinary gain 
  11,652 
  3,699 
  15,365 
  14,444  
 8,483 
 Extraordinary gain (d) 
  76 
  1,906 
  Š 
  Š  
 Š Net income 
  $  11,728 
 $  5,605 
 $  15,365 
 $  14,444  
 $ 
 8,483 
 Per common share data
   
Basic earnings (e)  
  
   Income from continuing operations  
 $  2.25 
 $  0.81 
 $  4.38 
 $  3.83  
 $  
2.30 
    Net income  
  2.27 
  1.35 
  4.38 
  4.05  
 2.37 
 Diluted earnings (e)(f) 
  
   Income from continuing operations  
 $  2.24 
 $  0.81 
 $  4.33 
 $  3.78  
 $  
2.29 
    Net income  
  2.26 
  1.35 
  4.33 
  4.00  
 2.35 
 Cash dividends declared per share  
  0.20 
  1.52 
  1.48 
  1.36  
 1.36 
 Book value per share  
  39.88 
  36.15 
  36.59 
  33.45  
 30.71 
 Common shares outstanding 
   
Average: Basic (e)  
  3,862.8 
  3,501.1 
  3,403.6  
  3,470.1 
 3,491.7 
 Diluted (e) 
  3,879.7 
  3,521.8 
  3,445.3 
  3,516.1 
 3,511.9 
Common shares at period-end 
  3,942.0 
  3,732.8 
  3,367.4  
  3,461.7  
 3,486.7 
 Share price
   
High  
 $  47.47 
 $  50.63 
 $  53.25 
 $  49.00  
 $  
40.56 
 Low  
  14.96 
  19.69 
  40.15 
  37.88  
 32.92 
 Close  
  41.67 
  31.53 
  43.65 
  48.30  
 39.69 
 Market capitalization  
  164,261 
  117,695 
  146,986  
  167,199  
 138,387 
 Selected ratios 
   
Return on common equity (ﬁROEﬂ) (f) 
  
   Income from continuing operations  
   6%  
  2%  
  13%  
  12% 
  8 
%    Net income  
  6 
  4 
  13  
  13  
 8 
 Return on tangible common equity (ﬁROTCEﬂ) (f)(g)  
  
   Income from continuing operations  
  10 
  4  
  22  
  24  
 15 
    Net income  
  10 
  6  
  22  
  24  
 15 
 Return on assets (ﬁROAﬂ):  
  
   Income from continuing operations  
  0.58 
  0.21  
  1.06  
  1.04  
 0.70 
    Net income  
  0.58 
  0.31  
  1.06  
  1.10  
 0.72 
 Overhead ratio  
  52  
  65  
  58  
  63  
 72 
 Tier 1 capital ratio  
  11.1 
  10.9 
  8.4  
  8.7  
 8.5 
 Total capital ratio  
  14.8 
  14.8 
  12.6  
  12.3  
 12.0 
 Tier 1 leverage ratio  
  6.9 
  6.9  
  6.0  
  6.2  
 6.3 
 Tier 1 common capital ratio (h)  
  8.8 
  7.0  
  7.0  
  7.3  
 7.0 
 Selected balance sheet data (period-end) 
   Trading assets  
 $ 411,128 
 $ 509,983 
 $ 491,409  
 $ 365,738  
 $ 
298,377 
 Securities  
  360,390 
  205,943 
  85,450  
  91,975  
 47,600 
 Loans  
  633,458 
  744,898 
  519,374  
  483,127  
 419,148 
 Total assets  
  2,031,989 
  2,175,052 
  1,562,147  
  1,351,520  
 1,198,942 
Deposits  
  938,367 
  1,009,277 
  740,728  
  638,788  
 554,991 
 Long-term debt  
  266,318 
  270,683 
  199,010  
  145,630  
 119,886 
Common stockholders™ equity  
  157,213 
  134,945 
  123,221  
  115,790  
 107,072 
 Total stockholders™ equity  
  165,365 
  166,884 
  123,221  
  115,790  
 107,211 
 Headcount 
   222,316 
  224,961 
  180,667  
  174,360  
 168,847 
 (a) Pre-provision profit is total net revenue less noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to generate income in 
excess of its provision for credit losses. 
(b) Results for 2008 included an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank™s banking operations. 
(c) On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase & Co. completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses for the consumer, business banking and middle-market banking businesses of 
The Bank of New York Company Inc. The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses are being reported as discontinued operations for each of the periods presented. 
(d) On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual. On May 30, 2008, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase merged with 
and into The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. (ﬁBear Stearnsﬂ), and Bear Stearns became a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase. The Washington Mutual acquisition resulted in 
negative goodwill, and accordingly, the Firm recorded an extraordinary gain. For additional information on these transactions, see Note 2 on pages 151Œ156 of this Annual Report.  
(e) Effective January 1, 2009, the Firm implemented new FASB guidance for participating securities. Accordingly, prior-period amounts have been revised as required. For further discussion 
of the guidance, see Note 25 on page 232 of this Annual Report. 
(f) The calculation of 2009 earnings per share and net income applicable to common equity include a one-time, noncash reduction of $1.1 billion, or $0.27 per share, resulting from 
repayment of U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program (ﬁTARPﬂ) preferred capital in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding this reduction, the adjusted ROE and ROTCE were 7% and 

11% for 2009. For further discussion, see ﬁExplanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measuresﬂ on pages 58Œ60 of this Annual Report. 
(g) For further discussion of ROTCE, a non-GAAP financial measure, see ﬁExplanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measuresﬂ on pages 58Œ60 of this 
Annual Report. 
(h) Tier 1 common is calculated as Tier 1 capital less qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities and qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries. The Firm uses 
the Tier 1 common capital ratio, a non-GAAP financial measure, to assess and compare the quality and composition of the Firm™s capital with the capital of other financial services 
companies. For further discussion, see Regulatory capital on pages 90Œ92 of this Annual Report. 
˘
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  47
 FIVE-YEAR STOCK PERFORMANCE  
 The following table and graph compare the five-year cumulative 
total return for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂ or the 

ﬁFirmﬂ) common stock with the cumulative return of the S&P 500 

Stock Index and the S&P Financial Index. The S&P 500 Index is a 

commonly referenced U.S. equity benchmark consisting of leading 

companies from different economic sectors. The S&P Financial 

Index is an index of 78 financial companies, all of which are within 

the S&P 500. The Firm is a component of both industry indices.  
The following table and graph assume simultaneous investments 
of $100 on December 31, 2004, in JPMorgan Chase common 

stock and in each of the above S&P indices. The comparison 

assumes that all dividends are reinvested.
 December 31,       
(in dollars) 
  2004 2005200620072008
2009JPMorgan Chase $100.00 $ 105.68$ 132.54$ 123.12$ 91.84
$ 123.15S&P Financial Index 100.00    106.48   126.91   103.27   46.14
   54.09S&P 500 Index 100.00    104.91   121.48   128.16   80.74
   102.11 This section of the JPMorgan Chase™s Annual Report for the year 
ended December 31, 2009 (ﬁAnnual Reportﬂ) provides manage-
ment™s discussion and analysis (ﬁMD&Aﬂ) of the financial condi-
tion and results of operations of JPMorgan Chase. See the 
Glossary of terms on pages 251Œ253 for definitions of terms used 
throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included in this An-
nual Report contains statements that are forward-looking within 
the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 
1995. Such statements are based on the current beliefs and 
expectations of JPMorgan Chase™s management and are subject 
to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertain-
ties could cause the Firm™s results to differ materially from those 
set forth in such forward-looking statements. Certain of such 
risks and uncertainties are described herein (see Forward-looking 
statements on page 143 of this Annual Report) and in the JPMor-
gan Chase Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended De-
cember 31, 2009 (ﬁ2009 Form 10-Kﬂ), in Part I, Item 1A: Risk 
factors, to which reference is hereby made.
INTRODUCTION 
JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial holding company incorporated 
under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services 

firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States 

of America (ﬁU.S.ﬂ), with $2.0 trillion in assets, $165.4 billion in 

stockholders™ equity and operations in more than 60 countries as of 

December 31, 2009. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, 

financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transac-

tion processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and 

Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and 

many of the world™s most prominent corporate, institutional and 

government clients.  
JPMorgan Chase™s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase 
Bank, National Association (ﬁJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.ﬂ), a 

national bank with branches in 23 states in the U.S.; and Chase 

Bank USA, National Association (ﬁChase Bank USA, N.A.ﬂ), a 

national bank that is the Firm™s credit card issuing bank. JPMorgan 

Chase™s principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., 

the Firm™s U.S. investment banking firm.  
JPMorgan Chase™s activities are organized, for management reporting 
purposes, into six business segments, as well as Corporate/Private 

Equity. The Firm™s wholesale businesses comprise the Investment 

Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset 

Management segments. The Firm™s consumer businesses comprise 

the Retail Financial Services and Card Services segments. A descrip-

tion of the Firm™s business segments, and the products and services 

they provide to their respective client bases, follows.  
Investment Bank 
 J.P. Morgan is one of the world™s leading investment banks, with 

deep client relationships and broad product capabilities. The clients 

of the Investment Bank (ﬁIBﬂ) are corporations, financial institu-

tions, governments and institutional investors. The Firm offers a full 

range of investment banking products and services in all major 

capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and 

structure, capital-raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated 

risk management, market-making in cash securities and derivative 

instruments, prime brokerage, and research. IB also commits the 

Firm™s own capital to principal investing and trading activities on a 

limited basis.  
Retail Financial Services 
 Retail Financial Services (ﬁRFSﬂ), which includes the Retail Banking 
and Consumer Lending businesses, serves consumers and busi-

nesses through personal service at bank branches and through 

ATMs, online banking and telephone banking, as well as through 

auto dealerships and school financial-aid offices. Customers can 

use more than 5,100 bank branches (third-largest nationally) and 

15,400 ATMs (second-largest nationally), as well as online and 

mobile banking around the clock. More than 23,900 branch sales-

people assist customers with checking and savings accounts, mort-

gages, home equity and business loans, and investments across the 

23-state footprint from New York and Florida to California. Con-

sumers also can obtain loans through more than 15,700 auto 

dealerships and nearly 2,100 schools and universities nationwide.  
050100150
200December 31,(in dollars)200420052006200720082009
S&P FinancialS&P 500
JPMorgan Chase˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 48
 Card Services  
Card Services (ﬁCSﬂ) is one of the nation™s largest credit card 

issuers, with more than 145 million credit cards in circulation and 

over $163 billion in managed loans. Customers used Chase cards 

to meet more than $328 billion of their spending needs in 2009.  
Chase continues to innovate, despite a very difficult business  
environment, launching new products and services such as Blue-

print, Ultimate Rewards, Chase Sapphire and Ink from Chase, and 

earning a market leadership position in building loyalty and re-

wards programs. Through its merchant acquiring business, Chase 

Paymentech Solutions, Chase is one of the leading processors of 

credit-card payments. 
Commercial Banking  
Commercial Banking (ﬁCBﬂ) serves nearly 25,000 clients nationally, 

including corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and not-

for-profit entities with annual revenue generally ranging from  

$10 million to $2 billion, and more than 30,000 real estate investors/ 

owners. Delivering extensive industry knowledge, local expertise and 

dedicated service, CB partners with the Firm™s other businesses to 

provide comprehensive solutions, including lending, treasury services, 

investment banking and asset management to meet its clients™  

domestic and international financial needs.  
Treasury & Securities Services 
 Treasury & Securities Services (ﬁTSSﬂ) is a global leader in transac-

tion, investment and information services. TSS is one of the world™s 

largest cash management providers and a leading global custodian. 

Treasury Services (ﬁTSﬂ) provides cash management, trade, whole-

sale card and liquidity products and services to small and mid-sized 

companies, multinational corporations, financial institutions and 

government entities. TS partners with the Commercial Banking, 

Retail Financial Services and Asset Management businesses to 

serve clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenue is included in 

other segments™ results. Worldwide Securities Services holds, val-

ues, clears and services securities, cash and alternative investments 

for investors and broker-dealers, and it manages depositary receipt 

programs globally.  
Asset Management 
 Asset Management (ﬁAMﬂ), with assets under supervision of $1.7 
trillion, is a global leader in investment and wealth management. AM 

clients include institutions, retail investors and high-net-worth indi-

viduals in every major market throughout the world. AM offers global 

investment management in equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge 

funds, private equity and liquidity products, including money-market 

instruments and bank deposits. AM also provides trust and estate, 

banking and brokerage services to high-net-worth clients, and retire-

ment services for corporations and individuals. The majority of AM™s 

client assets are in actively managed portfolios.  
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  49
 EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 
This executive overview of management™s discussion and analysis 
highlights selected information and may not contain all of the infor-
mation that is important to readers of this Annual Report. For a 
complete description of events, trends and uncertainties, as well as 
the capital, liquidity, credit, operational and market risks and the 
critical accounting estimates affecting the Firm and its various lines 
of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety. 
 Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase 
Year ended December 31, 
    
(in millions, except per share data  
 and ratios) 
 2009 
 2008 Change 
Selected income statement data
    Total net revenue 
  $ 100,434 
   $ 67,252 
   49%
 Total noninterest expense 
 52,352 
 43,500 
20
Pre-provision profit 
 48,082 
 23,752 
102
Provision for credit losses 
 32,015 
 20,979 
53
Income before extraordinary gain 
 11,652 
 3,699 
215
Extraordinary gain 
 76 
 1,906 
(96) 
Net income
  11,728 
 5,605 
109
Diluted earnings per share  
 Income before extraordinary gain 
  $ 2.24 
   $    0.81 
177
Net income 
 2.26 
     1.35 
67
Return on common equity  
 Income before extraordinary gain 
            6%
   2%
 Net income 
 6 
 4 
Capital ratios 
  Tier 1 capital 
 11.1 
     10.9 
 Tier 1 common capital 
 8.8 
     7.0 
  Business overview    
JPMorgan Chase reported 2009 net income of $11.7 bil
lion, or 
$2.26 per share, compared with net income of $5.6 billion, or 
$1.35 per share, in 2008. Total net revenue in 2009 was $100.4 

billion, compared with $67.3 billion in 2008. Return on common 

equity was 6% in 2009 and 4% in 2008. Results benefited from 

the impact of the acquisition of the banking operations of Wash-

ington Mutual Bank (ﬁWashington Mutualﬂ) on September 25, 

2008, and the impact of the merger with The Bear Stearns Com-

panies Inc. (ﬁBear Stearnsﬂ) on May 30, 2008. 
The increase in net income for the year was driven by record net 
revenue, including record revenue in the Investment Bank reflect-

ing modest net gains on legacy leveraged-lending and mortgage-

related positions compared with net markdowns in the prior year. 

Partially offsetting the growth in the Firm™s revenue was an in-

crease in the provision for credit losses, driven by an increase in 

the consumer provision, and higher noninterest expense reflecting 

the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. 
The business environment in 2009 gradually improved throughout 
the year. The year began with a continuation of the weak condi-

tions experienced in 2008 Œ the global economy contracted sharply 

in the first quarter, labor markets deteriorated rapidly and unem-

ployment rose, credit was tight, liquidity was diminished, and 

businesses continued to downsize and cut inventory levels rapidly. 

Throughout the year, the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System (ﬁFederal Reserveﬂ) took actions to stabilize the 

financial markets and promote an economic revival. It held its 

policy rate close to zero and indicated that this policy was likely to 

remain in place for some time, given economic conditions. In 

addition, it greatly expanded a program it launched at the end of 

2008, with a plan to buy up to $1.7 trillion of securities, including 

Treasury securities, mortgage-backed securities and obligations of 

government-sponsored agencies. The U.S. government and various 

regulators continued their efforts to stabilize the U.S. economy, 

putting in place a financial rescue plan that supplemented the 

interest rate and other actions that had been taken by the Federal 

Reserve and the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the ﬁU.S. Treas-

uryﬂ) in the second half of 2008. These efforts began to take effect 

during 2009. Developing economies rebounded significantly and 

contraction in developed economies slowed. Credit conditions 

improved in the summer, with most credit spreads narrowing 

dramatically. By the third quarter of the year, many spreads had 

returned to pre-crisis levels. By the fourth quarter, economic activ-

ity was expanding and signs emerged that the deterioration in the 

labor market was abating, although by the end of the year unem-

ployment reached 10%, its highest level since 1983. The housing 

sector showed some signs of improvement and household spend-

ing appeared to be expanding at a moderate rate, though it  

remained constrained by a weak labor market, modest income 

growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit. Businesses were 

continuing to reduce capital investment, though at a slower pace, 

and remained reluctant to add to payrolls. Financial market condi-

tions in the fourth quarter became more supportive of economic 

growth. 
Amidst this difficult operating environment, JPMorgan Chase benefited 
from the diversity of its leading franchises, as demonstrated by the 

continued earnings strength of its Investment Bank, Commercial Bank-

ing, Asset Management, and Retail Banking franchises. Significant 

market share and efficiency gains helped all of the Firm™s businesses 

maintain leadership positions: the Investment Bank ranked #1 for 

Global Investment Banking fees for 2009; in Commercial Banking, at 

year-end 2009, the total revenue related to investment banking prod-

ucts sold to CB clients doubled from its level at the time of the JPMor-

gan ChaseŒBank One merger. In addition, the Firm completed the 

integration of Washington Mutual and continued to invest in its busi-

nesses, demonstrated by growth in checking and credit card accounts. 
Throughout 2009, the Firm remained focused on maintaining a 
strong balance sheet. In addition to the capital generated from 

earnings, the Firm issued $5.8 billion of common stock and re-

duced its quarterly dividend. The Firm also increased its consumer 

allowance for credit losses by $7.8 billion, bringing the total al-

lowance for credit losses to $32.5 billion, or 5.5% of total loans. 

The Firm recorded a $1.1 billion one-time noncash adjustment to 

common stockholders™ equity related to the redemption of the 

$25.0 billion of Series K Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 

under the Capital Purchase Program. Even with this adjustment, the 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 50
 Firm ended 2009 with a very strong Tier 1 Capital ratio of 11.1% 
and a Tier 1 Common ratio of 8.8%. 
Throughout this turbulent financial period, JPMorgan Chase sup-
ported and served its 90 million customers and the communities in 

which it operates; delivered consumer-friendly products and policies; 

and continued to lend. The Firm extended nearly $250 billion in new 

credit to consumers during the year and for its corporate and munici-

pal clients, either lent or assisted them in raising approximately $1 

trillion in loans, stocks or bonds. The Firm also remained committed 

to helping homeowners meet the challenges of declining home 

prices and rising unemployment. Since 2007, the Firm has initiated 

over 900,000 actions to prevent foreclosures through its own pro-

grams and through government mortgage-modification programs. 

During 2009 alone, JPMorgan Chase offered approximately 600,000 

loan modifications to struggling homeowners. Of these, 89,000 

loans have achieved permanent modification. By March 31, 2010, 

the Firm will have opened 51 Chase Homeownership Centers across 

the country and already has over 14,000 employees dedicated to 

mortgage loss mitigation. 
Management remains confident that JPMorgan Chase™s capital and 
reserve strength, combined with its significant earnings power, will 

allow the Firm to meet the uncertainties that lie ahead and still 

continue investing in its businesses and serving its clients and share-

holders over the long term. 
The discussion that follows highlights the performance of each 
business segment compared with the prior year and presents results 
on a managed basis unless otherwise noted. For more information 
about managed basis, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the 
Firm™s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 58Œ60 of this 
Annual Report.
 Investment Bank 
reported record net income in 2009 compared 
with a net loss in 2008. The significant rebound in earnings was 

driven by record net revenue, partially offset by increases in both 

noninterest expense and the provision for credit losses. The increase 

in net revenue was driven by record Fixed Income Markets revenue, 

reflecting strong results across most products, as well as modest net 

gains on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage-related positions, 

compared with over $10 billion of net markdowns in the prior year. 

Investment banking fees rose to record levels, as higher equity and 

debt underwriting fees were partially offset by lower advisory fees. 

Record Equity Markets revenue was driven by solid client revenue, 

particularly in prime services, and strong trading results. The net 

revenue results for IB in 2009 included losses from the tightening of 

the Firm™s credit spread on certain structured liabilities and deriva-

tives, compared with gains in 2008 from the widening of the spread 

on those liabilities. The provision for credit losses increased, driven 

by continued weakness in the credit environment. IB ended the year 

with a ratio of allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans 

retained of 8.25%. Noninterest expense increased, reflecting higher 

performance-based compensation offset partially by lower head-

count-related expense.  
Retail Financial Services 
net income decreased from the prior 
year, as an increase in the provision for credit losses and higher 
noninterest expense were predominantly offset by double-digit 
growth in net revenue. Higher net revenue reflected the impact of 

the Washington Mutual transaction, wider loan and deposit spreads, 

and higher net mortgage servicing revenue. The provision for credit 

losses increased from the prior year as weak economic conditions 

and housing price declines continued to drive higher estimated losses 

for the home equity and mortgage loan portfolios. RFS ended the 

year with a ratio of allowance for loan losses to ending loans, ex-

cluding purchased credit-impaired loans of 5.09%. Noninterest 

expense was higher, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction and higher servicing and default-related expense.  
Card Services 
reported a net loss for the year, compared with net 
income in 2008. The decline was driven by a significantly higher 
provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher net revenue. The 

double-digit growth in managed net revenue was driven by the 

impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider loan spreads 

and higher merchant servicing revenue related to the dissolution of 

the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture; these were partially 

offset by higher revenue reversals associated with higher charge-offs, 

a decreased level of fees and lower average loan balances. The 

provision for credit losses increased, reflecting continued weakness 

in the credit environment. CS ended the year with a ratio of allow-

ance for loan losses to end-of-period loans of 12.28%. Noninterest 

expense increased due to the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech 

Solutions joint venture and the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction, partially offset by lower marketing expense.  
Commercial Banking 
net income decreased from 2008, as an 
increase in provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense 
were predominantly offset by higher net revenue. Double-digit 

growth in net revenue reflected the impact of the Washington Mu-

tual transaction and record levels of lending- and deposit-related and 

investment banking fees. Revenue rose in all business segments: 

Middle Market Banking, Commercial Term Lending, Mid-Corporate 

Banking and Real Estate Banking. The provision for credit losses 

increased, reflecting continued weakness throughout the year in the 

credit environment across all business segments, predominantly in 

real estateŒrelated segments. CB ended the year with a ratio of 

allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained of 3.12%. 

Noninterest expense increased due to the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction and higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-

tion (ﬁFDICﬂ) insurance premiums.  
Treasury & Securities Services 
net income declined from the 
prior year, driven by lower net revenue. The decrease in net revenue 
reflected lower Worldwide Securities Services net revenue, driven by 

lower balances and spreads on liability products; lower securities 

lending balances, primarily as a result of declines in asset valuations 

and demand; and the effect of market depreciation on certain cus-

tody assets. Treasury Services net revenue also declined, reflecting 

lower deposit balances and spreads, offset by higher trade revenue 

driven by wider spreads and growth across cash management and 

card product volumes. Noninterest expense rose slightly compared 

with the prior year, reflecting higher FDIC insurance premiums offset 

by lower headcount-related expense.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  51
 Asset Management 
net income increased from the prior year, due 
to higher net revenue, offset largely by higher noninterest expense 
and a higher provision for credit losses. The increase in net revenue 

reflected higher valuations of the Firm™s seed capital investments, net 

inflows, wider loan spreads and higher deposit balances, offset 

partially by the effect of lower market levels and narrower deposit 

spreads. Asset Management™s businesses reported mixed revenue 

results: Institutional and Private Bank revenue were up while Retail 

and Private Wealth Management revenue were down. Assets under 

supervision increased for the year, due to the effect of higher market 

valuations and inflows in fixed income and equity products offset 

partially by outflows in cash products. The provision for credit losses 

increased compared with the prior year, reflecting continued weak-

ness in the credit environment. Noninterest expense was higher, 

reflecting the effect of the Bear Stearns merger, higher performance-

based compensation and higher FDIC insurance premiums, offset 

largely by lower headcount-related expense.  
Corporate/Private Equity 
net income increased in 2009, reflect-
ing elevated levels of trading gains and net interest income, securi-
ties gains, an after-tax gain from the sale of MasterCard shares and 

reduced losses from Private Equity compared with 2008. Trading 

gains and net interest income increased due to the Firm™s significant 

purchases of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S. gov-

ernment agencies, corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury and 

government agency securities and other asset-backed securities. 

These investments were generally associated with the Chief Invest-

ment Office™s management of interest rate risk and investment of 

cash resulting from the excess funding the Firm continued to experi-

ence during 2009. The increase in securities was partially offset by 

sales of higher-coupon instruments (part of repositioning the invest-

ment portfolio) as well as prepayments and maturities. 
Firmwide
, the managed provision for credit losses was $38.5 
billion, up by $13.9 billion, or 56%, from the prior year. The prior 
year included a $1.5 billion charge to conform Washington Mutual™s 

allowance for loan losses, which affected both the consumer and 

wholesale portfolios. For the purposes of the following analysis, this 

charge is excluded. The consumer-managed provision for credit losses 

was $34.5 billion, compared with $20.4 billion in the prior year, 

reflecting an increase in the allowance for credit losses in the home 

lending and credit card loan portfolios. Consumer-managed net 

charge-offs were $26.3 billion, compared with $13.0 billion in the 

prior year, resulting in managed net charge-off rates of 5.85% and 

3.22%, respectively. The wholesale provision for credit losses was 

$4.0 billion, compared with $2.7 billion in the prior year, reflecting 

continued weakness in the credit environment throughout 2009. 

Wholesale net charge-offs were $3.1 billion, compared with $402 

million in the prior year, resulting in net charge-off rates of 1.40% 

and 0.18%, respectively. The Firm™s nonperforming assets totaled 

$19.7 billion at December 31, 2009, up from $12.7 billion. The total 

allowance for credit losses increased by $8.7 billion from the prior 

year-end, resulting in a loan loss coverage ratio at December 31, 

2009, of 5.51%, compared with 3.62% at December 31, 2008.  
Total stockholders™ equity at December 31, 2009, was $165.4 billion. 
2010 Business outlook  
The following forward-looking statements are based on the current 
beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase™s management and are 
subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncer-
tainties could cause the Firm™s actual results to differ materially from 
those set forth in such forward-looking statements. 
JPMorgan Chase™s outlook for 2010 should be viewed against the 
backdrop of the global and U.S. economies, financial markets activ-

ity, the geopolitical environment, the competitive environment and 

client activity levels. Each of these linked factors will affect the 

performance of the Firm and its lines of business. The Firm continues 

to monitor the U.S. and international economies and political envi-

ronments. The outlook for capital markets remains uncertain, and 

further declines in U.S. housing prices in certain markets and in-

creases in the unemployment rate, either of which could adversely 

affect the Firm™s financial results, are possible. In addition, as a result 

of recent market conditions, the U.S. Congress and regulators have 

increased their focus on the regulation of financial institutions; any 

legislation or regulations that may be adopted as a result could limit 

or restrict the Firm™s operations, and could impose additional costs 

on the Firm in order to comply with such new laws or rules. 
Given the potential stress on consumers from rising unemployment 
and continued downward pressure on housing prices, management 

remains cautious with respect to the credit outlook for the con-

sumer loan portfolios. Possible continued weakness in credit trends 

could result in higher credit costs and require additions to the 

consumer allowance for credit losses. Based on management™s 

current economic outlook, quarterly net charge-offs could reach 

$1.4 billion for the home equity portfolio, $600 million for the 

prime mortgage portfolio and $500 million for the subprime mort-

gage portfolio over the next several quarters. The managed net 

charge-off rate for Card Services (excluding the Washington Mu-

tual credit card portfolio) could approach 11% by the first quarter 

of 2010, including the adverse timing effect of a payment holiday 

program of approximately 60 basis points. The managed net 

charge-off rate for the Washington Mutual credit card portfolio 

could approach 24% over the next several quarters. These charge-

off rates are likely to move even higher if the economic environ-

ment deteriorates beyond management™s current expectations. 

Similarly, wholesale credit costs and net charge-offs could increase 

in the next several quarters if the credit environment deteriorates. 
The Investment Bank continues to operate in an uncertain environ-
ment, and as noted above, results could be adversely affected if the 

credit environment were to deteriorate further. Trading results can be 

volatile and 2009 included elevated client volumes and spread levels. 

As such, management expects Fixed Income and Equity Markets 

revenue to normalize over time as conditions stabilize.  
In the Retail Banking segment within Retail Financial Services,  
although management expects underlying growth, results will be 

under pressure from the credit environment and ongoing lower 

consumer spending levels. In addition, the Firm has made changes, 

consistent with (and in certain respects, beyond) the requirements of 

newly-enacted legislation, in its policies relating to non-sufficient 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 52
 funds and overdraft fees. Although management estimates are, at 
this point in time, preliminary and subject to change, such changes 

are expected to result in an annualized reduction in net income of 

approximately $500 million, beginning in the first quarter of 2010. 
In the Consumer Lending segment within Retail Financial Services, at 
current production and estimated run-off levels, the Home Lending 

portfolio of $263 billion at December 31, 2009, is expected to  

decline by approximately 10Œ15% and could possibly average  

approximately $240 billion in 2010 and approximately $200 billion 

in 2011. Based on management™s preliminary estimate, which is 

subject to change, the effect of such a reduction in the Home Lend-

ing portfolio is expected to reduce 2010 net interest income in the 

portfolio by approximately $1 billion from the 2009 level. Addition-

ally, revenue could be negatively affected by elevated levels of repur-

chases of mortgages previously sold to, for example, government-

sponsored enterprises. 
Management expects noninterest expense in Retail Financial Services 
to remain at or above 2009 levels, reflecting investments in new 

branch builds and sales force hires as well as continued elevated 

servicing, default and foreclosed asset related costs. 
Card Services faces rising credit costs in 2010, as well as continued 
pressure on both charge volumes and credit card receivables growth, 

reflecting continued lower levels of consumer spending. In addition, 

as a result of the recently-enacted credit card legislation, manage-

ment estimates, which are preliminary and subject to change, are 

that CS™s annual net income may be adversely affected by approxi-

mately $500 million to $750 million. Further, management expects 

average Card outstandings to decline by approximately 10Œ15% in 

2010 due to the run-off of the Washington Mutual portfolio and 

lower balance transfer levels. As a result of all these factors, man-

agement currently expects CS to report net losses in each of the first 

two quarters of 2010 (of approximately $1 billion in the first quarter 

and somewhat less than that in the second quarter) before the effect 

of any potential reserve actions. Results in the second half of 2010 
will likely be dependent on the economic environment and potential 

reserve actions. 
Commercial Banking results could be negatively affected by rising 
credit costs, a decline in loan demand and reduced liability balances. 
Earnings in Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management will 
be affected by the impact of market levels on assets under manage-

ment, supervision and custody. Additionally, earnings in Treasury & 

Securities Services could be affected by liability balance flows. 
Earnings in Private Equity (within the Corporate/Private Equity seg-
ment) will likely be volatile and continue to be influenced by capital 

markets activity, market levels, the performance of the broader econ-

omy and investment-specific issues. Corporate™s net interest income 

levels and securities gains will generally trend with the size of the 

investment portfolio in Corporate; however, the high level of trading 

gains in Corporate in the second half of 2009 is not likely to continue. 

In the near-term, Corporate quarterly net income (excluding Private 

Equity, merger-related items and any significant nonrecurring items) is 

expected to decline to approximately $300 million, subject to the size 

and duration of the investment securities portfolio. 
Lastly, with regard to any decision by the Firm™s Board of Directors 
concerning any increase in the level of the common stock dividend, 

their determination will be subject to their judgment that the 

likelihood of another severe economic downturn has sufficiently 

diminished, that overall business performance has stabilized, and 

that such action is warranted taking into consideration the Firm™s 

earnings outlook, need to maintain adequate capital levels, alter-

native investment opportunities, and appropriate dividend payout 

ratios. When in the Board™s judgment, based on the foregoing, the 

Board believes it appropriate to increase the dividend to an annual 

payout level in the range of $0.75 to $1.00 per share, the Board 

would likely move forward with such an increase, and follow at 

some later time with an additional increase or additional increases 

sufficient to return to the Firm™s historical dividend ratio of ap-

proximately 30% to 40% of normalized earnings over time.  
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  53
 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
This following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan 
Chase™s Consolidated Results of Operations on a reported basis for 
the three-year period ended December 31, 2009. Factors that related 
primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detail 
within that business segment. For a discussion of the Critical Ac-
counting Estimates Used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated 
Results of Operations, see pages 135Œ139 of this Annual Report.  
Revenue  
Year ended December 31, 
    
(in millions) 
2009
2008
 2007 
Investment banking fees 
$7,087
$   
5,526 
 $ 
6,635 
 Principal transactions 
9,796
(10,699) 
9,015 
 Lending- and deposit-related fees 
7,045
5,088
3,938 
 Asset management, administration
    and commissions 
12,540
13,943
14,356 
 Securities gains  
1,110
1,560
164 
 Mortgage fees and related income 
3,678
3,467
2,118 
 Credit card income 
7,110
7,419
6,911 
 Other income 
916
2,169
1,829 
 Noninterest revenue 
49,282
28,47344,9
66 
 Net interest income 
51,152
38,779
26,406 
 Total net revenue 
$100,434
$ 67,252 $ 
71,372 
 2009 compared with 2008    
Total net revenue was $100.4 billion, up by $33.2 billion, or 49%, 

from the prior year. The increase was driven by higher principal 

transactions revenue, primarily related to improved performance 

across most fixed income and equity products, and the absence of net 

markdowns on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage positions in 

IB, as well as higher levels of trading gains and investment securities 

income in Corporate/Private Equity. Results also benefited from the 

impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, which contributed to 

increases in net interest income, lending- and deposit-related fees, 

and mortgage fees and related income. Lastly, higher investment 

banking fees also contributed to revenue growth. These increases in 

revenue were offset partially by reduced fees and commissions from 

the effect of lower market levels on assets under management and 

custody, and the absence of proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in 

its initial public offering in the first quarter of 2008. 
Investment banking fees increased from the prior year, due to higher 
equity and debt underwriting fees. For a further discussion of invest-

ment banking fees, which are primarily recorded in IB, see IB segment 

results on pages 63Œ65 of this Annual Report. 
Principal transactions revenue, which consists of revenue from trading 
and private equity investing activities, was significantly higher com-

pared with the prior year. Trading revenue increased, driven by  

improved performance across most fixed income and equity products; 

modest net gains on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage-related 

positions, compared with net markdowns of $10.6 billion in the prior 

year; and gains on trading positions in Corporate/Private Equity, 

compared with losses in the prior year of $1.1 billion on markdowns 

of Federal National Mortgage Association (ﬁFannie Maeﬂ) and Fed-

eral Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (ﬁFreddie Macﬂ) preferred 

securities. These increases in revenue were offset partially by an 
aggregate loss of $2.3 billion from the tightening of the Firm™s credit 

spread on certain structured liabilities and derivatives, compared with 

gains of $2.0 billion in the prior year from widening spreads on these 

liabilities and derivatives. The Firm™s private equity investments pro-

duced a slight net loss in 2009, a significant improvement from a 

larger net loss in 2008. For a further discussion of principal transac-

tions revenue, see IB and Corporate/Private Equity segment results on 

pages 63Œ65 and 82Œ83, respectively, and Note 3 on pages 156Œ

173 of this Annual Report. 
Lending- and deposit-related fees rose from the prior year, predomi-
nantly reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction 

and organic growth in both lending- and deposit-related fees in RFS, 

CB, IB and TSS. For a further discussion of lending- and deposit-

related fees, which are mostly recorded in RFS, TSS and CB, see the 

RFS segment results on pages 66Œ71, the TSS segment results on 

pages 77Œ78, and the CB segment results on pages 75Œ76 of this 

Annual Report. 
The decline in asset management, administration and commissions 
revenue compared with the prior year was largely due to lower asset 

management fees in AM from the effect of lower market levels. Also 

contributing to the decrease were lower administration fees in TSS, 

driven by the effect of market depreciation on certain custody assets 

and lower securities lending balances; and lower brokerage commis-

sions revenue in IB, predominantly related to lower transaction vol-

ume. For additional information on these fees and commissions, see 

the segment discussions for TSS on pages 77Œ78, and AM on pages 

79Œ81 of this Annual Report. 
Securities gains were lower in 2009 and included credit losses 
related to other-than-temporary impairment and lower gains on the 

sale of MasterCard shares of $241 million in 2009, compared with 

$668 million in 2008. These decreases were offset partially by 

higher gains from repositioning the Corporate investment securities 

portfolio in connection with managing the Firm™s structural interest 

rate risk. For a further discussion of securities gains, which are 

mostly recorded in Corporate/Private Equity, see the Corpo-

rate/Private Equity segment discussion on pages 82Œ83 of this 

Annual Report. 
Mortgage fees and related income increased slightly from the prior 
year, as higher net mortgage servicing revenue was largely offset by 

lower production revenue. The increase in net mortgage servicing 

revenue was driven by growth in average third-party loans serviced as 

a result of the Washington Mutual transaction. Mortgage production 

revenue declined from the prior year, reflecting an increase in esti-

mated losses from the repurchase of previously-sold loans, offset 

partially by wider margins on new originations. For a discussion of 

mortgage fees and related income, which is recorded primarily in 

RFS™s Consumer Lending business, see the Consumer Lending discus-

sion on pages 68Œ71 of this Annual Report. 
Credit card income, which includes the impact of the Washington 
Mutual transaction, decreased slightly compared with the prior year, 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 54
 due to lower servicing fees earned in connection with CS securitiza-
tion activities, largely as a result of higher credit losses. The decrease 

was partially offset by wider loan margins on securitized credit card 

loans; higher merchant servicing revenue related to the dissolution of 

the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture; and higher inter-

change income. For a further discussion of credit card income, see the 

CS segment results on pages 72Œ74 of this Annual Report. 
Other income decreased from the prior year, due predominantly to 
the absence of $1.5 billion in proceeds from the sale of Visa shares 

during its initial public offering in the first quarter of 2008, and a $1.0 

billion gain on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions 

joint venture in the fourth quarter of 2008; and lower net securitiza-

tion income in CS. These items were partially offset by a $464 million 

charge recognized in 2008 related to the repurchase of auction-rate 

securities at par; the absence of a $423 million loss incurred in the 

second quarter of 2008, reflecting the Firm™s 49.4% share of Bear 

Stearns™ losses from April 8 to May 30, 2008; and higher valuations 

on certain investments, including seed capital in AM. 
Net interest income increased from the prior year, driven by the 
Washington Mutual transaction, which contributed to higher average 

loans and deposits. The Firm™s interest-earning assets were $1.7 

trillion, and the net yield on those assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent 

(ﬁFTEﬂ) basis, was 3.12%, an increase of 25 basis points from 2008. 

Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, the 

increase in net interest income in 2009 was driven by a higher level of 

investment securities, as well as a wider net interest margin, which 

reflected the overall decline in market interest rates during the year. 

Declining interest rates had a positive effect on the net interest mar-

gin, as rates paid on the Firm™s interest-bearing liabilities decreased 

faster relative to the decline in rates earned on interest-earning 

assets. These increases in net interest income were offset partially by 

lower loan balances, which included the effect of lower customer 

demand, repayments and charge-offs. 
2008 compared with 2007  
Total net revenue of $67.3 billion was down $4.1 billion, or 6%, 

from the prior year. The decline resulted from the extremely chal-

lenging business environment for financial services firms in 2008. 

Principal transactions revenue decreased significantly and included 

net markdowns on mortgage-related positions and leveraged 

lending funded and unfunded commitments, losses on preferred 

securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and losses on private 

equity investments. Also contributing to the decline in total net 

revenue were losses and markdowns recorded in other income, 

including the Firm™s share of Bear Stearns™ losses from April 8 to 

May 30, 2008. These declines were largely offset by higher net 

interest income, proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initial 

public offering, and the gain on the dissolution of the Chase Pay-

mentech joint venture. 
Investment banking fees were down from the record level of the 
prior year due to lower debt underwriting fees, as well as lower 

advisory and equity underwriting fees, both of which were at record 

levels in 2007. These declines were attributable to reduced market 
activity. For a further discussion of investment banking fees, which 

are primarily recorded in IB, see IB segment results on pages 63Œ65 

of this Annual Report. 
In 2008, principal transactions revenue declined by $19.7 billion 
from the prior year. Trading revenue decreased by $14.5 billion to a 

negative $9.8 billion, compared with positive $4.7 billion in 2007. 

The decline in trading revenue was largely driven by net mark-

downs of $5.9 billion on mortgage-related exposures, compared 

with $1.4 billion in net markdowns in the prior year; net mark-

downs of $4.7 billion on leveraged lending funded and unfunded 

commitments, compared with $1.3 billion in net markdowns in the 

prior year; losses of $1.1 billion on preferred securities of Fannie 

Mae and Freddie Mac; and weaker equity trading results, compared 

with a record level in 2007. In addition, trading revenue was ad-

versely affected by additional losses and costs to reduce risk related 

to Bear Stearns positions. Partially offsetting the decline in trading 

revenue were record results in rates and currencies, credit trading, 

commodities and emerging markets, as well as strong Equity Mar-

kets client revenue; and total gains of $2.0 billion from the widen-

ing of the Firm™s credit spread on certain structured liabilities and 

derivatives, compared with $1.3 billion in 2007. Private equity 

results also declined substantially from the prior year, recording 

losses of $908 million in 2008, compared with gains of $4.3 billion 

in 2007. In addition, the first quarter of 2007 included a fair value 

adjustment related to the adoption of new FASB guidance on fair 

value measurement. For a further discussion of principal transac-

tions revenue, see IB and Corporate/Private Equity segment results 

on pages 63Œ65 and 82Œ83, respectively, and Note 3 on pages 

156Œ173 of this Annual Report.  
Lending- and deposit-related fees rose from 2007, predominantly 
resulting from higher deposit-related fees and the impact of the 

Washington Mutual transaction. For a further discussion of Lend-

ing- and deposit-related fees, which are mostly recorded in RFS, 

TSS and CB, see the RFS segment results on pages 66Œ71, the TSS 

segment results on pages 77Œ78 and the CB segment results on 

pages 75Œ76 of this Annual Report. 
The decline in asset management, administration and commissions 
revenue compared with 2007 was driven by lower asset manage-

ment fees in AM, due to lower performance fees and the effect of 

lower market levels. This decline was partially offset by an increase 

in commissions revenue, related predominantly to higher brokerage 

transaction volume within IB™s Equity Markets revenue, which 

included additions from Bear Stearns™ Prime Services business; and 

higher administration fees in TSS, driven by wider spreads in securi-

ties lending and increased product usage by new and existing 

clients. For additional information on these fees and commissions, 

see the segment discussions for IB on pages 63Œ65, RFS on pages 

66Œ71, TSS on pages 77Œ78 and AM on pages 79Œ81 of this 

Annual Report. 
The increase in securities gains compared with the prior year was 
due to the repositioning of the Corporate investment securities 

portfolio, as part of managing the structural interest rate risk of the 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  55
 Firm; and higher gains from the sale of MasterCard shares. For a 
further discussion of securities gains, which are mostly recorded in 

the Firm™s Corporate/Private Equity business, see the Corpo-

rate/Private Equity segment discussion on pages 82Œ83 of this 

Annual Report. 
Mortgage fees and related income increased from the prior year, 
driven by higher net mortgage servicing revenue, which benefited 

from an improvement in mortgage servicing rights (ﬁMSRﬂ) risk 

management results and increased loan servicing revenue. Mort-

gage production revenue increased slightly, as growth in origina-

tions was predominantly offset by markdowns on the mortgage 

warehouse and increased losses related to the repurchase of previ-

ously sold loans. For a discussion of mortgage fees and related 

income, which is recorded primarily in RFS™s Consumer Lending 

business, see the Consumer Lending discussion on pages 68Œ71 of 

this Annual Report. 
Credit card income rose compared with the prior year, driven by 
increased interchange income, due to higher customer charge 

volume in CS and higher debit card transaction volume in RFS; the 

impact of the Washington Mutual transaction; and increased servic-

ing fees resulting from a higher level of securitized receivables. 

These results were partially offset by increases in volume-driven 

payments to partners and expense related to rewards programs. For 

a further discussion of credit card income, see CS™s segment results 

on pages 72Œ74 of this Annual Report. 
Other income increased compared with the prior year, due pre-
dominantly to the proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initial 

public offering of $1.5 billion, the gain on the dissolution of the 

Chase Paymentech joint venture of $1.0 billion, and gains on sales 

of certain other assets. These proceeds and gains were partially 

offset by lower valuations on certain investments, including seed 

capital in AM; a $464 million charge related to the offer to repur-

chase auction-rate securities at par; losses of $423 million reflect-

ing the Firm™s 49.4% ownership in Bear Stearns™ losses from April 8 

to May 30, 2008; and lower net securitization income in CS.  
Net interest income increased from the prior year driven, in part, by 
the Washington Mutual transaction, which contributed to higher 

average loans and deposits, and, to a lesser extent, by the Bear 

Stearns merger. The Bear Stearns Prime Services business contrib-

uted to higher net interest income, as this business increased 

average balances in other interest-earning assets (primarily cus-

tomer receivables) and other interest-bearing liabilities (primarily 

customer payables). The Firm™s interest-earning assets were $1.4 

trillion, and the net yield on those assets, on an FTE basis, was 

2.87%, an increase of 48 basis points from 2007. Excluding the 

impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and the Bear Stearns 

merger, the increase in net interest income in 2008 was driven by a 

wider net interest margin, which reflected the overall decline in 

market interest rates during the year. The decline in rates had a 

positive effect on the net interest margin, as rates paid on the 

Firm™s interest-bearing liabilities decreased faster relative to the 

decrease in rates earned on interest-earning assets. Growth in 
consumer and wholesale loan balances also contributed to the 

increase in net interest income. 
Provision for credit losses 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
 2009
      2008      2007
 Wholesale  
   $   3,974
     $   3,327   $    934
 Consumer 
 28,041
 17,652    5,930
 Total provision for credit losses    $ 32,015
     $ 20,979  $ 
6,864 
2009 compared with 2008  
The provision for credit losses in 2009 rose by $11.0 billion com-

pared with the prior year, predominantly due to a significant in-

crease in the consumer provision. The prior year included a $1.5 

billion charge to conform Washington Mutual™s allowance for loan 

losses, which affected both the consumer and wholesale portfolios. 

For the purpose of the following analysis, this charge is excluded. The 

consumer provision reflected additions to the allowance for loan 

losses for the home equity, mortgage and credit card portfolios, as 

weak economic conditions, housing price declines and higher 

unemployment rates continued to drive higher estimated losses for 

these portfolios. Included in the 2009 addition to the allowance for 

loan losses was a $1.6 billion provision related to estimated dete-

rioration in the Washington Mutual purchased credit-impaired 

portfolio. The wholesale provision increased from the prior year, 

reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment in 2009 

compared with the prior year. For a more detailed discussion of the 

loan portfolio and the allowance for loan losses, see the segment 

discussions for RFS on pages 66Œ71, CS on pages 72Œ74, IB on 

pages 63Œ65 and CB on pages 75Œ76, and the Allowance for 

Credit Losses section on pages 123Œ125 of this Annual Report. 
2008 compared with 2007  
The provision for credit losses in 2008 rose by $14.1 billion com-

pared with the prior year, due to increases in both the consumer 

and wholesale provisions. The increase in the consumer provision 

reflected higher estimated losses for home equity and mortgages 

resulting from declining housing prices; an increase in estimated 

losses for the auto, student and business banking loan portfolios; 

and an increase in the allowance for loan losses and higher charge-

offs of credit card loans. The increase in the wholesale provision 

was driven by a higher allowance resulting from a weakening credit 

environment and growth in retained loans. The wholesale provision 

in the first quarter of 2008 also included the effect of the transfer 

of $4.9 billion of funded and unfunded leveraged lending commit-

ments to retained loans from the held-for-sale portfolio. In addi-

tion, in 2008 both the consumer and wholesale provisions were 

affected by a $1.5 billion charge to conform assets acquired from 

Washington Mutual to the Firm™s loan loss methodologies. For a 

more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the allowance for 

loan losses, see the segment discussions for RFS on pages 66Œ71, 

CS on pages 72Œ74, IB on pages 63Œ65 and CB on pages 75Œ76, 

and the Credit Risk Management section on pages 101Œ125 of this 

Annual Report. 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 56
 Noninterest expense 
The following table presents the components of nonin
terest  
expense. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
 2009 
    2008          2007
 Compensation expense 
$ 26,928 
 $ 22,746   $ 
22,689 
Noncompensation expense: 
  Occupancy expense 
 3,666 
 3,038  
2,608 
Technology, communications  
   and equipment expense 
 4,624
  4,315  
3,779 
Professional & outside services 
 6,232
  6,053  
5,140 
Marketing 
 1,777
  1,913  
2,070 
Other expense
(a)(b)
  7,594
  3,740  
3,814 
     Amortization of intangibles 
 1,050
  1,263  
1,394 
Total noncompensation expense 
 24,943
  20,322  
18,805 
Merger costs 
 481
  432  
209 
Total noninterest expense
 $ 52,352 
 $ 43,500  $ 
41,703 
(a) Includes a $675 million FDIC special assessment in 2009. 
(b) Includes foreclosed property expense of $1.4 billion, $213 million and $56 
million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For additional information 

regarding foreclosed property, see Note 13 on pages 200Œ204 of this Annual 
Report. 
2009 compared with 2008 
Total noninterest expense was $52.4 billion, up $8.9 billion, or 20%, 

from the prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of the Wash-

ington Mutual transaction, higher performance-based compensation 

expense, higher FDIC-related costs and increased mortgage servicing 

and default-related expense. These items were offset partially by lower 

headcount-related expense, including salary and benefits but excluding 

performance-based incentives, and other noncompensation costs 

related to employees. 
Compensation expense increased in 2009 compared with the prior year, 
reflecting higher performance-based incentives, as well as the impact of 

the Washington Mutual transaction. Excluding these two items, com-

pensation expense decreased as a result of a reduction in headcount, 

particularly in the wholesale businesses and in Corporate. 
Noncompensation expense increased from the prior year, due pre-
dominantly to the following: the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction; higher ongoing FDIC insurance premiums and an FDIC 

special assessment of $675 million recognized in the second quar-

ter of 2009; higher mortgage servicing and default-related expense, 

which included an increase in foreclosed property expense of $1.2 

billion; higher litigation costs; and the effect of the dissolution of 

the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture. The increase was 

partially offset by lower headcount-related expense, particularly in 

IB, TSS and AM; a decrease in amortization of intangibles, pre-

dominantly related to purchased credit card relationships; lower 

mortgage reinsurance losses; and a decrease in credit card market-

ing expense. For a discussion of amortization of intangibles, refer to 

Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 of this Annual Report. 
For information on merger costs, refer to Note 10 on page 194 of this 
Annual Report. 
2008 compared with 2007  

Total noninterest expense for 2008 was $43.5 billion, up $1.8 

billion, or 4%, from the prior year. The increase was driven by the 

additional operating costs related to the Washington Mutual trans-

action and Bear Stearns merger and investments in the businesses, 

partially offset by lower performance-based incentives. 
Compensation expense increased slightly from the prior year, 
predominantly driven by investments in the businesses, including 

headcount additions associated with the Bear Stearns merger and 

Washington Mutual transaction, largely offset by lower perform-

ance-based incentives. 
Noncompensation expense increased from the prior year as a result 
of the Bear Stearns merger and Washington Mutual transaction. 

Excluding the effect of these transactions, noncompensation ex-

pense decreased due to a net reduction in other expense related to 

litigation; lower credit card and consumer lending marketing ex-

pense; and a decrease in the amortization of intangibles, as certain 

purchased credit card relationships were fully amortized in 2007, 

and the amortization rate for core deposit intangibles declined in 

accordance with the amortization schedule. These decreases were 

offset partially by increases in professional & outside services, 

driven by investments in new product platforms in TSS, and busi-

ness and volume growth in CS credit card processing and IB bro-

kerage, clearing and exchange transaction processing. Also 

contributing to the increases were the following: an increase in 

other expense due to higher mortgage reinsurance losses and 

mortgage servicing expense due to increased delinquencies and 

defaults in RFS; an increase in technology, communications and 

equipment expense, reflecting higher depreciation expense on 

owned automobiles subject to operating leases in RFS, and other 

technology-related investments across the businesses; and an 

increase in occupancy expense, partly related to the expansion of 

RFS™s retail distribution network. For a further discussion of amorti-

zation of intangibles, refer to Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 of this 

Annual Report. 
For information on merger costs, refer to Note 10 on page 194 of 
this Annual Report. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  57
 Income tax expense 
The following table presents the Firm™s income befor
e income tax 
expense/(benefit) and extraordinary gain, income tax ex-
pense/(benefit) and effective tax rate. 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except rate) 
      2009 
       2008      2007 
Income before income tax expense/ 
(benefit) and extraordinary gain 
$ 16,067 
 $  2,773  $ 22,805 
Income tax expense/(benefit)  
 4,415 
      (926)     7,440 
Effective tax rate  
 27.5%
  (33.4)%  
  32.6 
%  2009 compared with 2008 
The change in the effective tax rate compared with the prior year 

was primarily the result of higher reported pretax income and 

changes in the proportion of income subject to U.S. federal and state 

and local taxes. Benefits related to tax-exempt income, business tax 

credits and tax audit settlements increased in 2009 relative to 2008; 

however, the impact of these items on the effective tax rate was 

reduced by the significantly higher level of pretax income in 2009. In 

addition, 2008 reflected the realization of benefits of $1.1 billion 

from the release of deferred tax liabilities associated with the undis-

tributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were deemed 

to be reinvested indefinitely. For a further discussion of income taxes, 

see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 135Œ

139 and Note 27 on pages 234Œ236 of this Annual Report. 
2008 compared with 2007  

The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2008 compared with the 

prior year was the result of significantly lower reported pretax 

income, combined with changes in the proportion of income sub-

ject to U.S. federal taxes. Also contributing to the decrease in the 

effective tax rate was increased business tax credits and the realiza-

tion of a $1.1 billion benefit from the release of deferred tax liabili-

ties. These deferred tax liabilities were associated with the 

undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were 

deemed to be reinvested indefinitely. These decreases were partially 

offset by changes in state and local taxes, and equity losses repre-

senting the Firm™s 49.4% ownership interest in Bear Stearns™ losses 

from April 8 to May 30, 2008, for which no income tax benefit was 

recorded.  
Extraordinary gain  
On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the b
anking 
operations of Washington Mutual. This transaction was accounted for 
under the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. 

The adjusted net asset value of the banking operations after purchase 

accounting adjustments was higher than the consideration paid by 

JPMorgan Chase, resulting in an extraordinary gain. The preliminary 

gain recognized in 2008 was $1.9 billion. In the third quarter of 

2009, the Firm recognized a $76 million increase in the extraordinary 

gain associated with the final purchase accounting adjustments for 

the acquisition. For a further discussion of the Washington Mutual 

transaction, see Note 2 on pages 151Œ156 of this Annual Report. 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 58
 EXPLANATION AND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM™S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES  
The Firm prepares its consolidated financial statements using ac-
counting principles generally accepted in the United States of America 

(ﬁU.S. GAAPﬂ); these financial statements appear on pages 146Œ149 
of this Annual Report. That presentation, which is referred to as 
ﬁreported basis,ﬂ provides the reader with an understanding of the 

Firm™s results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and 

enables a comparison of the Firm™s performance with other compa-
nies™ U.S. GAAP financial statements.  
In addition to analyzing the Firm™s results on a reported basis, man-
agement reviews the Firm™s results and the results of the lines of 

business on a ﬁmanagedﬂ basis, which is a non-GAAP financial 
measure. The Firm™s definition of managed basis starts with the 
reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that 

assume credit card loans securitized by CS remain on the balance 

sheets, and presents revenue on a FTE basis. These adjustments do 
not have any impact on net income as reported by the lines of busi-
ness or by the Firm as a whole.  
The presentation of CS results on a managed basis assumes that 
credit card loans that have been securitized and sold in accordance 
with U.S. GAAP remain on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and that 
the earnings on the securitized loans are classified in the same  

manner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on the Consoli-
dated Balance Sheets. JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of man-

aged basis to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial 

performance of the entire managed credit card portfolio. Opera-
tions are funded and decisions are made about allocating re-
sources, such as employees and capital, based on managed 

financial information. In addition, the same underwriting standards 

and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both loans on the Con-
solidated Balance Sheets and securitized loans. Although securitiza-
tions result in the sale of credit card receivables to a trust, 

JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoing customer relationships, as the 

customers may continue to use their credit cards; accordingly, the 
customer™s credit performance will affect both the securitized loans 
and the loans retained on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

JPMorgan Chase believes managed basis information is useful to 

investors, enabling them to understand both the credit risks 
associated with the loans reported on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets and the Firm™s retained interests in securitized loans. For a 

reconciliation of reported to managed basis results for CS, see CS 

segment results on pages 72Œ74 of this Annual Report. For 
information regarding the securitization process, and loans and 
residual interests sold and securitized, see Note 15 on pages 

206Œ213 of this Annual Report.  
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm™s reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis. 
  (Table continues on next page) 
 2009 
   
2008 
 Year ended December 31, 
Reported Credit  
Fully tax-
equivalent 
Managed Reported Credit 
Fully tax-
equivalent 
 Managed
 (in millions, except per share and ratio data)
 results card (d) adjustments 
basis results card (d) adjustments 
 basis 
 Revenue 
  
       Investment banking fees 
$ 7,087  $        Š   $     Š 
$ 7,087 
   $    5,526  $ Š   $     Š 
$      5,526
  Principal transactions 
 9,796 Š Š 
 9,796 
(10,699) Š Š 
(10,699
 ) 
Lending- and deposit-related fees
  7,045 Š Š 
 7,045 
5,088 Š Š 
5,088
  Asset management, administration   
and commissions 
 12,540 Š Š 
 12,540 
13,943 Š Š 
13,943
  Securities gains 
 1,110 Š Š 
 1,110 
1,560 Š Š 
1,560
  Mortgage fees and related income 
 3,678 Š Š 
 3,678 
3,467 Š Š 
3,467
  Credit card income 
 7,110 (1,494) Š 
 5,616 
7,419 (3,333) Š 
4,086
  Other income 
 916 Š 1,440 
 2,356 
2,169 Š 1,329 
3,498
  Noninterest revenue 
 49,282 (1,494) 1,440 
 49,228 
28,473 (3,333) 1,329 
26,469
  Net interest income 
 51,152 7,937 330 
 59,419 
38,779 6,945 579 
46,303
  Total net revenue 
 100,434 6,443 1,770 
 108,647 
67,252 3,612 1,908 
72,772
  Noninterest expense 
 52,352 Š Š 
 52,352 
43,500 Š Š 
43,500
  Pre-provision profit 
 48,082 6,443 1,770 
 56,295 
23,752 3,612 1,908 
29,272
  Provision for credit losses
  32,015 6,443 Š 
 38,458 
19,445 3,612 Š 
23,057
  Provision for credit losses Œ accounting  
conformity
(a)
  Š Š Š 
 Š 
1,534 Š Š 
1,534
  Income before income tax expense/ 
(benefit) and extraordinary gain 
 16,067 Š 1,770 
 17,837 
2,773 Š 1,908 
4,681
  Income tax expense/(benefit) 
 4,415 Š 1,770 
 6,185 
(926) Š 1,908 
982
  Income before extraordinary gain  11,652 Š Š 
 11,652 
3,699 Š Š 
3,699
  Extraordinary gain
  76 Š Š 
 76 
1,906 Š Š 
1,906
  Net income
 $ 11,728  $        Š  $     Š 
$ 11,728 
 $       5,605 $ Š  $     Š 
$      5,605
  Diluted earnings per share
(b)(c)
 $ 2.24  $        Š  $     Š 
$ 2.24 
 $         0.81 $ Š  $     Š 
$        0.81
  Return on assets
(c)
            0.58%
 NM NM 
           0.55%
     0.21%
 NM NM 
            0.20
 % Overhead ratio 
 52 NM NM 
 48 
 65 NM NM 
60
  Loans Œ period-end 
$  633,458  $ 84,626   $     Š 
$  718,084 
 $   744,898 $  85,571   $     Š 
$  830,469
  Total assets Œ average 
 2,024,201 82,233 Š 
 2,106,434 
 1,791,617 76,904 Š 
1,868,521
  (a) 2008 included an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual™s banking operations. 
(b) Effective January 1, 2009, the Firm implemented new FASB guidance for participating securities. Accordingly, prior-period amounts have been revised. For further 
discussion of the guidance, see Note 25 on page 232 of this Annual Report. 
(c) Based on income before extraordinary gain. 
(d) See pages 72Œ74 of this Annual Report for a discussion of the effect of credit card securitizations on CS.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  59
 On January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted the new consolidation 
accounting guidance for VIE™s.  As the Firm will be deemed to be 

the primary beneficiary of its credit card securitization trusts as a 

result of this guidance, the Firm will consolidate the assets and 

liabilities of these credit card securitization trusts at their carrying 
values on January 1, 2010, and credit cardŒrelated income and 
credit costs associated with these securitization activities will be 

prospectively recorded on the 2010 Consolidated Statements of 

Income in the same classifications that are currently used to report 

such items on a managed basis.  For additional information on the 

new accounting guidance, see ﬁAccounting and reporting devel-

opmentsﬂ on pages 140Œ142 of this Annual Report.  
Total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm 
is presented on a FTE basis. Accordingly, investments that receive 
tax credits and revenue from tax-exempt securities are presented 

in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable invest-
ments and securities. This non-GAAP financial measure allows  
management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from 

both taxable and tax-exempt sources.  
The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is 
recorded within income tax expense.  
Tangible common equity (ﬁTCEﬂ) represents common stockhold-
ers™ equity (i.e., total stockholders™ equity less preferred stock) 

less identifiable intangible assets (other than MSRs) and good-

will, net of related deferred tax liabilities. ROTCE, a non-GAAP 

financial ratio, measures the Firm™s earnings as a percentage of 
TCE and is, in management™s view, another meaningful measure 
to assess the Firm™s use of equity.  
Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at 
the business-segment level, because it believes these other non-

GAAP financial measures provide information to investors about 

the underlying operational performance and trends of the particu-

lar business segment and therefore facilitate a comparison of the 

business segment with the performance of its competitors.  
(Table continued from previous page) 
2007 
 Reported Credit 
Fully tax- 
equivalent 
Managed
 results card
(d)
 adjustments 
basis
       $       6,635   $        Š   $     Š 
$       6,635
   9,015   Š   Š 
9,015
   3,938   Š   Š 
3,938
   14,356   Š   Š 
14,356
   164   Š   Š 
164
   2,118   Š   Š 
2,118
   6,911   (3,255)   Š 
3,656
   1,829   Š   683 
2,512
   44,966   (3,255)   683 
42,394
   26,406   5,635   377 
32,418
   71,372   2,380   1,060 
74,812
   41,703   Š   Š 
41,703
   29,669   2,380   1,060 
33,109
   6,864   2,380   Š 
9,244
        Š   Š   Š 
Š        22,805   Š   1,060 
23,865
   7,440   Š   1,060 
8,500
   15,365   Š   Š 
15,365
   Š   Š   Š 
Š   $     15,365   $        Š   $     Š 
$     15,365
   $         4.33   $        Š   $     Š 
$         4.33
              1.06%
   NM   NM 
             
1.01
 %  58   NM   NM 
                  
56
   $   519,374   $ 72,701   $     Š 
$   592,075
   1,455,044   66,780   Š 
       
1,521,824
    Calculation of certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP metrics
 The table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both the  
following U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP measures. 
Return on common equity 
Net income* / Average common stockholders™ equity 
Return on tangible common equity
(e)
 Net income* / Average tangible common equity 
Return on assets 
Reported net income / Total average assets 
Managed net income / Total average managed assets
(f)
    (including average securitized credit card receivables) 
Overhead ratio 
Total noninterest expense / Total net revenue 
* Represents net income applicable to common equity 
(e)  The Firm uses ROTCE, a non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate  
the Firm™s use of equity and to facilitate comparisons with competitors.  
Refer to the following page for the calculation of average tangible com-
mon equity. 
(f) The Firm uses return on managed assets, a non-GAAP financial measure, to 
evaluate the overall performance of the managed credit card portfolio,  
including securitized credit card loans.
     
 ˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 60
  Average tangible common equity 
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
 2009
2008
Common stockholders™ equity 
$ 145,903
$129,116
Less: Goodwill 
   48,254
  46,068
Less: Certain identifiable intangible assets 
    5,095
5,779
Add: Deferred tax liabilities
(a)
     2,547
2,369
TCE 
$   95,101
$  79,638
(a) Represents deferred tax liabilities related to tax-deductible goodwill and to 
identifiable intangibles created in non-taxable transactions, which are netted 
against goodwill and other intangibles when calculating TCE. 
Impact on ROE of redemption of TARP preferred stock  
issued to the U.S. Treasury 

The calculation of 2009 net income applicable to common equity 

includes a one-time, noncash reduction of $1.1 billion resulting 

from the repayment of TARP preferred capital. Excluding this reduc-

tion, ROE would have been 7% for 2009. The Firm views adjusted 

ROE, a non-GAAP financial measure, as meaningful because it 

enables the comparability to prior periods.  
Year ended December 31, 2009  
(in millions, except ratios) 
 As reported 
 Excluding the 
  TARP redemption
  Return on equity 
   Net income  
 $ 11,728    $ 
11,728
 Less: Preferred stock dividends   1,327   
1,327
 Less: Accelerated amortization 
from redemption of preferred 

stock issued to the U.S. 
Treasury  
  1,112   
Š Net income applicable to 
common equity 
 $ 9,289     $ 
10,401
 Average common stockholders™ 
equity 
 $ 145,903     $ 
145,903
 ROE 
   6%          
7% 
 Impact on diluted earnings per share of redemption o
f TARP 
preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 
Net income applicable to common equity for the year ended Decem-

ber 31, 2009, included a one-time, noncash reduction of approxi-

mately $1.1 billion resulting from the repayment of TARP preferred 

capital. The following table presents the effect on net income appli-

cable to common stockholders and the $0.27 reduction to diluted 

earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2009.  
Year ended December 31, 2009 
(in millions, except per share) As reported 
 Effect of  

 TARP redemption
  Diluted earnings per share 
   
Net income  
  $  11,728 
$         
Š Less: Preferred stock dividends   1,327 
Š Less: Accelerated amortization 
from redemption of preferred 

stock issued to the U.S. Treasury    1,112 
1,112
 Net income applicable to common 
equity   $    9,289 
$   
(1,112
) 
Less:  Dividends and undistributed 
earnings allocated to participating 

securities 
  515 
(62
) 
Net income applicable to common 
stockholders 
  $    8,774 
$   
(1,050
) 
Total weighted average diluted 
shares outstanding 
  3,879.7 
3,879.7
 Net income per share 
  $      2.26  $     
(0.27
) 
 Other financial measures 
The Firm also discloses the allowance for loan losses to total re-
tained loans, excluding home lending purchased credit-impaired 
loans and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust. For a 

further discussion of this credit metric, see Allowance for Credit 

Losses on pages 123Œ125 of this Annual Report. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  61
 BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS   
The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis. The business 
segment financial results presented reflect the current organization 

of JPMorgan Chase. There are six major reportable business seg-

ments: the Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Ser-

vices, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset 

Management, as well as a Corporate/Private Equity segment.  
The business segments are determined based on the products and 

services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect 

the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by 

management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a 

managed basis. 
 (a)  Bear Stearns Private Client Services was renamed to JPMorgan Securities at the beginning of 2010.
 Description of business segment reporting methodology
  Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each 

segment as if it were essentially a stand-alone business. The 

management reporting process that derives business segment 

results allocates income and expense using market-based meth-

odologies. Business segment reporting methodologies used by 

the Firm are discussed below. The Firm continues to assess the 

assumptions, methodologies and reporting classifications used for 

segment reporting, and further refinements may be implemented 

in future periods.  
Revenue sharing  
When business segments join efforts to sell products and services 

to the Firm™s clients, the participating business segments agree to 

share revenue from those transactions. The segment results reflect 

these revenue-sharing agreements.  
Funds transfer pricing  
Funds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest income and ex-

pense to each business and transfer the primary interest rate risk 

exposures to the Treasury group within the Corporate/Private Equity 
business segment. The allocation process is unique to each busi-

ness segment and considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk and 

regulatory requirements of that segment™s stand-alone peers. This 

process is overseen by senior management and reviewed by the 

Firm™s Asset-Liability Committee (ﬁALCOﬂ). Business segments may 

retain certain interest rate exposures, subject to management 

approval, that would be expected in the normal operation of a 

similar peer business.  
Capital allocation  
Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into considera-

tion stand-alone peer comparisons, economic risk measures and 

regulatory capital requirements. The amount of capital assigned to 

each business is referred to as equity. For a further discussion, see 

Capital managementŒLine of business equity on pages 92Œ93 of 

this Annual Report.  
Expense allocation  
Where business segments use services provided by support units 

within the Firm, the costs of those support units are allocated to 

the business segments. The expense is allocated based on their 
      
JPMorgan Chase
       
        
          
        
          
Investment 
Bank 
 Retail  
Financial 
Services 
 Card  
Services 
  Commercial 
Banking 
 Treasury & 
Securities 
Services 
 Asset 
Management 
Businesses: 
Ł Investment 

   Banking 
   - Advisory 
   - Debt and equity
      underwriting 
Ł Market-Making 
   and Trading 
   - Fixed Income 
   - Equities 
Ł Corporate Lending
 Ł Principal Investing
 Ł Prime Services 
Ł Research 
 Businesses: 
Ł Retail Banking 
   - Consumer and 
     Business  
     Banking (includ-
      ing Business  
     Banking loans) 
Ł Consumer  
   Lending: 
   - Loan originations
      and balances  
    (including home
      lending, student,
      auto and other 

     loans) 
   - Mortgage  
     production  
     and servicing 
 Businesses: 

Ł Credit Card 
Ł Merchant 
   Acquiring 
  Businesses: 

Ł Middle Market 

   Banking 
Ł Commercial Term
    Lending 

Ł Mid-Corporate 
   Banking 
Ł Real Estate 
   Banking 
 
 
   Businesses: 
Ł Treasury Services 
Ł Worldwide 
   Securities Services
  Businesses:
 Ł Investment 
   Management: 
   - Institutional 
   - Retail 
Ł Private Bank 
Ł Private Wealth 
   Management 
Ł Bear Stearns  
   Private Client  
   Services
(a)
  ˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 62
 actual cost or the lower of actual cost or market, as well as upon 
usage of the services provided. In contrast, certain other expense 

related to certain corporate functions, or to certain technology and 

operations, are not allocated to the business segments and are 

retained in Corporate. Retained expense includes: parent company 

costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone 
businesses; adjustments to align certain corporate staff, technology 

and operations allocations with market prices; and other one-time 

items not aligned with the business segments.  
 Segment results Œ Managed basis
(a)
 The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated.
 Year ended December 31, 
Total net revenue 
 Noninterest expense 
 (in millions) 
 2009 
 2008  2007 
 2009 
 2008  
2007
 Investment Bank
(b)
 $ 28,109
  $ 12,335  $ 18,291 
 $ 15,401
  $ 13,844  $ 
13,074
 Retail Financial Services 
 32,692
   23,520   17,305 
16,748
   12,077   
9,905
 Card Services 
 20,304
   16,474   15,235 
5,381
   5,140   
4,914
 Commercial Banking 
 5,720
   4,777   4,103 
2,176
   1,946   
1,958
 Treasury & Securities Services 
 7,344
   8,134   6,945 
5,278
   5,223   
4,580
 Asset Management 
 7,965
   7,584   8,635 
5,473
   5,298   
5,515
 Corporate/Private Equity
(b)
  6,513
   (52)       4,298 
1,895
   (28)   
1,757
 Total
  
$  108,647
  $ 72,772  $ 74,812 
 $ 52,352
  $ 43,500  $ 
41,703
  Year ended December 31, 
Net income/(loss) 
 Return on equity 
 (in millions) 
 2009 
 2008  2007 
 2009 
 2008 2007 
Investment Bank
(b)
 $ 6,899
   $ (1,175) 
    $ 3,139 
21%
(5)%15
 % 
Retail Financial Services 
 97
   880 
  2,925 
Š 5 
18
  Card Services 
 (2,225)
   780 
  2,919 
(15)
 5 
21
  Commercial Banking 
 1,271
   1,439 
  1,134 
16
 20 
17
  Treasury & Securities Services 
 1,226
   1,767 
  1,397 
25
 47 
47
  Asset Management 
 1,430
   1,357 
  1,966 
20
 24 
51
  Corporate/Private Equity
(b)(c)
  3,030
   557 
  1,885 
NM
 NM 
NM
  Total
  
$  11,728
    $ 5,605 
    $ 15,365 
6%
4%
 13
 % 
(a) Represents reported results on a tax-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of credit card securitizations. 
(b) In the second quarter of 2009, IB began reporting its credit reimbursement from TSS as a component of its total net revenue, whereas TSS continues to report its credit 
reimbursement to IB as a separate line item on its income statement (not part of total net revenue). Corporate/Private Equity includes an adjustment to offset IB's  

inclusion of the credit reimbursement in total net revenue. Prior periods have been revised for IB and Corporate/Private Equity to reflect this presentation. 
(c) Net income included an extraordinary gain of $76 million and $1.9 billion related to the Washington Mutual transaction for 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  63
 INVESTMENT BANK 
J.P. Morgan is one of the world™s leading investment 
banks, with deep client relationships and broad prod-
uct capabilities. The Investment Bank™s clients are 
corporations, financial institutions, governments and 
institutional investors. The Firm offers a full range of 
investment banking products and services in all major 
capital markets, including advising on corporate strat-
egy and structure, capital raising in equity and debt 
markets, sophisticated risk management, market-
making in cash securities and derivative instruments, 
prime brokerage, research and thought leadership.  
IB also commits the Firm™s own capital to principal 
investing and trading activities on a limited basis. 
  Selected income statement data 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios) 
 2009
2008
(e)
 2007 
Revenue 
 Investment banking fees  
 $  7,169
$ 
5,907 
$  6,616 
 Principal transactions
(a)
  8,154
(7,042
) 
4,409 
 Lending- and deposit-related fees  
 664
463
 446 
 Asset management, administration 
   and commissions 
 2,650
3,0
64
 2,701 
 All other income
(b)
  
 (115) 
(341
) 43 
Noninterest revenue  
 18,522
2,051
 14,215 
 Net interest income  
 9,587
10,284 
 4,076 
 Total net revenue
(c)
  
 28,109
12,335 
 18,291 
 Provision for credit losses  
 2,279
2,015 
 654 
 Noninterest expense 
  
Compensation expense  
 9,334
7,701
 7,965 
 Noncompensation expense  
 6,067
6,143
 5,109 
 Total noninterest expense  
 15,401
13,844
 13,074 
 Income/(loss) before income tax  
   expense/(benefit)  
 10,429
(3,524
) 
4,563 
 Income tax expense/(benefit)
(d)
  3,530
(2,349
) 
1,424 
 Net income/(loss) 
 $  6,899
$ 
(1,175
)  $  
3,139 
 Financial ratios  
   
ROE  
 21% 
(5 
)%
15 
% ROA  
 0.99
(0.14
) 
0.45 
 Overhead ratio  
 55
112
 71 
 Compensation expense as % of total 
   net revenue 
 33
62
 44 
 (a)  The 2009 results reflect modest net gains on legacy leveraged lending and mort-
gage-related positions, compared with net markdowns of $10.6 billion and $2.7 
billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
(b) 
TSS was charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed 
within IB credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS. IB recognizes this 

credit reimbursement in its credit portfolio business in all other income. Prior peri-

ods have been revised to conform to the current presentation.
  
(c)  Total net revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments, predominantly due to income 
tax credits related to affordable housing and alternative energy investments as well 
as tax-exempt income from municipal bond investments of $1.4 billion, $1.7 billion 
and $927 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  
(d)  The income tax benefit in 2008 includes the result of reduced deferred tax liabilities 
on overseas earnings.  
(e)  Results for 2008 include seven months of the combined Firm™s (JPMorgan Chase & 
Co.™s and Bear Stearns™) results and five months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results. 
2007 reflects heritage JPMorgan Chase & Co. results only.  
 The following table provides IB™s total net revenue by business segment. 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
 2009
2008
(d)
 2007 
Revenue by business 
 Investment banking fees: 
     Advisory 
$  1,867
$  
2,008
$  2,273 
   Equity underwriting 
 2,641
 1,749
1,713 
   Debt underwriting 
 2,661
2,150
2,630 
Total investment banking fees
  7,169
 5,907
6,616 
Fixed income markets
(a)
  17,564
1,957
6,339 
Equity markets
(b)
  4,393
3,611
3,903 
Credit portfolio
(c)
  (1,017) 
860
1,433 
Total net revenue
 $ 28,109
$12,
335
$18,291 
Revenue by region
   Americas 
$ 15,156
$  2,
610
$  8,245 
Europe/Middle East/Africa 
 9,790
7,
710
7,330 
Asia/Pacific 
 3,163
2,
015
2,716 
Total net revenue
 $ 28,109
$12,
335
$18,291 
(a)  Fixed income markets primarily include client and portfolio management 
revenue related to market-making across global fixed income markets, includ-
ing foreign exchange, interest rate, credit and commodities markets.  
(b)  Equities markets primarily include client and portfolio management revenue 
related to market-making across global equity products, including cash instru-
ments, derivatives and convertibles.  
(c)  Credit portfolio revenue includes net interest income, fees and the impact of 
loan sales activity, as well as gains or losses on securities received as part of a 

loan restructuring, for IB™s credit portfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also in-
cludes the results of risk management related to the Firm™s lending and deriva-

tive activities, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment, which is the 
component of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the 
counterparty. Additionally, credit portfolio revenue incorporates an adjustment 

to the valuation of the Firm™s derivative liabilities. See pages 101Œ125 of the 
Credit Risk Management section of this Annual Report for further discussion.  
(d)  Results for 2008 include seven months of the combined Firm™s (JPMorgan 
Chase & Co.™s and Bear Stearns™) results and five months of heritage JPMorgan 

Chase & Co. results. 2007 reflects heritage JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s results 
only
.  
2009 compared with 2008    
Net income was $6.9 billion, compared with a net loss of $1.2 

billion in the prior year. These results reflected significantly higher 

total net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense and 

a higher provision for credit losses.  
Total net revenue was $28.1 billion, compared with $12.3 billion in 
the prior year. Investment banking fees were up 21% to $7.2 

billion, consisting of debt underwriting fees of $2.7 billion (up 

24%), equity underwriting fees of $2.6 billion (up 51%), and 

advisory fees of $1.9 billion (down 7%). Fixed Income Markets 

revenue was $17.6 billion, compared with $2.0 billion in the prior 

year, reflecting improved performance across most products and 

modest net gains on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage-

related positions, compared with net markdowns of $10.6 billion in 

the prior year. These results also included losses of $1.0 billion from 

the tightening of the Firm™s credit spread on certain structured 

liabilities, compared with gains of $814 million in the prior year.
 Equity Markets revenue was $4.4 billion, up 22% from the prior 

year, driven by strong client revenue across products, particularly 

prime services, and improved trading results. These results also 

included losses of $536 million from the tightening of the Firm™s 

credit spread on certain structured liabilities, compared with gains 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 64
 of $510 million in the prior year. Credit Portfolio revenue was a loss 
of $1.0 billion versus a gain of $860 million in the prior year, driven 

by mark-to-market losses on hedges of retained loans compared 

with gains in the prior year, partially offset by the positive net 

impact of credit spreads on derivative assets and liabilities.  
The provision for credit losses was $2.3 billion, compared with $2.0 
billion in the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the credit 

environment. The allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans 

retained was 8.25%, compared with 4.83% in the prior year. Net 

charge-offs were $1.9 billion, compared with $105 million in the 

prior year. Total nonperforming assets were $4.2 billion, compared 

with $2.5 billion in the prior year.  
Noninterest expense was $15.4 billion, up $1.6 billion, or 11%, 
from the prior year, driven by higher performance-based compensa-

tion expense, partially offset by lower headcount-related expense.  
Return on Equity was 21% on $33.0 billion of average allocated 
capital, compared with negative 5% on $26.1 billion of average 

allocated capital in the prior year.
 2008 compared with 2007 
 Net loss was $1.2 billion, a decrease of $4.3 billion from the prior 
year, driven by lower total net revenue, a higher provision for credit 
losses and higher noninterest expense, partially offset by a reduc-

tion in deferred tax liabilities on overseas earnings. 
Total net revenue was $12.3 billion, down $6.0 billion, or 33%, 
from the prior year. Investment banking fees were $5.9 billion, 

down 11% from the prior year, driven by lower debt underwriting 

and advisory fees reflecting reduced market activity. Debt under-

writing fees were $2.2 billion, down 18% from the prior year, 

driven by lower loan syndication and bond underwriting fees. 

Advisory fees of $2.0 billion declined 12% from the prior year. 

Equity underwriting fees were $1.7 billion, up 2% from the prior 

year driven by improved market share. Fixed Income Markets reve-

nue was $2.0 billion, compared with $6.3 billion in the prior year. 

The decrease was driven by $5.9 billion of net markdowns on 

mortgage-related exposures and $4.7 billion of net markdowns on 

leveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments. Revenue 

was also adversely impacted by additional losses and costs to 

reduce risk related to Bear Stearns™ positions. These results were 

offset by record performance in rates and currencies, credit trading, 

commodities and emerging markets as well as $814 million of 

gains from the widening of the Firm™s credit spread on certain 

structured liabilities and derivatives. Equity Markets revenue was 

$3.6 billion, down 7% from the prior year, reflecting weak trading 

results, partially offset by strong client revenue across products 

including prime services, as well as $510 million of gains from the 

widening of the Firm™s credit spread on certain structured liabilities 

and derivatives. Credit portfolio revenue was $860 million, down 

40%, driven by losses from widening counterparty credit spreads. 
The provision for credit losses was $2.0 billion, an increase of $1.4 

billion from the prior year, predominantly reflecting a higher allow-

ance for credit losses, driven by a weakening credit environment, as 

well as the effect of the transfer of $4.9 billion of funded and un-

funded leveraged lending commitments to retained loans from held-

for-sale in the first quarter of 2008. Net charge-offs for the year were 

$105 million, compared with $36 million in the prior year. Total 

nonperforming assets were $2.5 billion, an increase of $2.0 billion 

compared with the prior year, reflecting a weakening credit environ-

ment. The allowance for loan losses to average loans was 4.71% for 

2008, compared with a ratio of 2.14% in the prior year. 
Noninterest expense was $13.8 billion, up $770 million, or 6%, from 
the prior year, reflecting higher noncompensation expense driven 

primarily by additional expense relating to the Bear Stearns merger, 

offset partially by lower performance-based compensation expense.  
Return on equity was negative 5% on $26.1 billion of average allocated 
capital, compared with 15% on $21.0 billion in the prior year. 
Selected metrics 
Year ended December 31, 
   
(in millions, except headcount)
  2009
        2008 2007
Selected balance sheet data  
(period-end) 
   
Loans: 
   
Loans retained
(a)
   $ 45,544
   $ 71,357   $  67,528
Loans held-for-sale and loans at
    fair value 
 3,567
 13,660  22,283
Total loans 
 49,111
 85,017  89,811
Equity 
  $ 33,000
   $ 33,000   $ 21,000
Selected balance sheet data  
(average)
    
Total assets 
  $ 699,039
   $ 832,729   $ 
700,565 
Trading assets Œ debt and equity 
instruments 
 273,624
 350,812 359,775
Trading assets Œ derivative  
receivables 
 96,042
 112,337 63,198
Loans: 
   
Loans retained
(a)
  62,722
 73,108 62,247
Loans held-for-sale and loans at 
    fair value 
 7,589
 18,502 17,723
Total loans 
 70,311
 91,610 79,970
Adjusted assets
(b)
  538,724
 679,780 
611,749 
Equity 
 33,000
 26,098 21,000
Headcount
  24,654
 27,938 25,543
(a) Loans retained included credit portfolio loans, leveraged leases and other 
accrual loans, and excluded loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value.  
(b) Adjusted assets, a non-GAAP financial measure, equals total assets minus  
(1) securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed less 
securities sold, not yet purchased; (2) assets of variable interest entities 
(ﬁVIEsﬂ); (3) cash and securities segregated and on deposit for regulatory and 

other purposes; (4) goodwill and intangibles; (5) securities received as collat-
eral; and (6) investments purchased under the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper 
Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility (ﬁAML Facilityﬂ). The amount of 

adjusted assets is presented to assist the reader in comparing IB™s asset and 
capital levels to other investment banks in the securities industry. Asset-to-
equity leverage ratios are commonly used as one measure to assess a com-

pany™s capital adequacy. IB believes an adjusted asset amount that excludes 
the assets discussed above, which were considered to have a low risk profile, 
provides a more meaningful measure of balance sheet leverage in the securi-
ties industry.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  65
 Selected metrics 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios) 
2009
  2008 2007 
Credit data and quality statistics 
   
Net charge-offs  
$  1,904
  $    105
 $     36 
Nonperforming assets:  
   
Nonperforming loans: 
   
Nonperforming loans retained
(a)(b)
  
3,196
 1,143 303 
Nonperforming loans held-for-sale and
    loans at fair value  
308
 32 50 
   Total nonperforming loans 
3,504
 1,175 353 
Derivative receivables 
529
 1,079 29 
Assets acquired in loan satisfactions 
203
 247 71 
   Total nonperforming assets 
4,236
 2,501 453 
Allowance for credit losses:  
    
Allowance for loan losses  
3,756
 3,444
 1,329 
Allowance for lending-related  

  commitments  
485
 360
 560 
   Total allowance for credit losses 
4,241
 3,804
 1,889 
Net charge-off rate
(a)(c)
 3.04
%   0.14
% 0.06%
 Allowance for loan losses to period-end 
     loans retained
(a)(d)
 8.25
  4.83
 1.97 
Allowance for loan losses to average 

     loans retained
(a)(c)
 5.99
  4.71
(h)
 2.14
 Allowance for loan losses to  

     nonperforming loans retained
(a)(b)
 118
 301
 439 
Nonperforming loans to total period-end 
loans 
7.13
 1.38
 0.39 
Nonperforming loans to average loans 
4.98
 1.28
 0.44 
Market riskŒaverage trading and 
credit portfolio VaR Œ 99%  
confidence level
(d)
  
   
Trading activities:  
   
Fixed income  
$    221
 $    181
 $     80 
Foreign exchange  
30
 34
 23 
Equities  
75
 57
 48 
Commodities and other  
32
 32
 33 
Diversification
(e)
  
(131
) 
(108
) (77) 
Total trading VaR
(f)
  
227
 196
 107 
Credit portfolio VaR
(g)
 101
 69
 17 
Diversification
(e)
 (80
) 
(63
) (18) 
Total trading and credit portfolio VaR 
$    248
 $    202
 $   106 
(a) Loans retained included credit portfolio loans, leveraged leases and other 
accrual loans, and excluded loans held-for-sale and loans accounted for at 
fair value.  
(b) Allowance for loan losses of $1.3 billion and $430 million were held against 
these nonperforming loans at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(c) Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating 
the allowance coverage ratio and net charge-off rate.  
(d) Results for 2008 include seven months of the combined Firm™s (JPMorgan 
Chase & Co.™s and Bear Stearns™) results and five months of heritage JPMor-
gan Chase & Co.™s results 
only
. 2007 reflects heritage JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
results. For a more complete description of value-at-risk (ﬁVaRﬂ), see pages 
126Œ130 of this Annual Report.  
(e) Average VaRs were less than the sum of the VaRs of their market risk compo-
nents, due to risk offsets resulting from portfolio diversification. The diversifi-

cation effect reflected the fact that the risks were not perfectly correlated. For 

further discussion of VaR, see pages 126Œ130 of this Annual Report. The risk 
of a portfolio of positions is usually less than the sum of the risks of the posi-
tions themselves.  
(f) Trading VaR includes predominantly all trading activities in IB; however, 
particular risk parameters of certain products are not fully captured, for ex-

ample, correlation risk. Trading VaR does not include VaR related to held-for-
sale funded loans and unfunded commitments, nor the debit valuation ad-

justments (ﬁDVAﬂ) taken on derivative and structured liabilities to reflect the 
credit quality of the Firm. See VaR discussion on pages 126Œ130 and the DVA 
Sensitivity table on page 130 of this Annual Report for further details. Trading 

VaR also does not include the MSR portfolio or VaR related to other corporate 
functions, such as Corporate/Private Equity. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 
2008, trading VaR includes the estimated credit spread sensitivity of certain 

mortgage products. 
(g) Included VaR on derivative credit valuation adjustments (ﬁCVAﬂ), hedges of 
the CVA and mark-to-market hedges of the retained loan portfolio, which 

were all reported in principal transactions revenue. This VaR does not include 

the retained loan portfolio.  
(h) Excluding the impact of a loan originated in March 2008 to Bear Stearns, the 
adjusted ratio would be 4.84% for 2008. The average balance of the loan 

extended to Bear Stearns was $1.9 billion for 2008. 
   Market shares and rankings
(a)
         2009
 2008
 2007
  Market 
 Market 
 Market 
   December 31, 
share 
Rankings
 share 
Rankings
 share 
Rankings
   Global debt,  
    equity and  
    equity-related 
 10% 
#1 
9% 
#1 
8% 
#2 
  Global syndicated
     loans 
10 
1 11 
1 
13 
1 
  Global long-term 
     debt
(b)
 9 1 
9 
3 
7 
3 
  Global equity and
     equity-related
(c)
 13 
1 10 
1 
9 
2 
  Global announced
     M&A
(d)
 24
 3 
28 
2 
27 
4 
  U.S. debt, equity
     and equity- 
    related 
14 
1 15 
2 
10 
2 
  U.S. syndicated 
     loans 
23
 1 
24 
1 
24 
1 
  U.S. long-term  
    debt
(b)
 14 
1 15 
2 
10 
2 
  U.S. equity and 
     equity-related
(c)
 13
 1 
11 
1 
11 
5 
  U.S. announced 
    M&A
(d)
 35 
3 35 
2 
28 
3 
  (a)  Source: Thomson Reuters. Results for 2008 are pro forma for the Bear Stearns 
  merger. Results for 2007 represent heritage JPMorgan Chase & Co. only.  
 (b)  Includes asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and municipal securities. 
  (c)  Includes rights offerings; U.S.- domiciled equity and equity-related transactions.  
 (d)  Global announced M&A is based on rank value; all other rankings are based on 
 proceeds, with full credit to each book manager/equal if joint. Because of joint  
 assignments, market share of all participants will add up to more than 100%.  
 Global and U.S. announced M&A market share and rankings for 2008 and 2007  
 include transactions withdrawn since December 31, 2008 and 2007. U.S. announced 
 M&A represents any U.S. involvement ranking.  
 According to Thomson Reuters, in 2009, the Firm was ranked 
#1 in Global Debt, Equity and Equity-related; #1 in Global Eq-
uity and Equity-related; #1 in Global Long-Term Debt: #1 in 
Global Syndicated Loans and #3 in Global Announced M&A, 
based on volume. 
According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #1 in Global  
Investment Banking Fees generated during 2009, based on 
revenue.  
    
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 66
 RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES 
Retail Financial Services, which includes the Retail Banking 
and Consumer Lending businesses, serves consumers and 
businesses through personal service at bank branches and 
through ATMs, online banking and telephone banking, as 
well as through auto dealerships and school financial-aid 
offices. Customers can use more than 5,100 bank branches 
(third-largest nationally) and 15,400 ATMs (second-largest 
nationally), as well as online and mobile banking around 
the clock. More than 23,900 branch salespeople assist cus-
tomers with checking and savings accounts, mortgages, 
home equity and business loans, and investments across 
the 23-state footprint from New York and Florida to Cali-
fornia. Consumers also can obtain loans through more than 
15,700 auto dealerships and nearly 2,100 schools and uni-
versities nationwide.  
On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking 
operations of Washington Mutual from the FDIC for $1.9 billion 

through a purchase of substantially all of the assets and assumption 

of specified liabilities of Washington Mutual. Washington Mutual™s 

banking operations consisted of a retail bank network of 2,244 

branches, a nationwide credit card lending business, a multi-family 

and commercial real estate lending business, and nationwide mort-

gage banking activities. The transaction expanded the Firm™s U.S. 

consumer branch network in California, Florida, Washington, Geor-

gia, Idaho, Nevada and Oregon and created the nation™s third-largest 

branch network.  
Selected income statement data 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios) 
2009 
2008 2007 
Revenue 
   
Lending- and deposit-related fees 
$   3,969 
$  
2,546 
 $ 
1,881 
 Asset management, administration  
and commissions 
1,674 
1,510 1,275 
Mortgage fees and related income 
3,794 
3,621 2,094 
Credit card income 
1,635 
939 646 
Other income 
1,128 
739 883 
Noninterest revenue  
12,200 
9,355 6,779 
Net interest income  
20,492 
14,165 10,526 
Total net revenue  
32,692 
23,520 17,305 
Provision for credit losses  
15,940 
9,905 
2,610 
 Noninterest expense  
   
Compensation expense 
6,712 
5,068 4,369 
Noncompensation expense 
9,706 
6,612 5,071 
Amortization of intangibles  
330 
397 465 
Total noninterest expense  
16,748 
12,077 9,905 
Income before income tax  
expense/(benefit) 
    4 
1,538 
  
4,790 
 Income tax expense/(benefit) 
(93) 
658 
1,865 
 Net income 
 $       97 
 $     880
  $ 
2,925 
 Financial ratios 
    
ROE 
 Š% 5%
 18 
% Overhead ratio  
51 
51 
57 
 Overhead ratio excluding core 
deposit intangibles
(a)
 50 
50 
55 
 (a) Retail Financial Services uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization 
of core deposit intangibles (ﬁCDIﬂ)), a non-GAAP financial measure, to evalu-
ate the underlying expense trends of the business. Including CDI amortization 
expense in the overhead ratio calculation would result in a higher overhead 

ratio in the earlier years and a lower overhead ratio in later years; this method 

would therefore result in an improving overhead ratio over time, all things 
remaining equal. The non-GAAP ratio excludes Retail Banking™s core deposit 
intangible amortization expense related to the Bank of New York transaction 

and the Bank One merger of $328 million, $394 million and $460 million for 
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  
2009 compared with 2008  
Net income was $97 million, a decrease of $783 million from the 

prior year, as the increase in provision for credit losses more than 

offset the positive impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.  
Net revenue was $32.7 billion, an increase of $9.2 billion, or 39%, 
from the prior year. Net interest income was $20.5 billion, up by 

$6.3 billion, or 45%, reflecting the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction, and wider loan and deposit spreads. Noninter-

est revenue was $12.2 billion, up by $2.8 billion, or 30%, driven by 

the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider margins 

on mortgage originations and higher net mortgage servicing reve-

nue, partially offset by $1.6 billion in estimated losses related to 

the repurchase of previously sold loans. 
The provision for credit losses was $15.9 billion, an increase of 
$6.0 billion from the prior year. Weak economic conditions and 

housing price declines continued to drive higher estimated losses 

for the home equity and mortgage loan portfolios. The provision 

included an addition of $5.8 billion to the allowance for loan 

losses, compared with an addition of $5.0 billion in the prior year. 

Included in the 2009 addition to the allowance for loan losses was 

a $1.6 billion increase related to estimated deterioration in the 

Washington Mutual purchased credit-impaired portfolio. To date, 

no charge-offs have been recorded on purchased credit-impaired 

loans; see page 70 of this Annual Report for the net charge-off 

rates, as reported. Home equity net charge-offs were $4.7 billion 

(4.32% excluding purchased credit-impaired loans), compared with 

$2.4 billion (2.39% excluding purchased credit-impaired loans) in 

the prior year. Subprime mortgage net charge-offs were $1.6 billion 

(11.86% excluding purchased credit-impaired loans), compared 

with $933 million (6.10% excluding purchased credit-impaired 

loans) in the prior year. Prime mortgage net charge-offs were $1.9 

billion (3.05% excluding purchased credit-impaired loans), com-

pared with $526 million (1.18% excluding purchased credit-

impaired loans) in the prior year. 
Noninterest expense was $16.7 billion, an increase of $4.7 billion, 
or 39%. The increase reflected the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction and higher servicing and default-related  

expense.
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  67
 2008 compared with 2007  
Net income was $880 million, a decrease of $2.0 billion, or 70%, 

from the prior year, as a significant increase in the provision for credit 

losses was partially offset by positive MSR risk management results 

and the positive impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. 
Total net revenue was $23.5 billion, an increase of $6.2 billion, or 
36%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $14.2 billion, up 

$3.6 billion, or 35%, benefiting from the Washington Mutual trans-

action, wider loan and deposit spreads, and higher loan and deposit 

balances. Noninterest revenue was $9.4 billion, up $2.6 billion, or 

38%, as positive MSR risk management results, the impact of the 

Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage origination volume 

and higher deposit-related fees were partially offset by an increase in 

losses related to the repurchase of previously sold loans and mark-

downs on the mortgage warehouse.   
The provision for credit losses was $9.9 billion, an increase of $7.3 
billion from the prior year. Delinquency rates have increased due to 

overall weak economic conditions, while housing price declines 

have continued to drive increased loss severities, particularly for 

high loan-to-value home equity and mortgage loans. The provision 

includes $4.7 billion in additions to the allowance for loan losses 

for the heritage Chase home equity and mortgage portfolios. Home 

equity net charge-offs were $2.4 billion (2.23% net charge-off rate; 

2.39% excluding purchased credit-impaired loans), compared with 

$564 million (0.62% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Sub-

prime mortgage net charge-offs were $933 million (5.49% net 

charge-off rate; 6.10% excluding purchased credit-impaired loans), 

compared with $157 million (1.55% net charge-off rate) in the 

prior year. Prime mortgage net charge-offs were $526 million 

(1.05% net charge-off rate; 1.18% excluding purchased credit-

impaired loans), compared with $33 million (0.13% net charge-off 

rate) in the prior year. The provision for credit losses was also 

affected by an increase in estimated losses for the auto, student 

and business banking loan portfolios.  
Total noninterest expense was $12.1 billion, an increase of $2.2 
billion, or 22%, from the prior year, reflecting the impact of the 

Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage reinsurance losses, 

higher mortgage servicing expense and investments in the retail 

distribution network.  
Selected metrics
 Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except headcount and
  ratios) 
2009
         2008 2007 
Selected balance sheet data 
(period-end) 
   Assets   
$  387,269
  $ 
419,831 
 $ 
256,351 
 Loans:  
   Loans retained  
340,332
 368,786 211,324 
Loans held-for-sale and loans
    at fair value
(a)
 14,612
 9,996 16,541 
Total loans  
354,944
 378,782 227,865 
Deposits  
357,463
 360,451 221,129 
Equity  
25,000
 25,000 16,000 
Selected balance sheet data 
 (average) 
   
Assets  
$  407,497
  $ 304,442 $ 
241,112 
 Loans:  
   Loans retained  
354,789
 257,083 191,645 
Loans held-for-sale and loans
    at fair value
(a)
 18,072
 17,056 22,587 
Total loans  
372,861
 274,139 214,232 
Deposits  
367,696
 258,362 218,062 
Equity  
25,000
 19,011 16,000 
Headcount  
108,971
 102,007 69,465 
Credit data and quality 
statistics 
   Net charge-offs 
$    10,113
  $    
4,877 
 $   
  1,350 
 Nonperforming loans: 
   Nonperforming loans retained
 10,611
 6,548 2,760 
Nonperforming loans held-for-
    sale and loans at fair value 
234
 236 68 
Total nonperforming loans
(b)(c)(d)
 10,845
 6,784 2,828 
Nonperforming assets
(b)(c)(d)
 12,098
 9,077 3,378 
Allowance for loan losses  
14,776
 8,918 2,668 
Net charge-off rate
(f)
 2.85%
    1.90%
    0.70%
 Net charge-off rate excluding 
purchased credit-impaired 
loans
(e)(f)
 3.75
 2.08 0.70 
Allowance for loan losses to 
ending loans
 retained
(f)
 4.34
 2.42 1.26 
Allowance for loan losses to 
ending loans excluding  
purchased credit-impaired 
loans
(e)(f)
 5.09
 3.19 1.26 
Allowance for loan losses to  
nonperforming loans
  
retained
(b)(e)(f)
 124
 136 97 
Nonperforming loans to total 
loans  
3.06
 1.79 
 1.24 
 Nonperforming loans to total 
loans excluding purchased 
credit-impaired loans 
3.96
 2.34 1.24 
(a) Loans at fair value consist of prime mortgage loans originated with the intent 
to sell that are accounted for at fair value and classified as trading assets on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These loans totaled $12.5 billion, $8.0 bil-

lion and $12.6 billion at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Average balances of these loans totaled $15.8 billion, $14.2 billion and $11.9 
billion for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  
(b) Excludes purchased credit-impaired loans that were acquired as part of the 
Washington Mutual transaction. These loans were accounted for on a pool 

basis, and the pools are considered to be performing.  
(c) Certain of these loans are classified as trading assets on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. 
(d) At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, nonperforming loans and assets 
excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $9.0 
billion, $3.0 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively; (2) real estate owned insured 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 68
 by U.S. government agencies of $579 million, $364 million and $452 million, 
respectively; and (3) student loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, 
which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Edu-
cation Loan Program, of $542 million, $437 million and $417 million, respec-

tively. These amounts are excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 
(e) Excludes the impact of purchased credit-impaired loans that were acquired as 
part of the Washington Mutual transaction. These loans were accounted for at 

fair value on the acquisition date, which incorporated management's estimate, 
as of that date, of credit losses over the remaining life of the portfolio. During 
2009, an allowance for loan losses of $1.6 billion was recorded for these 

loans, which has also been excluded from applicable ratios. To date, no 

charge-offs have been recorded for these loans. 
(f) Loans held-for-sale and loans accounted for at fair value were excluded when 
calculating the allowance coverage ratio and net charge-off rate. 
 Retail Banking 
Selected income statement data 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios)  
2009
2008
2007 
Noninterest revenue  
$   7,169
$  4,9
51 
$ 
3,763 
 Net interest income  
10,781
7,6596,193 
Total net revenue  
17,950
 12,6109,956 
Provision for credit losses  
1,142
44979 
Noninterest expense  
    10,357
7,2326,166 
Income before income tax expense  
6,451
   4,
929 
   3,711 
Net income  
$   3,903
$  
2,982 
$ 2,245 
Overhead ratio  
58%
 57%
 62%
 Overhead ratio excluding core 
deposit intangibles
(a)
  
56
 5457 
(a) Retail Banking uses the overhead ratio (excluding the amortization of CDI), a 
non-GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the underlying expense trends of 
the business. Including CDI amortization expense in the overhead ratio calcu-
lation would result in a higher overhead ratio in the earlier years and a lower 
overhead ratio in later years; this method would therefore result in an improv-

ing overhead ratio over time, all things remaining equal. The non-GAAP ratio 
excludes Retail Banking™s core deposit intangible amortization expense re-
lated to the Bank of New York transaction and the Bank One merger of $328 

million, $394 million and $460 million for the years ended December 31, 

2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  
2009 compared with 2008   
Retail Banking
 reported net income of $3.9 billion, up by $921 
million, or 31%, from the prior year. Total net revenue was $18.0 

billion, up by $5.3 billion, or 42%, from the prior year. The increase 

reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider 

deposit spreads, higher average deposit balances and higher debit 

card income. The provision for credit losses was $1.1 billion, com-

pared with $449 million in the prior year, reflecting higher esti-

mated losses in the Business Banking portfolio. Noninterest 

expense was $10.4 billion, up by $3.1 billion, or 43%. The increase 

reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher 

FDIC insurance premiums and higher headcount-related expense. 
2008 compared with 2007  
Retail Banking net income was $3.0 billion, up $737 million, or 

33%, from the prior year. Total net revenue was $12.6 billion, up 

$2.7 billion, or 27%, reflecting the impact of the Washington 

Mutual transaction, wider deposit spreads, higher deposit-related 

fees, and higher deposit balances. The provision for credit losses 

was $449 million, compared with $79 million in the prior year, 

reflecting an increase in the allowance for loan losses for Business 

Banking loans due to higher estimated losses on the portfolio. 

Noninterest expense was $7.2 billion, up $1.1 billion, or 17%, from 
the prior year, due to the Washington Mutual transaction and 

investments in the retail distribution network.  
Selected metrics
 Year ended December 31,  
(in billions, except ratios and where 
  otherwise noted) 
2009
         2008
 2007
 Business metrics  
 Business banking origination volume 
$     2.3
  $     
5.5 
 $     
6.9 
 End-of-period loans owned  
17.0
  18.4
  15.6
  End-of-period deposits 
      Checking  
$ 121.9
  $ 
109.2 
 $   
66.9 
 Savings  
153.4
  144.0
  96.0
  Time and other  
58.0
  89.1
  48.6
  Total end-of-period deposits  
333.3
  342.3
  211.5
  Average loans owned  
$   17.8
  $   16.7
  $   14.9
  Average deposits  
      Checking  
$ 113.5
  $ 
  77.1 
 $   65.8
  Savings  
150.9
  114.3
  97.1
  Time and other  
76.4
  53.2
  43.8
  Total average deposits  
340.8
  244.6
  206.7
  Deposit margin  
2.96
 % 
2.89
 %2.72
 % Average assets  
$   28.9
  $   26.3
  $   25.0
  Credit data and quality statistics
  (in millions, except ratio) 
      Net charge-offs 
$    842
  $    346
  $    163
  Net charge-off rate 
4.73
 % 
2.07
 %1.09
 % Nonperforming assets 
$    839
  $    424
  $    294
   Retail branch business metrics
 Year ended December 31,  
2009
        2008
 2007
  Investment sales volume (in millions) 
 $ 21,784
 $ 
17,640 
$ 
18,360 
 Number of:  
    Branches  
5,154
 5,474
 3,152 
 ATMs 
15,406
 14,568
 9,186 
 Personal bankers 
17,991
 15,825
 9,650 
 Sales specialists 
5,912
 5,661
 4,105 
 Active online customers  
   (in thousands)  
15,424
 11,710
 5,918 
 Checking accounts (in thousands) 
25,712
 24,499
 10,839 
  Consumer Lending 
Selected income statement data 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios)  
 2009
         
2008
  2007
  Noninterest revenue  
 $   5,031
  $ 
4,404 
 $ 
3,016 
 Net interest income  
 9,711
  
6,506
 4,333
  Total net revenue  
 14,742
  
10,910
 7,349
  Provision for credit losses  
 14,798
  
9,456
 2,531
  Noninterest expense  
 6,391
  
4,845
 3,739
  Income/(loss) before income  
tax expense/(benefit) 
 (6,447)
  (3,391
) 1,079
  Net income/(loss) 
 $  (3,806)
  $ 
(2,102
) $   
680 
 Overhead ratio  
 43
% 44
%51
 %  2009 compared with 2008    
Consumer Lending
 reported a net loss of $3.8 billion, compared 
with a net loss of $2.1 billion in the prior year.  
Net revenue was $14.7 billion, up by $3.8 billion, or 35%, from the 
prior year. The increase was driven by the impact of the Washing-

ton Mutual transaction, wider loan spreads and higher mortgage 

fees and related income, partially offset by lower heritage Chase 

loan balances. Mortgage production revenue was $503 million, 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  69
 down $395 million from the prior year, as an increase in losses 
from the repurchase of previously-sold loans was predominantly 

offset by wider margins on new originations. Operating revenue, 

which represents loan servicing revenue net of other changes in fair 
value of the MSR asset, was $1.7 billion, compared with $1.2 
billion in the prior year, reflecting growth in average third-party 

loans serviced as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction. 

MSR risk management results were $1.6 billion, compared with 

$1.5 billion in the prior year, reflecting the positive impact of a 
decrease in estimated future mortgage prepayments during 2009.  
The provision for credit losses was $14.8 billion, compared with 
$9.5 billion in the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the 
home equity and mortgage loan portfolios (see Retail Financial 
Services discussion of the provision for credit losses, above on page 

66 and Allowance for Credit Losses on pages 123Œ125 of this 
Annual Report, for further detail). 
Noninterest expense was $6.4 billion, up by $1.5 billion, or 32%, 
from the prior year, reflecting higher servicing and default-related 
expense and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. 
2008 compared with 2007 
 Consumer Lending net loss was $2.1 billion, compared with net 
income of $680 million in the prior year. Total net revenue was 
$10.9 billion, up $3.6 billion, or 48%, driven by higher mortgage 
fees and related income, the impact of the Washington Mutual 
transaction, higher loan balances and wider loan spreads.  
The increase in mortgage fees and related income was primarily 
driven by higher net mortgage servicing revenue. Mortgage produc-

tion revenue of $898 million was up $18 million, as higher mort-

gage origination volume was predominantly offset by an increase in 

losses related to the repurchase of previously sold loans and mark-
downs of the mortgage warehouse. Operating revenue, which 
represents loan servicing revenue net of other changes in fair value 

of the MSR asset was $1.2 billion, an increase of $403 million, or 

50%, from the prior year reflecting growth in average third-party 

loans serviced which increased 42%, primarily due to the Washing-

ton Mutual transaction. MSR risk management results were $1.5 

billion, compared with $411 million in the prior year.  
The provision for credit losses was $9.5 billion, compared with $2.5 
billion in the prior year. The provision reflected weakness in the 
home equity and mortgage portfolios (see Retail Financial Services 
discussion of the provision for credit losses for further detail).  
Noninterest expense was $4.8 billion, up $1.1 billion, or 30%, from 
the prior year, reflecting higher mortgage reinsurance losses, the 

impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher servicing 
expense due to increased delinquencies and defaults. 
Selected metrics
 Year ended December 31, (in billions) 
2009
        20082007
Business metrics 
 Loans excluding purchased credit-
impaired loans
(a)
 End-of-period loans owned 
Home equity 
$  101.4
$ 114.3$   94.8
Prime mortgage 
59.4
65.234.0
Subprime mortgage 
12.5
15.315.5
Option ARMs 
8.5
9.0Š
Student loans 
15.8
15.911.0
Auto loans  
46.0
42.642.3
Other 
0.7
1.32.1
Total end-of-period loans owned
 $  244.3
$ 263.6$ 199.7
Average loans owned 
Home equity 
  $  108.3
$   99.9$   90.4
Prime mortgage 
62.2
45.030.4
Subprime mortgage 
13.9
15.312.7
Option ARMs 
8.9
2.3Š
Student loans 
16.1
13.610.5
Auto loans  
43.6
43.841.1
Other 
1.0
1.12.3
Total average loans owned
 $  254.0
$  221.0$ 187.4
 Purchased credit-impaired loans
(a)
 End-of-period loans owned 
Home equity 
$   26.5
$  28.6$   Š
Prime mortgage 
19.7
21.8Š
Subprime mortgage 
6.0
6.8Š
Option ARMs 
29.0
31.6Š
Total end-of-period loans owned
 $   81.2
$  88.8$   Š
Average loans owned 
Home equity 
$   27.6
$    7.1$   Š
Prime mortgage 
20.8
5.4Š
Subprime mortgage 
6.3
1.7Š
Option ARMs 
30.5
8.0Š
Total average loans owned
 $   85.2
$  22.2$   Š
 Total consumer lending portfolio
 End-of-period loans owned 
Home equity 
$ 127.9
$ 142.9$   94.8
Prime mortgage 
79.1
87.034.0
Subprime mortgage 
18.5
22.115.5
Option ARMs 
37.5
40.6Š
Student loans 
15.8
15.911.0
Auto loans  
46.0
42.642.3
Other 
0.7
1.32.1
Total end-of-period loans owned
 $ 325.5
$ 352.4$ 199.7
Average loans owned 
Home equity 
$ 135.9
$ 107.0$   
90.4 
Prime mortgage 
83.0
50.4
30.4 
Subprime mortgage 
20.2
17.0
12.7 
Option ARMs 
39.4
10.3Š
Student loans 
16.1
13.6
10.5 
Auto loans  
43.6
43.8
41.1 
Other 
1.0
1.1
2.3 
Total average loans owned
(b)
 $ 339.2
$ 243.2$ 187.4
(a)  Purchased credit-impaired loans represent loans acquired in the Washington 
Mutual transaction for which a deterioration in credit quality occurred  
between the origination date and JPMorgan Chase acquisition date.  
(b)  Total average loans owned includes loans held-for-sale of $2.2 billion, $2.8 
billion and $10.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 

2007, respectively.  
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 70
 Consumer Lending (continued) 
Credit data and quality statistics
 (in millions, except ratios) 
2009 
2008 2007 
Net charge-offs excluding purchased 
credit-impaired loans
(a)
    
Home equity 
$    4,682
  $ 
2,391 
 $    
564 
 Prime mortgage 
 1,886
  526 33 
Subprime mortgage 
 1,648
  933 157 
Option ARMs 
 63
  Š Š 
Auto loans  
 627
  568 354 
Other 
 365
  113 79 
Total net charge-offs 
 $    9,271
  $ 
4,531 
 $ 1,187 
Net charge-off rate excluding pur-
chased credit-impaired loans
(a)
  
   
Home equity 
 4.32
 %2.39%0.62%
 Prime mortgage 
 3.05
  1.18 0.13 
Subprime mortgage 
 11.86
  6.10 1.55 
Option ARMs 
 0.71
  Š Š 
Auto loans  
 1.44
  1.30 0.86 
Other 
 2.39
  0.93 0.88 
Total net charge-off rate 
excluding purchased credit-
impaired loans
(b)
  3.68
  2.08 0.67 
Net charge-off rate Œ reported  
   
Home equity 
 3.45
 %2.23%0.62%
 Prime mortgage 
 2.28
  1.05 0.13 
Subprime mortgage 
 8.16
  5.49 1.55 
Option ARMs 
 0.16
  Š Š 
Auto loans  
 1.44
  1.30 0.86 
Other 
 2.39
  0.93 0.88 
Total net charge-off rate
(b)
  2.75
  1.89 0.67 
30+ day delinquency rate excluding
 purchased credit-impaired 

loans
(c)(d)(e)
  5.93
 %4.21%3.10%
 Allowance for loan losses 
$  13,798
  $ 8,254 $ 2,418 
Nonperforming assets
(f)(g)
    11,259
   8,653  3,084 
Allowance for loan losses to ending 
loans 
 4.27
 %2.36%1.24%
 Allowance for loan losses to end
ing 
loans excluding purchased 

credit-impaired loans
(a)
  5.04
  3.16 1.24 
(a)  Excludes the impact of purchased credit-impaired loans that were acquired as 
part of the Washington Mutual transaction. These loans were accounted for at 
fair value on the acquisition date, which incorporated management™s estimate, 
as of that date, of the credit losses over the remaining life of the portfolio. Dur-
ing 2009, an allowance for loan losses of $1.6 billion was recorded for these 

loans, which has also been excluded from applicable ratios. To date, no 
charge-offs have been recorded for these loans. 
(b) Average loans included loans held-for-sale of $2.2 billion, $2.8 billion and 
$10.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respec-
tively, which were excluded when calculating the net charge-off rate. 
(c) Excluded mortgage loans that are insured by U.S. government agencies of $9.7 
billion, $3.5 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respec-

tively. These amounts were excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 
(d)  Excluded loans that are 30 days past due and still accruing, which are insured 
by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Pro-

gram of $942 million, $824 million and $663 million at December 31, 2009, 
2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts are excluded, as reimbursement 
is proceeding normally. 
(e) The delinquency rate for purchased credit-impaired loans was 27.79% and 
17.89% at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(f) At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) 
mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $9.0 billion, $3.0 bil-
lion and $1.1 billion, respectively; (2) real estate owned insured by U.S. gov-
ernment agencies of $579 million, $364 million and $452 million, respectively; 

and (3) student loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are 

insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan 
Program, of $542 million, $437 million and $417 million, respectively. These 
amounts are excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 
(g) Excludes purchased credit-impaired loans that were acquired as part of the 
Washington Mutual transaction. These loans are accounted for on a pool ba-

sis, and the pools are considered to be performing. 
 
 (in billions, except ratios and 
 where otherwise noted) 
2009
         2008 2007 
Origination volume 
   
Mortgage origination volume
   by channel 
   
Retail 
$    53.9
 $     
41.1 
 $   
45.5 
 Wholesale
(a)
 11.8
 29.4 42.7 
Correspondent 
72.8
 55.5 27.9 
CNT (negotiated  
   transactions) 
12.2
 43.0 43.3 
Total mortgage  
   origination volume 
 150.7
 169.0 159.4 
Home equity 
2.4
 16.3 48.3 
Student loans 
4.2
 6.9 7.0 
Auto   
23.7
 19.4 21.3 
Application volume 
   
Mortgage application volume
    by channel 
   
Retail  
90.9
 89.1 80.7 
Wholesale
(a)
 16.4
 63.0 86.7 
Correspondent 
99.3
 82.5 41.5 
Total mortgage  

   application volume 206.6
 234.6 208.9 
Average mortgage loans held-for-
sale and loans at fair value
(b)
 16.2
 14.6 18.8 
Average assets 
378.6
 278.1 216.1 
Third-party mortgage loans 
serviced (ending) 
1,082.1 
1,172.6 614.7 
Third-party mortgage loans 
serviced (average) 
1,119.1 
810.9 571.5 
MSR net carrying value (ending) 
15.5 
9.3 8.6 
Ratio of MSR net carrying value 
(ending) to third-party mort-

gage loans serviced (ending) 
1.43%
 0.79%
 1.40%
 Supplemental mort
gage fees 
and related income de
tails 
(in millions)
    
Production revenue 
$    503 
$     898 $   880 
Net mortgage servicing revenue: 
   
Operating revenue: 
   
     Loan servicing revenue 
4,942 
3,258 2,334 
Other changes in MSR  

   asset fair value 
(3,279) 
(2,052) (1,531) 
Total operating revenue 
1,663 
1,206 803 
Risk management: 
   
Changes in MSR asset fair 
   
   value due to inputs or  
   assumptions in model 
5,804 
(6,849) (516) 
Derivative valuation  
   adjustments and other 
(4,176) 
8,366 927 
Total risk management 
1,628 
1,517 411 
Total net mortgage servicing  
revenue 
3,291 
2,723 1,214 
Mortgage fees and related 
income 
3,794 
3,621 2,094 
Ratio of annualized loan servicing 
revenue to third-party mort-
gage loans serviced (average) 
0.44%
 0.40%
 0.41%
 MSR revenue multiple
(c)
 3.25x 
1.98x 3.41x 
(a) Includes rural housing loans sourced through brokers and underwritten under 
U.S. Department of Agriculture guidelines.  
(b) Loans at fair value consist of prime mortgages originated with the intent to 
sell that are accounted for at fair value and classified as trading assets on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Average balances of these loans totaled $15.8 
billion, $14.2 billion and $11.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 

2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  
(c) Represents the ratio of MSR net carrying value (ending) to third-party mort-
gage loans serviced (ending) divided by the ratio of annualized loan servicing 

revenue to third-party mortgage loans serviced (average). 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  71
  Mortgage origination channels comprise the following:  
Retail 
Œ Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home 
through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the 
Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers 
are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by a banker in a 
Chase branch, real estate brokers, home builders or other third 
parties.  
Wholesale 
Œ A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applica-
tions to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent 
loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrow-
ers but do not provide funding for loans. The Firm exited the 
broker channel during 2008.  
Correspondent 
Œ Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and 
other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.  
Correspondent negotiated transactions (ﬁCNTsﬂ) 
Œ These 
transactions occur when mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, 
banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the 
Firm on an as-originated basis, and exclude purchased bulk servic-
ing transactions.  These transactions supplement traditional pro-
duction channels and provide growth opportunities in the servicing 
portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods. 
   Production revenue 
Œ Includes net gains or losses on origina-
tions and sales of prime and subprime mortgage loans, other 
production-related fees and losses related to the repurchase of 
previously sold loans.  
Net mortgage servicing revenue 
includes the following  
components: 
(a) Operating revenue comprises: 
 Œ all gross income earned from servicing third-party mortgage 
 loans including stated service fees, excess service fees, late fees 
 and other ancillary fees. 
 Œ modeled servicing portfolio runoff (or time decay). 
(b) Risk management comprises: 
 Œ changes in MSR asset fair value due to market-based inputs 
 such as interest rates and volatility, as well as updates to  
 assumptions used in the MSR valuation model. 
 Œ derivative valuation adjustments and other, which represents 
 changes in the fair value of derivative instruments used to offset 
 the impact of changes in the market-based inputs to the 
 MSR valuation model. 
 ˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 72
 CARD SERVICES
 Card Services is one of the nation™s largest credit card 
issuers, with more than 145 million credit cards in circu-
lation and over $163 billion in managed loans. Custom-
ers used Chase cards to meet more than $328 billion of 
their spending needs in 2009.  
Chase continues to innovate, despite a very difficult 
business environment, launching new products and 
services such as Blueprint, Ultimate Rewards, Chase  
Sapphire and Ink from Chase, and earning a market 
leadership position in building loyalty and rewards 
programs. Through its merchant acquiring business, 
Chase Paymentech Solutions, Chase is one of the lead-
ing processors of credit-card payments. 
JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of ﬁmanaged basisﬂ to evaluate 
the credit performance of its credit card loans, both loans on the 
balance sheet and loans that have been securitized. For further 

information, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm™s Use of 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 58Œ60 of this Annual 

Report. Managed results exclude the impact of credit card securiti-

zations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net 

charge-offs and loan receivables. Securitization does not change 

reported net income; however, it does affect the classification of 

items on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated 

Balance Sheets.  
The following discussion of CS™s financial results reflects the acquisi-
tion of Washington Mutual™s credit cards operations, as a result of the 

Washington Mutual transaction on September 25, 2008, and the 

dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture on 

November 1, 2008. See Note 2 on pages 151Œ156 of this Annual 

Report for more information concerning these transactions. 
Selected income statement data Œ managed basis 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios) 
 2009 
        2008  2007 
Revenue 
    
Credit card income 
$ 3,612 
   $ 2,768     $  2,685 
All other income 
(692)
  (49)  361 
Noninterest revenue  
2,920
  2,719  3,046 
Net interest income  
17,384
  13,755  12,189 
Total net revenue  
20,304
  16,474  15,235 
Provision for credit losses  
18,462
  10,059  5,711 
Noninterest expense  
    
Compensation expense 
1,376
  1,127  1,021 
Noncompensation expense 
3,490
  3,356  3,173 
Amortization of intangibles  
515
  657  720 
Total noninterest expense  
5,381
  5,140  4,914 
Income/(loss) before income tax ex-
pense/(benefit) 
(3,539)
  1,275  4,610 
Income tax expense/(benefit) 
(1,314)
  495  1,691 
Net income/(loss) 
$ (2,225) 
   $ 780     $  2,919 
Memo: Net securitization income/(loss) 
$ (474) 
   $ (183)    $  67 
Financial ratios 
    
ROE 
(15)%
  5% 21%
 Overhead ratio 
27
  31  32 
 2009 compared with 2008     
Card Services reported a net loss of $2.2 billion, compared with net 

income of $780 million in the prior year. The decrease was driven 

by a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher total 

net revenue. 
End-of-period managed loans were $163.4 billion, a decrease of 
$26.9 billion, or 14%, from the prior year, reflecting lower charge 

volume and a higher level of charge-offs. Average managed loans 

were $172.4 billion, an increase of $9.5 billion, or 6%, from the 

prior year, primarily due to the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutual trans-

action, end-of-period and average managed loans for 2009 were 

$143.8 billion and $148.8 billion, respectively.  
Managed total net revenue was $20.3 billion, an increase of $3.8 
billion, or 23%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $17.4 

billion, up by $3.6 billion, or 26%, from the prior year, driven by 

wider loan spreads and the impact of the Washington Mutual 

transaction. These benefits were offset partially by higher revenue 

reversals associated with higher charge-offs, a decreased level of 

fees, lower average managed loan balances, and the impact of 

legislative changes. Noninterest revenue was $2.9 billion, an in-

crease of $201 million, or 7%, from the prior year. The increase 

was driven by higher merchant servicing revenue related to the 

dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture and 

the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partially offset by 

lower securitization income.  
The managed provision for credit losses was $18.5 billion, an 
increase of $8.4 billion from the prior year, reflecting a higher level 

of charge-offs and an addition of $2.4 billion to the allowance for 

loan losses, reflecting continued weakness in the credit environ-

ment. The managed net charge-off rate was 9.33%, up from 

5.01% in the prior year. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 

6.28%, up from 4.97% in the prior year. Excluding the impact of 

the Washington Mutual transaction, the managed net charge-off 

rate was 8.45%, and the 30-day managed delinquency rate was 

5.52%. 
Noninterest expense was $5.4 billion, an increase of $241 million, 
or 5%, from the prior year, due to the dissolution of the Chase 

Paymentech Solutions joint venture and the impact of the Washing-

ton Mutual transaction, partially offset by lower marketing expense.  
2008 compared with 2007 
Net income was $780 million, a decline of $2.1 billion, or 73%, 

from the prior year. The decrease was driven by a higher provision 

for credit losses, partially offset by higher total net revenue. 
Average managed loans were $162.9 billion, an increase of $13.5 
billion, or 9%, from the prior year. End-of-period managed loans 

were $190.3 billion, an increase of $33.3 billion, or 21%, from the 

prior year. Excluding Washington Mutual, average managed loans 

were $155.9 billion and end-of-period managed loans were $162.1 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  73
 billion. The increases in both average managed loans and end-of-
period managed loans were predominantly due to the impact of the 

Washington Mutual transaction and organic portfolio growth. 
Managed total net revenue was $16.5 billion, an increase of $1.2 
billion, or 8%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $13.8 

billion, up $1.6 billion, or 13%, from the prior year, driven by the 

Washington Mutual transaction, higher average managed loan 

balances, and wider loan spreads. These benefits were offset par-

tially by the effect of higher revenue reversals associated with 

higher charge-offs. Noninterest revenue was $2.7 billion, a de-

crease of $327 million, or 11%, from the prior year, driven by 

increased rewards expense, lower securitization income driven by 

higher credit losses, and higher volume-driven payments to part-

ners; these were largely offset by increased interchange income, 

benefiting from a 4% increase in charge volume, as well as the 

impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.  
The managed provision for credit losses was $10.1 billion, an 

increase of $4.3 billion, or 76%, from the prior year, due to an 

increase of $1.7 billion in the allowance for loan losses and a 

higher level of charge-offs. The managed net charge-off rate in-

creased to 5.01%, up from 3.68% in the prior year. The 30-day 

managed delinquency rate was 4.97%, up from 3.48% in the prior 

year. Excluding Washington Mutual, the managed net charge-off 

rate was 4.92% and the 30-day delinquency rate was 4.36%. 
Noninterest expense was $5.1 billion, an increase of $226 million, 
or 5%, from the prior year, predominantly due to the impact of the 

Washington Mutual transaction. 
 
      The following are brief descriptions of selected business metrics within Card Services. 
    Ł Charge volume 
Œ Dollar amount of cardmember purchases, balance transfers and cash advance activity.  
   Ł Net accounts opened 
Œ Includes originations, purchases and sales.  
   Ł Merchant acquiring business 
Œ A business that processes bank card transactions for merchants.  
   Ł Bank card volume 
Œ Dollar amount of transactions processed for merchants.  
   Ł Total transactions 
Œ Number of transactions and authorizations processed for merchants. 
  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 74
  Selected metrics 
    
Year ended December 31,  
   
(in millions, except headcount, ratios 
 and where otherwise noted) 
 2009 
 2008   2007 
Financial metrics 
    
Percentage of average managed 

  outstandings: 
    
Net interest income 
 10.08%
   8.45%
  8.16%
 Provision for credit losses 
 10.71
  6.18  3.82 
Noninterest revenue 
 1.69
  1.67  2.04 
Risk adjusted margin
(a)
  1.07
  3.94  6.38 
Noninterest expense 
 3.12
  3.16  3.29 
Pretax income/(loss) (ROO)
(b)
  (2.05)
  0.78  3.09 
Net income/(loss) 
 (1.29)
  0.48  1.95 
Business metrics
     
Charge volume (in billions) 
  $ 328.3
  $     368.9  $     354.6 
Net accounts opened (in millions)
(c)
  10.2
  27.9
  16.4 
Credit cards issued (in millions) 
 145.3
  168.7  155.0 
Number of registered internet  
customers (in millions) 
 32.3
  35.6  28.3 
Merchant acquiring business
(d)
   
   
    Bank card volume (in billions) 
  $ 409.7
  $     713.9  $     719.1 
    Total transactions (in billions) 
 18.0
  21.4  19.7 
Selected balance sheet data 
(period-end) 
    
Loans: 
    
Loans on balance sheets 
  $ 78,786
  $ 104,746  $   84,352 
Securitized loans  
 84,626
  85,571  72,701 
Managed loans 
  $ 163,412
  $ 190,317  $ 157,053 
Equity 
  $ 15,000
  $   15,000    $   14,100 
Selected balance sheet data 
(average) 
    
Managed assets 
  $ 192,749
  $ 173,711    $ 155,957 
Loans: 
    
Loans on balance sheets 
  $ 87,029
  $   83,293    $   79,980 
Securitized loans 
 85,378 
 79,566  69,338 
Managed average loans 
  $ 172,407
  $ 162,859    $ 149,318 
Equity 
  $ 15,000
  $   14,326    $   14,100 
Headcount
  22,676
  24,025  18,554 
Managed credit quality statistics 
     
Net charge-offs  
  $ 16,077
  $     8,159    $     5,496 
Net charge-off rate
(e)
      9.33%
      5.01%
    3.68%
 Managed delinquency rates 
    
30+ day
(e)
  6.28%
      4.97%
     3.48%
 90+ day
(e)
  3.59
      2.34  1.65 
Allowance for loan losses
(f)(g)
   $ 9,672
  $     7,692    $     3,407 
Allowance for loan losses to period-
end 
loans
(f)(h)
  12.28%
      7.34%
     4.04%
 Key stats Œ Washington Mutual only
(i)
    
Managed loans 
  $ 19,653
  $   28,250   
Managed average loans 
 23,642
  6,964   
Net interest income
(j)
  17.11%
   14.87%
   
Risk adjusted margin
(a)(j)
  (0.93)
  4.18   
Net charge-off rate
(k)
  18.79
  12.09   
30+ day delinquency rate
(k)
  12.72
      9.14   
90+ day delinquency rate
(k)
  7.76
      4.39   
Key stats Œ excluding Washington Mutual 
    
Managed loans 
 $ 143,759
  $ 162,067    $ 157,053 
Managed average loans 
 148,765
  155,895  149,318 
Net interest income
(j)
  8.97%
     8.16%
     8.16%
 Risk adjusted margin
(a)(j)
  1.39
  3.93  6.38 
Net charge-off rate 
 8.45
  4.92  3.68 
30+ day delinquency rate 
 5.52
  4.36  3.48 
90+ day delinquency rate 
 3.13
  2.09  1.65 
(a) Represents total net revenue less provision for credit losses. 
(b) Pretax return on average managed outstandings. 

(c) Results for 2008 included approximately 13 million credit card accounts acquired 
by JPMorgan Chase in the Washington Mutual transaction. 
(d) The Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture was dissolved effective November 
1, 2008. JPMorgan Chase retained approximately 51% of the business and op-
erates the business under the name Chase Paymentech Solutions. For the period 

January 1 through October 31, 2008, the data presented represents activity for 
the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture, and for the period November 1, 
2008, through December 31, 2009, the data presented represents activity for 

Chase Paymentech Solutions. 
(e)  Results for 2009 and 2008 reflect the impact of purchase accounting adjust-
ments related to the Washington Mutual transaction and the consolidation of 

the Washington Mutual Master Trust. 
(f) Based on loans on balance sheets (ﬁreported basisﬂ). 

(g)  The 2008 allowance for loan losses included an amount related to loans ac-
quired in the Washington Mutual transaction.  
(h)  Includes $1.0 billion of loans at December 31, 2009, held by the Washing-
ton Mutual Master Trust, which were consolidated onto the Card Services 

balance sheet at fair value during the second quarter of 2009. No allowance 

for loan losses was recorded for these loans as of December 31, 2009. 
Excluding these loans, the allowance for loan losses to period-end loans 
was 12.43%. 
(i) Statistics are only presented for periods after September 25, 2008, the date of 
the Washington Mutual transaction.  
(j) As a percentage of average managed outstandings. 

(k)  Excludes the impact of purchase accounting adjustments related to the 
Washington Mutual transaction and the consolidation of the Washington 

Mutual Master Trust. 
The financial information presented below reconciles reported basis 
and managed basis to disclose the effect of securitizations. 
 Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2009 
2008 2007
 Income statement data
(a)
    Credit card income 
   Reported  
  $ 5,106
 $ 6,082 $    5,940
  Securitization adjustments 
 (1,494)
  (3,314)  (3,255
 ) 
Managed credit card income   $ 3,612 
$ 2,768 $    2,685
  Net interest income 
   Reported   
  $ 9,447
 $ 6,838 $    6,554
  Securitization adjustments 
 7,937
  6,917  5,635
  Managed net interest income   $ 17,384
 $ 13,755 $  12,189
  Total net revenue 
   Reported   
  $  13,861
 $ 12,871 $  12,855
  Securitization adjustments 
  6,443
  3,603  2,380
  Managed total net revenue   $ 20,304
 $ 16,474 $   15,235
  Provision for credit losses  
  Reported   
  $ 12,019
 $ 6,456 $    3,331
  Securitization adjustments 
  6,443
  3,603  2,380
  Managed provision for  
   credit losses
   $ 18,462
 $ 10,059
 $    5,711
  Balance sheet Œ average balances
(a)
    Total average assets 
   
Reported   
  $ 110,516
 $ 96,807 $   89,177
  Securitization adjustments 
  82,233
  76,904  66,780
  Managed average assets   $ 192,749
 $173,711 $ 155,957
  Credit quality statistics
(a)
  
  Net charge-offs 
   Reported   
  $ 9,634
 $ 4,556 $     3,116
  Securitization adjustments 
  6,443
  3,603   2,380
  Managed net charge-offs   $ 16,077
 $ 8,159 $     5,496
  Net charge-off rates 
  Reported   
     11.07%
    5.47%   3.90
 % 
Securitized 
7.55
  4.53  3.43
  Managed net charge-off rate 
9.33
  5.01  3.68
  (a) For a discussion of managed basis, see the non-GAAP financial measures discussion 
on pages 58Œ60 of this Annual Report. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  75
 COMMERCIAL BANKING
Commercial Banking serves nearly 25,000 clients  
nationally, including corporations, municipalities,  
financial institutions and not-for-profit entities with 
annual revenue generally ranging from $10 million to 
$2 billion, and more than 30,000 real estate investors/ 
owners. Delivering extensive industry knowledge, 
local expertise and dedicated service, CB partners with 
the Firm™s other businesses to provide comprehensive 
solutions, including lending, treasury services, invest-
ment banking and asset management to meet its  
clients™ domestic and international financial needs.  
On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking 
operations of Washington Mutual from the FDIC, adding approxi-
mately $44.5 billion in loans to the Commercial Term Lending, 
Real Estate Banking and Other businesses in Commercial Banking.  
Commercial Banking is divided into four primary client segments: 
Middle Market Banking, Commercial Term Lending, Mid-Corporate 

Banking, and Real Estate Banking. Middle Market Banking covers 

corporate, municipal, financial institution and not-for-profit clients, 
with annual revenue generally ranging between $10 million and 
$500 million. Mid-Corporate Banking covers clients with annual 

revenue generally ranging between $500 million and $2 billion and 

focuses on clients that have broader investment banking needs. 

Commercial Term Lending primarily provides term financing to real 

estate investors/owners for multi-family properties as well as financ-
ing office, retail and industrial properties. Real Estate Banking pro-
vides full-service banking to investors and developers of institutional-
grade real estate properties. 
Selected income statement data
  Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
2009 
2008 2007
Revenue 
  Lending- and deposit-
related fees 
   $ 1,081
    $ 854 $    647
Asset management, administra-
tion and commissions 
  140 
  113 
  92
All other income
(a)
   596 
  514 
  524 
Noninterest revenue  
 1,817
   1,481 
  1,263
Net interest income 
 3,903
   3,296 
  2,840 
Total net revenue 
 5,720
   4,777 
  4,103 
Provision for credit losses 
 1,454
   464 
  279 
Noninterest expense 
  Compensation expense 
  776 
  692 
  706
Noncompensation expense 
 1,359 
  1,206 
  1,197
Amortization of intangibles 
  41 
  48 
  55
Total noninterest expense  
 2,176
   1,946   
1,958 
 Income before income  
tax expense 
 2,090
   2,367   
1,866 
 Income tax expense  
  819
   928   
732 
 Net income 
    $ 1,271
      $ 1,439     $ 
1,134 
 Revenue by product: 
    
Lending  
   $ 2,663
      $ 1,743     $  
1,419 
 Treasury services  
  2,642
   2,648   
2,350 
 Investment banking  
  394
   334   
292 
 Other  
  21
   52   
42 
 Total Commercial Banking 
revenue
  
   $ 5,720
      $ 4,777    $ 
4,103 
 Selected income statement data
  Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios) 
2009 
2008 2007
IB revenue, gross
(b)
    $ 1,163
      $ 966    $ 
888 
 Revenue by business: 
    
Middle Market Banking 
   $ 3,055
      $ 2,939     $ 
2,689 
 Commercial Term Lending
(c)
   875
   243   Š 
Mid-Corporate Banking  
  1,102
   921   
815 
 Real Estate Banking
(c)
   461
   413   
421 
 Other
(c)
   227
   261   
178 
 Total Commercial Banking 
revenue
    $ 5,720
      $ 4,777    $ 
4,103 
 Financial ratios 
   ROE  
  16% 
  20%   17%
 Overhead ratio  
  38 
  41 48 
(a) Revenue from investment banking products sold to CB clients and commercial 
card revenue is included in all other income.  
(b) Represents the total revenue related to investment banking products sold to 
CB clients.  
(c)  Results for 2009 and 2008 include total net revenue on net assets acquired in 
the Washington Mutual transaction.  
2009 compared with 2008  
Net income was $1.3 billion, a decrease of $168 million, or 12%, 

from the prior year, as higher provision for credit losses and nonin-

terest expense was partially offset by higher net revenue, reflecting 
the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.  
Record net revenue of $5.7 billion increased $943 million, or 20%, 
from the prior year. Net interest income of $3.9 billion increased 

$607 million, or 18%, driven by the impact of the Washington 
Mutual transaction. Noninterest revenue was $1.8 billion, an 
increase of $336 million, or 23%, from the prior year, reflecting 

higher lending- and deposit-related fees and higher investment 
banking fees and other income.  
On a client-segment basis, revenue from Middle Market Banking 
was $3.1 billion, an increase of $116 million, or 4%, from the prior 

year due to higher liability balances, a shift to higher-spread liability 

products, wider loan spreads, higher lending- and deposit-related 
fees, and higher other income, partially offset by a narrowing of 
spreads on liability products and reduced loan balances. Revenue 

from Commercial Term Lending (a new client segment acquired in 

the Washington Mutual transaction encompassing multi-family and 

commercial mortgage loans) was $875 million, an increase of $632 

million. Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $1.1 billion, an in-
crease of $181 million, or 20%, driven by higher investment bank-
ing fees, increased loan spreads, and higher lending- and deposit-

related fees. Real Estate Banking revenue was $461 million, an 

increase of $48 million, or 12%, due to the impact of the Washing-
ton Mutual transaction.  
The provision for credit losses was $1.5 billion, compared with  
$464 million in the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the 

credit environment, predominantly in real estate-related segments. 
Net charge-offs were $1.1 billion (1.02% net charge-off rate), com-
pared with $288 million (0.35% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. 

The allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 

3.12%, up from 2.45% in the prior year. Nonperforming loans were 
$2.8 billion, an increase of $1.8 billion from the prior year. 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 76
 Noninterest expense was $2.2 billion, an increase of $230 million, 
or 12%, from the prior year, due to the impact of the Washington 
Mutual transaction and higher FDIC insurance premiums. 
2008 compared with 2007 
 Net income was $1.4 billion, an increase of $305 million, or 27%, 
from the prior year, due to growth in total net revenue including 
the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partially offset by 
a higher provision for credit losses.  
Record total net revenue of $4.8 billion increased $674 million, or 
16%. Net interest income of $3.3 billion increased $456 million, or 

16%, driven by double-digit growth in liability and loan balances 

and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partially 

offset by spread compression in the liability and loan portfolios. 

Noninterest revenue was $1.5 billion, up $218 million, or 17%, 

due to higher deposit- and lending-related fees.  
On a client-segment basis, Middle Market Banking revenue was  
$2.9 billion, an increase of $250 million, or 9%, from the prior year 
due predominantly to higher deposit-related fees and growth in 

liability and loan balances. Revenue from Commercial Term Lending, 

a new client segment acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction, 

was $243 million. Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $921 million, 

an increase of $106 million, or 13%, reflecting higher loan balances, 
investment banking revenue and deposit-related fees. Real Estate 
Banking revenue of $413 million decreased $8 million, or 2%.  
Provision for credit losses was $464 million, an increase of $185 
million, or 66%, compared with the prior year, reflecting a weakening 

credit environment and loan growth. Net charge-offs were $288 

million (0.35% net charge-off rate), compared with $44 million 

(0.07% net charge-off rate) in the prior year, predominantly related 

to an increase in real estate charge-offs. The allowance for loan 
losses increased by $1.1 billion, which primarily reflected the impact 
of the Washington Mutual transaction. Nonperforming assets were 

$1.1 billion, an increase of $1.0 billion compared with the prior year, 

predominantly reflecting the Washington Mutual transaction and 
higher real estateŒrelated balances. 
Noninterest expense was $1.9 billion, a decrease of $12 million, or 1%, 
from the prior year, due to lower performance-based incentive compen-

sation and volume-based charges from service providers, predominantly 

offset by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. 
Selected metrics 
 Year ended December 31,  
(in millions)  
 2009
  2008 2007
Selected balance sheet data 
(period-end):
  Loans: 
 Loans retained 
  $ 97,108
  $ 115,130 $ 64,835
Loans held-for-sale and  

  loans at fair value 
  324
   295  1,366
Total loans 
  $ 97,432
  $ 115,425 $ 66,201
Equity 
  8,000
   8,000   
6,700 
 Selected metrics 
  Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except headcount and 

 ratio data)  
 2009
  2008  2007 
Selected balance sheet data 
(average):
    Total assets 
  $ 135,408
   $ 114,299  $  
87,140 
 Loans: 
   Loans retained 
  106,421
   81,931  60,231 
Loans held-for-sale and 

  loans at fair value 
  317
   406   
863 
 Total loans 
 $ 
 106,738
  $ 82,337  $  
61,094 
 Liability balances
(a)
   113,152
   103,121  87,726 
Equity 
 $ 8,000
  $ 7,251  $
6,502 
 Average loans by business:  
  Middle Market Banking 
 $   
 37,459
  $ 42,193  $  
37,333 
 Commercial Term Lending
(b)
   36,806
   9,310   Š
 Mid-Corporate Banking  
  15,951
   16,297  12,481
 Real Estate Banking
(b)
   12,066
   9,008   
7,116 
 Other
(b)
   4,456
   5,529   
4,164 
 Total Commercial Banking loans 
 $ 106,738
  $ 82,337  $  
61,094 
 Headcount 
  4,151 
  5,206   4,125
 Credit data and quality statistics:  
  Net charge-offs 
 $     1,089
  $ 288  $         
44 
 Nonperforming loans: 
   Nonperforming loans retained
(c)
   2,764
   1,026   146
 Nonperforming loans held-for- 
sale and loans held at fair value 
  37
   Š   Š
 Total nonperforming loans 
  2,801
   1,026   146
 Nonperforming assets 
  2,989
   1,142   148
 Allowance for credit losses:  
  Allowance for loan losses
(d)
   3,025
   2,826   
1,695 
 Allowance for lending-related 
commitments 
  349
   206    
236 
 Total allowance for credit losses 
  3,374
   3,032    
1,931 
 Net charge-off rate 
 1.02%
  0.35%      0.07
% Allowance for loan losses to period-
end 
loans retained
     3.12
      2.45    2.61
 Allowance for loan losses to average 
loans retained
     2.84
  3.04
(e)
   2.81
 Allowance for loan losses  
to nonperforming loans retained
   109
    275   1,161
 Nonperforming loans to total period-
end loans 
 2.87
   0.89   0.22
 Nonperforming loans to total average 
loans
  2.62
            1.10
(e)
  0.24
 (a) Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to onŒbalance sheet 
liabilities such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities loaned 
or sold under repurchase agreements.  
(b) Results for 2009 and 2008 include loans acquired in the Washington Mutual 
transaction. 
(c) Allowance for loan losses of $581 million, $208 million and $32 million were held 
against nonperforming loans retained for the periods ended December 31, 2009, 
2008, and 2007, respectively. 
(d) Beginning in 2008, the allowance for loan losses included an amount related to 
loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and the Bear Stearns 

merger. 
(e)  Average loans in the calculation of this ratio were adjusted to include $44.5 
billion of loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction as if the transac-

tion occurred on July 1, 2008. Excluding this adjustment, the unadjusted allow-
ance for loan losses to average loans retained and nonperforming loans to total 
average loans ratios would have been 3.45% and 1.25%, respectively, for the 

period ended December 31, 2008.
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  77
 TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES  
Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in 
transaction, investment and information services. 
TSS is one of the world™s largest cash management 
providers and a leading global custodian. Treasury 
Services provides cash management, trade, whole-
sale card and liquidity products and services to 
small and mid-sized companies, multinational cor-
porations, financial institutions and government 
entities. TS partners with the Commercial Banking, 
Retail Financial Services and Asset Management 
businesses to serve clients firmwide. As a result, 
certain TS revenue is included in other segments™ 
results. Worldwide Securities Services holds, values, 
clears and services securities, cash and alternative 
investments for investors and broker-dealers, and it 
manages depositary receipt programs globally.  
 Selected income statement data 
 Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratio data)
  2009 
 2008 2007 
Revenue 
   
Lending- and deposit-related 
fees  
 $ 1,285
  $ 1,146   $  
923 
 Asset management, admini-
stration and commissions 
  2,631
   3,133   
3,050 
 All other income  
  831
   917   
708 
 Noninterest revenue  
  4,747
   5,196   
4,681 
 Net interest income  
  2,597
   2,938   
2,264 
 Total net revenue  
  7,344
   8,134   
6,945 
 Provision for credit losses  
  55
   82   
19 
 Credit reimbursement to IB
(a)
    (121)
   (121)   
(121 
) 
Noninterest expense  
 Compensation expense  
  2,544
   2,602   
2,353 
 Noncompensation expense  
  2,658
   2,556   
2,161 
 Amortization of intangibles  
  76
   65   
66 
 Total noninterest expense  
  5,278
   5,223   
4,580 
 Income before income tax 
expense 
  1,890
   2,708   
2,225 
 Income tax expense  
  664
   941   
828 
 Net income 
  $ 1,226
  $ 1,767  $ 
1,397 
 Revenue by business 
  Treasury Services
(b)
   
 $ 3,702
  $ 3,779  $  
3,190 
 Worldwide Securities Services
(b)
     3,642
   4,355   
3,755 
 Total net revenue 
  $ 7,344
  $ 8,134  $  
6,945 
 Financial ratios
    ROE  
 25% 
   47% 
 47 
% Overhead ratio  
  72
   64 
66 
 Pretax margin ratio
(c)
  
  26
   33 
32 
     
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
Year ended December 31,  

(in millions, except headcount) 
  2009 
 2008 2007
Selected balance sheet data 
(period-end)
   
Loans
(d)
  $  18,972
  $ 24,508  $  18,562
Equity  
 5,000
   4,500   
3,000 
Selected balance sheet data 
(average)
   Total assets  
 $  35,963
  $ 54,563  $ 
 53,350 
Loans
(d)
  
 18,397
   26,226   
20,821 
Liability balances
(e)
  
 248,095
   279,833   
228,925 
Equity  
 5,000
   3,751   
3,000 
Headcount 
  26,609
   27,070   25,669
(a)  IB credit portfolio group manages certain exposures on behalf of clients 
shared with TSS. TSS reimburses IB for a portion of the total cost of manag-
ing the credit portfolio. IB recognizes this credit reimbursement as a compo-

nent of noninterest revenue. 
(b)  Reflects an internal reorganization for escrow products from Worldwide 
Securities Services to Treasury Services revenue of $168 million, $224 mil-

lion and $177 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 
2007, respectively. 
(c) Pretax margin represents income before income tax expense divided by total 
net revenue, which is a measure of pretax performance and another basis by 

which management evaluates its performance and that of its competitors.  
(d) Loan balances include wholesale overdrafts, commercial card and trade 
finance loans.  
(e) Liability balances include deposits and deposits swept to onŒbalance sheet 
liabilities, such as commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities 
loaned or sold under repurchase agreements.  
 2009 compared with 2008    
Net income was $1.2 billion, a decrease of $541 million, or 31%, 

from the prior year, driven by lower net revenue.  
Net revenue was $7.3 billion, a decrease of $790 million, or 10%, 
from the prior year. Worldwide Securities Services net revenue was 

$3.6 billion, a decrease of $713 million, or 16%. The decrease was 

driven by lower securities lending balances, primarily as a result of 

declines in asset valuations and demand, lower balances and spreads 

on liability products, and the effect of market depreciation on certain 

custody assets. Treasury Services net revenue was $3.7 billion, a 

decrease of $77 million, or 2%, reflecting spread compression on 

deposit products, offset by higher trade revenue driven by wider 

spreads and growth across cash management and card product 

volumes. 
TSS generated firmwide net revenue of $10.2 billion, including $6.6 
billion of net revenue in Treasury Services; of that amount, $3.7 

billion was recorded in the Treasury Services business, $2.6 billion 

was recorded in the Commercial Banking business, and $245 million 

was recorded in other lines of business. The remaining $3.6 billion of 

net revenue was recorded in Worldwide Securities Services. 
The provision for credit losses was $55 million, a decrease of $27 
million from the prior year. 
Noninterest expense was $5.3 billion, an increase of $55 million from 
the prior year. The increase was driven by higher FDIC insurance 

premiums, predominantly offset by lower headcount-related expense. 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 78
 2008 compared with 2007 
Net income was a record $1.8 billion, an increase of $370 million, 

or 26%, from the prior year, driven by higher total net revenue. 

This increase was largely offset by higher noninterest expense.  
Total net revenue was a record $8.1 billion, an increase of $1.2 
billion, or 17%, from the prior year. Worldwide Securities Services 

posted record net revenue of $4.4 billion, an increase of $600 

million, or 16%, from the prior year. The growth was driven by 

wider spreads in securities lending, foreign exchange and liability 

products, increased product usage by new and existing clients 

(largely in custody, fund services, alternative investment services 

and depositary receipts) and higher liability balances, reflecting 

increased client deposit activity resulting from recent market condi-

tions. These benefits were offset partially by market depreciation. 

Treasury Services posted record net revenue of $3.8 billion, an 

increase of $589 million, or 18%, reflecting higher liability balances 

and volume growth in electronic funds transfer products and trade 

loans. Revenue growth from higher liability balances reflects in-

creased client deposit activity resulting from recent market condi-

tions as well as organic growth. TSS firmwide net revenue, which 

includes Treasury Services net revenue recorded in other lines of 

business, grew to $11.1 billion, an increase of $1.5 billion, or 16%. 

Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to $6.7 billion, an 

increase of $916 million, or 16%.  
Noninterest expense was $5.2 billion, an increase of $643 million, 
or 14%, from the prior year, reflecting higher expense related to 

business and volume growth as well as continued investment in 

new product platforms. 
Selected metrics
       
Year ended December 31, 
      
(in millions, except ratio data)  
2009 
 2008 
 2007 
 TSS firmwide disclosures 
    
Treasury Services revenue Œ 
reported
(a)
 $     3,702
 $     3,779 $     3,190 
Treasury Services revenue  
reported in CB  
2,642
 2,648 
2,350 
 Treasury Services revenue  
reported in other lines of  
business  
245
 299 
270 
 Treasury Services firmwide 
revenue
(a)
 (b)
 6,589
 6,726 
5,810 
 Worldwide Securities Services 
revenue
(a)
   
3,642
 4,355 
3,755 
 Treasury & Securities Ser-
vices firmwide revenue
(b)
  $   10,231
 $   11,081 $     
9,565 
 Treasury Services firmwide liability 
balances (average)
(c)
 (d)
   
$ 274,472
 $ 264,195 $ 
217,142 
 Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide liability balances  
(average)
(c)
  
 361,247
 382,947 
316,651 
 TSS firmwide financial ratios 
    
Treasury Services firmwide 
overhead ratio
(e)
  
53 
% 50%
 55% 
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide overhead ratio
(e)
  
62
 57 
60 
  Selected metrics 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions, except ratio data
  and where othe
rwise noted)
 2009
 2008 2007 
Firmwide business metrics 
    Assets under custody (in billions) 
 $   14,885
 $  13,205 $  
15,946 
 Number of:  
   U.S.$ ACH transactions  
originated (in millions)  
3,896
 4,000 3,870 
Total U.S.$ clearing volume  
(in thousands)  
113,476
 115,742 
111,036 
 International electronic funds 
transfer volume (in thou-
sands)
(f)
  
193,348
 171,036 
168,605 
 Wholesale check volume  
(in millions)  
2,184
 2,408 
2,925 
 Wholesale cards issued  
(in thousands)
(g)
  
27,138
 22,784 
18,722 
 Credit data and quality 
statistics 
   
Net charge-offs/(recoveries) 
  $         19
 $          (2) $       Š 
Nonperforming loans 
14
 30 Š 
Allowance for credit losses:    
Allowance for loan losses 
88
 74 18 
Allowance for lending-related 
    commitments 
84
 63 32 
Total allowance for credit losses 
172
 137 50 
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate 
0.10% 
(0.01)%
    Š% 
Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans 
0.46
 0.30   0.10 
Allowance for loan losses to 
average loans 
0.48
 0.28   0.09 
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans 
NM
 247 NM 
Nonperforming loans to period-
end loans
 0.07
 0.12 Š 
Nonperforming loans to average 
loans
 0.08
 0.11 Š 
(a) Reflects an internal reorganization for escrow products from Worldwide 
Securities Services to Treasury Services revenue of $168 million, $224 million 
and $177 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, 
respectively. 
(b) TSS firmwide revenue includes FX revenue recorded in TSS and FX revenue 
associated with TSS customers who are FX customers of IB. However, some of 

the FX revenue associated with TSS customers who are FX customers of IB is 
not included in TS and TSS firmwide revenue. These amounts were $661 mil-

lion, $880 million and $552 million, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 
2008 and 2007, respectively. 
(c)  Firmwide liability balances include liability balances recorded in CB.  
(d) Reflects an internal reorganization for escrow products, from Worldwide 
Securities Services to TS liability balances, of $15.6 billion, $21.5 billion and 

$18.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, re-

spectively. 
(e)  Overhead ratios have been calculated based on firmwide revenue and TSS 
and TS expense, respectively, including those allocated to certain other lines 

of business. FX revenue and expense recorded in IB for TSS-related FX activity 
are not included in this ratio.  
(f)  International electronic funds transfer includes non-U.S. dollar ACH and 
clearing volume.  
(g) Wholesale cards issued include domestic commercial, stored value, prepaid 
and government electronic benefit card products.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  79
 ASSET MANAGEMENT  
Asset Management, with assets under supervision 
of $1.7 trillion, is a global leader in investment and 
wealth management. AM clients include institutions, 
retail investors and high-net-worth individuals in 
every major market throughout the world. AM of-
fers global investment management in equities, 
fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private eq-
uity and liquidity, including money market instru-
ments and bank deposits. AM also provides trust 
and estate, banking and brokerage services to high-
net-worth clients, and retirement services for corpo-
rations and individuals. The majority of AM™s client 
assets are in actively managed portfolios.  
 Selected income statement data
 Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios) 
2009
 2008 2007 
Revenue 
   
Asset management, administration 
and commissions 
$   5,621
 $
   6,004 
 $  
6,821 
 All other income  
751
 62 
654 
 Noninterest revenue  
6,372
 6,066 
7,475 
 Net interest income  
1,593
 1,518 
1,160 
 Total net revenue  
7,965
 7,584 
8,635 
 Provision for credit losses  
188
 85 
(18 
) 
Noninterest expense  
   
Compensation expense  
3,375
 3,216 3,521 
Noncompensation expense  
2,021
 2,000 
1,915 
 Amortization of intangibles  
77
 82 
79 
 Total noninterest expense  
5,473
 5,298 
5,515 
 Income before income tax expense 
2,304
 2,201 3,138 
Income tax expense  
874
 844 
1,172 
 Net income 
 $   1,430
 $   1,357 $
   1,966 
 Revenue by client segment 
    
Private Bank
(a)
 $   2,585
 $   2,565 $   2,362 
Institutional  
 2,065
  1,775 
2,525 
 Retail 
1,580
 1,620 2,408 
Private Wealth Management
(a)
 1,316
 1,387 1,340 
Bear Stearns Private Client  
Services
(b)
  
419
 237 
  Š 
Total net revenue 
 $   7,965
 $   7,584 $  
8,635 
 Financial ratios
    
ROE  
20%
  24 
%  51 
%Overhead ratio  
69
 70 
64 
 Pretax margin ratio
(c)
  
29
 29 
36 
 (a) In 2008, certain clients were transferred from Private Bank to Private Wealth 
Management. Prior periods have been revised to conform to this change.  
(b) Bear Stearns Private Client Services was renamed to JPMorgan Securities at 
the beginning of 2010. 
(c)  Pretax margin represents income before income tax expense divided by total 
net revenue, which is a measure of pretax performance and another basis by 
which management evaluates its performance and that of its competitors.  
 2009 compared with 2008    
Net income was $1.4 billion, an increase of $73 million, or 5%, 
from the prior year, due to higher total net revenue, offset largely 
by higher noninterest expense and provision for credit losses.  
Total net revenue was $8.0 billion, an increase of $381 million, or 
5%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $6.4 billion, an 

increase of $306 million, or 5%, due to higher valuations of seed 

capital investments and net inflows, offset largely by lower market 
levels. Net interest income was $1.6 billion, up by $75 million, or 
5%, from the prior year, due to wider loan spreads and higher 
deposit balances, offset partially by narrower deposit spreads.  
Revenue from the Private Bank was $2.6 billion, up 1% from the 
prior year due to wider loan spreads and higher deposit balances, 

offset partially by the effect of lower market levels. Revenue from 

Institutional was $2.1 billion, up 16% due to higher valuations of 

seed capital investments and net inflows, offset partially by the 
effect of lower market levels. Revenue from Retail was $1.6 billion, 
down 2% due to the effect of lower market levels, offset largely by 

higher valuations of seed capital investments. Revenue from Private 

Wealth Management was $1.3 billion, down 5% due to narrower 

deposit spreads and the effect of lower market levels, offset par-

tially by higher deposit balances and wider loan spreads. Bear 

Stearns Private Client Services contributed $419 million to revenue. 
The provision for credit losses was $188 million, an increase of 
$103 million from the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in 
the credit environment.  
Noninterest expense was $5.5 billion, an increase of $175 million, 
or 3%, from the prior year due to the effect of the Bear Stearns 

merger, higher performance-based compensation and higher FDIC 

insurance premiums, offset largely by lower headcount-related 
expense. 
2008 compared with 2007 
 Net income was $1.4 billion, a decline of $609 million, or 31%, 
from the prior year, driven by lower total net revenue offset partially 
by lower noninterest expense. 
Total net revenue was $7.6 billion, a decrease of $1.1 billion, or 
12%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $6.1 billion, a 

decline of $1.4 billion, or 19%, due to lower performance fees and 

the effect of market levels, including the impact of lower market 

valuations of seed capital investments. The lower results were 
offset partially by the benefit of the Bear Stearns merger and in-
creased revenue from net asset inflows. Net interest income was 

$1.5 billion, up $358 million, or 31%, from the prior year, due to 
higher deposit and loan balances and wider deposit spreads.  
Private Bank revenue grew 9% to $2.6 billion, due to increased 
deposit and loan balances and net asset inflows, partially offset by 

the effect of lower markets and lower performance fees. Institu-

tional revenue declined 30% to $1.8 billion due to lower perform-
ance fees, partially offset by net liquidity inflows. Retail revenue 
declined 33% to $1.6 billion due to the effect of lower markets, 

including the impact of lower market valuations of seed capital 

investments and net equity outflows. Private Wealth Management 

revenue grew 4% to $1.4 billion due to higher deposit and loan 

balances. Bear Stearns Brokerage contributed $237 million to 

revenue. 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 80
 The provision for credit losses was $85 million, compared with a 
benefit of $18 million in the prior year, reflecting a weakening 
credit environment. 
Noninterest expense was $5.3 billion, down $217 million, or 4%, 
compared with the prior year due to lower performance-based 

compensation, largely offset by the effect of the Bear Stearns 
merger and higher compensation expense resulting from increased 
average headcount. 
Selected metrics 
      
Year ended December 31,   
     
(in millions, except head
count, 
ranking data, and where  
otherwise noted) 
2009 
2008 2007 
Business metrics 
  Number of: 
  
Client advisors
(a)
 1,934 
1,840 1,868 
Retirement planning  

   services participants  
   (in thousands) 
1,628 
1,531 1,501 
Bear Stearns brokers
(b)
 376 
324 Š 
% of customer assets in 4 & 
 5 Star Funds
(c)
  42%
 42%
 55%
 % of AUM in 1
st
 and 2
nd
  
quartiles:
(d)
    1 year 
57%
 54%
 57%
 3 years 
62%
 65%
 75%
 5 years 
74%
 76%
 76%
 Selected balance sheet 
data (period-end) 
   Loans 
 $  37,755 
$ 36,188 $ 36,089 
Equity 
7,000 
7,000 4,000 
Selected balance sheet 
data (average) 
   Total assets 
 $ 60,249 
$ 65,550 $ 51,882 
Loans 
34,963 
38,124 29,496 
Deposits 
77,005 
70,179 58,863 
Equity 
7,000 
5,645 3,876 
Headcount
 15,136 
15,339 14,799 
Credit data and quality 
statistics
    Net charge-offs/(recoveries) 
 $      117
  $       11 $        (8) 
Nonperforming loans 
580 
147 12 
Allowance for credit losses: 
   
Allowance for loan losses 
269 
191 112 
Allowance for lending- 
  related commitments 
9 
5 7 
Total allowance for credit 
losses 
 $    278 
$     196 $     119 
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate 
0.33
%             0.03%
 (0.03
)%
 Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans 
0.71
0.53 0.31 
Allowance for loan losses to 
average loans 
0.77
0.50 0.38 
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans 
46
130 933 
Nonperforming loans to 
period-end loans 
1.54
0.41 0.03 
Nonperforming loans to 
average loans 
1.66
0.39 0.04 
(a)   Prior periods have been restated to conform to current methodologies. 
(b)  Bear Stearns Private Client Services was renamed to JPMorgan Securities at 
the beginning of 2010.  
(c) Derived from following rating services: Morningstar for the United States; 
Micropal for the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Hong Kong and Taiwan; and 

Nomura for Japan. 
(d)   Derived from following rating services: Lipper for the United States and Taiwan; 
Micropal for the United Kingdom, Luxembourg and Hong Kong; and Nomura 

for Japan. 
 AM™s client segments comprise the following: 
Institutional
 brings comprehensive global investment services Œ 
including asset management, pension analytics, asset-liability 
management and active risk-budgeting strategies Œ to corporate 
and public institutions, endowments, foundations, not-for-profit 
organizations and governments worldwide. 
Retail
 provides worldwide investment management services and 
retirement planning and administration, through third-party and 
direct distribution of a full range of investment vehicles.  
The 
Private Bank 
addresses every facet of wealth management 
for ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide, in-
cluding investment management, capital markets and risk man-
agement, tax and estate planning, banking, capital raising and 
specialty-wealth advisory services. 
Private Wealth Management 
offers high-net-worth individu-
als, families and business owners in the United States compre-
hensive wealth management solutions, including investment 
management, capital markets and risk management, tax and 
estate planning, banking and specialty-wealth advisory services. 
Bear Stearns Private Client Services 
(renamed to JPMorgan 
Securities at the beginning of 2010) provides investment advice 
and wealth management services to high-net-worth individuals, 
money managers, and small corporations.
  J.P. Morgan Asset Management has established two 
high-level measures of its overall performance. 
 Ł  Percentage of assets under management in funds rated 4 and 5 
stars (3 year). Mutual fund rating services rank funds based on 
their risk-adjusted performance over various periods. A 5 star 
rating is the best and represents the top 10% of industry wide 
ranked funds. A 4 star rating represents the next 22% of indus-
try wide ranked funds. The worst rating is a 1 star rating. 
Ł Percentage of assets under management in first- or second- 
quartile funds (one, three and five years). Mutual fund rating 
services rank funds according to a peer-based performance sys-
tem, which measures returns according to specific time and 
fund classification (small, mid, multi and large cap). 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  81
 Assets under supervision 
2009 compared with 2008  
Assets under supervision were $1.7 trillion, an increase of $205 
billion, or 14%, from the prior year. Assets under management 

were $1.2 trillion, an increase of $116 billion, or 10%, from the 

prior year. The increases were due to the effect of higher market 

valuations and inflows in fixed income and equity products offset 

partially by outflows in cash products. Custody, brokerage, admini-

stration and deposit balances were $452 billion, up by $89 billion, 

due to the effect of higher market levels on custody and brokerage 

balances, and brokerage inflows in the Private Bank. The Firm also 

has a 42% interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whose 

AUM totaled $86 billion and $70 billion at December 31, 2009 and 

2008, respectively, which are excluded from the AUM above. 
2008 compared with 2007 
Assets under supervision were $1.5 trillion, a decrease of $76 

billion, or 5%, from the prior year. Assets under management were 

$1.1 trillion, down $60 billion, or 5%, from the prior year. The 

decrease was due to the effect of lower market valuations and non-

liquidity outflows, predominantly offset by liquidity product inflows 

across all segments and the addition of Bear Stearns assets under 

management. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit 

balances were $363 billion, down $16 billion due to the effect of 

lower markets on brokerage and custody balances, offset by the 

addition of Bear Stearns Brokerage. The Firm also has a 43% 

interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled 

$70 billion and $102 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, 

respectively, which are excluded from the AUM above. 
Assets under supervision
(a)
 As of or for the year  
ended December 31, (in billions) 
2009
20082007
Assets by asset class 
Liquidity 
 $    591
$   613$    400
Fixed income  
  226
180200
Equities & multi-asset 
  339
240472
Alternatives 
  93
100121
Total assets under management  
  1,249
1,1331,193
Custody/brokerage/administration/
    deposits 
  452
363379
Total assets under supervision  
 $ 1,701
$ 1,496$ 1,572
Assets by client segment   
Institutional 
 $    709
$    681$    632
Private Bank
(b)
  
  187
181183
Retail 
  270
194300
Private Wealth Management
(b)
  
  69
7178
Bear Stearns Private Client Ser-
vices
(c)
   14
6Š
Total assets under management  
 $ 1,249
$ 1,133$ 1,193
Institutional 
 $    710
$    682$    633
Private Bank
(b)
  
  452
378403
Retail 
  355
262394
Private Wealth Management
(b)
  
  129
124142
Bear Stearns Private Client Services
(c)
   55
50Š
Total assets under supervision  
 $ 1,701
$ 1,496$ 1,572
 Assets by geographic region
 As of or for the year  
ended December 31, (in billions) 
 2009 
 2008
    2007
U.S./Canada  
 $ 837
  $    798
  $    760
International 
  412
   335
   433
Total assets under management 
 $ 1,249
  $ 1,133
  $ 1,193
U.S./Canada  
 $ 1,182
  $ 1,084
  $ 1,032
International 
  519
   412
   540
Total assets under supervision 
 $ 1,701
  $ 1,496
  $ 1,572
Mutual fund assets by asset 
class
   Liquidity 
 $ 539
  $    553
  $    339
Fixed income 
  67
   41
   46
Equities 
  143
   92
   218
Alternatives 
  9
   7
   6
Total mutual fund assets 
 $ 758
  $    693
  $    609
Assets under management  
rollforward  
  Beginning balance, January 1 
 $ 1,133
  $ 1,193
  $ 1,013
Net asset flows: 
  Liquidity 
  (23)
   210
   78
Fixed income 
  34
   (12)
   9
Equities, multi-asset and  

  alternative 
  17
   (47)
   28
Market/performance/other impacts
(d)
   88
   (211)
   65
Ending balance, December 31 
 $ 1,249
  $ 1,133
  $ 1,193
Assets under supervision  
rollforward
   Beginning balance, January 1 
 $ 1,496
  $ 1,572
  $ 1,347
Net asset flows 
  50
   181
   143
Market/performance/other impacts
(d)
   155
   (257)
   82
Ending balance, December 31 
 $ 1,701
  $ 1,496
  $ 1,572
(a) Excludes assets under management of American Century Companies, Inc., in 
which the Firm had a 42%, 43% and 44% ownership at December 31, 
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
(b) In 2008, certain clients were transferred from Private Bank to Private Wealth 
Management. Prior periods have been revised to conform to this change. 
(c)  Bear Stearns Private Client Services was renamed to JPMorgan Securities at 
the beginning of 2010.  
(d) Includes $15 billion for assets under management and $68 billion for assets 
under supervision from the Bear Stearns merger in the second quarter of 

2008. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 82
 CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY
The Corporate/Private Equity sector comprises Private 
Equity, Treasury, the Chief Investment Office, corporate 
staff units and expense that is centrally managed. Treas-
ury and the Chief Investment Office manage capital, 
liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange risk and  
the investment portfolio for the Firm. The corporate 
staff units include Central Technology and Operations, 
Internal Audit, Executive Office, Finance, Human Re-
sources, Marketing & Communications, Legal & Compli-
ance, Corporate Real Estate and General Services, Risk 
Management, Corporate Responsibility and Strategy & 
Development. Other centrally managed expense includes 
the Firm™s occupancy and pension-related expense, net 
of allocations to the business. 
Selected income statement data
 Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
2009
 2008 2007
  Revenue 
    Principal transactions
(a)(b)
 $  
1,574
 $ (3,588) $ 4,552
  Securities gains/(losses)
(c)
 1,139
 1,637 39
  All other income
(d)
 58
 1,673 465
  Noninterest revenue 
2,771
 (278) 5,056
  Net interest income/(expense) 
3,863
 347 (637
 ) 
Total net revenue 
6,634
 69 4,419
  Provision for credit losses 
 80
 447
(i)(j)
(11
 ) 
Provision for credit losses Œ  
accounting conformity
(e)
  Š 1,534 Š
  Noninterest expense 
    Compensation expense 
2,811
 2,340 2,754
  Noncompensation expense
(f)
 3,597
 1,841 3,025
  Merger costs 
481
 432 209
  Subtotal 
6,889
 4,613 5,988
  Net expense allocated to other 
businesses 
(4,994
) 
(4,641) (4,231
 ) 
Total noninterest expense 
1,895
 (28) 1,757
  Income/(loss) before income  
tax expense/(benefit) and  

extraordinary gain 
4,659
 (1,884) 2,673
  Income tax expense/(benefit)
(g)
 1,705
 (535) 788
  Income/(loss) before  
extraordinary gain 
2,954
 (1,349) 1,885
  Extraordinary gain
(h)
 76
 1,906 Š
  Net income
 $  
3,030
 $     557 $ 1,885
  (a) Included losses on preferred equity interests in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 
2008. 
(b) The Firm adopted the new guidance for fair value in the first quarter of 2007. 
See Note 3 on pages 156Œ173 of this Annual Report for additional information. 
(c) Included gain on sale of MasterCard shares in 2008. 
(d) Included a gain from the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint 
venture and proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initial public offering in 
2008. 
(e) Represents an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the 
acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank™s banking operations. 
(f) Included $675 million FDIC special assessment during second quarter of 2009 
and a release of credit card litigation reserves in 2008 and insurance recoveries 

related to settlement of the Enron and WorldCom class action litigations.  
(g) Includes tax benefits recognized upon resolution of tax audits. 
(h)  Effective September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired Washington Mutual™s 
banking operations from the FDIC for $1.9 billion. The fair value of the Washing-
ton Mutual net assets acquired exceeded the purchase price, which resulted in 
negative goodwill. In accordance with U.S. GAAP for business combinations, 
nonfinancial assets that are not held-for-sale were written down against that 

negative goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained after writing down non-
financial assets was recognized as an extraordinary gain in 2008. As a result of 
the final refinement of the purchase price allocation during the third quarter 
of 2009, the Firm recognized a $76 million increase in the extraordinary gain.   
(i) In November 2008, the Firm transferred $5.8 billion of higher quality credit card 
loans from the legacy Chase portfolio to a securitization trust previously estab-

lished by Washington Mutual (ﬁthe Trustﬂ). As a result of converting higher 

credit quality Chase-originated on-book receivables to the Trust™s seller™s interest 
which has a higher overall loss rate reflective of the total assets within the Trust, 
approximately $400 million of incremental provision expense was recorded dur-

ing the fourth quarter. This incremental provision expense was recorded in the 
Corporate segment as the action related to the acquisition of Washington Mu-
tual's banking operations. For further discussion of credit card securitizations, 

see Note 15 on pages 206Œ213 of this Annual Report. 
(j) Includes $9 million of credit card securitizations related to the Washington 
Mutual transaction. 
2009 compared with 2008  
Net income was $3.0 billion compared with $557 million in the  

prior year. 
Net loss for Private Equity was $78 million compared with a net loss 
of $690 million in the prior year. Net revenue was $18 million, an 

increase of $981 million, reflecting Private Equity losses of $54 mil-

lion compared with losses of $894 million. Noninterest expense was 

$141 million, an increase of $21 million. 
Net income for Corporate was $3.7 billion, compared with $1.5 
billion in the prior year. Current year results reflect higher levels of 

trading gains and net interest income, securities gains, an after-tax 

gain of $150 million from the sale of MasterCard shares, partially 
offset by a $419 million FDIC special assessment. Trading gains and 
net interest income increased due to the Chief Investment Office™s 

(ﬁCIOﬂ) significant purchases of mortgage-backed securities guaran-

teed by U.S. government agencies, corporate debt securities, U.S. 
Treasury and government agency securities and other asset-backed 
securities. These investments were generally associated with the 

management of interest rate risk and investment of cash resulting 

from the excess funding the Firm continued to experience during 
2009. The increase in securities was partially offset by sales of higher-
coupon instruments (part of repositioning the investment portfolio) as 

well as prepayments and maturities.  
Selected income statement and balance sheet data for  
Treasury and CIO 
Year ended December 31, 
   
(in millions) 
 2009
  2008 2007
 Treasury
   Securities gains
(a)
 $    1,147
 $ 1,652 $       37
 Investment securities portfolio (average)
(b)
  324,037 
 113,010 88,037
 Investment securities portfolio (ending)
(b)
  340,163 
 192,564 76,480
 Mortgage loans (average) 
 7,427
  7,059 5,639
 Mortgage loans (ending) 
 8,023
  7,292 6,635
 (a) Results for 2008 included a gain on the sale of MasterCard shares. All periods reflect 
repositioning of the Corporate investment securities portfolio and exclude 
gains/losses on securities used to manage risk associated with MSRs. 
(b) Beginning in second quarter 2009, balances reflect Treasury and Chief Investment 
Office securities. Prior periods have been revised to conform with this change. 
For further information on the investment portfolio, see Note 3 and 
Note 11 on pages 156Œ173 and 195Œ199, respectively, of this 
Annual Report. For further information on CIO VaR and the Firm™s 
earnings-at-risk, see the Market Risk Management section on pages 
126Œ132 of this Annual Report. 
Prior year results included $955 million proceeds from the sale of Visa 
shares in its initial public offering, $627 million from the dissolution 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  83
 of the Chase Payment Solutions joint venture, partially offset by losses 
of $642 million on preferred securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie 

Mac and a $248 million charge related to the offer to repurchases 

auction-rate securities. 
Merger-related items were a net loss of $635 million compared with 
a loss of $211 million in the prior year. Bear Stearns net merger-

related costs were $425 million compared with $836 million. The 

prior year included a net loss of $423 million, which represented 
JPMorgan Chase™s 49.4% ownership in Bear Stearn™s losses from 
April 8 to May 30, 2008. Washington Mutual net merger-related 

costs were $210 million, which included an extraordinary gain of $76 

million, compared with a net gain of $625 million. The prior year 
included an extraordinary gain of $1.9 billion, conforming loan loss 
reserves of $911 million, credit card related loan loss reserves of 
$250 million and net merger-related costs of $120 million. 
2008 compared with 2007  
Net income for Corporate/Private Equity was $557 million, compared 

with net income of $1.9 billion in the prior year.  
Net loss for Private Equity was $690 million, compared with net income 
of $2.2 billion in the prior year. Net revenue was a loss of $963 million, 
a decrease of $4.9 billion, reflecting Private Equity losses of $894 

million, compared with gains of $4.1 billion in the prior year. Noninter-

est expense was $120 million, a decrease of $469 million from the prior 

year, reflecting lower compensation expense. 
Net income for Corporate was $1.5 billion, compared with a net loss of 
$150 million in the prior year. 2008 included a gain of $955 million on 

the proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initial public offering, 

$627 million on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint 
venture, and $414 million from the sale of MasterCard shares, partially 
offset by losses of $642 million on preferred securities of Fannie Mae 

and Freddie Mac and $303 million related to the offer to repurchase 

auction-rate securities. 2007 included a gain of $145 million on the sale 

of MasterCard shares.  
Merger-related items were a net loss of $211 million, compared with a 
net loss of $130 million in the prior year. Items related to the Washing-

ton Mutual transaction included a $1.9 billion extraordinary gain, 

conforming loan loss reserves of $911 million, credit card related loan 
loss reserves of $250 million and net merger-related costs of $120 
million. Bear Stearns merger-related items included a net loss of $423 

million, which represented JPMorgan Chase™s 49.4% ownership in Bear 

Stearn™s losses from April 8 to May 30, 2008 and net merger-related 
costs of $413 million. Results for 2007 include merger costs of $130 
million related to the Bank One and Bank of New York Transactions. 
Selected metrics       
Year ended December 31,  
    
(in millions, except headcount)
 2009
 2008 2007
  Total net revenue 
   Private equity
(a)
  $    18
 $   (963) $   3,967
  Corporate  
  6,616 
1,032 452
  Total net revenue  
 $ 6,634 
$      69 $   4,419
  Net income/(loss)
   
  Private equity
(a)
  
 $ (78)
 $   (690) $   2,165
  Corporate
(b)(c)
   3,743
 1,458 (150
 ) 
Merger 
Œ related items
(d)
   (635)
 (211) (130
 ) 
Total net income
  $ 3,030
 $    557 $  1,885
  Headcount 
  20,199
 23,376 22,512
  (a) The Firm adopted the new guidance for fair value in the first quarter of 2007.  
See Note 3 on pages 156Œ173 of this Annual Report for additional information. 
(b) Included $675 million FDIC special assessment during second quarter of 2009 and  
a release of credit card litigation reserves in 2008 and insurance recoveries related to 
settlement of the Enron and WorldCom class action litigations. 
(c) Includes tax benefits recognized upon resolution of tax audits. 

(d) Includes an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision and an extraordinary 
gain related to the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 2008 also reflects items 
related to the Bear Stearns merger, which included Bear Stearns™ equity earnings, 
merger costs, Bear Stearns asset management liquidation costs and Bear Stearns 

private client services broker retention expense. 2007 represent costs related to the 
Bank One transaction in 2004 and the Bank of New York transaction in 2006. 
 Private equity portfolio 
2009 compared with 2008 
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December 31, 
2009, was $7.3 billion, up from $6.9 billion at December 31, 2008. 
The portfolio increase was primarily driven by additional follow-on 

investments and net unrealized gains on the existing portfolio, 
partially offset by sales during 2009. The portfolio represented 
6.3% of the Firm™s stockholders™ equity less goodwill at December 
31, 2009, up from 5.8% at December 31, 2008.
 2008 compared with 2007  
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December 31, 2008, 
was $6.9 billion, down from $7.2 billion at December 31, 2007. The 
portfolio decrease was primarily driven by unfavorable valuation ad-

justments on existing investments, partially offset by new investments, 

and the addition of the Bear Stearns portfolios. The portfolio repre-
sented 5.8% of the Firm™s stockholders™ equity less goodwill at Decem-
ber 31, 2008, down from 9.2% at December 31, 2007. 
Selected income statement and balance sheet data  
Year ended December 31, 
   
(in millions) 
 2009
  2008 2007
 Private equity 
   
 Realized gains 
  $ 109
   $ 1,717 $  2,312
 Unrealized gains/(losses)
(a)(b)
  (81)
  (2,480)
 1,607
 Total direct investments
  28
  (763)
 3,919
 Third-party fund investments  
 (82)
  (131)
 165
 Total private equity gains/(losses)
(c)
   $ (54)
   $ (894)
 $  4,084
 Private equity portfolio  
information
(d)
   
 Direct investments
   
 Publicly held securities
   
 Carrying value 
  $ 762
   $ 483 $    390
 Cost 
  743
  792 288
 Quoted public value 
  791
  543 536
 Privately held direct securities
   
 Carrying value 
  5,104
  5,564 5,914
 Cost 
  5,959
  6,296 4,867
 Third-party fund investments
(e)
   
 Carrying value 
  1,459
  805 849
 Cost 
  2,079
  1,169 1,076
 Total private equity portfolio Œ Carrying 
value 
  $ 7,325
   $ 6,852 $ 7,153
 Total private equity portfolio Œ Cost 
  $ 8,781
   $ 8,257 $ 6,231
  (a) Unrealized gains/(losses) contain reversals of unrealized gains and losses that were 
recognized in prior periods and have now been realized. 
(b) The Firm adopted the new guidance for fair value in the first quarter of 2007. For 
additional information, see Note 3 on pages 156Œ173 of this Annual Report. 
(c) Included in principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
(d) For more information on the Firm™s policies regarding the valuation of the private 
equity portfolio, see Note 3 on pages 156Œ173 of this Annual Report. 
(e) Unfunded commitments to third-party equity funds were $1.5 billion, $1.4 billion and 
$881 million at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 84
 BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS
Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets data 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2009
 2008 
Assets
   
Cash and due from banks 
$ 26,206
  $ 26,895 
Deposits with banks  
 63,230
 138,139 
Federal funds sold and securities pur-
chased under resale agreements 
 195,404
 203,115 
Securities borrowed 
 119,630
 124,000 
Trading assets: 
  Debt and equity instruments 
 330,918
 347,357 
Derivative receivables 
 80,210
 162,626 
Securities 
 360,390
 205,943 
Loans 
 633,458
 744,898 
Allowance for loan losses 
 (31,602)
 (23,164) 
Loans, net of allowance for loan losses 
 601,856
 721,734 
Accrued interest and accounts receivable   
 67,427
 60,987 
Premises and equipment    
 11,118
 10,045 
Goodwill   
 48,357
 48,027 
Mortgage servicing rights 
 15,531
 9,403 
Other intangible assets 
 4,621
 5,581 
Other assets  
 107,091
 111,200 
Total assets
 $ 2,031,989
  $ 2,175,052 
Liabilities
   
Deposits 
$ 938,367
  $ 1,009,277 
Federal funds purchased and securities 
loaned or sold under repurchase agree-
ments 
 261,413
 192,546 
Commercial paper  
 41,794
 37,845 
Other borrowed funds  
 55,740
 132,400 
Trading liabilities: 
   Debt and equity instruments 
 64,946
 45,274 
Derivative payables 
 60,125
 121,604 
Accounts payable and other liabilities 
 162,696
 187,978 
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated 
VIEs 
 15,225
 10,561 
Long-term debt  
 266,318
 270,683 
Total liabilities
  1,866,624
 2,008,168 
Stockholders™ equity
  165,365
 166,884 
Total liabilities and stockholders™ 
equity 
$ 2,031,989
  $ 2,175,052 
 Consolidated Balance Sheets overview  

The following is a discussion of the significant changes in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets from December 31, 2008.
 Deposits with banks; federal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements; and securities  

borrowed  
The Firm uses these instruments as part of its liquidity management 
activities, to manage the Firm™s cash positions and risk-based capital 

requirements, and to support the Firm™s trading and risk management 

activities. In particular, the Firm uses securities purchased under resale 

agreements and securities borrowed to provide funding or liquidity to 

clients by purchasing and borrowing their securities for the short-term. 
The decrease in deposits with banks primarily reflected lower demand 
for interbank lending and lower deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank 

relative to the elevated levels at the end of 2008. The decrease in 

securities purchased under resale agreements was largely due to a shift 

by the Firm of its excess cash to the available-for-sale (ﬁAFSﬂ) securities 

portfolio, offset partially by higher securities purchased under resale 
agreements in IB due to improved and more liquid market conditions. 
For additional information on the Firm™s Liquidity Risk Management, see 
pages 96Œ100 of this Annual Report.
  
Trading assets and liabilities Œ debt and equity  
instruments 
Debt and equity trading instruments are used for both market-making 
and, to a limited extent, proprietary risk-taking activities. These 

instruments consist predominantly of fixed-income securities, includ-

ing government and corporate debt; equity securities, including 

convertible securities; loans, including prime mortgage and other 

loans warehoused by RFS and IB for sale or securitization purposes 
and accounted for at fair value; and physical commodities inventories 
carried at the lower of cost or fair value. The decrease in trading 

assets Œ debt and equity instruments reflected the effect of balance 

sheet management activities and the impact of the challenging 

capital markets environment that existed during the latter part of 

2008, which continued into the first half of 2009, partially offset by 
stabilization in the capital markets during the second half of 2009. 
Trading liabilities Œ debt and equity instruments increased as market 

conditions improved and capital markets stabilized from the prior 

year. For additional information, refer to Note 3 on pages 156Œ173 
of this Annual Report.
 Trading assets and liabilities Œ derivative receivables and 
payables  

Derivative instruments enable end-users to transform or mitigate 
exposure to credit or market risks. The value of a derivative is 
derived from its reference to an underlying variable or combination 

of variables, such as interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity 

or commodity prices or indices. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in 

derivatives for customers and also uses derivatives to hedge or 

manage risks of market exposures and to make investments. The 
majority of the Firm™s derivatives are entered into for market-
making purposes. The decrease in derivative receivables and pay-

ables was primarily related to tightening credit spreads, volatile 

foreign exchange rates and rising rates on interest rate swaps. For 

additional information, refer to Derivative contracts on pages 110Œ

112, and Note 3 and Note 5 on pages 156Œ173 and 175Œ183, 

respectively, of this Annual Report.
 Securities 
Substantially all of the securities portfolio is classified as AFS and is 
used primarily to manage the Firm™s exposure to interest rate 

movements and to invest cash resulting from excess funding posi-

tions. The increase in the securities portfolio was due to elevated 

levels of excess cash, which was used to purchase mortgage-

backed securities guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, corpo-
rate debt securities, U.S. Treasury and government agency securi-
ties and other asset-backed securities. The increase in securities 

was partially offset by sales of higher-coupon instruments, as part 

of positioning of the portfolio, as well as prepayments and maturi-

ties. For additional information related to securities, refer to the 

Corporate/Private Equity segment on pages 82Œ83, and Note 3 and 
Note 11 on pages 156Œ173 and 195Œ199, respectively, of this 
Annual Report.
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  85
 Loans and allowance for loan losses 
The Firm provides loans to a variety of customers, from large corpo-

rate and institutional clients to individual consumers. Loans decreased 

across most lines of business. Although gross new lending volumes 
remained at levels consistent with 2008, continued lower customer 
demand, repayments and charge-offs in the wholesale and consumer 

businesses resulted in lower balances. Lower charge volume on credit 

cards and the effect of tighter underwriting and loan qualification 
standards, also contributed to the decrease in loans.
 The allowance for loan losses increased in both the consumer and 
wholesale businesses, as weak economic conditions, housing price 

declines and higher unemployment rates continued to drive higher 
estimated losses for most of the Firm™s loan portfolios. For a more 
detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the allowance for loan 

losses, refer to Credit Risk Management on pages 101Œ125, and 

Notes 3, 4, 13 and 14 on pages 156Œ173, 173Œ175, 200Œ204 and 
204Œ206, respectively, of this Annual Report. 
Accrued interest and accounts receivable 
Accrued interest and accounts receivable consist of accrued interest 

receivables from interest-earning assets; receivables from customers 
(primarily from activities related to IB™s Prime Services business); 
receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations; and 

receivables from failed securities sales. The increase in accrued 

interest and accounts receivable primarily reflected higher accounts 

receivable associated with maturities of credit card securitizations, 
as well as slightly higher failed securities sales. 
Other assets 
Other assets consist of private equity and other investments, collat-
eral received, corporate and bank-owned life insurance policies, 
assets acquired in loan satisfactions (including real estate owned) 

and all other assets, including receivables for securities provided as 

collateral. The decrease in other assets was primarily due to a 

decline to zero in the balance related to the Federal Reserve Bank 

of Boston AML Facility. This Facility was ended by the Federal 

Reserve Bank of Boston on February 1, 2010.
 Goodwill 
Goodwill arises from business combinations and represents the excess 
of the purchase price of an acquired entity over the fair value amounts 

assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The increase in 

goodwill was largely due to final purchase accounting adjustments 

related to the Bear Stearns merger, foreign currency translation adjust-

ments related to the Firm™s Canadian credit card operations, and IB™s 
acquisition of a commodities business. For additional information on 
goodwill, see Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 of this Annual Report.  
Mortgage servicing rights 
MSRs represent the fair value of future cash flows for performing 

specified mortgage servicing activities (predominantly with respect 

to residential mortgages) for others. MSRs are either purchased 

from third parties or retained upon sale or securitization of mort-

gage loans. Servicing activities include collecting principal, interest, 
and escrow payments from borrowers; making tax and insurance 
payments on behalf of borrowers; monitoring delinquencies and 

executing foreclosure proceedings; and accounting for and remit-

ting principal and interest payments to the investors of the mort-

gage-backed securities. MSRs increased due to increases in the fair 
value of the MSR asset, related primarily to market interest rate and 

other changes affecting the Firm™s estimate of future prepayments, 

as well as sales in RFS of originated loans for which servicing rights 

were retained. These increases were offset partially by servicing 
portfolio run-off. For additional information on MSRs, see Note 17 
on pages 222Œ225 of this Annual Report. 
Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets consist of purchased credit card relation-

ships, other credit cardŒrelated intangibles, core deposit intangibles 

and other intangibles. The decrease in other intangible assets 

primarily reflected amortization expense, partially offset by foreign 

currency translation adjustments related to the Firm™s Canadian 
credit card operations. For additional information on other intangi-
ble assets, see Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 of this Annual Report.  
 Deposits 
Deposits represent a liability to customers, both retail and whole-

sale, related to non-brokerage funds held on their behalf. Deposits 

are classified by location (U.S. and non-U.S.), whether they are 

interest- or noninterest-bearing, and by type (i.e., demand, money 

market, savings, time or negotiable order of withdrawal accounts). 
Deposits help provide a stable and consistent source of funding for 
the Firm. Wholesale deposits in TSS declined from the elevated 

levels at December 31, 2008, reflecting the continued normaliza-

tion of deposit levels following the strong inflows resulting from the 

heightened volatility and credit concerns affecting the markets 

during the latter part of 2008. Organic growth in deposits in CB 
and RFS was offset partially by the maturity of high rate interest-
bearing CDs that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual 

transaction. For more information on deposits, refer to the RFS and 

AM segment discussions on pages 66Œ71 and 79Œ81, respectively; 

the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 96Œ100; and 

Note 19 on page 226 of this Annual Report. For more information 
on wholesale liability balances, including deposits, refer to the CB 
and TSS segment discussions on pages 75Œ76 and 77Œ78, respec-
tively, of this Annual Report.  
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 
repurchase agreements 

The Firm uses these instruments as part of its liquidity management 

activities and to support the Firm™s trading and risk management 

activities. In particular, the Firm uses federal funds purchased and 
securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements as short-
term funding sources and to make securities available to clients for 

their short-term liquidity purposes. The increase in securities sold 

under repurchase agreements was primarily attributable to favor-

able pricing and the financing of the increase in the AFS securities 

portfolio. For additional information on the Firm™s Liquidity Risk 

Management, see pages 96Œ100 of this Annual Report.
  
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds 
The Firm uses commercial paper and other borrowed funds as part of 
its liquidity management activities to meet short-term funding needs, 

and in connection with a TSS liquidity management product, whereby 

excess client funds are transferred into commercial paper overnight 

sweep accounts. The decrease in other borrowed funds was predomi-

nantly due to lower advances from Federal Home Loan Banks; the 
absence of borrowings from the Federal Reserve under the Term 
˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 86
 Auction Facility program and a decline to zero in the balance related 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston AML Facility, which was ended 

on February 1, 2010. For additional information on the Firm™s Liquid-

ity Risk Management and other borrowed funds, see pages 96Œ100, 

and Note 20 on page 227 of this Annual Report.
 Accounts payable and other liabilities 
Accounts payable and other liabilities consist of accounts payable 
to customers (primarily from activities related to IB™s Prime Services 

business); payables to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations; 

payables from failed securities purchases; accrued expense, includ-

ing interest-bearing liabilities; and all other liabilities, including 

obligations to return securities received as collateral. The decrease 
in accounts payable and other liabilities primarily reflected lower 
customer payables due predominantly to lower balances in the 
brokerage accounts of IB™s Prime Services customers.
 Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 
JPMorgan Chase uses VIEs to assist clients in accessing the finan-

cial markets in a cost-efficient manner. A VIE is consolidated if the 

Firm will absorb a majority of a VIE™s expected losses, receive a 

majority of a VIE™s expected residual returns, or both. Included in 
the caption ﬁbeneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEsﬂ are 
interest-bearing beneficial-interest liabilities issued by the consoli-

dated VIEs, which increased as a result of the consolidation during 

the second quarter of 2009 of a multi-seller conduit and a credit 

card loan securitization trust (Washington Mutual Master Trust). 

For additional information on Firm-sponsored VIEs and loan securi-
tization trusts, see OffŒBalance Sheet Arrangements and Contrac-
tual Cash Obligations below, and Note 16 on pages 214Œ222 of 
this Annual Report. 
 Long-term debt  
The Firm uses long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt 

securities) to provide cost-effective and diversified sources of funds 

and as critical components of the Firm™s liquidity and capital man-
agement activities. Long-term debt decreased slightly, predominantly 
due to net redemptions and maturities. The Firm also issued $11.0 

billion and $2.6 billion of non-FDIC guaranteed debt in the U.S. and 

European markets, respectively, and $2.5 billion of trust preferred 

capital debt securities. For additional information on the Firm™s long-

term debt activities, see the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on 

pages 96Œ100 of this Annual Report.   
Stockholders™ equity 
The decrease in total stockholders™ equity was largely due to the 
redemption in the second quarter of 2009 of the $25.0 billion 

Series K Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to 

TARP, and the declaration of cash dividends on preferred and 

common stock. The decrease was almost entirely offset by net 

income for 2009; the issuance of $5.8 billion of common equity in 
the public markets; a net increase in accumulated other compre-
hensive income, due primarily to net unrealized gains from overall 

market spread and market liquidity improvement, as well as 

changes in the composition of investments in the AFS securities 

portfolio; and net issuances under the Firm™s employee stock-based 

compensation plans. For a further discussion, see the Capital Man-
agement section on pages 90Œ93, Note 23 on pages 230Œ231 and 
Note 26 on page 233 of this Annual Report.   
 OFFŒBALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH 
OBLIGATIONS
JPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of offŒbalance sheet 
arrangements, including special purpose entities (ﬁSPEsﬂ) and 

lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and 

guarantees). 
Special-purpose entities 
The basic SPE structure involves a company selling a
ssets to the 
SPE. The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securi-
ties to investors in the form of commercial paper, short-term asset-

backed notes, medium-term notes and other forms of interest. SPEs 

are generally structured to insulate investors from claims on the 

SPE™s assets by creditors of other entities, including the creditors of 

the seller of the assets. 
SPEs are an important part of the financial markets, providing 
market liquidity by facilitating investors™ access to specific portfolios 

of assets and risks. These arrangements are integral to the markets 

for mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and other asset-

backed securities. 
JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity for itself and its 
clients by securitizing financial assets, and by creating investment 

products for clients. The Firm is involved with SPEs through multi-

seller conduits and investor intermediation activities, and as a result 
of its loan securitizations, through qualifying special purpose enti-

ties (ﬁQSPEsﬂ). This discussion focuses mostly on multi-seller con-

duits and investor intermediation. For a detailed discussion of all 

SPEs with which the Firm is involved, and the related accounting, 

see Note 1, Note 15 and Note 16 on pages 150Œ151, 206Œ213 

and 214Œ222, respectively, of this Annual Report. 
During the quarter ended June 30, 2009, the Firm took certain 
actions related to both the Chase Issuance Trust (the ﬁTrustﬂ) and 

the Washington Mutual Master Trust (the ﬁWMM Trustﬂ). These 

actions and their impact on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets 

and results of operations are further discussed in Note 15 on pages 

206Œ213 of this Annual Report. 
The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-
related transactions and related exposures, such as derivative 

transactions and lending-related commitments and guarantees. 
The Firm modifies loans that it services, and that were sold to off-
balance sheet SPEs, pursuant to the U.S. Treasury™s Making Home 

Affordable (ﬁMHAﬂ) programs and the Firm™s other loss mitigation 

programs. For both the Firm™s onŒbalance sheet loans and loans 

serviced for others, approximately 600,000 mortgage modifications 

had been offered to borrowers in 2009. Of these, 89,000 have 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  87
 achieved permanent modification. Substantially all of the loans 
contractually modified to date were modified under the Firm™s other 

loss mitigation programs. See Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 

114Œ123 of this Annual Report for more details on these loan 

modifications. 
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any 
SPE transaction, and its policies require that transactions with SPEs 

be conducted at arm™s length and reflect market pricing. Consistent 

with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to 

invest in SPEs with which the Firm is involved where such invest-

ment would violate the Firm™s Code of Conduct. These rules pro-

hibit employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf of the Firm 

in transactions with which they or their family have any significant 

financial interest. 
Implications of a credit rating downgrade to  
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
 For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm could be required 

to provide funding if the short-term credit rating of JPMorgan Chase 

Bank, N.A., was downgraded below specific levels, primarily ﬁP-1ﬂ, 

ﬁA-1ﬂ and ﬁF1ﬂ for Moody™s, Standard & Poor™s and Fitch, respec-

tively. The amount of these liquidity commitments was $34.2 billion 

and $61.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., were downgraded, the 

Firm could be replaced by another liquidity provider in lieu of provid-

ing funding under the liquidity commitment or, in certain circum-

stances, the Firm could facilitate the sale or refinancing of the assets 

in the SPE in order to provide liquidity. The Firm™s liquidity commit-

ments to SPEs are included in other unfunded commitments to extend 

credit and asset purchase agreements, as shown in the Off-balance 

sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees table on 

page 89 of this Annual Report.  
As noted above, the Firm is involved with three types of SPEs: 
multi-seller conduits, investor intermediation, and its own loan 

securitization activities. A summary of each type of SPE follows. 
Multi-seller conduits 
The Firm helps customers meet their financing needs by providing 

access to the commercial paper markets through VIEs known as 

multi-seller conduits. Multi-seller conduit entities are separate 

bankruptcy-remote entities that purchase interests in, and make 

loans secured by, pools of receivables and other financial assets 

pursuant to agreements with customers of the Firm. The conduits 

fund their purchases and loans through the issuance of highly-rated 

commercial paper to third-party investors. The primary source of 

repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flow from the pools 

of assets. JPMorgan Chase receives fees related to the structuring 

of multi-seller conduit transactions and receives compensation from 

the multi-seller conduits for its role as administrative agent, liquid-

ity provider, and provider of program-wide credit enhancement. 
Investor intermediation 
As a financial intermediary, the Firm creates certain types of VIEs 

and also structures transactions, typically derivative structures, with 

these VIEs to meet investor needs. The Firm may also provide 

liquidity and other support. The risks inherent in derivative instru-

ments or liquidity commitments are managed similarly to other 

credit, market and liquidity risks to which the Firm is exposed. The 

principal types of VIEs the Firm uses in these structuring activities 

are municipal bond vehicles, credit-linked note vehicles, asset swap 

vehicles and collateralized debt obligation vehicles. 
Loan securitizations 
JPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety of loans, including 

residential mortgages, credit cards, automobile, student, and 

commercial loans (primarily related to real estate). JPMorgan 

Chase-sponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as part of the securiti-

zation process. These SPEs were structured to meet the definition of 

a QSPE (as discussed in Note 1 on pages 150Œ151 of this Annual 

Report); accordingly, the assets and liabilities of securitization-

related QSPEs were not reflected on the Firm™s Consolidated Bal-

ance Sheets (except for retained interests, as described below) as of 

December 31, 2009. The primary purpose of these vehicles is to 

meet investor needs and generate liquidity for the Firm through the 

sale of loans to the QSPEs. These QSPEs are financed through the 

issuance of fixed- or floating-rate asset-backed securities that are 

sold to third-party investors or held by the Firm. For a discussion 

regarding the new consolidation guidance for VIEs including securi-

tization entities, see "Accounting for transfers of financial assets 

and consolidation of variable interest entities" on page 141 of this 

Annual Report. 
Special-purpose entities revenue 
The following table summarizes certain revenue information related 

to consolidated and nonconsolidated VIEs and QSPEs with which 

the Firm has significant involvement. The revenue reported in the 

table below primarily represents contractual servicing and credit fee 

income (i.e., for income from acting as administrator, structurer, 

liquidity provider). It does not include mark-to-market gains and 

losses from changes in the fair value of trading positions (such as 

derivative transactions) entered into with VIEs. Those gains and 

losses are recorded in principal transactions revenue.  
Revenue from VIEs and Securitization Entities
(a)
 Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
2009
20082007 
Multi-seller conduits 
$    460
$    314$    187
(c)
 Investor intermediation 
34
2233 
QSPEs and other securitization entities
(b)
 2,510
1,7421,420 
Total
 $ 3,004
$ 2,078$ 1,640 
(a) Includes revenue associated with both consolidated VIEs and significant 
nonconsolidated VIEs. 
(b) Excludes servicing revenue from loans sold to and securitized by third parties.  
(c) Excludes the markdown on subprime CDO assets that was recorded in 
principal transactions revenue in 2007.
 ˘
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 88
 OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial 
instruments and guarantees
 JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments 
(e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs 

of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial in-

struments represents the maximum possible credit risk should the 

counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required 

to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and the counterparty 

subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the con-

tract. These commitments and guarantees often expire without 

being drawn and even higher proportions expire without a de-

fault. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instru-

ments is not, in the Firm™s view, representative of its actual future 

credit exposure or funding requirements. For further discussion of 

lending-related commitments and guarantees and the Firm™s 

accounting for them, see page 113 and Note 31 on pages 238Œ

242 of this Annual Report. 
The accompanying table on the next page presents, as of December 
31, 2009, the contractual maturity amounts of offŒbalance sheet 

lending-related financial instruments and guarantees. The amounts 

in the table for credit card and home equity lending-related com-

mitments represent the total available credit for these products. The 

Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all available 

lines of credit for these products would be utilized at the same 

time. The Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by provid-

ing the borrower prior notice or, in some cases, without notice as 

permitted by law. The accompanying table excludes certain com-

mitments and guarantees that do not have a contractual maturity 

date (e.g., loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications). 

For further discussion, see Note 31 on pages 238Œ242 of this 

Annual Report. Asset purchase agreements are agreements with 

the Firm™s administered multi-seller, asset-backed commercial 

paper conduits, and other third-party entities. In 2009, the Firm 

consolidated a multi-seller conduit due to the redemption of the 
expected loss note. As a result, asset purchase agreements, in the 

following table, exclude $7.9 billion at December 31, 2009, related 

to this consolidated multi-seller conduit. The maturities, in the 

accompanying table, are based on the weighted-average life of the 

underlying assets in the SPE, which are based on the remainder of 

each conduit transaction™s committed liquidity facility plus either 

the expected weighted average life of the assets should the com-

mitted liquidity facility expire without renewal, or the expected time 

to sell the underlying assets in the securitization market. 
Contractual cash obligations
 In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various 

contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. 

Commitments for future cash expenditures primarily include con-

tracts to purchase future services and capital expenditures related 

to real estateŒrelated obligations and equipment.  
The accompanying table on the next page summarizes, by remaining 
maturity, JPMorgan Chase™s offŒbalance sheet lending-related finan-

cial instruments and significant contractual cash obligations at De-

cember 31, 2009. Contractual purchases and capital expenditures in 

the table below reflect the minimum contractual obligation under 

legally enforceable contracts with terms that are both fixed and 

determinable. Excluded from the following table are a number of 

obligations to be settled in cash, primarily in under one year. These 

obligations are reflected on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets 

and include federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold 

under repurchase agreements; commercial paper; other borrowed 

funds; purchases of debt and equity instruments; derivative payables; 

and certain purchases of instruments that resulted in settlement 

failures. Also excluded are contingent payments associated with 

certain acquisitions that could not be estimated. For discussion re-

garding long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt securi-

ties), see Note 22 on pages 228Œ229 of this Annual Report. For 

discussion regarding operating leases, see Note 30 on page 238 of 

this Annual Report. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  89
 The following table presents maturity information for off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments.  
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments 
By remaining maturity at December 31, (in millions)
   2009 
   2008 
  2010    2011-2012    2013-2014   After 2014             
Total 
             Total 
 Lending-related
       Consumer: 
      Home equity Š senior lien 
 $ 293
  $ 1,650
  $ 5,603
  $ 11,700
  $ 19,246
  $ 27,998
 Home equity Š junior lien 
  647
   3,998
   12,050
   20,536
   37,231
   67,745
 Prime mortgage 
  1,654
   Š
   Š
   Š
   1,654
   5,079
 Subprime mortgage 
  Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
 Option ARMs 
  Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
 Auto loans 
  5,380
   84
   3
   Š
   5,467
   4,726
 Credit card  
  569,113
   Š
   Š
   Š
   569,113
   623,702
 All other loans 
  9,907
   207
   109
   1,006
   11,229
   12,257
      Total consumer
   586,994
   5,939
   17,765
   33,242
   643,940
   741,507
 Wholesale: 
        Other unfunded commitments to extend credit
(a)
   71,855
   94,977
   20,728
   4,585
   192,145
   189,563
   Asset purchase agreements 
  8,659
   11,134
   2,755
   137
   22,685
   53,729
   Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees
(a)(b)(c)
   25,568
   47,203
   16,349
   2,365
   91,485
   95,352
 Unused advised lines of credit 
  31,826
   3,569
   62
   216
   35,673
   36,300
   Other letters of credit
(a)(b)
   3,713
   1,183
   255
   16
   5,167
   4,927
    Total wholesale
   141,621
   158,066
   40,149
   7,319
   347,155
   379,871
 Total lending-related 
   $ 728,615
   $ 164,005
   $ 57,914
   $ 40,561
   $ 991,095
      $ 1,121,378
 Other guarantees
       Securities lending guarantees
(d)
   $ 170,777
   $          Š
   $        Š
   $        Š
   $ 170,777
   $    169,281
 Residual value guarantees 
  670
   1
   1
   Š
   672
   670
 Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
(e)
   20,310
   18,608
   8,759
   39,514
   87,191
   83,835
  Contractual cash obligations
       By remaining maturity at December 31, (in millions)  
     Time deposits  
  $ 211,377
   $   14,479
   $   4,865
   $        938
   $ 231,659
   $ 299,101
Advances from the Federal Home Loan Banks 
  23,597
   2,583
   741
   926
   27,847
   70,187
Long-term debt 
  37,075
   95,915
   42,805
   90,523
   266,318
   270,683
Long-term beneficial interests
(f)
   3,957
   2,515
   407
   3,559
   10,438
   10,561
Operating leases
(g)
   1,652
   3,179
   2,857
   8,264
   15,952
   16,868
Equity investment commitments
(h)
   1,477
   2
   Š
   895
   2,374
   2,424
Contractual purchases and capital expenditures 
  2,005
   862
   419
   488
   3,774
   2,687
Obligations under affinity and co-brand programs 
  1,091
   2,144
   1,604
   2,059
   6,898
   8,138
Other liabilities
(i)
   
906 
  
891   873
   2,690
   5,360
   5,005
Total 
   $ 283,137
   $ 122,570
   $ 54,571
   $ 110,342
   $ 570,620
   $ 685,654
(a) Represents the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $24.6 billion and $26.4 billion for standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, $690 million and $1.1 billion for other letters of credit at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $643 million and 
$789 million for other unfunded commitments to extend credit at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve Board these 
commitments are shown gross of risk participations. 
(b) JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $31.5 billion and $31.0 billion of standby letters of credit, respectively, and $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion of other letters of 
credit at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(c) Includes unissued standby letters-of-credit commitments of $38.4 billion and $39.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(d) Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $173.2 billion and $170.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
Securities lending collateral comprises primarily cash, and securities issued by governments that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
(ﬁOECDﬂ) and U.S. government agencies. 
(e) Represents notional amounts of derivatives qualifying as guarantees. For further discussion of guarantees, see Note 5 on pages 175Œ183 and Note 31 on pages 238Œ
242 of this Annual Report. 
(f) Included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities. 

(g) Includes noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes and for energy-related tolling service agreements. Excludes 
the benefit of noncancelable sublease rentals of $1.8 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(h)  Includes unfunded commitments to third-party private equity funds of $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Also includes un-
funded commitments for other equity investments of $897 million and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These commitments include $1.5 bil-

lion at December 31, 2009, related to investments that are generally fair valued at net asset value as discussed in Note 3 on pages 156---173 of this Annual Report. 
(i) Includes deferred annuity contracts. Excluded contributions to the U.S. pension and other postretirement benefits plans, as these contributions are not reasonably 
estimable at this time. Also excluded are unrecognized tax benefits of $6.6 billion and $5.9 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, as the timing and 
amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time. 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
90
 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 
A strong capital position is essential to the Firm™s business strategy 
and competitive position. The Firm™s capital strategy focuses on 

long-term stability, which enables it to build and invest in market-

leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment. Senior 

management considers the implications on the Firm™s capital 

strength prior to making any decision on future business activities. 

In addition to considering the Firm™s earnings outlook, senior 

management evaluates all sources and uses of capital and makes 

decisions to vary any source or use to preserve the Firm™s capital 

strength.
  The Firm™s capital management objectives are to hold capital suffi-
cient to:  
· Cover all material risks underlying the Firm™s business activities; 
· Maintain ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ status under regulatory requirements; 
· Achieve debt rating targets; 
· Remain flexible to take advantage of future opportunities; and  
· Build and invest in businesses, even in a highly stressed  
environment.   
The quality and composition of capital are key factors in senior 

management™s evaluation of the Firm™s capital adequacy. The Firm 

strongly emphasizes the quality of its capital and, accordingly, holds 

a significant amount of its capital in the form of common equity. 

The Firm uses the following three capital disciplines:   
· Regulatory capital
 Œ The capital required according to standards 
stipulated by U.S. bank regulatory agencies.   
· Economic risk capital
 Œ A bottoms-up assessment of the underly-
ing risks of the Firm™s business activities, utilizing internal risk-
assessment methodologies. 
· Line of business equity
 Œ 
The amount the Firm believes each 
business segment would require if it were operating independ-

ently, which incorporates sufficient capital to address economic 

risk measures, regulatory capital requirements and capital levels 

for similarly rated peers. 
Regulatory capital  
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements
, including 
well-capitalized standards for the consolidated financial holding 
company. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (ﬁOCCﬂ) 

establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Firm™s 

national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase 

Bank USA, N.A. 
In connection with the U.S. Government™s Supervisory Capital As-
sessment Program in 2009, U.S. banking regulators developed a new 

measure of capital, Tier 1 common capital, which is defined as Tier 1 

capital less elements of Tier 1 capital not in the form of common 

equity Œ such as perpetual preferred stock, noncontrolling interests in 

subsidiaries and trust preferred capital debt securities. Tier 1 common 

capital, a non-GAAP financial measure, is used by banking regulators, 

investors and analysts to assess and compare the quality and compo-

sition of the Firm™s capital with the capital of other financial services 

companies. The Firm uses Tier 1 common capital along with the 

other capital measures presented below to assess and monitor its 

capital position. 
The Federal Reserve granted the Firm, for a period of 18 months 
following the Bear Stearns merger, relief up to a certain specified 

amount and subject to certain conditions from the Federal Re-

serve™s risk-based capital and leverage requirements with respect to 

Bear Stearns™ risk-weighted assets and other exposures acquired. 

The OCC granted JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. similar relief from its 

risk-based capital and leverage requirements. The relief would have 

ended, by its terms, on September 30, 2009. Commencing in the 

second quarter of 2009, the Firm no longer adjusted its risk-based 

capital ratios to take into account the relief in the calculation of its 
risk-based capital ratios as of June 30, 2009.
  JPMorgan Chase maintained Tier 1 and Total capital ratios at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, in excess of the well-capitalized 
standards established by the Federal Reserve, as indicated in the 

tables below. In addition, the Firm™s Tier 1 common ratio was 
significantly above the 4% well-capitalized standard that was 
established at the time of the Supervisory Capital Assessment 

Program. For more information, see Note 29 on pages 236Œ237  
of this Annual Report. 
Risk-based capital ratios 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2009
 2008 
Tier 1 capital
(a)
  11.1% 
 10.9% 
Total capital 
 14.8
   14.8 
Tier 1 leverage 
 6.9 
  6.9 
Tier 1 common 
 8.8 
  7.0 
(a) On January 1, 2010, the Firm adopted new accounting standards which required 
the consolidation of the Firm™s credit card securitization trusts, bank-administered asset-
backed commercial paper conduits, and certain mortgage and other consumer securiti-
zation entities. Refer to Note 16 on pages 214Œ222 of this Annual Report for additional 
information about the impact to the Firm of the new guidance. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 91
 A reconciliation of Total stockholders™ equity to Tier 1 common 
capital, Tier 1 capital and Total qualifying capital is presented in the 

table below: 
Risk-based capital components and assets 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2009 
2008 
Tier 1 capital
   
Tier 1 common capital:
   Total stockholders™ equity  $ 165,365
 $   166,884 
Less:  Preferred stock 
  8,152 
 31,939 
Common stockholders™ equity
   157,213
  134,945 
Effect of certain items in accumulated 
other comprehensive income/(loss)  
excluded from Tier 1 common equity 
  75 
 5,084 
Less: Goodwill
(a)
   46,630 
 46,417 
 Fair value DVA on derivative and 
  structured note liabilities related 
   to the Firm™s credit quality 
  912 
 2,358 
 Investments in certain subsidiaries 
  802 
 679 
 Other intangible assets 
  3,660 
 3,667 
Tier 1 common capital 
  105,284 
 86,908 
Preferred stock 
  8,152 
 31,939 
Qualifying hybrid securities and noncon-
trolling interests
(b)
   19,535 
 17,257 
Total Tier 1 capital
   132,971 
 136,104 
Tier 2 capital
   Long-term debt and other instruments 
qualifying as Tier 2 capital 
  28,977 
 31,659 
Qualifying allowance for credit losses 
  15,296 
 17,187 
Adjustment for investments in certain 
subsidiaries and other 
    (171)
  (230) 
Total Tier 2 capital
   44,102 
 48,616 
Total qualifying capital
  $ 177,073 
$    184,720 
Risk-weighted assets
(c)
  $ 1,198,006 
$ 1,244,659 
Total adjusted average assets
(d)
  $ 1,933,767 
$ 1,966,895
(a)
 Goodwill is net of any associated deferred tax liabilities.  
(b)
 Primarily includes trust preferred capital debt securities of certain business trusts. 
(c)
 Includes offŒbalance sheet risk-weighted assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, of 
$367.4 billion and $357.5 billion, respectively. Risk-weighted assets are calculated in 

accordance with U.S. federal regulatory capital standards. 
(d)
 Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the leverage ratio, include 

total average assets adjusted for unrealized gains/(losses) on securities, less de-

ductions for disallowed goodwill and other intangible assets, investments in cer-

tain subsidiaries, and the total adjusted carrying value of nonfinancial equity 

investments that are subject to deductions from Tier 1 capital. 
The Firm™s Tier 1 common capital was $105.3 billion at December 31, 
2009, compared with $86.9 billion at December 31, 2008, an in-

crease of $18.4 billion. The increase was due to net income (adjusted 

for DVA) of $13.2 billion, a $5.8 billion issuance of common stock in 

June 2009, and net issuances of common stock under the Firm™s 

employee stock-based compensation plans of $2.7 billion. The in-

crease was partially offset by $2.1 billion of dividends on preferred 

and common stock and the $1.1 billion one-time noncash adjustment 

to common stockholders™ equity related to the redemption of the 

$25.0 billion Series K Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 

under the Capital Purchase Program. On June 5, 2009, the Firm issued 

$5.8 billion, or 163 million shares, of common stock to satisfy a regula-

tory condition requiring the Firm to demonstrate it could access the 

equity capital markets in order to be eligible to redeem the Series K 

Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury. The proceeds from this 

issuance were used for general corporate purposes.  
The Firm™s Tier 1 capital was $133.0 billion at December 31, 2009, 

compared with $136.1 billion at December 31, 2008, a decrease of 

$3.1 billion. The decrease in Tier 1 capital reflects the redemption of 

the Series K Preferred Stock, partially offset by the increase in Tier 1 

common capital and $2.3 billion net issuances of qualifying trust 

preferred capital debt securities. 
Additional information regarding the Firm™s regulatory capital ratios 
and the related federal regulatory capital requirements and the 

capital ratios of the Firm™s significant banking subsidiaries at  

December 31, 2009 and 2008, are presented in Note 29 on pages 

236Œ237 of this Annual Report. 
Capital Purchase Program 
Pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, on October 28, 2008, 

the Firm issued to the U.S. Treasury, for total proceeds of $25.0 

billion, (i) 2.5 million shares of Series K Preferred Stock, and (ii) a 

Warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 shares of the Firm™s com-

mon stock, at an exercise price of $42.42 per share, subject to 

certain antidilution and other adjustments. On June 17, 2009, the 

Firm redeemed all of the outstanding shares of Series K Preferred 

Stock, and repaid the full $25.0 billion principal amount together 

with accrued dividends. The U.S. Treasury exchanged the Warrant for 

88,401,697 warrants, each of which is a warrant to purchase a share 

of the Firm™s common stock at an exercise price of $42.42 per share 

and, on December 11, 2009, sold the warrants in a secondary public 

offering for $950 million. The Firm did not purchase any of the war-

rants sold by the U.S. Treasury. 
Basel II  
The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the U.S. 

federal banking agencies follow the Capital Accord of the Basel 

Committee on Banking Supervision. In 2004, the Basel Committee 

published a revision to the Accord (ﬁBasel IIﬂ). The goal of the new 

Basel II Framework is to provide more risk-sensitive regulatory 

capital calculations and promote enhanced risk management prac-

tices among large, internationally active banking organizations. 

U.S. banking regulators published a final Basel II rule in December 

2007, which will require JPMorgan Chase to implement Basel II at 

the holding company level, as well as at certain of its key U.S. bank 

subsidiaries. 
Prior to full implementation of the new Basel II Framework, JPMor-
gan Chase will be required to complete a qualification period of 

four consecutive quarters during which it will need to demonstrate 

that it meets the requirements of the new rule to the satisfaction of 

its primary U.S. banking regulators. The U.S. implementation time-

table consists of the qualification period, starting no later than April 

1, 2010, followed by a minimum transition period of three years. 

During the transition period, Basel II risk-based capital require-

ments cannot fall below certain floors based on current (ﬁBasel lﬂ) 

regulations. JPMorgan Chase expects to be in compliance with all 

relevant Basel II rules within the established timelines. In addition, 

the Firm has adopted, and will continue to adopt, based on various 

established timelines, Basel II rules in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions, 

as required.  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
92
 Broker-dealer regulatory capital
 JPMorgan Chase™s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries  
are J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (ﬁJPMorgan Securitiesﬂ) and  

J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. JPMorgan Securities and J.P. Morgan 

Clearing Corp. are each subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securi-

ties Exchange Act of 1934 (ﬁNet Capital Ruleﬂ). JPMorgan  

Securities and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. are also registered as 

futures commission merchants and subject to Rule 1.17 under the 

Commodity Futures Trading Commission (ﬁCFTCﬂ). J.P. Morgan 

Clearing Corp., a subsidiary of JPMorgan Securities, provides 

clearing and settlement services.  
JPMorgan Securities and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. have elected to 
compute their minimum net capital requirements in accordance with 

the ﬁAlternative Net Capital Requirementsﬂ of the Net Capital Rule. 

At December 31, 2009, JPMorgan Securities™ net capital, as defined 

by the Net Capital Rule, of $7.4 billion exceeded the minimum re-

quirement by $6.9 billion.  J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp.™s net capital of 

$5.2 billion exceeded the minimum requirement by $3.6 billion. 
In addition to its minimum net capital requirement, JPMorgan 
Securities is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 

billion and is also required to notify the Securities and Exchange 

Commission (ﬁSECﬂ) in the event that tentative net capital is less 

than $5.0 billion, in accordance with the market and credit risk 

standards of Appendix E of the Net Capital Rule. As of December 

31, 2009, JPMorgan Securities had tentative net capital in excess of 

the minimum and notification requirements. 
Economic risk capital  
JPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relativ
e to the risks 
underlying its business activities, using internal risk-assessment 
methodologies. The Firm measures economic capital primarily 

based on four risk factors: credit, market, operational and private 

equity risk. The growth in economic risk capital from 2008 was 

primarily driven by higher credit risk capital within the consumer 

businesses, due to the full year effect of the Washington Mutual 

transaction and revised performance data in light of the recent 

weak economic environment.  
Economic risk capital
      Yearly Average 
(in billions) 
 2009
 2008
Credit risk 
  $   51.3
  $   
37.8
Market risk 
  15.4
  10.5
Operational risk 
  8.5
  6.3
Private equity risk 
  4.7
  5.3
Economic risk capital 
  79.9
  59.9
Goodwill 
  48.3
  
46.1
Other
(a)
   17.7
  23.1
Total common stockholders™ equity
   $ 145.9
  $ 
129.1
(a)
 Reflects additional capital required, in the Firm™s view, to meet its regulatory 
and debt rating objectives. 
Credit risk capital  
Credit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses 

(IB, CB, TSS and AM) and consumer businesses (RFS and CS). 
Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is de-
fined in terms of unexpected credit losses, both from defaults and 
declines in the portfolio value due to credit deterioration, measured 

over a one-year period at a confidence level consistent with an 

ﬁAAﬂ credit rating standard. Unexpected losses are losses in excess 

of those for which allowance for credit losses are maintained. The 

capital methodology is based on several principal drivers of credit 

risk: exposure at default (or loan-equivalent amount), default 

likelihood, credit spreads, loss severity and portfolio correlation.  
Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is based on product 
and other relevant risk segmentation. Actual segment level default 

and severity experience are used to estimate unexpected losses for 

a one-year horizon at a confidence level consistent with an ﬁAAﬂ 

credit rating standard. Results for certain segments or portfolios are 

derived from available benchmarks and are not model-driven. 
Market risk capital 
The Firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that 

capital should reflect the risk of loss in the value of portfolios and 

financial instruments caused by adverse movements in market vari-

ables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, 

securities prices and commodities prices, taking into account the 

liquidity of the financial instruments. Results from daily VaR, biweekly 

stress-test, issuer credit spread and default risk calculations as well as 

other factors are used to determine appropriate capital levels. Market 

risk capital is allocated to each business segment based on its risk 

contribution. See Market Risk Management on pages 126Œ132 of 

this Annual Report for more information about these market risk 

measures.
Operational risk capital 

Capital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk 
using a risk-based capital allocation methodology which estimates 

operational risk on a bottoms-up basis. The operational risk capital 

model is based on actual losses and potential scenario-based stress 

losses, with adjustments to the capital calculation to reflect 

changes in the quality of the control environment or the use of risk-

transfer products. The Firm believes its model is consistent with the 

new Basel II Framework. See Operational Risk Management on 

page 133 of this Annual Report for more information about opera-

tional risk. 
Private equity risk capital 
Capital is allocated to privately- and publicly- held securities, third-

party fund investments, and commitments in the private equity port-

folio to cover the potential loss associated with a decline in equity 

markets and related asset devaluations. In addition to negative 

market fluctuations, potential losses in private equity investment 

portfolios can be magnified by liquidity risk. The capital allocation for 

the private equity portfolio is based on measurement of the loss 

experience suffered by the Firm and other market participants over a 

prolonged period of adverse equity market conditions. 
Line of business equity 
 The Firm™s framework for allocating capital is based
 on the following 
objectives:  
· Integrate firmwide capital management activities with capital 

management activities within each of the lines of business 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 93
 · Measure performance consistently across all lines of business  
· Provide comparability with peer firms for each of the lines of 
business  
Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes 

the business would require if it were operating independently, incor-

porating sufficient capital to address economic risk measures, regula-

tory capital requirements and capital levels for similarly rated peers. 

Capital is also allocated to each line of business for, among other 

things, goodwill and other intangibles associated with acquisitions 

effected by the line of business. Return on common equity is meas-

ured and internal targets for expected returns are established as a key 

measure of a business segment™s performance.  
Relative to 2008, line of business equity remained largely un-
changed during 2009.   
Line of business equity
   
December 31, (in billions) 
 2009
  
2008
Investment Bank 
  $   33.0
   $   
33.0
Retail Financial Services 
   25.0
   
25.0
Card Services 
   15.0
   
15.0
Commercial Banking 
   8.0
   
8.0
Treasury & Securities Services 
   5.0
   
4.5
Asset Management 
   7.0
   
7.0
Corporate/Private Equity 
   64.2
   
42.4
Total common stockholders™ equity
   $ 157.2
   $ 
134.9
 Line of business equity
   Yearly Average 
(in billions) 
 2009
  
2008
Investment Bank 
 $    33.0
   $   
26.1
Retail Financial Services 
   25.0
   
19.0
Card Services 
   15.0
   
14.3
Commercial Banking 
   8.0
   
7.3
Treasury & Securities Services 
   5.0
   
3.8
Asset Management 
   7.0
   
5.6
Corporate/Private Equity 
   52.9
   
53.0
Total common stockholders™ equity
   $ 145.9
   $ 
129.1
In 2010, the Firm will enhance its line of business equity framework 
to better align equity assigned to each line of business with the 

anticipated changes in the business, as well as changes in the com-

petitive and regulatory landscape. The lines of business will be capi-

talized based on the Tier 1 common standard, rather than the Tier 1 

Capital standard.  
Capital actions 
Dividends 
On February 23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the Firm™s 
quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 per share, 

effective with the dividend paid on April 30, 2009, to shareholders 

of record on April 6, 2009. The action enabled the Firm to retain 

approximately $5 billion in common equity during 2009, and was 

taken to ensure the Firm had sufficient capital strength in the event 

the very weak economic conditions that existed at the beginning of 

the year further deteriorated.  
For information regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 23 and 

Note 28 on pages 230Œ231 and 236, respectively, of this Annual 

Report. 
The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based 
on reported net income. 
Common dividend payout ratio
    
Year ended December 31, 
2009
 2008 2007
Common dividend payout ratio 
  9%
 114%     34%
 Issuance 

On June 5, 2009, the Firm issued $5.8 billion, or 163 million 

shares, of common stock at $35.25 per share. On September 30, 

2008, the Firm issued $11.5 billion, or 284 million shares, of com-

mon stock at $40.50 per share. The proceeds from these issuances 

were used for general corporate purposes. For additional informa-

tion regarding common stock, see Note 24 on pages 231Œ232 of 

this Annual Report. 
Stock repurchases 
In April 2007, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase 

program that authorizes the repurchase of up to $10.0 billion of the 

Firm™s common shares. In connection with the U.S. Treasury™s sale of 

the warrants it received as part of the Capital Purchase Program, the 

Board of Directors amended the Firm™s securities repurchase program 

to authorize the repurchase of warrants for its stock. During the years 

ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Firm did not repurchase 

any shares of its common stock. As of December 31, 2009, $6.2 

billion of authorized repurchase capacity remained under the repur-

chase program with respect to repurchases of common stock, and all 

the authorized repurchase capacity remained with respect to the 

warrants.  
The authorization to repurchase common stock and warrants will 
be utilized at management™s discretion, and the timing of purchases 

and the exact number of shares and warrants purchased is subject 

to various factors, including market conditions; legal considerations 

affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm™s 

capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles); 

internal capital generation; and alternative potential investment 

opportunities. The repurchase program does not include specific 

price targets or timetables, may be executed through open market 

purchases or privately negotiated transactions, or utilizing Rule 

10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any time. A Rule 

10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity 

during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing com-

mon stock Œ for example, during internal trading ﬁblack-out peri-

ods.ﬂ All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made 

according to a predefined plan that is established when the Firm is 

not aware of material nonpublic information.
  For additional information regarding repurchases of 
the Firm™s equity 
securities, see Part II, Item 5, Market for registrant™s common equity, 
related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities, 

on page 18 of JPMorgan Chase™s 2009 Form 10-K.

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
94
 RISK MANAGEMENT 
Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase™s business activities and 
the Firm™s overall risk tolerance is established in the context of the 

Firm™s earnings power, capital, and diversified business model. The 

Firm™s risk management framework and governance structure are 

intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoing manage-

ment of the major risks inherent in its business activities. It is also 

intended to create a culture of risk awareness and personal responsi-

bility throughout the Firm. The Firm™s ability to properly identify, 

measure, monitor and report risk is critical to both its soundness and 

profitability.
· Risk identification: The Firm™s exposure to risk through its daily 
business dealings, including lending, trading and capital markets 

activities, is identified and aggregated through the Firm™s risk 

management infrastructure. In addition, individuals who manage 

risk positions, particularly those that are complex, are responsible 

for identifying and estimating potential losses that could arise from 

specific or unusual events that may not be captured in other mod-

els, and those risks are communicated to senior management. 
· Risk measurement: The Firm measures risk using a variety of 

methodologies, including calculating probable loss, unexpected 

loss and value-at-risk, and by conducting stress tests and making 

comparisons to external benchmarks. Measurement models and 

related assumptions are routinely reviewed with the goal of en-

suring that the Firm™s risk estimates are reasonable and reflect 

underlying positions.  
· Risk monitoring/control: The Firm™s risk management policies 

and procedures incorporate risk mitigation strategies and include 

approval limits by customer, product, industry, country and busi-

ness. These limits are monitored on a daily, weekly and monthly 

basis, as appropriate.  
· Risk reporting: Executed on both a line of business and a con-

solidated basis. This information is reported to management on 

a daily, weekly and monthly basis, as appropriate. There are 

eight major risk types identified in the business activities of the 

Firm: liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, pri-

vate equity risk, operational risk, legal and fiduciary risk, and 

reputation risk.  
Risk governance 
 The Firm™s risk governance structure starts with each line of business 

being responsible for managing its own risks. Each line of business 

works closely with Risk Management through its own risk committee 

and its own chief risk officer to manage its risk. Each line of business 

risk committee is responsible for decisions regarding the business™ risk 

strategy, policies and controls. The Firm™s Chief Risk Officer is a 

member of the line of business risk committees.  
Overlaying the line of business risk management are four corporate 
functions with risk managementŒrelated responsibilities, including 

the Chief Investment Office, Corporate Treasury, Legal and Compli-

ance and Risk Management.  
Risk Management is headed by the Firm™s Chief Risk Officer, who is 
a member of the Firm™s Operating Committee and who reports to 

the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, primarily 

through the Board™s Risk Policy Committee. Risk Management is 

responsible for providing an independent firmwide function of risk 

management and controls. Within the Firm™s Risk Management 

function are units responsible for credit risk, market risk, operational 

risk and private equity risk, as well as risk reporting, risk policy and 

risk technology and operations. Risk technology and operations is 

responsible for building the information technology infrastructure 

used to monitor and manage risk.  
The Chief Investment Office and Corporate Treasury are responsi-
ble for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm™s 

liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange risk.  
Legal and Compliance has oversight for legal and fiduciary risk.  

In addition to the risk committees of the lines of business and the 
above-referenced risk management functions, the Firm also has an 

Investment Committee, an Asset-Liability Committee and three 

other risk-related committees Œ the Risk Working Group, the Global 

Counterparty Committee and the Markets Committee. All of these 

committees are accountable to the Operating Committee which is 

involved in setting the Firm™s overall risk appetite. The membership 

of these committees are composed of senior management of the 

Firm, including representatives of lines of business, Risk Manage-

ment, Finance and other senior executives. The committees meet 

frequently to discuss a broad range of topics including, for example, 

current market conditions and other external events, risk exposures, 

and risk concentrations to ensure that the impact of risk factors are 

considered broadly across the Firm™s businesses. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 95
  The Asset-Liability Committee monitors the Firm™s overall interest 
rate risk and liquidity risk. ALCO is responsible for reviewing and 

approving the Firm™s liquidity policy and contingency funding plan. 

ALCO also reviews the Firm™s funds transfer pricing policy (through 

which lines of business ﬁtransferﬂ interest rate and foreign ex-

change risk to Corporate Treasury in the Corporate/Private Equity 

segment), earnings at risk, overall interest rate position, funding 

requirements and strategy, and the Firm™s securitization programs 

(and any required liquidity support by the Firm of such programs). 
The Investment Committee, chaired by the Firm™s Chief Financial 
Officer, oversees global merger and acquisition activities under-

taken by JPMorgan Chase for its own account that fall outside the 

scope of the Firm™s private equity and other principal finance 

activities.  
The Risk Working Group is chaired by the Firm™s Chief Risk Officer 
and meets monthly to review issues that cross lines of business 

such as risk policy, risk methodology, Basel II and other regulatory 

issues, and such other topics referred to it by line-of-business risk 

committees or the Firm™s Chief Risk Officer. 
The Markets Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, meets 
weekly to review, monitor and discuss significant risk matters, 

which may include credit, market and operational risk issues; 

market moving events; large transactions; hedging strategies; 

reputation risk; conflicts of interest; and other issues.
 The Global Counterparty Committee designates to the Chief Risk 
Officer of the Firm certain counterparties with which the Firm may 

trade at exposure levels above portfolio-established thresholds 

when deemed appropriate to support the Firm™s trading activities. 

The Committee meets quarterly to review total exposures with 

these counterparties, with particular focus on counterparty trading 

exposures, and to direct changes in exposure levels as needed.
 The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of risk management, 

principally through the Board™s Risk Policy Committee and Audit 

Committee. The Risk Policy Committee oversees senior manage-

ment risk-related responsibilities, including reviewing management 

policies and performance against these policies and related bench-

marks. The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of guide-

lines and policies that govern the process by which risk assessment 

and management is undertaken. In addition, the Audit Committee 

reviews with management the system of internal controls and 

financial reporting that is relied upon to provide reasonable assur-

ance of compliance with the Firm™s operational risk management 

processes. 
        Operating Committee   
     
       
    
    
     
       
    
    
     
           Asset-Liability 
Committee (ALCO) 
  Investment 
Committee 
  Risk Working  
Group (RWG) 
  Markets 
Committee 
  Global Counterparty 
Committee 
        
    
    
     
       
    
    
     
                     
          Investment 
Bank Risk 
Committee 
 RFS 
Risk 
Committee 
 Card  
Services 
Risk 
Committee 
 Commercial 
Banking 
Risk 
Committee 
 TSS 
Risk 
Committee 
 Asset 
Management 
Risk 
Committee 
 CIO 
Risk 
Committee 
  Corporate Treasury and Chief Investment Office (Liquidity, Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk) 
Risk Management (Market, Credit, Operational and Private Equity Risk) 
Legal and Compliance (Legal and Fiduciary Risk)
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
96
 LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT 
The ability to maintain a sufficient level of liquidity is crucial to finan-
cial services companies, particularly their ability to maintain appropri-

ate levels of liquidity during periods of adverse conditions. JPMorgan 

Chase™s primary sources of liquidity include a diversified deposit base 

and access to the long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt 

securities) and equity capital markets. The Firm™s funding strategy is 

intended to ensure liquidity and diversity of funding sources to meet 

actual and contingent liabilities during both normal and stress peri-

ods. Consistent with this strategy, JPMorgan Chase maintains large 

pools of highly liquid unencumbered assets and significant sources of 

secured funding, and monitors its capacity in the wholesale funding 

markets across various geographic regions and in various currencies. 

The Firm also maintains access to secured funding capacity through 

overnight borrowings from various central banks. Throughout the 

recent financial crisis, the Firm successfully raised both secured and 

unsecured funding. 
Governance 
The Firm™s governance process is designed to ensure that its liquid-

ity position remains strong. The Asset-Liability Committee reviews 

and approves the Firm™s liquidity policy and contingency funding 

plan. Corporate Treasury formulates and is responsible for execut-

ing the Firm™s liquidity policy and contingency funding plan as well 

as measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm™s 

liquidity risk profile. JPMorgan Chase uses a centralized approach for 

liquidity risk management to maximize liquidity access, minimize 

funding costs and permit identification and coordination of global 

liquidity risk. This approach involves frequent communication with the 

business segments, disciplined management of liquidity at the parent 

holding company, comprehensive market-based pricing of all 

assets and liabilities, continuous balance sheet management, 

frequent stress testing of liquidity sources, and frequent reporting 

to and communication with senior management and the Board of 

Directors regarding the Firm™s liquidity position.  
Liquidity monitoring 
The Firm monitors liquidity trends, tracks historical and prospec-

tive onŒ and offŒbalance sheet liquidity obligations, identifies 

and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals to 

permit early detection of liquidity issues, and manages contin-

gency planning (including identification and testing of various 

company-specific and market-driven stress scenarios). Various 

tools, which together contribute to an overall firmwide liquidity 

perspective, are used to monitor and manage liquidity. Among 

others, these include: (i) analysis of the timing of liquidity sources 

versus liquidity uses (i.e., funding gaps) over periods ranging from 

overnight to one year; (ii) management of debt and capital issu-

ances to ensure that the illiquid portion of the balance sheet can 

be funded by equity, long-term debt (including trust preferred 

capital debt securities) and deposits the Firm believes to be 

stable; and (iii) assessment of the Firm™s capacity to raise incre-

mental unsecured and secured funding. 
Liquidity of the parent holding company and its nonbank subsidi-

aries is monitored independently as well as in conjunction with 

the liquidity of the Firm™s bank subsidiaries. At the parent holding 

company level, long-term funding is managed to ensure that the 

parent holding company has, at a minimum, sufficient liquidity to 

cover its obligations and those of its nonbank subsidiaries within 

the next 12 months. For bank subsidiaries, the focus of liquidity 

risk management is on maintenance of unsecured and secured 

funding capacity sufficient to meet on--- and off---balance sheet 

obligations. 
A component of liquidity management is the Firm™s contingency 
funding plan. The goal of the plan is to ensure appropriate liquid-

ity during normal and stress periods. The plan considers various 

temporary and long-term stress scenarios where access to whole-

sale unsecured funding is severely limited or nonexistent, taking 

into account both on--- and off---balance sheet exposures, and 

separately evaluates access to funding sources by the parent 

holding company and the Firm™s bank subsidiaries.
 Recent events  

The extraordinary levels of volatility exhibited in global markets 

during the second half of 2008 began to subside in 2009. Market 

participants were able to regain access to the debt, equity and 

consumer loan securitization markets as spreads tightened and 

liquidity returned to the markets.  
The Firm believes its liquidity position is strong, based on its liquidity 
metrics as of December 31, 2009. The Firm believes that its unse-

cured and secured funding capacity is sufficient to meet its onŒ and 

offŒbalance sheet obligations. JPMorgan Chase™s long-dated funding, 

including core liabilities, exceeded illiquid assets. 
On March 30, 2009, the Federal Reserve announced that, effec-
tive April 27, 2009, it would reduce the amount it lent against 

certain loans pledged as collateral to the Federal Reserve Banks 

for discount window or payment-system risk purposes, in order to 

reflect recent trends in the values of those types of collateral. On 

October 19, 2009, the Federal Reserve further reduced the 

amount it lent against such collateral. These changes by the 

Federal Reserve did not have a material impact on the Firm™s 

aggregate funding capacity. 
The Firm participated in the FDIC™s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee 
Program (the "TLG Program"), which was implemented in late 

2008 as a temporary measure to help restore confidence in the 

financial system. This program is comprised of two components: 

the Debt Guarantee Program that provided an FDIC guarantee for 

certain senior unsecured debt issued through October 31, 2009, 

and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (the "TAG 

Program") that provides unlimited insurance on certain noninter-

est-bearing transaction accounts. The expiration date of the TAG 

Program was extended by six months, from December 31, 2009, 

to June 30, 2010, to provide continued support to those institu-

tions most affected by the recent financial crisis and to phase out 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 97
 the program in an orderly manner. On October 22, 2009, the Firm 
notified the FDIC that, as of January 1, 2010, it would no longer 

participate in the TAG Program. As a result of the Firm™s decision 

to opt out of the program, after December 31, 2009, funds held 

in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts will no longer be 

guaranteed in full, but will be insured up to $250,000 under the 

FDIC™s general deposit rules. The insurance amount of $250,000 

per depositor is in effect through December 31, 2013. On January 

1, 2014, the insurance amount will return to $100,000 per de-

positor for all account categories except Individual Retirement 

Accounts (ﬁIRAsﬂ) and certain other retirement accounts, which 

will remain at $250,000 per depositor. 
Funding 
Sources of funds  
The deposits held by the RFS, CB, TSS and AM lines of business are 
generally stable sources of funding for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 

As of December 31, 2009, total deposits for the Firm were $938.4 

billion, compared with $1.0 trillion at December 31, 2008. A signifi-

cant portion of the Firm™s deposits are retail deposits (38% at 

December 31, 2009), which are less sensitive to interest rate 

changes or market volatility and therefore are considered more 

stable than market-based (i.e., wholesale) liability balances. In 

addition, through the normal course of business, the Firm benefits 

from substantial liability balances originated by RFS, CB, TSS and 

AM. These franchise-generated liability balances include deposits, 

as well as deposits that are swept to onŒbalance sheet liabilities 

(e.g., commercial paper, federal funds purchased, and securities 

loaned or sold under repurchase agreements), a significant portion 

of which are considered to be stable and consistent sources of 

funding due to the nature of the businesses from which they are 

generated. For further discussions of deposit and liability balance 

trends, see the discussion of the results for the Firm™s business 

segments and the Balance sheet analysis on pages 63Œ81 and 84Œ

86, respectively, of this Annual Report. 
Additional sources of funding include a variety of unsecured short- 
and long-term instruments, including federal funds purchased, 

certificates of deposit, time deposits, bank notes, commercial paper, 

long-term debt, trust preferred capital debt securities, preferred 

stock and common stock. Secured sources of funding include 

securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, asset-

backed securitizations, and borrowings from the Chicago, Pitts-

burgh and San Francisco Federal Home Loan Banks. The Firm also 

borrows from the Federal Reserve (including discount-window 

borrowings, the Primary Dealer Credit Facility and the Term Auction 

Facility); however, the Firm does not view such borrowings from the 

Federal Reserve as a primary means of funding. 
Issuance   
Funding markets are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve an 

appropriate global balance of unsecured and secured funding at 

favorable rates. Generating funding from a broad range of 

sources in a variety of geographic locations enhances financial 

flexibility and limits dependence on any one source.
 During 2009 and 2008, the Firm issued $19.7 billion 
and $20.8 
billion, respectively, of FDIC-guaranteed long-term debt under the 

TLG Program, which became effective in October 2008. In 2009 the 

Firm also issued non-FDIC guaranteed debt of $16.1 billion, includ-

ing $11.0 billion of senior notes and $2.5 billion of trust preferred 

capital debt securities, in the U.S. market, and $2.6 billion of senior 

notes in the European markets. In 2008 the Firm issued non-FDIC 

guaranteed debt of $23.6 billion, including $12.2 billion of senior 

notes and $1.8 billion of trust preferred capital debt securities in the 

U.S. market and $9.6 billion of senior notes in non-U.S. markets. 

Issuing non-FDIC guaranteed debt in the capital markets in 2009 

was a prerequisite to redeeming the $25.0 billion of Series K Pre-

ferred Stock. In addition, during 2009 and 2008, JPMorgan Chase 

issued $15.5 billion and $28.0 billion, respectively, of IB structured 

notes that are included within long-term debt. During 2009 and 

2008, $55.7 billion and $62.7 billion, respectively, of long-term 

debt (including trust preferred capital debt securities) matured or 

was redeemed, including $27.2 billion and $35.8 billion, respec-

tively, of IB structured notes; the maturities or redemptions in 2009 

offset the issuances during the period. During 2009 and 2008, the 

Firm also securitized $26.5 billion and $21.4 billion, respectively, of 

credit card loans. 
 Replacement capital covenants  

In connection with the issuance of certain of its trust preferred 
capital debt securities and its noncumulative perpetual preferred 

stock, the Firm has entered into Replacement Capital Covenants 

(ﬁRCCsﬂ). These RCCs grant certain rights to the holders of ﬁcov-

ered debt,ﬂ as defined in the RCCs, that prohibit the repayment, 

redemption or purchase of such trust preferred capital debt securi-

ties and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock except, with 

limited exceptions, to the extent that JPMorgan Chase has received, 

in each such case, specified amounts of proceeds from the sale of 

certain qualifying securities. Currently, the Firm™s covered debt is its 

5.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures, Series 

O, due in 2035. For more information regarding these covenants, 

reference is made to the respective RCCs (including any supple-

ments thereto) entered into by the Firm in relation to such trust 

preferred capital debt securities and noncumulative perpetual 

preferred stock, which are available in filings made by the Firm 

with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
Cash flows  
For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, cash 

and due from banks decreased $689 million, $13.2 billion and 

$268 million, respectively. The following discussion highlights the 

major activities and transactions that affected JPMorgan Chase™s 

cash flows during 2009, 2008 and 2007.  
Cash flows from operating activities 
JPMorgan Chase™s operating assets and liabilities support the 

Firm™s capital markets and lending activities, including the origi-

nation or purchase of loans initially designated as held-for-sale. 

Operating assets and liabilities can vary significantly in the normal 

course of business due to the amount and timing of cash flows, 

which are affected by client-driven activities, market conditions 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
98
 and trading strategies. Management believes cash flows from 
operations, available cash balances and the Firm™s ability to 

generate cash through short- and long-term borrowings are 

sufficient to fund the Firm™s operating liquidity needs. 
For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, net cash pro-
vided by operating activities was $121.9 billion and $23.1 billion, 

respectively, while for the year ended December 31, 2007, net cash 

used in operating activities was $110.6 billion. In 2009, the net 

decline in trading assets and liabilities was affected by balance 

sheet management activities and the impact of the challenging 

capital markets environment that existed at December 31, 2008, 

and continued into the first half of 2009. In 2009 and 2008, net 

cash generated from operating activities was higher than net in-

come, largely as a result of adjustments for non-cash items such as 

the provision for credit losses. In addition, for 2009 and 2008 

proceeds from sales, securitizations and paydowns of loans origi-

nated or purchased with an initial intent to sell were higher than 

cash used to acquire such loans, but the cash flows from these loan 

activities remained at reduced levels as a result of the lower activity 

in these markets since the second half of 2007.  
For the year ended December 31, 2007, the net cash used in trad-
ing activities reflected a more active capital markets environment, 

largely from client-driven market-making activities. Also during 

2007, cash used to originate or purchase loans held-for-sale was 

higher than proceeds from sales, securitizations and paydowns of 

such loans, although these activities were affected by a significant 

deterioration in liquidity in the second half of 2007.  
Cash flows from investing activities 
The Firm™s investing activities predominantly include originating 

loans to be held for investment, the AFS securities portfolio and 

other short-term interest-earning assets. For the year ended 

December 31, 2009, net cash of $29.4 billion was provided by 

investing activities, primarily from: a decrease in deposits with 

banks reflecting lower demand for
 inter-bank lending and lower 
deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank relative to the elevated 

levels at the end of 2008; a net decrease in the loan portfolio 

across most businesses, driven by continued lower customer 

demand and loan sales in the wholesale businesses, lower charge 

volume on credit cards, slightly higher credit card securitizations, 

and paydowns; and the maturity of all asset-backed commercial 

paper issued by money market mutual funds in connection with 

the AML facility of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Largely 

offsetting these cash proceeds were net purchases of AFS securi-

ties associated with the Firm™s management of interest rate risk 

and investment of cash resulting from an excess funding position.  
For the year ended December 31, 2008, net cash of $283.7 
billion was used in investing activities, primarily for: increased 

deposits with banks as the result of the availability of excess cash 

for short-term investment opportunities through interbank lend-

ing, and reserve balances held by the Federal Reserve (which 

became an investing activity in 2008, reflecting a policy change of 

the Federal Reserve to pay interest to depository institutions on 
reserve balances); net purchases of investment securities in the 

AFS portfolio to manage the Firm™s exposure to interest rate 

movements; net additions to the wholesale loan portfolio from 

organic growth in CB; additions to the consumer prime mortgage 

portfolio as a result of the decision to retain, rather than sell, new 

originations of nonconforming prime mortgage loans; an increase 

in securities purchased under resale agreements reflecting growth 

in demand from clients for liquidity; and net purchases of asset-

backed commercial paper from money market mutual funds in 

connection with the AML facility of the Federal Reserve Bank of 

Boston. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were proceeds from 

loan sales and securitization activities as well as net cash received 

from acquisitions and the sale of an investment. Additionally, in 

June 2008, in connection with the Bear Stearns merger, the Firm 

sold assets acquired from Bear Stearns to the FRBNY and received 

cash proceeds of $28.85 billion.  
For the year ended December 31,2007, net cash of $74.2 billion 
was used in investing activities, primarily for: funding purchases in 

the AFS securities portfolio to manage the Firm™s exposure to 

interest rate movements; net additions to the wholesale retained 

loan portfolios in IB, CB and AM, mainly as a result of business 

growth; a net increase in the consumer retained loan portfolio, 

primarily reflecting growth in RFS in home equity loans and net 

additions to the RFS™s subprime mortgage loans portfolio (which 

was affected by management™s decision in the third quarter to 

retain (rather than sell) new subprime mortgages); growth in prime 

mortgage loans originated by RFS and AM that were not eligible to 

be sold to U.S. government agencies or U.S. government-sponsored 

enterprises; and increases in securities purchased under resale 

agreements as a result of a higher level of cash that was available 

for short-term investment opportunities in connection with the 

Firm™s efforts to build liquidity. These net uses of cash were partially 

offset by cash proceeds received from sales and maturities of AFS 

securities and from credit card, residential mortgage, student and 

wholesale loan sales and securitization activities. 
Cash flows from financing activities 
 The Firm™s financing activities primarily reflect cash flows related to 

raising customer deposits, and issuing long-term debt (including 

trust preferred capital debt securities) as well as preferred and 

common stock. In 2009, net cash used in financing activities was 

$152.2 billion; this reflected a decline in wholesale deposits, pre-

dominantly in TSS, driven by the continued normalization of whole-

sale deposit levels resulting from the mitigation of credit concerns, 

compared with the heightened market volatility and credit concerns 

in the latter part of 2008; a decline in other borrowings, due to the 

absence of borrowings from the Federal Reserve under the Term 

Auction Facility program; net repayments of advances from Federal 

Home Loan Banks and the maturity of the nonrecourse advances 

under the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston AML Facility; the June 

17, 2009, repayment in full of the $25.0 billion principal amount of 

Series K Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury; and the pay-

ment of cash dividends on common and preferred stock. Cash was 

also used for the net repayment of long-term debt and trust pre-
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 99
 ferred capital debt securities, as issuances of FDIC-guaranteed debt 
and non-FDIC guaranteed debt in both the U.S. and European 

markets were more than offset by redemptions. Cash proceeds 

resulted from an increase in securities loaned or sold under repur-

chase agreements, partly attributable to favorable pricing and to 

financing the increased size of the Firm™s AFS securities portfolio; 

and the issuance of $5.8 billion of common stock. There were no 

repurchases in the open market of common stock or the warrants 

during 2009. 
In 2008, net cash provided by financing activities was $247.8 
billion due to: growth in wholesale deposits, in particular, inter-

est- and noninterest-bearing deposits in TSS (driven by both new 

and existing clients, and due to the deposit inflows related to the 

heightened volatility and credit concerns affecting the global 

markets that began in the third quarter of 2008), as well as 

increases in AM and CB (due to organic growth); proceeds of 

$25.0 billion from the issuance of preferred stock and the War-

rant to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program; 

additional issuances of common stock and preferred stock used 

for general corporate purposes; an increase in other borrowings 

due to nonrecourse secured advances under the Federal Reserve 

Bank of Boston AML Facility to fund the purchase of asset-backed 

commercial paper from money market mutual funds; increases in 

federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 

repurchase agreements in connection with higher client demand 

for liquidity and to finance growth in the Firm™s AFS securities 

portfolio; and a net increase in long-term debt due to a combina-

tion of non-FDIC guaranteed debt and trust preferred capital debt 

securities issued prior to December 4, 2008, and the issuance of 

$20.8 billion of FDIC-guaranteed long-term debt issued during 

the fourth quarter of 2008. The fourth-quarter FDIC-guaranteed 

debt issuance was offset partially by maturities of non-FDIC 

guaranteed long-term debt during the same period. The increase 

in long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt securities) 

was used primarily to fund certain illiquid assets held by the 
parent holding company and to build liquidity. Cash was also 

used to pay dividends on common and preferred stock. The Firm 

did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during 2008. 
In 2007, net cash provided by financing activities was $184.1 
billion due to a net increase in wholesale deposits from growth in 

business volumes, in particular, interest-bearing deposits at TSS, 

AM and CB; net issuances of long-term debt (including trust 

preferred capital debt securities) primarily to fund certain illiquid 

assets held by the parent holding company and build liquidity, 

and by IB from client-driven structured notes transactions; and 

growth in commercial paper issuances and other borrowed funds 

due to growth in the volume of liability balances in sweep ac-

counts in TSS and CB, and to fund trading positions and to fur-

ther build liquidity. Cash was used to repurchase common stock 

and pay dividends on common stock. 
Credit ratings 
The cost and availability of financing are influenced by credit rat-

ings. Reductions in these ratings could have an adverse effect on 

the Firm™s access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, 

trigger additional collateral or funding requirements and decrease 

the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to the 

Firm. Additionally, the Firm™s funding requirements for VIEs and 

other third-party commitments may be adversely affected. For 

additional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade 

on the funding requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives and collat-

eral agreements, see Special-purpose entities on pages 86Œ87 and 

Ratings profile of derivative receivables marked to market 

(ﬁMTMﬂ), and Note 5 on page 111 and pages 175Œ183, respec-

tively, of this Annual Report. 
Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable 
and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong credit 

quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources, 

and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures. 
 The credit ratings of the parent holding company and each of the Firm™s significant banking subsidiaries as of January 15, 2010, were as follows. 
    Short-term debt 
   Senior long-term debt 
  Moody™s S&P Fitch Moody™s S&P Fitch 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
P-1   A-1 F1+ 
Aa3  A+ AA- 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 
P-1   A-1+ F1+ 
Aa1  AA- AA- 
Chase Bank USA, N.A. 
P-1   A-1+ F1+ 
Aa1  AA- AA- 
Ratings actions affecting the Firm 
 On March 4, 2009, Moody™s revised the outlook on the Firm to 
negative from stable. This action was the result of Moody™s view 
that the Firm™s ability to generate capital would be adversely af-
fected by higher credit costs due to the global recession. The rating 

action by Moody™s in the first quarter of 2009 did not have a mate-

rial impact on the cost or availability of the Firm™s funding. At 
December 31, 2009, Moody™s outlook remained negative. 
Ratings from S&P and Fitch on JPMorgan Chase and its principal 
bank subsidiaries remained unchanged at December 31, 2009, 

from December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, S&P™s outlook 

remained negative, while Fitch™s outlook remained stable.  
Following the Firm™s earnings release on January 15, 2010, S&P 

and Moody™s announced that their ratings on the Firm remained 
unchanged. 
If the Firm™s senior long-term debt ratings were downgraded by one 
additional notch, the Firm believes the incremental cost of funds or 
loss of funding would be manageable, within the context of current 
market conditions and the Firm™s liquidity resources. JPMorgan 

Chase™s unsecured debt does not contain requirements that would 

call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in the 

structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future 

borrowings or require additional collateral, based on unfavorable 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
100
 changes in the Firm™s credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, or 
stock price.
 On February 24, 2009, S&P lowered the ratings on the trust preferred 
capital debt securities and other hybrid securities of 45 U.S. financial 

institutions, including those of JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Firm™s 

ratings on trust preferred capital debt and noncumulative perpetual 
preferred securities were lowered from A- to BBB+. This action was 
the result of S&P™s general view that there is an increased likelihood 

of issuers suspending interest and dividend payments in the current 

environment. This action by S&P did not have a material impact on 
the cost or availability of the Firm™s funding. 
On December 22, 2009, Moody™s lowered the ratings on certain of 
the Firm™s hybrid securities. The downgrades were consistent with 

Moody™s revised guidelines for rating hybrid securities and subordi-
nated debt. The ratings of junior subordinated debt securities with 
cumulative deferral features were lowered to A2 from A1, while 

those of cumulative preferred securities were downgraded to A3 

from A2, and ratings for non-cumulative preferred securities were 
lowered to Baa1 from A2. 
On January 29, 2010, Fitch downgraded 592 hybrid capital instru-
ments issued by banks and other non-bank financial institutions, 

including those issued by the Firm. This action was in line with 
Fitch™s revised hybrid ratings methodology. The Firm™s trust pre-
ferred debt and hybrid preferred securities were downgraded by 
one notch to A. 
Ratings actions affecting Firm-sponsored securitization trusts 
In 2009, in light of increasing levels of losses in the Firm-sponsored 
securitization trusts due to the then worsening economic environ-

ment, S&P, Moody™s and Fitch took various ratings actions with 

respect to the securities issued by the Firm™s credit card securitiza-
tion trusts, including the Chase Issuance Trust, Chase Credit Card 
Master Trust, Washington Mutual Master Note Trust and SCORE 

Credit Card Trust, including placing the ratings of certain securities 

of such Trusts on negative credit watch or review for possible 

downgrade, and, in a few circumstances, downgrading the ratings 
of some of the securities. 
On May 12, 2009, the Firm took certain actions to increase the 
credit enhancement underlying the credit card asset-backed securi-
ties of the Chase Issuance Trust. As a result of these actions, the 
ratings of all asset-backed credit card securities of the Chase Issu-
ance Trust were affirmed by the credit rating agencies, except for a 

negative rating outlook by Fitch which remains, as of December 31, 
2009, on the subordinated securities of the Chase Issuance Trust. 
On May 19, 2009, the Firm removed from the Washington Mutual 
Master Note Trust all remaining credit card receivables that had 

been originated by Washington Mutual. As a result of this action, 
the ratings of all asset-backed credit card securities of the Washing-
ton Mutual Master Note Trust were raised or affirmed by the credit 

rating agencies, with the exception that the senior securities of the 

Washington Mutual Master Note Trust were downgraded by S&P 

on December 23, 2009. S&P™s action was the result of their consid-

eration of a linkage between the ratings of the securities of Wash-
ington Mutual Master Note Trust and the Firm™s own ratings as a 
result of the consolidation onto the Firm™s Consolidated Balance 

Sheet of the assets and liabilities of the Washington Mutual Master 

Note Trust following the Firm™s actions on May 19, 2009 (please 
refer to page 208 under Note 15 of this Annual Report). 
The Firm did not take any actions to increase the credit enhance-
ment underlying securitizations issued by the Chase Credit Card 

Master Trust and the SCORE Credit Card Trust during 2009. 
Certain mezzanine securities and subordinated securities of the 
Chase Credit Card Master Trust were downgraded by S&P and 

Moody™s on August 6, 2009, and July 10, 2009, respectively. The 

senior and subordinated securities of the SCORE Credit Card Trust 

were placed on review for possible downgrade by Moody™s on 
January 20, 2010.  
The Firm believes the ratings actions described above did not have 
a material impact on the Firm™s liquidity and ability to access the 

asset-backed securitization market. 
With the exception of the Washington Mutual Master Note Trust as 
described above, the ratings on the Firm™s asset-backed securities 
programs are currently independent of the Firm™s own ratings. 

However, no assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies 

will not in the future consider there being a linkage between the 

ratings of the Firm™s asset-backed securities programs and the 

Firm™s own ratings as a result of accounting guidance for QSPEs 
and VIEs that became effective January 1, 2010. For a further 
discussion of the new FASB guidance, see ﬁAccounting and report-

ing developmentsﬂ and Note 16 on pages 140Œ142 and 214Œ222, 
respectively, of this Annual Report. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 101
 CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 
Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. 
The Firm provides credit (for example, through loans, lending-

related commitments, guarantees and derivatives) to a variety of 

customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to the 

individual consumer. For the wholesale business, credit risk man-

agement includes the distribution of the Firm™s syndicated loan 

originations into the marketplace with exposure held in the re-

tained portfolio averaging less than 10%. Wholesale loans gener-

ated by CB and AM are generally retained on the balance sheet. 

With regard to the consumer credit market, the Firm focuses on 

creating a portfolio that is diversified from both a product and a 

geographic perspective. Loss mitigation strategies are being em-

ployed for all home lending portfolios. These strategies include rate 

reductions, forbearance and other actions intended to minimize 

economic loss and avoid foreclosure. In the mortgage business, 

originated loans are either retained in the mortgage portfolio or 

securitized and sold to U.S. government agencies and U.S. govern-

ment-sponsored enterprises.  
Credit risk organization 
 Credit risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer and 
implemented within the lines of business. The Firm™s credit risk 

management governance consists of the following functions:  
· establishing a comprehensive credit risk policy framework  
· monitoring and managing credit risk across all portfolio  
segments, including transaction and line approval 
· assigning and managing credit authorities in connection with  

the approval of all credit exposure  
· managing criticized exposures and delinquent loans 
· calculating the allowance for credit losses and ensuring appro-

priate credit risk-based capital management 
 
Risk identification 
 The Firm is exposed to credit risk through lending and capital 

markets activities. Credit risk management works in partnership 

with the business segments in identifying and aggregating expo-

sures across all lines of business.  
Risk measurement  
To measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for 

estimating the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default. Meth-

odologies for measuring credit risk vary depending on several 

factors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer installment versus 

wholesale loan), risk measurement parameters (e.g., delinquency 

status and credit bureau score versus wholesale risk-rating) and risk 

management and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center 

versus centrally managed workout groups). Credit risk measure-

ment is based on the amount of exposure should the obligor or the 

counterparty default, the probability of default and the loss severity 

given a default event. Based on these factors and related market-

based inputs, the Firm estimates both probable and unexpected 

losses for the wholesale and consumer portfolios. Probable losses, 

reflected in the provision for credit losses, are based primarily upon 
statistical estimates of credit losses as a result of obligor or coun-

terparty default. However, probable losses are not the sole indica-

tors of risk. If losses were entirely predictable, the probable loss 

rate could be factored into pricing and covered as a normal and 

recurring cost of doing business. Unexpected losses, reflected in the 

allocation of credit risk capital, represent the potential volatility of 

actual losses relative to the probable level of losses. Risk measure-

ment for the wholesale portfolio is assessed primarily on a risk-

rated basis; for the consumer portfolio, it is assessed primarily on a 

credit-scored basis.  
Risk-rated exposure
  For portfolios that are risk-rated (generally held in IB, CB, TSS and 

AM), probable and unexpected loss calculations are based on esti-

mates of probability of default and loss given default. Probability of 

default is the expected default calculated on an obligor basis. Loss 

given default is an estimate of losses given a default event and takes 

into consideration collateral and structural support for each credit 

facility. Calculations and assumptions are based on management 

information systems and methodologies which are under continual 

review. Risk ratings are assigned to differentiate risk within the 

portfolio and are reviewed on an ongoing basis by Credit Risk Man-

agement and revised, if needed, to reflect the borrowers™ current 

financial position, risk profiles and the related collateral and structural 

positions.  
Credit-scored exposure
  For credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS and CS), probable 

loss is based on a statistical analysis of inherent losses over discrete 

periods of time. Probable losses are estimated using sophisticated 

portfolio modeling, credit scoring and decision-support tools to 

project credit risks and establish underwriting standards. In addition, 

common measures of credit quality derived from historical loss ex-

perience are used to predict consumer losses. Other risk characteris-

tics evaluated include recent loss experience in the portfolios, changes 

in origination sources, portfolio seasoning, loss severity and underly-

ing credit practices, including charge-off policies. These analyses are 

applied to the Firm™s current portfolios in order to estimate delin-

quencies and severity of losses, which determine the amount of 

probable losses. These factors and analyses are updated at least on a 

quarterly basis or more frequently as market conditions dictate.  
Risk monitoring 
 The Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to 
preserve the independence and integrity of the approval and deci-

sion-making process of extending credit, and to ensure credit risks 

are assessed accurately, approved properly, monitored regularly 

and managed actively at both the transaction and portfolio levels. 

The policy framework establishes credit approval authorities, con-

centration limits, risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review pa-

rameters and guidelines for management of distressed exposure. 

Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly on both an aggregate 

portfolio level and on an individual customer basis. Management of 

the Firm™s wholesale exposure is accomplished through a number 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
102
 of means including loan syndication and participations, loan sales, 
securitizations, credit derivatives, use of master netting agreements 

and collateral and other risk-reduction techniques, which are fur-

ther discussed in the following risk sections. For consumer credit 

risk, the key focus items are trends and concentrations at the 

portfolio level, where potential problems can be remedied through 

changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. Con-

sumer Credit Risk Management monitors trends against business 

expectations and industry benchmarks.  
Risk reporting 
 To enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making, aggregate 
credit exposure, credit quality forecasts, concentrations levels and 

risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior credit risk 

management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer, 

product and geographic concentrations occurs monthly, and the 

appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by 

senior management at least on a quarterly basis. Through the risk 

reporting and governance structure, credit risk trends and limit 

exceptions are provided regularly to, and discussed with, senior 

management, as mentioned on page 94 of this Annual Report.  
2009 Credit risk overview 
 During 2009, the credit environment experienced further deteriora-
tion compared with 2008, resulting in increased defaults, down-

grades and reduced liquidity.  In the first part of the year, the pace of 

deterioration increased, adversely affecting many financial institutions 

and impacting the functioning of credit markets, which remained 

weak.  The pace of deterioration also gave rise to a high level of 

uncertainty regarding the ultimate extent of the downturn. The Firm™s 

credit portfolio was affected by these market conditions and experi-

enced continued deteriorating credit quality, especially in the first part 

of the year, generally consistent with the market.    
For the wholesale portfolio, criticized assets, nonperforming assets 

and charge-offs increased significantly from 2008, reflecting contin-

ued weakness in the portfolio, particularly in commercial real es-

tate. In the latter part of the year, there were some positive 

indicators, for example, loan origination activity and market liquidity 

improved and credit spreads tightened. The wholesale businesses 

have remained focused on actively managing the portfolio, includ-

ing ongoing, in-depth reviews of credit quality and industry, prod-

uct and client concentrations. Underwriting standards across all 

areas of lending have remained under review and strengthened 

where appropriate, consistent with evolving market conditions and 

the Firm™s risk management activities. In light of the current market 

conditions, the wholesale allowance for loan loss coverage ratio 

has been strengthened to 3.57% from 2.64% at the end of 2008. 
The consumer portfolio credit performance continued to be nega-
tively affected by the economic environment of 2009. Higher unem-

ployment and weaker overall economic conditions have led to a 

significant increase in the number of loans charged off, while contin-

ued weak housing prices have driven a significant increase in the 

severity of loss recognized on real estate loans that defaulted. During 

2009, the Firm took proactive action to assist homeowners most in 

need of financial assistance, including participation in the U.S. Treas-

ury Making Home Affordable (ﬁMHAﬂ) programs, which are designed 

to assist eligible homeowners in a number of ways, one of which is by 

modifying the terms of their mortgages. The MHA programs and the 

Firm™s other loss-mitigation programs for financially troubled borrow-

ers generally represent various concessions, such as term extensions, 

rate reductions and deferral of principal payments that would have 

been required under the terms of the original agreement. The Firm™s 

loss-mitigation programs are intended to minimize economic loss to 

the Firm, while providing alternatives to foreclosure.  
More detailed discussion of the domestic consumer credit environ-
ment can be found in Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 114Œ123 

of this Annual Report.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 103
 CREDIT PORTFOLIO 
The following table presents JPMorgan Chase™s credit portfolio as 
of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Total credit exposure at Decem-

ber 31, 2009, decreased by $322.6 billion from December 31, 

2008, reflecting decreases of $170.5 billion in the wholesale port-

folio and $152.1 billion in the consumer portfolio. During 2009, 

lending-related commitments decreased by $130.3 billion, man-

aged loans decreased by $112.4 billion and derivative receivables 

decreased by $82.4 billion.  
While overall portfolio exposure declined, the Firm provided more 

than $600 billion in new loans and lines of credit to consumer and 

wholesale clients in 2009, including individuals, small businesses, 

large corporations, not-for-profit organizations, U.S. states and 
municipalities, and other financial institutions. 
 In the table below, reported loans include loans retained; loans held-for-sale (which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, with changes in 
value recorded in noninterest revenue); and loans accounted for at fair value. Loans retained are presented net of unearned income, unamortized 

discounts and premiums, and net deferred loan costs; for additional information, see Note 13 on pages 200Œ204 of this Annual Report. Nonper-
forming assets include nonaccrual loans and assets acquired in satisfaction of debt (primarily real estate owned). Nonaccrual loans are those for 

which the accrual of interest has been suspended in accordance with the Firm™s accounting policies, which are described in Note 13 on pages 

200Œ204 of this Annual Report. Average retained loan balances are used for the net charge-off rate calculations. 
Total credit portfolio
            As of or for the year ended 
 December 31, 
  Credit exposure 
   Nonperforming 
  assets
(c)(d) 
 90 days or more past due  
   
  and still accruing
(d) 
   Net charge-offs 
   Average annual 

  net charge-off rate
(e)(f)
 (in millions, except ratios)
  2009
  2008 
 2009
  2008 
 2009 
 2008 
 2009
  2008 
 2009
 2008
  Total credit portfolio
  
    
      
Loans retained 
$  627,218
  $ 728,915 
 $ 17,219
  $ 8,921 
 $ 4,355
   $ 3,275 
 $ 22,965
   $   9,835 
3.42%
 1.73
 % 
Loans held-for-sale 
 4,876
   8,287 
   234
   12 
  Š
   Š 
  Š
   Š 
Š Š
  Loans at fair value 
 1,364
   7,696 
   111
   20 
  Š
   Š 
  Š
   Š 
Š Š
  Loans Œ reported 
 633,458
   744,898 
  17,564
   8,953 
  4,355
   3,275 
  22,965
   9,835 
3.42
 1.73
  Loans Œ securitized
(a)
  84,626
   85,571 
   Š
   Š 
  2,385
   1,802 
  6,443
   3,612 
7.55
 4.53
     Total managed loans
  718,084
   830,469 
   17,564
   8,953 
  6,740
   5,077 
  29,408
   13,447 
3.88
 2.08
  Derivative receivables 
 80,210
   162,626 
   529
   1,079 
  Š
   Š 
  NA
   NA 
NA
 NA
  Receivables from customers 
 15,745
   16,141 
   Š
   Š 
  Š
   Š 
  NA
   NA 
NA
 NA
  Interests in purchased 
receivables 
 2,927
   Š 
   Š
   Š 
  Š
   Š 
  Š
   Š 
Š Š
  Total managed  
credit-related assets
  816,966
   1,009,236 
   18,093
   10,032 
  6,740
   5,077 
  29,408
   13,447 
3.88
 2.08
  Lending-related  
commitments 
 991,095
   1,121,378 
   NA
   NA 
  NA
   NA 
  NA
   NA 
NA
 NA
  Assets acquired in  
loan satisfactions 
           Real estate owned 
 NA
  NA 
   1,548
   2,533 
  NA
   NA 
  NA
   NA 
NA
 NA
  Other 
 NA
  NA 
   100
   149 
  NA
   NA 
  NA
   NA 
NA
 NA
  Total
 assets acquired  
in loan satisfactions
  NA
  NA 
   1,648
   2,682 
  NA
   NA 
  NA
   NA 
NA
 NA
  Total credit portfolio
 $ 1,808,061
  $ 2,130,614 
 $ 19,741
  $ 12,714 
 $ 6,740
   $ 5,077 
 $ 29,408
   $ 13,447 
3.88%
   2.08
 % 
Net credit derivative 
hedges notional
(b)
 $  (48,376)
  $ (91,451)
  $ (139)
  $ Š 
  NA
   NA 
  NA
   NA 
NA
 NA
 Liquid securities collateral 
held against derivatives 
(15,519)
   (19,816)
    NA
   NA 
  NA
   NA 
  NA
   NA 
NA
 NA
 (a) Represents securitized credit card receivables. For further discussion of credit card securitizations, see Note 15 on pages 206Œ213 of this Annual Report. 
(b) Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage both performing and nonperforming 
credit exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. For additional information, see Credit derivatives on pages 111Œ112 and Note 5 on 

pages 175Œ183 of this Annual Report. 
(c) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, nonperforming loans and assets excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $9.0 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively; (2) real 
estate owned insured by U.S. government agencies of $579 million and $364 million, respectively; and (3) student loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by 
U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program of $542 million and $437 million, respectively. These amounts are excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding 

normally. In addition, the Firm™s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance.  Under guidance issued by the 
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiv-
ing notification about a specified event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), whichever is earlier. 
(d) Excludes purchased credit-impaired loans that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is 
accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past due status of the pools, or that of individual loans 

within the pools, is not meaningful. Because the Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, they are all considered to be performing. 
(e) Net charge-off ratios were calculated using: (1) average retained loans of $672.3 billion and $567.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively;  
(2) average securitized loans of $85.4 billion and $79.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively; and (3) average managed loans of $757.7 billion and 
$646.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(f)  Firmwide net charge-off ratios were calculated including average purchased credit-impaired loans of $85.4 billion and $22.3 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respec-
tively. Excluding the impact of purchased credit-impaired loans, the total Firm™s managed net charge-off rate would have been 4.37% and 2.15% respectively. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
104
 WHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO 
As of December 31, 2009, wholesale exposure (IB, CB, TSS and AM) 
decreased by $170.5 billion from December 31, 2008. The $170.5 

billion decrease was primarily driven by decreases of $82.4 billion of 

derivative receivables, $57.9 billion of loans and $32.7 billion of 

lending-related commitments. The decrease in derivative receivables 
was primarily related to tightening credit spreads, volatile foreign 

exchange rates and rising rates on interest rate swaps. Loans and 

lending-related commitments decreased across most wholesale lines 

of business, as lower customer demand continued to affect the level 

of lending activity. 
    Wholesale
    As of or for the year ended December 31,
   Credit exposure 
   Nonperforming loans
(b) 
   90 days past due 
   and still accruing 
(in millions) 
 2009
  2008 
 2009
  2008 
 2009 
2008
Loans retained 
  $ 200,077 
 $ 248,089 
  $ 6,559 
  $ 2,350 
  $ 332 
 $ 163
Loans held-for-sale 
  2,734 
  6,259 
  234 
  12 
  Š 
ŠLoans at fair value 
  1,364 
  7,696 
  111 
  20 
  Š 
ŠLoans Œ reported 
  $ 204,175 
  $ 262,044 
  $ 6,904 
  $ 2,382 
  $ 332 
 $ 163
Derivative receivables 
  80,210 
  162,626 
  529 
  1,079 
  Š 
ŠReceivables from customers 
  15,745 
  16,141 
  Š 
  Š 
  Š 
ŠInterests in purchased receivables 
  2,927 
  Š 
  Š 
  Š 
  Š 
ŠTotal wholesale credit-related assets
   303,057 
  440,811 
  7,433 
  3,461 
  332 
163
Lending-related commitments 
  347,155 
  379,871 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
NA
Total wholesale credit exposure
   $ 650,212 
  $ 820,682 
  $ 7,433 
  $ 3,461 
  $ 332 
 $ 163
Net credit derivative hedges notional
(a)
   $  (48,376) 
  $  (91,451) 
  $   (139) 
  $      Š 
  NA 
NA
Liquid securities collateral held against derivatives 
  (15,519) 
  (19,816) 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
NA
(a) Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage both performing and nonperform-
ing credit exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. For additional information, see Credit derivatives on pages 111Œ112, and 
Note 5 on pages 175Œ183 of this Annual Report. 
(b) Excludes assets acquired in loan satisfactions. For additional information, see the wholesale nonperforming assets by line of business segment table on pages 108Œ109 
of this Annual Report.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 105
 The following table presents summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale portfolio as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The 
ratings scale is based on the Firm™s internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody™s. 
Wholesale credit exposure Œ maturity and ratings profile 
Maturity profile
(c)
  Ratings profile
  December 31, 2009
  
(in billions, except ratios) 
Due in 1 
 year or less
 Due after 1 year 
through 5 years
 Due after  
5 years
 Total
 Investment-grade (ﬁIGﬂ)
 AAA/Aaa to BBB-/Baa3
 Noninvestment-grade
 BB+/Ba1 & below
 Total
   Total %
     
of IG
   
 Loans
  29%  40% 31% 100% $ 118  $   82  $ 200 59% 
Derivative receivables
  12  42 46 100 
61  19   80 76 
Lending-related commitments
  41  57 2 100 
281  66   347 81 
Total excluding loans 
held-for-sale and loans 
at fair value 
 34%  50% 16% 100% $ 460  $ 167   627 73% 
Loans held-for-sale and 
loans at fair value
(a)
   
  
  
  4  
Receivables from customers   
  
  
  16
  
Interests in purchased  
receivables 
  
  
  
  3  
Total exposure 
  
  
  
 $ 650  
Net credit derivative hedges 
notional
(b)
  49%  42% 9% 100% $  (48)  $   Š  $  (48) 100% 
 Maturity profile
(c)
  Ratings profile
  December 31, 2008
 (in billions, except ratios) 
Due in 1 
 year or less
 Due after 1 year 
through 5 years
 Due after  
5 years
 Total
 Investment-grade (ﬁIGﬂ)
 AAA/Aaa to BBB-/Baa3
 Noninvestment-grade
 BB+/Ba1 & below
 Total
   Total %
     
of IG
   
 Loans
  32%  43% 25% 100% $ 161  $   87  $ 248 65% 
Derivative receivables
  31  36 33 100 
127  36   163 78 
Lending-related commitments
  37  59 
4 100 
317  63   380 83 
Total excluding loans 
held-for-sale and loans 

at fair value 
 34%  50% 16% 100% $ 605  $ 186   791 77% 
Loans held-for-sale and 
loans at fair value
(a)
   
  
  
  14  
Receivables from customers   
  
  
  16  
Total exposure 
  
  
  
 $ 821  
Net credit derivative hedges 
notional
(b)
  47%  47% 6% 100% $  (82)  $   (9)  $  (91) 90% 
(a) Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value relate primarily to syndicated loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio.  
(b) Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these 
derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP.  
(c) The maturity profile of loans and lending-related commitments is based on the remaining contractual maturity. The maturity profile of derivative receivables is based on 
the maturity profile of average exposure. See Derivative contracts on pages 110Œ112 of this Annual Report for further discussion of average exposure. 
 Wholesale credit exposure Œ selected industry exposures   
The Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its indus-

try exposures, with particular attention paid to industries with actual 

or potential credit concerns. Customer receivables representing 

primarily margin loans to prime and retail brokerage clients of $15.7 

billion are included in the table. These margin loans are generally fully 

collateralized by cash or highly liquid securities to satisfy daily mini-

mum collateral requirements. Exposures deemed criticized generally 

represent a ratings profile similar to a rating of ﬁCCC+ﬂ/ﬂCaa1ﬂ 

and lower, as defined by S&P and Moody™s. The total criticized  
component of the portfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale and loans 

at fair value, increased to $33.2 billion at December 31, 2009, from 

$26.0 billion at year-end 2008. The increase was primarily related 

to downgrades within the portfolio. 
During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Firm revised certain industry 
classifications to better reflect risk correlations and enhance the 

Firm™s management of industry risk. Below are summaries of the top 

25 industry exposures as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. For 

additional information on industry concentrations, see Note 32 on 

pages 242Œ243 of this Annual Report. 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
106
 Wholesale credit exposure Œ selected industry exposures
     Noninvestment-grade 
 December 31, 2009
 (in millions, except ratios)
 Credit 
exposure(d) 
% of 
portfolio 
Investment 
grade Noncriticized Criticized 
% of 
criticized 
portfolio 
Net 
charge-offs/
 (recoveries)
 Credit 
derivative 
hedges(e) 
       Collateral 
      
 held against
        derivative 
       
receivables(f)
  Top 25 industries
(a)
    
      
 Real estate 
  $ 68,509 11%
 55%  $ 18,810   $ 11,975 36%   $   688   $ (1,168)  $        (35) 
Banks and finance companies 
  54,053   9   81   8,424   2,053   6   719   (3,718)  (8,353) 
Healthcare 
  35,605   6   83   5,700   329   1   10   (2,545)  (125) 
State and municipal governments 
  34,726   5   93   1,850   466   1   Š   (204)  (193) 
Utilities 
  27,178   4   81   3,877   1,238   4   182   (3,486)  (360) 
Consumer products 
  27,004   4   64   9,105   515   2   35   (3,638) 
 (4) 
Asset managers 
  24,920   4   82   3,742   680   2   7   (40)  (2,105) 
Oil and gas 
  23,322   4   73   5,854   386   1   16   (2,567) 
 (6) 
Retail and consumer services 
  20,673   3   58   7,867   782   2   35   (3,073) 
 Š 
Holding companies 
  16,018   3   86   2,107   110   Š   275   (421)  (320) 
Technology 
  14,169   2   63   4,004   1,288   4   28   (1,730)  (130) 
Insurance 
  13,421   2   69   3,601   599   2   7   (2,735)  (793) 
Machinery and equipment 
manufacturing 
  12,759   2   57   5,122   350   1   12   (1,327) 
 (1) 
Metals/mining 
  12,547   2   56   4,906   639   2   24   (1,963) 
 Š 
Media 
  12,379   2   55   3,898   1,692   5   464   (1,606) 
 Š 
Telecom services 
  11,265   2   69   3,273   251   1   31   (3,455)  (62) 
Securities firms and exchanges 
  10,832   2   76   2,467   145   Š   Š   (289)  (2,139) 
Business services 
  10,667   2   61   3,859   344   1   8   (107) 
 Š 
Building materials/construction 
  10,448   2   43   4,537   1,399   4   98   (1,141) 
 Š 
Chemicals/plastics 
  9,870   2   67   2,626   611   2   22   (1,357) 
 Š 
Transportation 
  9,749   1   66   2,745   588   2   61   (870)  (242) 
Central government 
  9,557   1   99   77   Š   Š   Š   (4,814)  (30) 
Automotive 
  9,357   1   41   4,252   1,240   4   52   (1,541) 
 Š 
Leisure 
  6,822   1   40   2,274   1,798   5   151   (301) 
 Š 
Agriculture/paper manufacturing 
  5,801   1   37   3,132   500   2   10   (897) 
 Š 
All other
(b)
   135,791   22   86   15,448   3,205   10   197   (3,383)  (621) 
Subtotal
   $ 627,442 100%
 73%  $ 133,557   $ 33,183 100%   $ 3,132   $ (48,376)  $ (15,519) 
Loans held-for-sale and loans at  
fair value 
  4,098   
   1,545  
  
 Receivables from customers 
  15,745 
  
     
   
 Interest in purchased receivables
(c)
    2,927 
   
   
   
 Total 
   $ 650,212   
 $ 133,557   $ 34,728  
  $ 3,132   $ (48,376)  $ (15,519) 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 107
      Noninvestment-grade 
 December 31, 2008 
(in millions, except ratios)
 Credit 
exposure(d) 
% of 
portfolio 
Investment 
grade Noncriticized Criticized 
% of 
criticized 

portfolio 
Net 
charge-offs/
 (recoveries)
 Credit 
derivative 
hedges(e) 
       Collateral 
       
held against
        derivative 
       
receivables(f)
 Top 25 industries
(a)
    
      
 Real estate 
  $  80,284    10% 70%   $   17,849   $   5,961 
23%  $ 212  $   (2,141) $        (48
 ) 
Banks and finance companies 
  75,577 10 79   12,953   2,849   11   28   (5,016) (9,457
 ) 
Healthcare 
  38,032 5 83   6,092   436   2   2   (5,338) (199
 ) 
State and municipal governments 
  36,772 5 94   1,278   847   3   Š   (677) (134
 ) 
Utilities 
  34,246 4   83   5,844   114   Š   3   (9,007)  (65
 ) 
Consumer products 
  29,766 4   65   9,504   792   3   32   (8,114)  (54
 ) 
Asset managers 
  49,256 6   85   6,418   819   3   15   (115)  (5,303
 ) 
Oil and gas 
  24,746 3   75   5,940   231   1   15   (6,627) 
 (7
 ) 
Retail and consumer services   23,223 3   54   9,357   1,311   5   (6)   (6,120)  (55
 ) 
Holding companies 
  14,466 2   70   4,182   116   1   (1)   (689)  (309
 ) 
Technology 
  17,025 2   67   5,391   230   1   Š   (3,922) 
 (3
 ) 
Insurance 
  17,744 2   78   3,138   712   3   Š   (5,016)  (846
 ) 
Machinery and equipment 
manufacturing 
  14,501 2   64   5,095   100   Š   22   (3,743) 
 (6
 ) 
Metals/mining 
  14,980 2   61   5,579   262   1   (7)   (3,149) 
 (3
 ) 
Media 
  13,177 2   61   3,779   1,305   5   26   (3,435) 
 Š
  Telecom services 
  13,237 2   63   4,368   499   2   (5)   (7,073)  (92
 ) 
Securities firms and exchanges   25,590 3   81   4,744   138   1   Š   (151)  (898
 ) 
Business services 
  11,247 1   64   3,885   145   1   46   (357) 
 Š
  Building materials/construction   12,065 2   49   4,925   1,342   5   22   (2,601) 
 Š
  Chemicals/plastics 
  11,719 1   66   3,357   591   2   5   (2,709) 
 Š
  Transportation 
  10,253 1   64   3,364   319   1   Š   (1,567) 
 Š
  Central government 
  14,441 2   98   276   Š   Š   Š   (4,548)  (35
 ) 
Automotive 
  11,448 1   52   3,687   1,775   7   (1)   (2,975) 
 (1
 ) 
Leisure 
  8,158 1 42   2,827   1,928   7   (1)   (721) 
Š  Agriculture/paper manufacturing 
  6,920 1 43   3,226   726   3   1   (835) 
Š  All other
(b)
   181,713 23 86   22,321   2,449   9   (6)   (4,805) (2,301
 ) 
Subtotal
   $ 790,586  100% 77%   $ 159,379   $ 25,997 100%   $ 402   $ (91,451) $ (19,816
 ) 
Loans held-for-sale and loans  
at fair value 
  13,955   
   2,258  
  
  Receivables from customers 
  16,141   
     
  
  Interest in purchased receivables
(c)
    Š   
     
  
  Total 
   $ 820,682   
 $ 159,379  $ 28,255      $ 402   $ (91,451) $ (19,816
 ) 
(a) Rankings are based on exposure at December 31, 2009. The rankings of the industries presented in the 2008 table are based on the rankings of such industries at year-end 
2009, not actual rankings in 2008. 
(b) For more information on exposures to SPEs included in all other, see Note 16 on pages 214Œ222 of this Annual Report.
 (c) Represents undivided interests in pools of receivables and similar types of assets due to the consolidation during 2009 of one of the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits. 
 (d) Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivative hedges and collateral held against derivative receivables or loans.  
(e) Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives 
do not qualify for hedge accounting.  
(f) Represents other liquid securities collateral held by the Firm as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
Presented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm 
has significant exposure, as well as industries the Firm continues to 

monitor because of actual or potential credit concerns. For additional 

information, refer to the tables above and on the preceding page. 
· Real estate: Exposure to this industry decreased by 15% or 
$11.8 billion from 2008 as loans and commitments were man-

aged down, predominantly through repayments and loans 

sales. This sector continues to be challenging as property val-

ues in the U.S. remain under pressure, particularly in certain 

regions. The ratios of nonperforming loans and net charge-offs 

to loans have increased from 2008 due to deterioration in the 

commercial real estate portfolio, particularly in the latter half 

of 2009. The multi-family portfolio, which represents almost 

half of the commercial real estate exposure, accounts for the 
smallest proportion of nonperforming loans and net charge-

offs. The commercial lessors portfolio involves real estate 

leased to retail, industrial and office space tenants, while the 

commercial construction and development portfolio includes 

financing for the construction of office and professional build-

ings and malls. Commercial real estate exposure in CB is pre-

dominantly secured; CB™s exposure represents the majority of 

the Firm™s commercial real estate exposure. IB manages less 

than one fifth of the total Firm™s commercial real estate expo-

sure; IB™s exposure represents primarily unsecured lending to 

Real Estate Investment Trust (ﬁREITsﬂ), lodging, and home-

building clients. The increase in criticized real estate exposure 

was largely a result of downgrades within the overall portfolio 

reflecting the continued weakening credit environment.
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
108
 The following table presents additional information on the wholesale real estate industry for the periods ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
December 31, 2009
 (in millions, except ratios) 
Credit  
exposure 
% of credit  
portfolio 
Criticized 
exposure
 Nonperforming
 loans 
% of nonperforming 
 loans to total loans
(b)
 Net charge-offs/ 
 (recoveries) 
        % of net 
       charge-offs 
     to total loans
 (b)
 Commercial real estate subcategories
   
     Multi-family 
 $ 32,073    47% 
  $   3,986 
  $ 1,109 3.57% 
  $ 199 
  0.64
 % Commercial lessors 
  18,512   27 
  4,017 
  1,057   6.97 
  232  1.53
  Commercial construction and development 
  6,593   10 
  1,518 
  313   6.81 
  105  2.28
  Other
(a)
   11,331   16 
  2,454 
  409   6.44 
  152  2.39
  Total commercial real estate 
 $ 68,509   100% 
  $ 11,975 
  $ 2,888   5.05% 
  $ 688  1.20
 %  December 31, 2008 
(in millions, except ratios) 
Credit  
exposure 
% of credit  
portfolio 
Criticized 
exposure
 Nonperforming
 loans 
% of nonperforming 
 loans to total loans
(b)
 Net charge-offs/ 
 (recoveries) 
        % of net 
       charge-offs 
     to total loans
 (b)
 Commercial real estate subcategories
   
     Multi-family 
 $ 36,188 45% 
  $ 1,191 
  $ 293 0.87% 
  $    (1)       Š
 % Commercial lessors 
  21,037   26 
  1,649 
  74   0.43 
  4   0.02
  Commercial construction and development 
  6,688   8 
  706 
  82   1.95 
  4   0.10
  Other
(a)
   16,371   21 
  2,415 
  357   3.89 
  205   2.23
  Total commercial real estate 
 $ 80,284   100% 
  $ 5,961 
  $ 806   1.25% 
  $ 212   0.33
 % (a) Other includes lodging, REITs, single family, homebuilders and other real estate. 

(b) Ratios were calculated using end-of-period retained loans of $57.2 billion and $64.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
  · Banks and finance companies: Exposure to this industry de-

creased by 28% or $21.5 billion from 2008, primarily as a result 

of lower derivative exposure to commercial banks. 
· Automotive: Conditions in the U.S. had improved by the end of 

2009, largely as a result of the government supported restructur-

ing of General Motors and Chrysler in the first half of 2009 and the 

related effects on automotive suppliers. Exposure to this industry 

decreased by 18% or $2.1 billion and criticized exposure de-

creased 30% or $535 million from 2008, largely due to loan re-

payments and sales. Most of the Firm™s remaining criticized 

exposure in this segment remains performing and is substantially 

secured. 
· Leisure: Exposure to this industry decreased by 16% or $1.3 

billion from 2008 due to loan repayments and sales, primarily in 

gaming. While exposure to this industry declined, the criticized 
component remained elevated due to the continued weakness in 

the industry, particularly in gaming. The gaming portfolio contin-

ues to be managed actively. 
· All other: All other in the wholesale credit exposure concentration 

table on pages 106Œ107 of this Annual Report at December 31, 

2009 (excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value) in-

cluded $135.8 billion of credit exposure to seven industry seg-

ments. Exposures related to SPEs and to Individuals, Private 

Education & Civic Organizations were 44% and 47%, respectively, 

of this category. SPEs provide secured financing (generally backed 

by receivables, loans or bonds) originated by a diverse group of 

companies in industries that are not highly correlated. For further 

discussion of SPEs, see Note 16 on pages 214Œ222 of this Annual 

Report. The remaining all other exposure is well-diversified across 

industries and none comprise more than 1.0% of total exposure. 
Loans 

The following table presents wholesale loans and nonperforming assets by business segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
 December 31, 2009 
Loans 
Nonperforming 
 Assets acquired in loan 
satisfactions 
 (in millions)
 Retained 
Held-for-sale 
 and fair value 
Total Loans Derivatives 
Real estate 
 owned 
Other
  Nonperforming
 assets 
Investment Bank 
 $   45,544   $ 3,567 $   49,111   $ 3,504 
  $ 529
(b)
   $ 203   $ Š  $ 4,236
 Commercial Banking 
  97,108   324 97,432   2,801   Š   187   1  2,989
 Treasury & Securities Services 
  18,972   Š 18,972   14   Š   Š   Š  14
 Asset Management 
  37,755   Š 37,755   580   Š   2   Š  582
 Corporate/Private Equity 
  698   207 905   5   Š   Š   Š  5
 Total
  $ 200,077   $ 4,098 $ 204,175 
  $ 6,904
(a)
   $ 529   $ 392   $   1  $ 7,826
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 109
    December 31, 2008 
Loans 
Nonperforming 
 Assets acquired in loan 
satisfactions 
 (in millions)
 Retained 
Held-for-sale 
 and fair value 
Total Loans Derivatives 
Real estate 
 owned 
Other
  Nonperforming
 assets 
Investment Bank  $   71,357 
  $ 13,660 
 $   85,017   $ 1,175 
  $ 1,079
(b)
   $ 247   $ Š $ 2,501
Commercial Banking   115,130    295   115,425   1,026    Š   102   14 
1,142
Treasury & Securities Services   24,508    Š   24,508   30    Š   Š   Š 
30
Asset Management   36,188    Š   36,188   147    Š   Š   25 
172
Corporate/Private Equity   906    Š   906   4    Š   Š   Š 
4Total
  $ 248,089 
  $ 13,955 
 $ 262,044   $ 2,382
(a)
   $ 1,079 
  $ 349   $ 39 $ 3,849
(a) The Firm held allowance for loan losses of $2.0 billion and $712 million related to nonperforming retained loans resulting in allowance coverage ratios of 31% and 
30%, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Wholesale nonperforming loans represent 3.38% and 0.91% of total wholesale loans at December 31, 2009 and 
2008, respectively. 
(b) Nonperforming derivatives represent less than 1.0% of the total derivative receivables net of cash collateral at both December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
 In the normal course of business, the Firm provides loans to a 
variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients 

to high-net-worth individuals.  
Retained wholesale loans were $200.1 billion at December 31, 
2009, compared with $248.1 billion at December 31, 2008. The 

$48.0 billion decrease, across most wholesale lines of business, 

reflected lower customer demand. Loans held-for-sale and loans at 

fair value relate primarily to syndicated loans and loans transferred 

from the retained portfolio. Held-for-sale loans and loans carried at 

fair value were $4.1 billion and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2009 

and 2008, respectively. The decreases in both held-for-sale loans 

and loans at fair value reflected sales, reduced carrying values and 

lower volumes in the syndication market.  
The Firm actively manages wholesale credit exposure through loan 
and commitment sales. During 2009 and 2008, the Firm sold $3.9 

billion of loans and commitments in each year, recognizing losses of 
$38 million and $41 million in each period, respectively. These results 

include gains or losses on sales of nonperforming loans, if any, as 

discussed on page 110 of this Annual Report. These activities are not 

related to the Firm™s securitization activities, which are undertaken for 

liquidity and balance sheetŒmanagement purposes. For further 

discussion of securitization activity, see Liquidity Risk Management 

and Note 15 on pages 96Œ100 and 206Œ213, respectively, of this 

Annual Report. 
Nonperforming wholesale loans were $6.9 billion at December 31, 
2009, an increase of $4.5 billion from December 31, 2008, reflect-

ing continued deterioration in the credit environment, predomi-

nantly related to loans in the real estate, leisure and banks and 

finance companies industries. As of December 31, 2009, wholesale 

loans restructured as part of a troubled debt restructuring were 

approximately $1.1 billion. 
The following table presents the geographic distribution of wholesale loans and nonperforming loans as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The  

geographic distribution of the wholesale portfolio is determined based predominantly on the domicile of the borrower. 
Loans and nonperforming loans, U.S. and Non-U.S.  
   
December 31, 2009 
  December 31, 2008
 Wholesale
  
(in millions) 
           Loans 
  Nonperform
ing 
          loans             Loans 
    Nonperform
ing 
     loans 
U.S. 
  $ 149,085  $ 5,844
  $ 186,776$ 2,123
Non-U.S.
   55,090  1,060
  75,268259
Ending balance
   $ 204,175  $ 6,904
  $ 262,044$ 2,382
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
110
 The following table presents the change in the nonperforming loan 
portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
Nonperforming loan activity 
 Wholesale 
  Year ended December 31, (in millions)
 2009
2008
Beginning balance
  $ 2,382
 $ 514
   Additions 
  13,591
  3,381
   Reductions:  
       Paydowns and other 
  4,964
  859
      Gross charge-offs 
  2,974
  521
      Returned to performing 
  341
  93
      Sales 
  790
  40
   
Total reductions
   9,069
  1,513
   
Net additions 
   4,522
  1,868
Ending balance
  $ 6,904
 $ 2,382
The following table presents net charge-offs, which are defined as 
gross charge-offs less recoveries, for the years ended December 31, 

2009 and 2008. The amounts in the table below do not include 

gains from sales of nonperforming loans. 
Net charge-offs  
   
Wholesale 
   
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except ratios) 
 2009 
2008
  Loans Œ reported 
   
   Average loans retained 
$   223,047 
$ 219,612
     Net charge-offs 
 3,132 
  402
     Average annual net charge-off rate 
      1.40%
          0.18
 %Derivative contracts 
In the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative instru-

ments to meet the needs of customers; to generate revenue 

through trading activities; to manage exposure to fluctuations in 

interest rates, currencies and other markets; and to manage the 

Firm™s credit exposure. For further discussion of these contracts, see 

Note 5 and Note 32 on pages 175Œ183 and 242Œ243 of this 

Annual Report. 
The following tables summarize the net derivative receivables MTM 
for the periods presented.  
Derivative receivables marked to market 
December 31, 
Derivative receivables MTM  
(in millions) 
2009 
2008 
Interest rate
(a)
  $ 26,777
  $ 49,996 
Credit derivatives  
18,815 
44,695
Foreign exchange
(a)
 21,984
 38,820
Equity  
6,635
 14,285
Commodity  
5,999
 14,830
Total, net of cash collateral
 80,210
 162,626
Liquid securities collateral held  
   against derivative receivables 
(15,519)
 (19,816) 
Total, net of all collateral
  $ 64,691
  $ 142,810 
(a) In 2009, cross-currency interest rate swaps previously reported in interest 
rate contracts were reclassified to foreign exchange contracts to be more 
consistent with industry practice. The effect of this change resulted in a  
reclassification of $14.1 billion of cross-currency interest rate swaps to for-
eign exchange contracts as of December 31, 2008. 
The amount of derivative receivables reported on the Consoli-
dated Balance Sheets of $80.2 billion and $162.6 billion at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, are the amount of 
the MTM or fair value of the derivative contracts after giving 
effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements, cash 

collateral held by the Firm and CVA. These amounts on the Con-

solidated Balance Sheets represent the cost to the Firm to replace 

the contracts at current market rates should the counterparty 
default. However, in management™s view, the appropriate meas-
ure of current credit risk should also reflect additional liquid 

securities held as collateral by the Firm of $15.5 billion and $19.8 

billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, resulting in 

total exposure, net of all collateral, of $64.7 billion and $142.8 

billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The de-
crease of $78.1 billion in derivative receivables MTM, net of the 
above mentioned collateral, from December 31, 2008, was pri-

marily related to tightening credit spreads, volatile foreign exchange 
rates and rising rates on interest rate swaps. 
The Firm also holds additional collateral delivered by clients at the 
initiation of transactions, as well as collateral related to contracts that 

have a non-daily call frequency and collateral that the Firm has 

agreed to return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. 
Though this collateral does not reduce the balances noted in the table 
above, it is available as security against potential exposure that could 

arise should the MTM of the client™s derivative transactions move in 

the Firm™s favor. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Firm held 

$16.9 billion and $22.2 billion of this additional collateral, respec-

tively. The derivative receivables MTM, net of all collateral, also do 

not include other credit enhancements, such as letters of credit.  
While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net MTM 
value of the derivative receivables does not capture the potential 
future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potential 

future variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-

by-client basis, three measures of potential derivatives-related 

credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (ﬁDREﬂ), and Average 

exposure (ﬁAVGﬂ). These measures all incorporate netting and 

collateral benefits, where applicable. 
Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure 
calculated at a 97.5% confidence level. DRE exposure is a measure 
that expresses the risk of derivative exposure on a basis intended to 

be equivalent to the risk of loan exposures. The measurement is done 

by equating the unexpected loss in a derivative counterparty exposure 

(which takes into consideration both the loss volatility and the credit 

rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in a loan expo-
sure (which takes into consideration only the credit rating of the 
counterparty). DRE is a less extreme measure of potential credit loss 

than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit 
approval of derivative transactions. 
Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected MTM value of the Firm™s 
derivative receivables at future time periods, including the benefit 

of collateral. AVG exposure over the total life of the derivative 

contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is 
used to calculate credit capital and the CVA, as further described 
below. AVG exposure was $49.0 billion and $83.7 billion at De-

cember 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, compared with derivative 

receivables MTM, net of all collateral, of $64.7 billion and $142.8 
billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
The MTM value of the Firm™s derivative receivables incorporates an 
adjustment, the CVA, to reflect the credit quality of counterparties. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 111
 The CVA is based on the Firm™s AVG to a counterparty and the 
counterparty™s credit spread in the credit derivatives market. The  

primary components of changes in CVA are credit spreads, new 

deal activity or unwinds, and changes in the underlying market 
environment. The Firm believes that active risk management is 
essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives 

portfolio. In addition, the Firm takes into consideration the poten-

tial for correlation between the Firm™s AVG to a counterparty and 

the counterparty™s credit quality within the credit approval process. 

The Firm risk manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into 
credit derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, foreign ex-
change, equity and commodity derivative transactions.  
The accompanying graph shows exposure profiles to derivatives 
over the next ten years as calculated by the DRE and AVG metrics. 
The two measures generally show declining exposure after the first 

year, if no new trades were added to the portfolio. 
01020
304050607080$ 90Exposure profile of derivatives measuresDecember 31, 2009(in billions)AVGDRE1 year2 years
5 years10 years
 The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm™s derivative receivables MTM, net of other liquid securities collateral, for the 
dates indicated. 
Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM 
Rating equivalent 
  
2009 
   
2008 
 December 31, 
Exposure net of  % of exposure net Exposure net of % of exposure net
  (in millions, except ratios) of all collateral of all collateral of all collateral of all collateral  
AAA/Aaa to AA-/Aa3 
  $ 25,530 
40%
   $   68,708 
48
 % 
A+/A1 to A-/A3 
  12,432 19
   24,748 
17
 BBB+/Baa1 to BBB-/Baa3 
  9,343 
14
   15,747 
11
 BB+/Ba1 to B-/B3 
  14,571 23
   28,186 
20
 CCC+/Caa1 and below 
  2,815 
4   5,421 
4 Total
   $ 64,691 
100%
   $ 142,810 
100
 % 
The Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to miti-
gate counterparty credit risk in derivatives. The percentage of the 

Firm™s derivatives transactions subject to collateral agreements Œ 

excluding foreign exchange spot trades, which are not typically 
covered by collateral agreements due to their short maturity Œ was 
89% as of December 31, 2009, largely unchanged from 88% at 
December 31, 2008.  
The Firm posted $56.7 billion and $99.1 billion of collateral at  
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
Certain derivative and collateral agreements include provisions that 
require the counterparty and/or the Firm, upon specified down-

grades in the respective credit ratings of their legal entities, to post 

collateral for the benefit of the other party. At December 31, 2009, 

the impact of a single-notch and six-notch ratings downgrade to 
JPMorgan Chase & Co., and its subsidiaries, primarily JPMorgan 
Chase Bank, N.A., would have required $1.2 billion and $3.6 

billion, respectively, of additional collateral to be posted by the 

Firm. Certain derivative contracts also provide for termination of the 

contract, generally upon a downgrade to a specified rating of either 

the Firm or the counterparty, at the then-existing MTM value of the 

derivative contracts. 
Credit derivatives
  Credit derivatives are financial contracts that isolate credit risk from 
an underlying instrument (such as a loan or security) and transfers 

that risk from one party (the buyer of credit protection) to another 

(the seller of credit protection). The Firm is both a purchaser and 
seller of credit protection. As a purchaser of credit protection, the 

Firm has risk that the counterparty providing the credit protection 

will default. As a seller of credit protection, the Firm has risk that 

the underlying instrument referenced in the contract will be subject 
to a credit event. Of the Firm™s $80.2 billion of total derivative 
receivables MTM at December 31, 2009, $18.8 billion, or 23%, 

was associated with credit derivatives, before the benefit of liquid 
securities collateral.  
One type of credit derivatives the Firm enters into with counterpar-
ties are credit default swaps (ﬁCDSﬂ). For further detailed discus-

sion of these and other types of credit derivatives, see Note 5 on 

pages 175Œ183 of this Annual Report. The large majority of CDS 
are subject to collateral arrangements to protect the Firm from 
counterparty credit risk. In 2009, the frequency and size of defaults 

for both trading counterparties and the underlying debt referenced 

in credit derivatives were well above historical norms. The use of 

collateral to settle against defaulting counterparties generally 

performed as designed in significantly mitigating the Firm™s expo-

sure to these counterparties.  
The Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first, in 
its capacity as a market-maker in the dealer/client business to 
meet the needs of customers; and second, in order to mitigate 

the Firm™s own credit risk associated with its overall derivative 

receivables and traditional commercial credit lending exposures 
(loans and unfunded commitments). 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
112
 The following table presents the Firm™s notional amounts of credit 
derivatives protection purchased and sold as of December 31, 2009 

and 2008, distinguishing between dealer/client activity and credit 
portfolio activity.  
 Notional amount 
 Dealer/client 
 Credit portfolio  
December 31,
  Protection  Protection Protection  Protection
  (in billions) 
 purchased
(a)
  sold 
purchased
(a)(b)
  sold   Total
2009  $ 2,997  $ 2,947  $ 49  $ 1 
 $ 5,994
2008  $ 4,193  $ 4,102  $ 92  $ 1 
 $  8,388
(a) Included $3.0 trillion and $4.0 trillion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively, of notional exposure within protection purchased where the Firm 
has protection sold with identical underlying reference instruments. For a fur-
ther discussion on credit derivatives, see Note 5 on pages 175Œ183 of this 
Annual Report. 
(b) Included $19.7 billion and $34.9 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively, that represented the notional amount for structured portfolio 
protection; the Firm retains the first risk of loss on this portfolio. 
Dealer/client business 
Within the dealer/client business, the Firm actively manages credit 
derivatives by buying and selling credit protection, predominantly on 
corporate debt obligations, according to client demand for credit risk 
protection on the underlying reference instruments. Protection may be 

bought or sold by the Firm on single reference debt instruments 

(ﬁsingle-nameﬂ credit derivatives), portfolios of referenced instru-

ments (ﬁportfolioﬂ credit derivatives) or quoted indices (ﬁindexedﬂ 

credit derivatives). The risk positions are largely matched as the Firm™s 
exposure to a given reference entity under a contract to sell protec-
tion to a counterparty may be offset partially, or entirely, with a 

contract to purchase protection from another counterparty on the 

same underlying instrument. Any residual default exposure and 

spread risk is actively managed by the Firm™s various trading desks.  
At December 31, 2009, the total notional amount of protection 
purchased and sold decreased by $2.4 trillion from year-end 2008. 
The decrease was primarily due to the impact of industry efforts to 
reduce offsetting trade activity.  
Credit portfolio activities  
Management of the Firm™s wholesale exposure is accomplished 
through a number of means including loan syndication and partici-

pations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives, use of master 

netting agreements, and collateral and other risk-reduction tech-
niques. The Firm also manages its wholesale credit exposure by 
purchasing protection through single-name and portfolio credit 

derivatives to manage the credit risk associated with loans, lend-

ing-related commitments and derivative receivables. Gains or losses 

on the credit derivatives are expected to offset the unrealized 

increase or decrease in credit risk on the loans, lending-related 
commitments or derivative receivables. This activity does not reduce 
the reported level of assets on the balance sheet or the level of 
reported offŒbalance sheet commitments, although it does provide 

the Firm with credit risk protection. The Firm also diversifies its 

exposures by selling credit protection, which increases exposure to 
industries or clients where the Firm has little or no client-related 
exposure; however, this activity is not material to the Firm™s overall 

credit exposure.  
Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives 
 Notional amount  
of protection  
purchased and sold 
December 31,  
(in millions) 
 2009 
 2008
 Credit derivatives used to manage:  
     Loans and lending-related commitments
  $ 36,873
  $ 81,227
     Derivative receivables 
  11,958
    10,861
 Total protection purchased
(a)
  $ 48,831
  $ 92,088
 Total protection sold 
  455
   637
 Credit derivatives hedges notional
  $ 48,376
  $ 91,451
 (a) Included $19.7 billion and $34.9 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively, that represented the notional amount for structured portfolio 
protection; the Firm retains the first risk of loss on this portfolio. 
The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for credit portfolio 
management activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under 

U.S. GAAP; these derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains 

and losses recognized in principal transactions revenue. In contrast, 

the loans and lending-related commitments being risk-managed are 

accounted for on an accrual basis. This asymmetry in accounting 
treatment, between loans and lending-related commitments and 
the credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, 

causes earnings volatility that is not representative, in the Firm™s 

view, of the true changes in value of the Firm™s overall credit expo-

sure. The MTM related to the Firm™s credit derivatives used for 

managing credit exposure, as well as the MTM related to the CVA 
(which reflects the credit quality of derivatives counterparty expo-
sure) are included in the gains and losses realized on credit deriva-

tives disclosed in the table below. These results can vary from 

period to period due to market conditions that affect specific posi-

tions in the portfolio.  
Year ended December 31, 
    
(in millions) 
 2009 
 2008 2007
  Hedges of lending-related commitments
(a)
 $ (3,258)
  $ 2,216 $ 350
  CVA and hedges of CVA
(a)
  1,920
  (2,359)
  (363
 ) 
Net gains/(losses)
(b)
 $ (1,338)
  $   (143)
 $  (13
 ) 
(a) These hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. 
(b) Excludes losses of $2.7 billion and gains of $530 million and $373 million for 
the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, of other 

principal transactions revenue that are not associated with hedging activities.
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 113
 Lending-related commitments
 JPMorgan Chase uses lending-related financial instru
ments, such as 
commitments and guarantees, to meet the financing needs of its 
customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments 

represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterpar-

ties draw down on these commitments or the Firm fulfills its obliga-

tion under these guarantees, and the counterparties subsequently 

fail to perform according to the terms of these contracts. 
Wholesale lending-related commitments were $347.2 billion at 
December 31, 2009, compared with $379.9 billion at December 

31, 2008, reflecting lower customer demand. In the Firm™s view, 

the total contractual amount of these wholesale lending-related 

commitments is not representative of the Firm™s actual credit risk 

exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount of 

credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related 

commitments, which is used as the basis for allocating credit risk 

capital to these commitments, the Firm has established a ﬁloan-

equivalentﬂ amount for each commitment; this amount represents 

the portion of the unused commitment or other contingent expo-

sure that is expected, based on average portfolio historical experi-

ence, to become drawn upon in an event of a default by an obligor. 

The loan-equivalent amounts of the Firm™s lending-related com-

mitments were $179.8 billion and $204.3 billion as of December 

31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
Emerging markets country exposure
 The Firm has a comprehensive internal process for me
asuring and 
managing exposures to emerging markets countries. There is no 
common definition of emerging markets, but the Firm generally 

includes in its definition those countries whose sovereign debt 

ratings are equivalent to ﬁA+ﬂ or lower. Exposures to a country 

include all credit-related lending, trading and investment activities, 

whether cross-border or locally funded. In addition to monitoring 

country exposures, the Firm uses stress tests to measure and man-

age the risk of extreme loss associated with sovereign crises. 
The table below presents the Firm™s exposure, by country, to the 
top ten emerging markets. The selection of countries is based solely 

on the Firm™s largest total exposures by country and not the Firm™s 

view of any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions. Exposure 

is reported based on the country where the assets of the obligor, 

counterparty or guarantor are located. Exposure amounts are 

adjusted for collateral and for credit enhancements (e.g., guaran-

tees and letters of credit) provided by third parties; outstandings 

supported by a guarantor located outside the country or backed by 

collateral held outside the country are assigned to the country of 

the enhancement provider. In addition, the effect of credit deriva-

tive hedges and other short credit or equity trading positions are 

reflected in the table below. Total exposure includes exposure to 

both government and private-sector entities in a country. 
 Top 10 emerging markets country exposure 
At December 31, 2009 
Cross-border 
  Total 
(in billions) 
Lending
(a)
 Trading
(b)
 Other
(c)
  Total  Local
(d)
     exposure
 South Korea 
 $ 2.7  $ 1.7  $ 1.3  $ 5.7  $ 3.3 
 $ 9.0
India 
1.5 
2.7 
1.1 
5.3 
0.3 
5.6
Brazil  
1.8 
(0.5) 
1.0 
2.3 
2.2 
4.5
China  
1.8 
0.4 
0.8 
3.0  Š 
3.0
Taiwan 
0.1 
0.8 
0.3 
1.2 
1.8 
3.0
Hong Kong 
1.1 
0.2 
1.3 
2.6  Š 
2.6
Mexico 
1.2 
0.8 
0.4 
2.4  Š 
2.4
Chile  
0.8 
0.6 
0.5 
1.9  Š 
1.9
Malaysia 
0.1 
1.3 
0.3 
1.7 
0.2 
1.9
South Africa  
0.4 
0.8 
0.5 
1.7  Š 
1.7
 At December 31, 2008 
Cross-border 
     Total 
(in billions) 
Lending
(a)
 Trading
(b)
 Other
(c)
  Total  Local
(d)
   exposure
 South Korea 
 $ 2.9  $ 1.6  $ 0.9  $ 5.4  $ 2.3 
 $ 7.7
India 
2.2  2.8 
0.9 
5.9 
0.6 
6.5
China 
1.8  1.6 
0.3 
3.7 
0.8 
4.5
Brazil 
1.8  Š 
0.5 
2.3 
1.3 
3.6
Taiwan 
0.1  0.2 
0.3 
0.6 
2.5 
3.1
Hong Kong 
1.3  0.3 
1.2 
2.8  Š 
2.8
United Arab Emirates 
1.8  0.7  Š 
2.5  Š 
2.5
Mexico 
1.9  0.3 
0.3 
2.5  Š 
2.5
South Africa 
0.9  0.5 
0.4 
1.8  Š 
1.8
Russia 
1.3  0.2 
0.3 
1.8  Š 
1.8
 (a) Lending includes loans and accrued interest receivable, interest-bearing deposits with banks, acceptances, other monetary assets, issued letters of credit net of participations, and 
undrawn commitments to extend credit. 
(b) Trading includes: (1) issuer exposure on cross-border debt and equity instruments, held both in trading and investment accounts and adjusted for the impact of issuer hedges, including 
credit derivatives; and (2) counterparty exposure on derivative and foreign exchange contracts as well as securities financing trades (resale agreements and securities borrowed). 
(c) Other represents mainly local exposure funded cross-border, including capital investments in local entities.
 (d) Local exposure is defined as exposure to a country denominated in local currency and booked locally. Any exposure not meeting these criteria is defined as cross-border exposure. 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
114
 CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO  
JPMorgan Chase™s consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential 
mortgages, home equity loans, credit cards, auto loans, student 

loans and business banking loans, with a primary focus on serving 

the prime consumer credit market. The portfolio also includes home 
equity loans and lines of credit secured by junior liens, mortgage 
loans with interest-only payment options to predominantly prime 

borrowers, as well as certain payment-option loans acquired from 
Washington Mutual that may result in negative amortization.  
A substantial portion of the consumer loans acquired in the Wash-
ington Mutual transaction were identified as credit-impaired based 

on an analysis of high-risk characteristics, including product type, 

loan-to-value ratios, FICO scores and delinquency status. These 

purchased credit-impaired loans are accounted for on a pool basis, 

and the pools are considered to be performing. At the time of the 

acquisition, these loans were recorded at fair value, including an 

estimate of losses that were expected to be incurred over the esti-

mated remaining lives of the loan pools. Therefore, no allowance for 

loan losses was recorded for these loans as of the transaction date. 

In 2009, management concluded that it was probable that higher 

expected future credit losses for certain pools of the purchased 

credit-impaired portfolio would result in a decrease in expected 

future cash flows for these pools. As a result, an allowance for loan 

losses of $1.6 billion was established.

The credit performance of the consumer portfolio acr
oss the entire 
product spectrum continues to be negatively affected by the eco-
nomic environment. Higher unemployment and weaker overall 

economic conditions have led to a significant increase in the number 

of loans charged off, while continued weak housing prices have 

driven a significant increase in the severity of loss recognized on real 

estate loans that default. Delinquencies and nonperforming loans 

continued to increase in 2009. The increases in these credit quality 

metrics were due, in part, to foreclosure moratorium programs, 

which ended in early 2009. These moratoriums halted stages of the 

foreclosure process while the U.S. Treasury developed its homeowner 
assistance program (i.e., MHA) and the Firm enhanced its foreclo-

sure-prevention programs. Due to a high volume of foreclosures after 

the moratoriums, processing timelines for foreclosures were elon-

gated by approximately 100 days. Losses related to these loans 

continued to be recognized in accordance with the Firm™s normal 

charge-off practices, but some delinquent loans that would have 

otherwise been foreclosed upon remain in the mortgage and home 

equity loan portfolios. Additional deterioration in the overall eco-

nomic environment, including continued deterioration in the labor 

and residential real estate markets, could cause delinquencies and 

losses to increase beyond the Firm™s current expectations. 
Since mid-2007, the Firm has taken actions to reduce risk exposure 
to consumer loans by tightening both underwriting and loan qualifi-

cation standards for both real estate and non-real estate lending 

products. For residential real estate lending, tighter income verifica-

tion, more conservative collateral valuation, reduced loan-to-value 

maximums, and higher FICO and custom risk score requirements are 

just some of the actions taken to date to mitigate risk related to new 

originations. The Firm believes that these actions have better aligned 

loan pricing with the underlying credit risk of the loans. In addition, 

originations of subprime mortgage loans, stated income and broker-

originated mortgage and home equity loans have been eliminated 

entirely to further reduce originations with high-risk characteristics. 

The Firm has never originated option adjustable-rate mortgages. The 

tightening of underwriting criteria for auto loans has resulted in the 

reduction of both extended-term and high loan-to-value financing. 
As a further action to reduce risk associated with lending-related 
commitments, the Firm has reduced or canceled certain lines of 

credit as permitted by law. For example, the Firm may reduce or 

close home equity lines of credit when there are significant decreases 

in the value of the underlying property or when there has been a 

demonstrable decline in the creditworthiness of the borrower. Simi-

larly, certain inactive credit card lines have been closed and a num-

ber of active credit card lines have been reduced. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 115
 The following table presents managed consumer creditŒrelated information (including RFS, CS and residential real estate loans reported in the 
Corporate/Private Equity segment) for the dates indicated. For further information about the Firm™s nonaccrual and charge-off accounting policies, 
see Note 13 on pages 200Œ204 of this Annual Report. 
Consumer portfolio  
As of or for the year ended  
December 31, 
  Credit exposure 
  Nonperforming
   loans
(i)(j)
  90 days or more 
  past due and  
  still accruing
(j) 
   Net charge-offs 
     Average annual 
   net charge-off rate
(k)
  
 (in millions, except ratios)
  2009
  2008
2009
2008
2009
2008
 2009
2008
2009
2008
Consumer loans Œ excluding  
purchased credit-impaired 
loans and loans held-for-sale
    
Home equity Œ senior lien
(a)
 $      27,376
$     29,793
    $    477
$   291
$      Š
$       Š
 $      234
$       86
  0.80%
   0.33%
 Home equity Œ junior lien
(b)
 74,049
84,542
1,188
1,103
ŠŠ 4,448
2,305
5.62
 3.12 
Prime mortgage  
66,892
72,266
4,355
1,895
ŠŠ 1,894
526
2.74
 1.02 
Subprime mortgage  
12,526
15,330
3,248
2,690
ŠŠ 1,648
933
11.86
 6.10 
Option ARMs  
8,536
9,018
312
10
ŠŠ 63
Š0.71
 Š 
Auto loans
(c)
 46,031
42,603
177
148
ŠŠ
 627
568
1.44
 1.30 
Credit card Œ reported
(d)(e)
 78,786
104,746
34 3,481
2,649
 9,634
4,556
11.07
 5.47 
All other loans 
31,700
33,715
900
430
542
463
 1,285
459
3.88
 1.58 
Total consumer loans
 345,896
392,013
 10,660
6,571
4,023
3,112
 19,833
9,433
5.45
 2.90 
Consumer loans Œ purchased 
credit-impaired
(f)
    
Home equity 
26,520
28,555
NA
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
NA
 NA 
Prime mortgage  
19,693
21,855
NA
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
NA
 NA 
Subprime mortgage  
5,993
6,760
NA
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
NA
 NA 
Option ARMs  
29,039
31,643
NA
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
NA
 NA 
Total consumer loans Œ pur-
chased credit-impaired
 81,245
88,813
NA
NA
NA
NA
 NA
NA
NA
 NA 
Total consumer loans Œ  
retained
 427,141
480,826
10,660
6,571
4,023
3,112
 19,833
9,433
4.41
 2.71 
Loans held-for-sale 
2,142
2,028
ŠŠŠŠ ŠŠŠ Š 
Total consumer loans Œ  
reported
 429,283
482,854
10,660
6,571
4,023
3,112
 19,833
9,433
4.41
 2.71 
Credit card Œ securitized
(g)
 84,626
85,571
ŠŠ2,385
1,802
 6,443
3,612
7.55
 4.53 
Total consumer loans Œ  

   managed
 513,909
568,425
10,660
6,571
6,408
4,914
 26,276
13,045
4.91
 3.06 
Total consumer loans Œ  
   managed Œ excluding  
   purchased credit-impaired
    loans
(f)
 432,664
479,612
 10,660
6,571
6,408
4,914
 26,276
13,045
5.85
 3.22 
Consumer lending-related 
commitments: 
   
Home equity Œ senior lien
(a)(h)
 19,246
27,998
   
Home equity Œ junior lien
(b)(h)
 37,231
67,745
   
Prime mortgage  
1,654
5,079
   
Subprime mortgage  
ŠŠ   
Option ARMs  
ŠŠ   
Auto loans  
5,467
4,726
   
Credit card
(h)
 569,113
623,702
   
All other loans 
11,229
12,257
   
Total lending-related  

   commitments
 643,940
741,507
   
Total consumer credit  
portfolio
 $1,157,849
$1,309,932
   
Memo: Credit card Œ managed 
$   163,412
$   190,317
  $         3
$       
4$ 5,866
$  4,451
 $ 16,077
$  8,168
  9.33%
   5.01%
 (a) Represents loans where JPMorgan Chase holds the first security interest on the property. 
(b) Represents loans where JPMorgan Chase holds a security interest that is subordinate in rank to other liens.  
(c) Excludes operating lease-related assets of $2.9 billion and $2.2 billion for December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(d) Includes $1.0 billion of loans at December 31, 2009, held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust, which were consolidated onto the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets at 
fair value during the second quarter of 2009. 
(e) Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts. 

(f)  Charge-offs are not recorded on purchased credit-impaired loans until actual losses exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase accounting adjustments at the 
time of acquisition. To date, no charge-offs have been recorded for these loans. If charge-offs were reported comparable to the non-credit impaired portfolio, life-to-date 
principal charge-offs would have been $16.7 billion. 
(g) Represents securitized credit card receivables. For a further discussion of credit card securitizations, see CS on pages 72Œ74 of this Annual Report.  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
116
 (h) The credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total available lines of credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, and does not 
anticipate, that all available lines of credit would be utilized at the same time. For credit card commitments and home equity commitments (if certain conditions are met), 
the Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by providing the borrower prior notice or, in some cases, without notice as permitted by law. 
(i) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, nonperforming loans excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $9.0 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively; and 
(2) student loans that are 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, of $542 

million and $437 million, respectively. These amounts are excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. In addition, the Firm™s policy is generally to exempt credit card 
loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance. Under guidance issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, credit 

card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification about a specified event 
(e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), whichever is earlier. 
(j)  

˘ˇˆ˙˝˛
˘˘˘˘˘ˆˆ˚

ˆ˘˝˜ ˘!˘ˆ"˙˘˝
(k)  Average consumer loans held-for-sale and loans 
at fair value were $2.2 billion and $2.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These 
amounts were excluded when calculating the net charge-off rates.  
The following table presents consumer nonperforming assets by business segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.  
 Consumer nonperforming assets 
  2009 
   2008 
  Assets acquired 
in loan satisfactions 
 Assets acquired 
in loan satisfactions 
 As of December 31,  
(in millions) 
Nonperforming 
loans 
Real estate 
owned 
Other 
Nonperforming 
assets 
Nonperforming 
loans 
Real estate 
owned 
Other 
Nonperform
ing 
assets 
Retail Financial Services
(a)
  $10,611  $ 1,154 $ 99  $11,864 
 $ 6,548  $ 2,183  $ 110  $ 8,841
Card Services
(a)
   3   Š  Š   3 
  4   Š   Š   4
Corporate/Private Equity 
  46   2  Š   48 
  19   1   Š   20
Total 
 $10,660  $ 1,156 $ 99  $11,915 
 $ 6,571  $ 2,184  $ 110  $ 8,865
(a) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, nonperforming loans and assets excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $9.0 billion and $3.0 billion, respec-
tively; (2) real estate owned insured by U.S. government agencies of $579 million and $364 million, respectively; and (3) student loans that are 90 days past due and still ac-
cruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, of $542 million and $437 million, respectively. These amounts are 
excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. In addition, the Firm™s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted 

by regulatory guidance. Under guidance issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which 
the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification about a specified event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), whichever is earlier. 
The following discussion relates to the specific loan product and 
lending-related categories within the consumer portfolio. Purchased 

credit-impaired loans are excluded from individual loan product 

discussions and addressed separately below.   
Home equity: 
Home equity loans at December 31, 2009 were 
$101.4 billion, a decrease of $12.9 billion from year-end 2008. The 
decrease primarily reflected lower loan originations, coupled with 

loan paydowns and charge-offs. The 2009 provision for credit 

losses for the home equity portfolio included net increases of $2.1 

billion to the allowance for loan losses, reflecting the impact of the 

weak housing prices and higher unemployment. Senior lien nonper-

forming loans increased from the prior year due to the weak eco-

nomic environment, while junior lien nonperforming loans were 

relatively unchanged. Net charge-offs have increased from the prior 

year due to higher frequency and severity of losses.  
Mortgage: 
Mortgage loans at December 31, 2009, which include 
prime mortgages, subprime mortgages, adjustable-rate mortgages 
(ﬁoption ARMsﬂ) acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction 

and mortgage loans held-for-sale, were $88.3 billion, representing 

an $8.5 billion decrease from year-end 2008. The decrease is due 

to lower prime mortgage loans retained in the portfolio and higher 

loan charge-offs, as well as the run-off of the subprime and option 

ARM portfolios. Net charge-offs have increased from the prior year 

across all segments of the mortgage portfolio due to both higher 
frequency and a significant increase in the severity of losses.

 Prime mortgages of $67.3 billion decreased $5.2 billion from 
December 31, 2008. The 2009 provision for credit losses included a 
net increase of $1.0 billion to the allowance for loan losses reflect-

ing the impact of the weak economic environment. Early-stage 
delinquencies improved in the latter part of the year, while late-
stage delinquencies have increased as a result of prior foreclosure 

moratoriums and ongoing trial modification activity, driving an 
increase in nonperforming loans. 
Subprime mortgages of $12.5 billion decreased $2.8 billion 
from December 31, 2008, as a result of paydowns, discontinua-

tion of new originations and charge-offs on delinquent loans. 

The 2009 provision for credit losses included a net increase of 
$625 million to the allowance for loan losses, reflecting the 
impact of high loss severities driven by declining home prices. 
Option ARMs of $8.5 billion represent less than 5% of non-
purchased credit-impaired real estate loans and were $482 million 

lower than December 31, 2008, due to run-off of the portfolio. This 

portfolio is primarily comprised of loans with low loan-to-value 

ratios and high borrower FICOs. Accordingly, the Firm currently 

expects substantially lower losses on this portfolio when compared 

with the purchased credit-impaired option ARM portfolio. The 

cumulative amount of unpaid interest added to the unpaid principal 

balance due to negative amortization of option ARMs was $78 

million at December 31, 2009.
 New originations of option ARMs 
were discontinued by Washington Mutual prior to the date of 
JPMorgan Chase™s acquisition of Washington Mutual. The Firm has 

not originated, and does not originate, option ARMs.
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 117
 Auto loans: 
As of December 31, 2009, auto loans were $46.0 
billion, an increase of $3.4 billion from year-end 2008, partially 
as a result of new originations in connection with the U.S. gov-

ernment™s ﬁcash for clunkersﬂ program in the third quarter. 

Delinquent loans were slightly lower than the prior year. Loss 

severities also decreased as a result of higher used-car prices 

nationwide. The auto loan portfolio reflects a high concentration 

of prime quality credits.  
Credit card: 
JPMorgan Chase analyzes its credit card portfolio 
on a managed basis, which includes credit card receivables on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets and those receivables sold to inves-

tors through securitizations. Managed credit card receivables 

were $163.4 billion at December 31, 2009, a decrease of $26.9 

billion from year-end 2008, reflecting lower charge volume and a 

higher level of charge-offs.   
The 30-day managed delinquency rate increased to 6.28% at 
December 31, 2009, from 4.97% at December 31, 2008, and the 

managed credit card net charge-off rate increased to 9.33% in 

2009, from 5.01% in 2008. These increases reflect the current 

weak economic environment, especially in metropolitan statistical 

areas (ﬁMSAsﬂ) experiencing the greatest housing price deprecia-

tion and highest unemployment and to the credit performance of 

loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction. The allow-

ance for loan losses was increased by $2.0 billion for 2009, 

reflecting a provision for loan losses of $2.4 billion, partially offset 

by the reclassification of $298 million related to an issuance and 

retention of securities from the Chase Issuance Trust. The man-

aged credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned, 

largely rewards-based portfolio that has good U.S. geographic 

diversification.  
Managed credit card receivables
, excluding the Washington 
Mutual portfolio, were $143.8 billion at December 31, 2009, 
compared with $162.1 billion at December 31, 2008. The 30-day 
managed delinquency rate was 5.52% at December 31, 2009, up 

from 4.36% at December 31, 2008; the managed credit card net 

charge-off rate, excluding the Washington Mutual portfolio 

increased to 8.45% in 2009 from 4.92% in 2008.  
Managed credit card receivables of the Washington Mutual 
portfolio were $19.7 billion at December 31, 2009, compared 

with $28.3 billion at December 31, 2008. Excluding the impact of 

the purchase accounting adjustments related to the Washington 

Mutual transaction and the consolidation of the Washington 
Mutual Master Trust, the Washington Mutual portfolio™s 30-day 

managed delinquency rate was 12.72% at December 31, 2009, 

compared with 9.14% at December 31, 2008, and the 2009 net 

charge-off rate was 18.79%. 
All other: 
All other loans primarily include business banking 
loans (which are highly collateralized loans, often with personal 
loan guarantees), student loans, and other secured and unse-

cured consumer loans. As of December 31, 2009, other loans, 

including loans held-for-sale, were $33.6 billion, down $2.0 

billion from year-end 2008, primarily as a result of lower business 

banking loans. The 2009 provision for credit losses reflected a net 

increase of $580 million to the allowance for loan losses and an 

increase in net charge-offs of $826 million related to the business 

banking and student loan portfolios, reflecting the impact of the 

weak economic environment. 
Purchased credit-impaired: 
Purchased credit-impaired loans 
were $81.2 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $88.8 
billion at December 31, 2008. This portfolio represents loans 

acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction that were re-

corded at fair value at the time of acquisition. The fair value of 

these loans included an estimate of credit losses expected to be 

realized over the remaining lives of the loans, and therefore no 

allowance for loan losses was recorded for these loans as of the 

acquisition date.  
The Firm regularly updates the amount of expected loan principal 
and interest cash flows to be collected for these loans. Probable 

decreases in expected loan principal cash flows trigger the recog-

nition of impairment through the provision for loan losses. Prob-

able and significant increases in expected loan principal cash 

flows would first result in the reversal of any allowance for loan 

losses. Any remaining increase in the expected principal cash 

flows would be recognized prospectively in interest income over 

the remaining lives of the underlying loans. 
During 2009, management concluded that it was probable that 
higher expected principal credit losses for the purchased credit-

impaired prime mortgage and option ARM pools would result in a 

decrease in expected cash flows for these pools. As a result, an 

allowance for loan losses of $1.1 billion and $491 million, respec-

tively, was established for these pools. The credit performance of 

the other pools has generally been consistent with the estimate of 

losses at the acquisition date. Accordingly, no impairment for 

these other pools has been recognized.  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
118
 Concentrations of credit risk Œ consumer loans other than purchased credit-impaired loans
 Following is tabular information and, where appropri
ate, supplemental discussions about certain concentrations of credit risk for the Firm™s 
consumer loans, other than purchased credit-impaired loans, including: 
· Geographic distribution of loans, including certain residential real estate loans with high loan-to-value ratios; and 
· Loans that are 30+ days past due. 
The following tables present the geographic distribution of managed consumer credit outstandings by product as of December 31, 2009 and 
2008, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans. 
 Consumer loans by geographic region Œ excluding purchased credit-impaired loans 
December 31, 
2009
 (in billions) 
Home  
equity Œ 
senior lien 
Home  
equity Œ 
junior lien 
Prime 
mortgage 
Subprime 
mortgage 
Option 
ARMs 
Total  
home loan 
portfolio 
Auto 
Card 
reported 
All other 
loans 
Total  
consumer 
loansŒ 
reported 
Card  
securitized 
Total
 consumer 
loansŒ
 managed
 California  
 $ 3.6  $ 16.9  $  19.1  $ 1.7  $  3.8 $  45.1  $  4.4  $  11.0  $  1.8  $ 62.3  $  11.4  $  73.7
 New York  
3.4 12.4 9.2 1.5 0.9 27.4 3.8 6.0 4.2 41.4 6.7 48.1
 Texas  
4.2 2.7 2.5 0.4 0.2 10.0 4.3 5.6 3.8 23.7 6.5 30.2
 Florida  
1.2 4.1 6.0 1.9 0.7 13.9 1.8 5.2 0.9 21.8 4.8 26.6
 Illinois  
1.8 4.8 3.4 0.6 0.4 11.0 2.4 3.9 2.4 19.7 4.9 24.6
 Ohio  
2.3 1.9 0.8 0.3  Š 5.3 3.2 3.1 2.9 14.5 3.4 17.9
 New Jersey  
0.8 3.8 2.3 0.6 0.3 7.8 1.8 3.0 0.9 13.5 3.6 17.1
 Michigan  
1.3 1.9 1.4 0.3  Š 4.9 2.1 2.4 2.5 11.9 2.9 14.8
 Arizona  
1.6 3.6 1.6 0.3 0.1 7.2 1.5 1.7 1.6 12.0 2.1 14.1
 Pennsylvania  
0.2 1.2 0.7 0.4 0.1 2.6 2.0 2.8 0.8 8.2 3.2 11.4
 Washington 
0.9 2.4 1.9 0.3 0.4 5.9 0.6 1.5 0.4 8.4 1.5 9.9
 Colorado  
0.4 1.7 1.8 0.2 0.2 4.3 1.0 1.6 0.8 7.7 2.1 9.8
 All other  
5.7 16.6 16.6 4.0 1.4 44.3 17.1 31.0 10.6 103.0 31.5 134.5
 Total 
 $  27.4 $  74.0 $    67.3 $   12.5 $    8.5 $   189.7 $  46.0 $  78.8 $  33.6 $ 348.1 $  84.6 $   432.7
  December 31, 2008
 (in billions) 
Home  
equity Œ 
senior lien 
Home  
equity Œ 
junior lien 
Prime 
mortgage 
Subprime 
mortgage 
Option 
 ARMs 
Total  
home 
loan 
portfolio Auto 
Card 
reported 
All other 
loans 
Total  
consumer
  loans Œ 
reported 
Card  
securitized 
Total 
 consumer 
loans Œ
managed
 California   $  3.9  $  19.3  $  22.8  $  2.2  $  3.8  $  52.0  $  4.7  $  14.8  $  2.0  $  73.5  $  12.5  $  86.0 
New York  
3.3 13.0 10.4 1.7 0.9 29.3 3.7 8.3 4.7 46.0 6.6   52.6 
Texas  
5.0 3.1 2.7 0.4 0.2 11.4 3.8 7.4 4.1 26.7 6.1   32.8 
Florida  
1.3 5.0 6.0 2.3 0.9 15.5 1.5 6.8 0.9 24.7 5.2   29.9 
Illinois  
1.9 5.3 3.3 0.7 0.3 11.5 2.2 5.3 2.5 21.5 4.6   26.1 
Ohio  
2.6 2.0 0.7 0.4  Š 5.7 3.3 4.1 3.3 16.4 3.4   19.8 
New Jersey  
0.8 4.2 2.5 0.8 0.3 8.6 1.6 4.2 0.9 15.3 3.6   18.9 
Michigan  
1.4 2.2 1.3 0.4  Š 5.3 1.5 3.4 2.8 13.0 2.8   15.8 
Arizona  
1.7 4.2 1.6 0.4 0.2 8.1 1.6 2.3 1.9 13.9 1.8   15.7 
Pennsylvania  0.2 1.4 0.7 0.5 0.1 2.9 1.7 3.9 0.7 9.2 3.2   12.4 
Washington 
1.0 2.8 2.3 0.3 0.5 6.9 0.6 2.0 0.4 9.9 1.6   11.5 
Colorado  
0.5 1.9 1.9 0.3 0.3 4.9 0.9 2.1 0.9 8.8 2.1   10.9 
All other  
6.2 20.1 16.3 4.9 1.5 49.0 15.5 40.1 10.5 115.1 32.1   147.2
 Total 
 $  29.8  $  84.5  $  72.5  $  15.3  $  9.0  $  211.1  $  42.6  $ 104.7  $  35.6  $  394.0  $  85.6  $  479.6
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 119
  The following table presents the geographic distribu
tion of certain residential real estate loans with current estimated combined loan-to-value 
ratios (ﬁLTVsﬂ) in excess of 100% as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the Washington 
Mutual transaction. The estimated collateral values used to calculate the current estimated combined LTV ratios in the following table were 

derived from a nationally recognized home price index measured at the MSAs level. Because home price indices can have wide variability and 

such derived real estate values do not represent actual appraised loan-level collateral values, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and 

should therefore be viewed as estimates.  
Geographic distribution of residential real estate loans with current estimated combined LTVs > 100%
(a)
 December 31, 2009
  
(in billions, except ratios) 
Home equity Œ  
junior lien
(c)
 Prime  
mortgage
(c)(d)
 Subprime  
mortgage
(c)
 Total 
 % of 
  total loans
 (e)
 California  
 $ 8.3  $ 9.4  $ 1.1  $ 18.8   50% 
New York  
  2.3   1.3   0.3   3.9   17 
Arizona  
  2.8   1.1   0.2   4.1   75 
Florida  
  2.8   3.9   1.3   8.0   67 
Michigan 
  1.3   0.9   0.2   2.4   67 
All other 
  8.1   6.1   1.8   16.0   22 
Total combined LTV >100%  $ 25.6  $ 22.7  $ 4.9  $ 53.2   35% 
       
As a percentage of total loans 
    35%     34%     39%     35%   
Total portfolio average combined LTV at origination 
  74   74   79  
  Total portfolio average current estimated combined LTV
(b)
   97   93   101  
   December 31, 2008
(f)
 (in billions, except ratios) 
Home equity Œ  
junior lien
(c)
 Prime  
mortgage
(c)(d)
 Subprime  
mortgage
(c)
 Total 
 % of 
  total loans
 (e)
 California  
 $ 8.4  $ 7.9  $ 1.3  $ 17.6   40% 
New York  
  1.8   0.6   0.3   2.7   11 
Arizona 
  2.9   0.9   0.2   4.0   65 
Florida  
  2.9   2.9   1.5   7.3   55 
Michigan 
  1.3   0.6   0.3   2.2   56 
All other 
  7.5   3.3   1.6   12.4   16 
Total combined LTV >100% 
 $ 24.8  $ 16.2  $ 5.2  $ 46.2   27% 
     
  
As a percentage of total loans 
29% 
22% 
34% 
27%   
Total portfolio average combined LTV at origination 
75 
72 
79 
   
Total portfolio average current estimated combined LTV
(b)
 91 
83 
91 
   
(a)
 Home equityŒjunior lien, prime mortgage and subprime mortgage loans with current estimated combined LTVs greater than 80% up to and including 100% were 
$17.9 billion, $17.6 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009. 
(b)
 The average current estimated combined LTV ratio reflects the outstanding balance at the balance sheet date, divided by the estimated current property value. Current 
property values are estimated based on home valuation models utilizing nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates. 
(c)
 Represents combined loan-to-value, which considers all available lien positions related to the property. 
(d)
 Includes mortgage loans insured by the U.S. government agencies of $5.3 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
(e)
 Represents total loans of the product types noted in this table by geographic location.  
(f)
 December 2008 estimated collateral values for the heritage Washington Mutual portfolio have been changed to conform to values derived from the home price index used 
for the JPMorgan Chase portfolio. Home price indices generally have different valuation methods and assumptions and therefore can yield a wide range of estimates.  
 Top 5 States Consumer Loans - Managed(at December 31, 2008)California
TexasTexasNew York52.7%17.9%6.8%Florida11.0%6.2%5.4%IllinoisIllinoisAll other(a)
(a) Excluding the purchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction.
California
Texas
TexasNew York53.1%17.0%7.0%Florida11.1%6.1%5.7%Illinois
IllinoisAll otherTop 5 States Consumer Loans - Managed(at December 31, 2009)(a)

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
120
  The consumer credit portfolio is geographically diverse. The 
greatest concentration of loans is in California, which represents 
18% of total on-balance sheet consumer loans and 24% of total 
residential real estate loans at December 2009, compared to 

19% and 25%, respectively, at December 2008.  Of the total on-

balance sheet consumer loan portfolio, $149.4 billion, or 43%, 

are concentrated in California, New York, Arizona, Florida and 

Michigan at December 2009 compared to $171.1 billion, or 43%, 

at December 2008.   
Declining home prices have had a significant impact on the esti-
mated collateral value underlying the Firm™s residential real estate 
loan portfolio. In general, the delinquency rate for loans with high 

current estimated combined LTV ratios is greater than the delin-
quency rate for loans in which the borrower has equity in the 

collateral.  While a large portion of the loans with current esti-
mated combined LTV ratios greater than 100% continue to pay 
and are current, the continued willingness and ability of these 

borrowers to pay is currently uncertain. Nonperforming loans in 

the residential real estate portfolio totaled $9.6 billion, of which 

64% was greater than 150 days past due at December 31, 2009.  

Of the nonperforming loans that were greater than 150 days past 
due at December 31, 2009, approximately 36% of the unpaid 
principal balance of these loans has been charged-down to 

estimated collateral value. 

  Consumer 30+ day delinquency information
      30+ day delinquent loans     30+ day delinquency rate
 December 31, (in millions, except ratios)
 2009 
2008 
2009 
2008 
Consumer loans Œ excluding purchased credit-impaired loans
(a)
     Home equity Œ senior lien 
 $ 833
  $ 585 
 3.04% 
1.96% 
Home equity Œ junior lien 
  2,515
   2,563 
  3.40
 3.03 
Prime mortgage 
      5,532
(b)
   3,180
(b)
   8.21
(d)
 4.39
(d)
 Subprime mortgage  
  4,232
   3,760 
   33.79
 24.53 
Option ARMs  
  438
   68 
  5.13
 0.75 
Auto loans  
  750
   963 
  1.63
 2.26 
Credit card Œ reported 
  6,093
   5,653 
  7.73
 5.40 
All other loans 
      1,306
(c)
   708
(c)
   3.91
 1.99 
Total consumer loans Œ excluding purchased credit-impaired 
loans Œ reported
  $ 21,699
  $ 17,480 
 6.23% 
4.44% 
Credit card Œ securitized 
  4,174
   3,811 
  4.93
 4.45 
Total consumer loans Œ excluding purchased credit-impaired 
loans Œ managed
  $ 25,873
  $ 21,291 
 5.98% 
 4.44% 
Memo: Credit card Œ managed 
 $ 10,267
  $ 9,464 
  6.28%
 4.97% 
(a)
 The delinquency rate for purchased credit-impaired loans, which is based on the unpaid principal balance, was 27.79% and 17.89% at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively. 
(b)
 Excludes 30+ day delinquent mortgage loans that are insured by U.S. government agencies of $9.7 billion and $3.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respec-
tively. These amounts are excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. 
(c)
 Excludes 30+ day delinquent loans that are 30 days or more past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family 
Education Loan Program, of $942 million and $824 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These amounts are excluded as reimbursement is proceeding 

normally. 
(d)
 The denominator for the calculation of the 30+ day delinquency rate includes: (1) residential real estate loans reported in the Corporate/Private Equity segment; and (2) 
mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies. The 30+ day delinquency rate excluding these loan balances was 11.24% and 5.14% at December 31, 2009 and 
2008, respectively. 
Consumer 30+ day delinquencies have increased to 6.23% of the consumer loan portfolio at December 31, 2009, in comparison to 4.44% at 
December 31, 2008, driven predominately by an increase in residential real estate delinquencies which increased $3.4 billion. Late stage 
delinquencies (150+ days delinquent) increased significantly reflecting the impacts of trial loan modifications and foreclosure moratorium 
backlogs. Losses related to these loans continue to be recognized in accordance with the Firm's normal charge-off practices; as such, these 

loans are reflected at their estimated collateral value. Early stage delinquencies (30 - 89 days delinquent) in the residential real estate portfo-

lios have remained relatively flat year over year.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 121
 Concentrations of credit risk Œ purchased credit-impaired loans  
The following table presents the current estimated combined LTV ratio, as well as the ratio of the carrying value of the underlying loans to the 
current estimated collateral value, for purchased credit-impaired loans. Because such loans were initially measured at fair value, the ratio of the 
carrying value to the current estimated collateral value will be lower than the current estimated combined LTV ratio, which is based on the unpaid 
principal balance. The estimated collateral values used to calculate these ratios were derived from a nationally recognized home price index meas-

ured at the MSA level. Because home price indices can have wide variability, and such derived real estate values do not represent actual appraised 

loan-level collateral values, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates. 
Combined LTV ratios and ratios of carrying values to current estimated collateral values Œ purchased credit-impaired
 December 31, 2009 
 (in billions, except ratios) 
Unpaid principal balance
(b)
 Current estimated  
combined LTV ratio
(c)(d)
 Carrying  
   value
(e)
  Ratio of carrying 
   
value to current 
   estimated 
  collateral value 
Option ARMs
(a)
  $ 37.4  128%  $ 29.0 
98
%(f) 
Home equity 
  32.9  127   26.5 
102
Prime mortgage  
  22.0  121   19.7 
102
(f) 
Subprime mortgage  
  9.0  122   6.0 
81
 December 31, 2008
(g)
 (in billions, except ratios) 
Unpaid principal balance
(b)
 Current estimated  
combined LTV ratio
(c)(d)
 Carrying  
   value
(e)
  Ratio of carrying 
   
value to current 
   estimated 
  collateral value
  Option ARMs  $ 41.6  113%  $ 31.6 
86% 
Home equity 
  39.8  115   28.6 
82 
Prime mortgage  
  25.0  107   21.8 
94 
Subprime mortgage  
  10.3  112   6.8 
73 
(a)  The cumulative amount of unpaid interest that has been added to the unpaid principal balance of option ARMs was $1.9 billion at December 31, 2009. Assuming 
market interest rates, the Firm would expect the following balance of current loans to experience a payment recast:  $6.3 billion in 2010 and $3.9 billion in 2011, of 
which $4.8 billion and $3.7 billion relate to the purchased credit-impaired portfolio. 
(b) Represents the contractual amount of principal owed. 
(c)  Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current property values are estimated based on home 
valuation models utilizing nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates. 
(d) Represents current estimated combined loan-to-value, which considers all available lien positions related to the property. 

(e) Carrying values include the effect of fair value adjustments that were applied to the consumer purchased credit-impaired portfolio at the date of acquisition. 
(f) Ratios of carrying value to current estimated collateral value for the prime mortgage and option ARM portfolios are net of the allowance for loan losses of $1.1 billion 
and $491 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. 
(g) December 2008 estimated collateral values for the heritage Washington Mutual portfolio have been changed to conform to values derived from home price index used 
for the JPMorgan Chase portfolio. Home price indices generally have different valuation methods and assumptions and therefore can yield a wide range of estimates. 
Purchased credit-impaired loans in the states of California and 
Florida represented 54% and 11%, respectively, of total pur-

chased credit-impaired loans at December 31, 2009, compared 

with 53% and 11%, respectively, at December 31, 2008. The 

current estimated combined LTV ratios were 137% and 149% for 

California and Florida loans, respectively, at December 31, 2009, 
compared with 121% and 125%, respectively, at December 31, 
2008. Loan concentrations in California and Florida, as well as 

the continuing decline in housing prices in those states, have 

contributed negatively to both the current estimated combined 

LTV ratio and the ratio of carrying value to current collateral value 
for loans in the purchased credit-impaired portfolio.  
While the carrying value of the purchased credit-impaired loans is 
marginally below the current collateral value of the loans, the 

ultimate performance of this portfolio is highly dependent on the 

borrowers™ behavior and ongoing ability and willingness to con-

tinue to make payments on homes with negative equity as well as 

the cost of alternative housing. The purchased credit-impaired 
portfolio was recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition 
which included an estimate of losses expected to be incurred over 

the estimated remaining lives of the loan pools. During 2009, 

management concluded that it was probable that higher than 

expected future principal credit losses would result in a decrease 

in the expected future cash flows of the prime and option ARM 
pools. As a result an allowance for loan losses of $1.6 billion was 
established. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
122
 Residential real estate loan modification activities:
  During 2009, the Firm reviewed its residential real estate portfolio 
to identify homeowners most in need of assistance, opened new 

regional counseling centers, hired additional loan counselors, 

introduced new financing alternatives, proactively reached out to 

borrowers to offer pre-qualified modifications, and commenced a 

new process to independently review each loan before moving it 

into the foreclosure process. In addition, during the first quarter 

of 2009, the U.S. Treasury introduced the MHA programs, which 

are designed to assist eligible homeowners in a number of ways, 

one of which is by modifying the terms of their mortgages. The 

Firm is participating in the MHA programs while continuing to 

expand its other loss-mitigation efforts for financially distressed 

borrowers who do not qualify for the MHA programs. The MHA 

programs and the Firm™s other loss-mitigation programs for 

financially troubled borrowers generally represent various conces-

sions such as term extensions, rate reductions and deferral of 

principal payments that would have otherwise been required 

under the terms of the original agreement. When the Firm modi-
fies home equity lines of credit in troubled debt restructurings, 

future lending commitments related to the modified loans are 

canceled as part of the terms of the modification. Under all of 

these programs, borrowers must make at least three payments 

under the revised contractual terms during a trial modification 

period and be successfully re-underwritten with income verifica-

tion before their loans can be permanently modified. The Firm™s 

loss-mitigation programs are intended to minimize economic loss 

to the Firm, while providing alternatives to foreclosure. The 

success of these programs is highly dependent on borrowers™ 

ongoing ability and willingness to repay in accordance with the 

modified terms and could be adversely affected by additional 

deterioration in the economic environment or shifts in borrower 

behavior. For both the Firm™s on-balance sheet loans and loans 

serviced for others, approximately 600,000 mortgage modifica-

tions had been offered to borrowers in 2009. Of these, 89,000 

have achieved permanent modification. Substantially all of the 

loans contractually modified to date were modified under the 

Firm™s other loss mitigation programs.
The following table presents information relating to restructured on-balance sheet residential real estate loans for which concessions have 

been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty as of December 31, 2009. Modifications of purchased credit-impaired loans con-

tinue to be accounted for and reported as purchased credit-impaired loans, and the impact of the modification is incorporated into the Firm™s 

quarterly assessment of whether a probable and/or significant change in estimated future principal cash flows has occurred. Modifications of 

loans other than purchased credit-impaired are generally accounted for and reported as troubled debt restructurings. 
Restructured residential real estate loans
(a)
 December 31, 2009
 (in millions) 
 OnŒbalance  
sheet loans 
    Nonperform
ing 
 onŒbalance 
       sheet loans
(d)
  Restructured residential real estate loans Œ excluding  
purchased credit-impaired loans
(b)
     
Home equity Œ senior lien
   $ 168  $ 30 
Home equity Œ junior lien
  222 
43 
Prime mortgage  
 634 
243 
Subprime mortgage  
 1,998 
598 
Option ARMs  
 8 
6 
Total restructured residential real estate loans Œ excluding purchased credit-impaired loans
  $ 3,030  $ 920 
Restructured purchased credit-impaired loans
(c)
    
Home equity 
  $ 453 
NA 
Prime mortgage  
 1,526 
NA 
Subprime mortgage  
 1,954 
NA 
Option ARMs  
 2,972 
NA 
Total restructured purchased credit-impaired loans
   $ 6,905 
NA 
(a)
 Restructured residential real estate loans were immaterial at December 31, 2008. 
(b)
 Amounts represent the carrying value of restructured residential real estate loans. 
(c)
 Amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of restructured purchased credit-impaired loans. 
(d)
 Nonperforming loans modified in a troubled debt restructuring may be returned to accrual status when repayment is reasonably assured and the borrower has made a 
minimum of six payments under the new terms. 
 Real estate owned (ﬁREOﬂ): 
As part of the residential real 
estate foreclosure process, loans are written down to the fair value 
of the underlying real estate asset, less costs to sell. In those in-
stances where the Firm gains title, ownership and possession of 
individual properties at the completion of the foreclosure process, 

these REO assets are managed for prompt sale and disposition at 

the best possible economic value. Any further gains or losses on 

REO assets are recorded as part of other income. Operating ex-
pense, such as real estate taxes and maintenance, are charged to 

other expense. REO assets declined from year-end 2008 as a result 

of the foreclosure moratorium in early 2009 and the subsequent 
increase in loss mitigation activities. It is anticipated that REO 
assets will increase over the next several quarters, as loans moving 
through the foreclosure process are expected to increase. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 123
 Portfolio transfers:
 The Firm regularly evaluates market condi-
tions and overall economic returns and makes an initial determina-
tion as to whether new originations will be held-for-investment or 

sold within the foreseeable future. The Firm also periodically evalu-

ates the expected economic returns of previously originated loans 

under prevailing market conditions to determine whether their 

designation as held-for-sale or held-for-investment continues to be 

appropriate. When the Firm determines that a change in this desig-
nation is appropriate, the loans are transferred to the appropriate 

classification. Since the second half of 2007, all new prime mort-

gage originations that cannot be sold to U.S. government agencies 

and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises have been designated 

as held-for-investment. Prime mortgage loans originated with the 

intent to sell are accounted for at fair value and classified as trad-

ing assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  
JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale 
(risk-rated) and consumer (primarily scored) loan portfolios and 

represents management™s estimate of probable credit losses inherent 

in the Firm™s loan portfolio. Management also computes an allow-
ance for wholesale lending-related commitments using a methodol-
ogy similar to that used for the wholesale loans. During 2009, the 

Firm did not make any significant changes to the methodologies or 
policies described in the following paragraphs. 
Wholesale loans are charged off to the allowance for loan losses when 
it is highly certain that a loss has been realized; this determination 

considers many factors, including the prioritization of the Firm™s claim in 

bankruptcy, expectations of the workout/restructuring of the loan, and 
valuation of the borrower™s equity. Consumer loans, other than pur-
chased credit-impaired loans, are generally charged off to the allowance 

for loan losses upon reaching specified stages of delinquency, in accor-

dance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy. 

For example, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month 

in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days of 
receiving notification about a specified event (e.g., bankruptcy of the 
borrower), whichever is earlier. Residential mortgage products are 

generally charged off to an amount equal to the net realizable value of 

the underlying collateral, no later than the date the loan becomes 180 

days past due. Other consumer products, if collateralized, are generally 

charged off to the net realizable value of the underlying collateral at 

120 days past due. 
Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and 
requires judgment about the effect of matters that are inherently 
uncertain. Assumptions about unemployment rates, housing prices 

and overall economic conditions could have a significant impact on 

the Firm™s determination of loan quality. Subsequent evaluations of 

the loan portfolio, in light of then-prevailing factors, may result in 

significant changes in the allowances for loan losses and lending-
related commitments in future periods. At least quarterly, the allow-
ance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief 

Financial Officer and the Controller of the Firm and discussed with the 

Risk Policy and Audit Committees of the Board of Directors of the 

Firm. As of December 31, 2009, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allow-

ance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorb 

losses inherent in the portfolio, including those not yet identifiable).  
For a further discussion of the components of the allowance for credit 
losses, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 
135Œ139 and Note 14 on pages 204Œ206 of this Annual Report.  
The allowance for credit losses increased by $8.7 billion from the 
prior year to $32.5 billion. Excluding held-for-sale loans, loans carried 
at fair value, and purchased credit-impaired consumer loans, the 

allowance for loan losses represented 5.51% of loans at December 
31, 2009, compared with 3.62% at December 31, 2008. 
The consumer allowance for loan losses increased by $7.8 billion 
from the prior year, primarily as a result of an increased allowance for 

loan losses in residential real estate and credit card. The increase 

included additions to the allowance for loan losses of $5.2 billion, 

driven by higher estimated losses for residential mortgage and home 

equity loans as the weak labor market and weak overall economic 

conditions have resulted in increased delinquencies, and continued 

weak housing prices have driven a significant increase in loss severity. 

The allowance for loan losses related to credit card increased $2.0 

billion from the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the credit 

environment. The increase reflects an addition of $2.4 billion through 

the provision for loan losses, partially offset by the reclassification of 

$298 million related to the issuance and retention of securities from 

the Chase Issuance Trust. 
The wholesale allowance for loan losses increased by $600 million 
from December 31, 2008, reflecting the effect of a continued weak-
ening credit environment.  
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the Firm™s process of extend-
ing credit an allowance for lending-related commitments is held for 
the Firm, which is reported in other liabilities. The allowance is com-
puted using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale 

loan portfolio, modified for expected maturities and probabilities of 

drawdown. For a further discussion on the allowance for lending-

related commitments, see Note 14 on page 204Œ206 of this Annual 
Report.  
The allowance for lending-related commitments for both wholesale 
and consumer, which is reported in other liabilities, was $939 million 

and $659 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The 

increase reflects downgrades within the wholesale portfolio due to 

the continued weakening credit environment during 2009. 
The credit ratios in the table below are based on retained loan bal-
ances, which exclude loans held-for-sale and loans accounted for at 

fair value. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, wholesale retained 

loans were $200.1 billion and $248.1 billion, respectively; and con-

sumer retained loans were $427.1 billion and $480.8 billion, respec-

tively. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, average 

wholesale retained loans were $223.0 billion and $219.6 billion, 

respectively; and average consumer retained loans were $449.2 

billion and $347.4 billion, respectively. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
124
 Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses 
 2009 
 2008 
 Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
Wholesale  Consumer  Total Wholesale  Consumer   Total
  Allowance for loan losses: 
   
    
Beginning balance at January 1, 
 $ 6,545  $ 16,619  $ 23,164 
 $ 3,154  $ 6,080 $    9,234 
Gross charge-offs 
  3,226   20,792   24,018 
  521   10,243 10,764 
Gross (recoveries) 
  (94)   (959)   (1,053) 
  (119)   (810) 
(929) 
Net charge-offs 
  3,132   19,833   22,965 
  402   9,433 
9,835 
Provision for loan losses:   
Provision excluding accounting conformity 
  3,684   28,051   31,735 
  2,895   16,765 19,660 
Accounting conformity
(a)
   Š   Š   Š 
  641   936 
1,577 
Total provision for loan losses 
  3,684   28,051   31,735 
  3,536   17,701 21,237 
Acquired allowance resulting from Washington Mutual 
transaction 
  Š   Š   Š 
  229   2,306 
2,535 
Other
(b)
         48    (380)    (332) 
   28     (35) 
(7) 
Ending balance at December 31 
  $  7,145  $  24,457  $  31,602 
 $  6,545  $  16,619 $  23,164 
Components: 
 Asset-specific
(c)(d)
   $ 2,046  $ 996  $ 3,042 
 $ 712  $ 379 $    1,091 
Formula-based 
   5,099   21,880   26,979 
  5,833   16,240 22,073 
Purchased credit-impaired 
   Š   1,581   1,581 
  Š   Š 
Š Total allowance for loan losses 
  $ 7,145  $ 24,457  $ 31,602 
 $ 6,545  $ 16,619  $   23,164 
Allowance for lending-related commitments:
 Beginning balance at January 1, 
  $ 634  $ 25  $ 659 
 $ 835  $ 15 $       850 
Provision for lending-related commitments 
      Provision excluding accounting conformity 
  290   (10)   280 
  (214) 
(1) 
(215) 
Accounting conformity
(a)
   Š   Š   Š 
  5 
(48) 
(43) 
Total provision for lending-related commitments    290   (10)   280 
  (209) 
(49) 
(258) 
Acquired allowance resulting from Washington Mutual 
transaction 
  Š   Š   Š 
  Š 66 66 
Other
(b)
   3   (3)   Š 
  8 (7) 1 
Ending balance at December 31 
 $ 927  $ 12  $ 939 
 $ 634  $ 25 $       659 
Components: 
 Asset-specific 
 $ 297  $ Š  $ 297 
 $ 29  $ Š $         29 
Formula-based 
  630   12   642 
  605 25 
630 
Total allowance for lending-related commitments  $ 927  $ 12  $ 939 
 $ 634  $ 25 $       659 
Total allowance for credit losses 
 $ 8,072  $ 24,469  $ 32,541 
 $ 7,179  $ 16,644 $  23,823 
Credit ratios: 
      Allowance for loan losses to retained loans 
 3.57%   5.73%   5.04% 
    2.64%   3.46%  3.18%
 Net charge-off rates
(e)
  1.40   4.41   3.42 
  0.18          2.71  1.73
Credit ratios excluding home lending purchased 
credit-impaired loans and loans held by the 
Washington Mutual Master Trust 
     Allowance for loan losses to retained loans
(f)
  3.57   6.63   5.51 
      2.64    4.24  3.62 
(a) Related to the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 
(b) Predominantly includes a reclassification in 2009 related to the issuance and retention of securities from the Chase Issuance Trust, as well as reclassifications of allowance 
balances related to business transfers between wholesale and consumer businesses in the first quarter of 2008. 
(c)  Relates to risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring. 

(d) The asset-specific consumer allowance for loan losses includes troubled debt restructuring reserves of $754 million and $258 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. 
(e)  Charge-offs are not recorded on purchased credit-impaired loans until actual losses exceed estimated losses that were recorded as purchase accounting adjustments at the time of 
acquisition. 
(f)  Excludes the impact of purchased credit-impaired loans that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master 
Trust, which were consolidated onto the Firm™s balance sheet at fair value during the second quarter of 2009. As of December 31, 2009, an allowance for loan losses of $1.6 
billion was recorded for the purchased credit-impaired loans, which has also been excluded from applicable ratios. No allowance was recorded for the loans that were con-
solidated from the Washington Mutual Master Trust as of December 31, 2009. To date, no charge-offs have been recorded for any of these loans. 
The following table includes a credit ratio excluding the following 
items: home lending purchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the 
Washington Mutual transaction; and credit card loans held by the 

Washington Mutual Master Trust, which were consolidated onto the 

Firm™s balance sheet at fair value during the second quarter of 2009. 

The purchased credit-impaired loans were accounted for at fair value 

on the acquisition date, which incorporated management™s estimate, 
as of that date, of credit losses over the remaining life of the portfo-
lio. Accordingly, no allowance for loan losses was recorded for these 

loans as of the acquisition date. Subsequent evaluations of estimated 
credit deterioration in this portfolio resulted in the recording of an 

allowance for loan losses of $1.6 billion at December 31, 2009. For 

more information on home lending purchased credit-impaired loans, 

see pages 117 and 121 of this Annual Report. For more information 

on the consolidation of assets from the Washington Mutual Master 
Trust, see Note 15 on pages 206Œ213 of this Annual Report.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 125
 The calculation of the allowance for loan losses to total retained loans, excluding both home lending purchased credit-impaired loans and loans 
held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust, is presented below.  
December 31, (in millions, except ratios) 
           2009 
    2008
 Allowance for loan losses
  $   31,602
 $   23,164
Less:  Allowance for purchased credit-impaired loans
  1,581
  Š
  Adjusted allowance for loan losses
  $   30,021
 $   23,164
Total loans retained 
  $ 627,218
 $ 728,915
Less:  Firmwide purchased credit-impaired loans
  81,380
  89,088
  Loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust 
  1,002
  Š
Adjusted loans 
  $ 544,836
 $ 639,827
Allowance for loan losses to ending loans excluding purchased credit-impaired loans and loans held by 
the Washington Mutual Master Trust 
             5.51%
       3.62
  
% The following table presents the allowance for credit losses by business segment at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
 Allowance for credit losses 
 2009 
2008 
December 31, 
(in millions) 
Loan losses 
Lending-related 
commitments Total  
Loan losses 
Lending-related  
commitments        Total  
Investment Bank 
  $   3,756
   $ 485
   $   4,241
    $  3,444   $ 360   $   3,804
Commercial Banking 
  3,025
   349
   3,374
    2,826   206   3,032
Treasury & Securities Services 
  88
   84
   172
    74   63   137
Asset Management 
  269
   9
   278
    191   5   196
Corporate/Private Equity 
  7
   Š
   7
    10   Š   10
Total Wholesale
   7,145
   927
   8,072
    6,545   634   7,179
Retail Financial Services 
  14,776
   12
   14,788
    8,918   25   8,943
Card Services 
  9,672
   Š
   9,672
    7,692   Š   7,692
Corporate/Private Equity 
  9
   Š
   9
    9   Š   9
Total Consumer 
   24,457
   12
   24,469
    16,619   25   16,644
Total
  
  $ 31,602   $ 939   $ 32,541 
   $ 23,164   $ 659   $ 23,823
Provision for credit losses 
The managed provision for credit losses was $38.5 bi
llion for the year ended December 31, 2009, up by $13.9 billion from the prior year. The prior-year 
included a $1.5 billion charge to conform Washington Mutual™s allowance for loan losses, which affected both the consumer and wholesale portfolios. 

For the purpose of the following analysis, this charge is excluded. The consumer-managed provision for credit losses was $34.5 billion for the year 
ended December 31, 2009, compared with $20.4 billion in the prior year, reflecting an increase in the allowance for credit losses in the home lending 
and credit card loan portfolios. Included in the 2009 addition to the allowance for loan losses was a $1.6 billion increase related to estimated deteriora-
tion in the Washington Mutual purchased credit-impaired portfolio. The wholesale provision for credit losses was $4.0 billion for the year ended Decem-

ber 31, 2009, compared with $2.7 billion in the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment.
Year ended December 31, 
          Provision for credit losses 
(in millions)     Loan losses 
 Lending-related commitments 
    Total 
 2009
 2008  2007 
2009
   2008     2007 
  2009
          2008 2007
 Investment Bank 
  $  2,154
   $   2,216 
  $   376 
  $ 125
   $ (201) 
  $ 278 
  $   2,279
  $ 2,015  $    654
 Commercial Banking 
1,314
 505 230 
140
 (41) 49 
1,454
 464 279
 Treasury & Securities Services 
34
 52 11 
21
 30 8 
55
 82 19
 Asset Management 
183
 87 (19) 
5 (2) 1 
188
 85 (18
 ) 
Corporate/Private Equity
(a)(b)
 (1)
 676 Š 
(1)
 5 Š 
(2)
 681 Š
    Total Wholesale
 3,684
 3,536 598 
290
 (209) 336 
3,974
 3,327 934
 Retail Financial Services 
15,950
 9,906 2,620 
(10)
 (1) (10) 
15,940
 9,905 2,610
 Card Services Œ reported 
12,019
 6,456 3,331 
Š Š Š 
12,019
 6,456 3,331
 Corporate/Private Equity
(a)(c)(d)
 82
 1,339 (11) 
Š (48) Š 
82
 1,291 (11
 ) 
   Total Consumer
 28,051
 17,701 5,940 
(10)
 (49) (10) 
28,041
 17,652 5,930
 Total provision for credit  
        
    losses Œ reported 
31,735
 21,237 6,538 
280
 (258) 326 
32,015
 20,979 6,864
 Credit card Œ securitized 
6,443
 3,612 2,380 
Š Š Š 
6,443
 3,612 2,380
 Total provision for credit  
      
      losses Œ managed
   $ 38,178
   $ 24,849 
  $ 8,918 
  $ 280
   $ (258) 
  $ 326 
  $ 38,458
  $ 24,591  $ 9,244
 (a) Includes accounting conformity provisions related to the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 
(b) Includes provision expense related to loans acquired in the Bear Stearns merger in the second quarter of 2008. 
(c) Includes amounts related to held-for-investment prime mortgages transferred from AM to the Corporate/Private Equity segment. 

(d) In November 2008, the Firm transferred $5.8 billion of higher quality credit card loans from the legacy Chase portfolio to a securitization trust previously established by 
Washington Mutual (‚‚the Trust™™). As a result of converting higher credit quality Chase-originated on-book receivables to the Trust™s seller™s interest which has a higher 

overall loss rate reflective of the total assets within the Trust, approximately $400 million of incremental provision expense was recorded during the fourth quarter. This 
incremental provision expense was recorded in the Corporate segment as the action related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual™s banking operations. For further 
discussion of credit card securitizations, see Note 15 on pages 206---213 of this Annual Report. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
126
 MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT    
            
 Market risk is the exposure to an adverse change in the market 
value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by a change in 

market prices or rates.  
Market risk management 
 Market Risk is an independent risk management function, aligned 
primarily with each of the Firm™s business segments. Market Risk 

works in partnership with the business segments to identify and 

monitor market risks throughout the Firm as well as to define 

market risk policies and procedures. The risk management function 

is headed by the Firm™s Chief Risk Officer. 
Market Risk seeks to facilitate efficient risk/return decisions, 
reduce volatility in operating performance and make the Firm™s 

market risk profile transparent to senior management, the Board 

of Directors and regulators. Market Risk is responsible for the 

following functions:  
· Establishing a comprehensive market risk policy framework  
· Independent measurement, monitoring and control of business 
segment market risk  
· Definition, approval and monitoring of limits  
· Performance of stress testing and qualitative risk assessments  
Risk identification and classification 
 Each business segment is responsible for the comprehensive identi-

fication and verification of market risks within its units. The highest 

concentrations of market risk are found in IB, Consumer Lending, 

and the Firm™s Chief Investment Office in the Corporate/Private 

Equity segment.  
IB makes markets and trades its products across several different 
asset classes. These asset classes primarily include fixed income risk 

(both interest rate risk and credit spread risk), foreign exchange, 

equities and commodities risk. These trading risks may lead to the 

potential decline in net income due to adverse changes in market 

rates. In addition to these trading risks, there are risks in IB™s credit 

portfolio from retained loans and commitments, derivative credit 

valuation adjustments, hedges of the credit valuation adjustments 

and mark-to-market hedges of the retained loan portfolio. Addi-

tional risk positions result from the debit valuation adjustments 

taken on certain structured liabilities and derivatives to reflect the 

credit quality of the Firm. 
The Firm™s Consumer Lending business unit includes the Firm™s 
mortgage pipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs and all related 

hedges. These activities give rise to complex interest rate risks, as 

well as option and basis risk. Option risk arises primarily from 
prepayment options embedded in mortgages and changes in the 

probability of newly originated mortgage commitments actually 

closing. Basis risk results from differences in the relative move-

ments of the rate indices underlying mortgage exposure and other 

interest rates.  
The Chief Investment Office is primarily concerned with managing 
structural market risks which arise out of the various business 

activities of the Firm. These include structural interest rate risk, and 

foreign exchange risk. Market Risk measures and monitors the 

gross structural exposures as well as the net exposures related to 

these activities. 
Risk measurement  
Tools used to measure risk 
 Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market 
risk, the Firm uses various metrics, both statistical and nonsta-
tistical, including:  
· Nonstatistical risk measures  
· Value-at-risk  
· Loss advisories  
· Drawdowns  
· Economic value stress testing  
· Earnings-at-risk stress testing  
· Risk identification for large exposures (ﬁRIFLEﬂ)  
Nonstatistical risk measures 
Nonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net open 

positions, basis point values, option sensitivities, market values, 

position concentrations and position turnover. These measures pro-

vide granular information on the Firm™s market risk exposure. They 

are aggregated by line of business and by risk type, and are used for 

monitoring limits, one-off approvals and tactical control.  
Value-at-risk 
JPMorgan Chase™s primary statistical risk measure, VaR, estimates 

the potential loss from adverse market moves in a normal market 

environment and provides a consistent cross-business measure of 

risk profiles and levels of diversification. VaR is used for comparing 

risks across businesses, monitoring limits, and as an input to eco-

nomic capital calculations. Each business day, as part of its risk 

management activities, the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VaR 

calculation that includes the majority of its market risks. These VaR 

results are reported to senior management.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 127
 To calculate VaR, the Firm uses historical simulation, based on a 
one-day time horizon and an expected tail-loss methodology, which 

measures risk across instruments and portfolios in a consistent and 

comparable way. The simulation is based on data for the previous 

12 months. This approach assumes that historical changes in 

market values are representative of future changes; this assumption 

may not always be accurate, particularly when there is volatility in 

the market environment. For certain products, such as lending 

facilities and some mortgage-related securities for which price-based 

time series are not readily available, market-based data are used in 

conjunction with sensitivity factors to estimate the risk. It is likely that 

using an actual price-based time series for these products, if avail-

able, would impact the VaR results presented. In addition, certain 
risk parameters, such as correlation risk among certain instruments, 

are not fully captured in VaR. 
In the third quarter of 2008, the Firm revised its reported IB Trading 
and credit portfolio VaR measure to include additional risk positions 

previously excluded from VaR, thus creating a more comprehensive 

view of the Firm™s market risks. In addition, the Firm moved to 

calculating VaR using a 95% confidence level to provide a more 

stable measure of the VaR for day-to-day risk management. The 

following sections describe JPMorgan Chase™s VaR measures under 

both the legacy 99% confidence level as well as the new 95% 

confidence level. The Firm intends to present VaR solely at the 95% 

confidence level commencing in the first quarter of 2010, as infor-

mation for two complete year-to-date periods will then be available. 
The table below shows the results of the Firm™s VaR measure using the legacy 99% confidence level.  
99% Confidence-Level VaR
  
IB trading VaR by risk type and credit portfolio VaR 
 As of or for the year ended 
2009 
 2008 
 At December 31, 
December 31,
 (a)
 (in millions) Average Minimum Maximum Average Minimu
m Maximum 
2009 
2008
  By risk type:
    
   
   Fixed income  
 $ 221
  $ 112
  $ 289
  $ 181   $ 99    $ 409  
 $ 123
  $ 
253 
 Foreign exchange  
  30
   10
   67
   34   13    90 
  18
   70
  Equities  
  75
   13
   248
   57   19    187 
  64
   69
  Commodities and other  
  32
   16
   58
   32   24    53 
  23
   26
  Diversification  
  (131)
(b)
     NM
(c)
     NM
(c)
           (108)
(b)
   NM
(c)
       NM
(c)
   (99)
(b)
  (152
 )(b)
 Trading VaR 
  $  227
  $ 103
  $ 357
  $ 196  $  96    $  420 
 $ 129
  $  
266 
 Credit portfolio VaR  
  101
   30
   221
   69   20    218 
  37
   171
  Diversification  
    (80)
(b)
     NM
(c)
     NM
(c)
 (63)
(b)
   NM
(c)
            NM
(c)
  
  (20)
(b)
  (120
 )(b)
 Total trading and credit 
  
        
   portfolio VaR 
  $ 248
  $ 132
  $ 397
  $ 202  $ 96    $ 449 
 $ 146
  $ 
317 
 (a)  The results for the year ended December 31, 2008, include five months of heritage JPMorgan Chase & Co. only results and seven months of combined JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. and Bear Stearns results.  
(b)  Average and period-end VaRs were less than the sum of the VaRs of its market risk components, which is due to risk offsets resulting from portfolio diversification. 
The diversification effect reflects the fact that the risks were not perfectly correlated. The risk of a portfolio of positions is therefore usually less than the sum of the 
risks of the positions themselves.  
(c)  Designated as not meaningful (ﬁNMﬂ) because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components, and hence it is not meaningful 
to compute a portfolio diversification effect.  
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
128
 The 99% confidence level trading VaR includes substantially all 
trading activities in IB. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, the 

credit spread sensitivities of certain mortgage products were in-

cluded in trading VaR. This change had an insignificant impact on 
the average fourth quarter VaR. For certain other products included 
in the trading VaR, particular risk parameters are not fully captured 

Œ for example, correlation risk. Trading VaR does not include: held-

for-sale funded loan and unfunded commitments positions (how-

ever, it does include hedges of those positions); the DVA taken on 

derivative and structured liabilities to reflect the credit quality of the 
Firm; the MSR portfolio; and securities and instruments held by 
other corporate functions, such as Private Equity. See the DVA 

Sensitivity table on page 130 of this Annual Report for further 

details. For a discussion of MSRs and the corporate functions, see 

Note 3 on pages 156Œ173, Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 and Corpo-
rate/ Private Equity on pages 82Œ83 of this Annual Report.  
2009 VaR results (99% confidence level VaR) 
IB™s average total trading and credit portfolio VaR was $248 million 
for 2009, compared with $202 million for 2008, primarily driven by 

market volatility. Volatility began to significantly increase across all 

asset classes from late 2008 and persisted through the first quarter of 

2009. From the second quarter of 2009 onwards, volatility in the 

markets gradually declined; however, the impact of the volatile 

periods was still reflected in the 2009 VaR numbers. 
Spot total trading and credit portfolio VaR as of December 31, 2009, 
was $146 million, compared with $317 million as of December 31, 

2008. The decrease in the spot VaR in 2009 reflects the reduction in 

overall risk levels as well as the aforementioned decline in market 

volatility by the end of 2009 when compared to the end of 2008.  
For 2009, compared with the prior year, average trading VaR diversi-

fication increased to $131 million, or 37% of the sum of the compo-

nents, from $108 million, or 36% of the sum of the components in 

the prior year. In general, over the course of the year, VaR exposures 

can vary significantly as positions change, market volatility fluctuates 

and diversification benefits change. 
VaR backtesting (99% confidence level VaR)
 To evaluate the soundness of its VaR model, the Firm conducts 
daily back-testing of VaR against daily IB market riskŒrelated 

revenue, which is defined as the change in value of principal trans-
actions revenue (excluding private equity gains/(losses)) plus any 
trading-related net interest income, brokerage commissions, un-

derwriting fees or other revenue. The daily IB market riskŒrelated 

revenue excludes gains and losses on held-for-sale funded loans 

and unfunded commitments and from DVA. The following histo-

gram illustrates the daily market riskŒrelated gains and losses for IB 
trading businesses for the year ended 2009. The chart shows that 
IB posted market riskŒrelated gains on 219 out of 261 days in this 

period, with 54 days exceeding $160 million. The inset graph looks 

at those days on which IB experienced losses and depicts the 

amount by which 99% confidence level VaR exceeded the actual 

loss on each of those days. Losses were sustained on 42 days 
during the year ended December 31, 2009, with no loss exceeding 
the VaR measure. The Firm would expect to incur losses greater 

than that predicted by VaR estimates once in every 100 trading 

days, or about two to three times a year. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 129
 The table below shows the results of the Firm™s VaR measure using a 95% confidence level. 
95% Confidence Level VaR
 Total IB trading VaR by risk type, credit portfolio VaR and other VaR 
 Year ended 
December 31,
   At December 31, 
 Average(a)
 (in millions) 
  2009 
  2008 
        2009
 IB VaR by risk type: 
    
   Fixed income 
 $ 80  
 $ 180  
$   
160 
    Foreign exchange 
  10 
  38 
18
     Equities 
  43 
  39 
47
     Commodities and other 
  14 
  25 
20
     Diversification benefit to IB trading VaR 
  (54) 
  (108) 
(91
 ) 
IB Trading VaR 
 $ 93  
 $ 174  
$   
154 
    Credit portfolio VaR 
  21 
  77 
52
     Diversification benefit to IB trading and credit portfolio VaR 
  (9) 
  (57) 
(42
 ) 
Total IB trading and credit portfolio VaR 
 $ 105  
 $ 194  
$   
164 
    Consumer Lending VaR 
  28 
  112 
57
     Chief Investment Office (CIO) VaR                  
  76 
  114 
103
     Diversification benefit to total other VaR 
  (13) 
  (48) 
(36
 ) 
Total other VaR 
 $ 91  
 $ 178  
$   
124 
    Diversification benefit to total IB and other VaR 
  (73) 
  (86) 
(82
 ) 
Total IB and other VaR 
 $ 123  
 $ 286  
$   
206 
 (a)
 Results for the year ended December 31, 2008, are not available.
VaR measurement  
The Firm™s 95% VaR measure above includes all the risk positions 

taken into account under the 99% confidence level VaR measure, 

as well as syndicated lending facilities that the Firm intends to 

distribute. The Firm utilizes proxies to estimate the VaR for these 

products since daily time series are largely not available. In addi-

tion, the 95% VaR measure also includes certain positions utilized 

as part of the Firm™s risk management function within the Chief 

Investment Office (ﬁCIOﬂ) and in the Consumer Lending businesses 

to provide a Total IB and other VaR measure. The CIO VaR includes 

positions, primarily in debt securities and credit products, used to 

manage structural risk and other risks, including interest rate, credit 

and mortgage risks arising from the Firm™s ongoing business activi-

ties. The Consumer Lending VaR includes the Firm™s mortgage 

pipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs and all related hedges. In the 

Firm™s view, including these items in VaR produces a more com-

plete perspective of the Firm™s market risk profile.  
The 95% VaR measure continues to exclude the DVA taken on 
certain structured liabilities and derivatives to reflect the credit quality 

of the Firm. It also excludes certain activities such as Private Equity, 

principal investing (e.g., mezzanine financing, tax-oriented invest-

ments, etc.) and balance sheet, capital management positions and 

longer-term investments managed by the CIO. These longer-term 

positions are managed through the Firm™s earnings-at-risk and other 

cash flowŒmonitoring processes rather than by using a VaR measure. 

Principal investing activities and Private Equity positions are managed 

using stress and scenario analysis.
 2009 VaR results (95% confidence level VaR) 

Spot IB and other VaR as of December 31, 2009, was $123 million, 

compared with $286 million as of December 31, 2008. The decrease 

in spot VaR in 2009 is a consequence of reductions in overall risk as 

well as declining market volatility. In general, over the course of the 

year, VaR exposures can vary significantly as positions change, 

market volatility fluctuates and diversification benefits change. 
VaR backtesting (95% confidence level VaR) 
To evaluate the soundness of its VaR model, the Firm conducts 

daily back-testing of VaR against the Firm™s market  riskŒrelated 

revenue, which is defined as follows: the change in value of princi-

pal transactions revenue for IB and CIO (excluding private equity 

gains/(losses) and revenue from longer-term CIO investments); 

trading-related net interest income for IB, RFS and CIO (excluding 

longer-term CIO investments); IB brokerage commissions, under-

writing fees or other revenue; revenue from syndicated lending 

facilities that the Firm intends to distribute; and mortgage fees and 

related income for the Firm™s mortgage pipeline and warehouse 

loans, MSRs and all related hedges. The daily firmwide market riskŒ

related revenue excludes gains and losses from DVA.
   
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
130
 The following histogram illustrates the daily market riskŒrelated gains and losses for IB and Consumer/CIO positions for 2009. The chart shows 
that the Firm posted market riskŒrelated gains on 227 out of 261 days in this period, with 69 days exceeding $160 million. The inset graph 
looks at those days on which the Firm experienced losses and depicts the amount by which the 95% confidence level VaR exceeded the actual 

loss on each of those days. Losses were sustained on 34 days during 2009 and exceeded the VaR measure on one day due to high market 
volatility in the first quarter of 2009. Under the 95% confidence interval, the Firm would expect to incur daily losses greater than that pre-

dicted by VaR estimates about twelve times a year. 
The following table provides information about the gross sensitivity 

of DVA to a one-basis-point increase in JPMorgan Chase™s credit 

spreads. This sensitivity represents the impact from a one-basis-point 

parallel shift in JPMorgan Chase™s entire credit curve. As credit 

curves do not typically move in a parallel fashion, the sensitivity 

multiplied by the change in spreads at a single maturity point may 

not be representative of the actual revenue recognized. 
Debit valuation adjustment sensitivity  
 1 Basis Point Increase in 
(in millions) 
JPMorgan Chase Credit Spread 
December 31, 2009
 $ 39 
December 31, 2008 
$ 37 
Loss advisories and drawdowns 
Loss advisories and drawdowns are tools used to highlight to senior 

management trading losses above certain levels and initiate discus-

sion of remedies. 
Economic value stress testing    

While VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in normal 

markets, stress testing captures the Firm™s exposure to unlikely but 

plausible events in abnormal markets. The Firm conducts economic-

value stress tests using multiple scenarios that assume credit 

spreads widen significantly, equity prices decline and significant 

changes in interest rates across the major currencies. Other scenar-

ios focus on the risks predominant in individual business segments 

and include scenarios that focus on the potential for adverse 

movements in complex portfolios. Scenarios were updated more 

frequently in 2009 and, in some cases, redefined to reflect the signifi-

cant market volatility which began in late 2008.  Along with VaR, 

stress testing is important in measuring and controlling risk. Stress 

testing enhances the understanding of the Firm™s risk profile and 

loss potential, and stress losses are monitored against limits. Stress 

testing is also utilized in one-off approvals and cross-business risk 

measurement, as well as an input to economic capital allocation. 

Stress-test results, trends and explanations based on current market 

risk positions are reported to the Firm™s senior management and to 

the lines of business to help them better measure and manage risks 

and to understand event riskŒsensitive positions. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 131
 Earnings-at-risk stress testing 
The VaR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the 

total economic sensitivity of the Firm™s Consolidated Balance 

Sheets to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate 

exposure on reported net income is also important. Interest rate 

risk exposure in the Firm™s core nontrading business activities 

(i.e., asset/liability management positions) results from onŒand 

offŒbalance sheet positions and can occur due to a variety of 

factors, including: 
· Differences in the timing among the maturity or repricing  
of assets, liabilities and offŒbalance sheet instruments. For  

example, if liabilities reprice quicker than assets and funding 

interest rates are declining, earnings will increase initially. 
· Differences in the amounts of assets, liabilities and offŒbalance 

sheet instruments that are repricing at the same time. For example, 

if more deposit liabilities are repricing than assets when general 

interest rates are declining, earnings will increase initially. 
· Differences in the amounts by which short-term and long-term 

market interest rates change (for example, changes in the 

slope of the yield curve, because the Firm has the ability to 

lend at long-term fixed rates and borrow at variable or short-

term fixed rates). Based on these scenarios, the Firm™s earnings 

would be affected negatively by a sudden and unanticipated 

increase in short-term rates paid on its liabilities (e.g., depos-

its) without a corresponding increase in long-term rates re-

ceived on its assets (e.g., loans). Conversely, higher long-term 

rates received on assets generally are beneficial to earnings, 

particularly when the increase is not accompanied by rising 

short-term rates paid on liabilities. 
· The impact of changes in the maturity of various assets, liabili-

ties or offŒbalance sheet instruments as interest rates change. 

For example, if more borrowers than forecasted pay down 

higher-rate loan balances when general interest rates are de-

clining, earnings may decrease initially. 
The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and 

liabilities on a consolidated, corporate-wide basis. Business units 

transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury through a transfer-

pricing system, which takes into account the elements of interest 

rate exposure that can be risk-managed in financial markets. 

These elements include asset and liability balances and contrac-

tual rates of interest, contractual principal payment schedules, 

expected prepayment experience, interest rate reset dates and 

maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and any interest rate 

ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-pricing 

assumptions are dynamically reviewed. 
The Firm conducts simulations of changes in net interest income 
from its nontrading activities under a variety of interest rate 

scenarios. Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change in 

the Firm™s net interest income, and the corresponding impact to 

the Firm™s pretax earnings, over the following 12 months. These 
tests highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors, such as 

the rates themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing strate-

gies on deposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The tests 

include forecasted balance sheet changes, such as asset sales and 

securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior. 
Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk, 
and so a number of alternative scenarios are also reviewed. These 

scenarios include the implied forward curve, nonparallel rate shifts 

and severe interest rate shocks on selected key rates. These scenar-

ios are intended to provide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan 

Chase™s earnings at risk over a wide range of outcomes. 
JPMorgan Chase™s 12-month pretax earnings sensitivity profile as of 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, is as follows. 
 Immediate change in rates 
(in millions) 
+200bp +100bp -100bp -200bp 
December 31, 2009 $ (1,594)   $  (554)  NM
(a)
     NM
(a)
 December 31, 2008 $ 336   $    672  NM
(a)
     NM
(a)
 (a)  Down 100- and 200-basis-point parallel shocks result in a Fed Funds target 
rate of zero, and negative three- and six-month Treasury rates. The earnings-
at-risk results of such a low-probability scenario are not meaningful. 
The change in earnings at risk from December 31, 2008, results 
from a higher level of AFS securities and an updated baseline 

scenario that uses higher short-term interest rates. The Firm™s risk 

to rising rates is largely the result of increased funding costs on 

assets, partially offset by widening deposit margins, which are 

currently compressed due to very low short-term interest rates. 
Additionally, another interest rate scenario, involving a steeper 
yield curve with long-term rates rising 100 basis points and short-

term rates staying at current levels, results in a 12-month pretax 

earnings benefit of $449 million. The increase in earnings is due 

to reinvestment of maturing assets at the higher long-term rates, 

with funding costs remaining unchanged. 
Risk identification for large exposures 
Individuals who manage risk positions, particularly those that are 

complex, are responsible for identifying potential losses that 

could arise from specific, unusual events, such as a potential tax 

change, and estimating the probabilities of losses arising from 

such events. This information is entered into the Firm™s RIFLE 

database. Management of trading businesses control RIFLE 

entries, thereby permitting the Firm to monitor further earnings 

vulnerability not adequately covered by standard risk measures. 
Risk monitoring and control 
Limits 
Market risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits. 
Limits reflect the Firm™s risk appetite in the context of the market 

environment and business strategy. In setting limits, the Firm 

takes into consideration factors such as market volatility, product 

liquidity, business trends and management experience. 
  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
132
 Market risk management regularly reviews and updates risk limits. 
Senior management, including the Firm™s Chief Executive Officer 

and Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for reviewing and approving 

risk limits on an ongoing basis.  
The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate-level limits 
include VaR and stress limits. Similarly, line-of-business limits include 

VaR and stress limits and may be supplemented by loss advisories, 

nonstatistical measurements and instrument authorities. Businesses 

are responsible for adhering to established limits, against which 

exposures are monitored and reported. Limit breaches are reported in 

a timely manner to senior management, and the affected business 

segment is required to reduce trading positions or consult with senior 

management on the appropriate action.  
Qualitative review 
The Market Risk Management group also performs periodic reviews 

as necessary of both businesses and products with exposure to 

market risk to assess the ability of the businesses to control their 

market risk. Strategies, market conditions, product details and risk 

controls are reviewed and specific recommendations for improve-

ments are made to management.  
Model review 
Some of the Firm™s financial instruments cannot be valued based on 

quoted market prices but are instead valued using pricing models. 

Such models are used for management of risk positions, such as 

reporting against limits, as well as for valuation. The Model Risk 
Group, which is independent of the businesses and market risk 

management, reviews the models the Firm uses and assesses model 

appropriateness and consistency. The model reviews consider a 

number of factors about the model™s suitability for valuation and risk 

management of a particular product, including whether it accurately 

reflects the characteristics of the transaction and its significant risks, 

the suitability and convergence properties of numerical algorithms, 

reliability of data sources, consistency of the treatment with models 

for similar products, and sensitivity to input parameters and assump-

tions that cannot be priced from the market.  
Reviews are conducted of new or changed models, as well as previ-
ously accepted models, to assess whether there have been any 

changes in the product or market that may impact the model™s valid-

ity and whether there are theoretical or competitive developments 

that may require reassessment of the model™s adequacy. For a sum-

mary of valuations based on models, see Critical Accounting Esti-

mates Used by the Firm on pages 135Œ139 of this Annual Report. 
Risk reporting 
Nonstatistical exposures, value-at-risk, loss adviso
ries and limit 
excesses are reported daily to senior management. Market risk 
exposure trends, value-at-risk trends, profit-and-loss changes and 

portfolio concentrations are reported weekly. Stress-test results 

are reported at least every two weeks to the businesses and 

senior management.  
 PRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT        
 Risk management 
The Firm makes principal investments in private equity. The illiquid 

nature and long-term holding period associated with these invest-

ments differentiates private equity risk from the risk of positions 

held in the trading portfolios. The Firm™s approach to managing 

private equity risk is consistent with the Firm™s general risk govern-

ance structure. Controls are in place establishing expected levels for 

total and annual investment in order to control the overall size of 

the portfolio. Industry and geographic concentration limits are in 

place and intended to ensure diversification of the portfolio. All 
investments are approved by an investment committee that in-

cludes executives who are not part of the investing businesses. An 

independent valuation function is responsible for reviewing the 

appropriateness of the carrying values of private equity investments 

in accordance with relevant accounting policies. At December 31, 

2009 and 2008, the carrying value of the Private Equity portfolio 

was $7.3 billion and $6.9 billion, respectively, of which $762 

million and $483 million, respectively, represented publicly-traded 

positions. For further information on the Private Equity portfolio, 

see page 83 of this Annual Report. 
 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 133
 OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT    
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed 
processes or systems, human factors or external events.  
Overview 
Operational risk is inherent in each of the Firm™s businesses and 

support activities. Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways, 

including errors, fraudulent acts, business interruptions, inappropriate 

behavior of employees, or vendors that do not perform in accordance 

with their arrangements. These events could result in financial losses 

and other damage to the Firm, including reputational harm. 
To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains a system 
of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to 

provide a sound and well-controlled operational environment. The 

goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, in light of the 

Firm™s financial strength, the characteristics of its businesses, the 

markets in which it operates, and the competitive and regulatory 

environment to which it is subject. Notwithstanding these control 

measures, the Firm incurs operational losses.  
The Firm™s approach to operational risk management is intended to 
mitigate such losses by supplementing traditional control-based 

approaches to operational risk with risk measures, tools and disci-

plines that are risk-specific, consistently applied and utilized firmwide. 

Key themes are transparency of information, escalation of key issues 

and accountability for issue resolution. 
One of the ways operational risk is mitigated is through insurance 
maintained by the Firm.  The Firm purchases insurance to be in com-

pliance with local laws and regulations, as well as to serve other 

needs of the Firm. Insurance may also be required by third parties 

with whom the Firm does business. The insurance purchased is 

reviewed and approved by senior management.   
The Firm™s operational risk framework is supported by Phoenix, an 
internally designed operational risk software tool. Phoenix integrates 

the individual components of the operational risk management 

framework into a unified, web-based tool. Phoenix enhances the 

capture, reporting and analysis of operational risk data by enabling 

risk identification, measurement, monitoring, reporting and analysis 

to be done in an integrated manner, thereby enabling efficiencies in 

the Firm™s monitoring and management of its operational risk. 
For purposes of identification, monitoring, reporting and analysis, the 
Firm categorizes operational risk events as follows: 
Ł  Client service and selection 
Ł  Business practices 

Ł  Fraud, theft and malice 

Ł  Execution, delivery and process management 

Ł  Employee disputes 

Ł  Disasters and public safety 
Ł  Technology and infrastructure failures 
Risk identification 
Risk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that 

management believes may give rise to operational losses. All busi-

nesses utilize the Firm™s standard self-assessment process and sup-

porting architecture as a dynamic risk management tool. The goal of 

the self-assessment process is for each business to identify the key 

operational risks specific to its environment and assess the degree to 

which it maintains appropriate controls. Action plans are developed 

for control issues identified, and businesses are held accountable for 
tracking and resolving these issues on a timely basis. 
Risk measurement 
Operational risk is measured for each business on the basis of histori-

cal loss experience using a statistically based loss-distribution ap-

proach. The current business environment, potential stress scenarios 

and measures of the control environment are then factored into the 

statistical measure in determining the Firmwide operational risk 

capital. This methodology is designed to comply with the advanced 

measurement rules under the new Basel II Framework. 
Risk monitoring 
The Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data, 

permitting analysis of errors and losses as well as trends. Such analy-

sis, performed both at a line-of-business level and by risk-event type, 

enables identification of the causes associated with risk events faced 

by the businesses. Where available, the internal data can be supple-

mented with external data for comparative analysis with industry 

patterns. The data reported enables the Firm to back-test against self-

assessment results. The Firm is a founding member of the Operational 

Riskdata eXchange Association, a not-for-profit industry association 

formed for the purpose of collecting operational loss data, sharing 

data in an anonymous form and benchmarking results back to mem-

bers. Such information supplements the Firm™s ongoing operational 
risk measurement and analysis. 
Risk reporting and analysis 
Operational risk management reports provide timely and accurate 

information, including information about actual operational loss levels 

and self-assessment results, to the lines of business and senior man-

agement. The purpose of these reports is to enable management to 

maintain operational risk at appropriate levels within each line of 

business, to escalate issues and to provide consistent data aggrega-
tion across the Firm™s businesses and support areas.  
Audit alignment  
Internal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to 

provide an independent assessment of the design and effectiveness of 

key controls over the Firm™s operations, regulatory compliance and 

reporting. This includes reviewing the operational risk framework, the 

effectiveness and accuracy of the business self-assessment process 

and the loss data-collection and reporting activities. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
134
 REPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT           
A firm™s success depends not only on its prudent management of 
the liquidity, credit, market and operational risks that are part of its 

business risks, but equally on the maintenance among many con-

stituents Œ clients, investors, regulators, as well as the general 

public Œ of a reputation for business practices of the highest qual-

ity. Attention to reputation always has been a key aspect of the 

Firm™s practices, and maintenance of the Firm™s reputation is the 

responsibility of everyone at the Firm. JPMorgan Chase bolsters this 

individual responsibility in many ways, including through the Firm™s 

Code of Conduct, training, maintaining adherence to policies and 

procedures, and oversight functions that approve transactions. 

These oversight functions include line-of-businesses risk commit-

tees, a Conflicts Office, which examines wholesale transactions 

with the potential to create conflicts of interest for the Firm; and a 

Reputation Risk Office and regional Reputation Risk Committees, 

which review certain transactions that have the potential to affect 

adversely the Firm™s reputation. These regional committees, whose 

members are senior representatives of businesses and control 

functions in the region, focus among other things on complex 

derivatives and structured finance transactions with clients with the 

goal that these transactions not be used to mislead the client™s 

investors or others. 
Fiduciary risk management 

The risk management committees within each line of business 

include in their mandate oversight of the legal, reputational and, 

where appropriate, fiduciary risks in their businesses that may 

produce significant losses or reputational damage. The Fiduciary 

Risk Management function works with the relevant line-of-business 

risk committees, with the goal of ensuring that businesses provid-

ing investment or risk management products or services that give 

rise to fiduciary duties to clients perform at the appropriate stan-

dard relative to their fiduciary relationship with a client. Of particu-

lar focus are the policies and practices that address a business™ 

responsibilities to a client, including client suitability determination; 

disclosure obligations and communications; and performance 

expectations with respect to risk management products or services 

being provided. In this way, the relevant line-of-business risk com-

mittees, together with the Fiduciary Risk Management function, 

provide oversight of the Firm™s efforts to monitor, measure and 

control the risks that may arise in the delivery of products or ser-

vices to clients that give rise to such fiduciary duties, as well as 

those stemming from any of the Firm™s fiduciary responsibilities to 

employees under the Firm™s various employee benefit plans. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 135
 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM     
JPMorgan Chase™s accounting policies and use of estimates are 
integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm™s most com-

plex accounting estimates require management™s judgment to ascer-

tain the value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established 

detailed policies and control procedures intended to ensure that 

valuation methods, including any judgments made as part of such 

methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied 

consistently from period to period. In addition, the policies and pro-

cedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing meth-

odologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its 

estimates for determining the value of its assets and liabilities are 

appropriate. The following is a brief description of the Firm™s critical 

accounting estimates involving significant valuation judgments.  
Allowance for credit losses 
 JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for credit losses covers the retained 
wholesale and consumer loan portfolios, as well as the Firm™s 

portfolio of wholesale and consumer lending-related commitments. 

The allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the value of the 

Firm™s loan assets to reflect probable credit losses as of the balance 

sheet date. For a further discussion of the methodologies used in 

establishing the Firm™s allowance for credit losses, see Note 14 on 

pages 204Œ206 of this Annual Report.  
Wholesale loans and lending-related commitments
  The methodology for calculating the allowance for loan losses and 

the allowance for lending-related commitments involves significant 

judgment. First and foremost, it involves the early identification of 

credits that are deteriorating. Second, it involves judgment in 

establishing the inputs used to estimate the allowances. Third, it 

involves management judgment to evaluate certain macroeconomic 

factors, underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and 

external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio, 

and to refine loss factors to better reflect these conditions.  
The Firm uses a risk-rating system to determine the credit quality of 
its wholesale loans. Wholesale loans are reviewed for information 

affecting the obligor™s ability to fulfill its obligations. In assessing 

the risk rating of a particular loan, among the factors considered 

are the obligor™s debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of 

the obligor™s earnings, the amount and sources for repayment, the 

level and nature of contingencies, management strength, and the 

industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors 

are based on an evaluation of historical and current information 

and involve subjective assessment and interpretation. Emphasizing 

one factor over another or considering additional factors could 

affect the risk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.  
The Firm applies its judgment to establish loss factors used in calcu-
lating the allowances. Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent, 

verifiable data or the Firm™s own historical loss experience in its 

models for estimating the allowances. Many factors can affect esti-

mates of loss, including volatility of loss given default, probability of 
default and rating migrations. Consideration is given as to whether 

the loss estimates should be calculated as an average over the entire 

credit cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle, as well as to 

which external data should be used and when they should be used. 

Choosing data that are not reflective of the Firm™s specific loan port-

folio characteristics could also affect loss estimates. The application of 

different inputs would change the amount of the allowance for credit 

losses determined appropriate by the Firm.  
Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors 
derived, taking into consideration model imprecision, external 

factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet 

reflected in the loss factors. Historical experience of both loss given 

default and probability of default are considered when estimating 

these adjustments. Factors related to concentrated and deteriorat-

ing industries also are incorporated where relevant. These esti-

mates are based on management™s view of uncertainties that relate 

to current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of un-

derwriting standards and other relevant internal and external 

factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio.  
As noted above, the Firm™s wholesale allowance is sensitive to the 
risk rating assigned to a loan. As of December 31, 2009, assuming a 

one-notch downgrade in the Firm™s internal risk ratings for its entire 

wholesale portfolio, the allowance for loan losses for the wholesale 

portfolio would increase by approximately $1.8 billion. This sensitivity 

analysis is hypothetical. In the Firm™s view, the likelihood of a one-

notch downgrade for all wholesale loans within a short timeframe is 

remote. The purpose of this analysis is to provide an indication of the 

impact of risk ratings on the estimate of the allowance for loan losses 

for wholesale loans. It is not intended to imply management™s expec-

tation of future deterioration in risk ratings. Given the process the 

Firm follows in determining the risk ratings of its loans, management 

believes the risk ratings currently assigned to wholesale loans are 

appropriate.  
Consumer loans and lending-related commitments 
The allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio is sensitive 

to changes in the economic environment, delinquency status, FICO 

scores, the realizable value of collateral, borrower behavior and other 

risk factors, and it is intended to represent management™s best esti-

mate of incurred losses as of the balance sheet date. The credit 

performance of the consumer portfolio across the entire consumer 

credit product spectrum continues to be negatively affected by the 

economic environment, as the weak labor market and overall eco-

nomic conditions have resulted in increased delinquencies, while 

continued weak housing prices have driven a significant increase in 

loss severity. Significant judgment is required to estimate the duration 

and severity of the current economic downturn, as well as its poten-

tial impact on housing prices and the labor market. While the allow-

ance for credit losses is highly sensitive to both home prices and 

unemployment rates, in the current market it is difficult to estimate 

how potential changes in one or both of these factors might affect 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
136
 the allowance for credit losses. For example, while both factors are 
important determinants of overall allowance levels, changes in one 

factor or the other may not occur at the same rate, or changes may 

be directionally inconsistent such that improvement in one factor may 

offset deterioration in the other. In addition, changes in these factors 

would not necessarily be consistent across geographies or product 

types. Finally, it is difficult to predict the extent to which changes in 

both or either of these factors would ultimately affect the frequency 

of losses, the severity of losses or both; and overall loss rates are a 

function of both the frequency and severity of individual loan losses.  
The allowance is calculated by applying statistical loss factors and 
other risk indicators to pools of loans with similar risk characteris-

tics to arrive at an estimate of incurred losses in the portfolio. 

Management applies judgment to the statistical loss estimates for 

each loan portfolio category using delinquency trends and other 

risk characteristics to estimate charge-offs. Management uses 

additional statistical methods and considers portfolio and collateral 

valuation trends to review the appropriateness of the primary 

statistical loss estimate. The statistical calculation is adjusted to 

take into consideration model imprecision, external factors and 

current economic events that have occurred but are not yet re-

flected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation, and is 

accomplished in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for 

each major product segment. In the current economic environment, 

it is difficult to predict whether historical loss experience is indica-

tive of future loss levels. Management applies judgment in deter-
mining this adjustment, taking into account the uncertainties 

associated with current macroeconomic and political conditions, 

quality of underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and 

external factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio. 
Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities 
inventory 

JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair 

value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are carried at fair 

value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are carried 

at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including loans accounted for 

at the lower of cost or fair value that are only subject to fair value 

adjustments under certain circumstances.  
Under U.S. GAAP there is a three-level valuation hierarchy for 
disclosure of fair value measurements. An instrument™s categoriza-

tion within the hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that 

is significant to the fair value measurement. Therefore, for instru-

ments classified in levels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy, where inputs are 

principally based on observable market data, there is less judgment 

applied in arriving at a fair value measurement. For instruments 

classified within level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments are more sig-

nificant. The Firm reviews and updates the fair value hierarchy 

classifications on a quarterly basis. Changes from one quarter to 

the next related to the observability of inputs to a fair value meas-

urement may result in a reclassification between hierarchy levels.
Assets carried at fair value
 The following table includes the Firm™s assets measured at fair value and the portion of such assets that are classified within level 3 of the 
valuation hierarchy.
December 31, 
  2009 
    
2008 
(in billions, except ratio data) 
Total at fair value Level 3 total Total at fair value     Level 3 total
Trading debt and equity securities
(a)
   $    330.9   $   35.2 
  $    347.4   $   41.4
 Derivative receivables Œ gross 
  1,565.5   46.7 
  2,741.7   53.0
 Netting adjustment  
  (1,485.3)    Š  
  (2,579.1)    Š
     Derivative receivables Œ net 
  80.2   46.7
(d)
   162.6   53.0
(d)
 Available-for-sale securities 
  360.4   13.2 
  205.9   12.4 
Loans  
  1.4   1.0 
  7.7   2.7 
MSRs 
  15.5   15.5 
  9.4   9.4 
Private equity investments 
  7.3   6.6 
  6.9   6.4 
Other
(b)
   44.4   9.5 
  49.6   8.1 
Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
   840.1   127.7 
  789.5   133.4 
Total assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
(c)
   8.2   2.7 
  11.0   4.3 
Total assets measured at fair value  
  $    848.3   $ 130.4
(e)
   $    800.5   $ 137.7
(e)
 Less: level 3 assets for which the Firm does not bear  
economic exposure 
   2.1
    21.2
 Total level 3 assets for which the Firm bears economic 
exposure  
   $ 128.3 
   $ 116.5 
Total Firm assets  
  $ 2,032.0  
  $ 2,175.1  
Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm assets 
   6% 
   6% 
Level 3 assets for which the Firm bears economic exposure as a 
percentage of total Firm assets  
    6 
   5 
Level 3 assets as a percentage of total Firm assets at fair value 
   15 
   17 
Level 3 assets for which the Firm bears economic exposure as a 
percentage of total assets at fair value 
   15 
   15 
(a) Includes physical commodities carried at the lower of cost or fair value. 
(b) Includes certain securities purchased under resale agreements, securities borrowed, accrued interest receivable and other investments. 
(c) Predominantly includes delinquent mortgage and home equity loans, where impairment is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, and leveraged lending 
loans carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the lower of cost or fair value. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 137
 (d) Derivative receivable and derivative payable balances are presented net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets where there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in 
place with counterparties. For purposes of the table above, the Firm does not reduce derivative receivable and derivative payable balances for netting adjustments, either 
within or across the levels of the fair value hierarchy, as such an adjustment is not relevant to a presentation that is based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation of 
an asset or liability. Therefore, the derivative balances reported in the fair value hierarchy levels are gross of any netting adjustments. However, if the Firm were to net such 
balances, the reduction in the level 3 derivative receivable and derivative payable balances would be $16.0 billion at December 31, 2009. 
(e) Included in the table above are, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, $80.0 billion and $95.1 billion, respectively, of level 3 assets, consisting of recurring and nonrecur-
ring assets carried by IB. This includes $2.1 billion and $21.2 billion, respectively, of assets for which the Firm serves as an intermediary between two parties and does 

not bear economic exposure.  
Valuation 
The Firm has an established and well-documented process for 
determining fair value. Fair value is based on quoted market prices, 

where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair 

value is based on internally developed models that primarily use as 

inputs market-based or independently sourced market parameters. 
The Firm™s process is intended to ensure that all applicable inputs 
are appropriately calibrated to market data, including but not 

limited to yield curves, interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt 

prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. In addition to 

market information, models also incorporate transaction details, 

such as maturity. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure 
that financial instruments are recorded at fair value. These adjust-
ments include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality, the 

Firm™s creditworthiness, constraints on liquidity and unobservable 
parameters that are applied consistently over time.  
For instruments classified within level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments 
used to estimate fair value may be significant. In arriving at an 

estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3, management 

must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, due to 
the lack of observability of significant inputs, management must 
assess all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs Œ 

including, but not limited to, yield curves, interest rates, volatilities, 

equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. In 

addition to market information, models also incorporate transaction 

details, such as maturity. Finally, management judgment must be 
applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to 
reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm™s creditworthiness, 

constraints on liquidity and unobservable parameters, where rele-

vant. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of 

product and its specific contractual terms, and the level of liquidity 

for the product or within the market as a whole. The Firm has 
numerous controls in place to ensure that its valuations are appro-
priate. An independent model review group reviews the Firm™s 

valuation models and approves them for use for specific products. 

All valuation models of the Firm are subject to this review process. 

A price verification group, independent from the risk-taking func-

tions, ensures observable market prices and market-based parame-
ters are used for valuation whenever possible. For those products 
with material parameter risk for which observable market levels do 

not exist, an independent review of the assumptions made on 

pricing is performed. Additional review includes deconstruction of 

the model valuations for certain structured instruments into their 

components; benchmarking valuations, where possible, to similar 
products; validating valuation estimates through actual cash set-
tlement; and detailed review and explanation of recorded gains and 

losses, which are analyzed daily and over time. Valuation adjust-

ments, which are also determined by the independent price verifica-

tion group, are based on established policies and applied 

consistently over time. Any changes to the valuation methodology 
are reviewed by management to confirm the changes are justified. 

As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain prod-

ucts becomes more transparent, the Firm continues to refine its 

valuation methodologies. During 2009, no changes were made to 

the Firm™s valuation models that had, or are expected to have, a 

material impact on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or 

results of operations. 
Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs can affect the 
amount of revenue or loss recorded for a particular position. Fur-
thermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods are appro-

priate and consistent with those of other market participants, the 

use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair 

value of certain financial instruments could result in a different 

estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discus-
sion of the determination of fair value for individual financial in-
struments, see Note 3 on pages 156Œ173 of this Annual Report. In 

addition, for a further discussion of the significant judgments and 

estimates involved in the determination of the Firm™s mortgage-

related exposures, see ﬁMortgage-related exposures carried at fair 
valueﬂ in Note 3 on pages 169Œ170 of this Annual Report. 
Purchased credit-impaired loans 
In connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan 
Chase acquired certain loans with evidence of deterioration of 
credit quality since the origination and for which it was probable, at 

acquisition, that the Firm would be unable to collect all contractu-

ally required payments receivable. These purchased credit-impaired 

loans are accounted for on a pool basis, and the pools are consid-

ered to be performing. At the time of the acquisition, these loans 
were recorded at fair value, including an estimate of losses that are 
expected to be incurred over the estimated remaining lives of the 

loan pools. Many of the assumptions and estimates underlying the 

estimation of the initial fair value and the ongoing updates to 

management™s expectation of future cash flows are both significant 

and subjective, particularly considering the current economic envi-
ronment. The level of future home price declines, the duration and 
severity of the current economic downturn, and the lack of market 

liquidity and transparency are factors that have influenced, and may 
continue to affect, these assumptions and estimates. 
Determining which loans are included in the scope is highly subjec-
tive and requires significant judgment. In the Washington Mutual 

transaction, consumer loans with certain attributes (e.g., higher 

loan-to-value ratios, borrowers with lower FICO scores, delinquen-
cies) were determined to be credit-impaired, provided that those 
attributes arose subsequent to the loans™ origination dates. A 

wholesale loan was determined to be credit-impaired if it was risk-

rated such that it would otherwise have required an asset-specific 
allowance for loan losses.  
Loans determined to be purchased credit-impaired were initially 
recorded at fair value, which included estimated future credit losses.  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
138
 If such loans had not been within the scope of the accounting guid-
ance for purchased credit-impaired loans, they would have been 

recorded at the present values of amounts to be received determined 

at appropriate current interest rates, less an allowance for loan losses 
(i.e., the Washington Mutual allowance for loan losses would have 
been carried over at the acquisition date).   
The Firm estimated the fair value of its purchased credit-impaired 
loans at the acquisition date by discounting the cash flows ex-

pected to be collected at a market-observable discount rate, when 

available, adjusted for factors that a market participant would 

consider in determining fair value. The initial estimate of cash flows 

to be collected was derived from assumptions such as default rates, 

loss severities and the amount and timing of prepayments.   
The accounting guidance for these loans provides that the excess of 
the cash flows initially expected to be collected over the fair value 
of the loans at the acquisition date (i.e., the accretable yield) 

should be accreted into interest income at a level rate of return 

over the term of the loan, provided that the timing and amount of 

future cash flows is reasonably estimable. The initial estimate of 

cash flows expected to be collected must be updated each subse-
quent reporting period based on updated assumptions regarding 
default rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepay-

ments and other factors that are reflective of current market condi-

tions. Probable decreases in expected loan principal cash flows 

after acquisition trigger the recognition of impairment, through the 

provision and allowance for loan losses, which is then measured 
based on the present value of the expected principal loss, plus any 
related foregone interest cash flows discounted at the pool™s effec-

tive interest rate. Probable and significant increases in expected 

principal cash flows would first reverse any related allowance for 

loan losses; any remaining increases must be recognized prospec-

tively as interest income over the remaining lives of the loans. The 
impacts of (i) prepayments, (ii) changes in variable interest rates 
and (iii) other changes in timing of expected cash flows are recog-

nized prospectively as adjustments to interest income. As described 

above, the process of estimating cash flows expected to be col-

lected has a significant impact on the initial recorded amount of the 

purchased credit-impaired loans and on subsequent recognition of 
impairment losses and/or interest income. Estimating these cash 
flows requires a significant level of management judgment. In 

addition, certain of the underlying assumptions are highly subjec-

tive. As of December 31, 2009, a 1% decrease in expected future 

principal cash payments for the entire portfolio of purchased credit-

impaired loans would result in the recognition of an allowance for 
loan losses for these loans of approximately $800 million. 
Finally, the accounting guidance states that investors may aggre-
gate loans into pools that have common risk characteristics and 

thereby use a composite interest rate and estimate of cash flows 

expected to be collected for the pools. The Firm has aggregated 

substantially all of the purchased credit-impaired loans identified in 
the Washington Mutual transaction (i.e., the residential real estate 
loans) into pools with common risk characteristics. The pools then 
become the unit of accounting and are considered one loan for 

purposes of accounting for these loans at and subsequent to acqui-

sition. Once a pool is assembled, the integrity of the pool must be 
maintained. Significant judgment is required in evaluating whether 
individual loans have common risk characteristics for purposes of 
establishing pools of loans.  
Goodwill impairment 
Under U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units 

and tested for impairment at least annually. The Firm™s process and 

methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing is de-
scribed in Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 of this Annual Report.  
Management applies significant judgment when estimating the fair 
value of its reporting units. Imprecision in estimating (a) the future 
earnings potential of the Firm™s reporting units and (b) the relevant 
cost of equity or terminal value growth rates can affect the esti-

mated fair value of the reporting units. The fair values of a signifi-

cant majority of the Firm™s reporting units exceeded their carrying 

values by substantial amounts (fair value as a percent of carrying 

value ranged from 140% to 500%) and thus, did not indicate a 
significant risk of goodwill impairment based on current projections 
and valuations. 
However, the goodwill associated with the Firm™s consumer lending 
businesses in RFS and CS have elevated risk due to their exposure 

to U.S. consumer credit risk. The valuation of these businesses and 

their assets are particularly dependent upon economic conditions 

(including unemployment rates and home prices) that affect con-

sumer credit risk and behavior, as well as potential legislative and 
regulatory changes that could affect the Firm™s consumer lending 
businesses. The assumptions used in the valuation of these busi-

nesses include portfolio outstanding balances, net interest margin, 

operating expense and forecasted credit losses and were made 

using management™s best projections. The cost of equity used in 

the discounted cash flow model reflected the estimated risk and 
uncertainty for these businesses and was evaluated in comparison 
with relevant market peers. The fair value of the credit card lending 

business within CS exceeded its carrying value by approximately 

8%. The fair value of a consumer lending business within RFS did 

not exceed its carrying value; however, implied fair value of the 

goodwill allocated to this consumer lending business within RFS 

significantly exceeded its carrying value.  
The Firm did not recognize goodwill impairment as of December 
31, 2009, based on management's best estimates. However, 
prolonged weakness or deterioration in economic market condi-

tions, or additional regulatory or legislative changes, may result in 

declines in projected business performance beyond management's 

expectations. This could cause the estimated fair values of the 

Firm's reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline, which 
may result in a material impairment charge to earnings in a future 
period related to some portion of their associated goodwill. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 139
 Income taxes 
JPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the various 

jurisdictions in which it operates, including U.S. federal, state and 

local and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws are often complex and 
may be subject to different interpretations. To determine the finan-
cial statement impact of accounting for income taxes, including the 

provision for income tax expense and unrecognized tax benefits, 

JPMorgan Chase must make assumptions and judgments about 

how to interpret and apply these complex tax laws to numerous 

transactions and business events, as well as the timing of when 
certain items may affect taxable income in the U.S. and non-U.S. 
tax jurisdictions.  
JPMorgan Chase™s interpretations of tax laws around the world are 
subject to review and examination by the various taxing authorities in 

the jurisdictions where the Firm operates, and disputes may occur 

regarding its view on a tax position. These disputes over interpreta-

tions with the various taxing authorities may be settled by audit, 

administrative appeals or adjudication by the court systems of the tax 
jurisdictions in which the Firm operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly 
reviews whether it may be assessed additional income taxes as a 

result of the resolution of these matters, and the Firm records addi-

tional reserves as appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise its 

estimate of income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, legal 

interpretations and tax planning strategies. It is possible that revisions 
in the Firm™s estimate of income taxes may materially affect the Firm™s 
results of operations in any
 reporting period.
 The Firm™s provision for income taxes is composed of current and 
deferred taxes. Deferred taxes arise from differences between assets 
and liabilities measured for financial reporting versus income tax 

return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in manage-
ment™s judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely 
than not. The Firm has also recognized deferred tax assets in con-

nection with certain net operating losses. The Firm performs regular 

reviews to ascertain the realizability of its deferred tax assets. These 

reviews include management™s estimates and assumptions regard-

ing future taxable income, which also incorporates various tax 
planning strategies, including strategies that may be available to 
utilize net operating losses before they expire. In connection with 

these reviews, if a deferred tax asset is determined to be unrealiz-

able, a valuation allowance is established
. As of December 31, 
2009, management has determined it is more likely than not that 
the Firm will realize its deferred tax assets, net of the existing 

valuation allowance. 
The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary when 
additional information becomes available. 
Uncertain tax positions 
that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are meas-
ured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain 
tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that 

management believes is more likely than not to be realized upon 

settlement.
 It is possible that the reassessment of JPMorgan 
Chase™s unrecognized tax benefits may have a material impact on 
its effective tax rate in the period in which the reassessment occurs. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
140
 ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS 
FASB Accounting Standards Codification 
In July 2009, the FASB implemented the FASB Accounting Stan-

dards Codification (the ﬁCodificationﬂ) as the single source of 

authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The 

Codification simplifies the classification of accounting standards 

into one online database under a common referencing system, 

organized into eight areas, ranging from industry-specific to general 

financial statement matters. Use of the Codification is effective for 

interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The 

Firm began to use the Codification on the effective date, and it had 

no impact on the Firm™s Consolidated Financial Statements. How-

ever, throughout this Annual Report, all references to prior FASB, 

AICPA and EITF accounting pronouncements have been removed, 

and all non-SEC accounting guidance is referred to in terms of the 

applicable subject matter. 
Business combinations/noncontrolling interests in consoli-
dated financial statements  

In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance which amended the 

accounting and reporting of business combinations, as well as 

noncontrolling (i.e., minority) interests. For JPMorgan Chase, the 

guidance became effective for business combinations that close on 

or after January 1, 2009. The guidance for noncontrolling interests, 

as amended, became effective for JPMorgan Chase for fiscal peri-

ods beginning January 1, 2009. In April 2009, the FASB issued 

additional guidance, which amends the accounting for contingen-

cies acquired in a business combination.  
The amended guidance for business combinations generally only 
impacts the accounting for transactions that closed after December 

31, 2008, and generally only impacts certain aspects of business 

combination accounting, such as the accounting for transaction 

costs and certain merger-related restructuring reserves, as well as 

the accounting for partial acquisitions where control is obtained by 

JPMorgan Chase. One exception to the prospective application of 

the business-combination guidance relates to accounting for in-

come taxes associated with transactions that closed prior to Janu-

ary 1, 2009. Once the purchase accounting measurement period 

closes for these acquisitions, any further adjustments to income 

taxes recorded as part of these business combinations will impact 

income tax expense. Previously, these adjustments were predomi-

nantly recorded as adjustments to goodwill. 
The guidance for noncontrolling interests, as amended, requires 
that they be accounted for and presented as equity if material, 

rather than as a liability or mezzanine equity. The presentation and 

disclosure requirements for noncontrolling interests are to be ap-

plied retrospectively. The adoption of the reporting requirements for 

noncontrolling interests was not material to the Firm™s Consoli-

dated Balance Sheets or results of operations. 
Accounting for transfers of financial assets and repurchase 

financing transactions 

In February 2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires an 

initial transfer of a financial asset and a repurchase financing that 

was entered into contemporaneously with, or in contemplation of, 

the initial transfer to be evaluated together as a linked transaction, 

unless certain criteria are met. The Firm adopted the guidance on 

January 1, 2009, for transactions entered into after the date of 

adoption. The adoption of the guidance did not have a material 

impact on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of 

operations.  
Disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging 
activities  

In March 2008, the FASB issued guidance which amends the prior 

disclosure requirements for derivatives. The guidance, which is 

effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, re-

quires increased disclosures about derivative instruments and 

hedging activities and their effects on an entity™s financial position, 

financial performance and cash flows. The Firm adopted the guid-

ance on January 1, 2009, and it only affected JPMorgan Chase™s 

disclosures of derivative instruments and related hedging activities, 

and not its Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations. 
Determining whether instruments granted in share-based 
payment transactions are participating securities 

In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance for participating securities, 

which clarifies that unvested stock-based compensation awards 

containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equiva-

lents (collectively, ﬁdividendsﬂ), are considered participating securi-

ties and therefore included in the two-class method calculation of 

EPS. Under this method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) 

are allocated to common shares and participating securities based 

on their respective rights to receive dividends. The guidance is 

effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning 

after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years. 

The Firm adopted the guidance retrospectively effective January 1, 

2009, and EPS data for all prior periods have been revised. Adop-

tion of the guidance did not affect the Firm™s results of operations, 

but basic and diluted EPS were reduced as disclosed in Note 25 on 

page 232 of this Annual Report. 
Determining whether an instrument (or embedded  
feature) is indexed to an entity™s own stock 

In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance which establishes a two-

step process for evaluating whether equity-linked financial instru-

ments and embedded features are indexed to a company™s own 

stock for purposes of determining whether the derivative scope 

exception should be applied. The guidance is effective for fiscal 

years beginning after December 2008. The adoption of this guid-

ance on January 1, 2009, did not have an impact on the Firm™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 141
 Employers™ disclosures about postretirement benefit plan 
assets 

In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance requiring more 

detailed disclosures about employers™ plan assets, including invest-

ment strategies, classes of plan assets, concentrations of risk within 

plan assets and valuation techniques used to measure their fair 

value. This guidance is effective for fiscal years ending after De-

cember 15, 2009. The Firm adopted these additional disclosure 

requirements on December 31, 2009, and it only affected JPMor-

gan Chase™s disclosures and not its Consolidated Balance Sheets or 

results of operations. Refer to Note 8 on pages 184Œ191 of this 

Annual Report for additional information. 
The recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary 
impairment 

In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the other-

than-temporary impairment model for debt securities. Under the 

guidance, an other-than-temporary-impairment must be recognized 

if an investor has the intent to sell the debt security or if it is more 

likely than not that it will be required to sell the debt security 

before recovery of its amortized cost basis. In addition, the guid-

ance changes the amount of impairment to be recognized in cur-

rent-period earnings when an investor does not have the intent to 

sell, or if it is more likely than not that it will not be required to sell 

the debt security, as in these cases only the amount of the impair-

ment associated with credit losses is recognized in income. The 

guidance also requires additional disclosures regarding the calcula-

tion of credit losses, as well as factors considered in reaching a 

conclusion that an investment is not other-than-temporarily im-

paired. The guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting 

periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted 

for periods ending after March 15, 2009. The Firm elected to early 

adopt the guidance as of January 1, 2009. For additional informa-

tion regarding the impact on the Firm of the adoption of the guid-

ance, see Note 11 on pages 195Œ199 of this Annual Report. 
Determining fair value when the volume and level of 
activity for the asset or liability have significantly  

decreased, and identifying transactions that are not orderly  

In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance for estimating fair value 

when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have 

significantly declined. The guidance also includes identifying cir-

cumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. The guidance 

is effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after 

June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted. The Firm elected to 

early adopt the guidance in the first quarter of 2009. The applica-

tion of the guidance did not have an impact on the Firm™s Consoli-

dated Balance Sheets or results of operations. 
Interim disclosures about fair value of financial  
instruments  

In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance that requires disclosures 

about the fair value of certain financial instruments (including 

financial instruments not carried at fair value) to be presented in 

interim financial statements in addition to annual financial state-

ments. The guidance is effective for interim reporting periods end-
ing after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods 

ending after March 15, 2009. The Firm adopted the additional 

disclosure requirements for second-quarter 2009 reporting. 
Subsequent events  
In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance that established general 

standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur 

after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are 

issued or are available to be issued. The guidance was effective for 

interim or annual financial periods ending after June 15, 2009. The 

Firm adopted the guidance in the second quarter of 2009. The 

application of the guidance did not have any impact on the Firm™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.  
Accounting for transfers of financial assets and  
consolidation of variable interest entities 

In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the ac-

counting for the transfers of financial assets and the consolidation 

of VIEs. The guidance eliminates the concept of QSPEs and provides 

additional guidance with regard to accounting for transfers of 

financial assets. The guidance also changes the approach for de-

termining the primary beneficiary of a VIE from a quantitative risk 

and rewards-based model to a qualitative model, based on control 

and economics. The guidance became effective for annual reporting 

periods beginning after November 15, 2009, including all interim 

periods within the first annual reporting period. The Firm adopted 

the new guidance for VIEs on January 1, 2010, which required the 

consolidation of the Firm™s credit card securitization trusts, bank-

administered asset-backed commercial paper conduits, and certain 

mortgage and other consumer securitization entities. At adoption, 

the Firm added approximately $88 billion of U.S. GAAP assets, and 

stockholders™ equity decreased by approximately $4 billion. 
In February 2010, the FASB finalized an amendment that defers 
the requirements of the new consolidation guidance for determin-

ing the primary beneficiary of a VIE for certain investment funds, 

including mutual funds, private equity funds and hedge funds. For 

the funds included in the deferral, the Firm will continue to apply 

other existing authoritative guidance to determine whether such 

funds should be consolidated; as such, these funds are not in-

cluded in the above disclosure of the impact of adopting the new 

guidance for VIEs. 
For additional information about the impact to the Firm of the 
adoption of the new guidance on January 1, 2010, see Note 16 on 

pages 214Œ222 of this Annual Report. 
Measuring liabilities at fair value 
In August 2009, the FASB issued guidance clarifying how to de-

velop fair value measurements for liabilities, particularly where 

there may be a lack of observable market information. This guid-

ance is effective for interim or annual periods beginning after 

August 26, 2009. The Firm adopted the guidance in the third 

quarter of 2009, and it did not have an impact on the Firm™s Con-

solidated Balance Sheets or results of operations. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
142
 Measuring fair value of certain alternative investments 
In September 2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the 

guidance on fair value measurements and offers a practical expedi-

ent for measuring the fair value of investments in certain entities 

that calculate net asset value (ﬁNAVﬂ) per share when the fair 

value is not readily determinable. This guidance is effective for the 

first interim or annual reporting period ending after December 15, 

2009. The Firm adopted the guidance in the fourth quarter of 

2009, and it did not have a material impact on the Firm™s Consoli-

dated Balance Sheets or results of operations. 
Fair value measurements and disclosures 

In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance that requires new disclo-

sures, and clarifies existing disclosure requirements, about fair value 

measurements. The clarifications and the requirement to separately 

disclose transfers of instruments between level 1 and level 2 of the 

fair value hierarchy are effective for interim reporting periods begin-

ning after December 15, 2009; however, the requirement to provide 

purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the level 3 rollforward 

on a gross basis is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 

15, 2010. Early adoption of the guidance is permitted. 
NONEXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AT
 FAIR VALUE 
In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades nonex-

change-traded commodity derivative contracts. To determine the 

fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses various fair value esti-

mation techniques, primarily based on internal models with signifi-

cant observable market parameters. The Firm™s nonexchange-

traded commodity derivative contracts are primarily energy-related.  
The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonex-
change-traded commodity derivative contracts for the year ended 

December 31, 2009. 

 For the year ended  
December 31, 2009  
(in millions) 
 Asset position    Liability position
  Net fair value of contracts outstanding  
at January 1, 2009 
 $ 7,432  $ 5,139 
Effect of legally enforceable master netting 
agreements 
  48,091   48,726 
Gross fair value of contracts  
outstanding at January 1, 2009
   55,523   53,865 
Contracts realized or otherwise settled    (31,444)   (30,248) 
Fair value of new contracts 
  12,050   10,192 
Changes in fair values attributable to  
changes in valuation techniques and  

assumptions  
  Š   Š 
Other changes in fair value 
  (5,820)   (5,582) 
Gross fair value of contracts  
outstanding at December 31, 2009
   30,309   28,227 
Effect of legally enforceable master netting 
agreements 
  (25,282)   (26,490) 
Net fair value of contracts  
outstanding at December 31, 2009
  $ 5,027  $ 1,737 
 The following table indicates the maturities of nonexchange-traded 
commodity derivative contracts at December 31, 2009.
 December 31, 2009 (in millions)  Asset position Liability position
 Maturity less than 1 year 
 $ 14,130  $ 11,544
 Maturity 1Œ3 years 
  12,352   9,962
 Maturity 4Œ5 years 
  2,787   1,960
 Maturity in excess of 5 years 
  1,040   4,761
 Gross fair value of contracts  
outstanding at December 31, 2009
   30,309   28,227
 Effect of legally enforceable master  
netting agreements 
  (25,282)
   (26,490) 
Net fair value of contracts  
outstanding at December 31, 2009
  $ 5,027  $ 1,737
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 143
 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
From time to time, the Firm has made and will make forward-
looking statements. These statements can be identified by the fact 

that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. For-

ward-looking statements often use words such as ﬁanticipate,ﬂ 

ﬁtarget,ﬂ ﬁexpect,ﬂ ﬁestimate,ﬂ ﬁintend,ﬂ ﬁplan,ﬂ ﬁgoal,ﬂ ﬁbe-

lieve,ﬂ ﬁassumeﬂ or other words of similar meaning. Forward-

looking statements provide JPMorgan Chase™s current expectations 

or forecasts of future events, circumstances, results or aspirations. 

JPMorgan Chase™s disclosures in this Annual Report contain for-

ward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securi-

ties Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm also may make 

forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or fur-

nished with the SEC. In addition, the Firm™s senior management 

may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, 

representatives of the media and others. 
All forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to risks 
and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Firm™s control. 

JPMorgan Chase™s actual future results may differ materially from 

those set forth in its forward-looking statements. While there is no 

assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is 

complete, below are certain factors which could cause actual 

results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements: 

 
Ł local, regional and international business, economic and political 
conditions and geopolitical events; 
Ł changes in financial services regulation; 
Ł changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws; 

Ł securities and capital markets behavior, including changes in 
market liquidity and volatility; 
Ł changes in investor sentiment or consumer spending or savings 
behavior; 
Ł ability of the Firm to manage effectively its liquidity; 

Ł credit ratings assigned to the Firm or its subsidiaries; 

Ł the Firm™s reputation; 

Ł ability of the Firm to deal effectively with an economic slowdown 
or other economic or market difficulty; 
Ł technology changes instituted by the Firm, its counterparties or 
competitors; 
Ł mergers and acquisitions, including the Firm™s ability to integrate 
acquisitions; 
Ł ability of the Firm to develop new products and services; 

Ł acceptance of the Firm™s new and existing products and services 
by the marketplace and the ability of the Firm to increase market 
share;  
Ł ability of the Firm to attract and retain employees; 
Ł ability of the Firm to control expense; 

Ł competitive pressures; 

Ł changes in the credit quality of the Firm™s customers and  
counterparties; 
Ł adequacy of the Firm™s risk management framework; 

Ł changes in laws and regulatory requirements; 

Ł adverse judicial proceedings; 

Ł changes in applicable accounting policies; 

Ł ability of the Firm to determine accurate values of certain assets 
and liabilities; 
Ł occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or calamities or 
conflicts, including any effect of any such disasters, calamities or 
conflicts on the Firm™s power generation facilities and the Firm™s 

other commodity-related activities; 
Ł the other risks and uncertainties detailed in Part 1, Item 1A: Risk 
Factors in the Firm™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 

ended December 31, 2009. 
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm 

speak only as of the date they are made, and JPMorgan Chase does 

not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the 

impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the 

forward-looking statement was made. The reader should, however, 

consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm 

may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K,  

Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or Current Reports on Form 8-K. 
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 144
 Management of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂ or the 
ﬁFirmﬂ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate 

internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over finan-

cial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, 

the Firm™s principal executive and principal financial officers, or 

persons performing similar functions, and effected by JPMorgan 

Chase™s Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to 

provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 

reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 

purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally  

accepted in the United States of America.  
JPMorgan Chase™s internal control over financial reporting includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 

of records, that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 

the transactions and dispositions of the Firm™s assets; (2) provide 

reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 

permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 

generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 

expenditures of the Firm are being made only in accordance with 

authorizations of JPMorgan Chase™s management and directors; 

and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 

timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of 

the Firm™s assets that could have a material effect on the financial 

statements.  
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial 
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projec-

tions of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject 

to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of 

changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 

policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
  
 Management has completed an assessment of the effect
iveness of 
the Firm™s internal control over financial reporting as of December 
31, 2009. In making the assessment, management used the frame-

work in ﬁInternal Control Œ Integrated Frameworkﬂ promulgated by 

the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Com-

mission, commonly referred to as the ﬁCOSOﬂ criteria.  
Based upon the assessment performed, management concluded 
that as of December 31, 2009, JPMorgan Chase™s internal control 

over financial reporting was effective based upon the COSO criteria. 

Additionally, based upon management™s assessment, the Firm 

determined that there were no material weaknesses in its internal 

control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009.  
The effectiveness of the Firm™s internal control over financial 
reporting as of December 31, 2009, has been audited by 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public 

accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.  
  
 
 
 
 James Dimon 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
   
 
   
 
Michael J. Cavanagh 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  February 24, 2010 
    
   
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  145
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Ł 300 Madison Avenue Ł New York, NY 10017 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of JPMorgan 

Chase & Co.: 
 In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and 

the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stock-

holders™ equity and comprehensive income and cash flows present 

fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of JPMorgan 

Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries (the ﬁFirmﬂ) at December 31, 

2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash 

flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 

2009, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted 

in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Firm 

maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over 

financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria 

established in 
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
 issued by 
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Com-

mission (COSO). The Firm's management is responsible for these 

financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over 

financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of 

internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompany-

ing ﬁManagement's report on internal control over financial report-

ing.ﬂ Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial 

statements and on the Firm's internal control over financial report-

ing based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in 

accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting 

Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we 

plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about 

whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement 

and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 

maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial 

statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence support-

ing the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assess-

ing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made 

by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement 

presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting 

included obtaining an understanding of internal control over finan-

cial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, 

and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 

of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also 

included performing such other procedures as we considered nec-

essary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a 

reasonable basis for our opinions. 
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process 

designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 

of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 

for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted ac-

counting principles. A company™s internal control over financial 

reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to 

the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 

and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of 

the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 

are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial state-

ments in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 

and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made 

only in accordance with authorizations of management and direc-

tors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regard-

ing prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, 

or disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material 

effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial 
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projec-

tions of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject 

to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of 

changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 

policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
   
 
   
 
February 24, 2010

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 146
 Year ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data) 
 2009 
 2008 
2007
Revenue 
   Investment banking fees 
  $    7,087
   $   5,526  $   6,635
Principal transactions 
  9,796
   (10,699)  9,015
Lending- and deposit-related fees 
  7,045
   5,088  3,938
Asset management, administration and commissions 
  12,540
   13,943  14,356
Securities gains
(a)
   1,110
   1,560  164
Mortgage fees and related income 
  3,678
   3,467  2,118
Credit card income 
  7,110
   7,419  6,911
Other income 
  916
   2,169  1,829
Noninterest revenue 
   49,282
   28,473  44,966
Interest income 
  66,350
   73,018  71,387
Interest expense 
  15,198
   34,239  44,981
Net interest income
   51,152
   38,779  26,406
Total net revenue
  
  100,434
   67,252  71,372
Provision for credit losses 
  32,015
   20,979  6,864
Noninterest expense
   
Compensation expense 
  26,928
   22,746  22,689
Occupancy expense 
  3,666
   3,038  2,608
Technology, communications and equipment expense 
  4,624
   4,315  3,779
Professional and outside services 
  6,232
   6,053  5,140
Marketing 
  1,777
   1,913  2,070
Other expense 
  7,594
   3,740  3,814
Amortization of intangibles 
  1,050
   1,263  1,394
Merger costs 
  481
   432  209
Total noninterest expense
  
  52,352
   43,500  41,703
Income before income tax expense/(benefit) and extraordinary gain
   16,067
   2,773  22,805
Income tax expense/(benefit) 
  4,415
   (926)  7,440
Income before extraordinary gain 
  11,652
   3,699  15,365
Extraordinary gain 
  76
   1,906  Š
Net income 
   $  11,728
   $   5,605  $ 15,365
Net income applicable to common stockholders
   $    8,774
   $   4,742  $ 14,927
Per common share data
   
Basic earnings per share
   Income before extraordinary gain  
  $     2.25
   $    0.81  $     4.38
Net income  
  2.27
   1.35  4.38
Diluted earnings per share
   Income before extraordinary gain 
  2.24
   0.81  4.33
Net income  
  2.26
   1.35  4.33
Weighted-average basic shares  
  3,863
   3,501  3,404
Weighted-average diluted shares 
  3,880
   3,522  3,445
Cash dividends declared per common share
   $     0.20
   $    1.52  $     1.48
 (a) Securities gains for the year ended December 31, 2009, included credit losses of $578 million, consisting of $946 million of total other-than-temporary impairment 
losses, net of $368 million of other-than-temporary impairment losses recorded in other comprehensive income. 
 The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
˘
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  147
  December 31, (in millions, except share data) 
 2009 
2008 
Assets  
   
Cash and due from banks 
  $      26,206
  $      26,895 
Deposits with banks 
  63,230
  138,139 
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements (included $20,536 and $20,843 at fair value 
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  195,404
  203,115 
Securities borrowed (included $7,032 and $3,381 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  119,630
  124,000 
Trading assets (included assets pledged of $38,315 and $75,063 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  411,128
  509,983 
Securities (included $360,365 and $205,909 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and assets 
pledged of $100,931 and $25,942 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively)  
  360,390
  205,943 
Loans (included $1,364 and $7,696 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  633,458
  744,898 
Allowance for loan losses  
  (31,602)
  (23,164) 
Loans, net of allowance for loan losses 
  601,856
  721,734 
Accrued interest and accounts receivable (included $5,012 and $3,099 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 
2008, respectively) 
  67,427
  60,987 
Premises and equipment 
  11,118
  10,045 
Goodwill 
  48,357
  48,027 
Mortgage servicing rights 
  15,531
  9,403 
Other intangible assets 
  4,621
  5,581 
Other assets (included $19,165 and $29,199 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  107,091
  111,200 
Total assets
   $ 2,031,989
  $ 2,175,052 
Liabilities
   
Deposits (included $4,455 and $5,605 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  $    938,367
  $ 1,009,277 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements (included $3,396 and $2,993 
at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  261,413
  192,546 
Commercial paper   
  41,794
  37,845 
Other borrowed funds (included $5,637 and $14,713 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  55,740
  132,400 
Trading liabilities 
  125,071
  166,878 
Accounts payable and other liabilities (included the allowance for lending-related commitments of $939 and $659 
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $357 and zero at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively) 
  162,696
  187,978 
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities (included $1,410 and $1,735 at fair value at  
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  15,225
  10,561 
Long-term debt (included $48,972 and $58,214 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  266,318
  270,683 
Total liabilities
   1,866,624
  2,008,168 
Commitments and contingencies (see Note 30 on page 238 of this Annual Report) 
  Stockholders™ equity
   Preferred stock ($1 par value; authorized 200,000,000 shares at December 31, 2009 and 2008; issued 2,538,107 
and 5,038,107 shares at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  8,152
  31,939 
Common stock ($1 par value; authorized 9,000,000,000 shares at December 31, 2009 and 2008; issued 
4,104,933,895 shares and 3,941,633,895 shares at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  4,105
  3,942 
Capital surplus 
  97,982
  92,143 
Retained earnings 
  62,481
  54,013 
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) 
  (91)
  (5,687) 
Shares held in RSU Trust, at cost (1,526,944 shares and 4,794,723 shares at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respec-
tively) 
  (68)
  (217) 
Treasury stock, at cost (162,974,783 shares and 208,833,260 shares at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respec-
tively) 
  (7,196)
  (9,249) 
Total stockholders™ equity
   165,365
  166,884 
Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity
   $ 2,031,989
  $ 2,175,052 
  The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
 ˘ˇ˘ˆ˙
˘
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 148
 Year ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data) 
             2009 
                       2008                      2007
  Preferred stock
     
Balance at January 1 
 $ 31,939
  $ Š  $ Š 
Issuance of preferred stock 
  Š
   31,550   Š 
Issuance of preferred stock Œ conversion of the Bear Stearns preferred stock 
  Š
   352   Š 
Accretion of preferred stock discount on issuance to the U.S. Treasury 
  1,213 
  37   Š 
Redemption of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 
  (25,000)
   Š   Š 
Balance at December 31 
  8,152 
  31,939   Š 
Common stock
    
Balance at January 1 
  3,942
   3,658   3,658 
Issuance of common stock 
  163 
  284   Š 
Balance at December 31 
  4,105
   3,942   3,658 
Capital surplus
    
Balance at January 1 
  92,143
   78,597 
 77,807 
Issuance of common stock 
  5,593 
  11,201 
 Š 
Warrant issued to U.S. Treasury in connection with issuance of preferred stock 
  Š
   1,250 
 Š 
Preferred stock issue cost 
  Š
   (54) 
 Š 
Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock for employee stock-based   
     compensation awards and related tax effects 
  474
   859 
 790 
Net change from the Bear Stearns merger: 
      Reissuance of treasury stock and the Share Exchange agreement 
  Š
   48 
 Š 
   Employee stock awards 
  Š
   242 
 Š 
Other 
  (228)
   Š 
 Š 
Balance at December 31 
  97,982 
  92,143 
 78,597 
Retained earnings
    
Balance at January 1 
  54,013
   54,715 
 43,600 
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles 
  Š 
  Š 
 915 
Balance at January 1, adjusted 
  54,013
   54,715 
 44,515 
Net income 
  11,728 
  5,605 
 15,365 
Dividends declared: 
      Preferred stock  
  (1,328)
   (674) 
 Š 
Accelerated amortization from redemption of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 
         (1,112)
   Š 
 Š 
Common stock ($0.20, $1.52 and $1.48 per share for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) 
      
  (820)
   (5,633)  (5,165) 
Balance at December 31 
  62,481 
  54,013 
 54,715 
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)
    
Balance at January 1 
  (5,687)
   (917)  (1,557) 
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles 
  Š 
  Š 
 (1) 
Balance at January 1, adjusted 
  (5,687)
   (917)  (1,558) 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 
  5,596 
  (4,770) 
 641 
Balance at December 31 
  (91) 
  (5,687) 
 (917) 
Shares held in RSU Trust
    
Balance at January 1 
  (217)
   Š 
 Š 
Resulting from the Bear Stearns merger 
  Š 
  (269) 
 Š 
Reissuance from RSU Trust 
  149
   52 
 Š 
Balance at December 31 
  (68) 
  (217) 
 Š 
Treasury stock, at cost
    
Balance at January 1 
  (9,249)
   (12,832)  (7,718) 
Purchase of treasury stock 
  Š 
  Š  (8,178) 
Reissuance from treasury stock 
  2,079
   2,454   3,199 
Share repurchases related to employee stock-based compensation awards 
  (26) 
  (21)   (135) 
Net change from the Bear Stearns merger as a result of the reissuance of treasury 
stock and the Share Exchange agreement 
  Š
   1,150   Š 
Balance at December 31  
  (7,196) 
  (9,249)   (12,832) 
Total stockholders™ equity
  $ 165,365
  $ 166,884  $ 123,221 
Comprehensive income
    Net income 
 $ 11,728
  $ 5,605   $ 15,365
Other comprehensive income/(loss) 
  5,596
   (4,770)   641 
Comprehensive income
  $ 17,324
  $ 835   $ 16,006
 The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
˘˝
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
  149
 Note: In 2008, the fair values of noncash assets acquired and liabilities assumed in: (1) the merger with Bear Stearns were $288.2 billion and $287.7 billion, respectively 
(approximately 26 million shares of common stock valued at approximately $1.2 billion were issued in connection with the Bear Stearns merger); and (2) the Wash-
ington Mutual transaction were $260.3 billion and $260.1 billion, respectively.
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
  2009 
       2008          2007
Operating activities
     
Net income 
 $   11,728
  $ 5,605  $ 15,365 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: 
         Provision for credit losses 
32,015
 20,979 
6,864
       Depreciation and amortization 
2,783
 3,143 
2,427
       Amortization of intangibles 
1,050
 1,263 
1,394
       Deferred tax (benefit) expense 
(3,622)
 (2,637) 
1,307
       Investment securities gains  
(1,110)
 (1,560) 
(164
 ) 
      Proceeds on sale of investment 
Š (1,540) 
Š       Stock-based compensation 
3,355
 2,637 
2,025
 Originations and purchases of loans held-for-sale 
(22,417)
 (34,902) (116,471
 ) 
Proceeds from sales, securitizations and paydowns of loans held-for-sale 
33,902
 38,036 107,350
 Net change in: 
  
       Trading assets 
133,488
 (12,787) 
(121,240
 ) 
      Securities borrowed 
4,452
 15,408 (10,496
 ) 
      Accrued interest and accounts receivable 
(6,312)
 10,221 (1,932
 ) 
      Other assets 
32,182
 (33,629) (21,628
 ) 
      Trading liabilities 
(79,314)
 24,061 12,681
       Accounts payable and other liabilities 
(26,450)
 1,012 
4,284
 Other operating adjustments 
6,167
 (12,212) 
7,674
 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 121,897
 23,098 
(110,560
 ) 
Investing activities
   
 Net change in: 
  
       Deposits with banks 
74,829
 (118,929) 2,081
       Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 
7,082
 (44,597) 
(29,814
 ) 
Held-to-maturity securities: 
         Proceeds  
9 10 
14
 Available-for-sale securities: 
  
       Proceeds from maturities 
87,712
 44,414 31,143
       Proceeds from sales 
114,041
 96,806 
98,450
       Purchases  
(346,372)
 (248,599) 
(122,507
 ) 
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans held-for-investment 
30,434
 27,531 
34,925
  Other changes in loans, net 
51,251
 (59,123) (83,437
 ) 
Net cash received (used) in business acquisitions or dispositions 
(97)
 2,128 
(70
 ) 
Proceeds from assets sale to the FRBNY 
Š 28,850 
Š  Net maturities (purchases) of asset-backed commercial paper guaranteed by the FRBB 
11,228
 (11,228) 
Š  All other investing activities, net 
(762)
 (934) 
(4,973
 ) 
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 29,355
 (283,671) 
(74,188
 ) 
Financing activities
   
 Net change in: 
  
       Deposits 
(107,700)
 177,331 
113,512
       Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 
67,785
 15,250 
(7,833
 ) 
      Commercial paper and other borrowed funds 
(76,727)
 9,186 
41,412
        Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities 
(7,275) 
(2,675) 
1,070
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities 
51,324
 72,407 95,141
  Repayments of long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities 
(55,713)
 (62,691) (49,410
 ) 
Proceeds from issuance of common stock  
5,756
 11,500 Š
 Excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation 
17
 148  
365
 Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock and Warrant to the U.S. Treasury 
Š 25,000 
Š Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock 
Š 7,746 
Š Redemption of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury 
(25,000)
 Š Š
 Repurchases of treasury stock  
Š Š (8,178
 ) 
Dividends paid 
(3,422)
 (5,911) 
(5,051
 ) 
All other financing activities, net 
(1,224)
 540 
3,028
 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
    (152,179)
    247,831   184,056
 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks 
238
 (507) 424
 Net decrease in cash and due from banks 
(689)
 (13,249) (268
 ) 
Cash and due from banks at the beginning of the year 
26,895
 40,144 40,412
 Cash and due from banks at the end of the year
  $   26,206
  $ 26,895  $   40,144
 Cash interest paid 
 $   16,875
  $ 37,267  $   43,472
 Cash income taxes paid  
5,434
 2,280 
7,472
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
150 
Note 1 Œ Basis of presentation 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (ﬁJPMorgan Chaseﬂ or the ﬁFirmﬂ
), a finan-
cial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a 
leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking 

institutions in the United States of America (ﬁU.S.ﬂ), with operations 

worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial 

services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction process-

ing and asset management. For a discussion of the Firm™s business 

segment information, see Note 34 on pages 245Œ247 of this Annual 

Report.  
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase and 
its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in 

the United States of America (ﬁU.S. GAAPﬂ). Additionally, where appli-

cable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines 

prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.  
Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the 
current presentation.  
Consolidation  
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of 

JPMorgan Chase and other entities in which the Firm has a control-

ling financial interest. All material intercompany balances and trans-

actions have been eliminated.  
The usual condition for a controlling financial interest is ownership  
of a majority of the voting interests of the entity. However, a  

controlling financial interest also may be deemed to exist with  

respect to entities, such as special purpose entities (ﬁSPEsﬂ), through 

arrangements that do not involve controlling voting interests.  
SPEs are an important part of the financial markets, providing mar-
ket liquidity by facilitating investors™ access to specific portfolios of 

assets and risks. For example, they are critical to the functioning of 

the mortgage- and asset-backed securities and commercial paper 

markets. SPEs may be organized as trusts, partnerships or corpora-

tions and are typically established for a single, discrete purpose. 

SPEs are not typically operating entities and usually have a limited 

life and no employees. The basic SPE structure involves a company 

selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase of those assets 

by issuing securities to investors. The legal documents that govern 

the transaction specify how the cash earned on the assets must be 

allocated to the SPE™s investors and other parties that have rights to 

those cash flows. SPEs are generally structured to insulate investors 

from claims on the SPE™s assets by creditors of other entities, includ-

ing the creditors of the seller of the assets.  
There are two different accounting frameworks applicable to SPEs: 
the qualifying SPE (ﬁQSPEﬂ) framework and the variable interest 

entity (ﬁVIEﬂ) framework. The applicable framework depends on the 

nature of the entity and the Firm™s relation to that entity. The QSPE 

framework is applicable when an entity transfers (sells) financial 

assets to an SPE meeting certain defined criteria. These criteria are 

designed to ensure that the activities of the entity are essentially 

predetermined at the inception of the vehicle and that the transferor 

of the financial assets cannot exercise control over the entity and the 
assets therein. Entities meeting these criteria are not consolidated by 

the transferor or other counterparties as long as they do not have 

the unilateral ability to liquidate or to cause the entity to no longer 

meet the QSPE criteria. The Firm primarily follows the QSPE model 

for securitizations of its residential and commercial mortgages, and 

credit card, automobile and student loans. For further details, see 

Note 15 on pages 206Œ213 of this Annual Report.  
When an SPE does not meet the QSPE criteria, consolidation is 
assessed pursuant to the VIE framework. A VIE is defined as an 

entity that: (1) lacks enough equity investment at risk to permit the 

entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated finan-

cial support from other parties; (2) has equity owners that lack the 

right to make significant decisions affecting the entity™s operations; 

and/or (3) has equity owners that do not have an obligation to 

absorb the entity™s losses or the right to receive the entity™s returns.  
U.S. GAAP requires a variable interest holder (i.e., a counterparty to 
a VIE) to consolidate the VIE if that party will absorb a majority of 

the expected losses of the VIE, receive the majority of the expected 

residual returns of the VIE, or both. This party is considered the 

primary beneficiary. In making this determination, the Firm thor-

oughly evaluates the VIE™s design, capital structure and relationships 

among the variable interest holders. When the primary beneficiary 

cannot be identified through a qualitative analysis, the Firm per-

forms a quantitative analysis, which computes and allocates ex-

pected losses or residual returns to variable interest holders. The 

allocation of expected cash flows in this analysis is based on the 

relative rights and preferences of each variable interest holder in the 

VIE™s capital structure. The Firm reconsiders whether it is the primary 

beneficiary of a VIE when certain events occur. For further details, 

see Note 16 on pages 214Œ222 of this Annual Report.  
All retained interests and significant transactions between the Firm, 
QSPEs and nonconsolidated VIEs are reflected on JPMorgan Chase™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheets and in the Notes to consolidated 

financial statements.  
Investments in companies that are considered to be voting-interest 
entities in which the Firm has significant influence over operating 

and financing decisions are either accounted for in accordance with 

the equity method of accounting or at fair value if elected under fair 

value option. These investments are generally included in other 

assets, with income or loss included in other income.  
Generally, Firm-sponsored asset management funds are considered 
voting entities as the funds do not meet the conditions to be VIEs. In 

instances where the Firm is the general partner or managing mem-

ber of limited partnerships or limited liability companies, the non-

affiliated partners or members have the substantive ability to remove 

the Firm as the general partner or managing member without cause 

(i.e., kick-out rights), based on a simple unaffiliated majority vote, or 

have substantive participating rights. Accordingly, the Firm does not 

consolidate these funds. In limited cases where the non-affiliated 

partners or members do not have substantive kick-outs or participat-

ing right, the Firm consolidates the funds.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 151 
Private equity investments, which are recorded in other assets on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets, include investments in buyouts, 

growth equity and venture opportunities. These investments are 

accounted for under investment company guidelines. Accordingly, 

these investments, irrespective of the percentage of equity owner-

ship interest held, are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at 

fair value.  
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by the Firm 
are not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included in the Con-

solidated Balance Sheets. 
Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated finan-
cial statements  

The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements requires 

management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the 

reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expense, and 

disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could 

be different from these estimates. 
Foreign currency translation  
JPMorgan Chase revalues assets, liabilities, revenue and expense 

denominated in non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars using applica-

ble exchange rates.  
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency financial 
statements for U.S. reporting are included in other comprehensive 

income/(loss) within stockholders™ equity. Gains and losses relating 

to nonfunctional currency transactions, including non-U.S. opera-

tions where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported in 

the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
Statements of cash flows  
For JPMorgan Chase™s Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, cash 

is defined as those amounts included in cash and due from banks.  
Significant accounting policies  
The following table identifies JPMorgan Chase™s other significant 

accounting policies and the Note and page where a detailed descrip-

tion of each policy can be found.  
 Fair value measurement 
Note 3 Page 156 
Fair value option 
Note 4 Page 173 
Derivative instruments 
Note   5 Page 175 
Noninterest revenue 
Note 6 Page 183 
Pension and other postretirement employee 
  benefit plans 
Note 8 Page 184 
Employee stock-based incentives 
Note 9 Page 192 
Noninterest expense 
Note  10 Page 194 
Securities  
Note  11 Page 195 
Securities financing activities 
Note  12 Page 200 
Loans 
Note  13 Page 200 
Allowance for credit losses 
Note  14 Page 204 
Loan securitizations 
Note  15 Page 206 
Variable interest entities 
Note  16 Page 214 
Goodwill and other intangible assets 
Note  17 Page 222 
Premises and equipment 
Note  18 Page 226 
Other borrowed funds 
Note  20 Page 227 
Accounts payable and other liabilities Note 21 Page 227 
Income taxes 
Note  27 Page 234 
Commitments and contingencies 
Note  30 Page 238 
OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial  
   instruments and guarantees 
Note  31 Page 238 
Note 2 Œ Business changes and  
developments  
Decrease in Common Stock Dividend 
On February 23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the Firm™s 
quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 per share, 
effective for the dividend payable April 30, 2009, to shareholders of 
record on April 6, 2009.  
Acquisition of the banking operations of Washington  
Mutual Bank  
On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking 
operations of Washington Mutual Bank (ﬁWashington Mutualﬂ) 

from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (ﬁFDICﬂ) for  

$1.9 billion. The acquisition expanded JPMorgan Chase™s consumer 
branch network into several states, including California, Florida 
Washington, Georgia, Idaho, Nevada and Oregon and created the 

third largest branch network in the U.S. The acquisition also extends 

the reach of the Firm™s business banking, commercial banking, credit 
card, consumer lending and wealth management businesses. The 
acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of ac-

counting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of Washing-
ton Mutual be initially reported at fair value.  
In 2008, the $1.9 billion purchase price was preliminarily allocated 
to the Washington Mutual assets acquired and liabilities assumed, 
which resulted in negative goodwill. In accordance with U.S. GAAP 

for business combinations, that was in effect at the time of this 

acquisition, noncurrent nonfinancial assets that were not held-for-
sale, such as the premises and equipment and other intangibles, 
acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction were written down 

against the negative goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained 

after writing down the nonfinancial assets was recognized as an 
extraordinary gain of $1.9 billion at December 31, 2008. The final 
total extraordinary gain that resulted from the Washington Mutual 

transaction was $2.0 billion.  
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
152 
The final summary computation of the purchase price and the allocation of the final total purchase price of $1.9 billion to the net assets acquired of 
Washington Mutual Œ based on their respective fair values as of September 25, 2008, and the resulting final negative goodwill of $2.0 billion are  

presented below. 
(in millions) 
    
Purchase price 
    
Purchase price 
   $ 1,938
  Direct acquisition costs 
   3
 Total purchase price
  1,941
  Net assets acquired
       Washington Mutual™s net assets before fair value adjustments  
$ 39,186
      Washington Mutual™s goodwill and other intangible assets 
  (7,566
) 
     Subtotal 
31,620
   Adjustments to reflect assets acquired at fair value:
    Securities 
(16) 
  Trading assets 
(591) 
  Loans 
(30,998) 
  Allowance for loan losses 
8,216
   Premises and equipment 
680
   Accrued interest and accounts receivable 
(243) 
  Other assets 
4,010
   Adjustments to reflect liabilities assumed at fair value:
    Deposits 
(686) 
  Other borrowed funds 
68
   Accounts payable, accrued expense and other liabilities 
(1,124) 
  Long-term debt 
1,063
   Fair value of net assets acquired
    11,999
  Negative goodwill before allocation to nonfinancial assets 
 (10,058
 ) 
Negative goodwill allocated to nonfinancial assets
(a)
   8,076
  Negative goodwill resulting from the acquisition
(b)
 $ (1,982
 ) 
(a) The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase business combination, which requires the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities (including 
executory contracts and other commitments) of an acquired business to be recorded at their respective fair values as of the effective date of the acquisition and consoli-
dated with those of JPMorgan Chase. The fair value of the net assets of Washington Mutual™s banking operations exceeded the $1.9 billion purchase price, resulting in 
negative goodwill. Noncurrent, nonfinancial assets not held-for-sale, such as premises and equipment and other intangibles, were written down against the negative 
goodwill. The negative goodwill that remained after writing down transaction-related core deposit intangibles of approximately $4.9 billion and premises and equip-
ment of approximately $3.2 billion was recognized as an extraordinary gain of $2.0 billion. 
(b) The extraordinary gain was recorded net of tax expense in Corporate/Private Equity. 
Condensed statement of net assets acquired  
The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the final value assigned to the Washington Mutual net assets as of September 25, 2008
. 
(in millions) 
September 25, 2008
 Assets 
 Cash and due from banks 
 $ 3,680
Deposits with banks 
  3,517
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 
  1,700
Trading assets 
  5,691
Securities 
  17,224
Loans (net of allowance for loan losses) 
  206,456
Accrued interest and accounts receivable 
  3,253
Mortgage servicing rights 
  5,874
All other assets 
  16,596
    
Total assets
  $ 263,991
Liabilities
  Deposits 
 $ 159,872
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements 
  4,549
Other borrowed funds 
  81,636
Trading liabilities 
  585
Accounts payable, accrued expense and other liabilities 
  6,708
Long-term debt 
  6,718
    Total liabilities 
  260,068
Washington Mutual net assets acquired
  $ 3,923
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 153 
Merger with The Bear Stearns Companies Inc.  
Effective May 30, 2008, BSC Merger Corporation, a wholly owned 

subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase, merged with The Bear Stearns 

Companies Inc. (ﬁBear Stearnsﬂ) pursuant to the Agreement and 

Plan of Merger, dated as of March 16, 2008, as amended March 

24, 2008, and Bear Stearns became a wholly owned subsidiary of 

JPMorgan Chase. The merger provided the Firm with a leading 

global prime brokerage platform; strengthened the Firm™s equities 

and asset management businesses; enhanced capabilities in mort-

gage origination, securitization and servicing; and expanded the 

platform of the Firm™s energy business. The merger was accounted 

for under the purchase method of accounting, which requires that 

the assets and liabilities of Bear Stearns be fair valued. The final 

total purchase price to complete the merger was $1.5 billion.  
The merger with Bear Stearns was accomplished through a series of 
transactions that were reflected as step acquisitions. On April 8, 

2008, pursuant to the share exchange agreement, JPMorgan Chase 

acquired 95 million newly issued shares of Bear Stearns common 

stock (or 39.5% of Bear Stearns common stock after giving effect 

to the issuance) for 21 million shares of JPMorgan Chase common 

stock. Further, between March 24, 2008, and May 12, 2008, 

JPMorgan Chase acquired approximately 24 million shares of Bear 

Stearns common stock in the open market at an average purchase 

price of $12.37 per share. The share exchange and cash purchase 

transactions resulted in JPMorgan Chase owning approximately 

49.4% of Bear Stearns common stock immediately prior to con-
summation of the merger. Finally, on May 30, 2008, JPMorgan 

Chase completed the merger. As a result of the merger, each 

outstanding share of Bear Stearns common stock (other than shares 

then held by JPMorgan Chase) was converted into the right to 

receive 0.21753 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase. Also, 

on May 30, 2008, the shares of common stock that JPMorgan 

Chase and Bear Stearns acquired from each other in the share 

exchange transaction were cancelled. From April 8, 2008, through 

May 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase accounted for the investment in 

Bear Stearns under the equity method of accounting. During this 

period, JPMorgan Chase recorded reductions to its investment in 

Bear Stearns representing its share of Bear Stearns net losses, 

which was recorded in other income and accumulated other com-

prehensive income.  
In conjunction with the Bear Stearns merger, in June 2008, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the ﬁFRBNYﬂ) took control, 

through a limited liability company (ﬁLLCﬂ) formed for this purpose, 

of a portfolio of $30 billion in assets acquired from Bear Stearns, 

based on the value of the portfolio as of March 14, 2008. The 

assets of the LLC were funded by a $28.85 billion term loan from 

the FRBNY, and a $1.15 billion subordinated loan from JPMorgan 

Chase. The JPMorgan Chase note is subordinated to the FRBNY 

loan and will bear the first $1.15 billion of any losses of the portfo-

lio. Any remaining assets in the portfolio after repayment of the 

FRBNY loan, the JPMorgan Chase note and the expense of the LLC 

will be for the account of the FRBNY.  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
154 
As a result of step acquisition accounting, the final total purchase price of $1.5 billion was allocated to the Bear Stearns assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed using their fair values as of April 8, 2008, and May 30, 2008, respectively. The final summary computation of the purchase 

price and the allocation of the final total purchase price of $1.5 billion to the net assets acquired of Bear Stearns are presented below. 
(in millions, except for shares (in thousands), per share amounts   
 and where otherwise noted)  
  
Purchase price 
    
 Shares exchanged in the Share Exchange transaction (April 8, 2008) 
 95,000
    
Other Bear Stearns shares outstanding 
   145,759
    
Total Bear Stearns stock outstanding 
 240,759
    
Cancellation of shares issued in the Share Exchange transaction 
 (95,000
 ) 
  
Cancellation of shares acquired by JPMorgan Chase for cash in the open market 
   (24,061
 ) 
  
Bear Stearns common stock exchanged as of May 30, 2008 
 121,698
    
Exchange ratio 
   0.21753
    
JPMorgan Chase common stock issued 
 26,473
    
Average purchase price per JPMorgan Chase common share
(a)
   $    45.26
    Total fair value of JPMorgan Chase common stock issued 
    $  1,198
  Bear Stearns common stock acquired for cash in the open market (24 million shares at an 
average share price of $12.37 per share) 
   298
  Fair value of employee stock awards (largely to be settled by shares held in the RSU Trust
(b)
) 
   242
  Direct acquisition costs 
   27
  Less: Fair value of Bear Stearns common stock held in the RSU Trust and included in the 
exchange of common stock  
         (269
 )(b)
 Total purchase price
    1,496
        Net assets acquired
      Bear Stearns common stockholders™ equity  
 $    6,052
    Adjustments to reflect assets acquired at fair value:
      Trading assets 
 (3,877
 ) 
  Premises and equipment 
 509
    Other assets 
 (288
 ) 
  Adjustments to reflect liabilities assumed at fair value:
      Long-term debt 
 504
    Other liabilities 
   (2,289
 ) 
  Fair value of net assets acquired excluding goodwill
      611
  Goodwill resulting from the merger
(c)
    
 $     885
  (a) The value of JPMorgan Chase common stock was determined by averaging the closing prices of JPMorgan Chase™s common stock for the four trading days during the 
period March 19 through 25, 2008. 
(b) Represents shares of Bear Stearns common stock held in an irrevocable grantor trust (the ﬁRSU Trustﬂ), to be used to settle stock awards granted to selected employees 
and certain key executives under certain heritage Bear Stearns employee stock plans. Shares in the RSU Trust were exchanged for 6 million shares of JPMorgan Chase 
common stock at the merger exchange ratio of 0.21753. For further discussion of the RSU Trust, see Note 9 on pages 192Œ194 of this Annual Report. 
(c) The goodwill was recorded in Investment Bank (ﬁIBﬂ) and is not tax-deductible. 
Condensed statement of net assets acquired  
The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the final values assigned to the Bear Stearns net assets as of May 30, 2008.  
(in millions)   
May 30, 2008 
Assets 
  Cash and due from banks  
 $  
534 
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 
   
21,204 
Securities borrowed  
  
55,195 
Trading assets  
  
136,489 
Loans  
  
4,407 
Accrued interest and accounts receivable  
  
34,677 
Goodwill  
  
885 
All other assets  
  
35,377 
Total assets 
  $  
288,768 
Liabilities 
  Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements  
 $  
54,643 
Other borrowings  
  
16,166 
Trading liabilities  
  
24,267 
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs  
  
47,042 
Long-term debt  
  
67,015 
Accounts payable and other liabilities  
  78,
569 
Total liabilities 
   
287,702 
Bear Stearns net assets
(a)
  
 $  
1,066 
(a) Reflects the fair value assigned to 49.4% of the Bear Stearns net assets acquired on April 8, 2008 (net of related amortization), and the fair value assigned to the 
remaining 50.6% of the Bear Stearns net assets acquired on May 30, 2008. The difference between the net assets acquired, as presented above, and the fair value of 
the net assets acquired (including goodwill), presented in the previous table, represents JPMorgan Chase™s net losses recorded under the equity method of accounting.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 155 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflecting the Bear Stearns merger and Washington Mutual 
transaction 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presents the 2008 and 2007 results of operations of the Firm as 

they may have appeared, if the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction had been completed on January 1, 2008, and 

January 1, 2007.  
Year ended December 31, 
   
(in millions, except per share data) 
  2008  2007
Total net revenue  
  $ 68,149  $ 92,052
Income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
   (14,090)   17,733
Net income/(loss)  
   (12,184)   17,733
Net income per common share data: 
   Basic earnings per share
(a)
   Income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
  $   (4.26)  $  5.02
Net income/(loss) 
         (3.72)   5.02
Diluted earnings per share
(a)(b)
   
Income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
     (4.26)    4.96
Net income/(loss) 
         (3.72)   4.96
Average common shares issued and outstanding 
  Basic  
   3,510.5   3,429.6
Diluted
     
   
3,510.5      3,471.3
(a) Effective January 1, 2009, the Firm implemented FASB guidance for participating securities. Accordingly, prior-period amounts have been revised. For further discussion 
of the guidance, see Note 25 on page 232 of this Annual Report. 
(b) Common equivalent shares have been excluded from the pro forma computation of diluted loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2008, as the effect would be 
antidilutive.  
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information is pre-

sented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the 

financial results of the combined company had the companies 

actually been combined as of January 1, 2008, and as of January 

1, 2007, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future 

periods. Included in the unaudited pro forma combined financial 

information for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, 

were pro forma adjustments to reflect the results of operations of 

Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual™s banking operations, 

considering the purchase accounting, valuation and accounting 

conformity adjustments related to each transaction. For the 

Washington Mutual transaction, the amortization of purchase 

accounting adjustments to report interest-earning assets acquired 

and interest-bearing liabilities assumed at current interest rates is 

reflected for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. 

Valuation adjustments and the adjustment to conform allowance 

methodologies in the Washington Mutual transaction, and valua-

tion and accounting conformity adjustments related to the Bear 

Stearns merger are reflected in the results for the years ended 

December 31, 2008 and 2007.  
Internal reorganization related to the Bear Stearns 
merger  

On June 30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase fully and unconditionally 

guaranteed each series of outstanding preferred stock of Bear 

Stearns, as well as all of Bear Stearns™ outstanding U.S. Securities 

and Exchange Commission (ﬁSECﬂ) registered U.S. debt securities 

and obligations relating to trust preferred capital debt securities. 

Subsequently, on July 15, 2008, JPMorgan Chase completed an 

internal merger transaction, which resulted in each series of 

outstanding preferred stock of Bear Stearns being automatically 

exchanged into newly-issued shares of JPMorgan Chase preferred 

stock having substantially identical terms. Depositary shares, 
which formerly had represented a one-fourth interest in a share of 

Bear Stearns preferred stock, continue to trade on the New York 

Stock Exchange but following completion of this internal merger 

transaction, represent a one-fourth interest in a share of JPMor-

gan Chase preferred stock. In addition, pursuant to internal 

transactions in July 2008 and the first quarter 2009, JPMorgan 

Chase assumed or guaranteed the remaining outstanding securi-

ties of Bear Stearns and its subsidiaries, in each case in accor-

dance with the indentures and other agreements governing those 

securities. 
Other business events  
Purchase of remaining interest in J.P. Morgan Cazeno
ve 
On January 4, 2010, JPMorgan Chase purchased the remaining 
interest in J.P. Morgan Cazenove, an investment banking busi-

ness partnership formed in 2005, which will result in an adjust-

ment to the Firm™s capital surplus. 
Termination of Chase Paymentech Solutions joint  
venture  

The dissolution of Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture, a 

global payments and merchant acquiring joint venture between 

JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corporation, was completed on 

November 1, 2008. JPMorgan Chase retained approximately 51% 

of the business, which it operates under the name Chase Pay-

mentech Solutions. The dissolution of the Chase Paymentech 

Solutions joint venture was accounted for as a step acquisition in 

accordance with U.S. GAAP for business combinations, and the 

Firm recognized an after-tax gain of $627 million in the fourth 

quarter of 2008 as a result of the dissolution. The gain represents 

the amount by which the fair value of the net assets acquired 

(predominantly intangible assets and goodwill) exceeded JPMor-

gan Chase™s carrying value in the net assets transferred to First 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
156 
Data Corporation. Upon dissolution, the Firm consolidated the 
retained Chase Paymentech Solutions business. 
Proceeds from Visa Inc. shares  
On March 19, 2008, Visa Inc. (ﬁVisaﬂ) completed its initial public 

offering (ﬁIPOﬂ). Prior to the IPO, JPMorgan Chase held approxi-

mately a 13% equity interest in Visa. On March 28, 2008, Visa 

used a portion of the proceeds from the offering to redeem a 

portion of the Firm™s equity interest, which resulted in the recog-

nition of a pretax gain of $1.5 billion (recorded in other income). 

In conjunction with the IPO, Visa placed $3.0 billion in escrow to 

cover liabilities related to certain litigation matters. The escrow 

was increased by $1.1 billion in 2008 and by $700 million in 

2009. JPMorgan Chase™s interest in the escrow was recorded as a 

reduction of other expense and reported net to the extent of 

established litigation reserves.  
Purchase of remaining interest in Highbridge Capital  
Management  

In January 2008, JPMorgan Chase purchased an additional equity 

interest in Highbridge Capital Management, LLC (ﬁHighbridgeﬂ), 

which resulted in the Firm owning 77.5% of Highbridge. In July 

2009, JPMorgan Chase completed its purchase of the remaining 

interest in Highbridge, which resulted in a $228 million adjustment 

to capital surplus. 
Subsequent events  
The Firm has performed an evaluation of events that have oc-

curred subsequent to December 31, 2009, and through February 

24, 2010 (the date of the filing of this Annual Report). There have 

been no material subsequent events that occurred during such 

period that would require disclosure in this Annual Report, or 

would be required to be recognized in the Consolidated Financial 

Statements, as of or for the year ended December 31, 2009. 
Note 3 Œ Fair value measurement  
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and l
iabilities at 
fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are carried at 
fair value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are 

carried at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including loans 
accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value that are only 
subject to fair value adjustments under certain circumstances.   
The Firm has an established and well-documented process for 
determining fair values. Fair value is defined as the price that 

would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in 

an orderly transaction between market participants at the meas-

urement date. Fair value is based on quoted market prices, where 

available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair value is 
based on internally developed models that primarily use, as 
inputs, market-based or independently sourced market parame-

ters, including but not limited to yield curves, interest rates, 

volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and 

credit curves. In addition to market information, models also 

incorporate transaction details, such as maturity of the instru-
ment. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that finan-
cial instruments are recorded at fair value. These adjustments 
include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm™s 

creditworthiness, constraints on liquidity and unobservable pa-

rameters. Valuation adjustments are applied consistently over 
time.  
· Credit valuation adjustments (ﬁCVAﬂ) are necessary when the 
market price (or parameter) is not indicative of the credit qual-
ity of the counterparty. As few classes of derivative contracts 
are listed on an exchange, the majority of derivative positions 

are valued using internally developed models that use as their 

basis observable market parameters. Market practice is to 

quote parameters equivalent to an ﬁAAﬂ credit rating whereby 

all counterparties are assumed to have the same credit quality. 
Therefore, an adjustment is necessary to reflect the credit 
quality of each derivative counterparty to arrive at fair value. 

The adjustment also takes into account contractual factors de-

signed to reduce the Firm™s credit exposure to each counter-
party, such as collateral and legal rights of offset. 
· Debit valuation adjustments (ﬁDVAﬂ) are necessary to reflect 
the credit quality of the Firm in the valuation of liabilities 

measured at fair value. The methodology to determine the ad-
justment is consistent with CVA and incorporates JPMorgan 
Chase™s credit spread as observed through the credit default 
swap market. 
· Liquidity valuation adjustments are necessary when the Firm 
may not be able to observe a recent market price for a finan-

cial instrument that trades in inactive (or less active) markets 

or to reflect the cost of exiting larger-than-normal market-size 

risk positions (liquidity adjustments are not taken for positions 
classified within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy). The Firm 
tries to ascertain the amount of uncertainty in the initial valua-

tion based on the degree of liquidity in the market in which 

the financial instrument trades and makes liquidity adjust-

ments to the carrying value of the financial instrument. The 

Firm measures the liquidity adjustment based on the following 
factors: (1) the amount of time since the last relevant pricing 
point; (2) whether there was an actual trade or relevant exter-

nal quote; and (3) the volatility of the principal risk component 

of the financial instrument. Costs to exit larger-than-normal 

market-size risk positions are determined based on the size of 

the adverse market move that is likely to occur during the pe-
riod required to bring a position down to a nonconcentrated 
level.  
· Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments are necessary 
when positions are valued using internally developed models 

that use as their basis unobservable parameters Œ that is, pa-

rameters that must be estimated and are, therefore, subject to 

management judgment. These positions are normally traded 

less actively. Examples include certain credit products where 
parameters such as correlation and recovery rates are unob-
servable. Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments are 

applied to mitigate the possibility of error and revision in the 
estimate of the market price provided by the model.  
The Firm has numerous controls in place intended to ensure that 
its fair valuations are appropriate. An independent model review 

group reviews the Firm™s valuation models and approves them for 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 157 
use for specific products. All valuation models within the Firm are 
subject to this review process. A price verification group, inde-

pendent from the risk-taking function, ensures observable market 

prices and market-based parameters are used for valuation wher-
ever possible. For those products with material parameter risk for 
which observable market levels do not exist, an independent 

review of the assumptions made on pricing is performed. Addi-

tional review includes deconstruction of the model valuations for 

certain structured instruments into their components, and 

benchmarking valuations, where possible, to similar products; 
validating valuation estimates through actual cash settlement; 
and detailed review and explanation of recorded gains and losses, 

which are analyzed daily and over time. Valuation adjustments, 

which are also determined by the independent price verification 

group, are based on established policies and are applied consis-

tently over time. Any changes to the valuation methodology are 
reviewed by management to confirm that the changes are justi-
fied. As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain 

products becomes more or less transparent, the Firm continues to 

refine its valuation methodologies. During 2009, no changes 

were made to the Firm™s valuation models that had, or are ex-

pected to have, a material impact on the Firm™s Consolidated 

Balance Sheets or results of operations. 
The methods described above to estimate fair value may produce 
a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable 
value or reflective of future fair values. Furthermore, while the 

Firm believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consis-

tent with other market participants, the use of different method-

ologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain 

financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair 

value at the reporting date.  
Valuation Hierarchy  
A three-level valuation hierarchy has been established under U.S. 
GAAP for disclosure of fair value measurements. The valuation 

hierarchy is based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation 

of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. The three 
levels are defined as follows.  
· Level 1 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted 
prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active 
markets.  
· Level 2 Œ inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted 
prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and 
inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either di-
rectly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the finan-
cial instrument.  
· Level 3 Œ one or more inputs to the valuation methodology are 

unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.  
A financial instrument™s categorization within the valuation 
hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement.  
Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used by 
the Firm to measure instruments at fair value, including the 

general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valua-
tion hierarchy.  
Assets  
Securities purchased under resale agreements (ﬁresale 
agreementsﬂ) and securities borrowed 

To estimate the fair value of resale agreements and securities 

borrowed transactions, cash flows are evaluated taking into 

consideration any derivative features of the resale agreement and 
are then discounted using the appropriate market rates for the 
applicable maturity. As the inputs into the valuation are primarily 

based on readily observable pricing information, such resale 
agreements are classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments  
The majority of the Firm™s loans and lending-related commitments 

are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consoli-

dated Balance Sheets, nor are they actively traded. The fair value 
of such loans and lending-related commitments is included in the 
additional disclosures of fair value of certain financial instruments 

required by U.S. GAAP on pages 171Œ172 of this Note. Loans 

carried at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis are 
included in the applicable tables that follow. 
Wholesale  
There is no liquid secondary market for most loans and lending-
related commitments in the Firm's wholesale portfolio. In the 

limited circumstances where direct secondary market information, 

including pricing of actual market transactions, broker quotations 

or quoted market prices for similar instruments, is available 

(principally for loans in the Firm's secondary trading portfolio), 

such information is used in the determination of fair value. For 

the remainder of the portfolio, fair value is estimated using a 

discounted cash flow (ﬁDCFﬂ) model. In addition to the character-

istics of the underlying loans (including principal, customer rate 

and contractual fees), key inputs to the model include interest 

rates, prepayment rates, and credit spreads. The credit spread 

input is derived from the cost of credit default swaps (ﬁCDSﬂ) 

and, as a result, also incorporates the effects of secondary market 

liquidity. As many of the Firm™s clients do not have bonds traded 

with sufficient liquidity in the public markets to have observable 

CDS spreads, the Firm principally develops benchmark credit 

curves by industry and credit rating to estimate fair value. Addi-

tional adjustments to account for the difference in recovery rates 

between bonds, on which the cost of credit derivatives is based, 

and loans as well as loan equivalents (which represent the por-

tion of an unused commitment expected, based on the Firm's 

average portfolio historical experience, to become outstanding 

prior to an obligor default) are also incorporated into the valua-

tion process. 
For a discussion of the valuation of mortgage loans carried at fair 
value, see the "Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair value" 
section of this Note on pages 169Œ170. 
The Firm's loans carried at fair value are classified within level 2 
or 3 of the valuation hierarchy depending on the level of liquidity 
and activity in the markets for a particular product. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
158 
Consumer
 The only products in the Firm™s consumer loan portfolio with a 
meaningful level of secondary market activity in the current 

economic environment are certain conforming residential mort-
gages. These loans are classified as trading assets and carried at 
fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. They are predomi-

nantly classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy based on 

the level of market liquidity and activity. For further discussion of 

the valuation of mortgage loans carried at fair value see the 

ﬁMortgage-related exposures carried at fair valueﬂ section on 

pages 169Œ170 of this Note. 
The fair value of the Firm™s other consumer loans (except for 
credit card receivables) is generally determined by discounting the 
loan principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected at 

a market observable discount rate, when available. Portfolio-

specific factors that a market participant would consider in de-

termining fair value (e.g., expected lifetime credit losses, esti-

mated prepayments, servicing costs and market liquidity) are 
either modeled into the cash flow projections or incorporated as 
an adjustment to the discount rate. For products that continue to 

be offered in the market, discount rates are derived from market-

observable primary origination spreads. Where primary origina-

tion spreads are not available (i.e., subprime mortgages, sub-

prime home equity and option adjustable-rate mortgages 
(ﬁoption ARMsﬂ), the valuation is based on the Firm™s estimate of 
a market participant™s required return on equity for similar prod-

ucts (i.e., a hypothetical origination spread). Estimated lifetime 

credit losses consider expected and current default rates for 

existing portfolios, collateral prices (where applicable) and expec-

tations about changes in the economic environment (e.g., unem-

ployment rates).  
The fair value of credit card receivables is determined using a 
discounted expected cash flow methodology. Key estimates and 
assumptions include: projected interest income and late fee 

revenue, funding, servicing, credit costs, and loan payment rates. 

The projected loan payment rates are used to determine the 

estimated life of the credit card loan receivables, which are then 

discounted using a risk-appropriate discount rate. The discount 
rate is derived from the Firm's estimate of a market participant's 
expected return on credit card receivables. As the credit card 

receivables have a short-term life, an amount equal to the allow-

ance for credit losses is considered to be a reasonable proxy for 
the credit cost component. 
Loans that are not carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at 
fair value are not classified within the fair value hierarchy.  
Securities  
Where quoted prices for identical securities are available in an 

active market, securities are classified in level 1 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Level 1 securities include highly liquid government 
bonds, mortgage products for which there are quoted prices in 
active markets such as U.S. government agency or U.S. govern-

ment-sponsored enterprise (collectively, ﬁU.S. government agen-

ciesﬂ), pass-through mortgage-backed securities (ﬁMBSﬂ), and 
exchange-traded equities (e.g., common and preferred stocks). 
If quoted market prices are not available for the specific security, 
the Firm may estimate the value of such instruments using a 

combination of observed transaction prices, independent pricing 
services and relevant broker quotes. Consideration is given to the 
nature of the quotes (e.g., indicative or firm) and the relationship 

of recently evidenced market activity to the prices provided from 

independent pricing services. The Firm may also use pricing 

models or discounted cash flows. The majority of such instru-

ments are classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy; 
however, in cases where there is limited activity or less transpar-
ency around inputs to the valuation, securities are classified 
within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
For certain collateralized mortgage and debt obligations, asset-
backed securities (ﬁABSﬂ) and high-yield debt securities, the 

determination of fair value may require benchmarking to similar 

instruments or analyzing default and recovery rates. For ﬁcashﬂ 

collateralized debt obligations (ﬁCDOsﬂ), external price infor-
mation is not available. Therefore, cash CDOs are valued using 
market-standard models, such as Intex, to model the specific 

collateral composition and cash flow structure of each deal; key 

inputs to the model are market spread data for each credit 

rating, collateral type and other relevant contractual features. 

ABS are valued based on external prices or market spread data, 
using current market assumptions on prepayments and defaults. 
For those ABS where the external price data is not observable 

or the limited available data is opaque, the collateral perform-

ance is monitored and the value of the security is assessed. To 

benchmark its valuations, the Firm looks to transactions for 

similar instruments and utilizes independent prices provided by 
third-party vendors, broker quotes and relevant market indices, 
such as the ABX index, as applicable. While none of those 

sources are solely indicative of fair value, they serve as direc-

tional indicators for the appropriateness of the Firm™s estimates. 

The majority of collateralized mortgage and debt obligations, 

high-yield debt securities and ABS are currently classified in 
level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. For further discussion of the 
valuation of mortgage securities carried at fair value see the 

ﬁMortgage-related exposures carried at fair valueﬂ section of 
this Note on pages 169Œ170. 
Commodities  
Commodities inventory are carried at the lower of cost or fair 
value. The fair value of commodities inventory is determined 

primarily using pricing and data derived from the markets on 

which the underlying commodities are traded. The majority of 
commodities inventory is classified within level 1 of the valuation 
hierarchy.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 159 
The Firm also has positions in commodities-based derivatives that 
can be traded on an exchange or over-the-counter (ﬁOTCﬂ) and 

carried at fair value. The pricing inputs to these derivatives in-

clude forward curves of underlying commodities, basis curves, 
volatilities, correlations, and occasionally other model parameters. 
The valuation of these derivatives is based on calibrating to 

market transactions, as well as to independent pricing informa-

tion from sources such as brokers and dealer consensus pricing 

services. Where inputs are unobservable, they are benchmarked 

to observable market data based on historic and implied correla-
tions, then adjusted for uncertainty where appropriate. The 
majority of commodities-based derivatives are classified within 
level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Derivatives  
Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices are 

classified within level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. However, few 

classes of derivative contracts are listed on an exchange; thus, the 

majority of the Firm™s derivative positions are valued using inter-
nally developed models that use as their basis readily observable 
market parameters Œ that is, parameters that are actively quoted 

and can be validated to external sources, including industry 

pricing services. Depending on the types and contractual terms of 

derivatives, fair value can be modeled using a series of tech-

niques, such as the Black-Scholes option pricing model, simula-
tion models or a combination of various models, which are 
consistently applied. Where derivative products have been estab-

lished for some time, the Firm uses models that are widely ac-

cepted in the financial services industry. These models reflect the 

contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to 

maturity, and market-based parameters such as interest rates, 
volatility, and the credit quality of the counterparty. Further, many 
of these models do not contain a high level of subjectivity, as the 

methodologies used in the models do not require significant 

judgment, and inputs to the models are readily observable from 

actively quoted markets, as is the case for ﬁplain vanillaﬂ interest 

rate swaps, option contracts and CDS. Such instruments are 

generally classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Derivatives that are valued based on models with significant 
unobservable market parameters and that are normally traded 
less actively, have trade activity that is one way, and/or are traded 

in less-developed markets are classified within level 3 of the 

valuation hierarchy. Level 3 derivatives include, for example, CDS 

referenced to certain MBS, certain types of CDO transactions, 

options on baskets of single-name stocks, and callable exotic 

interest rate options. 
Other complex products, such as those sensitive to correlation 
between two or more underlying parameters, also fall within level 
3 of the valuation hierarchy. Such instruments include complex 

credit derivative products which are illiquid and non-standard in 

nature, including CDOs and CDO-squared. A CDO is a debt 

instrument collateralized by a variety of debt obligations, includ-

ing CDS, bonds and loans of different maturities and credit quali-
ties. The repackaging of such securities and loans within a CDO 
results in the creation of tranches, which are instruments with 

different risk profiles. In a CDO-squared transaction, the instru-

ment is a CDO where the underlying debt instruments are also 
CDOs. For most CDO and CDO-squared transactions, while inputs 

such as CDS spreads and recovery rates may be observable, the 

correlation between the underlying debt instruments is unobserv-

able. The correlation levels are not only modeled on a portfolio 
basis but are also calibrated at a transaction level to liquid 
benchmark tranches. For all complex credit derivative products, 

actual transactions, where available, are used to regularly recali-
brate all unobservable parameters.  
Correlation sensitivity is also material to the overall valuation of 
options on baskets of single-name stocks; the valuation of these 

baskets is typically not observable due to their non-standardized 

structuring. Correlation for products such as these is typically esti-
mated based on an observable basket of stocks and then adjusted 
to reflect the differences between the underlying equities. 
For callable exotic interest rate options, while most of the as-
sumptions in the valuation can be observed in active markets 

(e.g. interest rates and volatility), the callable option transaction 

flow is essentially one-way, and as such, price observability is 

limited. As pricing information is limited, assumptions are based 

on the dynamics of the underlying markets (e.g., the interest rate 

markets) including the range and possible outcomes of the appli-

cable inputs. In addition, the models used are calibrated, as 

relevant, to liquid benchmarks, and valuation is tested against 

monthly independent pricing services and actual transactions. 
Mortgage servicing rights and certain retained interests 
in securitizations  
Mortgage servicing rights (ﬁMSRsﬂ) and certain retained interests 
from securitization activities do not trade in an active, open 

market with readily observable prices. Accordingly, the Firm 

estimates the fair value of MSRs and certain other retained inter-
ests in securitizations using DCF models.  
· For MSRs, the Firm uses an option-adjusted spread (ﬁOASﬂ) 
valuation model in conjunction with the Firm™s proprietary pre-

payment model to project MSR cash flows over multiple inter-
est rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted 
rates to estimate the fair value of the MSRs. The OAS model 

considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified ser-

vicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late 

charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other 

economic factors. The Firm reassesses and periodically adjusts 
the underlying inputs and assumptions used in the OAS model 
to reflect market conditions and assumptions that a market 

participant would consider in valuing the MSR asset. Due to 

the nature of the valuation inputs, MSRs are classified within 
level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.  
· For certain retained interests in securitizations, the Firm esti-
mates the fair value for those retained interests by calculating 

the present value of future expected cash flows using model-
ing techniques. Such models incorporate management's best 
estimates of key variables, such as expected credit losses, pre-

payment speeds and the discount rates appropriate for the 

risks involved. Changes in the assumptions used may have a 

significant impact on the Firm's valuation of retained interests, 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
160 
and such interests are therefore typically classified within level 
3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
For both MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitiza-
tions, the Firm compares its fair value estimates and assumptions 

to observable market data where available and to recent market 

activity and actual portfolio experience. For further discussion of 
the most significant assumptions used to value retained interests 
and MSRs, as well as the applicable stress tests for those assump-
tions, see Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 of this Annual Report.  
Private equity investments  
The valuation of nonpublic private equity investments, which are 

held primarily by the Private Equity business within the Corpo-

rate/Private Equity line of business, requires significant manage-

ment judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the 
inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. 
As such, private equity investments are valued initially based on 

cost. Each quarter, valuations are reviewed utilizing available and 

relevant market data to determine if the carrying value of these 

investments should be adjusted. Such market data primarily 

include observations of the trading multiples of public companies 
considered comparable to the private companies being valued 
and the operating performance of the underlying portfolio com-

pany, including its historical and projected net income and earn-

ings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization 

(ﬁEBITDAﬂ). Valuations are adjusted to account for company-

specific issues, the lack of liquidity inherent in a nonpublic in-
vestment and the fact that comparable public companies are not 
identical to the companies being valued. In addition, a variety of 

additional factors are reviewed by management, including, but 

not limited to, financing and sales transactions with third parties, 

future expectations of the particular investment, changes in 

market outlook and the third-party financing environment. Non-
public private equity investments are included in level 3 of the 
valuation hierarchy.  
Private equity investments also include publicly held equity invest-
ments, generally obtained through the initial public offering of 

privately held equity investments. Publicly held investments in liquid 

markets are marked to market at the quoted public value less 

adjustments for regulatory or contractual sales restrictions. Dis-

counts for restrictions are quantified by analyzing the length of the 
restriction period and the volatility of the equity security. Publicly 
held investments are largely classified in level 2 of the valuation 
hierarchy.  
Other fund investments  
The Firm holds investments in mutual/collective investment funds, 

private equity funds, hedge funds and real estate funds. Where 

the funds produce a daily net asset value (ﬁNAVﬂ) that is vali-

dated by a sufficient level of observable activity (purchases and 
sales at NAV), the NAV is used to value the fund investment and 

it is classified in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Where adjust-

ments to the NAV are required, for example, with respect to 

interests in funds subject to restrictions on redemption (such as 

lock-up periods or withdrawal limitations) and/or observable 

activity for the fund investment is limited, investments are classi-

fied within level 2 or 3 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Liabilities  
Securities sold under repurchase agreements (ﬁrepur-
chase agreementsﬂ)  

To estimate the fair value of repurchase agreements, cash flows 

are evaluated taking into consideration any derivative features of 

the repurchase agreements and are then discounted using the 

appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity. Generally, 
for these types of agreements, there is a requirement that collat-
eral be maintained with a market value equal to, or in excess of, 

the principal amount loaned; as a result, there would be no 

adjustment, or an immaterial adjustment, to reflect the credit 

quality of the Firm (i.e., DVA) related to these agreements. As the 

inputs into the valuation are primarily based on observable pric-
ing information, repurchase agreements are classified within level 
2 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs  
The fair value of beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 

(ﬁbeneficial interestsﬂ) is estimated based on the fair value of the 

underlying assets held by the VIEs. The valuation of beneficial 

interests does not include an adjustment to reflect the credit 

quality of the Firm, as the holders of these beneficial interests do 
not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. 
Where the inputs into the valuation are based on observable 

market pricing information, the beneficial interests are classified 

within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Where significant inputs 

into the valuation are unobservable, the beneficial interests are 
classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Deposits, other borrowed funds and long-term debt  
Included within deposits, other borrowed funds and long-term debt 
are structured notes issued by the Firm that are financial instru-
ments containing embedded derivatives. To estimate the fair value 

of structured notes, cash flows are evaluated taking into considera-

tion any derivative features and are then discounted using the 

appropriate market rates for the applicable maturities. In addition, 

the valuation of structured notes includes an adjustment to reflect 
the credit quality of the Firm (i.e., the DVA). Where the inputs into 
the valuation are primarily based on observable market prices, the 

structured notes are classified within level 2 of the valuation hierar-

chy. Where significant inputs are unobservable, the structured notes 
are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.  
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 161 
The following tables present financial instruments measured at fair value as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, by major product category on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets and by the fair value hierarchy (as described above).  
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
  Fair value hierarchy 
  December 31, 2009
 (in millions)
 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 
Netting  
adjustments 
        Total 
         fair value
 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale  
agreements 
 $ Š $ 20,536  $ Š   $  Š $     20,536
 Securities borrowed 
  Š   7,032   Š   Š   7,032
 Trading assets: 
    
 Debt instruments: 
     Mortgage-backed securities: 
    
 U.S. government agencies
(a)
   33,092   8,373   260   Š   41,725
 Residential Œ nonagency
(b)
   Š   2,284   1,115   Š   3,399
 Commercial Œ nonagency
(b)
   Š   537   1,770   Š   2,307
 Total mortgage-backed securities 
  33,092   11,194   3,145   Š   47,431
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)
   23,033   227   Š   Š   23,260
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
  Š   5,681   1,971   Š   7,652
 Certificates of deposit, bankers™ acceptances and  
   commercial paper 
  Š   5,419   Š   Š   5,419
 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
  25,684   32,487   734   Š   58,905
 Corporate debt securities 
  Š   48,754   5,241   Š   53,995
 Loans
(c)
   Š   18,330   13,218   Š   31,548
 Asset-backed securities 
  Š   1,428   7,975   Š   9,403
 Total debt instruments 
  81,809   123,520   32,284   Š  237,613
 Equity securities 
  75,053   3,450   1,956   Š   80,459
 Physical commodities
(d)
   9,450   586   Š   Š   10,036
 Other 
  Š   1,884   926   Š   2,810
 Total debt and equity instruments 
 166,312   129,440   35,166    Š  330,918
 Derivative receivables
(e)
   2,344 1,516,490   46,684  (1,485,308)   80,210
 Total trading assets 
 168,656 1,645,930   81,850  (1,485,308)  411,128
 Available-for-sale securities: 
    
 Mortgage-backed securities: 
        U.S. government agencies
(a)
  158,957   8,941   Š   Š  167,898
    Residential Œ nonagency
(b)
   Š   14,773   25   Š   14,798
    Commercial Œ nonagency
(b)
   Š   4,590   Š   Š   4,590
 Total mortgage-backed securities 
 158,957   28,304   25   Š  187,286
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)
   
  405   29,592   Š   Š   29,997
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
  Š   6,188   349   Š   6,537
 Certificates of deposit 
  Š   2,650   Š   Š   2,650
 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
  5,506   18,997   Š   Š   24,503
 Corporate debt securities 
  1   62,007   Š   Š   62,008
 Asset-backed securities: 
       Credit card receivables 
  Š   25,742   Š   Š   25,742
   Collateralized debt and loan obligations 
  Š   5   12,144   Š   12,149
   Other 
  Š   6,206   588   Š   6,794
 Equity securities 
  2,466   146   87   Š   2,699
 Total available-for-sale securities 
 167,335   179,837   13,193   Š  360,365
 Loans 
  Š   374   990   Š   1,364
 Mortgage servicing rights 
  Š   Š   15,531   Š   15,531
 Other assets: 
    
 Private equity investments
(f)
   165   597   6,563   Š   7,325
 All other
(g)
   7,241   90   9,521   Š   16,852
 Total other assets 
  7,406   687   16,084   Š   24,177
 Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring 
basis
(h)
  $ 343,397 $ 1,854,396  $ 127,648  $ (1,485,308)  $ 840,133
 Less: Level 3 assets for which the Firm does not bear 
economic exposure
(i)
     
  2,118
  
 Total recurring level 3 assets for which the  
Firm
 bears
 economic exposure
    $ 125,530  
  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
162 
  Fair value hierarchy 
  December 31, 2009
 (in millions)
 Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Netting  
adjustments 
       Total 
         fair value
 Deposits 
 $ Š  $ 3,979  $ 476 $  Š   $     4,455
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or 
sold under repurchase agreements 
  Š    3,396    Š    Š   3,396
Other borrowed funds 
  Š    5,095   542    Š   5,637
Trading liabilities: 
     Debt and equity instruments 
  54,077    10,859   10    Š   64,946
Derivative payables
(e)
   2,038    1,481,813   35,332   (1,459,058)   60,125
Total trading liabilities 
  56,115    1,492,672   35,342   (1,459,058)   125,071
Accounts payable and other liabilities 
   Š    2   355    Š   357
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs 
   Š    785   625    Š   1,410
Long-term debt  
   Š    30,685   18,287    Š   48,972
Total liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
  $ 56,115   $ 1,536,614  $ 55,627  $ (1,459,058)   $ 189,298
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 163 
 Fair value hierarchy 
  December 31, 2008 (in millions)
 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 
Netting  
adjustments 
       Total 
         fair value
 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale 
agreements 
 $ Š 
 $ 20,843  $ Š $   Š  $   20,843
 Securities borrowed 
  Š   3,381   Š   Š   3,381
 Trading assets: 
    
 Debt instruments: 
     Mortgage-backed securities: 
     U.S. government agencies
(a)
   48,761   9,984   163   Š
   58,908
 Residential Œ nonagency
(b)
   Š   658   3,339   Š   3,997
 Commercial Œ nonagency
(b)
   Š   329   2,487   Š   2,816
 Total mortgage-backed securities 
  48,761   10,971   5,989   Š
   65,721
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)
   29,646   1,659   Š   Š   31,305
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
  Š   10,361   2,641   Š   13,002
 Certificates of deposit, bankers™ acceptances and 
  commercial paper 
  1,180   6,312   Š   Š   7,492
 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
  19,986   17,954   707   Š   38,647
 Corporate debt securities 
  1   55,042   5,280   Š   60,323
 Loans
(c)
   Š   14,711   17,091   Š   31,802
 Asset-backed securities 
  Š   2,414   7,106   Š   9,520
 Total debt instruments 
  99,574   119,424   38,814   Š   257,812
 Equity securities 
  73,174   3,992   1,380   Š   78,546
 Physical commodities
(d)
   3,455   126   Š   Š   3,581
 Other 
  4   6,188   1,226   Š   7,418
 Total debt and equity instruments 
  176,207   129,730   41,420   Š   347,357
 Derivative receivables
(e)
   3,630   2,685,101   52,991   (2,579,096)   162,626
 Total trading assets 
  179,837   2,814,831   94,411   (2,579,096)   509,983
 Available-for-sale securities
 : 
     Mortgage-backed securities: 
       U.S. government agencies
(a)
   109,009   8,376   Š   Š   117,385
   Residential Œ nonagency
(b)
   Š   9,115   49   Š   9,164
   Commercial Œ nonagency
(b)
   Š   3,939   Š   Š   3,939
 Total mortgage-backed securities 
  109,009   21,430   49   Š   130,488
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)
  
  615   9,742   Š   Š   10,357
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
  34   2,463   838   Š   3,335
 Certificates of deposit 
  Š   17,282   Š   Š   17,282
 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
  6,112   2,232   Š   Š   8,344
 Corporate debt securities 
  Š   9,497   57   Š   9,554
 Asset-backed securities: 
     Credit card receivables 
  Š   11,391   Š   Š   11,391
 Collateralized debt and loan obligations 
  Š   Š   11,195   Š   11,195
 Other 
  Š   643   252   Š   895
 Equity securities 
  3,053   15   Š   Š   3,068
 Total available-for-sale securities 
  118,823   74,695   12,391   Š   205,909
 Loans 
  Š   5,029   2,667   Š   7,696
 Mortgage servicing rights 
  Š   Š   9,403   Š   9,403
 Other assets: 
    
 Private equity investments
(f)
   151   332   6,369   Š   6,852
 All other
(g)
   5,977   11,355   8,114   Š   25,446
 Total other assets 
  6,128   11,687   14,483   Š   32,298
 Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring 
basis
  $ 304,788 $ 2,930,466  $ 133,355 $ (2,579,096)  $ 789,513
 Less: Level 3 assets for which the Firm does not bear economic 
exposure
(i)
     
  21,169
  
 Total recurring level 3 assets for which the  
Firm
 bears
 economic exposure
    $ 112,186  
  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
164 
  Fair value hierarchy 
  December 31, 2008 (in millions)
 Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
 Netting  
adjustments 
          Total  
       fair value
 Deposits 
 $ Š  $ 4,370  $ 1,235  $ Š  $     5,605
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or 
sold under repurchase agreements 
  Š   2,993   Š   Š   2,993
Other borrowed funds 
  Š   14,612   101   Š   14,713
Trading liabilities: 
    Debt and equity instruments 
  34,568   10,418   288   Š   45,274
Derivative payables
(e)
   3,630   2,622,371   43,484   (2,547,881)   121,604
Total trading liabilities 
  38,198   2,632,789   43,772   (2,547,881)   166,878
Accounts payable and other liabilities 
  Š   Š   Š   Š   Š
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs   Š   1,735   Š   Š   1,735
Long-term debt  
  Š   41,666   16,548   Š   58,214
Total liabilities measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis
  $ 38,198  $ 2,698,165  $ 61,656 $ (2,547,881)  $ 250,138
 (a) Includes total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations of $195.8 billion and $182.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which were pre-
dominantly mortgage-related. 
(b) For further discussion of residential and commercial MBS, see the ﬁMortgage-related exposure carried at fair valueﬂ section of this Note on pages 169Œ170. 
(c) Included within trading loans at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, are $15.7 billion and $12.1 billion of residential first-lien mortgages and $2.7 billion and 
$4.3 billion of commercial first-lien mortgages. For further discussion of residential and commercial loans carried at fair value or the lower of cost or fair value, see the 

ﬁMortgage-related exposure carried at fair valueﬂ section of this Note on pages 169Œ170. 
(d) Physical commodities inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value. 
(e) As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related cash collateral received and paid when a 
legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. For purposes of the tables above, the Firm does not reduce derivative receivables and derivative payables balances 
for this netting adjustment, either within or across the levels of the fair value hierarchy, as such netting is not relevant to a presentation based on the transparency of 
inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability. Therefore, the balances reported in the fair value hierarchy table are gross of any counterparty netting adjustments. How-

ever, if the Firm were to net such balances, the reduction in the level 3 derivative receivable and derivative payable balances would be $16.0 billion at December 31, 
2009. 
(f) Private equity instruments represent investments within the Corporate/Private Equity line of business. The cost basis of the private equity investment portfolio was $8.8 
billion and $8.3 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(g) Includes assets within accrued interest receivable and other assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 

(h) Balances include investments valued at NAV at December 31, 2009, of $16.8 billion, of which $9.0 billion is classified in level 1, $3.2 billion in level 2 and $4.6 billion 
in level 3. 
(i) Includes assets for which the Firm serves as an intermediary between two parties and does not bear market risk. The assets are predominantly reflected within derivative 
receivables.  
  Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements  
The following tables include a rollforward of the activity for finan-

cial instruments classified by the Firm within level 3 of the fair value 

hierarchy for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 

(including changes in fair value). Level 3 financial instruments 

typically include, in addition to the unobservable or level 3 compo-

nents, observable components (that is, components that are ac-

tively quoted and can be validated to external sources); accordingly, 

the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair 
value due in part to observable factors that are part of the valua-

tion methodology. Also, the Firm risk manages the observable 

components of level 3 financial instruments using securities and 

derivative positions that are classified within level 1 or 2 of the fair 

value hierarchy; as these level 1 and level 2 risk management 

instruments are not included below, the gains or losses in the 

following tables do not reflect the effect of the Firm™s risk manage-

ment activities related to such level 3 instruments. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 165 
  Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2009 
(in millions)
 Fair value, 
January 1, 2009 
Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
gains/(losses) 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(g)
 Fair value, 
December 31, 
2009 
Change in  
unrealized 
gains/(losses)  
related to financial
  instruments held at 
 December 31, 2009
 Assets:
       Trading assets: 
   
   Debt instruments: 
   
   Mortgage-backed securities: 
   
   U.S. government agencies 
 $ 163  $ (38)  $      62  $ 73   $    260  $       (38
 ) 
Residential Œ nonagency
(a)
 3,339 (782) 
(245) (1,197) 1,115 
(871
 ) 
Commercial Œ nonagency
(a)
 2,487 (242) 
(325) 
(150) 1,770 
(313
 ) 
Total mortgage-backed securities 
5,989 (1,062) (508) (1,274) 3,145 
(1,222
 ) 
Obligations of U.S. states and 
municipalities 
2,641 
(22) 
(648) 
Š 1,971 
(123
 ) 
Non-U.S. government debt  securities
 707 
38 
(75) 
64 
734 
34
  Corporate debt securities 
5,280 
38 (3,416) 3,339 5,241 
(72
 ) 
Loans 
17,091 (871) (3,497) 
495 13,218 
(1,167
 ) 
Asset-backed securities 
7,106 1,436 
(378) 
(189) 7,975 
734
  Total debt instruments 
38,814 (443) (8,522) 2,435 32,284 
(1,816
 ) 
Equity securities 
1,380 (149) 
(512) 1,237 1,956 
(51
 ) 
Other  
1,226 
(79) 
(253) 
32 
926 
(119
 ) 
Total debt and equity instruments 
41,420 (671)
(c)
 (9,287) 3,704 35,166 
(1,986
 )(c)
 Net derivative receivables 
9,507 (11,406)
(c)
 (3,448) 16,699 11,352 
(10,835
 )(c)
 Available-for-sale securities: 
       Asset-backed securities 
11,447 
(2) 1,112 
175 12,732 
(48
 ) 
Other  
944 (269) 
302 
(516) 461 
43
  Total available-for-sale securities 
12,391 (271)
(d)
 1,414 
(341) 13,193 
(5
 )(d)
 Loans 
2,667 (448)
(c)
 (1,906) 677 
990 
(488
 )(c)
 Mortgage servicing rights 
9,403 5,807
(e)
 321 
Š 15,531 
5,807
 (e)
 Other assets: 
       Private equity investments 
6,369 (407)
(c)
 582 
19 6,563 
(369
 )(c)
 All other
(b)
 8,114 (676)
(f)
 2,439 
(356) 9,521 
(612
 )(f)
     Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2009 
(in millions)
 Fair value, 
January 1, 2009 
Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
(gains)/losses 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(g)
 Fair value, 
December 31, 
2009 
Change in 
unrealized 
(gains)/losses  
related to financial 
 instruments held at 
December 31, 2009
 Liabilities
(h)
:        
Deposits 
  $  1,235   $     47
(c)
   $   (870)   $     64   $    476 $       (36
 )(c)
 Other borrowed funds 
101 
(73)
(c)
 621 
(107) 542 
9 (c)
 Trading liabilities: 
       Debt and equity instruments 
288 
64
(c)
 (339) 
(3) 
10 
12
 (c)
 Accounts payable and other liabilities
 Š (55)
(c)
 410 
Š 355 
(29
 )(c)
 Beneficial interests issued by  
   consolidated VIEs 
Š 344
(c)
 (598) 
879 
625 
327
 (c)
 Long-term debt  
16,548 1,367
(c)
 (2,738) 3,110 18,287 
1,728
 (c)
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
166 
  Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2008 
(in millions)
 Fair value, 
January 1, 2008
 Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
gains/(losses) 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(g)
 Fair value, 
December 31, 
2008 
Change in  
unrealized 
gains/(losses)  
related to financial 
 instruments held  at
 December 31, 2008
 Assets:
        Trading assets: 
       Debt and equity instruments 
 $ 24,066 
 $ (12,805)
(c)
  $ 6,201 
 $  23,958  $ 41,420  $  (9,860
 )(c)
 Net derivative receivables 
633 4,556
(c)
 2,290 2,028 
9,507 
1,814
 (c)
 Available-for-sale securities 
101 (1,232)
(d)
 3,772 9,750 12,391 
(422
 )(d)
 Loans 
8,380 (1,547)
(c)
 12 (4,178) 
2,667 
(1,324
 )(c)
 Mortgage servicing rights 
8,632 (6,933)
(e)
 7,704 
Š 9,403 
(6,933
 )(e)
 Other assets: 
       Private equity investments 
6,763 (638)
(c)
 320 
(76) 
6,369 
(1,089
 )(c)
 All other
(b)
 5,978 (940)
(f)
 2,787 
289 
8,114 
(753
 )(f)
   Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2008 

(in millions)
 Fair value, 
January 1, 2008
 Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
(gains)/losses 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3
(g)
 Fair value, 
December 31, 
 2008 
Change in  
unrealized 
(gains)/losses  
related to financial 
instruments held  at
 December 31, 2008
 Liabilities
(h)
:   
     Deposits 
 $ 1,161  $ (57)
(c)
  $ 79  $ 52  $ 1,235  $      (69
 )(c)
 Other borrowed funds
   105   (7)
(c)
   53   (50)   101 
 (24
 )(c)
 Trading liabilities: 
      Debt and equity instruments   480   (73)
(c)
   (33)   (86)   288 
 (125
 )(c)
 Accounts payable and other liabilities
     25   (25)
(c)
   Š   Š   Š 
 Š
 Beneficial interests issued by 
consolidated VIEs 
  82   (24)
(c)
   (603)   545   Š 
 Š
 Long-term debt  
  21,938   (4,502)
(c)
   (1,717)   829   16,548 
(3,682
 )(c)
   Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended  
December 31, 2007 
(in millions)
 Fair value, 
January 1, 2007
 Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
gains/(losses) 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3 
Fair value, 
December 31, 
2007 
Change in  
unrealized 
gains/(losses)  
related to financial 
instruments held at 
December 31, 2007
 Assets:
      
 Trading assets: 
     
 Debt and equity instruments  $ 9,320  $ (916)
(c)
  $ 5,902 $  9,760  $ 24,066 
$    (912
 )(c)
 Net derivative receivables   (2,800)   1,674
(c)
   257 1,502   633   1,979
 (c)
 Available-for-sale securities   177   38
(d)
   (21) 
(93)   101   (5
 )(d)
 Loans 
  643   (346)
(c)
   8,013 
70   8,380   (36
 )(c)
 Mortgage servicing rights   7,546   (516)
(e)
   1,602 
Š   8,632   (516
 )(e)
 Other assets: 
     
  Private equity investments   5,493   4,051
(c)
   (2,764)  (17)   6,763    1,711
 (c)
 All other
(b)
   4,274   35
(f)
   1,196 
473   5,978   (21
 )(f)
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 167 
  Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
Year ended 
December 31, 2007 
(in millions)
 Fair value, 
January 1, 2007
 Total 
realized/ 
unrealized 
(gains)/losses 
Purchases, 
issuances 
settlements, net 
Transfers  
into and/or 
out of  
level 3 
Fair value, 
December 31,
 2007 
Change in  
unrealized 
(gains)/losses  
related to financial 
instruments held at 
December 31, 2007
  Liabilities
(h)
:   
     Deposits 
 $ 385   $     42
(c)
   $   667   $     67  $ 1,161 
$  38
 (c)
 Other borrowed funds
   Š   67
(c)
   34   4   105 
135
 (c)
 Trading liabilities: 
       Debt and equity instruments   32   (383)
(c)
   125   706   480 
734
 (c)
 Accounts payable and other liabilities
   Š   460
(c)
   (435)   Š   25 
25
 (c)
 Beneficial interests issued by 
consolidated VIEs 
  8   (6)
(c)
   (1)   81   82 
Š  Long-term debt    11,386   1,142
(c)
   6,633   2,777   21,938 
468
 (c)
 (a) For further discussion of residential and commercial MBS, see the ﬁMortgage-related exposures carried at fair valueﬂ section of this Note on pages 169Œ170. 
(b) Includes assets within accrued interest receivable and other assets at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  
(c) Reported in principal transactions revenue, except for changes in fair value for Retail Financial Services (ﬁRFSﬂ) mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell, 
which are reported in mortgage fees and related income. 
(d) Realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, as well as other-than-temporary impairment losses that are recorded in earnings, are reported in securities 
gains. Unrealized gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income. 
(e) Changes in fair value for RFS mortgage servicing rights are measured at fair value and reported in mortgage fees and related income. 
(f) Predominantly reported in other income. 

(g) Beginning January 1, 2008, all transfers into and/or out of level 3 are assumed to occur at the beginning of the reporting period. 

(h) Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of total Firm liabilities accounted for at fair value (including liabilities carried at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 29%, 25% 
and 17% at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis 
Certain assets, liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, the instruments 

are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances (for example, when  

there is evidence of impairment). The following tables present the financial instruments carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets by caption  

and level within the valuation hierarchy (as described above) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, for which a nonrecurring change in fair value  

has been recorded during the reporting period. 
  Fair value hierarchy 
December 31, 2008 (in millions) 
Level 1 
Level 2 
  Level 3 Total fair value
 Loans retained
(a)
  $ Š  $ 2,344  $ 345 $   2,689
Loans held-for-sale
(b)
   Š   2,647   3,654 6,301
Total loans 
  Š   4,991   3,999     8,990
Other real estate owned 
  Š   706   103 
809
Other assets 
  Š   1,057   188 
1,245
Total other assets 
  Š   1,763   291 
2,054
Total assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
  $ Š  $ 6,754  $ 4,290 
$ 11,044
Accounts payable and other liabilities
(c)
  $ Š  $ 212  $ 98 
$      310
Total liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
  $ Š  $ 212  $ 98 
$      310
(a) Reflects delinquent mortgage and home equity loans where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral. 
(b) Predominantly includes leveraged lending loans carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the lower of cost or fair value. 
(c) Represents, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value adjustment associated with $648 million and $1.5 billion, respectively, of unfunded held-for-sale lending-
related commitments within the leveraged lending portfolio.
 Fair value hierarchy 
December 31, 2009
 (in millions) 
      Level 1 
Level 2 
 Level 3 Total fair value
 Loans retained
(a)
  $ Š  $ 4,544  $ 1,137      $  5,681
 Loans held-for-sale
(b)
   Š   601   1,029   1,630
 Total loans 
  Š   5,145   2,166   7,311
 Other real estate owned 
  Š   307   387   694
 Other assets 
  Š   Š   184   184
 Total other assets 
  Š   307   571   878
 Total assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
  $ Š  $ 5,452  $ 2,737  $ 8,189
 Accounts payable and other liabilities
(c)
  $ Š  $ 87  $ 39  $ 126
 Total liabilities at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
  $ Š  $ 87  $ 39  $ 126
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
168 
Nonrecurring fair value changes  
The following table presents the total change in value of financial 

instruments for which a fair value adjustment has been included  

in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended 

December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, related to financial instru-

ments held at these dates. 
 Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions) 
  2009
   2008 2007 
Loans retained 
 $ (3,550)
   $ (1,159)  $   (218
 ) 
Loans held-for-sale 
  (389)
   (2,728) (502) 
Total loans 
  (3,939)
   (3,887)   (720) 
Other assets 
  (104)
   (685) (161) 
Accounts payable and  
other liabilities 
  31
   (285) 2 
Total nonrecurring fair 
 value gains/(losses)  $ (4,012) 
 $ (4,857) $  (879) 
In the above table, loans predominantly include: (1) write-downs of 
delinquent mortgage and home equity loans where impairment is 
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral; and (2) the 
change in fair value for leveraged lending loans carried on the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at the lower of cost or fair value. 

Accounts payable and other liabilities predominantly include the 

change in fair value for unfunded lending-related commitments 

within the leveraged lending portfolio. 
Level 3 analysis  
Level 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a nonre-

curring basis) were 6% of total Firm assets at both December 31, 

2009 and 2008. Level 3 assets were $130.4 billion at December 

31, 2009, reflecting a decrease of $7.3 billion in 2009, due to the 

following:  
· A net decrease of $6.3 billion in gross derivative receivables, 
predominantly driven by the tightening of credit spreads. Offset-

ting a portion of the decrease were net transfers into level 3 dur-

ing the year, most notably a transfer into level 3 of $41.3 billion 

of structured credit derivative receivables, and a transfer out of 

level 3 of $17.7 billion of single-name CDS on ABS.  The fair 
value of the receivables transferred into level 3 during the year 
was $22.1 billion at December 31, 2009.  The fair value of struc-

tured credit derivative payables with a similar underlying risk 

profile to the previously noted receivables, that are also classified 

in level 3, was $12.5 billion at December 31, 2009. These de-

rivatives payables offset the receivables, as they are modeled 
and valued the same way with the same parameters and inputs 
as the assets. 
· A net decrease of $3.5 billion in loans, predominantly driven by 

sales of leveraged loans and transfers of similar loans to level 2, 

due to increased price transparency for such assets. Leveraged 

loans are typically classified as held-for-sale and measured at the 
lower of cost or fair value and, therefore, included in the nonre-
curring fair value assets. 
· A net decrease of $6.3 billion in trading assets Œ debt and equity 

instruments, primarily in loans and residential- and commercial-

MBS, principally driven by sales and markdowns, and by sales and 

unwinds of structured transactions with hedge funds. The declines 
were partially offset by a transfer from level 2 to level 3 of certain 
structured notes reflecting lower liquidity and less pricing ob-
servability, and also increases in the fair value of other ABS. 
· A net increase of $6.1 billion in MSRs, due to increases in the 
fair value of the asset, related primarily to market interest rate 

and other changes affecting the Firm's estimate of future pre-

payments, as well as sales in RFS of originated loans for which 

servicing rights were retained. These increases were offset par-

tially by servicing portfolio runoff. 
· A net increase of $1.9 billion in accrued interest and accounts 
receivable related to increases in subordinated retained interests 
from the Firm™s credit card securitization activities. 
Gains and Losses 
Gains and losses included in the tables for 2009 and 2008 included:  
2009 · $11.4 billion of net losses on derivatives, primarily related to the 
tightening of credit spreads. 
· Net losses on tradingŒdebt and equity instruments of $671 
million, consisting of $2.1 billion of losses, primarily related to 

residential and commercial loans and MBS, principally driven by 
markdowns and sales, partially offset by gains of $1.4 billion, 
reflecting increases in the fair value of other ABS. (For a further 

discussion of the gains and losses on mortgage-related expo-

sures, inclusive of risk management activities, see the ﬁMort-
gage-related exposures carried at fair valueﬂ discussion below.)  
· $5.8 billion of gains on MSRs.  
· $1.4 billion of losses related to structured note liabilities, pre-

dominantly due to volatility in the equity markets.  
2008 · Losses on trading-debt and equity instruments of approximately 
$12.8 billion, principally from mortgage-related transactions and 
auction-rate securities. 
· Losses of $6.9 billion on MSRs. 
· Losses of approximately $3.9 billion on leveraged loans.  
· Net gains of $4.6 billion related to derivatives, principally due to 

changes in credit spreads and rate curves. 
· Gains of $4.5 billion related to structured notes, principally due 
to significant volatility in the fixed income, commodities and eq-
uity markets. 
· Private equity losses of $638 million. 
For further information on changes in the fair value of the MSRs, 

see Note 17 on pages 223Œ224 of this Annual Report.
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 169 
Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair value 
The following table provides a summary of the Firm™s mortgage-related exposures, including the impact of risk management activities.  

These exposures include all mortgage-related securities and loans carried at fair value regardless of their classification within the fair value  

hierarchy, and that are carried at fair value through earnings or at the lower of cost or fair value. The table excludes securities held in the 

available-for-sale portfolio, which are reported on page 170 of this Note. 
Exposure as of 
   December 31, 2009
  Exposure as of 
   
December 31, 2008 
 Net gains/(losses)
(e)
  (in millions) 
Gross 
Net of risk  
management 
activities
(d)
 Gross 
Net of risk 
management 
activities
(d)
 Reported  
in income Œ 
 year ended  
December 31, 
  
2009
 Reported 
 in income Œ 
 year ended 
 December 31, 
2008 
U.S. Residential Mortgage: 
(a)(b)(c)
  
      Prime 
  $ 3,482  $ 3,482 
 $ 4,612  $ 4,612 
   Alt-A 
  3,030   3,030 
  3,934   3,917 
      6,512   6,512 
  8,546   8,529 
 $ 537 
 $ (4,093
 ) 
Subprime 
  569   137 
  941   (28) 
  (76) 
(369
)) 
Non-U.S. Residential
(c)
   1,702   1,321 
  1,591   951 
  86 
  (292
 ) 
Commercial Mortgage:
        Securities 
  2,337   1,898 
  2,836   1,438 
  257 
  (792
 ) 
Loans 
  2,699   2,035 
  4,338   2,179 
  (333) 
  (752
 ) 
(a) Excluded at December 31, 2009 and 2008, are certain mortgages and mortgage-related assets that are carried at fair value and recorded in trading assets, such as: (i) U.S. 
government agency securities that are liquid and of high credit quality of $41.7 billion and $58.9 billion, respectively; (ii) conforming mortgage loans originated with the  
intent to sell to U.S. government agencies of $11.1 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively; and (iii) reverse mortgages of $4.5 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, for which  
the principal risk is mortality risk. Also excluded are MSRs, which are reported in Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 of this Annual Report.  
(b) Excluded certain mortgage-related financing transactions, which are collateralized by mortgage-related assets, of $4.1 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 2009 
and 2008, respectively. These financing transactions are excluded from the table, as they are accounted for on an accrual basis of accounting. For certain financings 

deemed to be impaired, impairment is measured and recognized based on the fair value of the collateral. Of these financing transactions, $136 million and $1.2 billion 
were considered impaired at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(c) Total residential mortgage exposures at December 31, 2009 and 2008, include: (i) securities of $3.4 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively; (ii) loans carried at fair value 
or the lower of cost or fair value of $5.0 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively; and (iii) forward purchase commitments included in derivative receivables of $358 million 
and $1.2 billion, respectively.  
(d) Amounts reflect the effects of derivatives used to manage the credit risk of the gross exposures arising from cash-based instruments. The amounts are presented on a 
bond- or loan-equivalent (notional) basis. Derivatives are excluded from the gross exposure, as they are principally used for risk management purposes.  
(e)  Net gains and losses include all revenue related to the positions (i.e., interest income, changes in fair value of the assets, changes in fair value of the related risk man-
agement positions, and interest expense related to the liabilities funding those positions). 
Residential mortgages  
Classification and Valuation
 Œ Residential mortgage loans and MBS 
are classified within level 2 or level 3 of the valuation hierarchy, 
depending on the level of liquidity and activity in the markets for a 

particular product. Level 3 assets include nonagency residential 

whole loans and subordinated nonagency residential MBS. Prod-
ucts that continue to have reliable price transparency as evidenced 
by consistent market transactions, such as senior nonagency 
securities, as well as agency securities, are classified in level 2.  
For those products classified within level 2 of the valuation hierar-
chy, the Firm estimates the value of such instruments using a 

combination of observed transaction prices, independent pricing 

services and relevant broker quotes. Consideration is given to the 

nature of the quotes (e.g., indicative or firm) and the relationship 
of recently evidenced market activity to the prices provided from 
independent pricing services. 
When relevant market activity is not occurring or is limited, the fair 
value is estimated as follows:  
Residential mortgage loans
 Œ Fair value of residential mortgage 
loans is estimated by projecting the expected cash flows and 
discounting those cash flows at a rate reflective of current market 

liquidity. To estimate the projected cash flows (inclusive of as-

sumptions of prepayment, default rates and loss severity), specific 
consideration is given to both borrower-specific and other market 

factors, including, but not limited to: the borrower™s FICO score; 

the type of collateral supporting the loan; an estimate of the 

current value of the collateral supporting the loan; the level of 

documentation for the loan; and market-derived expectations for 

home price appreciation or depreciation in the respective geogra-

phy of the borrower.  
Residential mortgage-backed securities
 Œ Fair value of residential 
MBS is estimated considering the value of the collateral and the 

specific attributes of the securities held by the Firm. The value of 

the collateral pool supporting the securities is analyzed using the 

same techniques and factors described above for residential mort-

gage loans, albeit in a more aggregated manner across the pool. 

For example, average FICO scores, average delinquency rates, 
average loss severities and prepayment rates, among other met-
rics, may be evaluated. In addition, as each securitization vehicle 

distributes cash in a manner or order that is predetermined at the 

inception of the vehicle, the priority in which each particular MBS 

is allocated cash flows, and the level of credit enhancement that is 

in place to support those cash flows, are key considerations in 
deriving the value of residential MBS. Finally, the risk premium that 
investors demand for securitized products in the current market is 

factored into the valuation. To benchmark its valuations, the Firm 

looks to transactions for similar instruments and utilizes independ-

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
170 
ent pricing provided by third-party vendors, broker quotes and 
relevant market indices, such as the ABX index, as applicable. 

While none of those sources are solely indicative of fair value, they 

serve as directional indicators for the appropriateness of the Firm™s 

estimates.  
Commercial mortgages  
Commercial mortgages are loans to companies backed by com-
mercial real estate. Commercial MBS are securities collateralized 

by a pool of commercial mortgages. Typically, commercial mort-

gages have lock-out periods where the borrower is restricted from 

prepaying the loan for a specified timeframe, or periods where 

there are disincentives for the borrower to prepay the loan due to 
prepayment penalties. These features reduce prepayment risk for 
commercial mortgages relative to that of residential mortgages.  
Classification and Valuation
 While commercial mortgages and commercial MBS are classified 
within level 2 or level 3 of the valuation hierarchy, depending on 

the level of liquidity and activity in the markets, the majority of 

these mortgages, including both loans and lower-rated securities, 

are currently classified in level 3. Level 2 assets include fixed-rate 

commercial MBS.  
Commercial mortgage loans
 Œ Fair value of commercial mortgage 
loans is estimated by projecting the expected cash flows and 

discounting those cash flows at a rate reflective of current market 

liquidity. To estimate the projected cash flows, consideration is 

given to both borrower-specific and other market factors, includ-
ing, but not limited to: the borrower™s debt-to-service coverage 

ratio; the type of commercial property (e.g., retail, office, lodging, 

multi-family, etc.); an estimate of the current loan-to-value ratio; 

and market-derived expectations for property price appreciation or 

depreciation in the respective geographic location. 
Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 Œ When relevant market 
activity is not present or is limited, the value of commercial MBS is 

estimated considering the value of the collateral and the specific 

attributes of the securities held by the Firm. The value of the collat-

eral pool supporting the securities is analyzed using the same tech-

niques and factors described above for the valuation of commercial 

mortgage loans, albeit in a more aggregated manner across the 
pool. For example, average delinquencies, loan or geographic con-
centrations, and average debt-service coverage ratios, among other 

metrics, may be evaluated. In addition, as each securitization vehicle 

distributes cash in a manner or order that is predetermined at the 

inception of the vehicle, the priority in which each particular MBS 

security is allocated cash flows, and the level of credit enhancement 
that is in place to support those cash flows, are key considerations in 
deriving the value of commercial MBS. Finally, the risk premium that 

investors demand for securitized products in the current market is 

factored into the valuation. To benchmark its valuations, the Firm 

utilizes independent pricing provided by third-party vendors, and 

broker quotes, as applicable. While none of those sources are solely 
indicative of fair value, they serve as directional indicators for the 
appropriateness of the Firm™s estimates.  
The following table presents mortgage-related activities within the available-for-sale securities portfolio. 
As of or for the year ended December 31,   Exposures  
Net gains/(losses) reported  
 in income during the year
(b) 
 Unrealized gains/(losses) included  
in other comprehensive  
income (pretax) during the year 
    
   
   
  (in millions) 
    2009 
         2008 
     2009 
       2008 
    2009 
          
2008
 Mortgage-backed securities: 
      U.S. government agencies 
 $ 167,898
  $ 117,385 
 $ 1,232
  $ 476 
 $ 849
  $ 
2,076
 Residential: 
        Prime and Alt-A 
  4,523
   6,895 
  (364)
   (32) 
  856
  (1,965
) 
  Subprime 
  17
   194 
  (49)
   (89) 
  19
   
(32
) 
  Non-U.S. 
  10,258
   2,075 
  (1)
   2 
  412
   
(156
) 
Commercial 
  4,590
   3,939 
  (9)
   Š 
  744
   
(684
) 
Total mortgage-backed securities  $ 187,286
  $  130,488 
 $ 809
  $ 357 
 $ 2,880
  $ 
(761
) 
U.S. government agencies
(a)
   29,562
   9,657 
  5
   11 
  (55)
   
(54
) 
(a) Represents direct mortgage-related obligations of government-sponsored enterprises. 
(b) Excludes related net interest income.
Exposures in the table above include $216.8 billion and $140.1 
billion of MBS classified as available-for-sale in the Firm™s Consoli-

dated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respec-

tively. These investments are primarily used as part of the Firm™s 

centralized risk management of structural interest rate risk (the 

sensitivity of the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets to changes in 

interest rates). Changes in the Firm™s structural interest rate posi-

tion, as well as changes in the overall interest rate environment, 
are continually monitored, resulting in periodic repositioning of 

securities classified as available-for-sale. Given that this portfolio is 

primarily used to manage the Firm™s structural interest rate risk, 

nearly all of these securities are either backed by U.S. government 

agencies or are rated ﬁAAA.ﬂ 
For additional information on investment securities in the avail-
able-for-sale portfolio, see Note 11 on pages 195Œ199 of this 

Annual Report.
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 171 
Credit adjustments  
When determining the fair value of an instrument, it may be 

necessary to record a valuation adjustment to arrive at an exit 

price under U.S. GAAP. Valuation adjustments include, but are 

not limited to, amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and 

the Firm™s own creditworthiness. The market™s view of the Firm™s 

credit quality is reflected in credit spreads observed in the CDS 

market. For a detailed discussion of the valuation adjustments 

the Firm considers, see the valuation discussion at the beginning 

of this Note. 
The following table provides the credit adjustments, excluding the 
effect of any hedging activity, as reflected within the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets of the Firm as of the dates indicated. 
December 31,  
(in millions)  
          
 2009
 2008
  Derivative receivables balance 
 $ 80,210
 $  162,626
  Derivatives CVA
(a)
   (3,697)
 (9,566
 ) 
Derivative payables balance 
  60,125
 121,604
  Derivatives DVA 
  (629)
 (1,389
 ) 
Structured notes balance
(b)(c)
   59,064
 67,340
  Structured notes DVA
   (840)
 (2,413
 ) 
(a) Derivatives CVA, gross of hedges, includes results managed by credit portfo-
lio and other lines of business within IB. 
(b) Structured notes are recorded within long-term debt, other borrowed funds, 
or deposits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, based on the tenor and le-
gal form of the note.  
(c)  Structured notes are carried at fair value based on the Firm™s election under 
the fair value option. For further information on these elections, see Note 4 
on pages 173Œ175 of this Annual Report 
The following table provides the impact of credit adjustments on 
earnings in the respective periods, excluding the effect of any 

hedging activity. 
Year ended December 31, 
 (in millions)  
  2009
   2008
   2007 
Credit adjustments:  
     Derivatives CVA
(a)
  $ 5,869
  $ (7,561)
  $  (803) 
   Derivatives DVA 
  (760)
      789
   514 
   Structured notes DVA
(b)
   (1,573)
   1,211
   806 
(a) Derivatives CVA, gross of hedges, includes results managed by credit portfo-
lio and other lines of business within IB.  
(b) Structured notes are carried at fair value based on the Firm™s election under 
the fair value option. For further information on these elections, see Note 4 
on pages 173
Œ175
 of this Annual Report. 
Fair value measurement transition 
In connection with the initial adoption of FASB guidance on fair 

value measurement, the Firm recorded the following on January 1, 

2007:  · a cumulative effect increase to retained earnings of $287 mil-
lion, primarily related to the release of profit previously deferred 

in accordance with previous FASB guidance for certain deriva-

tive contracts;  
· an increase to pretax income of $166 million ($103 million 

after-tax) related to the incorporation of the Firm™s creditwor-

thiness in the valuation of liabilities recorded at fair value; and  
· an increase to pretax income of $464 million ($288 million 

after-tax) related to valuations of nonpublic private equity in-

vestments.  
Additional disclosures about the fair value of financial 

instruments (including financial instruments not carried at 

fair value) 

U.S. GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of certain 

financial instruments, and the methods and significant assump-

tions used to estimate their fair value. Financial instruments within 

the scope of these disclosure requirements are included in the 

following table; other financial instruments and all nonfinancial 

instruments are excluded from the scope. Accordingly, the fair 

value disclosures required provide only a partial estimate of the fair 

value of JPMorgan Chase. For example, the Firm has developed 

long-term relationships with its customers through its deposit base 

and credit card accounts, commonly referred to as core deposit 

intangibles and credit card relationships. In the opinion of man-

agement, these items, in the aggregate, add significant value to 

JPMorgan Chase, but their fair value is not disclosed in this Note.  
Financial instruments for which carrying value approximates  
fair value  
Certain financial instruments that are not carried at fair value on 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets are carried at amounts that 

approximate fair value, due to their short-term nature and gen-

erally negligible credit risk. These instruments include: cash and 

due from banks; deposits with banks, federal funds sold, securi-

ties purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed 

with short-dated maturities; short-term receivables and accrued 

interest receivable; commercial paper; federal funds purchased, 

and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements with 

short-dated maturities; other borrowed funds (excluding ad-

vances from Federal Home Loan Banks); accounts payable; and 

accrued liabilities. In addition, U.S. GAAP requires that the fair 

value of deposit liabilities with no stated maturity (i.e., demand, 

savings and certain money market deposits) be equal to their 

carrying value; recognition of the inherent funding value of these 

instruments is not allowed.  
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
172 
The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of financial assets and liabilities. 
   2009 
   2008 
 December 31, (in billions) 
Carrying 
value 
Estimated 
fair value 
Appreciation/
 (depreciation) 
Carrying 
value 
Estimated 
fair value 
Appreciation/
(depreciation)
 Financial assets 
      Assets for which fair value approximates carrying value 
$ 89.4 $ 89.4  $ Š 
 $ 165.0   $ 165.0  $ 
Š   
Accrued interest and accounts receivable (included $5.0 
and $3.1 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively) 
  67.4   67.4   Š 
  61.0   61.0   
Š Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale 
agreements (included $20.5 and $20.8 at fair value at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  195.4   195.4   Š 
  203.1   203.1   
Š Securities borrowed (included $7.0 and $3.4 at fair value 
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  119.6   119.6   Š 
  124.0   124.0   
Š Trading assets 
  411.1   411.1   Š 
  510.0   510.0   
Š Securities (included $360.4 and $205.9 at fair value at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  360.4   360.4   Š 
  205.9   205.9   
Š Loans (included $1.4 and $7.7 at fair value at December 
31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  601.9   598.3   (3.6) 
  721.7   700.0   
(21.7
) 
Mortgage servicing rights at fair value 
  15.5   15.5   Š 
  9.4   9.4   
Š Other (included $19.2 and $29.2 at fair value at Decem
ber 
31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  73.4   73.2   (0.2) 
  83.0   83.1   
0.1
 Total financial assets
 $ 1,934.1 $ 1,930.3  $ (3.8) 
 $ 2,083.1   $ 2,061.5  $ 
(21.6
) 
Financial liabilities
    
   
Deposits (included $4.5 and $5.6 at fair value at Decem
ber 
31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
$ 938.4 $ 939.5  $ (1.1) 
 $ 1,009.3   $ 1,010.2  $ 
(0.9
) 
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold 
under repurchase agreements (included $3.4 and  
$3.0 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008,  
respectively) 
  261.4   261.4   Š 
  192.5   192.5   
Š Commercial paper 
  41.8   41.8   Š 
  37.8   37.8   
Š Other borrowed funds (included $5.6 and $14.7 at fair 
value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  55.7   55.9   (0.2) 
  132.4   134.1   
(1.7
) 
Trading liabilities 
  125.1   125.1   Š 
  166.9   166.9   
Š Accounts payable and other liabilities (included $0.4 and 
zero at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008,  
respectively) 
  136.8   136.8   Š 
  167.2   167.2   
Š Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs (included 
$1.4 and $1.7 at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 
2008, respectively) 
  15.2   15.2   Š 
  10.6   10.5   
0.1
 Long-term debt and junior subordinated deferrable inter
est 
debentures (included $49.0 and $58.2 at fair value at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) 
  266.3   268.4   (2.1) 
  270.7   262.1   
8.6
 Total financial liabilities
 $ 1,840.7 $ 1,844.1  $ (3.4) 
 $ 1,987.4   $ 1,981.3  $ 
6.1
 Net (depreciation)/appreciation
    $ (7.2) 
   $ 
(15.5
) 
 The majority of the Firm™s unfunded lending-related commitments 
are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consoli-

dated Balance Sheets, nor are they actively traded. The estimated 

fair values of the Firm™s wholesale lending-related commitments at 

December 31, 2009 and 2008, were liabilities of $1.3 billion and 

$7.5 billion, respectively. The Firm does not estimate the fair value of 

consumer lending-related commitments. In many cases, the Firm can 

reduce or cancel these commitments by providing the borrower prior 

notice or, in some cases, without notice as permitted by law. 
Trading assets and liabilities 
Trading assets include debt and equity instruments held for trading 

purposes that JPMorgan Chase owns (ﬁlongﬂ positions), certain 

loans for which the Firm manages on a fair value basis and has 
elected the fair value option, and physical commodities inventories 

that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value. Trading 

liabilities include debt and equity instruments that the Firm has sold 

to other parties but does not own (ﬁshortﬂ positions). The Firm is 

obligated to purchase instruments at a future date to cover the 

short positions. Included in trading assets and trading liabilities are 

the reported receivables (unrealized gains) and payables (unrealized 

losses) related to derivatives. Trading assets and liabilities are 

carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For a 

discussion of the valuation and a summary of trading assets and 

trading liabilities, including derivative receivables and payables, see 

Note 4 on pages 173Œ175 and Note 5 on pages 175Œ183 of this 

Annual Report. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 173 
Trading assets and liabilities average balances  
Average trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods indicated. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
  2009
   2008   2007
 Trading assets Œ debt and equity instruments 
  $ 318,063
   $ 384,102  $ 381,415
 Trading assets Œ derivative receivables 
  110,457
   121,417   65,439
 Trading liabilities Œ debt and equity instruments
(a)
   $   60,224
   $   78,841  $   94,737
 Trading liabilities Œ derivative payables 
  77,901
   93,200   65,198
 (a) Primarily represent securities sold, not yet purchased. 
Note 4 Œ Fair value option 
The fair value option provides an option to elect fa
ir value as an 
alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial 
liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and written loan com-

mitments not previously carried at fair value.  
Elections 
Elections were made by the Firm to: 
· mitigate income statement volatility caused by the differences in 

the measurement basis of elected instruments (for example, cer-

tain instruments elected were previously accounted for on an 

accrual basis) while the associated risk management arrange-

ments are accounted for on a fair value basis; 
· eliminate the complexities of applying certain accounting models 

(e.g., hedge accounting or bifurcation accounting for hybrid in-

struments); and 
· better reflect those instruments that are managed on a fair value 

basis. 
 Elections include: 

· Securities financing arrangements with an embedded derivative 
and/or a maturity of greater than one year.  
· Loans purchased or originated as part of securitization ware-

housing activity, subject to bifurcation accounting, or managed 

on a fair value basis. 
· Structured notes issued as part of IB™s client-driven activities. 

(Structured notes are financial instruments that contain embed-

ded derivatives.) 
· Certain tax credits and other equity investments acquired as part 

of the Washington Mutual transaction. 
The cumulative effect on retained earnings of the adoption of the 

fair value option on January 1, 2007, was $199 million. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
174 
Changes in fair value under the fair value option election 
The following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 

2009, 2008 and 2007, for items for which the fair value option was elected. Profit and loss information for related risk management instru-

ments, which are required to be measured at fair value, are not included in the table.
   2009
   
2008  
   
2007
  December 31, (in millions) 
Principal 
transactions
 Other 
income 
Total changes 
 in fair value 
recorded 
Principal 
transactions 
Other 
income 
Total changes 
 in fair value 
recorded 
Principal 
transactions
 Other 
income 
Total changes 
 in fair value 
recorded 
Federal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements 
  $ (553)
 $     Š 
  $    (553) 
 $ 1,139 
 $ Š 
 $ 1,139  $ 580   $ Š  $     580 
Securities borrowed  
82 Š 82 
29 Š 29 Š Š Š 
Trading assets: 
    
   
  Debt and equity instruments, 
   excluding loans  
619 25
(c)
 644 
(870) (58)
(c)
 (928) 421 (1)
(c)
 420 
 Loans reported as trading assets:   
    
   
         Changes in instrument- 
            specific credit risk  
(300)
 (177)
(c)
 (477) 
(9,802) (283)
(c)
 (10,085) (517)
 (157)
(c)
 (674) 
        Other changes in fair value  
1,132 3,119
(c)
 4,251 
696 1,178
(c)
 1,874 188 1,033
(c)
 1,221 
Loans:  
     
   
  Changes in instrument-specific  
   credit risk  
(78)
 Š (78) 
(1,991) Š (1,991) 102 Š 
102 
     Other changes in fair value  
(343)
 Š (343) 
(42) Š 
(42) 40 Š 
40 
Other assets 
Š (731)
(d)
 (731) 
Š (660)
(d)
 (660) Š 30
(d)
 30 
Deposits
(a)
 (766)
 Š (766) 
(132) Š (132) (906)
 Š (906) 
Federal funds purchased and securities 
loaned or sold under repurchase 
agreements  
116  Š 116 
(127) Š (127) (78)
 Š (78) 
Other borrowed funds
(a)
  
(1,277)
 Š (1,277) 
1,888 Š 1,888 (412)
 Š (412) 
Trading liabilities 
(3)
 Š (3) 
35 Š 
35 (17)
 Š (17) 
Accounts payable and other liabilities 
64 Š 64 
Š Š 
Š (460)
 Š (460) 
Beneficial interests issued by  
consolidated VIEs  
(351)
  Š (351) 
355 Š 355 (228)
 Š (228) 
Long-term debt: 
     
   
 Changes in instrument-specific  
   credit risk
(a)
  
(1,543)
  Š (1,543) 
1,174 Š 1,174 771 Š 
771 
 Other changes in fair value
(b)
  
(2,393)
  Š (2,393) 
16,202 Š 16,202 (2,985)
 Š (2,985) 
(a) Total changes in instrument-specific credit risk related to structured notes were $(1.6) billion, $1.2 billion and $806 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 
2007, respectively. These totals include adjustments for structured notes classified within deposits and other borrowed funds, as well as long-term debt. 
(b) Structured notes are debt instruments with embedded derivatives that are tailored to meet a client™s need for derivative risk in funded form. The embedded derivative is the 
primary driver of risk. The 2008 gain included in ﬁOther changes in fair valueﬂ results from a significant decline in the value of certain structured notes where the embedded 
derivative is principally linked to either equity indices or commodity prices, both of which declined sharply during the third quarter of 2008. Although the risk associated with 
the structured notes is actively managed, the gains reported in this table do not include the income statement impact of such risk management instruments. 
(c) Reported in mortgage fees and related income. 
(d) Reported in other income. 
Determination of instrument-specific credit risk for items 
for which a fair value election was made 

The following describes how the gains and losses included in earnings 
during 2009, 2008 and 2007, which were attributable to changes in 
instrument-specific credit risk, were determined. 
· Loans and lending-related commitments: For floating-rate instru-
ments, all changes in value are attributed to instrument-specific 

credit risk. For fixed-rate instruments, an allocation of the changes 

in value for the period is made between those changes in value 

that are interest rate-related and changes in value that are credit-

related. Allocations are generally based on an analysis of bor-
rower-specific credit spread and recovery information, where 
available, or benchmarking to similar entities or industries. 
· Long-term debt: Changes in value attributable to instrument-
specific credit risk were derived principally from observable 
changes in the Firm™s credit spread. 
· Resale and repurchase agreements, securities borrowed agree-
ments and securities lending agreements: Generally, for these 
types of agreements, there is a requirement that collateral be 
maintained with a market value equal to or in excess of the prin-

cipal amount loaned; as a result, there would be no adjustment or 

an immaterial adjustment for instrument-specific credit risk related 

to these agreements. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 175 
Difference between aggregate fair value and aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding 
 The following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregate remaining contractual principal balance out-
standing as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, for loans and long-term debt for which the fair value option has been elected. The loans were 

classified in trading assets Œ loans or in loans. 
   
2009 
   2008 
         December 31, (in millions)
 Contractual 
principal 
outstanding Fair value 
Fair value 
over/(under) 
contractual 
principal 
outstanding 
Contractual 
principal 
outstanding Fair value 
Fair value 
over/(under) 
contractual 
principal 
outstanding 
 Loans
        Performing loans 90 days or more past due 
          Loans reported as trading assets 
 $ Š  $ Š  $ Š 
 $ Š  $ Š  $ 
Š    Loans 
  Š   Š   Š 
  Š   Š   
Š Nonaccrual loans 
         Loans reported as trading assets 
  7,264   2,207   (5,057) 
  5,156   1,460   
(3,696
) 
   Loans 
  1,126   151   (975) 
  189   51   
(138
) 
Subtotal
   8,390   2,358   (6,032) 
  5,345   1,511   
(3,834
) 
All other performing loans 
         Loans reported as trading assets 
  35,095   29,341   (5,754) 
  36,336   30,342   
(5,994
) 
   Loans 
  2,147   1,000   (1,147) 
  10,206   7,441   
(2,765
) 
Total loans
  $ 45,632  $ 32,699  $ (12,933) 
 $ 51,887  $ 39,294  $ 
(12,593
) 
Long-term debt
    
   
Principal protected debt 
 $ 26,765
(b)
  $ 26,378  $   (387) 
 $ 27,043
(b)
  $ 26,241  $ 
(802
) 
Nonprincipal protected debt
(a)
   NA   22,594   NA 
  NA   31,973   
NA
 Total long-term debt 
   NA   48,972   NA 
  NA   58,214   
NA
 Long-term beneficial interests
    
   
Principal protected debt 
 $ 90  $ 90  $ Š 
 $ Š  $ Š  $ 
Š Nonprincipal protected debt
(a)
   NA   1,320   NA 
  NA   1,735   
NA
 Total long-term beneficial interests
   NA  $ 1,410   NA 
  NA  $ 1,735   
NA
 (a) Remaining contractual principal is not applicable to nonprincipal-protected notes. Unlike principal-protected notes, for which the Firm is obligated to return a stated 
amount of principal at the maturity of the note, nonprincipal-protected notes do not obligate the Firm to return a stated amount of principal at maturity, but to return 
an amount based on the performance of an underlying variable or derivative feature embedded in the note. 
(b) Where the Firm issues principal-protected zero-coupon or discount notes, the balance reflected as the remaining contractual principal is the final principal payment at 
maturity.
Note 5 Œ Derivative instruments 
Derivative instruments enable end-users to modify or
 mitigate 
exposure to credit or market risks. Counterparties to a derivative 
contract seek to obtain risks and rewards similar to those that 

could be obtained from purchasing or selling a related cash instru-

ment without having to exchange the full purchase or sales price 

upfront. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives for custom-

ers and also uses derivatives to hedge or manage risks of market 

exposures. The majority of the Firm™s derivatives are entered into 

for market-making purposes.  
Trading derivatives  
The Firm transacts in a variety of derivatives in its trading portfolios 

to meet the needs of customers (both dealers and clients) and to 

generate revenue through this trading activity. The Firm makes 

markets in derivatives for its customers (collectively, ﬁclient deriva-

tivesﬂ), seeking to mitigate or modify interest rate, credit, foreign 

exchange, equity and commodity risks. The Firm actively manages 

the risks from its exposure to these derivatives by entering into 

other derivative transactions or by purchasing or selling other 

financial instruments that partially or fully offset the exposure from 

client derivatives. The Firm also seeks to earn a spread between the 

client derivatives and offsetting positions, and from the remaining 

open risk positions. 
Risk management derivatives  
The Firm manages its market exposures using various derivative 

instruments.  
Interest rate contracts are used to minimize fluctuations in earnings 
that are caused by changes in interest rates. Fixed-rate assets and 

liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market value as interest rates 

change. Similarly, interest income and expense increase or decrease 

as a result of variable-rate assets and liabilities resetting to current 

market rates, and as a result of the repayment and subsequent 

origination or issuance of fixed-rate assets and liabilities at current 

market rates. Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are 

related to such assets and liabilities are expected to substantially 

offset this variability in earnings. The Firm generally uses interest 

rate swaps, forwards and futures to manage the impact of interest 

rate fluctuations on earnings.  
Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage the foreign 
exchange risk associated with certain foreign currencyŒ

denominated (i.e., non-U.S.) assets and liabilities and forecasted 

transactions, as well as the Firm™s net investments in certain non-

U.S. subsidiaries or branches whose functional currencies are not 

the U.S. dollar. As a result of fluctuations in foreign currencies, the 

U.S. dollarŒequivalent values of the foreign currencyŒdenominated 

assets and liabilities or forecasted revenue or expense increase or 

decrease. Gains or losses on the derivative instruments related to 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
176 
these foreign currencyŒdenominated assets or liabilities, or forecasted 
transactions, are expected to substantially offset this variability.  
Commodities based forward and futures contracts are used to 
manage the price risk of certain inventory, including gold and base 

metals, in the Firm's commodities portfolio. Gains or losses on the 

forwards and futures are expected to substantially offset the depre-

ciation or appreciation of the related inventory. Also in the com-

modities portfolio, electricity and natural gas futures and forwards 

contracts are used to manage price risk associated with energy-

related tolling and load-serving contracts and investments.  
The Firm uses credit derivatives to manage the counterparty credit 
risk associated with loans and lending-related commitments. Credit 

derivatives compensate the purchaser when the entity referenced in 

the contract experiences a credit event, such as bankruptcy or a 

failure to pay an obligation when due. For a further discussion of 

credit derivatives, see the discussion in the Credit derivatives sec-

tion on pages 181Œ183 of this Annual Report.  
For more information about risk management derivatives, see the 
risk management derivatives gains and losses table on page 180 of 

this Annual Report.  
Notional amount of derivative contracts 
The following table summarizes the notional amount of derivative 

contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
 Notional amounts
(c)
 December 31, (in billions) 
 2009 
  2008
Interest rate contracts 
  Swaps
(a)
  $ 47,663 
  $ 54,524
Futures and forwards  
  6,986 
  6,277
Written options 
  4,553 
  4,803
Purchased options  
  4,584 
  4,656
Total interest rate contracts    63,786 
  70,260
Credit derivatives
(b)
   5,994 
  8,388
Foreign exchange contracts 
  
  
Cross-currency swaps
(a)
  
  2,217 
  1,681
Spot, futures and forwards  
  3,578 
  3,744
Written options 
  685 
  972
Purchased options  
  699 
  959
Total foreign exchange contracts       7,179 
  7,356
Equity contracts 
   
Swaps  
  81 
  77
Futures and forwards  
  45 
  56
Written options 
  502 
  628
Purchased options  
  449 
  652
Total equity contracts  
  1,077 
  1,413
Commodity contracts 
  
  
Swaps  
  178 
  234
Spot, futures and forwards  
  113 
  115
Written options 
  201 
  206
Purchased options  
  205 
  198
Total commodity contracts    697 
  753
Total derivative notional amounts  $ 78,733 
  $ 
88,170 
 (a) In 2009, cross-currency interest rate swaps previously reported in interest rate 
contracts were reclassified to foreign exchange contracts to be more consis-
tent with industry practice. The effect of this change resulted in a reclassifica-
tion of $1.7 trillion in notional amount of cross-currency swaps from interest 

rate contracts to foreign exchange contracts as of December 31, 2008. 
(b) Primarily consists of credit default swaps. For more information on volumes and 
types of credit derivative contracts, see the Credit derivatives discussion on 

pages 181Œ183 of this Note. 
(c) Represents the sum of gross long and gross short third-party notional deriva-
tive contracts. 
While the notional amounts disclosed above give an indication of 
the volume of the Firm™s derivative activity, the notional amounts 

significantly exceed, in the Firm™s view, the possible losses that 

could arise from such transactions. For most derivative transactions, 

the notional amount does not change hands; it is used simply as a 

reference to calculate payments.  
Accounting for derivatives 
All free-standing derivatives are required to be recorded on the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. The accounting for 

changes in value of a derivative depends on whether or not the 

contract has been designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. 

Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are marked to mar-

ket through earnings. The tabular disclosures on pages 177Œ183 of 

this Note provide additional information on the amount of, and 

reporting for, derivative assets, liabilities, gains and losses. For 

further discussion of derivatives embedded in structured notes, see 

Notes 3 and 4 on pages 156Œ173 and 173Œ175, respectively, of 

this Annual Report. 
Derivatives designated as hedges 
The Firm applies hedge accounting to certain derivatives executed 

for risk management purposes Œ typically interest rate, foreign 

exchange and gold and base metal derivatives, as described above. 

JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of 

the derivatives involved in the Firm™s risk management activities. 

For example, the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to pur-

chased credit default swaps used to manage the credit risk of loans 

and commitments, because of the difficulties in qualifying such 

contracts as hedges. For the same reason, the Firm does not apply 

hedge accounting to certain interest rate derivatives used for risk 

management purposes, or to commodity derivatives used to man-

age the price risk of tolling and load-serving contracts. 
To qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be highly effec-
tive at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being 

hedged. In addition, for a derivative to be designated as a hedge, 

the risk management objective and strategy must be documented. 

Hedge documentation must identify the derivative hedging instru-

ment, the asset or liability and type of risk to be hedged, and how 

the effectiveness of the derivative is assessed prospectively and 

retrospectively. To assess effectiveness, the Firm uses statistical 

methods such as regression analysis, as well as nonstatistical 

methods including dollar-value comparisons of the change in the 

fair value of the derivative to the change in the fair value or cash 

flows of the hedged item. The extent to which a derivative has 

been, and is expected to continue to be, effective at offsetting 

changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item must be 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 177 
assessed and documented at least quarterly. Any hedge ineffective-
ness (i.e., the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated 

derivative instrument does not exactly offset the gain or loss on the 

hedged item attributable to the hedged risk) must be reported in 

current-period earnings. If it is determined that a derivative is not 

highly effective at hedging the designated exposure, hedge  

accounting is discontinued. 
There are three types of hedge accounting designations: fair 
value hedges, cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. 

JPMorgan Chase uses fair value hedges primarily to hedge fixed-

rate long-term debt, available-for-sale (ﬁAFSﬂ) securities and 

gold and base metal inventory. For qualifying fair value hedges, 

the changes in the fair value of the derivative, and in the value of 

the hedged item, for the risk being hedged, are recognized in 

earnings. If the hedge relationship is terminated, then the fair 

value adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as 

part of the basis of the hedged item and for interest-bearing 

instruments is amortized to earnings as a yield adjust-

ment. Derivative amounts affecting earnings are recognized 

consistent with the classification of the hedged item Œ primarily 

net interest income and principal transactions revenue. 
JPMorgan Chase uses cash flow hedges to hedge the exposure to 
variability in cash flows from floating-rate financial instruments and 

forecasted transactions, primarily the rollover of short-term assets 

and liabilities, and foreign currencyŒdenominated revenue and 

expense. For qualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of 
the change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded in other 

comprehensive income/(loss) (ﬁOCIﬂ) and recognized in the Con-

solidated Statements of Income when the hedged cash flows affect 

earnings. Derivative amounts affecting earnings are recognized 

consistent with the classification of the hedged item Œ primarily 

interest income, interest expense, noninterest revenue and com-

pensation expense. The ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are 

immediately recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is 

terminated, then the value of the derivative recorded in accumu-

lated other comprehensive income/(loss) (ﬁAOCIﬂ) is recognized in 

earnings when the cash flows that were hedged affect earnings. 

For hedge relationships that are discontinued because a forecasted 

transaction is not expected to occur according to the original hedge 

forecast, any related derivative values recorded in AOCI are imme-

diately recognized in earnings. 
JPMorgan Chase uses foreign currency hedges to protect the value 
of the Firm™s net investments in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries or 

branches whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. For 

qualifying net investment hedges, changes in the fair value of the 

derivatives are recorded in the translation adjustments account 

within AOCI.  
Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
The following table summarizes information on derivative fair 

values that are reflected on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets 

as of December 31, 2009, by accounting designation (e.g., whether 

the derivatives were designated as hedges or not) and contract type. 
 Free-standing derivatives
(a)
  Derivative receivables 
 Derivative payables 
December 31, 2009
 (in millions) 
Not designated 
 as hedges 
Designated  
as hedges 
Total derivative 
 receivables 
Not  
designated  
as hedges 
Designated  
as hedges 
Total derivative 
payables 
Trading assets and liabilities 
     
  Interest rate  
 $ 1,148,901 $ 6,568   $ 1,155,469   $ 1,121,978   $ 427 $ 1,122,405
  Credit  
 170,864 
Š   170,864   164,790   Š   164,790
  Foreign exchange 
 141,790 2,497   144,287   137,865   353  138,218
  Equity  
 57,871 
Š   57,871   58,494   Š  58,494
  Commodity  
 36,988 
39   37,027   35,082   194
(c)
  35,276
  Gross fair value of trading 
assets and liabilities 
 $ 1,556,414 $ 9,104   $ 1,565,518   $ 1,518,209   $ 974 $ 1,519,183
  Netting adjustment
(b)
     (1,485,308)  
  (1,459,058
 ) 
Carrying value of derivative 
trading assets and trading 
liabilities on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets 
    $      80,210  
 $ 60,125
  (a) Excludes structured notes for which the fair value option has been elected. See Note 4 on pages 173Œ175 of this Annual Report for further information. 
(b) U.S. GAAP permits the netting of derivative receivables and payables, and the related cash collateral received and paid when a legally enforceable master netting 
agreement exists between the Firm and a derivative counterparty.  
(c) Excludes $1.3 billion related to separated commodity derivatives used as fair value hedging instruments that are recorded in the line item of the host contract (i.e.,  
other borrowed funds). 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
178 
Derivative receivables and payables mark-to-market 
The following table summarizes the fair values of derivative receivables and payables by contract type after netting adjustments as of December 31, 
2009 and 2008. 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2009 
                  2008
 Derivative receivables: 
  Interest rate
(a)
  
 $ 26,777 
 $ 49,996
 Credit  
  18,815 
  44,695
 Foreign exchange
(a)
  
  21,984 
  38,820
 Equity 
  6,635 
  14,285
 Commodity 
  5,999 
  14,830
 Total derivative receivables 
 $ 80,210 
 $ 162,626
 Trading liabilities
   Derivative payables: 
  Interest rate
(a)
  
 $ 15,220 
 $ 27,645
 Credit  
  10,504 
  23,566
 Foreign exchange
(a)
  
  19,818 
  41,156
 Equity 
  11,554 
  17,316
 Commodity 
  3,029 
  11,921
 Total derivative payables 
 $ 60,125 
 $ 121,604
 (a) In 2009, cross-currency interest rate swaps previously reported in interest rate contracts were reclassified to foreign exchange contracts to be more consistent with 
industry practice. The effect of this change resulted in reclassifications of $14.1 billion of derivative receivables and $20.8 billion of derivative payables, between cross-
currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts, as of December 31, 2008. 
 Impact of derivatives and hedged items on the income statement and on other comprehensive income 
The following table summarizes the total pretax impact of JPMorgan Chase™s derivative-related activities on the Firm™s Consolidated State-

ments of Income and Other Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2009, by accounting designation. 
 Derivative-related gains/(losses) 
 Consolidated Statements 
of Income (in millions) 
Fair value  
hedges
(a)
 Cash flow  
hedges 
Net investment  
hedges
 Risk management 
activities 
Trading 
activities
(a)
        Total
 Year ended December 31, 2009 
$ 801 $  62 $ (112) $ (6,590) $ 16,254 $ 10,415
   Derivative-related net changes in other comprehensive income 
 Other Comprehensive Income/(loss) 
Fair value  
hedges 
Cash flow  
hedges 
Net investment  
hedges
 Risk management 
activities 
Trading 
activities 
         
Total
 Year ended December 31, 2009 
$  Š 
$ 643 
$ (259) 
$  Š 
$  Š $ 384
 (a) Includes the hedge accounting impact of the hedged item for fair value hedges, and includes cash instruments within trading activities. 
The tables that follow reflect more detailed information regarding the derivative-related income statement impact by accounting designation 
for the year ended December 31, 2009. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 179 
Fair value hedge gains and losses  
The following table presents derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedge accounting relationships, as well as pretax 
gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives and the related hedged items for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Firm includes 

gains/(losses) on the hedging derivative and the related hedged item in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income  Income statement impact due to:  
Year ended  
December 31, 2009
 (in millions) 
Derivatives Hedged items 
Total income  
statement impact
(d)
   Hedge 
ineffectiveness
(e)
    Excluded 
    components
(f)
  Contract type 
       
Interest rate
(a)
   $ (3,830)   $ 4,638   $ 808 
   $ (466)  $ 1,274
 Foreign exchange
(b)
   (1,421)   1,445   24 
   Š 
 24
 Commodity
(c)
   (430)   399   (31) 
   Š 
 (31
) 
Total 
  $ (5,681)   $ 6,482   $ 801 
   $ (466)  $ 1,267 
(a) Primarily consists of hedges of the benchmark (e.g., LIBOR) interest rate risk of fixed-rate long-term debt. Gains and losses were recorded in net interest income. 
(b) Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of long-term debt and AFS securities for changes in spot foreign currency rates.  Gains and losses related to the 
derivatives and the hedged items, due to changes in spot foreign currency rates, were recorded in principal transactions revenue. 
(c) Consists of overall fair value hedges of physical gold and base metal inventory.  Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue. 

(d) Total income statement impact for fair value hedges consists of hedge ineffectiveness and any components excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The related 
amounts for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were net gains of $434 million and $111 million, respectively. 
(e) Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument does not exactly offset the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable 
to the hedged risk. 
(f) Certain components of hedging derivatives and hedged items are permitted to be excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.  Amounts related to excluded compo-
nents are recorded in current-period income and primarily consist of the impact of the passage of time on the fair value of the hedging derivative and hedged item. 
 Cash flow hedge gains and losses  
The following table presents derivative instruments, by contract type, used in cash flow hedge accounting relationships, and the pretax 
gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives, for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Firm includes the gain/(loss) on the hedging derivative 

in the same line item as the offsetting change in cash flows on the hedged item in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss) 
(c)
 Year ended  
December 31, 2009
 (in millions) 
Derivatives Œ  
effective portion 
reclassified from 
AOCI to income 
Hedge  
ineffectiveness 
recorded directly  
in income
(d)
  Total income  
statement impact 
Derivatives Œ  
effective portion 
recorded in OCI 
    
Total change 
    in OCI  
.     for period
 Contract type 
   
  Interest rate
(a)
  $ (158)  $ (62)  $ (220)  $ 61  $ 219
Foreign exchange
(b)
   282   Š   282   706   424
Total 
 $ 124  $ (62)  $ 62  $ 767  $ 643
(a) Primarily consists of benchmark interest rate hedges of LIBOR-indexed floating-rate assets and floating-rate liabilities. Gains and losses were recorded in net interest 
income. 
(b) Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of nonŒU.S. dollarŒdenominated revenue and expense. The income statement classification of gains and losses 
follows the hedged item Œ primarily net interest income, compensation expense and other expense. 
(c) The Firm incurred $15 million of cash flow hedging net gains/(losses) on forecasted transactions that failed to occur for the year-ended December 31, 2007.  The Firm 
did not experience forecasted transactions that failed to occur for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(d) Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the cumulative gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument exceeds the present value of the cumulative expected 
change in cash flows on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.  Hedge ineffectiveness recorded directly in income for cash flow hedges were net gains of $18 
million and $29 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
 Over the next 12 months, the Firm expects that $245 million (after-tax) of net losses recorded in AOCI at December 31, 2009, related to cash 
flow hedges will be recognized in income. The maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is 10 years, and such 

transactions primarily relate to core lending and borrowing activities.   

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
180 
Net investment hedge gains and losses  
The following table presents hedging instruments, by contract type, that were used in net investment hedge accounting relationships, and the 
pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives for the year ended December 31, 2009. 
 Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Year ended 
 December 31, 2009 (in millions) 
Derivatives Œ excluded components  
recorded directly in income
(a)
 Derivatives Œ effective portion 
recorded in OCI 
 Contract type 
   
Foreign exchange  
$  (112) $  (259) 
Total 
$  (112) $  (259) 
(a) Certain components of derivatives used as hedging instruments are permitted to be excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, such as forward points on a 
futures or forwards contract. Amounts related to excluded components are recorded in current-period income. There was no ineffectiveness for net investment hedge 
accounting relationships during 2009. 
Risk management derivatives gains and losses (not designated as 
hedging instruments) 
The following table presents nontrading derivatives, by contract 

type, that were not designated in hedge relationships, and the 

pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives for the year 

ended December 31, 2009. These derivatives are risk management 

instruments used to mitigate or transform the risk of market expo-

sures arising from banking activities other than trading activities, 

which are discussed separately below. 
Year ended December 31, 2009 
(in millions) 
Derivatives gains/(losses) 
recorded in income 
Contract type 
 Interest rate
(a)
  $ (3,113
 ) 
Credit
(b)
   (3,222
 ) 
Foreign exchange
(c)
   (197
 ) 
Equity
(b)
   (8
 ) 
Commodity
(b)
   (50
 ) 
Total 
 $ (6,590
 ) 
(a) Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue, mortgage 
fees and related income, and net interest income. 
(b) Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue. 
(c) Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue and net 
interest income. 
Trading derivative gains and losses 
The Firm has elected to present derivative gains and losses related 
to its trading activities together with the cash instruments with 

which they are risk managed. All amounts are recorded in principal 

transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income for 

the year ended December 31, 2009. 
Year ended December 31, 2009 
(in millions) 
Gains/(losses) recorded in 
principal transactions revenue 
Type of instrument 
Interest rate  
 $   4,375
Credit 
  5,022
Foreign exchange  
  4,053
Equity  
  1,475
Commodity  
  1,329
Total 
 $ 16,254
 Credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features 
In addition to the specific market risks introduced by each deriva-
tive contract type, derivatives expose JPMorgan Chase to credit risk 

Œ the risk that derivative counterparties may fail to meet their 

payment obligations under the derivative contracts and the collat-

eral, if any, held by the Firm proves to be of insufficient value to 

cover the payment obligation. It is the policy of JPMorgan Chase to 

enter into legally enforceable master netting agreements as well as 

to actively pursue the use of collateral agreements to mitigate 

derivative counterparty credit risk. The amount of derivative receiv-

ables reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets is the fair value 

of the derivative contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable 

master netting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. 

These amounts represent the cost to the Firm to replace the con-

tracts at then-current market rates should the counterparty default.  
While derivative receivables expose the Firm to credit risk, deriva-
tive payables expose the Firm to liquidity risk, as the derivative 

contracts typically require the Firm to post cash or securities collat-

eral with counterparties as the mark-to-market (ﬁMTMﬂ) moves in 

the counterparties™ favor, or upon specified downgrades in the 

Firm™s and its subsidiaries™ respective credit ratings. At December 

31, 2009, the impact of a single-notch and six-notch ratings down-

grade to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries, primarily 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., would have required $1.2 billion and 

$3.6 billion, respectively, of additional collateral to be posted by 

the Firm. Certain derivative contracts also provide for termination of 

the contract, generally upon a downgrade of either the Firm or the 

counterparty, at the fair value of the derivative contracts. At De-

cember 31, 2009, the impact of single-notch and six-notch ratings 

downgrades to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries, primar-

ily JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., related to contracts with termina-

tion triggers would have required the Firm to settle trades with a 

fair value of $260 million and $4.7 billion, respectively. The aggre-

gate fair value of net derivative payables that contain contingent 

collateral or termination features triggered upon a downgrade was 

$22.6 billion at December 31, 2009, for which the Firm has posted 

collateral of $22.3 billion in the normal course of business. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 181 
The following table shows the current credit risk of derivative receivables after netting adjustments, and the current liquidity risk of derivative 
payables after netting adjustments, as of December 31, 2009. 
December 31, 2009 (in millions) 
               Derivative receivables 
                   Derivative payables
  Gross derivative fair value 
  $ 1,565,518 
 $ 1,519,183
  Netting adjustment Œ offsetting receivables/payables 
  (1,419,840) 
  (1,419,840
 ) 
Netting adjustment Œ cash collateral received/paid 
  (65,468) 
  (39,218
 ) 
Carrying value on Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  $      80,210 
 $      60,125
   In addition to the collateral amounts reflected in the table above, at 
December 31, 2009, the Firm had received and posted liquid secu-

rities collateral in the amount of $15.5 billion and $11.7 billion, 

respectively. The Firm also receives and delivers collateral at the 

initiation of derivative transactions, which is available as security 

against potential exposure that could arise should the fair value of 

the transactions move in the Firm™s or client™s favor, respectively. 

Furthermore, the Firm and its counterparties hold collateral related 

to contracts that have a non-daily call frequency for collateral to be 

posted, and collateral that the Firm or a counterparty has agreed to 

return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. At December 

31, 2009, the Firm had received $16.9 billion and delivered $5.8 

billion of such additional collateral. These amounts were not netted 

against the derivative receivables and payables in the table above, 

because, at an individual counterparty level, the collateral exceeded 

the fair value exposure at December 31, 2009.
Credit derivatives  
Credit derivatives are financial instruments whose value is derived 

from the credit risk associated with the debt of a third-party issuer 

(the reference entity) and which allow one party (the protection 

purchaser) to transfer that risk to another party (the protection 

seller). Credit derivatives expose the protection purchaser to the 

creditworthiness of the protection seller, as the protection seller is 

required to make payments under the contract when the reference 

entity experiences a credit event, such as a bankruptcy, a failure to 

pay its obligation or a restructuring. The seller of credit protection 

receives a premium for providing protection but has the risk that 

the underlying instrument referenced in the contract will be subject 

to a credit event.  
The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of protection in the credit 
derivatives market and uses these derivatives for two primary 

purposes. First, in its capacity as a market-maker in the 

dealer/client business, the Firm actively risk manages a portfolio of 

credit derivatives by purchasing and selling credit protection, pre-

dominantly on corporate debt obligations, to meet the needs of 

customers. As a seller of protection, the Firm™s exposure to a given 

reference entity may be offset partially, or entirely, with a contract 

to purchase protection from another counterparty on the same or 

similar reference entity. Second, the Firm uses credit derivatives to 

mitigate credit risk associated with its overall derivative receivables 

and traditional commercial credit lending exposures (loans and 

unfunded commitments) as well as to manage its exposure to 

residential and commercial mortgages. See Note 3 on pages 156---

173 of this Annual Report for further information on the Firm™s 

mortgage-related exposures. In accomplishing the above, the Firm 
uses different types of credit derivatives. Following is a summary of 

various types of credit derivatives.
 Credit default swaps 
Credit derivatives may reference the credit of either a single refer-

ence entity (ﬁsingle-nameﬂ) or a broad-based index, as described 

further below. The Firm purchases and sells protection on both 

single- name and index-reference obligations. Single-name CDS 

and index CDS contracts are both OTC derivative contracts. Single-

name CDS are used to manage the default risk of a single reference 

entity, while CDS index are used to manage credit risk associated 

with the broader credit markets or credit market segments. Like the 

S&P 500 and other market indices, a CDS index is comprised of a 

portfolio of CDS across many reference entities. New series of CDS 

indices are established approximately every six months with a new 

underlying portfolio of reference entities to reflect changes in the 

credit markets. If one of the reference entities in the index experi-

ences a credit event, then the reference entity that defaulted is 

removed from the index. CDS can also be referenced against spe-

cific portfolios of reference names or against customized exposure 

levels based on specific client demands: for example, to provide 

protection against the first $1 million of realized credit losses in a 

$10 million portfolio of exposure. Such structures are commonly 

known as tranche CDS. 
For both single-name CDS contracts and index CDS, upon the 
occurrence of a credit event, under the terms of a CDS contract 

neither party to the CDS contract has recourse to the reference 

entity. The protection purchaser has recourse to the protection 

seller for the difference between the face value of the CDS contract 

and the fair value of the reference obligation at the time of settling 

the credit derivative contract, also known as the recovery value. The 

protection purchaser does not need to hold the debt instrument of 

the underlying reference entity in order to receive amounts due 

under the CDS contract when a credit event occurs. 
Credit-linked notes 
A credit linked note (ﬁCLNﬂ) is a funded credit derivative where the 

issuer of the CLN purchases credit protection on a referenced entity 

from the note investor. Under the contract, the investor pays the 

issuer par value of the note at the inception of the transaction, and in 

return, the issuer pays periodic payments to the investor, based on 

the credit risk of the referenced entity. The issuer also repays the 

investor the par value of the note at maturity unless the reference 

entity experiences a specified credit event. In that event, the issuer is 

not obligated to repay the par value of the note, but rather, the issuer 

pays the investor the difference between the par value of the note 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
182 
and the fair value of the defaulted reference obligation at the time of 
settlement. Neither party to the CLN has recourse to the defaulting 

reference entity. For a further discussion of CLNs, see Note 16 on 

pages 214Œ222 of this Annual Report.  
The following table presents a summary of the notional amounts of 
credit derivatives and credit-linked notes the Firm sold and purchased 

as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Upon a credit event, the Firm as 

seller of protection would typically pay out only a percentage of the 

full notional amount of net protection sold, as the amount actually 

required to be paid on the contracts takes into account the recovery 
value of the reference obligation at the time of settlement. The Firm 

manages the credit risk on contracts to sell protection by purchasing 

protection with identical or similar underlying reference entities. As 

such, other purchased protection referenced in the following table 

includes credit derivatives bought on related, but not identical, refer-

ence positions; these include indices, and portfolio coverage. The Firm 

does not use notional amounts as the primary measure of risk man-

agement for credit derivatives, because notional amounts do not take 

into account the probability of the occurrence of a credit event, 

recovery value of the reference obligation, or related cash instruments 

and economic hedges. 
Total credit derivatives and credit-linked notes 
 Maximum payout/Notional amount 
December 31, 2009
 (in millions)
  Protection sold 
Protection purchased with 
identical underlyings
(b)
 Net protection (sold)/purchased
(c)
    Other protection 
    purchased
(d)
 Credit derivatives 
    
Credit default swaps 
 $ (2,937,442)  $ 2,978,044  $ 40,602 
 $  28,064
 Other credit derivatives
(a)
   (10,575)   9,290   (1,285) 
  30,473
 Total credit derivatives 
  (2,948,017)   2,987,334   39,317 
  58,537
 Credit-linked notes  
  (4,031)   Š   (4,031) 
  1,728
 Total 
 $ (2,952,048)  $ 2,987,334  $ 35,286 
 $  60,265
   Maximum payout/Notional amount 
December 31, 2008 
(in millions) 
 Protection sold 
Protection purchased with 
identical underlyings
(b)
 Net protection (sold)/purchased
(c)
    Other protection
    purchased
(d)
  
Credit derivatives 
    
 Credit default swaps 
 $ (4,099,141)  $ 3,973,616  $ (125,525) 
 $ 288,751
  Other credit derivatives
(a)
   (4,026)   Š   (4,026) 
  22,344
  Total credit derivatives 
  (4,103,167)   3,973,616   (129,551) 
  311,095
  Credit-linked notes 
  (4,080)   Š   (4,080) 
  2,373
  Total 
 $ (4,107,247)  $ 3,973,616  $ (133,631)  $ 313,468
  (a)
 Primarily consists of total return swaps and credit default swap options. 
(b)
 Represents the total notional amount of protection purchased where the underlying reference instrument is identical to the reference instrument on protection sold; the 
notional amount of protection purchased for each individual identical underlying reference instrument may be greater or lower than the notional amount of protection 
sold. 
(c)
 Does not take into account the fair value of the reference obligation at the time of settlement, which would generally reduce the amount the seller of protection pays to 

the buyer of protection in determining settlement value. 
(d)
 Represents single-name and index CDS protection the Firm purchased. 
The following table summarizes the notional and fair value amounts of credit derivatives and credit-linked notes as of December 31, 2009, and 
2008, where JPMorgan Chase is the seller of protection. The maturity profile is based on the remaining contractual maturity of the credit 
derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the reference entity on which the credit derivative contract is based. The 

ratings and maturity profile of protection purchased are comparable to the profile reflected below. 
Protection sold Œ credit derivatives and credit-linked notes ratings
(a)
 /maturity profile
 December 31, 2009
 (in millions)
 <1 year      1Œ5 years     >5 years 
 Total  
  notional amount Fair value
(b) 
Risk rating of reference entity 
     Investment-grade (AAA/Aaa to BBB-/Baa3) 
  $ (215,580)  $ (1,140,133)   $ (367,015)  $ (1,722,728) $   (16,607) 
Noninvestment-grade (BB+/Ba1 and below) 
  (150,122)   (806,139)   (273,059)   (1,229,320)  (90,410) 
Total  
  $ (365,702)  $ (1,946,272)   $ (640,074)  $ (2,952,048) $ (107,017) 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 183 
 December 31, 2008 (in millions)
 <1 year 1Œ5 years >5 years 
Total  
notional amount    
Fair value
(b) 
Risk rating of reference entity 
     Investment-grade (AAA/Aaa to BBB-/Baa3)  $ (179,379)  $ (1,743,283)  $ (701,775)  $  (2,624,437)  $  (222,318
) 
Noninvestment-grade (BB+/Ba1 and below)   (118,734)   (950,619)   (413,457)      (1,482,810)  (253,326
) 
Total  
 $ (298,113)  $ (2,693,902)  $ (1,115,232)  $  (4,107,247) $ (475,644
) 
(a)
 Ratings scale is based on the Firm™s internal ratings, which generally correspond to ratings defined by S&P and Moody™s. 
(b)
 Amounts are shown on a gross basis, before the benefit of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. 
Note 6 Œ Noninterest revenue  
Investment banking fees 
This revenue category includes advisory and equity and debt un-
derwriting fees. Advisory fees are recognized as revenue when the 

related services have been performed. Underwriting fees are recog-

nized as revenue when the Firm has rendered all services to the 

issuer and is entitled to collect the fee from the issuer, as long as 

there are no other contingencies associated with the fee (e.g., the 

fee is not contingent upon the customer obtaining financing). 

Underwriting fees are net of syndicate expense; the Firm recognizes 

credit arrangement and syndication fees as revenue after satisfying 

certain retention, timing and yield criteria. 
The following table presents the components of investment banking 
fees. 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
    2009
      2008 2007
Underwriting: 
  
   Equity 
 $ 2,487
  $ 1,477  $ 1,713
  Debt 
  2,739
   2,094   2,650
Total underwriting 
  5,226
   3,571   4,363
  Advisory 
  1,861
   1,955   2,272
Total investment banking fees  $ 7,087
  $ 5,526  $ 6,635
 Principal transactions 

Principal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized 

gains and losses from trading activities (including physical com-

modities inventories that are accounted for at the lower of cost or 

fair value), changes in fair value associated with financial instru-

ments held by IB for which the fair value option was elected, and 

loans held-for-sale within the wholesale lines of business. For 

loans measured at fair value under the fair value option, origina-

tion costs are recognized in the associated expense category as 

incurred. Principal transactions revenue also includes private 

equity gains and losses. 
The following table presents principal transactions revenue.  
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
 2009
  2008 2007
Trading revenue 
 $ 9,870
  $ (9,791)  $ 4,736
Private equity gains/(losses)
(a)
   (74)
   (908)   4,279
Principal transactions   $ 9,796
  $ (10,699)  $ 9,015
(a) Includes revenue on private equity investments held in the Private Equity 
business within Corporate/Private Equity, and those held in other business 
segments. 
Lending- and deposit-related fees  
This revenue category includes fees from loan commitments, 

standby letters of credit, financial guarantees, deposit-related fees 

in lieu of compensating balances, cash management-related activi-

ties or transactions, deposit accounts and other loan-servicing 

activities. These fees are recognized over the period in which the 

related service is provided. 
Asset management, administration and commissions  
This revenue category includes fees from investment management 

and related services, custody, brokerage services, insurance premi-

ums and commissions, and other products. These fees are recog-

nized over the period in which the related service is provided. 

Performance-based fees, which are earned based on exceeding 

certain benchmarks or other performance targets, are accrued and 

recognized at the end of the performance period in which the 

target is met. 
The following table presents the components of asset management, 
administration and commissions. 
Year ended December 31, 
  
 (in millions) 
 2009
  2008
  2007
 Asset management: 
  
 Investment management fees 
$   4,997
  $   5,562
  $  6,364
 All other asset management fees 
 356
  432
  639
 Total asset management fees 
 5,353
  5,994
  7,003
 Total administration fees
(a)
  1,927
  2,452
  2,401
 Commission and other fees:   
 Brokerage commissions  
 2,904
  3,141
  2,702
 All other commissions and fees  
 2,356
  2,356
  2,250
 Total commissions and fees 
 5,260
  5,497
  4,952
 Total asset management,  
administration and commissions
  $12,540
  $ 13,943
  $ 14,356
 (a)  Includes fees for custody, securities lending, funds services and securities clearance.
 Mortgage fees and related income 

This revenue category primarily reflects RFS™s mortgage banking 

revenue, including: fees and income derived from mortgages origi-

nated with the intent to sell; mortgage sales and servicing including 

losses related to the repurchase of previously sold loans; the impact 

of risk management activities associated with the mortgage pipe-

line, warehouse loans and MSRs; and revenue related to any resid-

ual interests held from mortgage securitizations. This revenue 

category also includes gains and losses on sales and lower of cost 

or fair value adjustments for mortgage loans held-for-sale, as well 

as changes in fair value for mortgage loans originated with the 

intent to sell and measured at fair value under the fair value option. 

For loans measured at fair value under the fair value option, origi-

nation costs are recognized in the associated expense category as 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
184
 incurred. Costs to originate loans held-for-sale and accounted for at 
the lower of cost or fair value are deferred and recognized as a com-

ponent of the gain or loss on sale. Net interest income from mortgage 

loans, and securities gains and losses on AFS securities used in mort-

gage-related risk management activities, are recorded in interest 

income and securities gains/(losses), respectively. For a further discus-

sion of MSRs, see Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 of this Annual Report. 
Credit card income 
This revenue category includes interchange income from credit and 

debit cards and servicing fees earned in connection with securitiza-

tion activities. Volume-related payments to partners and expense 

for rewards programs are netted against interchange income; 

expense related to rewards programs are recorded when the re-

wards are earned by the customer. Other fee revenue is recognized 

as earned, except for annual fees, which are deferred and recog-

nized on a straight-line basis over the 12-month period to which 

they pertain. Direct loan origination costs are also deferred and 

recognized over a 12-month period. In addition, due to the consoli-

dation of Chase Paymentech Solutions in the fourth quarter of 

2008, this category now includes net fees earned for processing 

card transactions for merchants. 
Credit card revenue sharing agreements  
The Firm has contractual agreements with numerous affinity or-

ganizations and co-brand partners, which grant the Firm exclusive 

rights to market to the members or customers of such organizations 

and partners. These organizations and partners endorse the credit 

card programs and provide their mailing lists to the Firm, and they 

may also conduct marketing activities and provide awards under 

the various credit card programs. The terms of these agreements 

generally range from three to ten years. The economic incentives 

the Firm pays to the endorsing organizations and partners typically 

include payments based on new account originations, charge 

volumes, and the cost of the endorsing organizations™ or partners™ 

marketing activities and awards. 
The Firm recognizes the payments made to the affinity organiza-
tions and co-brand partners based on new account originations as 

direct loan origination costs. Payments based on charge volumes 

are considered by the Firm as revenue sharing with the affinity 

organizations and co-brand partners, which are deducted from 

interchange income as the related revenue is earned. Payments 

based on marketing efforts undertaken by the endorsing organiza-

tion or partner are expensed by the Firm as incurred. These costs 

are recorded within noninterest expense.  
Note 7 Œ Interest income and Interest  
expense 
Details of interest income and interest expense were
 as follows.  
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
  2009
  2008
   2007
 Interest income
(a)
   Loans 
 $ 38,704
 $ 38,347
  $  36,660
 Securities 
12,377
6,344
 5,232
 Trading assets 
12,098
17,236
 17,041
 Federal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements 
1,750
5,983
 6,497
 Securities borrowed 
42,297
 4,539
 Deposits with banks 
938
1,916
 1,418
 Other assets
(b)
 479
895
 Š Total interest income
 66,350
73,018
 71,387
 Interest expense
(a)
   Interest-bearing deposits 
4,826
14,546
 21,653
 Short-term and other liabilities
(c)
 3,845
10,933
 16,142
 Long-term debt 
6,309
8,355
 6,606
 Beneficial interests issued by 
consolidated VIEs 
218
405
 580
 Total interest expense
 15,198
34,239
 44,981
 Net interest income
  $ 51,152
$ 38,779
 $ 26,406
 Provision for credit losses 
32,015
19,445
 6,864
 Provision for credit losses Œ accounting 
conformity
(d)
 Š 1,534
 Š Total provision for credit losses
  $ 32,015
 $ 20,979
  $   6,864
 Net interest income after  
provision
 for
 credit losses
  $ 19,137
 $ 17,800
 $ 19,542
 (a) Interest income and interest expense include the current-period interest 
accruals for financial instruments measured at fair value, except for financial 
instruments containing embedded derivatives that would be separately ac-
counted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP absent the fair value option elec-
tion; for those instruments, all changes in fair value, including any interest 

elements, are reported in principal transactions revenue.  
(b) Predominantly margin loans.  

(c)  Includes brokerage customer payables.  

(d) 2008 includes an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to 
the acquisition of Washington Mutual™s banking operations. 
Note 8 Œ Pension and other postretirement 
employee benefit plans 
The Firm™s defined benefit pension plans and its oth
er postretire-
ment employee benefit (ﬁOPEBﬂ) plans are accounted for in accor-
dance with U.S. GAAP for retirement benefits. 
Defined benefit pension plans  
The Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S. defined benefit 

pension plan that provides benefits to substantially all U.S. employ-

ees. The U.S. plan employs a cash balance formula in the form of 

pay and interest credits to determine the benefits to be provided at 

retirement, based on eligible compensation and years of service. 

Employees begin to accrue plan benefits after completing one year 

of service, and benefits generally vest after three years of service. In 

November 2009, the Firm announced certain changes to the pay 

credit schedule and amount of eligible compensation recognized 

under the U.S. plan effective February 1, 2010. The Firm also offers 

benefits through defined benefit pension plans to qualifying em-

ployees in certain non-U.S. locations based on factors such as 

eligible compensation, age and/or years of service.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 185 
It is the Firm™s policy to fund the pension plans in amounts suffi-
cient to meet the requirements under applicable employee benefit 

and local tax laws. On January 15, 2009, and August 28, 2009, the 

Firm made discretionary deductible cash contributions to its U.S. 

defined benefit pension plan of $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion, re-

spectively. The amount of potential 2010 contributions to the U.S. 

defined benefit pension plans, if any, is not reasonably estimable at 

this time. The expected amount of 2010 contributions to the non-

U.S. defined benefit pension plans is $171 million of which $148 

million is contractually required.  
JPMorgan Chase also has a number of defined benefit pension 
plans not subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income 

Security Act. The most significant of these plans is the Excess 

Retirement Plan, pursuant to which certain employees earn pay and 

interest credits on compensation amounts above the maximum 

stipulated by law under a qualified plan. The Firm announced that, 

effective May 1, 2009, pay credits would no longer be provided on 

compensation amounts above the maximum stipulated by law. The 

Excess Retirement Plan had an unfunded projected benefit obliga-

tion in the amount of $267 million and $273 million, at December 

31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
Defined contribution plans 
JPMorgan Chase offers several defined contribution plans in the 

U.S. and in certain non-U.S. locations, all of which are administered 

in accordance with applicable local laws and regulations. The most 

significant of these plans is The JPMorgan Chase 401(k) Savings 

Plan (the ﬁ401(k) Savings Planﬂ), which covers substantially all U.S. 

employees. The 401(k) Savings Plan allows employees to make 

pretax and Roth 401(k) contributions to tax-deferred investment 

portfolios. The JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Fund, which is an 

investment option under the 401(k) Savings Plan, is a nonleveraged 

employee stock ownership plan. The Firm matches eligible em-

ployee contributions up to a certain percentage of benefits-eligible 

compensation per pay period, subject to plan and legal limits. 

Employees begin to receive matching contributions after completing 

a one-year-of-service requirement and are immediately vested in 

the Firm™s contributions when made. Employees with total annual 
cash compensation of $250,000 or more are not eligible for match-

ing contributions. The 401(k) Savings Plan also permits discretion-

ary profit-sharing contributions by participating companies for 

certain employees, subject to a specified vesting schedule.  
The Firm announced that, effective May 1, 2009, for employees 
earning $50,000 or more per year, matching contributions to the 

401(k) Savings Plan will be made at the discretion of the Firm™s 

management, depending on the Firm™s earnings for the year. Addi-

tionally, the Firm amended the matching contribution feature to 

provide that: (i) matching contributions, if any, will be calculated and 

credited on an annual basis following the end of the calendar year; 

and (ii) matching contributions will vest after three years of service for 

employees hired on or after May 1, 2009. The Firm announced in 

November 2009 that, for 2009, it will contribute the full matching 

contributions for all eligible employees earning less than $250,000 

based on their contributions to the 401(k) Savings Plan, but not to 

exceed 5% of their eligible compensation (e.g., base pay).   
Effective August 10, 2009, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. became the 
sponsor of the WaMu Savings Plan. 
OPEB plans 
JPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and life insurance 

benefits to certain retirees and postretirement medical benefits to 

qualifying U.S. employees. These benefits vary with length of ser-

vice and date of hire and provide for limits on the Firm™s share of 

covered medical benefits. The medical and life insurance benefits 

are both contributory. Postretirement medical benefits also are 

offered to qualifying U.K. employees.  
JPMorgan Chase™s U.S. OPEB obligation is funded with corporate-
owned life insurance (ﬁCOLIﬂ) purchased on the lives of eligible 

employees and retirees. While the Firm owns the COLI policies, 

COLI proceeds (death benefits, withdrawals and other distributions) 

may be used only to reimburse the Firm for its net postretirement 

benefit claim payments and related administrative expense. The 

U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.  
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
186
 The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets and funded status amounts reported on the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets for the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. 
Defined benefit pension plans
   
As of or for the year ended December 31,  
U.S.  
   Non-U.S.
    OPEB plans
(f)
 (in millions) 
 2009 
    2008 
  2009 
     2008 
     2009 
      2008
 Change in benefit obligation 
      
Benefit obligation, beginning of year  
 $ (7,796)
  $ (7,556) 
 $ (2,007)
  $ (2,743) 
 $ (1,095) 
 $ (1,204) 
Benefits earned during the year 
(313)
 (278) 
(30)
 (29) 
(3)
 (5) 
Interest cost on benefit obligations 
(514)
 (488) 
(122)
 (142) 
(64)
 (74) 
Plan amendments 
384
 Š 1 Š Š Š Business combinations 
(4)
(b)
 Š 
Š Š (40)
(b)
 (1)
(b)
 Employee contributions 
NA
 NA 
(3)
 (3) 
(64)
 (61) 
Net gain/(loss) 
(408)
 (147) 
(287)
 214 
101
 99 
Benefits paid 
674
 673 
95
 105 
160
 154 
Expected Medicare Part D subsidy receipts 
NA
 NA 
NA
 NA 
(9)
 (10) 
Curtailments 
Š Š 1 Š (7)
 (6) 
Settlements 
Š Š 4 Š Š Š Special termination benefits 
Š Š (1)
 (3) 
Š Š Foreign exchange impact and other 
Š Š (187)
 594 
(4)
 13 
Benefit obligation, end of year
  $ (7,977)
  $ (7,796) 
 $ (2,536)
  $ (2,007) 
 $ (1,025)
  $ (1,095) 
Change in plan assets
      Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 
 $ 6,948
  $ 9,960 
 $ 2,008
  $ 2,933 
 $ 1,126
  $ 1,406 
Actual return on plan assets 
1,145
 (2,377) 
218
 (298) 
172
 (246) 
Firm contributions 
2,799
 38 
115
 88 
2 3Employee contributions 
Š Š 3 3 
Š ŠBenefits paid 
(674)
 (673) 
(95)
 (105) 
(31)
 (37) 
Settlements 
Š Š (4)
 Š Š ŠForeign exchange impact and other 
Š Š 187
 (613) 
Š ŠFair value of plan assets, end of year
  $  10,218
(c)(d)
  $  6,948
(c)
  $  2,432
(d)
  $  2,008 
 $  1,269
  $ 1,126 
Funded/(unfunded) status
(a) 
  $ 2,241
(e)
  $ (848)
(e)
  $ (104)
   $ 1 
 $ 244
  $      31 
Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year
  $ (7,964)
  $ (7,413) 
 $ (2,510)
  $ (1,977) 
  NA
  NA 
(a) Represents overfunded plans with an aggregate balance of $3.0 billion and $122 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and underfunded plans with an 
aggregate balance of $623 million and $938 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(b) Represents change resulting from the Washington Mutual plan in 2009 and the Bear Stearns plan in 2008.  
(c) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $332 million and $313 million, respectively, of U.S. plan assets included participation rights under participating 
annuity contracts. 
(d) At December 31, 2009, includes accrued receivables of $82 million and $8 million for U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans, respectively, and accrued liabilities of $265 million 
and $30 million for U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans, respectively, which are not measured at fair value. 
(e) Does not include any amounts attributable to the Washington Mutual Qualified Pension plan in 2009 and the Washington Mutual Pension and OPEB plans in 2008. The 
disposition of those plans was not determinable. 
(f) Includes an unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of $29 million and $32 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for the U.K. plan. 
Gains and losses 
For the Firm™s defined benefit pension plans, fair value is used to 

determine the expected return on plan assets. For the Firm™s OPEB 

plans, a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value over 

a five-year period is used to determine the expected return on plan 

assets. Amortization of net gains and losses is included in annual 

net periodic benefit cost if, as of the beginning of the year, the net 

gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit 
obligation or the fair value of the plan assets. Any excess, as well 

as prior service costs, are amortized over the average future service 

period of defined benefit pension plan participants, which for the 

U.S. defined benefit pension plan is currently nine years. For OPEB 

plans, any excess net gains and losses also are amortized over the 

average future service period, which is currently five years; how-

ever, prior service costs are amortized over the average years of 

service remaining to full eligibility age, which is currently four years.  
The following table presents pretax pension and OPEB amounts recorded in AOCI.
 Defined benefit pension plans
   December 31, 
 U.S.     Non-U.S.
    OPEB plans
 (in millions) 
 2009 
    2008 
  2009 
     2008 
     2009 
      2008
 Net gain/(loss)  
 $ (3,039) 
  $ (3,493) 
  $ (666)
   $ (492) 
  $ (171)
 $ (349) 
Prior service credit/(cost) 
  364
   (26) 
  3
   2 
  22
 40
Accumulated other comprehensive income/ 
(loss), pretax, end of year
  $ (2,675)
   $ (3,519) 
  $ (663)
   $ (490) 
  $ (149)
 $ (309) 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 187 
The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income and other com-
prehensive income for the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.
 Defined benefit pension plans
    U.S.     Non-U.S.
    OPEB plans  
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
 2009 
2008 2007 
2009 
2008 2007 
2009 
2008 2007 
Components of net periodic benefit cost
         
 Benefits earned during the year 
 $ 313 
 $ 278 
 $ 270 
 $ 28
  $ 29 
 $ 36 
 $ 3
  $ 5 $      7 
Interest cost on benefit obligations 
514 
488 468 
122 
142 144 
65
 74 74 
Expected return on plan assets 
(585) 
(719) (714) 
(115) 
(152) (153) 
(97)
 (98) (93) 
Amortization: 
   
     
 Net loss 
304 
Š Š 
44 
25 55 
Š Š 14 
Prior service cost/(credit) 
4 
4 5 
Š Š Š 
(14)
 (16) (16) 
Curtailment (gain)/loss 
1 
1 Š 
Š Š Š 
5 4 
2 
Settlement (gain)/loss 
Š Š Š 
1 
Š (1) 
Š Š Š 
Special termination benefits 
Š Š Š 
1 
3 1 
Š Š 
1 
Net periodic benefit cost
 551 
52 29 
81 
47 82 
(38)
 (31) (11) 
Other defined benefit pension plans
(a)
 15 
11 4 
12 
14 27 
NA
 NA NA 
Total defined benefit plans
 566 
63 33 
93 
61 109 
(38)
 (31) (11) 
Total defined contribution plans 
359 
263 268 
226 
286 219 
NA
 NA NA 
Total pension and OPEB cost included  
in
 compensation expense
  $ 925 
 $ 326 
 $ 301 
 $ 319 
 $ 347 
 $ 328 
 $ (38)
  $ (31) $ 
  (11) 
Changes in plan assets and benefit  
obligations recognized in other  
comprehensive income
         
 Net (gain)/loss arising during the year 
 $ (168) 
 $ 3,243 
 $ (533) 
 $ 183
  $ 235 
 $ (176) 
 $ (176)
  $ 248 $ (223) 
Prior service credit arising during the year 
(384) 
Š Š 
(1)
 Š (2) 
Š Š Š 
Amortization of net loss 
(304) 
Š Š 
(44)
 (27) (55) 
Š Š (14) 
Amortization of prior service (cost)/credit 
(6) 
(5) (5) 
Š Š Š 
15
 15 16 
Curtailment (gain)/loss 
Š Š Š 
Š Š (5) 
2 3 
3 
Settlement loss/(gain) 
Š Š Š 
(1)
 Š 1 
Š Š Š 
Foreign exchange impact and other 
18 
Š Š 
36
 (150) Š 
(1)
 3 Š 
Total recognized in other comprehensive 
income
 (844) 
3,238 (538) 
173
 58 (237) 
(160)
 269 (218) 
Total recognized in net periodic benefit  
cost and other comprehensive income
  
 $ (293) 
 $ 3,290 
 $ (509) 
 $ 254
  $  105 
 $ (155) 
 $ (198)
  $ 238 $ (229) 
(a) Includes various defined benefit pension plans, which are individually immaterial.  
 The estimated pretax amounts that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2010 are as follows.  
Defined benefit pension plans  
OPEB plans  
Year ended December 31, 2010 (in millions) 
U.S. 
Non-U.S. U.S.      Non-U.S. 
Net loss 
 $ 226  $ 58  $ Š  $ (1) 
Prior service cost/(credit) 
  (43)   Š   (13)     Š 
Total
  $ 183  $ 58  $ (13)  $ (1
) 
 The following table presents the actual rate of return on plan assets for the U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.  
U.S. 
 Non-U.S. 
December 31, 
2009 
2008 
2007 
    2009 
       2008 
2007 
Actual rate of return: 
      Defined benefit pension plans 
   13.78% 
   (25.17)%    7.96% 
 3.17-22.43%
 (21.58)-5.06% 0.06-7.51% 
OPEB plans 
15.93 
(17.89) 6.51 
 NA 
 NA               NA 
 Plan assumptions 
JPMorgan Chase™s expected long-term rate of return for U.S. de-

fined benefit pension and OPEB plan assets is a blended average of 

the investment advisor™s projected long-term (10 years or more) 

returns for the various asset classes, weighted by the asset alloca-

tion. Returns on asset classes are developed using a forward-

looking building-block approach and are not strictly based on 

historical returns. Equity returns are generally developed as the sum 
of inflation, expected real earnings growth and expected long-term 

dividend yield. Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of 

inflation, real bond yield and risk spread (as appropriate), adjusted 

for the expected effect on returns from changing yields. Other 

asset-class returns are derived from their relationship to the equity 

and bond markets. Consideration is also given to current market 

conditions and the short-term portfolio mix of each plan; as a 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
188
 result, in 2009 the Firm generally maintained the same expected 
return on assets as in the prior year. 
For the U.K. defined benefit pension plans, which represent the 
most significant of the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, 

procedures similar to those in the U.S. are used to develop the 

expected long-term rate of return on defined benefit pension plan 

assets, taking into consideration local market conditions and the 

specific allocation of plan assets. The expected long-term rate of 

return on U.K. plan assets is an average of projected long-term 

returns for each asset class. The return on equities has been se-

lected by reference to the yield on long-term U.K. government 

bonds plus an equity risk premium above the risk-free rate. The 

return on ﬁAAﬂ-rated long-term corporate bonds has been taken as 

the average yield on such bonds. 
The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation under 

the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans was selected by 

reference to the yields on portfolios of bonds with maturity dates 

and coupons that closely match each of the plan™s projected cash 

flows; such portfolios are derived from a broad-based universe of 

high-quality corporate bonds as of the measurement date. In years 

in which these hypothetical bond portfolios generate excess cash, 

such excess is assumed to be reinvested at the one-year forward 

rates implied by the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve published as 

of the measurement date. The discount rate for the U.K. defined 

benefit pension and OPEB plans represents a rate implied from the 

yield curve of the year-end iBoxx £ corporate ﬁAAﬂ 15-year-plus 

bond index. 
The following tables present the weighted-average annualized actuarial assumptions for the projected and accumulated postretirement benefit 

obligations, and the components of net periodic benefit costs, for the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, as of 

and for the periods indicated. 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations 
 U.S. 
 Non-U.S  
December 31, 
 2009 
       2008 
     2009 
    2008
 Discount rate: 
          Defined benefit pension plans 
6.00% 
6.65% 
     2.00-5.70% 
2.00-6.20% 
      OPEB plans 
6.00 
6.70 
 5.70 
6.20 
Rate of compensation increase 
4.00 
4.00 
 3.00-4.50 
3.00-4.00 
Health care cost trend rate: 
          Assumed for next year 
7.75 
8.50 
 5.40 
7.00 
      Ultimate 
5.00 
5.00 
 4.50 
5.50 
      Year when rate will reach ultimate 
 2014 
 2014 
 2014 
2012 
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs 
 U.S. 
 Non-U.S. 
 Year ended December 31, 
 2009 
2008  2007 
  2009 
2008 
2007
  Discount rate:  
   
          Defined benefit pension plans 
6.65% 
6.60% 5.95% 
   2.00-6.20% 
 2.25-5.80%  2.25-5.10
 %       OPEB plans 
6.70 
6.60 5.90 
 6.20 
 5.80  5.10
  Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets: 
   
          Defined benefit pension plans 
7.50 
7.50 7.50 
 2.50-6.90 
 3.25-5.75  3.25-5.60
        OPEB plans 
7.00 
7.00 7.00 
 NA 
 NA  NA
  Rate of compensation increase 
4.00 
4.00 4.00 
 3.00-4.00 
 3.00-4.25  3.00-4.00
  Health care cost trend rate: 
   
          Assumed for next year 
 8.50 
 9.25  10.00 
 7.00 
 5.75  6.63
        Ultimate 
 5.00 
 5.00  5.00 
 5.50 
 4.00  4.00
        Year when rate will reach ultimate 
 2014 
 2014  2014 
 2012 
 2010  2010
  The following table presents the effect of a one-percentage-point 
change in the assumed health care cost trend rate on JPMorgan 

Chase™s total service and interest cost and accumulated postretire-

ment benefit obligation. 
 1-Percentage- 1-Percentage- 
Year ended December 31, 2009 point point 
(in millions) 
increase decrease 
Effect on total service and interest cost $  2 $  (2) 
Effect on accumulated postretirement 
benefit obligation 
36 
(31) 
At December 31, 2009, the Firm decreased the discount rates used 
to determine its benefit obligations for the U.S. defined benefit 

pension and OPEB plans in light of current market interest rates, 

which will result in an increase in expense of approximately $31 
million for 2010. The 2010 expected long-term rate of return on 

U.S. pension plan assets and U.S. OPEB plan assets remained at 

7.5% and 7.0%, respectively
. The health care benefit obligation 
trend assumption declined from 8.5% in 2009 to 7.75% in 2010, 

declining to a rate of 5% in 2014. As of December 31, 2009, the 

interest crediting rate assumption and the assumed rate of com-

pensation increase remained at 5.25% and 4.0%, respectively.  
JPMorgan Chase™s U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan 
expense is sensitive to the expected long-term rate of return on 

plan assets and the discount rate. With all other assumptions held 

constant, a 25-basis point decline in the expected long-term rate of 

return on U.S. plan assets would result in an increase of approxi-

mately $28 million in 2010 U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 189 
plan expense. A 25-basis point decline in the discount rate for the 
U.S. plans would result in an increase in 2010 U.S. defined benefit 

pension and OPEB plan expense of approximately $12 million and 

an increase in the related benefit obligations of approximately $170 

million. A 25-basis point decline in the discount rates for the non-

U.S. plans would result in an increase in the 2010 non-U.S. defined 

benefit pension and OPEB plan expense of approximately $10 

million. A 25-basis point increase in the interest crediting rate for 

the U.S. defined benefit pension plan would result in an increase in 

2010 U.S. defined benefit pension expense of approximately $16 

million and an increase in the related projected benefit obligations 

of approximately $67 million. 
Investment strategy and asset allocation 
The Firm™s U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets are held in trust 

and are invested in a well-diversified portfolio of equities (including 

U.S. large and small capitalization and international equities), fixed 

income (e.g., corporate and government bonds, including U.S. Treas-

ury inflation-indexed and high-yield securities), real estate, cash and 

cash equivalents, and alternative investments (e.g., hedge funds, 

private equity funds, and real estate funds). Non-U.S. defined benefit 

pension plan assets are held in various trusts and are also invested in 

well-diversified portfolios of equity, fixed income and other securities. 

Assets of the Firm™s COLI policies, which are used to fund partially the 

U.S. OPEB plan, are held in separate accounts with an insurance 

company and are invested in equity and fixed income index funds. As 

of December 31, 2009, assets held by the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. 

defined benefit pension and OPEB plans do not include JPMorgan 

Chase common stock, except in connection with investments in third-

party stock-index funds. In addition, the plans hold investments in 

funds that are sponsored or managed by affiliates of JPMorgan Chase 

in the amount of $1.6 billion and $1.1 billion for U.S. plans and $474 

million and $354 million for non-U.S. plans, as of December 31, 2009 

and 2008, respectively. 
The investment policy for the Firm™s U.S. postretirement employee 
benefit plan assets is to optimize the risk-return relationship as 

appropriate to the plan™s needs and goals using a global portfolio 

of various asset classes diversified by market segment, economic 

sector, and issuer. Periodically the Firm performs a comprehensive 
analysis on the plan™s asset allocations, incorporating projected 

asset and liability data, which focuses on the short-and long-term 

impact of the plan™s asset allocation on cumulative pension ex-

pense, economic cost, present value of contributions and funded 

status. Currently, approved asset allocation ranges are: U.S. equity 

15 Œ 35%, international equity 15 Œ 25%, debt securities 10 Œ 

30%, hedge funds 10 Œ 30%, real estate 5 Œ 20%, and private 

equity 5 Œ 20%. The plan does not manage to a specific target 

asset allocation, but seeks to shift asset class allocations within 

these stated ranges. Plan assets are managed by a combination of 

internal and external investment managers. Asset allocation deci-

sions also incorporate the economic outlook and anticipated impli-

cations of the macroeconomic environment on the plan™s various 

asset classes and managers. Maintaining an appropriate level of 

liquidity, which takes into consideration forecasted requirements for 

cash is a major consideration in the asset allocation process. The 

Firm regularly reviews the asset allocations and all factors that 

continuously impact portfolio changes to ensure the plan stays 

within these asset allocation ranges. The asset allocations are 

rebalanced when deemed necessary. 
The plan™s investments include financial instruments
 which are 
exposed to various risks such as interest rate, market and credit 

risks. The plan™s exposure to a concentration of credit risk is miti-

gated by the broad diversification of both U.S. and non-U.S. in-

vestment instruments. Additionally, the investments in each of the 

common/collective trust funds and registered investment companies 

are further diversified into various financial instruments. 
For the U.K. defined benefit pension plans, which represent the 
most significant of the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the 

assets are invested to maximize returns subject to an appropriate 

level of risk relative to the plan™s liabilities. In order to reduce the 

volatility in returns relative to the plan™s liability profiles, the U.K. 

defined benefit pension plan™s largest asset allocations are to debt 

securities of appropriate durations. Other assets are then invested 

for capital appreciation, mainly equity securities, to provide long-

term investment growth. The plan™s asset allocations are reviewed 

on a regular basis.  
The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation of the fair values of total plan assets at December 31 for the years indi-
cated, as well as the respective approved range/target allocation by asset category, for the Firm™s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension 

and OPEB plans.
   Defined benefit pension plans 
     
U.S. 
   
Non-U.S. 
  OPEB plans
(c)
   Target  % of plan assets 
 Target
   % of plan assets 
 Target
   % of plan assets
  December 31, 
Allocation 
2009
 2008 Allocation
 2009
 2008 Allocation
  2009
 2008
  Asset category 
   
    
   Debt securities
(a)
  10-30% 
 29% 
25% 72% 
75%
 73%   50% 
50%
 50
 % 
Equity securities  25-60 
 40 
36 26 
23
 21 50 
50
 50
  Real estate 
   5-20 
   4 
7 1 
1 1 Š 
Š Š  Alternatives
(b)
  15-50 
 27 
32 1 
1 5 Š 
Š Š
  Total 
    100% 
    100% 
100% 100% 
100%
 100% 100% 
100%
 100
 % 
(a) Debt securities primarily include corporate debt, U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. government, and mortgage-backed securities. 
(b) Alternatives primarily include limited partnerships. 
(c) Represents the U.S. OPEB plan only, as the U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.  

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
190
 Fair value measurement of the plans™ assets and liabilities 
The following details the instruments measured at fair value, in-

cluding the general classification of such instruments pursuant to 

the valuation hierarchy, as described in Note 3 on pages 156Œ173 

of this Annual Report. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents includes currency on hand, demand 

deposits with banks or other financial institutions, and any short-

term, highly liquid investments readily convertible into cash (i.e., 

investments with original maturities of three months or less). Due 

to the highly liquid nature of these assets they are classified within 

level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Equity securities
  Common and preferred stocks are valued at the closing price re-

ported on the major stock exchange on which the individual securi-

ties are traded and are generally classified within level 1 of the 

valuation hierarchy.  
Common/collective trust funds  
These investments are public investment fund vehicles valued based 

on the quoted NAV, and they are generally classified within level 2 

of the valuation hierarchy. 
Limited partnerships 
Limited partnerships include investments in hedge funds, private 

equity funds and real estate funds. Hedge funds are valued based 

on quoted NAV and are classified within level 2 or 3 of the valua-

tion hierarchy depending on the level of liquidity and activity in the 

markets for each investment. Certain of these investments are 

subject to restrictions on redemption (such as initial lock-up peri-

ods, withdrawal limitations and illiquid assets) and are therefore 

classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The valuation of 

private equity investments and real estate funds require significant 

management judgment due to the absence of quoted market 

prices, the inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of 

such assets and therefore, they are generally classified within level 

3 of the valuation hierarchy.  
Corporate debt securities and U.S. federal, state, local and non-
government debt securities
  A limited number of these investments are valued at the closing 

price reported on the major exchange on which the individual 

securities are traded. Where quoted prices are available in an active 

market, the investments are classified within level 1 of the valua-

tion hierarchy. If quoted market prices are not available for the 

specific security, then fair values are estimated by using pricing 

models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or 
discounted cash flows. Such securities are generally classified 

within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Mortgage-backed securities 
Mortgage-backed securities include both U.S. government agency 

and nonagency securities. U.S. government agency securities are 

valued based on quoted prices in active markets and are therefore 

classified in level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Nonagency securities 

are primarily ﬁAAAﬂ rated residential and commercial mortgage-

based securities valued using a combination of observed transac-

tion prices, independent pricing services and relevant broker 

quotes.  Consideration is given to the nature of the quotes and the 

relationships of recently evidenced market activity to the prices 

provided from independent pricing services. Such securities are 

generally classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
 Derivative receivables and derivative payables 
In the normal course of business, foreign exchange, credit deriva-
tive, interest rate and equity derivative contracts are used by the 

plans to minimize fluctuations in the value of plan assets caused by 

foreign exchange, credit, interest rate, and equity risks. These 
instruments may also be used in lieu of investing in cash instru-
ments. These derivative instruments are primarily valued using 

internally developed models that use as their basis readily observ-

able market parameters and are therefore classified within level 2 

of the valuation hierarchy.
 Other 
Other consists of exchange traded funds (ﬁETFsﬂ), mutual fund 
investments, and participating and non-participating annuity con-

tracts (the ﬁAnnuity Contractsﬂ). ETFs and mutual fund investments 

are valued using NAV.  Those fund investments with a daily NAV 

that are validated by a sufficient level of observable activity (pur-

chases and sales at NAV) are classified in level 1 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Where adjustments to the NAV are required, for exam-

ple, for fund investments subject to restrictions on redemption 

(such as lock-up periods or withdrawal limitations), and/or observ-

able activity for the fund investment is limited, fund investments are 

classified in level 2 or 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Annuity Con-

tracts are valued at the amount by which the fair value of the 

assets held in the separate account exceeds the actuarially deter-

mined guaranteed benefit obligation covered under the Annuity 

Contracts. Annuity Contracts lack market mechanisms for transfer-

ring each individual policy and generally include restrictions on the 

timing of surrender; therefore, these investments are classified 

within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
 191 
Pension and OPEB plan assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
 U.S. defined benefit pension plans              Non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans   
December 31, 2009 
(in millions) 
Quoted  
prices in active 
markets for 
identical assets
 (Level 1) 
Significant 
observable 
inputs 
(Level 2) 
Significant 
unobserv
able 
inputs 
(Level 3)     Total 
Quoted  
prices in active 
 markets for 
identical assets
 (Level 1) 
Significant 
observable 
 inputs 
(Level 2) 
Significant 
unobserv
able 
inputs 
(Level 3)        Total 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 $ 71  $ Š  $ Š $ 71  $ 27  $ Š  $ Š  $ 27
 Equity securities
(a)
   2,772   14   Š   2,786   493   75   Š   568
 Common/collective trust funds
(b)
   Š   2,478   Š   2,478   23   185   Š   208
 Limited partnerships
(c)
   Š   912   1,697   2,609   Š   Š   Š   Š
 Corporate debt securities
(d)
   Š   941   Š   941   Š   685   Š   685
 U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S.  
government debt securities  
  Š   406   Š   406   Š   841   Š   841
 Mortgage-backed securities
(e)
   169   54   Š   223   Š   Š   Š   Š
 Derivative receivables
(f)
   Š   90   Š   90   Š   5   Š   5
 Other  
  348   115   334   797   18   89   13   120
 Total assets at fair value 
 $ 3,360  $ 5,010  $ 2,031 $ 10,401
(g)
  $ 561  $ 1,880  $ 13  $ 2,454
 (g)
 Derivative payables 
  Š   (76)   Š   (76)   Š   (30)   Š   (30
 ) 
Total liabilities at fair value 
 $  Š  $ (76)  $ Š $ (76)
(h)
  $ Š  $ (30)  $ Š  $ (30
 ) 
(a) This class is generally invested in 84% large cap funds and 16% small/mid cap funds. 
(b) This class generally includes commingled funds that are issued for investment by qualified pension plans. They primarily include 39% short-term investment funds, 24% 
equity (index) and 15% international investments. 
(c) This class includes U.S. and non-U.S. assets, which are invested as follows: 59% in hedge funds, 34% in private equity funds, and 7% in real estate funds. 

(d) This class includes debt securities of U.S. and non-U.S. corporations. 
(e) This class is generally invested in 72% debt securities issued by U.S. government agencies. 
(f) This class primarily includes 80% foreign exchange contracts and 16% equity warrants. 

(g) Excludes receivables for investments sold and dividends and interest receivables of $82 million and $8 million for U.S. and non-U.S., respectively. 
(h) Excludes payables for investments purchased of $177 million and other liabilities of $12 million.  
The Firm™s OPEB plan is funded with COLI policies of $1.3 billion, which are classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Changes in level 3 fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs 
 Fair value, 
 January 1, 2009 
Total realized/ 
(unrealized) 
gains/(losses)
(a)
 Purchases, sales 
and settlements 
Transfers into and/or 
out of  
level 3 
 Fair value, 
 December 31, 
  
  2009 
U.S. defined benefit pension plans  
    Limited partnerships 
 $ 1,537  $ 4  $ 171  $ (15)  $ 1,697
Other 
  315   19   Š   Š   334
  Total U.S. plans 
  1,852   23   171   (15)   2,031
Non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans  
      Other 
  14   (1)   Š   Š   13
     Total non-U.S. plans 
 $ 14  $ (1)  $ Š  $ Š  $ 13
OPEB plans 
       COLI 
  1,126   172   (29)   Š   1,269
Total OPEB plans 
 $ 1,126  $ 172  $ (29)  $ Š  $ 1,269
(a) Total realized (unrealized) gains/(losses) is the change in unrealized gains or losses relating to assets held at December 31, 2009. 
Estimated future benefit payments  
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid, which include the effect of expected future service, for the years indicated. 

The OPEB medical and life insurance payments are net of expected retiree contributions.
  
 U.S. 
Non-U.S. 
  Year ended December 31, 
defined benefit 
defined benefit 
OPEB before 
   Medicare 
(in millions) 
pension plans 
pension plans Medicare Part D subsidy     Part D subsidy 
2010 
 $ 974 
 $ 90 
 $ 103 
 $ 10 
2011 
979 83 103 
11 
2012 
576 
93 
101 
12 
2013 
579 
100 
99 
13 
2014 
584 
103 
97 
14 
Years 2015Œ2019 
2,939 
627 
443 
66 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 192
 Note 9 Œ Employee stock-based incentives  
Employee stock-based awards  
In 2009, 2008, and 2007, JPMorgan Chase granted long-term 
stock-based awards to certain key employees under the 2005 Long-

Term Incentive Plan (the ﬁ2005 Planﬂ). The 2005 Plan, plus prior 

Firm plans and plans assumed as the result of acquisitions, consti-

tute the Firm™s stock-based incentive plans (collectively,ﬁLTI Planﬂ). 

The 2005 Plan became effective on May 17, 2005, and was 

amended in May 2008. Under the terms of the amended 2005 

plan, as of December 31, 2009, 199 million shares of common 

stock are available for issuance through May 2013. The amended 

2005 Plan is the only active plan under which the Firm is currently 

granting stock-based incentive awards. 
Restricted stock units (ﬁRSUsﬂ) are awarded at no cost to the recipi-
ent upon their grant. RSUs are generally granted annually and gener-

ally vest at a rate of 50% after two years and 50% after three years 

and convert into shares of common stock at the vesting date. In 

addition, RSUs typically include full-career eligibility provisions, which 

allow employees to continue to vest upon voluntary termination, 

subject to post-employment and other restrictions based on age or 

service-related requirements. All of these awards are subject to 

forfeiture until the vesting date. An RSU entitles the recipient to 

receive cash payments equivalent to any dividends paid on the under-

lying common stock during the period the RSU is outstanding and, as 

such, are considered participating securities as discussed in Note 25 

on page 232 of this Annual Report.  
Under the LTI Plan, stock options and stock appreciation rights 
(ﬁSARsﬂ) have been granted with an exercise price equal to the fair 

value of JPMorgan Chase™s common stock on the grant date. The 

Firm typically awards SARs to certain key employees once per year, 

and it also periodically grants discretionary stock-based incentive 

awards to individual employees, primarily in the form of both 

employee stock options and SARs. The 2009, 2008 and 2007 

grants of SARs to key employees vest ratably over 5 years (i.e., 

20% per year) and do not include any full-career eligibility provi-

sions. These awards generally expire 10 years after the grant date.  
The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense for each 
tranche of each award as if it were a separate award with its own 

vesting date. Generally, for each tranche granted, compensation 

expense is recognized on a straight-line basis from the grant date 

until the vesting date of the respective tranche, provided that the 

employees will not become full-career eligible during the vesting 

period. For awards with full-career eligibility provisions, the Firm 

accrues the estimated value of awards expected to be awarded to 

employees who will be retirement-eligible as of the grant date 

without giving consideration to the impact of post-employment 

restrictions. For each tranche granted to employees who will be-

come full-career eligible during the vesting period, compensation 

expense is recognized on a straight-line basis from the grant date 

until the earlier of the employee™s full-career eligibility date or the 

vesting date of the respective tranche. 
 The Firm™s policy for issuing shares upon settlement of employee 

stock-based incentive awards is to issue either new shares of com-

mon stock or treasury shares. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the 

Firm settled all of its employee stock-based awards by issuing 

treasury shares. 
In January 2008, the Firm awarded to its Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer up to 2 million SARs. The terms of this award are 

distinct from, and more restrictive than, other equity grants regu-

larly awarded by the Firm. The SARs, which have a 10-year term, 

will become exercisable no earlier than January 22, 2013, and have 

an exercise price of $39.83
. The number of SARs that will become 
exercisable (ranging from none to the full 2 million) and their 
exercise date or dates may be determined by the Board of Directors 

based on an annual assessment of the performance of both the 

CEO and JPMorgan Chase. The Firm recognizes this award ratably 

over an assumed five-year service period, subject to a requirement 

to recognize changes in the fair value of the award through the 

grant date. The Firm recognized $9 million and $1 million in com-

pensation expense in 2009 and 2008, respectively, for this award. 
In connection with the Bear Stearns merger, 46 million Bear Stearns 
employee stock awards, principally RSUs, capital appreciation plan 

units and stock options, were exchanged for equivalent JPMorgan 

Chase awards using the merger exchange ratio of 0.21753. The fair 

value of these employee stock awards was included in the Bear 

Stearns purchase price, since substantially all of the awards were 

fully vested immediately after the merger date under provisions that 

provided for accelerated vesting upon a change of control of Bear 

Stearns. However, Bear Stearns vested employee stock options had 

no impact on the purchase price; since the employee stock options 

were significantly out of the money at the merger date, the fair 

value of these awards was equal to zero upon their conversion into 

JPMorgan Chase options.  
The Firm also exchanged 6 million shares of its common stock for  
27 million shares of Bear Stearns common stock held in an irrevoca-

ble grantor trust (the ﬁRSU Trustﬂ), using the merger exchange ratio 

of 0.21753. The RSU Trust was established to hold common stock 

underlying awards granted to selected employees and key executives 

under certain Bear Stearns employee stock plans. The RSU Trust was 

consolidated on JPMorgan Chase™s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 

June 30, 2008, and the shares held in the RSU Trust were recorded in 

ﬁShares held in RSU Trust,ﬂ which reduced stockholders™ equity, 

similar to the treatment for treasury stock. A related obligation to 

issue stock under these employee stock plans is reported in capital 

surplus. The issuance of shares held in the RSU Trust to employees 

has no effect on the Firm™s total stockholders™ equity, net income or 

earnings per share. Shares held in the RSU Trust were distributed in 

2008 and 2009, with a majority of the shares in the RSU Trust dis-

tributed through December 2009. There were 2 million shares in the 

RSU Trust as of December 31, 2009. The remaining shares are ex-

pected to be distributed over the next three years. 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 193
 RSU activity  
Compensation expense for RSUs is measured based on the number of shares granted multiplied by the stock price at the grant date and is recog-

nized in income as previously described. The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase™s RSU activity for 2009.  
Year ended December 31, 2009
  
(in thousands, except weighted average data)  
Number of shares 
       Weighted-average 
        grant date fair value
 Outstanding, January 1 
148,044  
$ 42.53
Granted 
131,145     19.68
Vested 
(49,822)     43.34
Forfeited 
(8,102)     29.58
Outstanding, December 31
 221,265  
$ 29.32
The total fair value of shares that vested during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $1.3 billion, $1.6 billion and  

$1.5 billion, respectively. 
Employee stock option and SARs activity 
 Compensation expense, which is measured at the grant date as the fair value of employee stock options and SARs, is recognized in net income 
as described above.  
The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase™s employee stock option and SARs activity for the year ended December 31, 2009, including 
awards granted to key employees and awards granted in prior years under broad-based plans.  
Year ended December 31, 2009  
(in thousands, except weighted-average data)  
Number of  
options/SARs 
Weighted-average  
exercise price 
Weighted-average remaining 
contractual life (in years) 
   Aggregate 
intrinsic value
Outstanding, January 1 
283,369  $  47.21 
  Granted 
24,821   20.83   
Exercised  
(17,406)   30.81 
  Forfeited  
(1,913)   39.85 
  Canceled  
(22,303)   47.88 
  Outstanding, December 31 
266,568  $ 45.83 
3.4 
$  1,311,897
 Exercisable, December 31 
214,443   48.94 
2.2 
765,276
  The weighted-average grant date per share fair value of stock 
options and SARs granted during the years ended December 31, 

2009, 2008 and 2007, was $8.24, $10.36 and $13.38, respec-

tively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years 

ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $154 million, 

$391 million and $937 million, respectively.  
Compensation expense 
The Firm recognized noncash compensation expense related to its 

various employee stock-based incentive awards of $3.4 billion, 

$2.6 billion and $2.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 

2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, in its Consolidated Statements 

of Income. These amounts included an accrual for the estimated 

cost of stock awards to be granted to full-career eligible employees 

of $845 million, $409 million and $500 million for the years ended 

December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 

31, 2009, approximately $1.6 billion (pretax) of compensation cost 

related to unvested awards had not yet been charged to net in-

come. That cost is expected to be amortized into compensation 

expense over a weighted-average period of 1.2 years. The Firm 

does not capitalize any compensation cost related to share-based 

compensation awards to employees.  
Cash flows and tax benefits  

Income tax benefits related to stock-based incentive arrangements 

recognized in the Firm™s Consolidated Statements of Income for 

the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, were $1.3 

billion, $1.1 billion and $810 million, respectively. 
The following table sets forth the cash received from the exercise 
of stock options under all stock-based incentive arrangements, and 

the actual income tax benefit realized related to tax deductions 

from the exercise of the stock options. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2009
 2008
 2007
 Cash received for options exercised 
$  437
 $1,026
 $2,023
 Tax benefit realized 
11
 72
 238
 In June 2007, the FASB ratified guidance which requires that 

realized tax benefits from dividends or dividend equivalents paid 

on equity-classified share-based payment awards that are 

charged to retained earnings be recorded as an increase to 

additional paid-in capital and included in the pool of excess tax 

benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies on share-based 

payment awards. Prior to the issuance of this guidance, the Firm 

did not include these tax benefits as part of this pool of excess 

tax benefits. The Firm adopted this guidance on January 1, 2008, 

and it did not have an impact on the Firm™s Consolidated Bal-

ance Sheets or results of operations. 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 194
 The following table presents the assumptions used to value em-
ployee stock options and SARs granted during the years ended 

December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, under the Black-Scholes 

valuation model. 
Valuation assumptions 
Year ended December 31, 
 2009
  2008 2007
  Weighted-average annualized   
   valuation assumptions
   
  Risk-free interest rate 
  2.33%
        3.90%
  4.78
 % Expected dividend yield
(a)
  3.40
  3.57 3.18
  Expected common stock price volatility
  56
  34 33
  Expected life (in years) 
 6.6
  6.8 6.8
  (a) In 2009, the expected dividend yield was determined using historical  
dividend yields. 
The expected volatility assumption is derived from the implied 
volatility of JPMorgan Chase™s publicly traded stock options. The 

expected life assumption is an estimate of the length of time 

that an employee might hold an option or SAR before it is exer-

cised or canceled, and the assumption is based on the Firm™s 

historic experience. 
 
 
 
 Note 10 Œ Noninterest expense 
The following table presents the components of nonin
terest expense. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
   2009 
  2008 2007
Compensation expense 
  $ 26,928
   $ 22,746  $ 22,689
Noncompensation expense: 
  Occupancy expense 
  3,666
   3,038   2,608
Technology, communications and equipment expense 
  4,624
   4,315   3,779
Professional and outside services 
  6,232
   6,053   5,140
Marketing 
  1,777
   1,913   2,070
Other expense
(a)(b)
   7,594
   3,740   3,814
Amortization of intangibles 
  1,050
   1,263   1,394
Total noncompensation expense 
  24,943 
  20,322   18,805
Merger costs 
  481
   432   209
Total noninterest expense
  
  $ 52,352
   $ 43,500  $ 41,703
(a) Includes a $675 million FDIC special assessment in 2009. 
(b) Included foreclosed property expense of $1.4 billion, $213 million and $56 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For additional information regarding fore-
closed property, see Note 13 on pages 200Œ204 of this Annual Report. 
Merger costs 
Costs associated with the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008, the 2004 merger with Bank One Corporation 
and The Bank of New York, Inc. (ﬁThe Bank of New Yorkﬂ) transaction in 2006 are reflected in the merger costs caption of the Consolidated 

Statements of Income. For a further discussion of the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction, see Note 2 on pages 151Œ
156 of this Annual Report. A summary of merger-related costs is shown in the following table.  
   
2009 
   
2008 
   Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
Bear  
Stearns 
Washington
 Mutual Total 
Bear  
Stearns 
Washington 
Mutual Total 
2007
(b)
 Expense category
       
 Compensation 
  $ (9)
   $ 256
   $ 247
   $ 181   $ 113   $ 294  $ 
(19
) 
Occupancy 
  (3)
   15
   12
   42   Š   42   
17
 Technology and communications and other 
  38
   184
   222
   85   11   96   
188
 The Bank of New York transaction 
  Š
   Š
   Š
   Š   Š   Š   
23
 Total
(a)
   $ 26
   $ 455
   $ 481
   $ 308   $ 124   $ 432  $ 
209
 (a) With the exception of occupancy- and technology-related write-offs, all of the costs in the table required the expenditure of cash. 
(b) The 2007 activity reflects the 2004 merger with Bank One Corporation and the transaction with The Bank of New York. 
The table below shows changes in the merger reserve balance related to costs associated with the above transactions. 
   
2009 
   
2008 
   
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
Bear  
Stearns 
Washington
 Mutual Total 
Bear  
Stearns 
Washington
 Mutual Total 2007
(a)
 Merger reserve balance, beginning of period 
  $ 327
   $ 441
   $   768
   $      Š   $   Š   $      Š  $ 155
 Recorded as merger costs 
  26
   455
   481
   308   124   432 186
Recorded as goodwill 
  (5)
   Š
   (5)
   1,112   435   1,547 (60) 
Utilization of merger reserve 
  (316)
   (839)
   (1,155)
   (1,093)   (118)   (1,211)
 (281) 
Merger reserve balance, end of period
   $   32
   $   57
   $     89
   $    327   $ 441   $    768  $  Š
(b)
 (a) The 2007 activity reflects the 2004 merger with Bank One Corporation. 

(b) Excludes $10 million at December 31, 2007, related to the Bank of New York transaction. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 195
 Note 11 Œ Securities  
Securities are classified as AFS, held-to-maturity (
ﬁHTMﬂ) or trad-
ing. Trading securities are discussed in Note 3 on pages 156Œ173 
of this Annual Report. Securities are classified primarily as AFS 

when used to manage the Firm™s exposure to interest rate move-

ments, as well as to make strategic longer-term investments. AFS 

securities are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets. Unrealized gains and losses, after any applicable hedge 

accounting adjustments, are reported as net increases or decreases 

to accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). The specific 

identification method is used to determine realized gains and losses 

on AFS securities, which are included in securities gains/(losses) on 

the Consolidated Statements of Income. Securities that the Firm has 

the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as 

HTM and are carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets. The Firm has not classified new purchases of securities as 

HTM for the past several years. 
The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS  

securities. 
Year ended December 31,     
(in millions) 
2009
 2008
 2007
 Realized gains 
 $ 2,268
 $ 1,890
  $ 667
  Realized losses 
  (580)
 (254)
   (503
 ) 
Net realized gains
(a)
   1,688
      1,636
   164
  Credit losses included in securities 
gains
(b)
   (578)
      (76)
   Š
  Net securities gains  $ 1,110
 $ 1,560
  $ 164
  (a) Proceeds from securities sold were within approximately 3% of amortized cost in 
2009 and approximately 2% of amortized cost in 2008 and 2007. 
(b) Includes other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized in income on 
certain prime and subprime mortgage-backed securities and obligations of U.S. 
states and municipalities. 
 
 
 
   
  The amortized costs and estimated fair values of AFS and HTM securities were as follows for the dates indicated. 
 2009 
 2008 
December 31, (in millions) 
Amortized 
 cost 
Gross 
unrealized 
gains 
Gross 
unrealized 
losses 
Fair  
value 
Amortized 
cost 
Gross 
unrealized 
gains 
Gross 
unrealized 
losses 
Fair
. value 
Available-for-sale debt securities 
   
    Mortgage-backed securities
(a)
: 
       U.S. government agencies
(b)
  
$ 166,094  $ 2,412  $ 608 $  167,898 
$  115,198  $ 2,414  $ 227 $  117,385
 Residential: 
          Prime and Alt-A 
  5,234   96   807
(d)
   4,523 
  8,826   4   1,935 6,895
   Subprime 
  17   Š   Š   17 
  213   Š   19 194
   Non-U.S. 
  10,003   320   65   10,258 
  2,233   24   182 2,075
 Commercial 
  4,521   132   63   4,590 
  4,623   Š   684 3,939
 Total mortgage-backed securities $  185,869  $ 2,960  $ 1,543 $  187,286 
$  131,093  $ 2,442  $ 3,047 $  130,488
 U.S. Treasury and government 
agencies
(b)
   30,044   88   135   29,997 
  10,402   52   97 10,357
 Obligations of U.S. states and 
municipalities 
  6,270   292   25   6,537 
  3,479   94   238 3,335
 Certificates of deposit 
  2,649   1   Š   2,650 
  17,226   64   8 17,282
 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
  24,320   234   51   24,503 
  8,173   173   2 8,344
 Corporate debt securities 
  61,226   812   30   62,008 
  9,358   257   61 9,554
 Asset-backed securities
(a)
: 
        Credit card receivables 
  25,266   502   26   25,742 
  13,651   8   2,268 11,391
 Collateralized debt and loan  
   obligations 
  12,172   413   436   12,149 
  11,847   168   820 11,195
 Other 
  6,719   129   54   6,794 
  1,026   4   135 895
 Total available-for-sale debt 
securities 
$  354,535  $ 5,431  $ 2,300
(d)
 $  357,666 
$  206,255  $ 3,262  $ 6,676 $  202,841
 Available-for-sale equity securities 
  2,518   185   4   2,699 
  3,073   2   7 3,068
 Total available-for-sale securities $  357,053  $ 5,616  $ 2,304
(d)
 $  360,365 
$  209,328  $ 3,264  $ 6,683 $  205,909
 Total held-to-maturity securities
(c)
 $  25  $ 2  $ Š $  27 
$  34  $ 1  $ Š $           35
 (a) Prior periods have been revised to conform to the current presentation.  
(b) Includes total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations with fair values of $153.0 billion and $120.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, 
which were predominantly mortgage-related.  
(c) Consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. 

(d) Includes a total of $368 million (before tax) of unrealized losses related to prime mortgage-backed securities reported in accumulated comprehensive income not related 
to credit on debt securities for which credit losses have been recognized in income.  

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 196
 Securities impairment
 The following table presents the fair value and gross unrealized losses for AFS securities by aging category at December 31.  
      Securities with gross unrealized losses 
  Less than 12 months 
  12 months or more 
  
 December 31, 2009
  (in millions) Fair value 
Gross  
unrealized 
losses Fair value 
Gross  
unrealized 
losses 
Total fair  
value 
Total gross 
unrealized 
losses 
Available-for-sale debt securities 
      Mortgage-backed securities: 
     U.S. government agencies  
 $ 43,235  $ 603  $ 644  $ 5  $ 43,879
  $ 608
Residential: 
        Prime and Alt-A 
183 27 3,032 780 3,215
 807
   Subprime 
Š Š Š Š Š
 Š   Non-U.S. 
391 
1 1,773 64 2,164
 65
Commercial 
679 34 229 29 908
 63
Total mortgage-backed securities 
44,488 665 5,678 878 50,166
 1,543
U.S. Treasury and government agencies 
8,433 135 Š Š 8,433
 135
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
472 11 389 14 861
 25
Certificates of deposit 
Š Š 
Š Š 
Š ŠNon-U.S. government debt securities 
2,471 46 835 
5 3,306
 51
Corporate debt securities 
1,831 12 4,634 18 6,465
 30
Asset-backed securities: 
     Credit card receivables 
Š Š 745 26 745
 26
Collateralized debt and loan obligations 
42 
1 7,883 435 7,925
 436
Other 
767 
8 1,767 46 2,534
 54
Total available-for-sale debt securities 
58,504 878 21,931 1,422 80,435
 2,300
Available-for-sale equity securities 
1 
1 
3 
3 
4 4Total securities with gross unrealized losses
  $ 58,505  $ 879  $ 21,934  $ 1,425  $ 80,439
  $ 2,304
      Securities with gross unrealized losses 
  Less than 12 months 
  12 months or more 
  
 December 31, 2008  (in millions) 
Fair value 
Gross  
unrealized 
losses Fair value 
Gross  
unrealized 
losses 
Total fair 
value 
Total gross 
unrealized 
losses 
Available-for-sale debt securities 
      Mortgage-backed securities
(a)
: 
      U.S. government agencies 
 $ 6,016  $ 224  $ 469  $ 3  $ 6,485  $ 227
 Residential: 
         Prime and Alt-A 
6,254 1,838 
333 
97 6,587 1,935
    Subprime 
Š Š 151 19 
151 19
    Non-U.S. 
1,908 182 
Š Š  1,908 182
 Commercial 
3,939 684 
Š Š 3,939 684
 Total mortgage-backed securities 
18,117 2,928  953 119  19,070 3,047
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)
 7,659 97 
Š Š 7,659 97
 Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
1,129 232 
16 
6 1,145 238
 Certificates of deposit 
382 
8 
Š Š 382 
8 Non-U.S. government debt securities 
308 
1 
74 
1 
382 
2 Corporate debt securities 
558 54 
30 
7 
588 61
 Asset-backed securities
(a)
: 
      Credit card receivables 
10,267 1,964 
472 304 10,739 2,268
 Collateralized debt and loan obligations 
9,059 820 
Š Š 9,059 820
 Other 
813 134 
17 
1 
830 135
 Total available-for-sale debt securities 
48,292 6,238  1,562 438  49,854 6,676
 Available-for-sale equity securities 
19 
7 
Š Š 19 
7 Total securities with gross unrealized losses
  $ 48,311  $ 6,245  $1,562  $ 438  $ 49,873  $ 6,683
 (a) Prior periods have been revised to conform to the current presentation. 
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 197
 Other-than-temporary impairment 
In April 2009, the FASB amended the other-than-temporary im-

pairment (ﬁOTTIﬂ) model for debt securities. The impairment model 

for equity securities was not affected. Under the new guidance, 

OTTI losses must be recognized in earnings if an investor has the 

intent to sell the debt security, or if it is more likely than not that 

the investor will be required to sell the debt security before recovery 

of its amortized cost basis. However, even if an investor does not 

expect to sell a debt security, it must evaluate expected cash flows 

to be received and determine if a credit loss exists. In the event of a 

credit loss, only the amount of impairment associated with the 

credit loss is recognized in income. Amounts relating to factors 

other than credit losses are recorded in OCI. The guidance also 

requires additional disclosures regarding the calculation of credit 

losses, as well as factors considered in reaching a conclusion that 

an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired. JPMorgan 

Chase early adopted the new guidance effective for the period 

ending March 31, 2009. The Firm did not record a transition ad-

justment for securities held at March 31, 2009, which were previ-

ously considered other-than-temporarily impaired, as the Firm 

intended to sell the securities for which it had previously recognized 

other-than-temporary impairments. 
AFS securities in unrealized loss positions are analyzed as part of 
the Firm™s ongoing assessment of OTTI. When the Firm intends to 

sell AFS securities, it recognizes an impairment loss equal to the full 

difference between the amortized cost basis and the fair value of 

those securities.  
When the Firm does not intend to sell AFS equity or debt securities 
in an unrealized loss position, potential OTTI is considered using a 

variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which 

the market value has been less than cost; adverse conditions spe-

cifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condi-

tion of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment 

structure of the security; changes to the rating of the security by a 

rating agency; the volatility of the fair value changes; and changes 

in fair value of the security after the balance sheet date. For debt 

securities, the Firm estimates cash flows over the remaining lives of 

the underlying collateral to assess whether credit losses exist and, 

where applicable for purchased or retained beneficial interests in 

securitized assets, to determine if any adverse changes in cash 

flows have occurred. The Firm™s cash flow estimates take into 

account expectations of relevant market and economic data as of 

the end of the reporting period Œ including, for example, for securi-

ties issued in a securitization, underlying loan-level data, and 

structural features of the securitization, such as subordination, 

excess spread, overcollateralization or other forms of credit en-

hancement. The Firm compares the losses projected for the underly-

ing collateral (ﬁpool lossesﬂ) against the level of credit 

enhancement in the securitization structure to determine whether 

these features are sufficient to absorb the pool losses, or whether a 

credit loss on the AFS debt security exists. The Firm also performs 

other analyses to support its cash flow projections, such as first-loss 

analyses or stress scenarios. For debt securities, the Firm considers 

a decline in fair value to be other-than-temporary when the Firm 
does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the 

security. The Firm also considers an OTTI to have occurred when 

there is an adverse change in cash flows to beneficial interests in 

securitizations that are rated below ﬁAAﬂ at acquisition, or that 

can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in such a way that 

the Firm would not recover substantially all of its recorded invest-

ment. For equity securities, the Firm considers the above factors, as 

well as the Firm™s intent and ability to retain its investment for a 

period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in 

market value, and whether evidence exists to support a realizable 

value equal to or greater than the carrying value. The Firm consid-

ers a decline in fair value of AFS equity securities to be other-than-

temporary if it is probable that the Firm will not recover its amor-

tized cost basis.  
The following table presents credit losses that are included in the 
securities gains and losses table above.  
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2009
  Debt securities the Firm does not intend to sell that 
have credit losses 
  
Total losses
(a)
  $ (946) 
Losses recorded in/(reclassified from) other comprehensive
   income 
368 
Credit losses recognized in income
(b)(c)
  $ (578) 
(a)
 For initial other-than-temporary impairments, represents the excess of the 
amortized cost over the fair value of AFS debt securities. For subsequent im-
pairments of the same security, represents additional declines in fair value 

subsequent to the previously recorded other-than-temporary impairment(s), 
if applicable. 
(b)
 Represents the credit loss component of certain prime and subprime mort-
gage-backed securities and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities that 
the Firm does not intend to sell. Subsequent credit losses may be recorded 
on securities without a corresponding further decline in fair value if there has 

been a decline in expected cash flows. 
(c)
 Excluded from this table are OTTI losses of $7 million that were recognized 
in income in 2009, related to subprime mortgage-backed debt securities the 
Firm intended to sell. These securities were sold in 2009, resulting in the 

recognition of a recovery of $1 million. 
Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired 
debt securities 

The following table presents a rollforward of the credit loss compo-

nent of OTTI losses that were recognized in income in 2009, related 

to debt securities that the Firm does not intend to sell. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
 2009
Balance, beginning of period 
 $   Š
Additions: 
   Newly credit-impaired securities 
  578
   Increase in losses on previously credit-impaired  
  securities reclassified from other comprehensive income 
  Š
Balance, end of period 
 $ 578
During 2009, the Firm continued to increase the size of its AFS 
securities portfolio. Unrealized losses have decreased since Decem-

ber 31, 2008, due primarily to overall market spread and market 

liquidity improvements, which resulted in increased pricing across 

asset classes. As of December 31, 2009, the Firm does not intend 

to sell the securities with a loss position in AOCI, and it is not likely 

that the Firm will be required to sell these securities before recovery 

of their amortized cost basis. Except for the securities reported in 

the table above for which credit losses have been recognized in 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 198
 income, the Firm believes that the securities with an unrealized loss 
in AOCI are not other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 

31, 2009. Following is a description of the Firm™s primary security investments 
and the key assumptions used in its estimate of the present value of 

the cash flows most likely to be collected from these investments. 
Mortgage-backed securities Œ U.S. government agencies 
As of December 31, 2009, gross unrealized losses on mortgage-

backed securities related to U.S. agencies were $608 million, of 

which $5 million related to securities that have been in an unreal-

ized loss position for longer than 12 months. These mortgage-

backed securities do not have any credit losses, given the explicit 

and implicit guarantees provided by the U.S. federal government.  
Mortgage-backed securities Œ Prime and Alt-A nonagency  
As of December 31, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to prime 

and Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities issued by private 

issuers were $807 million, of which $780 million related to securities 

that have been in an unrealized loss position for longer than 12 

months. Overall losses have decreased since December 31, 2008, due 

to increased market stabilization, resulting from increased demand for 

higher-yielding asset classes and new U.S. government programs. 

Approximately one-third of these positions (by amortized cost) are 

currently rated ﬁAAA.ﬂ The remaining two-thirds have experienced 

downgrades since purchase, and approximately half of the positions 

are currently rated below investment-grade. In analyzing prime and 

Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities for potential credit 

losses, the Firm utilizes a methodology that focuses on loan-level 

detail to estimate future cash flows, which are then applied to the 

various tranches of issued securities based on their respective contrac-

tual provisions of the securitization trust. The loan-level analysis 

considers prepayment, home price, default rate and loss severity 

assumptions. Given this level of granularity, the underlying assump-

tions vary significantly taking into consideration such factors as the 

financial condition of the borrower, loan to value ratio, loan type and 

geographical location of the underlying property. The weighted 

average underlying default rate on the positions was 19% and the 

related weighted average loss severity was 51%. Based on this 

analysis, the Firm has recognized $138 million of OTTI losses in 

earnings in 2009, related to securities that have experienced in-

creased delinquency rates associated to specific collateral types and 

origination dates. The unrealized loss of $807 million on the remain-

ing securities is considered temporary, based on management's 

assessment that the credit enhancement levels for those securities 

remain sufficient to support the Firm's investment. 
Mortgage-backed securities Œ Commercial  
As of December 31, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to com-

mercial mortgage-backed securities were $63 million, of which $29 

million related to securities that have been in an unrealized loss 

position for longer than 12 months. The Firm™s commercial mort-

gage-backed securities are rated ﬁAAA,ﬂ ﬁAA,ﬂ ﬁAﬂ and ﬁBBBﬂ 

and possess, on average, 29% subordination (a form of credit 

enhancement for the benefit of senior securities, expressed here as 

the percentage of pool losses that can occur before a senior asset-

backed security will incur its first dollar of principal loss). In consid-

ering whether potential credit-related losses exist, the Firm con-

ducted a scenario analysis, using high levels of delinquencies and 

losses over the near term, followed by lower levels over the longer 

term. Specific assumptions included: (i) default of all loans more 

than 60 days delinquent; (ii) additional default rates for the remain-

ing portfolio forecasted to be up to 8% in the near term and 2% in 

the longer term; and (iii) loss severity assumptions ranging from 

45% in the near term to 40% in later years.  
Asset-backed securities Œ Credit card receivables  
As of December 31, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to credit 

card receivables asset-backed securities were $26 million, which 

relate to securities that were in an unrealized loss position for 

longer than 12 months. One of the key metrics the Firm reviews for 

credit cardŒrelated asset-backed securities is each trust™s excess 

spread, which is the credit enhancement resulting from cash that 

remains each month after payments are made to investors for 

principal and interest and to servicers for servicing fees, and after 

credit losses are allocated. The average excess spread for the 

issuing trusts in which the Firm holds interests ranges from 3.8% to 

13.8% with a weighted average of 6.9%.  
Asset-backed securities Œ Collateralized debt and loan obligations  
As of December 31, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to collat-

eralized debt and loan obligations were $436 million, of which 

$435 million related to securities that were in an unrealized loss 

position for longer than 12 months. Overall losses have decreased 

since December 31, 2008, mainly as a result of, lower default 

forecasts and spread tightening across various asset classes.  

Substantially all of these securities are rated ﬁAAAﬂ and ﬁAAﬂ and 

have an average credit enhancement of 29%. Credit enhancement 

in CLOs is primarily in the form of overcollateralization, which is the 

excess of the par amount of collateral over the par amount of 

securities. The key assumptions considered in analyzing potential 

credit losses were underlying loan and debt security defaults and 

loss severity. Based on current default trends, the Firm assumed 

collateral default rates of 5% for 2009 and thereafter. Further, loss 

severities were assumed to be 50% for loans and 80% for debt 

securities. Losses on collateral were estimated to occur approxi-

mately 18 months after default.  
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 199
 Contractual maturities and yields 
The following table presents the amortized cost and estimated fair value at December 31, 2009, of JPMorgan Chase™s AFS and HTM securities 

by contractual maturity. 
 2009
  By remaining maturity 
December 31, (in millions)
 Due in one  
year or less 
Due after one 
year through 
five years  
Due after five 
years through 
 10 years
   Due after  
    10 years
(c)
                
Total
  Available-for-sale debt securities 
   
   Mortgage-backed securities
(b)
    
   Amortized cost
   $          1
  $ 321
   $   6,707
  $ 178,840
 $ 185,869
  Fair value 
  1   335  6,804   180,146 
187,286
  Average yield
(a)
  3.40%  5.17%  4.75%   4.54% 
4.54
 % 
U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(b)
  
     Amortized cost
   $      307
  $ 23,985
   $   5,527
  $         225
 $   30,044
  Fair value 
  307   24,044  5,423    223 
29,997
  Average yield
(a)
  0.34%  2.34%  3.34%   5.38% 
2.53
 % 
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities 
  Amortized cost
   $        14
  $ 249
   $      353
   $     5,654
 $     6,270
  Fair value 
  14   260  364    5,899 
6,537
  Average yield
(a)
  0.25%  4.80%  5.13%   4.75% 
4.75
 % 
Certificates of deposit  
      Amortized cost
   $   2,649
   Š
   Š
    Š
 $     2,649
  Fair value 
  2,650   Š
   Š
    Š
 2,650
  Average yield
(a)
  3.12%   Š
   Š
    Š
 3.12
 % 
Non-U.S. government debt securities  
     Amortized cost
   $ 10,726
  $ 12,830
   $      616
  $        148
 $   24,320
  Fair value 
  10,732   12,994  627    150 
24,503
  Average yield
(a)
  0.95%  2.13%  3.21%   1.71% 
1.64
 % 
Corporate debt securities 
      Amortized cost
   $   6,694
  $ 53,081
   $   1,253
  $ 198
    $   61,226
  Fair value 
  6,786   53,706  1,308    208 
62,008
  Average yield
(a)
  1.78%  2.15%  5.88%   6.15% 
2.19
 % 
Asset-backed securities 
      Amortized cost
  $ 13,826
  $ 8,365
   $ 10,386
  $ 11,580
 $   44,157
  Fair value 
  13,902   8,646  10,507    11,630 
44,685
  Average yield
(a)
  2.04%  1.70%  1.38%   1.43% 
1.66
 % 
Total available-for-sale debt securities   
    Amortized cost
   $ 34,217
  $ 98,831
   $ 24,842
  $ 196,645
 $ 354,535
  Fair value 
  34,392   99,985  25,033    198,256 
357,666
  Average yield
(a)
  1.72%  2.17%  3.05%   4.36% 
3.40
 % 
Available-for-sale equity securities  
     Amortized cost
   Š
   Š
   Š
  $ 2,518
 $     2,518
  Fair value 
  Š
   Š
   Š
    2,699 
2,699
  Average yield
(a)
   Š
   Š
   Š
   0.42% 
0.42
 % 
Total available-for-sale securities  
     Amortized cost
   $ 34,217
  $ 98,831
   $ 24,842
  $ 199,163
 $ 357,053
  Fair value 
  34,392   99,985  25,033    200,955 
360,365
  Average yield
(a)
  1.72%  2.17%  3.05%   4.31% 
3.38
 % 
    
   Total held-to-maturity securities  
     Amortized cost
   Š
  $ 3
   $        20
  $  2
 $          25
  Fair value 
  Š
   3  22    2 
27
  Average yield
(a)
  Š  6.96%  6.87%   6.49% 
6.85
 % 
(a) Average yield was based on amortized cost balances at the end of the period and did not give effect to changes in fair value reflected in accumulated other 
comprehensive income/(loss). Yields are derived by dividing interest/dividend income (including the effect of related derivatives on available-for-sale securities 
and the amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts) by total amortized cost. Taxable-equivalent yields are used where applicable. 
(b) U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises were the only issuers whose securities exceeded 10% of JPMorgan Chase™s total 
stockholders™ equity at December 31, 2009. 
(c) Includes securities with no stated maturity. Substantially all of the Firm™s mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are due in 10 
years or more, based on contractual maturity. The estimated duration, which reflects anticipated future prepayments based on a consensus of dealers in the 

market, is approximately five years for nonagency mortgage-backed securities and three years for collateralized mortgage obligations. 
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 200
 Note 12 Œ Securities financing activities 
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements, repurc
hase agree-
ments, securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned 
transactions, primarily to finance the Firm™s inventory positions, 

acquire securities to cover short positions, accommodate custom-

ers™ financing needs, and settle other securities obligations.  
Resale agreements and repurchase agreements are generally 
treated as collateralized financing transactions carried on the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at the amounts at which the securities 

will be subsequently sold or repurchased, plus accrued interest. On 

January 1, 2007, pursuant to the adoption of the fair value option, 

the Firm elected fair value measurement for certain resale and 

repurchase agreements. In 2008, the Firm elected fair value meas-

urement for certain newly transacted securities borrowed and 

securities lending agreements. For a further discussion of the fair 

value option, see Notes 4 and 20 on pages 173Œ175 and 227, 

respectively, of this Annual Report. The securities financing agree-

ments for which the fair value option was elected are reported 

within securities purchased under resale agreements; securities 

loaned or sold under repurchase agreements; securities borrowed; 

and other borrowed funds on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

Generally, for agreements carried at fair value, current-period 

interest accruals are recorded within interest income and interest 

expense, with changes in fair value reported in principal transac-

tions revenue. However, for financial instruments containing em-

bedded derivatives that would be separately accounted for in 

accordance with FASB guidance for hybrid instruments, all changes 

in fair value, including any interest elements, are reported in princi-

pal transactions revenue. Where appropriate, resale and repurchase 

agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net 

basis. JPMorgan Chase takes possession of securities purchased 

under resale agreements. On a daily basis, JPMorgan Chase moni-

tors the market value of the underlying collateral, primarily U.S. and 

non-U.S. government and agency securities, that it has received 

from its counterparties, and requests additional collateral when 

necessary. 
Transactions similar to financing activities that do not meet the 
definition of a repurchase agreement are accounted for as ﬁbuysﬂ 

and ﬁsellsﬂ rather than financing transactions. These transactions 

are accounted for as a purchase/(sale) of the underlying securities 

with a forward obligation to sell/(purchase) the securities. The 

forward purchase/(sale) obligation is a derivative that is recorded 

on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value, with changes in 

fair value recorded in principal transactions revenue.  
Securities borrowed and securities lent are recorded at the amount 
of cash collateral advanced or received. Securities borrowed consist 

primarily of government and equity securities. JPMorgan Chase 

monitors the market value of the securities borrowed and lent on a 

daily basis and calls for additional collateral when appropriate. Fees 

received or paid in connection with securities borrowed and lent are 

recorded in interest income or interest expense. 
The following table details the components of collateralized financings. 
December 31, (in millions) 
2009
2008
 Securities purchased under resale agreements
(a)
 $  195,328
$ 200,265
 Securities borrowed
(b)
 119,630
124,000
 Securities sold under repurchase agreements
(c)
 $  245,692
$ 174,456
 Securities loaned 
7,835
6,077
 (a) Includes resale agreements of $20.5 billion and $20.8 billion accounted for at fair 
value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(b) Includes securities borrowed of $7.0 billion and $3.4 billion accounted for at fair 
value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(c) Includes repurchase agreements of $3.4 billion and $3.0 billion accounted for at 
fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments it owns to 

collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. 

Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by the secured 

party are identified as financial instruments owned (pledged to 

various parties) on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
At December 31, 2009, the Firm received securities as collateral 
that could be repledged, delivered or otherwise used with a fair 

value of approximately $614.4 billion. This collateral was generally 

obtained under resale agreements, securities borrowing agree-

ments and customer margin loans. Of these securities, approxi-

mately $392.9 billion were repledged, delivered or otherwise used, 

generally as collateral under repurchase agreements, securities 

lending agreements or to cover short sales. 
Note 13 Œ Loans 
The accounting for a loan may differ based on whethe
r it is origi-
nated or purchased and whether the loan is used in an investing or 
trading strategy. For purchased loans held-for-investment, the 

accounting also differs depending on whether a loan is credit-

impaired at the date of acquisition. Purchased loans with evidence 

of credit deterioration since the origination date and for which it is 

probable, at acquisition, that all contractually required payments 

receivable will not be collected are considered to be credit-

impaired. The measurement framework for loans in the Consoli-

dated Financial Statements is one of the following: 
· At the principal amount outstanding, net of the allowance for 
loan losses, unearned income, unamortized discounts and premi-

ums, and any net deferred loan fees or costs, for loans held for 

investment (other than purchased credit-impaired loans); 
· At the lower of cost or fair value, with valuation changes re-

corded in noninterest revenue, for loans that are classified as 

held-for-sale;  
· At fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in noninterest 

revenue, for loans classified as trading assets or risk managed on 

a fair value basis; or 
· Purchased credit-impaired loans held-for-investment are initially 

measured at fair value, which includes estimated future credit 

losses. Accordingly, an allowance for loan losses related to these 

loans is not recorded at the acquisition date. 
See Note 4 on pages 173Œ175 of this Annual Report for further 

information on the Firm™s elections of fair value accounting under 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 201
 the fair value option. See Note 3 and Note 4 on pages 156Œ173 
and 173Œ175 of this Annual Report for further information on 

loans carried at fair value and classified as trading assets. 
For loans held-for-investment, other than purchased credit-impaired 
loans, interest income is recognized using the interest method or on a 

basis approximating a level rate of return over the term of the loan.  
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest has 
been suspended. Loans (other than credit card loans, certain con-

sumer loans insured by U.S. government agencies and purchased 

credit-impaired loans, which are discussed below) are placed on 

nonaccrual status and considered nonperforming when full pay-

ment of principal and interest is in doubt, or when principal or 

interest is 90 days or more past due and collateral, if any, is insuffi-

cient to cover principal and interest. Interest accrued but not col-

lected at the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status is reversed 

against interest income. In addition, the amortization of net de-

ferred loan fees is suspended. Interest income on nonaccrual loans 

may be recognized only to the extent it is received in cash. How-

ever, where there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of 

loan principal, cash receipts are applied to reduce the carrying 

value of such loans (i.e., the cost recovery method). Interest and 

fees related to credit card loans continue to accrue until the loan is 

charged off or paid in full. 
Loans may be returned to accrual status when repayment is rea-
sonably assured and there has been demonstrated performance 

under the terms of the loan or, if applicable, the terms of the  

restructured loans.   
Wholesale and business banking loans (which are risk-rated) are 
charged off to the allowance for loan losses when it is highly cer-

tain that a loss has been realized. This determination includes many 

factors, including the prioritization of the Firm™s claim in bank-

ruptcy, expectations of the workout/restructuring of the loan and 

valuation of the borrower's equity. 
Consumer loans, other than business banking and purchased 
credit-impaired loans, are generally charged off to the allowance 

for loan losses upon reaching specified stages of delinquency, in 

accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination 

Council policy. For example, credit card loans are charged off by the 

end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due 

or within 60 days from receiving notification about a specified 

event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), which ever is earlier. 

Residential mortgage products are generally charged off to net 

realizable value no later than 180 days past due. Other consumer 

products, if collateralized, are generally charged off to net realiz-

able value at 120 days past due.  
In addition, any impaired loan that is determined to be collateral-
dependent is charged-off to an amount equal to the fair value of 

the collateral less costs to sell. Loans are identified as collateral-

dependent when management believes that collateral is the sole 

source of repayment.  
A collateralized loan is reclassified to assets acquired in loan satis-
factions, within other assets, at the lower of the recorded invest-
ment in the loan or the fair value of the collateral less estimated 

costs to sell, only when JPMorgan Chase has taken physical posses-

sion of the collateral, regardless of whether formal foreclosure 

proceedings have taken place.  
Loans within the held-for-investment portfolio that management 
decides to sell are transferred to the held-for-sale portfolio. Trans-

fers to held-for-sale are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value 

on the date of transfer. Credit-related losses are charged off to the 

allowance for loan losses and losses due to changes in interest 

rates or exchange rates are recognized in noninterest revenue. 
Loans within the held-for-sale portfolio that management decides 
to retain are transferred to the held-for-investment portfolio at the 

lower of cost or fair value. These loans are subsequently assessed 

for impairment based on the Firm™s allowance methodology. For a 

further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing the 

Firm™s allowance for loan losses, see Note 14 on pages 204Œ206 of 

this Annual Report. 
The composition of the Firm™s aggregate loan portfolio at each of the dates 
indicated was as follows. 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2009
  2008
U.S. wholesale loans: 
 Commercial and industrial 
 $ 49,103
  $ 70,208
Real estate 
54,968
 61,888
Financial institutions  
13,372
 20,615
Government agencies 
5,634
 5,918
Other 
23,383
 23,157
Loans held-for-sale and at fair value 
2,625
 4,990
   Total U.S. wholesale loans 
149,085
 186,776
Non-U.S. wholesale loans:
  Commercial and industrial 
19,138
 27,977
Real estate 
2,227
 2,623
Financial institutions 
11,755
 16,381
Government agencies 
1,707
 603
Other 
18,790
 18,719
Loans held-for-sale and at fair value 
1,473
 8,965
   Total non-U.S. wholesale loans 
55,090
 75,268
Total wholesale loans: 
(a)(b)
  Commercial and industrial 
68,241
 98,185
Real estate
(c)
 57,195
 64,511
Financial institutions 
25,127
 36,996
Government agencies 
7,341
 6,521
Other 
42,173
 41,876
Loans held-for-sale and at fair value
(d)
 4,098
 13,955
   Total wholesale loans 
204,175
 262,044
Consumer loans:
(e)
  Home equity Œ senior lien
(f)
 27,376
 29,793
Home equity Œ junior lien
(g)
 74,049
 84,542
Prime mortgage 
66,892
 72,266
Subprime mortgage 
12,526
 15,330
Option ARMs 
8,536
 9,018
Auto loans 
46,031
 42,603
Credit card
(h)(i)
 78,786
 104,746
Other  
31,700
 33,715
Loans held-for-sale
(j)
 2,142
 2,028
   
Total consumer loans Œ excluding 
purchased credit-impaired 
348,038
 394,041
Consumer loans Œ purchased credit-
impaired 
81,245
 88,813
   Total consumer loans 
429,283
 482,854
Total loans
(k)
  $ 633,458
  $  744,898

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 202
 (a) Includes Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and 
Asset Management. 
(b)  During the fourth quarter of 2009, certain industry classifications were modified to 
better reflect risk correlations and enhance the Firm™s management of industry risk. 
Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation. 
(c) Represents credit extended for real estate-related purposes to borrowers who are 
primarily in the real estate development or investment businesses, and for which the 
repayment is predominantly from the sale, lease, management, operations or refinanc-

ing of the property. 
(d) Includes loans for commercial and industrial, real estate, financial institutions and 
other of $3.1 billion, $44 million, $278 million and $715 million, respectively, at  

December 31, 2009, and $11.0 billion, $428 million, $1.5 billion and $995 million, 

respectively, at December 31, 2008. 
(e) Includes Retail Financial Services, Card Services and the Corporate/Private Equity 
segment. 
(f) Represents loans where JPMorgan Chase holds the first security interest on the 
property. 
(g) Represents loans where JPMorgan Chase holds a security interest that is subordinate 
in rank to other liens. 
(h) Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts. 

(i) Includes $1.0 billion of loans at December 31, 2009, held by the Washington 
Mutual Master Trust, which were consolidated onto the Firm™s balance sheet at fair 

value during the second quarter of 2009. See Note 15 on pages 206Œ213 of this 
Annual Report. 
(j) Includes loans for prime mortgage and other (largely student loans) of $450 million 
and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2009, respectively, and $206 million and $1.8 billion 
at December 31, 2008, respectively. 
(k) Loans (other than purchased credit-impaired loans and those for which the fair value 
option has been elected) are presented net of unearned income, unamortized dis-
counts and premiums, and net deferred loan costs of $1.4 billion and $2.0 billion at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Prior periods have been revised to con-

form to the current presentation. 
The following table reflects information about the Firm™s loan sales.
 Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
 2009
 2008  2007
Net gains/(losses) on sales of loans 
(including lower of cost or fair value
  adjustments)
(a)
  $ 439
$ (2,508) $ 99
 (a) Excludes sales related to loans accounted for at fair value. 
Impaired loans 
Impaired loans include the following: 
· Risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status 
and/or that have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring. 
· Consumer loans that have been modified in a troubled debt 
restructuring. 
Loans with insignificant delays or insignificant short falls in the 
amount of payments expected to be collected are not considered to 

be impaired.  
All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as 
described in Note 14 on pages 204Œ206 of this Annual Report. 

Both wholesale and consumer loans are deemed impaired upon 

being contractually modified in a troubled debt restructuring. 

Troubled debt restructurings typically result from the Firm™s loss 

mitigation activities and occur when JPMorgan Chase grants a 

concession to a borrower who is experiencing financial difficulty in 

order to minimize the Firm™s economic loss and to avoid foreclosure 

or repossession of collateral. Once restructured in a troubled debt 

restructuring, a loan is generally considered impaired until its 

maturity, regardless of whether the borrower performs under the 

modified terms. Although such a loan may be returned to accrual 

status if the criteria set forth in the Firm™s accounting policy are 

met, the loan would continue to be evaluated for an asset-specific 
allowance for loan losses and the Firm would continue to report the 

loan in the impaired loan table below.  
The tables below set forth information about the Firm™s impaired 
loans, excluding both purchased credit-impaired loans and modified 

credit card loans, which are separately discussed below.   
December 31, (in millions) 
2009
2008
Impaired loans with an allowance: 
Wholesale 
$   6,216
$ 2,026
Consumer
(a)
 3,978
2,252
Total impaired loans with an allowance 
10,194
4,278
Impaired loans without an allowance:
(b)
 Wholesale 
760
62
Consumer
(a)
 ŠŠTotal impaired loans without an allowance 
760
62
Total impaired loans
 $ 10,954
$ 4,340
Allowance for impaired loans: 
Wholesale 
$   2,046
$    712
Consumer
(a)
 996
379
Total allowance for impaired loans
(c)
  $   3,042
$ 1,091
 Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2009
20082007
Average balance of impaired loans : 
Wholesale 
 $  4,719
$    896$   316
Consumer
(a)
 3,518
1,211317
Total average impaired loans 
$  8,237
$ 2,107$   633
Interest income recognized on impaired loans: 
Wholesale 
$       15
$      Š $     Š
Consumer
(a)
 138
57Š
Total interest income recognized on 
impaired loans 
 $     153
 $      57 $     Š
(a) Excludes credit card loans. 
(b) When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds 
the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance. 
(c) The allowance for impaired loans is included in JPMorgan Chase™s allowance for loan 
losses.  
As of December 31, 2009, wholesale loans restructured in troubled 
debt restructurings were approximately $1.1 billion.  
During 2009, the Firm reviewed its residential real estate portfolio 
to identify homeowners most in need of assistance, opened new 

regional counseling centers, hired additional loan counselors, 

introduced new financing alternatives, proactively reached out to 

borrowers to offer prequalified modifications, and commenced a 

new process to independently review each loan before moving it 

into the foreclosure process. In addition, during the first quarter of 

2009, the U.S. Treasury introduced the Making Home Affordable 

(ﬁMHAﬂ) programs, which are designed to assist eligible home-

owners in a number of ways, one of which is by modifying the 

terms of their mortgages. The Firm is participating in the MHA 

programs while continuing to expand its other loss mitigation 

efforts for financially distressed borrowers who do not qualify for 

the MHA programs. The MHA programs and the Firm™s other loss-

mitigation programs for financially troubled borrowers generally 

represent various concessions, such as term extensions, rate reduc-

tions and deferral of principal payments, that would have otherwise 

been required under the terms of the original agreement. When the 

Firm modifies home equity lines of credit in troubled debt restruc-

turings, future lending commitments related to the modified loans 

are canceled as part of the terms of the modification. Under all of 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 203
 these programs, borrowers must make at least three payments 
under the revised contractual terms during a trial period and be 

successfully re-underwritten with income verification before their 

loan can be permanently modified. Upon contractual modification, 

retained residential real estate loans, other than purchased credit-

impaired loans, are accounted for as troubled debt restructurings.  
Consumer loans with balances of approximately $3.1 billion and 
$1.8 billion have been permanently modified and accounted for as 

troubled debt restructurings as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively. Of these loans, $966 million and $853 million were 

classified as nonperforming at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively. 
JPMorgan Chase has also modified the terms of credit card loan 
agreements with borrowers who have experienced financial difficulty. 

Such modifications may include reducing the interest rate on the card 

and/or placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 

60 months; in all cases, the Firm cancels the customer™s available line 

of credit on the credit card. If the cardholder does not comply with 

the modified payment terms, then the credit card loan agreement will 

revert back to its original payment terms, with the amount of any 

loan outstanding reflected in the appropriate delinquency ﬁbucket.ﬂ 

The loan amount may then be charged-off in accordance with the 

Firm™s standard charge-off policy. Under these modification programs, 

$5.1 billion and $2.4 billion of on-balance sheet credit card loans 

outstandings have been modified at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively. In accordance with the Firm™s methodology for determin-

ing its consumer allowance for loan losses, the Firm had already 

recognized a provision for loan losses on these credit card loans; 

accordingly the modifications to these credit card loans had no incre-

mental impact on the Firm™s allowance for loan losses. 
Purchased credit-impaired loans 
In connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan 

Chase acquired certain loans that it deemed to be credit-impaired. 

Wholesale loans with a carrying amount of $135 million at Decem-

ber 31, 2009, down from $224 million at December 31, 2008, 

were determined to be credit-impaired at the date of acquisition. 

These wholesale loans are being accounted for individually (not on 

a pooled basis) and are reported as nonperforming loans since cash 

flows for each individual loan are not reasonably estimable. Such 

loans are excluded from the remainder of the following discussion, 

which relates solely to purchased credit-impaired consumer loans.  
Purchased credit-impaired consumer loans were determined to be 
credit-impaired based on specific risk characteristics of the loan, 

including product type, loan-to-value ratios, FICO scores, and past 

due status. Purchasers are permitted to aggregate credit-impaired 

loans acquired in the same fiscal quarter into one or more pools, 

provided that the loans have common risk characteristics. A pool is 

then accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest 

rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. With respect to the 

Washington Mutual transaction, all of the consumer loans were 

aggregated into pools of loans with common risk characteristics. 
The table below sets forth information about these purchased 

credit-impaired consumer loans at the acquisition date. 
(in millions) 
September 25, 2008
(d)
 Contractually required payments receivable 
    (including interest) 
 $ 188,958 
   Less: Nonaccretable difference 
  (59,396) 
   Cash flows expected to be collected
(a)(b)
   129,562 
   Less: Accretable yield
(b)(c)
   (39,454) 
   Fair value of loans acquired 
 $   90,108 
(a) Represents undiscounted principal and interest cash flows expected at acquisition. 
(b) During the first quarter of 2009, the Firm continued to refine its model to estimate 
future cash flows for its purchased credit-impaired consumer loans, which resulted 

in an adjustment of the initial estimate of cash flows expected to be collected. 

These refinements, which primarily affected the amount of the undiscounted inter-

est cash flows expected to be received over the life of the loans, resulted in a $6.8 
billion increase in the Firm's initial estimates of cash flows expected to be collected 
and the accretable yield. 
(c) This amount is recognized into interest income over the estimated lives of the 
underlying pools of loans. 
(d) Date of the Washington Mutual transaction.  
The Firm determined the fair value of the purchased credit-impaired 
consumer loans at the acquisition date by discounting the cash 

flows expected to be collected at a market observable discount 

rate, when available, adjusted for factors that a market participant 

would consider in determining fair value. In determining the cash 

flows expected to be collected, management incorporated assump-

tions regarding default rates, loss severities and the amounts and 

timing of prepayments. Contractually required payments receivable 

represent the total undiscounted amount of all uncollected contrac-

tual principal and interest payments, both past due and due in the 

future, adjusted for the effect of estimated prepayments.
  The accretable yield represents the excess of cash f
lows expected to 
be collected over the carrying value of the purchased credit-impaired 
loans. This amount is not reported on the Firm™s Consolidated Bal-

ance Sheets but is accreted into interest income at a level rate of 

return over the expected lives of the underlying pools of loans. For 

variable rate loans, expected future cash flows were initially based on 

the rate in effect at acquisition; expected future cash flows are recal-

culated as rates change over the lives of the loans. 
The table below sets forth the accretable yield activity for these 
loans for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
Accretable Yield Activity
    (in millions) 
          2009 
               2008
  Balance, January 1 
 $ 32,619 
 $        Š 
Washington Mutual acquisition
(a)
  Š 
  39,454 
Accretion into interest income 
 (4,363) 
  (1,292) 
Changes in interest rates on variable 
   rate loans 
 (4,849) 
  (5,543) 
Other changes in expected cash flows
(b)
  2,137 
  Š 
Balance, December 31, 
 $ 25,544 
 $ 32,619 
Accretable yield percentage
    5.14%
 5.81%
 (a) During the first quarter of 2009, the Firm continued to refine its model to estimate 
future cash flows for its purchased credit-impaired consumer loans, which resulted 
in an adjustment of the initial estimate of cash flows expected to be collected. 

These refinements, which primarily affected the amount of undiscounted interest 

cash flows expected to be received over the life of the loans, resulted in a $6.8 

billion increase in the Firm™s initial estimate of cash flows expected to be collected 

and the accretable yield. However, on a discounted basis, these refinements did not 
have a material impact on the fair value of the purchased credit-impaired loans as 
of the September 25, 2008, acquisition date; nor did they have a material impact 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 204
 on the amount of interest income recognized in the Firm™s Consolidated Statements 
of Income since that date. 
(b) Other changes in expected cash flows include the net impact of changes in esti-
mated prepayments and reclassifications to the nonaccretable difference. 
On a quarterly basis, the Firm updates the amount of loan principal 
and interest cash flows expected to be collected, incorporating 

assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the amounts 

and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of 

current market conditions. Probable decreases in expected loan 

principal cash flows trigger the recognition of impairment, which is 

then measured as the present value of the expected principal loss 

plus any related foregone interest cash flows discounted at the 

pool™s effective interest rate. Impairments that occur after the 

acquisition date are recognized through the provision and allow-

ance for loan losses. Probable and significant increases in expected 

principal cash flows would first reverse any previously recorded 

allowance for loan losses; any remaining increases are recognized 

prospectively as interest income. The impacts of (i) prepayments, (ii) 

changes in variable interest rates, and (iii) any other changes in the 

timing of expected cash flows are recognized prospectively as 

adjustments to interest income. Disposals of loans, which may 

include sales of loans, receipt of payments in full by the borrower, 

or foreclosure, result in removal of the loan from the purchased 

credit-impaired portfolio.  
If the timing and/or amounts of expected cash flows on these 
purchased credit-impaired loans were determined not to be rea-

sonably estimable, no interest would be accreted and the loans 

would be reported as nonperforming loans; however, since the 

timing and amounts of expected cash flows for these purchased 

credit-impaired loans are reasonably estimable, interest is being 

accreted and the loans are being reported as performing loans. 
Charge-offs are not recorded on purchased credit-impaired loans 
until actual losses exceed the estimated losses that were recorded 

as purchase accounting adjustments at acquisition date. To date, 

no charge-offs have been recorded for these loans. 
Purchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the Washington Mu-
tual transaction are reported in loans on the Firm™s Consolidated 

Balance Sheets. In 2009, an allowance for loan losses of $1.6 

billion was recorded for the prime mortgage and option ARM pools 

of loans. The net aggregate carrying amount of the pools that have 

an allowance for loan losses was $47.2 billion at December 31, 

2009. This allowance for loan losses is reported as a reduction of 

the carrying amount of the loans in the table below.  
The table below provides additional information about these pur-
chased credit-impaired consumer loans. 
December 31, (in millions) 
 2009 
 2008
Outstanding balance
(a)
 $ 103,369 
$ 118,180
Carrying amount 
   79,664 
    88,813
(a) Represents the sum of contractual principal, interest and fees earned at the 
reporting date.  
Purchased credit-impaired loans are also being modified under the 

MHA programs and the Firm™s other loss mitigation programs. For 

these loans, the impact of the modification is incorporated into the 
Firm™s quarterly assessment of whether a probable and/or signifi-

cant change in estimated future cash flows has occurred, and the 

loans continue to be accounted for as and reported as purchased 

credit-impaired loans. 
Foreclosed property 
The Firm acquires property from borrowers through loan restructur-

ings, workouts, and foreclosures, which is recorded in other assets 

on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Property acquired may include 

real property (e.g., land, buildings, and fixtures) and commercial 

and personal property (e.g., aircraft, railcars, and ships). Acquired 

property is valued at fair value less costs to sell at acquisition. Each 

quarter the fair value of the acquired property is reviewed and 

adjusted, if necessary. Any adjustments to fair value in the first 90 

days are charged to the allowance for loan losses and thereafter 

adjustments are charged/credited to noninterest revenueŒother. 

Operating expense, such as real estate taxes and maintenance, are 

charged to other expense. 
Note 14 Œ Allowance for credit losses 
The allowance for loan losses includes an asset-spec
ific component, 
a formula-based component and a component related to purchased 
credit-impaired loans. 
The asset-specific component relates to loans considered to be 
impaired, which includes any loans that have been modified in a 

troubled debt restructuring as well as risk-rated loans that have 

been placed on nonaccrual status. An asset-specific allowance for 

impaired loans is established when the loan™s discounted cash 

flows (or, when available, the loan™s observable market price) is 

lower than the recorded investment in the loan. To compute the 

asset-specific component of the allowance, larger loans are 

evaluated individually, while smaller loans are evaluated as pools 

using historical loss experience for the respective class of assets. 

Risk-rated loans (primarily wholesale loans) are pooled by risk 

rating, while scored loans (i.e., consumer loans) are pooled by 

product type. 
The Firm generally measures the asset-specific allowance as the 
difference between the recorded investment in the loan and the 

present value of the cash flows expected to be collected, dis-

counted at the loan™s original effective interest rate. Subsequent 

changes in measured impairment due to the impact of discounting 

are reported as an adjustment to the provision for loan losses, not 

as an adjustment to interest income. An asset-specific allowance 

for an impaired loan with an observable market price is measured 

as the difference between the recorded investment in the loan and 

the loan™s fair value.  
Certain impaired loans that are determined to be collateral-
dependent are charged-off to the fair value of the collateral less 

costs to sell. When collateral-dependent commercial real-estate 

loans are determined to be impaired, updated appraisals are typi-

cally obtained and updated every six to twelve months. The Firm 

also considers both borrower- and market-specific factors, which 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 205
 may result in obtaining appraisal updates at more frequent intervals 
or broker-price opinions in the interim. 
The formula-based component is based on a statistical calcula-
tion and covers performing risk-rated loans and consumer loans, 

except for loans restructured in troubled debt restructurings and 

purchased credit-impaired loans. See Note 13 on pages 203Œ204 

of this Annual Report for more information on purchased credit-

impaired loans. 
For risk-rated loans, the statistical calculation is the product of an 
estimated probability of default (ﬁPDﬂ) and an estimated loss given 

default (ﬁLGDﬂ). These factors are differentiated by risk rating and 

expected maturity. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan, 

among the factors considered are the obligor™s debt capacity and 

financial flexibility, the level of the obligor™s earnings, the amount 

and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, 

management strength, and the industry and geography in which 

the obligor operates. These factors are based on an evaluation of 

historical and current information, and involve subjective assess-

ment and interpretation. Emphasizing one factor over another or 

considering additional factors could impact the risk rating assigned 

by the Firm to that loan. PD estimates are based on observable 

external through-the-cycle data, using credit-rating agency default 

statistics. LGD estimates are based on a study of actual credit losses 

over more than one credit cycle.  
For scored loans, the statistical calculation is performed on pools of 
loans with similar risk characteristics (e.g., product type) and gen-

erally computed as the product of actual outstandings, an ex-

pected-loss factor and an estimated-loss coverage period. 

Expected-loss factors are statistically derived and consider historical 

factors such as loss frequency and severity. In developing loss 

frequency and severity assumptions, the Firm considers known and 

anticipated changes in the economic environment, including 

changes in housing prices, unemployment rates and other risk 

indicators. A nationally recognized home price index measure is 

used to develop loss severity estimates on defaulted residential real 

estate loans at the metropolitan statistical areas (ﬁMSAﬂ) level. 

These loss severity estimates are regularly validated by actual losses 

recognized on defaulted loans, market-specific real estate apprais-

als and property sales activity. Real estate appraisals are updated 

when the loan is charged-off, annually thereafter, and at the time 

of the final foreclosure sale. Forecasting methods are used to 

estimate expected-loss factors, including credit loss forecasting 

models and vintage-based loss forecasting.  
The economic impact of potential modifications of residential real 
estate loans is not included in the formula-based allowance be-

cause of the uncertainty regarding the level and results of such 
modifications. As discussed in Note 13 on pages 200Œ204 of this 

Annual Report, modified residential real estate loans are generally 

accounted for as troubled debt restructurings upon contractual 

modification and are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance at 

and subsequent to modification. Assumptions regarding the loans™ 

expected re-default rates are incorporated into the measurement of 

the asset-specific allowance.  
Management applies judgment within an established framework to 
adjust the results of applying the statistical calculation described 

above. For the risk-rated portfolios, any adjustments made to the 

statistical calculation are based on management™s quantitative and 

qualitative assessment of the quality of underwriting standards; 

relevant internal factors affecting the credit quality of the current 

portfolio; and external factors, such as current macroeconomic and 

political conditions that have occurred but are not yet reflected in 

the loss factors. Factors related to unemployment, housing prices, 

and both concentrated and deteriorating industries are also incor-

porated into the calculation, where relevant. For the scored loan 

portfolios, adjustments to the statistical calculation are accom-

plished in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for each 

major product segment. The determination of the appropriate 

adjustment is based on management™s view of uncertainties that 

relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions, the qual-

ity of underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and 

external factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio. 
Management establishes an asset-specific allowance for lending-
related commitments that are considered impaired and computes a 

formula-based allowance for performing wholesale lending-related 

commitments. These are computed using a methodology similar to 

that used for the wholesale loan portfolio, modified for expected 

maturities and probabilities of drawdown. 
Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and 
requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that 

are inherently uncertain. Subsequent evaluations of the loan portfo-

lio, in light of the factors then prevailing, may result in significant 

changes in the allowances for loan losses and lending-related 

commitments in future periods. 
At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the 
Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of 

the Firm and discussed with the Risk Policy and Audit Committees 

of the Board of Directors of the Firm. As of December 31, 2009, 

JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit losses to be 

appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the 

portfolio, including those not yet identifiable). 
  
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 206
 The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for  
loan losses.
 Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
  2009 
  2008  2007
  Allowance for loan losses at  
January 1  
 $ 23,164
  $ 9,234 $ 7,279
  Cumulative effect of change in 
accounting principles
(a)
 Š   Š   (56
 ) 
Allowance for loan losses at  
January 1, adjusted 
23,164
   9,234  7,223
  Gross charge-offs 
24,018
   10,764  5,367
  Gross/(recoveries) 
(1,053)
   (929)  (829
 ) 
Net charge-offs
 22,965
   9,835  4,538
  Provision for loan losses: 
  
  Provision excluding accounting 
  conformity 
31,735
   19,660  6,538
   Provision for loan losses Œ  
 accounting conformity
(b)
 Š   1,577  Š
  Total provision for loan losses
 31,735
   21,237  6,538
  Addition resulting from Washing
ton 
Mutual transaction 
Š   2,535  Š
  Other
(c)
 (332)
   (7)  11
  Allowance for loan losses at 
December 31
  $ 31,602
  $ 23,164 $ 9,234
  Components: 
  
  Asset-specific
(d)(e)
  $ 3,042
  $ 1,091 $    188
  Formula-based 
26,979
   22,073  9,046
  Purchased credit-impaired 
1,581
   Š  Š
  Total allowance for loan losses
  $ 31,602
  $ 23,164 $ 9,234
  (a) Reflects the effect of the adoption of the fair value option at January 1, 2007. For 
a further discussion of the fair value option, see Note 4 on pages 173Œ175 of this 
Annual Report. 
(b) Related to the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 
(c) The 2009 amount predominantly represents a reclassification related to the 
issuance and retention of securities from the Chase Issuance Trust. See Note 15 

on pages 206Œ213 of this Annual Report. The 2008 amount represents foreign 

exchange translation. The 2007 amount includes assets acquired of $5 million and 
$5 million of foreign exchange translation. 
(d) Relates to risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans 
that have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring. 
(e) The asset-specific consumer allowance for loan losses includes troubled debt 
restructuring reserves of $754 million and $258 million at December 31, 
2009 and 2008, respectively and none at December 31, 2007. Prior period 
amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for 
lending-related commitments. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
 2009
 2008 2007
Allowance for lending-related commitments 
 at January 1 
 $ 659
    $ 850   $ 524
Provision for lending-related commitments    
Provision excluding accounting conformity 
 280
   (215)   326
 Provision for lending-related commitments
     accounting conformity
(a)
  Š 
  (43)   Š
Total provision for lending-related  
commitments 
 280
   (258)   326
Addition resulting from Washington Mutual 
transaction 
 Š 
  66   Š
Other 
 Š
   1   Š
Allowance for lending-related  
commitments at December 31
  $ 939
    $ 659   $ 850
Components: 
  
Asset-specific 
 $ 297
    $   29   $ 28
Formula-based 
 642
   630   822
Total allowance for lending-related 
commitments 
  $ 939
    $ 659   $ 850
(a) Related to the Washington Mutual transaction in 2008. 
Note 15 Œ Loan securitizations  
JPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety of lo
ans, including 
residential mortgage, credit card, automobile, student, and com-
mercial loans (primarily related to real estate). JPMorgan Chase-

sponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as part of the securitization 

process. These SPEs are structured to meet the definition of a QSPE 

(as discussed in Note 1 on page 150 of this Annual Report); accord-

ingly, the assets and liabilities of securitization-related QSPEs are 

not reflected on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets (except for 

retained interests, as described below). The primary purpose of 

these securitization vehicles is to meet investor needs and to gen-

erate liquidity for the Firm through the sale of loans to the QSPEs. 

These QSPEs are financed through the issuance of fixed- or float-

ing-rate asset-backed securities. See Note 16 on pages 221Œ222 

for further information on the new accounting guidance, effective 

January 1, 2010, which eliminates the concept of QSPEs and re-

vises the criteria for the consolidation of VIEs. 
The Firm records a loan securitization as a sale when the accounting 
criteria for a sale are met. Those criteria are: (1) the transferred assets 

are legally isolated from the Firm™s creditors; (2) the entity can pledge 

or exchange the financial assets, or if the entity is a QSPE, its inves-

tors can pledge or exchange their interests; and (3) the Firm does not 

maintain effective control to repurchase the transferred assets before 

their maturity, or have the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to 

return the transferred assets. 
For loan securitizations that meet the accounting sales criteria, the 
gains or losses recorded depend, in part, on the carrying amount of 

the loans sold except for servicing assets which are initially recorded 

at fair value. At the time of sale, any retained servicing asset is ini-

tially recognized at fair value. The remaining carrying amount of the 

loans sold is allocated between the loans sold and the other interests 

retained, based on their relative fair values on the date of sale. Gains 

on securitizations are reported in noninterest revenue.  
When quoted market prices are not available, the Firm estimates 
the fair value for these retained interests by calculating the present 

value of future expected cash flows using modeling techniques. 

Such models incorporate management™s best estimates of key 

variables, such as expected credit losses, prepayment speeds and 

the discount rates appropriate for the risks involved.  
The Firm may retain interests in the securitized loans in the form of 
undivided seller™s interest, senior or subordinated interest-only 

strips, debt and equity tranches, escrow accounts and servicing 

rights. The classification of retained interests is dependent upon 

several factors, including the type of interest, whether or not the 

retained interest is represented by a security certificate and when it 

was retained. Interests retained by IB are classified as trading 

assets. See credit card securitizations and mortgage securitizations 

sections of this Note for further information on the classification of 

their related retained interests. Retained interests classified as AFS 

that are rated below ﬁAAﬂ by an external rating agency are subject 

to impairment evaluations, as discussed in Note 11 on page 197 of 

this Annual Report.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 207
 The following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of assets held in JPMorgan Chase-sponsored securitization entities, for which 
sale accounting was achieved and to which the Firm has continuing involvement, at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Continuing involvement 

includes servicing the loans, holding senior or subordinated interests acquired at the time of securitization, recourse or guarantee arrange-

ments and derivative transactions. In certain instances, the Firm™s only continuing involvement is servicing the loans. In the table below, the 

amount of beneficial interests held by third parties and the total retained interests held by JPMorgan Chase will not equal the assets held in 

QSPEs because the beneficial interests held by third party are reflected at their current outstanding par amounts and a portion of the Firm™s 

retained interests (trading assets, AFS securities and other assets) are reflected at their fair value. 
 Principal amount outstanding 
 JPMorgan Chase interests in securitized assets
(e)(f)(g)(h)
 December 31, 2009
 (in billions)
 Total  
assets held  
by Firm- 
sponsored  
QSPEs 
Assets held  
in QSPEs  
with continuing 
involvement 
 Trading  
assets 
AFS 
securities 
Loans 
Other  
assets
(i)
  Total retained
  interests   
held by  
JPMorgan 
 Chase 
Securitization related: 
  
      
   Credit card 
 $ 109.6 $ 109.6
(d)
   $  0.1  $ 15.5     $ 16.7  $ 11.6  $ 43.9
   Residential mortgage: 
    
   
      Prime
(a)
  183.3  171.5 
  0.9  0.2   Š  Š  1.1
      Subprime 
 50.0  47.3   Š  Š   Š  Š        Š
      Option ARMs 
 42.0        42.0   Š   0.1   Š  Š  0.1
   Commercial and other
(b)
  155.3  24.8 
  1.6  0.8   Š  Š  2.4
   Student loans 
 1.0  1.0   Š  Š   Š  0.1  0.1
   Auto 
 0.2  0.2   Š  Š   Š  Š    Š
Total
(c)
  $ 541.4  $ 396.4 
  $  2.6  $ 16.6     $ 16.7  $ 11.7  $ 47.6
  Principal amount outstanding 
 JPMorgan Chase interests in securitized assets
(e)(f)(g)(h)
 December 31, 2008  
(in billions)
 Total  
assets held  
by Firm- 
sponsored  
QSPEs 
Assets held  
in QSPEs  
with continuing 
involvement 
 Trading  
assets 
AFS 
securities Loans 
Other  
assets
(i)
  Total retained
   interests 
   held by  
  JPMorgan
   Chase 
Securitization related: 
  
      
   Credit card 
$ 121.6 $ 121.6
(d)
   $ 0.5  $ 5.6  $ 33.3  $ 5.6   $ 45.0
   Residential mortgage: 
      
   
      Prime
(a)
  233.9  212.3 
  1.7  0.7  Š  Š   2.4
      Subprime 
 61.0  58.6   Š
  0.1  Š  Š   0.1
      Option ARMs 
 48.3  48.3   0.1  0.3  Š  Š   0.4
   Commercial and other
(b)
  174.1  45.7 
  2.0      0.5  Š  Š   2.5
   Student loans 
 1.1  1.1   Š
  Š  Š  0.1   0.1
   Auto 
 0.8  0.8   Š
  Š  Š  Š   Š
Total
(c)
  $ 640.8 $ 488.4 
  $ 4.3  $ 7.2  $ 33.3  $ 5.7   $ 50.5
(a) Includes Alt-A loans. 
(b) Consists of securities backed by commercial loans (predominantly real estate) and non-mortgage-related consumer receivables purchased from third parties. The Firm 
generally does not retain a residual interest in its sponsored commercial mortgage securitization transactions. Also, includes co-sponsored commercial securitizations 
and, therefore, includes nonŒJPMorgan ChaseŒoriginated commercial mortgage loans. 
(c) Includes securitized loans where the Firm owns less than a majority of the subordinated or residual interests in the securitizations.  
(d) Includes credit card loans, accrued interest and fees, and cash amounts on deposit.  

(e) Excludes retained servicing (for a discussion of MSRs, see Note 17 on pages 222Œ225 of this Annual Report). 
(f) Excludes senior and subordinated securities of $875 million and $974 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which the Firm purchased in connection 
with IB™s secondary market-making activities. 
(g) Includes investments acquired in the secondary market, predominantly for held-for-investment purposes, of $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 
2008, respectively. This is comprised of $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion of investments classified as available-for-sale, including $1.7 billion and $172 million in credit 

cards, zero and $693 million of residential mortgages, and $91 million and $495 million of commercial and other; and $152 million and $452 million of investments 
classified as trading, including $104 million and $112 million of credit cards, $47 million and $303 million of residential mortgages, and $1 million and $37 million of 
commercial and other, all at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(h) Excludes interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives primarily used to manage the interest rate and foreign exchange risks of the securitization entities. See Note 5 
on pages 175Œ183 of this Annual Report for further information on derivatives. 
(i) Certain of the Firm™s retained interests are reflected at their fair values. 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 208
 Securitization activity by major product type 
The following discussion describes the nature of the Firm™s securiti-

zation activities by major product type. 
Credit Card Securitizations 
The Card Services (ﬁCSﬂ) business securitizes originated and pur-

chased credit card loans, primarily through the Chase Issuance 

Trust (the ﬁTrustﬂ). In connection with the Washington Mutual 

transaction, the Firm acquired the seller™s interest in the Washing-

ton Mutual Master Trust (the ﬁWMM Trustﬂ) and also became its 

sponsor. The Firm™s primary continuing involvement in credit card 

securitizations includes servicing the receivables, retaining an 

undivided seller™s interest in the receivables, retaining certain senior 

and subordinated securities and the maintenance of escrow ac-

counts. CS maintains servicing responsibilities for all credit card 

securitizations that it sponsors. As servicer and transferor, the Firm 

receives contractual servicing fees based on the securitized loan 

balance plus excess servicing fees, which are recorded in credit card 

income as discussed in Note 6 on page 184 of this Annual Report.  
Actions taken in the second quarter of 2009 
 During the quarter ended June 30, 2009, the overall performance of 

the Firm™s credit card securitization trusts declined, primarily due to 

the increase in credit losses incurred on the underlying credit card 

receivables.  
Chase Issuance Trust: The Chase Issuance Trust (the Firm™s primary 
issuance trust), which holds prime quality credit card receivables, 

maintained positive excess spread, a key metric for evaluating the 

performance of a card trust, through the first six months of 2009. In 

spite of this positive excess spread, the Firm took certain actions, as 

permitted by the Trust agreements, in the second quarter of 2009 to 

enhance the performance of the Trust due to continuing market 

uncertainty concerning projected credit costs in the credit card indus-

try, and to mitigate any further deterioration in the performance of 

the Trust. On May 12, 2009, the Firm increased the required credit 

enhancement level for each tranche of outstanding notes issued by 

the Trust, by increasing the minimum required amount of subordi-

nated notes and the funding requirements for the Trust™s cash escrow 

accounts. On June 1, 2009, the Firm began designating as ﬁdiscount 

receivablesﬂ a percentage of new credit card receivables for inclusion 

in the Trust, thereby requiring collections of such discounted receiv-

ables to be applied as finance charge collections in the Trust, which 

increased the excess spread for the Trust. The Firm expects to discon-

tinue designating a percentage of new receivables as discount receiv-

ables on July 1, 2010. Also, during the second quarter of 2009, the 

Firm exchanged $3.5 billion of its undivided seller™s interest in the 

Trust for $3.5 billion par value of zero-coupon subordinated securities 

issued by the Trust and retained by the Firm. The issuance of the 

zero-coupon securities by the Trust also increased the excess spread 

for the Trust. These actions resulted in the addition of approximately 

$40 billion of risk-weighted assets for regulatory capital purposes, 

which decreased the Firm™s Tier 1 capital ratio by approximately 40 

basis points, but did not have a material impact on the Firm™s Con-

solidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.  
WMM Trust: At the time of the acquisition of the Washington Mutual 

banking operations, the assets of the WMM Trust were comprised of 

Washington Mutual subprime credit card receivables. The quality of 

the assets in the WMM Trust was much lower than the quality of the 

credit card receivables that JPMorgan Chase has historically securi-

tized in the public markets.  
In order to more closely conform the WMM Trust to the overall quality 
typical of a JPMorgan ChaseŒsponsored credit card securitization 

master trust, during the fourth quarter of 2008 the Firm randomly 

removed $6.2 billion of credit card loans held by the WMM Trust and 

replaced them with $5.8 billion of higher-quality receivables from the 

Firm™s portfolio.  
However, as a result of continued deterioration during 2009 in the 
credit quality of the remaining Washington MutualŒoriginated 

assets in the WMM Trust, the performance of the portfolio indi-

cated that an early amortization event was likely to occur unless 

additional actions were taken. On May 15, 2009, JPMorgan Chase, 

as seller and servicer, and the Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee, 

amended the pooling and servicing agreement to permit non-

random removals of credit card accounts. On May 19, 2009, the 

Firm removed all remaining credit card receivables originated by 

Washington Mutual. Following this removal, the WMM Trust col-

lateral was entirely composed of receivables originated by JPMor-

gan Chase. As a result of the actions taken by the Firm, the assets 

and liabilities of the WMM Trust were consolidated on the balance 

sheet of JPMorgan Chase; as a result, during the second quarter of 

2009, the Firm recorded additional assets with an initial fair value 

of $6.0 billion, liabilities with an initial fair value of $6.1 billion, 

and a pretax loss of approximately $64 million.  
Retained interests in nonconsolidated credit card securitizations 
 The following is a description of the Firm™s retained interests in 

credit card securitizations that were not consolidated at the dates 

presented. Accordingly, the Firm™s retained interests in the WMM 

Trust are included in the amounts reported at December 31, 2008, 

but no longer included at December 31, 2009, due to the second 

quarter actions noted above. For further information regarding the 

WMM Trust assets and liabilities, see Note 16 on pages 214Œ222 

of this Annual Report. 
The agreements with the credit card securitization trusts require the 
Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest in the trusts (which 

generally ranges from 4% to 12%). These undivided interests in the 

trusts represent the Firm™s undivided interests in the receivables 

transferred to the trust that have not been securitized; these undi-

vided interests are not represented by security certificates, are 

carried at historical cost, and are classified within loans. At Decem-

ber 31, 2009 and 2008, the Firm had $16.7 billion and $33.3 

billion, respectively, related to its undivided interests in the trusts. 

The Firm maintained an average undivided interest in principal 

receivables in the trusts of approximately 16% and 22% for the 

years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 209
 The Firm retained a subordinated interest in accrued interest and 
fees on the securitized receivables totaling $3.2 billion and $3.0 

billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which is 

reported at fair value in other assets.  
The Firm retained subordinated securities in its credit card securiti-
zation trusts with aggregate fair values of $6.6 billion and $2.3 

billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and senior 

securities with aggregate fair values of $7.2 billion and $3.5 billion 

at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of the securities 

retained, $13.8 billion and $5.4 billion were classified as AFS 

securities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The senior 

AFS securities were used by the Firm as collateral for a secured 

financing transaction. The retained subordinated interests that were 

acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and classified as 

trading assets had a carrying value of $389 million on December 

31, 2008. These retained subordinated interests were subsequently 

repaid or valued at zero before the Firm consolidated the WMM 

Trust in the second quarter of 2009, as discussed above.  
The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits 
for some credit card securitizations to cover deficiencies in cash flows 

owed to investors. The amounts available in such escrow accounts 

related to credit cards are recorded in other assets and amounted to 

$1.0 billion and $74 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively. The increase in the balance of these escrow accounts 

primarily relates to the Trust actions described above that the Firm 

took on May 12, 2009. JPMorgan Chase has also recorded $854 

million representing receivables that have been transferred to the 

Trust and designated as ﬁdiscount receivables.ﬂ All of these residual 

interests are reported at fair value in other assets. 
Mortgage Securitizations  
The Firm securitizes originated and purchased residential mort-

gages and originated commercial mortgages.  
RFS securitizes residential mortgage loans that it originates and 
purchases and it generally retains servicing for all of its originated 

and purchased residential mortgage loans and certain commercial 

mortgage loans. Additionally, RFS may retain servicing for certain 

mortgage loans purchased by IB. As servicer, the Firm receives 

servicing fees based on the securitized loan balance plus ancillary 

fees. In a limited number of securitizations, RFS may retain an 

interest in addition to servicing rights. The amount of interest 

retained related to these securitizations totaled $537 million and 

$939 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These 

retained interests are accounted for as trading or AFS securities (if 

represented by a security certificate) or other assets (if not repre-

sented by a security certificate). 
IB securitizes residential mortgage loans (including those that it 

purchased and certain mortgage loans originated by RFS), and 

commercial mortgage loans that it originated. Residential loans 

securitized by IB are often serviced by RFS. Upon securitization, IB 

may engage in underwriting and trading activities of the securities 

issued by the securitization trust. IB may retain unsold senior and/or 

subordinated interests (including residual interests) in both residen-

tial and commercial mortgage securitizations at the time of securiti-

zation. These retained interests are accounted for at fair value and 

classified as trading assets. The amount of residual interests re-

tained was $24 million and $155 million at December 31, 2009 

and 2008, respectively. Additionally, IB retained $2.3 billion and 

$2.8 billion of senior and subordinated interests as of December 

31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
In addition to the amounts reported in the securitization activity 
tables below, the Firm sold residential mortgage loans totaling 

$147.9 billion, $122.0 billion and $81.8 billion during the years 

ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 

majority of these loan sales were for securitization by Govern-

ment National Mortgage Association (ﬁGNMAﬂ), Federal Na-

tional Mortgage Association (ﬁFannie Maeﬂ) and Federal Home 

Loan Mortgage Corporation (ﬁFreddie Macﬂ). The Firm retains 

the right to service these loans and they are serviced in accor-

dance with the agency™s servicing guidelines and standards. 

These sales resulted in pretax gains of $92 million, $32 million 

and $47 million, respectively. 
For a limited number of loan sales, the Firm is obligated to share up 
to 100% of the credit risk associated with the sold loans with the 

purchaser. See Note 31 on page 241 of this Annual Report for 

additional information on loans sold with recourse and other securi-

tization related indemnifications. 
Other Securitizations 
The Firm also securitizes automobile and student loans originated 

by RFS and purchased consumer loans (including automobile and 

student loans). The Firm retains servicing responsibilities for all 

originated and certain purchased student and automobile loans. It 

may also hold a retained interest in these securitizations; such 

residual interests are classified as other assets. At December 31, 

2009 and 2008, the Firm held $9 million and $37 million, respec-

tively, of retained interests in securitized automobile loan securitiza-

tions and $49 million and $52 million, respectively, of residual 

interests in securitized student loans.

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 210
 Securitization activity 
The following tables provide information related to the Firm™s securitization activities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 

For the periods presented, there were no cash flows from the Firm to the QSPEs related to recourse or guarantee arrangements.  
Year ended December 31, 2009 
 Residential mortgage
(g)
    (in millions, except for ratios and where 
 otherwise noted) 
Credit card   Prime
(h)
 Subprime Option ARMs
 Commercial 
 and other 
Student 
loans    Auto
 Principal securitized 
 $ 26,538  $ Š  $ Š  $ Š  $ 500  $ Š  $ 
ŠPretax gains
   22   Š   Š   Š   Š
(i)
   Š   
ŠAll cash flows during the period:  
  
    Proceeds from new securitizations 
     $  26,538
(e)(f)
  $ Š  $ Š  $ Š  $ 542
(e)
  $ Š  $ 
ŠServicing fees collected
   1,251     432
    185   494   11   3   
4Other cash flows received
(a)
   5,000   7   4   Š   Š   Š   
ŠProceeds from collections reinvested in 
revolving securitizations
   161,428   Š   Š   Š   Š   Š   
ŠPurchases of previously transferred financial 
assets (or the underlying collateral)
(b)
   Š   136   Š   29   Š   Š   
249
Cash flows received on the interests that 
continue to be held by the Firm
(c)
   261   475   25    38   109   7   
4Key assumptions used to measure 
retained interests originated during 
the year (rates per annum):  
  
    Prepayment rate
(d)
   16.7%   
     100%
(j)
  
    PPR   
   CPY  
 Weighted-average life (in years) 
       0.5   
     9.0  
 Expected credit losses 
         8.9%   
    Š%
(j)
  
 Discount rate 
       16.0%   
    10.7%  
  Year ended December 31, 2008 
 Residential mortgage
(g)
    (in millions, except for ratios and where 
 otherwise noted) 
Credit card   Prime
(h)
 Subprime Option ARMs
 Commercial  
and other 
Student 
loans    Auto
 Principal securitized 
 $ 21,390  $ Š  $ Š  $ Š  $ 1,023  $ Š  $ 
ŠPretax gains
   151   Š
    Š   Š   Š   Š   
ŠAll cash flows during the period: 
   
    Proceeds from new securitizations 
  $ 21,389
(e)
  $ Š  $ Š  $ Š  $ 989
(e)
  $ Š  $ 
ŠServicing fees collected
   1,162   279   146   129   11   4   
15
Other cash flows received
(a)
   4,985   23   16   Š   Š   Š   
ŠProceeds from collections reinvested in 
revolving securitizations
   152,399   Š   Š   Š   Š   Š   
ŠPurchases of previously transferred financial 
assets (or the underlying collateral)
(b)
   Š   217   13   6   Š   Š   
359
Cash flows received on the interests that 
continue to be held by the Firm
(c)
   117   267   23   53   455   Š   
43
Key assumptions used to measure 
retained interests originated during 
the year (rates per annum): 
   
    Prepayment rate
(d)
     19.1%   
     1.5%  
    PPR   
     CPR  
 Weighted-average life (in years) 
     0.4   
       2.1  
 Expected credit losses 
     4.6%   
     1.5%
(k)
   Discount rate 
   12.5%   
       25.0%  
    JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 211
  Year ended December 31, 2007 
 Residential mortgage 
   (in millions, except for ratios and where 
 otherwise noted) 
Credit card Prime
(h)
 Subprime Option ARMs
 Commercial  
and other 
Student  
loans       Auto
Principal securitized 
 $ 21,160  $ 32,084  $ 6,763  $ Š  $ 12,797  $ 1,168  $ Š
Pretax gains
    177   28
(i)
   43   Š   Š   51   Š
All cash flows during the period: 
       Proceeds from new securitizations 
  $ 21,160  $ 31,791  $ 6,844  $ Š  $ 13,038  $ 1,168  $ Š
Servicing fees collected
   1,005   124   246   Š   7   2   36
Other cash flows received
(a)
   4,963   Š   Š   Š   Š   Š   Š
Proceeds from collections reinvested in 
revolving securitizations
   148,946   Š   Š   Š   Š   Š   Š
Purchases of previously transferred financial 
assets (or the underlying collateral)
(b)
   Š   58   598   Š   Š   Š   431
Cash flows received on the interests that 
continue to be held by the Firm
(c)
   18   140   278   Š   256   Š   89
Key assumptions used to measure 
retained interests originated during 
the year (rates per annum): 
       Prepayment rate
(d)
         20.4%  13.7-37.2%    30.0-48.0%
          0.0-8.0%        1.0-8.0%  
       PPR   CPR    CPR  
           CPR    CPR  
Weighted-average life (in years) 
            0.4      1.3-5.4        2.3-2.8  
       1.3-10.2         9.3  
Expected credit losses 
             3.7%      0.0-1.6%
(k)
        1.2-2.2%
           0.0-1.0%
(k)
               Š%
(k)
  
Discount rate 
       12.0%    5.8-20.0%    12.1-26.7%
       10.0-14.0%             9.0%  
(a) Includes excess servicing fees and other ancillary fees received. 
(b) Includes cash paid by the Firm to reacquire assets from the QSPEs Œ for example, servicer clean-up calls. 

(c)  Includes cash flows received on retained interests including Œ for example, principal repayments, and interest payments. 
(d) PPR: principal payment rate; CPR: constant prepayment rate; CPY: constant prepayment yield. 
(e)  Includes $12.8 billion and $5.5 billion of securities in credit cards; and $47 million and zero of securities in commercial and other; retained by the Firm for the years 
ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(f)  As required under the terms of the transaction documents, $1.6 billion of proceeds from new securitizations were deposited to cash escrow accounts during the year 
ended December 31, 2009. 
(g) Includes securitizations sponsored by Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual as of their respective acquisition dates. 
(h) Includes Alt-A loans. 
(i)  As of January 1, 2007, the Firm elected the fair value option for IB warehouse and the RFS prime mortgage warehouse. The carrying value of these loans accounted for 
at fair value approximates the proceeds received from securitization. 
(j)  Represents a senior interest-only security that is expected to prepay in full as soon as permitted, as such there is no expected credit loss on this security. Market conven-
tion is to utilize a 100% prepayment rate for this type of interest. 
(k) Expected credit losses for consumer prime residential mortgage, and student and certain other securitizations are incorporated into other assumptions. 
JPMorgan Chase™s interest in securitized assets held at fair value 
The following table summarizes the Firm™s retained securitization interests, which are carried at fair value on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance 

Sheets. The risk ratings are periodically reassessed as information becomes available. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, 59% and 55%, 

respectively, of the Firm™s retained securitization interests, which are carried at fair value, were risk rated ﬁAﬂ or better. 
   Ratings profile of interests held 
(c)(d)(e)
    
    2009 
           2008 
 December 31, 
 (in billions)
 Investment 
grade 
Noninvestment 
grade 
Retained 
interests 
Investment 
grade 
Noninvestment 
grade 
     Retained
       interests
 Asset types: 
      Credit card
(a)
   $ 15.6  $ 5.0  $ 20.6 
 $ 5.8   $ 3.8  $   9.6
 Residential mortgage: 
   
  
    Prime
(b)
   0.7   0.4   1.1 
  2.0   0.4   2.4
    Subprime
   Š   Š   Š 
  Š   0.1   0.1
    Option ARMs 
   0.1   Š   0.1 
  0.4   Š   0.4
 Commercial and other
   2.2   0.2   2.4 
  2.2   0.3   2.5
 Student loans
   Š   0.1   0.1 
  Š   0.1   0.1
 Auto
   Š   Š   Š 
  Š   Š   Š
    Total  
  $ 18.6  $ 5.7  $ 24.3 
 $ 10.4   $ 4.7  $ 15.1
 (a)
 Includes retained subordinated interests carried at fair value, including CS™s accrued interests and fees, escrow accounts, and other residual interests. Excludes at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, undivided seller interest in the trusts of $16.7 billion and $33.3 billion, respectively, and unencumbered cash amounts and deposits of 
$6.6 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, which are carried at historical cost. 
(b)
 Includes Alt-A loans. 
(c)
 The ratings scale is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis. 
(d) Includes $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion of investments acquired in the secondary market, but predominantly held for investment purposes, as of December 31, 2009 and 
2008, respectively. Of these amounts, $2.0 billion and $1.7 billion were classified as investment-grade as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(e) Excludes senior and subordinated securities of $875 million and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which the Firm purchased in connection with 
IB™s secondary market-making activities. 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 212
 The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, of 
the Firm™s retained interests, other than MSRs, that are valued using modeling techniques. The table below also outlines the sensitivities of 
those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in assumptions used to determine fair value. For a discussion of MSRs, see 
Note 17 on pages 223Œ224 of this Annual Report. 
   Residential mortgage 
   
December 31, 2009
 (in millions, except rates, and  
 where otherwise noted) 
Credit card   Prime
(d)
   Subprime Option ARMs
 Commercial 
 and other 
Student     Auto 
JPMorgan Chase interests in securitized assets
(a)
  $ 4,016
(c)
  $ 1,143  $  27  $ 113  $  2,361  $  51 $    9 
Weighted-average life (in years)
  0.6   8.3     4.3  5.1    3.5  8.1 0.6 
Weighted-average prepayment rate
(b)
  14.3%  4.9%   21.8%  15.7%  Š%  5.0% 1.4% 
   PPR CPR   CPR  CPR  CPR  CPR ABS 
Impact of 10% adverse change 
 $ (1)  $ (15)  $ (2)  $ Š  $ Š  $ (1) $  Š 
Impact of 20% adverse change
   (2)   (31)   (3)   (1)   Š   (2) (1) 
Weighted-average loss assumption 
 6.8%  3.2%
   2.7%  0.7%  1.4%   Š%
(e)
  0.8% 
Impact of 10% adverse change
  $ (1)  $ (15)  $ (4)  $ Š  $ (41)  $   Š $  Š 
Impact of 20% adverse change
   (3)   (29)   (7)   Š   (100)   Š 
Š 
Weighted-average discount rate 
 12.0% 11.4%   23.2%   5.4%  12.5%  9.0% 2.8% 
Impact of 10% adverse change
  $ (10)  $ (41)  $ (2)  $ (1)  $ (72)  $ (2) $  Š 
Impact of 20% adverse change
   (20)   (82)   (4)   (3)   (139)   (4) Š 
    Residential mortgage 
   December 31, 2008 
(in millions, except rates, and  
 where otherwise noted) 
Credit card   Prime
(d)
   Subprime Option ARMs
 Commercial 
 and other 
Student     Auto 
JPMorgan Chase interests in securitized assets
(a)
  $   3,463
(c)
  $ 1,420 
 $ 77 
 $  436  $ 1,966 
 $ 55 $  40 
Weighted-average life (in years)
      0.5 
  5.3 
  1.5 
    7.3 
  3.5 
   8.2   0.7 
Weighted-average prepayment rate
(b)
  16.6% 
   17.7% 
 25.1% 
    7.6% 
  0.7% 
   5.0%   1.3% 
   PPR 
  CPR 
  CPR 
  CPR 
  CPR 
  CPR ABS 
Impact of 10% adverse change 
 $ (42) 
 $ (31) 
 $ (9) 
 $ (4) 
 $ (1) 
 $ (1) $  Š 
Impact of 20% adverse change
   (85) 
  (57) 
  (10) 
  (11) 
  (1) 
  (2) 
(1) 
Weighted-average loss assumption 
   7.0% 
  4.4% 
  3.4% 
   0.3% 
  0.3%
(e)
   Š%
(e)
 0.5% 
Impact of 10% adverse change
  $ (235) 
 $ (25) 
 $ (11) 
 $ Š 
 $ (12) 
 $   Š  $  Š 
Impact of 20% adverse change
   (426) 
  (49) 
  (17) 
  (1) 
  (24) 
  Š 
(1) 
Weighted-average discount rate 
 18.0%  14.5%  21.5% 
 17.3% 
  12.4% 
   9.0% 4.1% 
Impact of 10% adverse change
  $ (10) 
 $ (52) 
 $ (7) 
 $ (16) 
 $ (26) 
 $ (2) $  Š 
Impact of 20% adverse change
   (20) 
  (102) 
  (9) 
  (28) 
  (49) 
  (4) Š 
(a)
 As of December 31, 2008, certain investments acquired in the secondary market but predominantly held for investment purposes are included. 
(b)
 PPR: principal payment rate; ABS: absolute prepayment speed; CPR: constant prepayment rate. 
(c)
 Excludes the Firm™s retained senior and subordinated AFS securities in its credit card securitization trusts, which are discussed in Note 11 on pages 195Œ199 of this 
Annual Report. 
(d)
 Includes Alt-A loans. 
(e)
 Expected losses for student loans and certain wholesale securitizations are minimal and are incorporated into other assumptions. 
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical. Changes in fair value based on a 10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally 
cannot be extrapolated easily, because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, in 
the table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without changing any other assumption. 

In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might counteract or magnify the sensitivities. The above sensitivities 

also do not reflect the Firm™s risk management practices that may be undertaken to mitigate such risks. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
 213
  Loan delinquencies and net charge-offs  
The table below includes information about delinquencies, net charge-offs/(recoveries) and components of reported and securitized finan-
cial assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
Year ended December 31, 
Credit exposure 
 Nonperforming loans
(h)(i)
  90 days or more past 
   due and still accr
uing
(i)
  Net loan charge-offs 
(in millions)
  2009 
 2008 
  2009 
           2008 
 2009
2008
          2009
              2008
 Consumer loans Œ excluding 
purchased credit-impaired 
loans and loans held-for-sale: 
Home equity Œ senior lien 
    
  $  27,376 
$ 29,793 
   $  477 
 $ 291
  $ Š
  $ Š
   $ 234
  $  86
 Home equity Œ junior lien 
  74,049 
  84,542 
   1,188 
  1,103
   Š
   Š
    4,448
   2,305
 Prime mortgage
(a)
   66,892 
  72,266 
   4,355 
  1,895
   Š
   Š
    1,894
   526
 Subprime mortgage  
  12,526 
  15,330 
   3,248 
  2,690
   Š
   Š
    1,648
   933
 Option ARMs  
  8,536 
  9,018 
   312 
  10
   Š
   Š
    63
   Š
 Auto loans  
  46,031 
  42,603 
   177 
  148
   Š
   Š
    627
   568
 Credit card
(b)
   78,786 
  104,746 
   3 
  4
   3,481
   2,649
    9,634
   4,556
 All other loans 
  31,700 
  33,715 
   900 
  430
   542
   463
    1,285
   459
 Total consumer loans  
  345,896 
  392,013 
   10,660 
  6,571
   4,023
   3,112
    19,833
   9,433
 Consumer loans Œ purchased 
credit-impaired
(c)
            Home equity 
  26,520 
  28,555 
   NA 
  NA
   NA
   NA
    NA
  NA
 Prime mortgage 
  19,693 
  21,855 
   NA 
  NA
   NA
   NA
    NA
   NA
 Subprime mortgage  
  5,993 
  6,760 
   NA 
  NA
   NA
   NA
    NA
   NA
 Option ARMs  
  29,039 
  31,643 
   NA 
  NA
   NA
   NA
    NA
   NA
 Total consumer loans Œ  
purchased credit-impaired
(c)
   81,245 
  88,813 
   NA 
  NA
   NA
   NA
    NA
   NA
 Total consumer loans Œ retained 
  427,141 
  480,826 
   10,660 
  6,571
   4,023
   3,112
    19,833
   9,433
 Loans held-for-sale
(d)
   2,142 
  2,028 
   Š 
  Š
   Š
   Š
    Š
   Š
 Total consumer loans Œ reported 
  429,283 
  482,854 
   10,660 
  6,571
   4,023
   3,112
    19,833
   9,433
 Total wholesale loans 
  204,175 
  262,044 
   6,904
(j)
   2,382
(j)
  332
   163
    3,132
   402
 Total loans reported 
  633,458 
  744,898 
   17,564 
  8,953
   4,355
   3,275
    22,965
   9,835
 Securitized loans: 
    
   
   
 Residential mortgage: 
    
   
   
    Prime mortgage
(a)
   171,547 
  212,274 
  33,838 
  21,130
   Š
   Š
    9,333
   5,645
    Subprime mortgage  
  47,261 
  58,607 
  19,505 
  13,301
   Š
   Š
    7,123
   4,797
    Option ARMs  
  41,983 
  48,328 
  10,973 
  6,440
   Š
   Š
    2,287
   270
 Automobile 
  218 
  791 
  1 
  2
   Š
   Š
    4
   15
 Credit card 
  84,626 
  85,571 
  Š 
  Š
   2,385
   1,802
    6,443
   3,612
 Student 
  1,008 
  1,074 
  Š 
  Š
   64
   66
    1
   1
 Commercial and other 
  24,799 
  45,677 
  1,244 
  166
   Š
   28
    15
   8
 Total loans securitized
(e)
   371,442 
  452,322 
  65,561 
  41,039
   2,449
   1,896
    25,206
   14,348
 Total loans reported and  
securitized
(f)
  $ 1,004,900
(g)
 $ 1,197,220
(g)
  $  83,125 
 $ 49,992
  $ 6,804
  $ 5,171
   $ 48,171
  $ 24,183
  (a) Includes Alt-A loans. 
(b) Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts, and $1.0 billion of loans at December 31, 2009, held by the Washington Mutual Master 
Trust, which were consolidated onto the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value during the second quarter of 2009. 
(c) Purchased credit-impaired loans represent loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction for which a deterioration in credit quality occurred between the origination date 
and JPMorgan Chase™s acquisition date. These loans were initially recorded at fair value and accrete interest income over the estimated life of the loan when cash flows are rea-

sonably estimable, even if the underlying loans are contractually past due. For additional information, see Note 13 on pages 200Œ204 of this Annual Report. 
(d) Includes loans for prime mortgages and other (largely student loans) of $450 million and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2009, respectively, and $206 million and $1.8 billion at 
December 31, 2008, respectively. 
(e) Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs were $541.4 billion and $640.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $371.4 billion and $452.3 billion of loans 
securitized at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, excludes: $145.0 billion and $152.4 billion of securitized loans, in which the Firm has no continuing involvement; $16.7 

billion and $33.3 billion of seller™s interests in credit card master trusts; and $8.3 billion and $2.8 billion of cash amounts on deposit and escrow accounts, all respectively. 
(f) Represents both loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and loans that have been securitized. 
(g) Includes securitized loans that were previously recorded at fair value and classified as trading assets. 
(h) At December 31, 2009 and 2008, nonperforming loans excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $9.0 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively; (2) student 
loans that were 90 days past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, of $542 million and $437 

million, respectively. These amounts are excluded, as reimbursement is proceeding normally. In addition, the Firm™s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed 
on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance. Under guidance issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, credit card loans are charged off by the 

end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification about a specified event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), which-

ever is earlier.  
(i) Excludes purchased credit-impaired loans that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is accounted 
for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past due status of the pools, or that of individual loans within the pools, 

in not meaningful. Because the Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, they are all considered to be performing. 
(j) Includes nonperforming loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value of $345 million and $32 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
214
 Note 16 Œ Variable interest entities  
Refer to Note 1 on page 150 of this Annual Report fo
r a further 
description of JPMorgan Chase™s policies regarding consolidation of 
variable interest entities. 
JPMorgan Chase™s principal involvement with VIEs occurs in the 
following business segments: 
Ł  Investment Bank: Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in accessing the 
financial markets in a cost-efficient manner. IB is involved with 
VIEs through multi-seller conduits and for investor intermedia-

tion purposes, as discussed below. IB also securitizes loans 

through QSPEs, to create asset-backed securities, as further dis-

cussed in Note 15 on pages 206Œ213 of this Annual Report. 
Ł  Asset Management (ﬁAMﬂ): The legal entity structures for a 
limited number of funds sponsored and managed by asset man-

agement include certain entities within the structure which are 

deemed VIEs. As asset manager of the funds, AM earns a fee 

based on assets managed; the fee varies with each fund's in-

vestment objective and is competitively priced. For those limited 

number of funds that qualify as VIEs, AM™s relationship with 

such funds are not considered significant variable interests under 

U.S. GAAP.
 Ł  Treasury & Securities Services: Provides services
 to a number of 
VIEs that are similar to those provided to non-VIEs. TSS earns 

market-based fees for the services it provides. The relationships 

resulting from TSS™ services are not considered to be significant 

variable interests. 
Ł  Commercial Banking (ﬁCBﬂ): Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in 
accessing the financial markets in a cost-efficient manner. This is 

often accomplished through the use of products similar to those 

offered in IB. CB may assist in the structuring and/or ongoing 

administration of these VIEs and may provide liquidity, letters of 

credit and/or derivative instruments in support of the VIE. The 

relationships resulting from CB™s services are not considered to 

be significant variable interests. 
Ł  Corporate/Private Equity: Corporate utilizes VIEs to issue guaran-
teed capital debt securities. See Note 22 on pages 228Œ229 for 

further information. The Private Equity business, within Corpo-

rate/Private Equity, may be involved with entities that could be 

deemed VIEs. Private equity entities are typically investment 

companies as defined in the investment company accounting 

guidance and, as such, are not required to utilize the accounting 

guidance for the consolidation of VIEs. Had the guidance for 

consolidation of VIEs been applied to these entities, the impact 

would have been immaterial to the Firm™s Consolidated Financial 

Statements as of December 31, 2009. 
As noted above, IB is predominantly involved with multi-seller 

conduits and VIEs associated with investor intermediation activities. 

These nonconsolidated VIEs that are sponsored by JPMorgan Chase 

are discussed below. The Firm considers a ﬁsponsoredﬂ VIE to 

include any entity where: (1) JPMorgan Chase is the principal 
beneficiary of the structure; (2) the VIE is used by JPMorgan Chase 

to securitize Firm assets; (3) the VIE issues financial instruments 

associated with the JPMorgan Chase brand name; or (4) the entity 

is a JPMorgan ChaseŒadministered asset-backed commercial paper 

(ﬁABCPﬂ) conduit. 
Multi-seller conduits 
Funding and liquidity 
The Firm is an active participant in the asset-backed securities 
business, and it helps customers meet their financing needs by 

providing access to the commercial paper markets through VIEs 

known as multi-seller conduits. Multi-seller conduit entities are 

separate bankruptcy remote entities that purchase interests in, and 

make loans secured by, pools of receivables and other financial 

assets pursuant to agreements with customers of the Firm. The 

conduits fund their purchases and loans through the issuance of 

highly rated commercial paper to third-party investors. The primary 

source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flow from 

the pools of assets. In most instances, the assets are structured 

with deal-specific credit enhancements provided by the customers 

(i.e., sellers) to the conduits or other third parties. Deal-specific 

credit enhancements are generally structured to cover a multiple of 

historical losses expected on the pool of assets, and are typically in 

the form of overcollateralization provided by the seller, but also 

may include any combination of the following: recourse to the seller 

or originator, cash collateral accounts, letters of credit, excess 

spread, retention of subordinated interests or third-party guaran-

tees. The deal-specific credit enhancements mitigate the Firm™s 

potential losses on its agreements with the conduits.  
JPMorgan Chase receives fees for structuring multi-seller conduit 
transactions and compensation from the multi-seller conduits for its 

role as administrative agent, liquidity provider, and provider of 

program-wide credit enhancement.  
To ensure timely repayment of the commercial paper, each asset 
pool financed by the conduits has a minimum 100% deal-specific 

liquidity facility associated with it. Deal-specific liquidity facilities 

are the primary source of liquidity support for the conduits. The 

deal-specific liquidity facilities are typically in the form of asset 

purchase agreements and generally structured so the liquidity that 

will be provided by the Firm as liquidity provider will be affected by 

the Firm purchasing, or lending against, a pool of nondefaulted, 

performing assets. In limited circumstances, the Firm may provide 

unconditional liquidity. 
The conduit™s administrative agent can require the liquidity provider 
to perform under its asset purchase agreement with the conduit at 

any time. These agreements may cause the liquidity provider, 

including the Firm, to purchase an asset from the conduit at an 

amount above the asset™s then current fair value Œ in effect, provid-

ing a guarantee of the initial value of the reference asset as of the 

date of the agreement. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
215
 The Firm also provides the multi-seller conduit vehicles with pro-
gram-wide liquidity facilities in the form of uncommitted short-term 

revolving facilities that can be accessed by the conduits to handle 

funding increments too small to be funded by commercial paper 

and in the form of uncommitted liquidity facilities that can be 

accessed by the conduits only in the event of short-term disruptions 

in the commercial paper market. 
Because the majority of the deal-specific liquidity facilities will only 
fund nondefaulted assets, program-wide credit enhancement is 
required to absorb losses on defaulted receivables in excess of 

losses absorbed by any deal-specific credit enhancement. Program-

wide credit enhancement may be provided by JPMorgan Chase in 

the form of standby letters of credit or by third-party surety bond 

providers. The amount of program-wide credit enhancement re-

quired varies by conduit and ranges between 5% and 10% of the 

applicable commercial paper that is outstanding. 
 
The following table summarizes Firm-administered multi-seller conduits. On May 31,
 2009, the Firm consolidated one of these multi-seller 
conduits due to the redemption of the expected loss note (ﬁELNﬂ). There were no consolidated Firm-administered multi-seller conduits as of 
December 31, 2008.
  
2009 
 2008 
 December 31, (in billions) 
Consolidated NonconsolidatedNonconsolidated
.Total assets funded by conduits
 $ 5.1  
$ 17.8  
$ 42.9
Total commercial paper issued by conduits
 5.1 17.8 
43.1
Liquidity and credit enhancements
   
Deal-specific liquidity facilities (primarily asset purchase agreements) 
8.0 
24.2
(b)
 55.4 
(b) 
Program-wide liquidity facilities 
4.0 
13.0 
17.0 
Program-wide credit enhancements 
 0.4  
 2.0  
 3.0 
Maximum exposure to loss
(a)
 8.0  
24.8  
56.9 
(a) Maximum exposure to loss, calculated separately for each multi-seller conduit, includes the Firm™s exposure to both deal-specific liquidity facilities and program-wide 
credit enhancements. For purposes of calculating maximum exposure to loss, the Firm-provided, program-wide credit enhancement is limited to deal-specific liquidity 
facilities provided by third parties. 
(b) The accounting for the guarantees reflected in these agreements is further discussed in Note 31 on pages 238Œ242 of this Annual Report. 
Assets funded by the multi-seller conduits 
JPMorgan Chase™s administered multi-seller conduits fund a variety of asset types for the Firm™s clients. Asset types primarily include credit card 

receivables, auto loans, trade receivables, student loans, commercial loans, residential mortgages, capital commitments (e.g., loans to private 

equity, mezzanine and real estate funds, secured by capital commitments of highly rated institutional investors), and various other asset types. 

It is the Firm™s intention that the assets funded by its administered multi-seller conduits be sourced only from the Firm™s clients and not origi-

nated by, or transferred from, JPMorgan Chase. 
The following table presents information on the commitments and assets held by JPMorgan Chase™s administered nonconsolidated multi-seller 
conduits as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
2009 
2008 
 Unfunded Commercial Liquidity Liquidity Unfunded Commercial Liquidity Liquidity 
December 31,
 commitments to
 paper funded provided by provided commitments to paper funded provided by provided 
(in billions)
 the Firm™s clients
 assets third parties by the Firm the Firm™s clients assets third parties by the Firm
 Asset types:
     
    Credit card
 $ 1.1  $ 5.2  $ Š  $ 6.3 
  $   3.0  $ 8.9   $ 0.1  $ 11.8
 Vehicle loans and leases 
1.8 
5.0   Š 6.8 
1.4 
10.0 Š 
11.4
 Trade receivables 
2.8 
1.8   Š 4.6 
3.8 
5.5 Š 
9.3
 Student loans 
0.3 
1.3   Š 1.6 
0.7 
4.6 Š 
5.3
 Commercial  
0.2 
1.2   Š 1.4 
1.5 
4.0 0.4 
5.1
 Residential mortgage 
   Š 0.6   Š 0.6 
 Š 0.7 Š 0.7
 Capital commitments 
0.2 
1.7  0.6 1.3 
1.3 
3.9 0.6 
4.6
 Rental car finance 
0.4      Š   Š 0.4 
0.2 
0.4 Š 
0.6
 Equipment loans and  
   leases 
0.2 
0.4   Š 0.6 
0.7 
1.6 Š 
2.3
 Floorplan Œ vehicle 
   Š      Š   Š   Š 
0.7 
1.8 Š 
2.5
 Consumer 
   Š 0.2   Š 0.2 
0.1 
0.7 0.1 
0.7
 Other 
   Š 0.4   Š 0.4 
0.6 
0.8 0.3 
1.1
    Total  
$ 7.0
  
$ 17.8
  
$ 0.6
  
$ 24.2
   $ 14.0  $ 42.9   $ 1.5  $ 55.4
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
216
   Ratings profile of VIE assets of the nonconsolidated multi-seller conduits
(a)
    December 31, 2009 
  Investment-grade 
  Noninvestment-
   grade 
  Commercial 
paper funded 
Wt. avg. 
expected life 
(in billions)
 AAA to AAA- AA+ to AA- A+ to A- BBB to BBB- BB+ and below assets (years)
(b)
 Asset types:
        
Credit card
   $ 3.1   $ 2.0   $ 0.1 
  $ Š 
 $ Š   $   5.2 
  1.6
Vehicle loans and leases
 2.9 
2.1 
 Š  Š  Š 
5.0 
2.3
Trade receivables
  Š 1.6 0.1 
 Š 0.1 
1.8 
0.8
Student loans
 1.3 
 Š  Š  Š  Š 
1.3 
0.8
Commercial 
 0.6 
0.2 0.1 
 Š 0.3 
1.2 
2.2
Residential mortgage
  Š 0.5 
 Š  Š 0.1 
0.6 
3.3
Capital commitments
  Š  Š 1.7 
 Š  Š 
1.7 
2.0
Rental car finance 
 Š  Š  Š  Š  Š 
 Š  Š
Equipment loans and leases 
0.2 
0.2 
 Š  Š  Š 0.4 
2.0
Floorplan Œ vehicle 
 Š  Š  Š  Š  Š 
 Š  Š
Consumer 
0.2 
 Š  Š  Š  Š 
0.2 
2.3
Other
  Š 0.4 
 Š  Š  Š 
0.4 
4.9
   Total  
  $ 8.3   $ 7.0   $ 2.0 
  $ Š   $ 0.5   $ 17.8 
  1.9
  Ratings profile of VIE assets of the nonconsolidated multi-seller conduits
(a)
    December 31, 2008 
  Investment-grade 
  Noninvestment-
   grade 
  Commercial 
paper funded 
Wt. avg. 
expected life 
(in billions)
 AAA to AAA- AA+ to AA- A+ to A- BBB to BBB- BB+ and below assets (years)
(b)
 Asset types:
    
    Credit card
   $   4.8   $   3.9   $ 0.1   $ 0.1  $ Š   $   8.9 
1.5
Vehicle loans and leases
 4.1 
4.1 1.8 Š  Š   10.0 
2.5
Trade receivables
 Š 4.0 1.5 Š  Š   5.5 
1.0
Student loans
 3.6 
0.9 Š 0.1  Š   4.6 
1.8
Commercial 
 1.1 
2.0 0.6 0.3  Š   4.0 
2.7
Residential mortgage
 Š 0.6 Š 0.1  Š   0.7 
4.0
Capital commitments
 Š 3.6 0.3 Š  Š   3.9 
2.4
Rental car finance 
Š Š 0.4 Š  Š   0.4 
1.5
 Equipment loans and leases 
0.4 
1.2 Š Š  Š   1.6 
2.2
 Floorplan Œ vehicle 
0.1 
1.0 0.7 Š  Š   1.8 
1.1
 Consumer 
0.1 
0.4 0.2 Š  Š   0.7 
1.6
 Other
 0.5 
0.3 Š Š  Š   0.8 
3.7
   Total  
   $ 14.7   $ 22.0   $ 5.6   $ 0.6  $ Š   $ 42.9 
2.0
(a) The ratings scale is presented on an S&P equivalent basis. 
(b)  Weighted average expected life for each asset type is based on the remaining term of each conduit transaction™s committed liquidity plus either the expected weighted 
average life of the assets should the committed liquidity expire without renewal or the expected time to sell the underlying assets. 
The assets held by the multi-seller conduits are structured so that if 
they were rated, the Firm believes the majority of them would receive 

an ﬁAﬂ rating or better by external rating agencies. However, it is 

unusual for the assets held by the conduits to be explicitly rated by an 

external rating agency. Instead, the Firm™s Credit Risk group assigns 

each asset purchase liquidity facility an internal risk rating based on 

its assessment of the probability of default for the transaction. The 

ratings provided in the above table reflect the S&P-equivalent ratings 

of the internal rating grades assigned by the Firm.  
The risk ratings are periodically reassessed as information becomes 
available. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, 95% and 90%, 

respectively, of the assets in the nonconsolidated conduits were 

risk-rated ﬁAﬂ or better.  
Commercial paper issued by multi-seller conduits
  The weighted-average life of commercial paper issued by noncon-

solidated multi-seller conduits at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

was 19 days and 27 days, respectively, and the average yield on 

the commercial paper was 0.2% and 0.6%, respectively. In the 

normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades and invests in 

commercial paper, including paper issued by the Firm-administered 

conduits. The percentage of commercial paper purchased by the 

Firm from all Firm-administered conduits during 2009 ranged from 

less than 1% to approximately 5.8% on any given day. The largest 

daily amount of commercial paper outstanding held by the Firm in 

any one multi-seller conduit during 2009 was approximately $852 

million, or 11.6%, of the conduit™s commercial paper outstanding. 

The Firm is not obligated under any agreement (contractual or 

noncontractual) to purchase the commercial paper issued by  

nonconsolidated JPMorgan ChaseŒadministered conduits.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
217
 Consolidation analysis  
Each nonconsolidated multi-seller conduit administered by the Firm at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, had issued ELNs, the holders of which 

are committed to absorbing the majority of the expected loss of each 

respective conduit. The total amounts of ELNs outstanding for noncon-

solidated conduits at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $96 million 

and $136 million, respectively. 
The Firm could fund purchases of assets from nonconsolidated, Firm-
administered multi-seller conduits should it become necessary.  
Implied support  
The Firm did not have and continues not to have any intent to 

protect any ELN holders from potential losses on any of the con-

duits™ holdings and has no plans to remove any assets from any 

conduit unless required to do so in its role as administrator. Should 

such a transfer occur, the Firm would allocate losses on such assets 

between itself and the ELN holders in accordance with the terms of 

the applicable ELN.  
Expected loss modeling 
In determining the primary beneficiary of the conduits the Firm 

uses a Monte CarloŒbased model to estimate the expected 

losses of each of the conduits and considers the relative rights 

and obligations of each of the variable interest holders. The 

Firm™s expected loss modeling treats all variable interests, other 

than the ELNs, as its own to determine consolidation. The 

variability to be considered in the modeling of expected losses is 

based on the design of the entity. The Firm™s traditional multi-

seller conduits are designed to pass credit risk, not liquidity risk, 

to its variable interest holders, as the assets are intended to be 

held in the conduit for the longer term. 
The Firm is required to run the Monte CarloŒbased expected loss 
model each time a reconsideration event occurs. In applying this 

guidance to the conduits, the following events are considered to 

be reconsideration events, as they could affect the determination 

of the primary beneficiary of the conduits:  
· New deals, including the issuance of new or additional variable 
interests (credit support, liquidity facilities, etc.);  
· Changes in usage, including the change in the level of outstanding 

variable interests (credit support, liquidity facilities, etc.);  
· Modifications of asset purchase agreements; and  
· Sales of interests held by the primary beneficiary.  
From an operational perspective, the Firm does not run its Monte 

CarloŒbased expected loss model every time there is a reconsidera-

tion event due to the frequency of their occurrence. Instead, the Firm 

runs its expected loss model each quarter and includes a growth 

assumption for each conduit to ensure that a sufficient amount of 

ELNs exists for each conduit at any point during the quarter. 
As part of its normal quarterly modeling, the Firm updates, when 
applicable, the inputs and assumptions used in the expected loss 

model. Specifically, risk ratings and loss given default assumptions 

are continually updated. Management has concluded that the 
model assumptions used were reflective of market participants™ 

assumptions and appropriately considered the probability of 

changes to risk ratings and loss given defaults. 
Qualitative considerations
  The multi-seller conduits are primarily designed to provide an 

efficient means for clients to access the commercial paper market. 

The Firm believes the conduits effectively disperse risk among all 

parties and that the preponderance of the economic risk in the 

Firm™s multi-seller conduits is not held by JPMorgan Chase.  
Investor intermediation  
As a financial intermediary, the Firm creates certain types of VIEs and 

also structures transactions, typically derivative structures, with these 

VIEs to meet investor needs. The Firm may also provide liquidity and 

other support. The risks inherent in the derivative instruments or 

liquidity commitments are managed similarly to other credit, market 

or liquidity risks to which the Firm is exposed. The principal types of 

VIEs for which the Firm is engaged in these structuring activities are 

municipal bond vehicles, credit-linked note vehicles, asset swap 

vehicles and collateralized debt obligation vehicles. 
Municipal bond vehicles 
The Firm has created a series of secondary market trusts that pro-

vide short-term investors with qualifying tax-exempt investments, 

and that allow investors in tax-exempt securities to finance their 

investments at short-term tax-exempt rates. In a typical transaction, 

the vehicle purchases fixed-rate longer-term highly rated municipal 

bonds and funds the purchase by issuing two types of securities: (1) 

putable floating-rate certificates and (2) inverse floating-rate resid-

ual interests (ﬁresidual interestsﬂ). The maturity of each of the 

putable floating-rate certificates and the residual interests is equal 

to the life of the vehicle, while the maturity of the underlying mu-

nicipal bonds is longer. Holders of the putable floating-rate certifi-

cates may ﬁput,ﬂ or tender, the certificates if the remarketing agent 

cannot successfully remarket the floating-rate certificates to an-

other investor. A liquidity facility conditionally obligates the liquidity 

provider to fund the purchase of the tendered floating-rate certifi-

cates. Upon termination of the vehicle, if the proceeds from the sale 

of the underlying municipal bonds are not sufficient to repay the 

liquidity facility, the liquidity provider has recourse either to excess 

collateralization in the vehicle or the residual interest holders for 

reimbursement. 
The third-party holders of the residual interests in these vehicles 
could experience losses if the face amount of the putable floating-

rate certificates exceeds the market value of the municipal bonds 

upon termination of the vehicle. Certain vehicles require a smaller 

initial investment by the residual interest holders and thus do not 

result in excess collateralization. For these vehicles there exists a 

reimbursement obligation which requires the residual interest 

holders to post, during the life of the vehicle, additional collateral 

to the vehicle on a daily basis as the market value of the municipal 

bonds declines. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
218
 JPMorgan Chase often serves as the sole liquidity provider and 
remarketing agent of the putable floating-rate certificates. The 

liquidity provider™s obligation to perform is conditional and is lim-

ited by certain termination events; which include bankruptcy or 

failure to pay by the municipal bond issuer or credit enhancement 

provider, and the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to 

below investment grade. A downgrade of JPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A.™s short-term rating does not affect the Firm™s obligation under 

the liquidity facility. However, in the event of a downgrade in the 

Firm™s credit ratings, holders of the putable floating-rate instru-

ments supported by those liquidity facility commitments might 

choose to sell their instruments, which could increase the likelihood 

that the liquidity commitments could be drawn. In vehicles in which 

third-party investors own the residual interests, in addition to the 

termination events, the Firm™s exposure as liquidity provider is 

further limited by the high credit quality of the underlying municipal 

bonds, the excess collateralization in the vehicle, or the reimburse-

ment agreements with the residual interest holders. In the fourth 

quarter of 2008, a drawdown occurred on one liquidity facility as a 

result of a failure to remarket putable floating-rate certificates. The 

Firm was required to purchase $19 million of putable floating-rate 

certificates. Subsequently, the municipal bond vehicle was termi-

nated and the proceeds from the sales of the municipal bonds, 

together with the collateral posted by the residual interest holder, 

were sufficient to repay the putable floating-rate certificates. In 

2009, the Firm did not experience a drawdown on the liquidity 

facilities. 
As remarketing agent, the Firm may hold putable floating-rate 
certificates of the municipal bond vehicles. At December 31, 2009 
and 2008, respectively, the Firm held $72 million and $293 million 

of these certificates on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The largest 

amount held by the Firm at any time during 2009 was $1.0 billion, 

or 6.7%, of the municipal bond vehicles™ outstanding putable 

floating-rate certificates. The Firm did not have and continues not 

to have any intent to protect any residual interest holder from 

potential losses on any of the municipal bond holdings. 
The long-term credit ratings of the putable floating-rate certificates 
are directly related to the credit ratings of the underlying municipal 

bonds, and to the credit rating of any insurer of the underlying mu-

nicipal bond. A downgrade of a bond insurer would result in a down-

grade of the insured municipal bonds, which would affect the rating 

of the putable floating-rate certificates. This could cause demand for 

these certificates by investors to decline or disappear, as putable 

floating-rate certificate holders typically require an ﬁAA-ﬂ bond 

rating. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, 98% and 97%, respec-

tively, of the municipal bonds held by vehicles to which the Firm 

served as liquidity provider were rated ﬁAA-ﬂ or better, based on 

either the rating of the underlying municipal bond itself, or the 

rating including any credit enhancement. At December 31, 2009 

and 2008, $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, of the bonds 

were insured by monoline bond insurers. 
The Firm sometimes invests in the residual interests of municipal 
bond vehicles. For VIEs in which the Firm owns the residual inter-

ests, the Firm consolidates the VIEs.  
The likelihood is remote that the Firm would have to consolidate 
VIEs in which the Firm does not own the residual interests and that 

are currently offŒbalance sheet. 
Exposure to nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs at December 31, 2009 and 2008, including the ratings profile of the VIEs™ assets, were as 
follows. 
 2009 
 2008 
December 31, 
(in billions) 
Fair value of 
assets held 
 by VIEs 
Liquidity 
facilities
(c)
 Excess/ 
(deficit)
(d)
 Maximum 
exposure 
Fair value of 
assets held 
by VIEs 
Liquidity  
facilities
(c)
 Excess/ 
(deficit)
(d)
 Maximum 
exposure 
Nonconsolidated
         municipal bond 
   vehicles
(a)(b) 
$ 13.2 $  8.4 $  4.8 $  8.4 
$ 10.0 $ 6.9 $ 3.1       $ 6.9
   Ratings profile of VIE assets
(e)
 December 31, 
Investment-grade 
 Noninvestment-
grade 
(in billions)
 AAA to AAA- AA+ to AA- A+ to A-    BBB to BBB
- BB+ and below 
Fair value of 
assets held by 
VIEs 
    Wt. avg.
    expected
 life of assets 
(years)
 Nonconsolidated municipal bond 
vehicles
(a)
     
   2009 
$ 1.6 $ 11.4 $  0.2 $  Š $  Š $ 13.2       10.1
 2008
    3.8       5.9     0.2     0.1     Š     10.0       22.3
 (a)  Excluded $2.8 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which were consolidated due to the Firm owning the residual interests. 
(b) Certain of the municipal bond vehicles are structured to meet the definition of a QSPE (as discussed in Note 1 on page 150 of this Annual Report); accordingly, the assets 
and liabilities of QSPEs are not reflected on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets (except for retained interests reported at fair value). At December 31, 2008, excluded  
collateral with a fair value of $603 million related to QSPE municipal bond vehicles in which the Firm owned the residual interests. The Firm did not own residual interests in 

QSPE municipal bond vehicles at December 31, 2009. 
(c) The Firm may serve as credit enhancement provider for municipal bond vehicles for which it serves as liquidity provider. The Firm provided insurance on underlying 
municipal bonds, in the form of letters of credit, of $10 million at both December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(d) Represents the excess/(deficit) of the fair value of municipal bond assets available to repay the liquidity facilities, if drawn. 
(e)  The ratings scale is based on the Firm™s internal risk ratings and presented on an S&P-equivalent basis. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
219
 Credit-linked note vehicles
 The Firm structures transactions with credit-linked note vehicles in 
which the VIE purchases highly rated assets, such as asset-backed 

securities, and enters into a credit derivative contract with the Firm 
to obtain exposure to a referenced credit which the VIE otherwise 
does not hold. The VIE then issues CLNs with maturities predomi-

nantly ranging from one to ten years in order to transfer the risk of 

the referenced credit to the VIE™s investors. Clients and investors 

often prefer using a CLN vehicle since the CLNs issued by the VIE 

generally carry a higher credit rating than such notes would if 
issued directly by JPMorgan Chase. The Firm™s exposure to the CLN 
vehicles is generally limited to its rights and obligations under the 

credit derivative contract with the VIE, as the Firm does not provide 

any additional contractual financial support to the VIE. In addition, 

the Firm has not historically provided any financial support to the 

CLN vehicles over and above its contractual obligations. Accord-
ingly, the Firm typically does not consolidate the CLN vehicles. As a 
derivative counterparty in a credit-linked note structure, the Firm 

has a senior claim on the collateral of the VIE and reports such 

derivatives on its balance sheet at fair value. The collateral pur-

chased by such VIEs is largely investment-grade, with a significant 

amount being rated ﬁAAA.ﬂ The Firm divides its credit-linked note 

structures broadly into two types: static and managed. 
In a static credit-linked note structure, the CLNs and associated 

credit derivative contract either reference a single credit (e.g., a 

multi-national corporation), or all or part of a fixed portfolio of 

credits. The Firm generally buys protection from the VIE under the 
credit derivative. In a managed credit-linked note structure, the 
CLNs and associated credit derivative generally reference all or part 

of an actively managed portfolio of credits. An agreement exists 

between a portfolio manager and the VIE that gives the portfolio 

manager the ability to substitute each referenced credit in the 

portfolio for an alternative credit. By participating in a structure 
where a portfolio manager has the ability to substitute credits 
within pre-agreed terms, the investors who own the CLNs seek to 

reduce the risk that any single credit in the portfolio will default. 

The Firm does not act as portfolio manager; its involvement with 

the VIE is generally limited to being a derivative counterparty. As a 

net buyer of credit protection, in both static and managed credit-
linked note structures, the Firm pays a premium to the VIE in return 
for the receipt of a payment (up to the notional of the derivative) if 

one or more of the credits within the portfolio defaults, or if the 

losses resulting from the default of reference credits exceed speci-

fied levels.  
Exposure to nonconsolidated credit-linked note VIEs at December 31, 2009 and 2008, was as follows. 
 2009 
 2008 
December 31, 
(in billions) 
Derivative 
receivables 
Trading  
assets
(b)
 Total  
exposure
(c)
 Par value of 
collateral held 
 by VIEs
(d)
 Derivative 
receivables 
Trading 
 assets
(b)
 Total  
exposure
(c) 
Par value of 
collateral held 
by VIEs
(d)
 Credit-linked notes
(a)
             Static structure
   $ 1.9 
  $ 0.7 
  $ 2.6 
  $ 10.8 
  $   3.6 
  $ 0.7 
  $   4.3  $ 14.5
     Managed structure
 5.0 
  0.6 
  5.6 
  15.2 
  7.7 
 0.3 8.0   16.6
 Total 
  $ 6.9 
  $ 1.3 
  $ 8.2 
  $ 26.0 
  $ 11.3 
  $ 1.0 
  $ 12.3  $ 31.1
 (a) Excluded collateral with a fair value of $1.5 billion and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which was consolidated as the Firm, in its role as 
secondary market maker, held a majority of the issued credit-linked notes of certain vehicles. 
(b) Trading assets principally comprise notes issued by VIEs, which from time to time are held as part of the termination of a deal or to support limited market-making. 
(c) OnŒbalance sheet exposure that includes derivative receivables and trading assets. 

(d)  The Firm™s maximum exposure arises through the derivatives executed with the VIEs; the exposure varies over time with changes in the fair value of the derivatives. 
The Firm relies on the collateral held by the VIEs to pay any amounts due under the derivatives; the vehicles are structured at inception so that the par value of the col-

lateral is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts due under the derivative contracts. 
Asset Swap Vehicles 
The Firm also structures and executes transactions with asset swap 
vehicles on behalf of investors. In such transactions, the VIE pur-

chases a specific asset or assets and then enters into a derivative 

with the Firm in order to tailor the interest rate or currency risk, or 

both, of the assets according to investors™ requirements. Generally, 

the assets are held by the VIE to maturity, and the tenor of the 

derivatives would match the maturity of the assets. Investors typi-

cally invest in the notes issued by such VIEs in order to obtain 

exposure to the credit risk of the specific assets, as well as exposure 

to foreign exchange and interest rate risk that is tailored to their 

specific needs. The derivative transaction between the Firm and the 

VIE may include currency swaps to hedge assets held by the VIE 

denominated in foreign currency into the investors™ home or in-

vestment currency or interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate 
risk of assets held by the VIE; to add additional interest rate expo-

sure into the VIE in order to increase the return on the issued notes; 

or to convert an interest-bearing asset into a zero-coupon bond. 
The Firm™s exposure to the asset swap vehicles is generally limited 
to its rights and obligations under the interest rate and/or foreign 

exchange derivative contracts, as the Firm does not provide any 

contractual financial support to the VIE. In addition, the Firm his-

torically has not provided any financial support to the asset swap 

vehicles over and above its contractual obligations. Accordingly, the 

Firm typically does not consolidate the asset swap vehicles. As a 

derivative counterparty, the Firm has a senior claim on the collat-

eral of the VIE and reports such derivatives on its balance sheet at 

fair value. Substantially all of the assets purchased by such VIEs are 

investment-grade. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
220
 Exposure to nonconsolidated asset swap VIEs at December 31, 2009 and 2008, was as follows. 
 2009 
 2008 
December 31, 
(in billions) 
Derivative 
 receivables/
 (payables) 
Trading  
assets
(b)
 Total  
exposure
(c)
 Par value of 
 collateral held 
 by VIEs
(d)
 Derivative 
 receivables/
 (payables) 
Trading 
 assets
(b)
 Total  
exposure
(c) 
  Par value of    
  collateral held 
     by VIEs
(d)
    Nonconsolidated
             asset swap vehicles
(a)
 $ 0.1 $  Š $ 0.1 $ 10.2 
$ (0.2) $ Š $ (0.2)      $ 7.3
 (a) Excluded fair value of collateral of $623 million and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which was consolidated as the Firm, in its role as 
secondary market maker, held a majority of the issued notes of certain vehicles.  
(b) Trading assets principally comprise notes issued by VIEs, which from time to time are held as part of the termination of a deal or to support limited market-making. 
(c) On-balance sheet exposure that includes derivative receivables and trading assets.  
(d) The Firm™s maximum exposure arises through the derivatives executed with the VIEs; the exposure varies over time with changes in the fair value of the derivatives.  
The Firm relies upon the collateral held by the VIEs to pay any amounts due under the derivatives; the vehicles are structured at inception so that the par value of the 
collateral is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts due under the derivative contracts.  
 Collateralized Debt Obligations vehicles 
A CDO typically refers to a security that is collateralized by a pool of 
bonds, loans, equity, derivatives or other assets. The Firm™s in-

volvement with a particular CDO vehicle may take one or more of 

the following forms: arranger, warehouse funding provider, place-

ment agent or underwriter, secondary market-maker for securities 

issued, or derivative counterparty. 
As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Firm had funded nonin-
vestment-grade loans of $156 million and $405 million, respec-

tively, to nonconsolidated CDO warehouse VIEs. The Firm™s 

maximum exposure to loss related to the nonconsolidated CDO 

warehouse VIEs was $156 million and $1.1 billion as of December 

31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
Once the CDO vehicle closes and issues securities, the Firm has no 
obligation to provide further support to the vehicle. At the time of 

closing, the Firm may hold unsold securities that it was not able to 

place with third-party investors. In addition, the Firm may on occa-

sion hold some of the CDO vehicles™ securities as a secondary 

market-maker or as a principal investor, or it may be a derivative 

counterparty to the vehicles. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

these amounts were not significant. 
VIEs sponsored by third parties 
Investment in a third-party credit card securitization trust 
The Firm holds a note in a third-party-sponsored VIE, which is a 
credit card securitization trust that owns credit card receivables 

issued by a national retailer. The note is structured so that the 

principal amount can float up to 47% of the principal amount of 

the receivables held by the trust, not to exceed $4.2 billion.  
The Firm is not the primary beneficiary of the trust and accounts for 
its investment at fair value within AFS investment securities. At 

December 31, 2009 and 2008, the amortized cost of the note was 
$3.5 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, and the fair value was 

$3.5 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. For more information on 

AFS securities, see Note 11 on pages 195Œ199 of this Annual 

Report. 
VIE used in FRBNY transaction  
In conjunction with the Bear Stearns merger, in June 2008, the 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York (ﬁFRBNYﬂ) took control, 

through an LLC formed for this purpose, of a portfolio of $30.0 

billion in assets, based on the value of the portfolio as of March 14, 

2008. The assets of the LLC were funded by a $28.85 billion term 

loan from the FRBNY and a $1.15 billion subordinated loan from 

JPMorgan Chase. The JPMorgan Chase loan is subordinated to the 

FRBNY loan and will bear the first $1.15 billion of any losses of the 

portfolio. Any remaining assets in the portfolio after repayment of 

the FRBNY loan, repayment of the JPMorgan Chase loan and the 

expense of the LLC will be for the account of the FRBNY. The extent 

to which the FRBNY and JPMorgan Chase loans will be repaid will 

depend on the value of the asset portfolio and the liquidation 

strategy directed by the FRBNY. 
Other VIEs sponsored by third parties 
The Firm enters into transactions with VIEs structured by other 

parties. These include, for example, acting as a derivative counter-

party, liquidity provider, investor, underwriter, placement agent, 

trustee or custodian. These transactions are conducted at arm™s 

length, and individual credit decisions are based on the analysis of 

the specific VIE, taking into consideration the quality of the underly-

ing assets. Where these activities do not cause JPMorgan Chase to 

absorb a majority of the expected losses, or to receive a majority of 

the residual returns, the Firm records and reports these positions on 

its Consolidated Balance Sheets, similarly to the way it would 

record and report positions from any other third-party transaction. 

These transactions are not considered significant. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
221
 Consolidated VIE assets and liabilities 
The following table presents information on assets, liabilities and commitments related to VIEs that are consolidated by the Firm. 
        Assets 
December 31, 2009
 (in billions)
 Trading 
assetsŒdebt 
and equity 
instruments Loans Other
(b)
 Total 
   assets
(c)
 VIE program type
     
Multi-seller conduits 
  $  Š   $   2.2   $ 2.9   $   5.1
 Credit card loans
(a)
   Š   6.1   0.8   6.9
 Municipal bond vehicles
   2.8   Š   Š   2.8
 Credit-linked notes 
  1.3   Š   0.2   1.5
 CDO warehouses 
  0.1   Š   Š   0.1
 Other 
  2.2   4.7   1.1   8.0
 Total  
  $ 6.4   $ 13.0   $ 5.0   $ 24.4
   Liabilities 
December 31, 2009 
(in billions)
 Beneficial 
interests   
in VIE assets
(d)
        
Other
(e)
 Total liabilities
VIE program type
   
Multi-seller conduits 
 $ 4.8  $ Š  $ 4.8
Credit card loans
(a)
   3.9   Š   3.9
Municipal bond vehicles 
  2.7   Š   2.7
Credit-linked notes 
  0.3   0.1   0.4
CDO warehouses 
  Š   Š   Š
Other 
  3.5   2.1   5.6
Total  
 $ 15.2  $ 2.2  $ 17.4
  Assets 
December 31, 2008
 (in billions)
 Trading 
assetsŒdebt 
and equity 
instruments Loans Other
(b)
       Total 
     assets
(c)
 VIE program type
     
Multi-seller conduits   $   Š   $  Š   $  Š  $ Š
 Credit card loans
(a)
   Š   Š   Š   Š
 Municipal bond vehicles
   5.9   Š   0.1   6.0
 Credit-linked notes   1.9   Š   0.5   2.4
 CDO warehouses   0.2   Š   0.1   0.3
 Other 
  2.5   5.3   2.1   9.9
 Total  
 $ 10.5   $ 5.3   $ 2.8  $ 18.6
       Liabilities 
December 31, 2008
 (in billions)
 Beneficial 
interests   
in VIE assets
(d)
        
Other
(e)
 Total liabilities
VIE program type
   
Multi-seller conduits   $    Š  $ Š  $   Š
Credit card loans
(a)
   Š   Š   Š
Municipal bond vehicles   5.5   0.4   5.9
Credit-linked notes   1.3   0.6   1.9
CDO warehouses   Š   Š   Š
Other   3.8   2.9   6.7
Total  
  $ 10.6  $ 3.9  $ 14.5
 (a) Represents consolidated securitized credit card loans related to the WMM Trust, as well as loans that were represented by the Firm™s undivided interest and subordi-
nated interest and fees, which were previously recorded on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets prior to consolidation. For further discussion, see Note 15 on 
pages 206Œ213 respectively, of this Annual Report. 
(b) Included assets classified as resale agreements and other assets within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

(c) Assets of each consolidated VIE are generally used to satisfy the liabilities to third parties. The difference between total assets and total liabilities recognized for consolidated 
VIEs represents the Firm™s interest in the consolidated VIEs for each program type. 
(d) The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs are classified in the line item on the Consolidated Balance Sheets titled, ﬁBeneficial 
interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.ﬂ The holders of these beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. In-

cluded in beneficial interests in VIE assets are long-term beneficial interests of $10.4 billion and $10.6 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(e) Included liabilities classified as other borrowed funds, long-term debt, and accounts payable and other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
New accounting guidance for consolidation of variable 
interest entities (including securitization entities) 

In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the account-

ing for the transfers of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs. 
The guidance eliminates the concept of QSPEs and provides addi-
tional guidance with regard to accounting for transfers of financial 

assets. The guidance also changes the approach for determining the 

primary beneficiary of a VIE from a quantitative risk and reward 
model to a qualitative model, based on control and economics.  
The Firm adopted this guidance for VIEs on January 1, 2010, which 
required the consolidation of the Firm's credit card securitization 

trusts, bank-administered asset-backed commercial paper conduits, 
and certain mortgage and other consumer securitization entities.  
The consolidation of these VIEs added approximately $88 billion 

and $92 billion of assets and liabilities, respectively, which were 

not previously consolidated on the Firm's Consolidated Balance 

Sheets in accordance with prior accounting guidance.  The net 

impact of adopting this new accounting guidance was a reduction 
in stockholders™ equity of approximately $4 billion and in Tier 1 
capital ratio by approximately 30 basis points, driven predominantly 
by the establishment of an allowance for loan losses of approxi-

mately $7 billion (pre-tax) related to the receivables held in the 

credit card securitization trusts that were consolidated at the adop-
tion date. 
The U.S. GAAP consolidation of these entities did not have a sig-
nificant impact on risk-weighted assets on the adoption date; this 
was due to the consolidation, for regulatory capital purposes, of the 
Chase Issuance Trust (the Firm™s primary credit card securitization 

trust) in the second quarter of 2009, which added approximately 

$40 billion of risk-weighted assets. For further discussion, see Note 
15 on pages 206Œ213 of this Annual Report. 
In addition, the banking regulatory agencies issued regulatory 
capital rules relating to the adoption of this guidance for VIEs that 

permitted an optional two-quarter implementation delay, which 
defers the effect of this accounting guidance on risk-weighted 
assets and risk-based capital requirements. The Firm elected this 

regulatory implementation delay, as permitted under these new 

regulatory capital rules, for its bank-administered asset-backed 

commercial paper conduits and certain mortgage and other securiti-
zation entities. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
222
 In February 2010, the FASB finalized an amendment that defers the 
requirements of the consolidation guidance for certain investment 

funds, including mutual funds, private equity funds, and hedge 

funds. For the funds included in the deferral, the Firm will continue to 

analyze consolidation under other existing authoritative guidance; 

these funds are not included in the impact noted above. 
Note 17 Œ Goodwill and other intangible assets 
 Goodwill and other intangible assets consist of the 
following.  
December 31, (in millions)  
2009
20082007
Goodwill  
$ 48,357
$ 48,027$ 45,270
Mortgage servicing rights  
15,531
9,4038,632
Other intangible assets: 
Purchased credit card relationships  
$   1,246
$   1,649$   2,303
Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles 
 691
743346
Core deposit intangibles  
1,207
1,5972,067
Other intangibles  
1,477
1,5921,383
Total other intangible assets 
 $   4,621
$   5,581$   6,099
Goodwill  
Goodwill is recorded upon completion of a business combination as 

the difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the 

net assets acquired. Other intangible assets are recorded at their 

fair value upon completion of a business combination or certain 

other transactions, and generally represent the value of customer 

relationships or arrangements. 
The increase in goodwill during 2009 was primarily due to final 
purchase accounting adjustments related to the Bear Stearns merg-

er, and the acquisition of a commodities business, each primarily 

allocated to IB, and foreign currency translation adjustments related 

to the Firm™s Canadian credit card operations, which were allocated 

to Card Services. The increase in goodwill during 2008 was primar-

ily due to the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint 

venture (allocated to Card Services), the merger with Bear Stearns, 

the purchase of an additional equity interest in Highbridge and tax-

related purchase accounting adjustments associated with the Bank 

One merger (which were primarily attributed to IB).  
The goodwill associated with each business combination is allocated 
to the related reporting units, which are determined based on how 

the Firm™s businesses are managed and how they are reviewed by the 

Firm™s Operating Committee. The following table presents goodwill 

attributed to the business segments. 
 December 31, (in millions)  
2009
 2008
 2007
Investment Bank 
$   4,959
  $   4,765
  $   3,578
Retail Financial Services  
16,831
 16,840
 16,848
Card Services  
14,134
 13,977
 12,810
Commercial Banking  
2,868
 2,870
 2,873
Treasury & Securities Services  
1,667
 1,633
 1,660
Asset Management  
7,521
 7,565
 7,124
Corporate/Private Equity 
377
 377
 377
Total goodwill 
 $ 48,357
 $ 48,027
 $ 45,270
The following table presents changes in the carrying amount of goodwill. 
(in millions) 
Total
 Balance at December 31, 2007
(a)
: $   45,270
 Changes during 2008 from: 
 Business combinations 
2,481
 Dispositions 
(38
 ) 
Other
(b)
 314
 Balance at December 31, 2008
(a)
: $   48,027
 Changes during 2009 from: 
 Business combinations 
271
 Dispositions 
Š Other
(b)
 59
 Balance at December 31, 2009
(a)
 $  48,357
 (a)
 Reflects gross goodwill balances as the Firm has not recognized any impairment 
losses to date. 
(b) Includes foreign currency translation adjustments and other tax-related adjustments.
 Impairment Testing 
Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is tested for impairment 
during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more often if events 

or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, 

indicate there may be impairment. Goodwill was not impaired at 

December 31, 2009 or 2008, nor was any goodwill written off due to 

impairment during 2009, 2008 or 2007. 
The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. In the first 
step, the current fair value of each reporting unit is compared with its 

carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value is in excess of the 

carrying value (including goodwill), then the reporting unit™s goodwill 

is considered not to be impaired. If the fair value is less than the 

carrying value (including goodwill), then a second step is performed. 

In the second step, the implied current fair value of the reporting 

unit™s goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of the 

reporting unit (as determined in step one) to the fair value of the net 

assets of the reporting unit, as if the reporting unit were being ac-

quired in a business combination. The resulting implied current fair 

value of goodwill is then compared with the carrying value of the 

reporting unit™s goodwill. If the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds 

its implied current fair value, then an impairment charge is recognized 

for the excess. If the carrying value of goodwill is less than its implied 

current fair value, then no goodwill impairment is recognized. 
The primary method the Firm uses to estimate the fair value of its 
reporting units is the income approach. The models project levered 

cash flows for the forecast period and use the perpetuity growth 

method to calculate terminal values. These cash flows and terminal 

values are then discounted using an appropriate discount rate. Projec-

tions of cash flows are based on the reporting units™ forecasts and 

reviewed with the Operating Committee of the Firm. The Firm™s cost 

of equity is determined using the Capital Asset Pricing Model, which 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
223
 is consistent with methodologies and assumptions the Firm uses 
when advising clients. The discount rate used for each reporting unit 

represents an estimate of the cost of equity capital for that reporting 

unit and is determined based on the Firm™s overall cost of equity, as 

adjusted for the risk characteristics specific to each reporting unit, for 

example, for higher levels of risk or uncertainty associated with the 

business or management™s forecasts and assumptions. To assess the 

reasonableness of the discount rates used for each reporting unit, 

management compares the discount rate to the estimated cost of 

equity for publicly traded institutions with similar businesses and risk 

characteristics. In addition, the weighted average cost of equity 

(aggregating the various reporting units) is compared with the Firms™ 

overall cost of equity to ensure reasonableness.  
The valuations derived from the discounted cash flow models are 
then compared with market-based trading and transaction multi-

ples for relevant competitors. Precise conclusions generally can not 

be drawn from these comparisons due to the differences that 

naturally exist between the Firm's businesses and competitor insti-

tutions. However, trading and transaction comparables are used as 

general indicators to assess the general reasonableness of the 

estimated fair values. Management also takes into consideration a 

comparison between the aggregate fair value of the Firm™s report-

ing units and JPMorgan Chase™s market capitalization. In evaluat-

ing this comparison, management considers several factors, 

including (a) a control premium that would exist in a market trans-

action, (b) factors related to the level of execution risk that would 

exist at the firm-wide level that do not exist at the reporting unit 

level and (c) short-term market volatility and other factors that do 

not directly affect the value of individual reporting units. 
While no impairment of goodwill was recognized during 2009, the 
Firm™s consumer lending businesses in RFS and Card Services have 

elevated risk of potential goodwill impairment due to their expo-

sure to U.S. consumer credit risk. The valuation of these businesses 

are particularly dependent upon economic conditions (including 

unemployment rates, and home prices) and potential legislative and 

regulatory changes that affect consumer credit risk and their busi-

ness models. The assumptions used in the discounted cash flow 

models for these businesses, and the values of the associated net 

assets, were determined using management™s best estimates, and 

the cost of equity reflected the risk and uncertainty for these busi-

nesses and was evaluated in comparison to relevant market peers. 

Deterioration in these assumptions could cause the estimated fair 

values of these reporting units or their associated goodwill to 

decline, which may result in a material impairment charge to earn-

ings in a future period related to some portion of their associated 

goodwill. 
Mortgage servicing rights  

Mortgage servicing rights represent the fair value of future cash 

flows for performing specified mortgage servicing activities (pre-

dominantly with respect to residential mortgage) for others. MSRs 

are either purchased from third parties or retained upon sale or 

securitization of mortgage loans. Servicing activities include collect-

ing principal, interest, and escrow payments from borrowers; mak-

ing tax and insurance payments on behalf of borrowers; monitoring 

delinquencies and executing foreclosure proceedings; and account-

ing for and remitting principal and interest payments to the inves-

tors of the mortgage-backed securities.  
The Firm has one class of servicing assets. JPMorgan Chase made 
this determination based on the availability of market inputs used 

to measure its MSR asset at fair value and its treatment of MSRs as 

one aggregate pool for risk management purposes. As permitted by 

U.S. GAAP, the Firm elected to account for this one class of servic-

ing assets at fair value. The Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs 

using an option-adjusted spread model (ﬁOASﬂ), which projects 

MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios in conjunction 

with the Firm™s prepayment model and then discounts these cash 

flows at risk-adjusted rates. The model considers portfolio charac-

teristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment assump-

tions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue and 

costs to service, and other economic factors. The Firm reassesses 

and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions 

used in the OAS model to reflect market conditions and assump-

tions that a market participant would consider in valuing the MSR 

asset. During 2009 and 2008, the Firm continued to refine its 

proprietary prepayment model based on a number of market-

related factors, including a downward trend in home prices, general 

tightening of credit underwriting standards and the associated 

impact on refinancing activity. The Firm compares fair value esti-

mates and assumptions to observable market data where available, 

and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience.  
The fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates, 
including their effect on prepayment speeds. JPMorgan Chase uses 

or has used combinations of derivatives and securities to manage 

changes in the fair value of MSRs. The intent is to offset any 

changes in the fair value of MSRs with changes in the fair value of 

the related risk management instruments. MSRs decrease in value 

when interest rates decline. Conversely, securities (such as mort-

gage-backed securities), principal-only certificates and certain 

derivatives (when the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments) 

increase in value when interest rates decline.  

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
224
 The following table summarizes MSR activity for the years ended 
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except where  
 otherwise noted) 
2009
 2008 2007 
Fair value at beginning  
of period
 $   9,403
 $  8,632 $   7,546 
MSR activity 
   
Originations of MSRs 
3,615
 3,061 2,335 
Purchase of MSRs 
2 6,755
(d)
 798 
Disposition of MSRs 
(10) 
Š Š Total net additions
 3,607
 9,816 3,133 
Change in valuation due to inputs 
and assumptions
(a)
 5,807
 (6,933) (516) 
Other changes in fair value
(b)
 (3,286) 
(2,112) (1,531) 
Total change in fair value of MSRs
 2,521
 (9,045) (2,047) 
Fair value at December 31
 $ 15,531
(c)
 $  9,403
(c)
 $  8,632 
Change in unrealized gains/ 
(losses) included in income 

related to MSRs held at  
December 31 
$   5,807
 $ (6,933) $    (516) 
Contractual service fees, late fees 
and other ancillary fees in-

cluded in income 
$   4,818
 $  3,353 $  2,429 
Third-party mortgage loans 
serviced at December 31  
(in billions) 
$   1,091
 $  1,185  $     615
  (a) Represents MSR asset fair value adjustments due to changes in inputs, such 
as interest rates and volatility, as well as updates to assumptions used in the 
valuation model. Also represents total realized and unrealized gains/(losses) 
included in net income using significant unobservable inputs (level 3).  
(b) Includes changes in the MSR value due to modeled servicing portfolio runoff 
(or time decay). Represents the impact of cash settlements using significant 

unobservable inputs (level 3).  
(c) Includes $41 million and $55 million related to commercial real estate at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(d) Includes MSRs acquired as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction (of 
which $59 million related to commercial real estate) and the Bear Stearns 
merger. For further discussion, see Note 2 on pages 151Œ156 of this Annual 
Report. 
The following table presents the components of mortgage fees and 
related income (including the impact of MSR risk management 

activities) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
2009
 2008 2007 
RFS net mortgage servicing 
revenue 
   
Production revenue 
$    503
 $    898 $    880 
Net mortgage servicing revenue 
   
  Operating revenue: 
   Loan servicing revenue 
4,942
 3,258 2,334 
Other changes in MSR asset    
    fair value
(a)
 (3,279) 
(2,052) (1,531) 
  Total operating revenue 
1,663
 1,206 803
   Risk management: 
   
Changes in MSR asset fair  

   value due to inputs or  
   assumptions in model
(b)
 5,804
 (6,849) (516) 
Derivative valuation adjust- 
   ments and other 
(4,176) 
8,366 927 
   Total risk management 
1,628
 1,517 411 
Total RFS net mortgage 
servicing revenue 
3,291
 2,723
 1,214
 All other
(c)
 (116) 
(154) 24
 Mortgage fees and related 
income 
$ 3,678
 $ 3,467
 $ 2,118
 (a) Includes changes in the MSR value due to modeled servicing portfolio runoff 
(or time decay). Represents the impact of cash settlements using significant 
unobservable inputs (level 3).  
(b) Represents MSR asset fair value adjustments due to changes in inputs, such 
as interest rates and volatility, as well as updates to assumptions used in the 

valuation model. Also represents total realized and unrealized gains/(losses) 

included in net income using significant unobservable inputs (level 3). 
(c) Primarily represents risk management activities performed by the Chief 
Investment Office (ﬁCIOﬂ) in the Corporate sector. 
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to 
determine the fair value of the Firm™s MSRs at December 31, 2009, 

and 2008, respectively; it also outlines the sensitivities of those fair 

values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those 

assumptions.  
Year ended December 31, (in millions, except rates)
        
2009
 2008 
Weighted-average prepayment speed  
assumption (CPR) 
  
11.37
% 35.21%
 Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change 
 $   
(896
) 
 $(1,039) 
Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change 
  (1,731
) 
(1,970) 
Weighted-average option adjusted spread  
4.63
% 3.80%
 Impact on fair value of 100 basis points 
adverse change 
  $  
 (641
) 
 $   (311) 
Impact on fair value of 200 basis points  
adverse change 
(1,232
) 
(606) 
CPR: Constant prepayment rate. 
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and 

should be used with caution. Changes in fair value based on a 10% 

and 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be easily ex-

trapolated, because the relationship of the change in the assump-

tions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, in this 

table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have 

on the fair value is calculated without changing any other assump-

tion. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in 

another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
225
 Other intangible assets  
During 2009, purchased credit card relationships, other credit card-related intangibles, core deposit intangibles and other intangibles  

decreased $960 million, primarily reflecting amortization expense, partially offset by foreign currency translation adjustments related to the 
Firm™s Canadian credit card operations. 
The components of credit card relationships, core deposits and other intangible assets were as follows. 
  2009 
 2008 
 Gross Accumulated 
Net 
carrying 
Gross Accumulated 
  Net 
      carrying
December 31, (in millions) 
amount amortization value amount amortization 
    value
 Purchased credit card relationships 
  $ 5,783
   $ 4,537
   $ 1,246
   $ 5,765   $ 4,116  $ 
1,649
Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles 
  894
    203
   691
   852    109  
743
Core deposit intangibles 
4,280
   3,073
 1,207
 4,280   2,683 
1,597
Other intangibles
(a)
 2,200
   723
 1,477
 2,376   784 
1,592
(a) The decrease in other intangibles gross amount and accumulated amortization from December 2008 was primarily attributable to the removal of fully amortized assets. 
Amortization expense
  The Firm™s intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives in a manner that best reflects the economic benefits of the intan-
gible asset. $517 million of intangible assets related to asset management advisory contracts were determined to have an indefinite life and are not 

amortized.  
The following table presents amortization expense related to credit card relationships, core deposits and all other intangible assets. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2009 
2008             2007
 Purchased credit card relationships 
  $    421
   $    625 
 $    710
Other credit cardŒrelated intangibles 
94
   33 
 11
Core deposit intangibles 
390
   469 
 554
Other intangibles
(a)
 145
   136 
 119
Total amortization expense
   $ 1,050
   $ 1,263 
 $ 1,394
(a) Excludes amortization expense related to servicing assets on securitized automobile loans, which is recorded in lending and deposit-related fees, of $2 million, $5 million 
and $9 million, for the years ended 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. 
Future amortization expense 
The following table presents estimated future amortization expense related to credit card relationships, core deposits and all other intangible 

assets at December 31, 2009. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
Purchased credit  
card relationships 
Other credit  
card-related intangibles
 Core deposit 
intangibles 
All other  
intangible assets
           Total
 2010 
  $ 354   $ 103  $ 329  $ 127  $ 913
 2011 
290 
102 
284 
117   793
 2012 
252 
105 
240 
113 710
 2013 
213 
104 
195 
109 621
 2014 
109 
100 
106 
105 420
  Impairment 
The Firm™s intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for 
impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if events or 
changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. 

The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets compares 

the fair value of the intangible asset to its carrying amount. If the 

carrying value exceeds the fair value, then an impairment charge is 

recognized for the difference. Core deposits and credit card rela-

tionships as well as other acquired intangible assets determined to 

have finite lives, are amortized over their estimated useful lives in a 
manner that best reflects the economic benefits of the intangible 

asset. The impairment test for a finite-lived intangible asset com-

pares the undiscounted cash flows associated with the use or 

disposition of the intangible asset to its carrying value. If the sum of 

the undiscounted cash flows exceeds its carrying value, then no 

impairment charge is recorded. If the sum of the undiscounted cash 

flows is less than its carrying value, then an impairment charge is 

recognized to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds 

its fair value.

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
226
 Note 18 Œ Premises and equipment 
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvem
ents, are 
carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. 
JPMorgan Chase computes depreciation using the straight-line 

method over the estimated useful life of an asset. For leasehold 

improvements, the Firm uses the straight-line method computed 

over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the 

estimated useful life of the leased asset. JPMorgan Chase has 

recorded immaterial asset retirement obligations related to asbes-

tos remediation in those cases where it has sufficient information to 

estimate the obligations™ fair value. 
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the 
acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the 

software is ready for its intended use, these costs are amortized on 

a straight-line basis over the software™s expected useful life and 

reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis. 
 Note 19 Œ Deposits
 At December 31, 2009 and 2008, noninterest-bearing and interest-
bearing deposits were as follows. 
December 31, (in millions) 
2009
2008
U.S. offices: 
Noninterest-bearing  
$  204,003
$    210,899
Interest-bearing (included $1,463 
and $1,849 at fair value at  
December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively)  
439,104
511,077
Non-U.S. offices: 
Noninterest-bearing  
8,082
7,697
Interest-bearing (included $2,992 
and $3,756 at fair value at  

December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively) 
287,178
279,604
Total
  
$  938,367
$ 1,009,277
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, time deposits in denominations 
of $100,000 or more were as follows.
 December 31, (in millions) 
2009
 2008
 U.S.  
$   90,552
 $ 147,493
 Non-U.S.  
77,887
 58,247
 Total 
 $ 168,439
 $ 205,740
  
At December 31, 2009, the maturities of time deposits were as 

follows.
 December 31, 2009  
(in millions) 
 U.S. Non-U.S. 
     Total 
2010 
 $ 113,912  $ 97,465  $ 211,377
 2011 
  9,489   654   10,143
 2012 
  3,851   485   4,336
 2013 
  2,783   634   3,417
 2014 
  1,321   127   1,448
 After 5 years 
  671   267   938
 Total 
  $ 132,027  $ 99,632  $ 231,659
  On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 
2008 (the ﬁ2008 Actﬂ) was signed into law. The 2008 Act tempo-

rarily increased the standard maximum FDIC deposit insurance from 

$100,000 to $250,000 per depositor per institution through De-

cember 31, 2009. On May 20, 2009, the Helping Families Save 

Their Homes Act of 2009 (the ﬁ2009 Actﬂ) was signed into law. 

The 2009 Act extends through December 31, 2013, the FDIC™s 

temporary standard maximum deposit insurance amount of 

$250,000 per depositor. On January 1, 2014, the standard maxi-

mum deposit insurance amount will return to $100,000 per deposi-

tor for all deposit accounts except Individual Retirement Accounts 

(ﬁIRAsﬂ) and certain other retirement accounts, which will remain 

at $250,000 per depositor.  
In addition, on November 21, 2008, the FDIC released a final rule 
on the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the ﬁTLG 

Programﬂ). Under one component of this program, the Transaction 

Account Guarantee Program (the "TAG Program") provides unlim-

ited deposit insurance through December 31, 2009, on certain 

noninterest-bearing transaction accounts at FDIC-insured partici-

pating institutions. On December 4, 2008, the Firm elected to 

participate in the TLG Program and, as a result, was required to pay 

additional insurance premiums to the FDIC in an amount equal to 

an annualized 10 basis points on balances in noninterest-bearing 

transaction accounts that exceeded the $250,000 FDIC deposit 

insurance limits, as determined on a quarterly basis. The expiration 

date of the program was extended by six months, from December 

31, 2009, to June 30, 2010, to provide continued support to those 

institutions most affected by the recent financial crisis and phase 

out the program in an orderly manner. On October 22, 2009, the 

Firm notified the FDIC that, as of January 1, 2010, it would no 

longer participate in the TAG Program. As a result of the Firm™s 

decision to opt out of the program, after December 31, 2009, funds 

held in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts will no longer be 

guaranteed in full, but will be insured up to $250,000 under the 

FDIC™s general deposit rules. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
227
 Note 20 Œ Other borrowed funds
  The following table details the components of other 
borrowed funds. 
At December 31, (in millions) 
 2009 
  2008
 Advances from Federal Home Loan Banks
(a)
  $ 27,847
 $ 70,187
 Nonrecourse advances Œ FRBB
(b)
  Š
   11,192
 Other
(c)
  27,893
   51,021
 Total
(d)
  
 $ 55,740
  $ 132,400
 (a) Maturities of advances from the FHLBs are $23.6 billion, $2.6 billion, and 
$716 million in each of the 12-month periods ending December 31, 2010, 
2011, and 2013, respectively, and $926 million maturing after December 31, 

2014. Maturities for the 12-month period ending December 31, 2012 and 
2014 were not material. 
(b) On September 19, 2008, the Federal Reserve Board established a special 
lending facility, the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual 
Fund Liquidity Facility (ﬁAML Facilityﬂ), to provide liquidity to eligible U.S. 
money market mutual funds. Under the AML Facility, banking organizations 
must use the loan proceeds to finance their purchases of eligible high-quality 

ABCP investments from money market mutual funds, which are pledged to 
secure nonrecourse advances from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
(ﬁFRBBﬂ). Participating banking organizations do not bear any credit or mar-

ket risk related to the ABCP investments they hold under this facility; there-
fore, the ABCP investments held are not assessed any regulatory capital. The 
AML Facility ended on February 1, 2010. The nonrecourse advances from the 

FRBB were elected under the fair value option and recorded in other bor-
rowed funds; the corresponding ABCP investments were also elected under 
the fair value option and recorded in other assets. The fair value of ABCP in-

vestments purchased under the AML Facility for U.S. money market mutual 
funds is determined based on observable market information and is classified 
in level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
(c) Includes zero and $30 billion of advances from the Federal Reserve under the 
Federal Reserve™s Term Auction Facility (ﬁTAFﬂ) at December 31, 2009 and 
2008, respectively, pursuant to which the Federal Reserve auctions term 
funds to depository institutions that are eligible to borrow under the primary 

credit program. The TAF allows all eligible depository institutions to place a 
bid for an advance from its local Federal Reserve Bank at an interest rate set 
by an auction. All advances are required to be fully collateralized. The TAF is 

designed to improve liquidity by making it easier for sound institutions to bor-
row when the markets are not operating efficiently. 
(d) Includes other borrowed funds of $5.6 billion and $14.7 billion accounted for 
at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
Note 21 Œ Accounts payable and other  
liabilities
  The following table details the components of accoun
ts payable 
and other liabilities at each of the dates indicated. 
At December 31, 
(in millions) 
   2009 
 2008
Brokerage payables
(a)
  $  92,848
  $ 115,483
Accounts payable  and other  
liabilities
(b)
    69,848
   72,495
Total   $  162,696
  $ 187,978
(a)
 Includes payables to customers, brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, 
and securities fails. 
(b)
 Includes $357 million and zero accounted for at fair value at December 31, 
2009 and 2008, respectively. 
    
   
   
 
   
   
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
228
 Note 22 Œ Long-term debt
 JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies, although predominantly U.S. dollars, with both fixed and variable 
interest rates. The following table is a summary of long-term debt carrying values (including unamortized original issue discount, valuation 
adjustments and fair value adjustments, where applicable) by contractual maturity as of December 31, 2009.
   By remaining maturity at
  2009
  December 31, 2009 
 Under 
 After 
           2008  
(in millions, except rates)  
1 year 1Œ5 years 5 years 
Total
            Total  
Parent company
        Senior debt:
(a)
 Fixed rate
(b)
 $  11,645
 $  57,292
 $  24,792
 $  93,729
  $ 79,908 
 Variable rate
(c)
    16,892
    47,308
    9,135
    73,335
   65,234 
 Interest rates
(d)
    0.28Œ6.00%
    0.35Œ7.00%
    0.22Œ7.50%
    0.22Œ7.50%
   0.20Œ7.63%
         Subordinated debt: 
Fixed rate 
$  1,713
 $  9,625
 $  13,513
 $  24,851
  $  28,966 
 Variable rate 
   Š
    41
    1,797
    1,838
   1,786 
 Interest rates
(d)
  7.88Œ10.00%
    1.92Œ6.75%
    1.14Œ8.53%
  1.14Œ10.00%
   1.92Œ10.00%
    
Subtotal
 $  30,250
 $  114,266 $  49,237
 $ 193,753
  $ 175,894 
Subsidiaries 
    
    Senior debt:
(a)
 Fixed rate 
$  96
 $  1,695
 $  1,519
 $  3,310
  $ 8,370 
 Variable rate
(e)
    6,729
    22,759
    10,347
    39,835
   57,980 
 Interest rates
(d)
    0.22Œ0.23%
    0.16Œ2.10%
  0.18Œ14.21%
  0.16Œ14.21%
   0.03Œ14.21%
 Subordinated debt: 
Fixed rate 
$  Š
 $  Š
 $  8,655
 $  8,655
  $ 8,700 
 Variable rate 
  Š
    Š
    1,150
    1,150
   1,150 
 Interest rates
(d)
   Š
%    Š
    0.58Œ8.25%
    0.58Œ8.25%
   2.33Œ8.25%
    
Subtotal
 $  6,825
 $  24,454
 $  21,671
 $  52,950
  $ 76,200 
Junior subordinated debt: 
Fixed rate 
$  Š
 $  Š
 $  16,349
 $  16,349
  $ 15,180 
 Variable rate 
   Š
    Š
    3,266
    3,266
   3,409 
 Interest rates
(d)
   Š
   Š
  0.78Œ8.75%
    0.78Œ8.75%
   2.42Œ8.75%
    
Subtotal
 $  Š
 $  Š $  19,615
 $   19,615
  $ 18,589 
Total long-term debt
(f)
  
$  37,075
 $  138,720
 $  90,523
 $ 266,318
(h)(i)(j)
 $ 270,683
(j) 
Long-term beneficial interests:
    
     Fixed rate 
$  596
 $  373
 $  65
 $  1,034
  $ 571 
 Variable rate 
   3,361
    2,549
    3,494
    9,404
   9,990 
 Interest rates 
   0.26Œ5.20%
   0.25Œ7.13%
    0.25Œ5.50%
    0.25Œ7.13%
   0.80Œ9.16%
 Total long-term  
   beneficial interests
(g)
  $  3,957
 $  2,922
 $  3,559
 $  10,438
  $ 10,561 
(a) Included are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments. Embedded derivatives, separated from hybrid securities in accordance with U.S.GAAP, are reported at 
fair value and shown net with the host contract on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in fair value of separated derivatives are recorded in principal transac-
tions revenue. Hybrid securities which the Firm has elected to measure at fair value are classified in the line item of the host contract on the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets; changes in fair value are recorded in principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
(b) Included $21.6 billion and $14.1 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLG Program. 

(c) Included $19.3 billion and $6.9 billion as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLG Program. 

(d) The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year-end, including non-U.S. dollar fixed- and variable-rate issuances, which excludes the 
effects of the associated derivative instruments used in hedge accounting relationships, if applicable. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the Firm™s expo-
sure to the contractual interest rates disclosed in the table above. Including the effects of the hedge accounting derivatives, the range of modified rates in effect at De-

cember 31, 2009, for total long-term debt was (0.17)% to 14.21%, versus the contractual range of 0.16% to 14.21% presented in the table above. The interest rate 
ranges shown exclude structured notes accounted for at fair value. 
(e)  Included $7.8 billion principal amount of U.S. dollar-denominated floating-rate mortgage bonds issued to an unaffiliated statutory trust, which in turn issued 
•6.0 
billion in covered bonds secured by mortgage loans.  
(f)  Included $49.0 billion and $58.2 billion of outstanding structured notes accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(g) Included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs. Also included $1.4 billion and $1.7 billion of outstanding structured 
notes accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Excluded short-term commercial paper beneficial interests of $4.8 billion at December 
31, 2009. 
(h) At December 31, 2009, long-term debt aggregating $33.2 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase, in whole or in part, prior to maturity, based on 
the terms specified in the respective notes. 
(i) The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2009 is $37.1 billion in 2010, $49.1 billion in 2011, $46.8 billion in 
2012, $18.4 billion in 2013 and $24.4 billion in 2014. 
(j)  Included $3.4 billion and $3.4 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The aggregate principal amount of these notes 
at their respective maturities was $6.6 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
229
 The weighted-average contractual interest rates for total long-term 
debt were 3.52% and 4.25% as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively. In order to modify exposure to interest rate and currency 

exchange rate movements, JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instru-
ments, primarily interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps, in 
conjunction with some of its debt issues. The use of these instruments 

modifies the Firm™s interest expense on the associated debt. The 

modified weighted-average interest rates for total long-term debt, 

including the effects of related derivative instruments, were 1.86% and 
3.70% as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
On December 4, 2008, the Firm elected to participate in the TLG 
Program, which was available to, among others, all U.S. depository 
institutions insured by the FDIC and all U.S. bank holding 
companies, unless they opted out of the TLG Program or the FDIC 

terminated their participation. Under the TLG Program, the FDIC 

guaranteed through the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012, 

certain senior unsecured debt issued though October 31, 2009, in 

return for a fee to be paid based on the amount and maturity of 
the debt. Under the TLG Program, the FDIC would pay the unpaid 
principal and interest on an FDIC-guaranteed debt instrument 

upon the failure of the participating entity to make a timely 

payment of principal or interest in accordance with the terms of 
the instrument.  
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (Parent Company) has guaranteed certain 
debt of its subsidiaries, including both long-term debt and structured 

notes sold as part of the Firm™s market-making activities. These 

guarantees rank on a parity with all of the Firm™s other unsecured 
and unsubordinated indebtedness. Guaranteed liabilities totaled 
$4.5 billion and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 

respectively. For additional information, see Note 2 on pages 151Œ
156 of this Annual Report. 
Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by 
trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities  

At December 31, 2009, the Firm had established 25 wholly-owned 

Delaware statutory business trusts (ﬁissuer trustsﬂ) that had issued 

guaranteed capital debt securities. 
The junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by the 
Firm to the issuer trusts, totaling $19.6 billion and $18.6 billion at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were reflected in the 

Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets in long-term debt, and in the 

table on the preceding page under the caption ﬁJunior subordinated 

debtﬂ (i.e., trust preferred capital debt securities). The Firm also 

records the common capital securities issued by the issuer trusts in 
other assets in its Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 
2009 and 2008.  The debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the 

Firm, less the common capital securities of the issuer trusts, qualify 

as Tier 1 capital. 
The following is a summary of the outstanding trust preferred capital debt securities, including unamortized original issue discount, issued by 

each trust, and the junior subordinated deferrable interest debenture issued to each trust, as of December 31, 2009.
 December 31, 2009 (in millions) 
Amount  
of trust preferred 
capital debt 
securities issued 
 by trust (a) 
Principal amount 
 of debenture  
issued to trust (b)
 Issue date 
Stated maturity 
 of trust preferred 
capital securities 
 and debentures 
Earliest  
redemption 
 date 
Interest rate of  
trust preferred  
capital securities  
and debentures 
Interest payment/
 distribution dates
 Bank One Capital III 
  $      474   $      650 2000 2030 Any time  8.75% Semiannually 
Bank One Capital VI 
  525   553 2001 2031 Any time  7.20% Quarterly 
Chase Capital II 
  481   497 1997 2027 Any time  LIBOR + 0.50% Quarterly 
Chase Capital III 
  295   304 1997 2027 Any time  LIBOR + 0.55% Quarterly 
Chase Capital VI 
  241   249 1998 2028 Any time  LIBOR + 0.625% Quarterly 
First Chicago NBD Capital I   248   256 1997 2027 Any time    LIBOR + 0.55% Quarterly 
J.P. Morgan Chase Capital X  1,000   1,014 2002 2032 Any time  7.00% Quarterly 

J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XI  1,075   1,000 2003 2033 Any time  5.88% Quarterly 

J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XII   400   389 2003 2033 Any time  6.25% Quarterly 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XIII   465   480 2004 2034 2014  LIBOR + 0.95% Quarterly 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XIV   600   584 2004 2034 2009  6.20% Quarterly 

JPMorgan Chase Capital XV   995   1,101 2005 2035 Any time  5.88% Semiannually 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XVI   500   491 2005 2035 2010  6.35% Quarterly 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XVII   496   517 2005 2035 Any time  5.85% Semiannually 

JPMorgan Chase Capital XVIII   748   749 2006 2036 Any time  6.95% Semiannually 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XIX   563   564 2006 2036 2011  6.63% Quarterly 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XX   995   996 2006 2036 Any time  6.55% Semiannually 

JPMorgan Chase Capital XXI   836   837 2007 2037 2012  LIBOR + 0.95% Quarterly 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XXII   996   997 2007 2037 Any time  6.45% Semiannually 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIII   643   643 2007 2047 2012  LIBOR + 1.00% Quarterly 

JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIV   700   700 2007 2047 2012  6.88% Quarterly 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XXV  1,492   1,734 2007 2037 2037  6.80% Semiannually 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XXVI  1,815   1,815 2008 2048 2013  8.00% Quarterly 

JPMorgan Chase Capital XXVII   995   995 2009 2039 2039  7.00% Semiannually 
JPMorgan Chase Capital XXVIII   1,500   1,500 2009 2039 2014  7.20% Quarterly 
Total
   $ 19,078   $ 19,615  
    (a) Represents the amount of trust preferred capital debt securities issued to the public by each trust, including unamortized original issue discount.  
(b) Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures issued to each trust, including unamortized original-issue discount. The principal amount of debentures 
issued to the trusts includes the impact of hedging and purchase accounting fair value adjustments that were recorded on the Firm™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
230
 Note 23 Œ Preferred stock 
JPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 200 million sh
ares of preferred 
stock, in one or more series, with a par value of $1 per share.  
On April 23, 2008, the Firm issued 600,000 shares of Fixed to Float-
ing Rate Noncumulative Preferred Stock, Series I (ﬁSeries Iﬂ), for total 

proceeds of $6.0 billion.  
On July 15, 2008, each series of Bear Stearns preferred stock then 
issued and outstanding was exchanged into a series of JPMorgan 

Chase preferred stock (Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, Series F 

and Series G) having substantially identical terms. As a result of the 

exchange, these preferred shares rank equally with the other series of 

the Firm™s preferred stock.  
On August 21, 2008, the Firm issued 180,000 shares of 8.625% 
Noncumulative Preferred Stock, Series J (ﬁSeries Jﬂ), for total pro-

ceeds of $1.8 billion.  
On October 28, 2008, pursuant to the U.S. Department of the Treas-
ury™s (the ﬁU.S. Treasuryﬂ) Capital Purchase Program (the ﬁCapital 

Purchase Programﬂ), the Firm issued to the U.S. Treasury, for total 

proceeds of $25.0 billion, (i) 2.5 million shares of the Firm™s Fixed 

Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series K, par value $1 per 

share and liquidation preference $10,000 per share (the ﬁSeries K 

Preferred Stockﬂ); and (ii) a warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 

shares of the Firm™s common stock at an exercise price of $42.42 per 

share (the ﬁWarrantﬂ), subject to certain anti-dilution and other 

adjustments. The $25.0 billion proceeds were allocated to the Series 

K Preferred Stock and the Warrant based on the relative fair value of 

the instruments. The difference between the initial carrying value of 

$23.7 billion allocated to the Series K Preferred Stock and its redemp-

tion value of $25.0 billion was being amortized to retained earnings 

(with a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the Series K 
Preferred Stock) over the first five years of the contract as an adjust-

ment to the dividend yield, using the effective-yield method. The 

Series K Preferred Stock was nonvoting, qualified as Tier 1 capital and 

ranked equally with the Firm™s other series of preferred stock. On June 

17, 2009, the Firm redeemed all of the outstanding shares of Series K 

Preferred Stock and repaid the full $25.0 billion principal amount 

together with accrued but unpaid dividends.  
In the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Firm, JPMorgan 
Chase™s preferred stock then outstanding takes precedence over the 

Firm™s common stock for the payment of dividends and the distribu-

tion of assets. 
Generally, dividends on shares of outstanding series of preferred 
stock are payable quarterly. Dividends on the shares of Series I 

preferred stock are payable semiannually at a fixed annual dividend 

rate of 7.90% through April 2018, and then become payable 

quarterly at an annual dividend rate of three-month LIBOR plus 

3.47%. The Series K Preferred Stock bore cumulative dividends, 

payable quarterly, at a rate of 5% per year for the first five years 

and 9% per year thereafter. Dividends could only be paid if, as and 

when declared by the Firm™s Board of Directors. The effective divi-

dend yield on the Series K Preferred Stock was 6.16%. The Series K 

Preferred Stock ranked equally with the Firm™s existing 6.15% 

Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E; 5.72% Cumulative Preferred 

Stock, Series F; 5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G; Fixed-

to-Floating Rate Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I; 

and 8.63% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, in 

terms of dividend payments and upon liquidation of the Firm. 
 The following is a summary of JPMorgan Chase™s preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
 Share value and 
redemption 
  Shares 
   Amount (in millions) 
 Earliest 
Contractual 
 rate in effect at
 December 31,
 December 31, 
price per share
(b)
   2009 
 2008 
2009 
 2008 redemption date 
2009 
Cumulative Preferred Stock, 
Series E
(a) 
 $ 200 
 818,113 
 818,113 
 $ 164 
 $ 164 Any time 
6.15% 
Cumulative Preferred Stock, 
Series F
(a) 
  200 
 428,825 
 428,825 
  86 
86 Any time 
5.72 
Cumulative Preferred Stock, 
Series G
(a) 
  200 
 511,169 
 511,169 
  102 
102 Any time 
5.49 
Fixed to Floating Rate  
Noncumulative Perpetual 
Preferred Stock, Series I
(a) 
  10,000 
 600,000 
 600,000 
  6,000 
6,000 4/30/2018 
7.90 
Noncumulative Perpetual 
Preferred Stock, Series J
(a) 
  10,000 
 180,000 
 180,000 
  1,800 
1,800 9/1/2013 
8.63 
Fixed Rate Cumulative  
Perpetual Preferred Stock, 
 Series K
   10,000 
 Š 
  2,500,000 
  Š 
23,787
(c)
 Š
  
 NA 
Total preferred stock  
 2,538,107 
 5,038,107 
 $ 8,152 
 $ 31,939 
  (a) Represented by depositary shares. 
(b) Redemption price includes amount shown in the table plus any accrued but unpaid dividends. 

(c) Represents the carrying value as of December 31, 2008. The redemption value was $25.0 billion. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
231
 Dividend restrictions 
Prior to the redemption of the Series K Preferred Stock, any accrued 
and unpaid dividends on the Series K Preferred Stock were required 

to be fully paid before dividends could be declared or paid on stock 

ranking junior or equally with the Series K Preferred Stock. In addi-

tion, the U.S. Treasury™s consent was required for any increase in 

dividends on common stock from the $0.38 per share quarterly 

dividend paid on October 31, 2008. As a result of the redemption 

of the Series K Preferred Stock, JPMorgan Chase is no longer sub-

ject to any of these restrictions. 
Stock repurchase restrictions 
Prior to the redemption of the Series K Preferred Stock, the Firm 

could not repurchase or redeem any common stock or other equity 

securities of the Firm, or any trust preferred capital debt securities 

issued by the Firm or any of its affiliates, without the prior consent 

of the U.S. Treasury (other than (i) repurchases of the Series K 

Preferred Stock, and (ii) repurchases of junior preferred shares or 

common stock in connection with any employee benefit plan in the 

ordinary course of business consistent with past practice). As a 

result of the redemption of the Series K Preferred Stock, JPMorgan 

Chase is no longer subject to any of these restrictions.
Note 24 Œ Common stock
 At December 31, 2009, JPMorgan Chase was authorized to issue 
9.0 billion shares of common stock with a par value of $1 per 

share. On June 5, 2009, the Firm issued $5.8 billion, or 163 million 

new shares, of its common stock at $35.25 per share. On Septem-

ber 30, 2008, the Firm issued $11.5 billion, or 284 million new 

shares, of its common stock at $40.50 per share. 
On April 8, 2008, pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement 
dated March 24, 2008, between JPMorgan Chase and Bear 

Stearns, 20.7 million newly issued shares of JPMorgan Chase 

common stock were issued to Bear Stearns in a transaction that 

was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, 

pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof, in exchange for 95.0 million newly 

issued shares of Bear Stearns common stock (or 39.5% of Bear 

Stearns common stock after giving effect to the issuance). Upon the 

consummation of the Bear Stearns merger, on May 30, 2008, the 

20.7 million shares of JPMorgan Chase common stock and 95.0 

million shares of Bear Stearns common stock were cancelled. For a 

further discussion of this transaction, see Note 2 on pages 151Œ

156 of this Annual Report.  
Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from treasury) 
by JPMorgan Chase during the years ended December 31, 2009, 

2008 and 2007 were as follows. 
 
 
 
 
 December 31,  
(in millions) 
  2009 
  2008 2007
  Issued Œ balance at January 1 
3,941.6
 3,657.7 3,657.8
 Newly issued: 
  
  Common stock: 
  
  Open market issuance 
163.3
 283.9 Š
  Bear Stearns Share Exchange  
    Agreement 
   Š
 20.7 Š
  Total newly issued
 163.3
 304.6 Š
 Canceled shares 
    Š
 (20.7)
 (0.1
 ) 
Total issued Œ balance at  
December 31
  
4,104.9
 3,941.6 3,657.7
 Treasury Œ balance at January 1 
(208.8)
 (290.3)
 (196.1
 ) 
 Purchase of treasury stock 
   Š
   Š (168.2
 ) 
 Share repurchases related to  
    employee stock-based  

    awards (a) 
(1.1)
 (0.5)
 (2.7
 ) 
 Issued from treasury: 
  
 Net change from the Bear  
Stearns merger as a result of 
the reissuance of Treasury 
stock and the Share Ex-

change Agreement 
      Š
 26.5 Š
 Employee benefits and  
compensation plans 
45.7
 54.4 75.7
  Employee stock purchase plans 
1.3
 1.1 1.0
  Total issued from treasury 
47.0
 82.0 76.7
 Total treasury Œ balance at  
December 31
  
(162.9)
 (208.8)
 (290.3
 ) 
Outstanding  
3,942.0
 3,732.8 3,367.4
 (a) Participants in the Firm™s stock-based incentive plans may have shares 
withheld to cover income taxes. 
Pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, the Firm issued to the 
U.S. Treasury a Warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 shares of 

the Firm™s common stock, at an exercise price of $42.42 per share, 

subject to certain antidilution and other adjustments. Based on the 

Warrant™s fair value relative to the fair value of the Series K Pre-
ferred Stock on October 28, 2008, as discussed in Note 23 on 
pages 230Œ231 of this Annual Report, the Warrant was recorded at 

a value of $1.3 billion. The U.S. Treasury exchanged the Warrant 

for 88,401,697 warrants, each of which was a warrant to purchase 

a share of the Firm™s common stock at an exercise price of $42.42 

per share and, on December 11, 2009, sold the warrants in a 
secondary public offering for $950 million. The warrants are exer-
cisable, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time until 

October 28, 2018. The Firm did not purchase any of the warrants 
sold by the U.S. Treasury. 
In April 2007, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase 
program that authorizes the repurchase of up to $10.0 billion of 

the Firm™s common shares. In connection with the U.S. Treasury™s 

sale of the warrants, the Board of Directors amended the Firm™s 
securities repurchase program to authorize the repurchase of war-
rants for its stock. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 

2008, the Firm did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. 

During 2007, the Firm repurchased 168 million shares of common 

stock under stock repurchase programs approved by the Board of 

Directors. As of December 31, 2009, $6.2 billion of authorized 
repurchase capacity remained under the repurchase program with 
respect to repurchases of common stock, and all the authorized 
repurchase capacity remained with respect to the warrants. 
The authorization to repurchase common stock and warrants will be 
utilized at management™s discretion, and the timing of purchases and 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
232
 the exact number of shares and warrants purchased is subject to 
various factors, including: market conditions; legal considerations 

affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm™s 

capital position, taking into account goodwill and intangibles; internal 

capital generation; and alternative potential investment opportunities. 

The repurchase program does not include specific price targets or 

timetables; may be executed through open market purchases or 

privately negotiated transactions, or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs; 

and may be suspended at any time. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan 

allows the Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it would 

not otherwise be repurchasing common stock Œ for example, during 

internal trading ﬁblack-out periods.ﬂ
 All purchases under a Rule  
10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan that is 

established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic 

information. 
As of December 31, 2009, approximately 582 million unissued 
shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under various 

employee incentive, compensation, option and stock purchase 

plans, director compensation plans, and the Warrants issued under 
the Capital Purchase Program as discussed above. 
Note 25 Œ Earnings per share 
Effective January 1, 2009, the Firm implemented new 
FASB guid-
ance for participating securities, which clarifies that unvested stock-
based compensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to 

dividends or dividend equivalents (collectively, ﬁdividendsﬂ) are 

participating securities and should be included in the earnings per 

share (ﬁEPSﬂ) calculation using the two-class method. JPMorgan 

Chase grants restricted stock and RSUs to certain employees under 

its stock-based compensation programs, which entitle the recipients 

to receive nonforfeitable dividends during the vesting period on a 

basis equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of common stock; 

these unvested awards meet the definition of participating securi-

ties. Under the two-class method, all earnings (distributed and 

undistributed) are allocated to each class of common stock and 

participating securities, based on their respective rights to receive 

dividends. EPS data for the prior periods were revised as required 

by the FASB™s guidance.  
The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted 
EPS for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 
 Year ended December 31,  
(in millions, except per share 
 amounts)
  2009 
20082007
 Basic earnings per share
  Income before extraordinary gain 
 $ 11,652
 $   3,699$ 15,365
 Extraordinary gain  
  76
 1,906Š
 Net income 
  11,728
 5,60515,365
 Less: Preferred stock dividends 
  1,327
 674Š
 Less: Accelerated amortization from 
redemption of preferred stock 
issued to the U.S. Treasury 
     1,112
(e)
 ŠŠ
 Net income applicable to common 
equity 
  9,289
  4,931 15,365
 Less: Dividends and undistributed 
earnings allocated to participating 

securities  
  515
  189 441
 Net income applicable to common 
stockholders
(a)
   8,774
 4,74214,924
 Total weighted-average basic shares 
outstanding 
  3,862.8
 3,501.13,403.6
 Per share 
  Income before extraordinary gain 
 $     2.25
 $     0.81$    4.38
 Extraordinary gain  
    0.02
 0.54Š
 Net income
(b)
    $   2.27
(e)
 $     1.35$    4.38
  Year ended December 31,   
  (in millions, except per share   
 amounts) 
 2009 
2008
  2007
 Diluted earnings per share
  
  Net income applicable to common 
equity 
 $ 9,289
  $ 4,931
  $ 15,365
 Less: Dividends and undistributed 
earnings allocated to participat-
ing securities 
  515
   189
   438
 Net income applicable to common 
stockholders
(a)
   8,774
   4,742
   14,927
 Total weighted-average basic 
shares outstanding 
  3,862.8
   3,501.1
   3,403.6
 Add: Employee stock options, SARs 
and Warrants
(c)
   16.9
   20.7
   41.7
 Total weighted-average diluted 
shares outstanding
(d)
   3,879.7
   3,521.8
   3,445.3
 Per share 
   Income before extraordinary gain 
 $  2.24
  $ 0.81
  $ 4.33
 Extraordinary gain  
  0.02
   0.54
   Š
 Net income per share
(b)
  
$ 2.26
(e)
  $ 1.35
  $ 4.33
 (a) Net income applicable to common stockholders for diluted and basic EPS may 
differ under the two-class method as a result of adding common stock equivalents 
for options, SARs and warrants to dilutive shares outstanding, which alters the 

ratio used to allocate earnings to common stockholders and participating securi-

ties for purposes of calculating diluted EPS. 
(b) EPS data has been revised to reflect the retrospective application of new FASB 
guidance for participating securities, which resulted in a reduction of basic and 

diluted EPS for the year ended December 31, 2009, of $0.13 and $0.05, respec-
tively; for the year ended December 31, 2008, of $0.06 and $0.02, respectively; 
and for the year ended December 31, 2007, of $0.13 and $0.05, respectively. 
(c) Excluded from the computation of diluted EPS (due to the antidilutive effect) were 
options issued under employee benefit plans and, for 2008, the Warrant issued 

under the U.S. Treasury™s Capital Purchase Program to purchase shares of the 

Firm™s common stock totaling 266 million, 209 million and 129 million for the 
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
(d) Participating securities were included in the calculation of diluted EPS using the 
two-class method, as this computation was more dilutive than the calculation us-

ing the treasury-stock method. 
(e) The calculation of basic and diluted EPS for the year ended December 31, 
2009, includes a one-time noncash reduction of $1.1 billion, or $0.27 per 
share, resulting from the redemption of the Series K Preferred Stock issued to 
the U.S. Treasury. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
233
 Note 26 Œ Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) 
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) includ
es the after-tax change in unrealized gains/(losses) on AFS securities, foreign currency 
translation adjustments (including the impact of related derivatives), cash flow hedging activities and net loss and prior service cost/(credit) 
related to the Firm™s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. 
(in millions) 
Unrealized gains/(losses) 
 on AFS securities
(a)
 Translation 
adjustments, 
net of hedges Cash flow hedges 
Net loss and prior  
service costs/(credit) of  
defined benefit pension  
and OPEB plans 
      
Accumulated other 
         comprehensive
            income/(loss) 
Balance at December 31, 2006 
 $ 29 
 $ 5  $ (489)  $ (1,102) 
$ (1,557
 ) 
Cumulative effect of changes in  
accounting principles (for fair value  
option elections)
 (1) Š 
Š Š (1
 ) 
Balance at January 1, 2007, adjusted 
28 
5 
(489) 
(1,102) 
(1,558
 ) 
Net change 
352
(b)
 3 
(313) 
599 
641
  Balance at December 31, 2007 
380 
8 
(802) 
(503) 
(917
 ) 
Net change 
(2,481)
(c)
 (606) 
600 
(2,283) 
(4,770
 ) 
Balance at December 31, 2008 
  (2,101)   (598)   (202)   (2,786) 
(5,687
 ) 
Net change 
  4,133
(d)
 582 
383 
498 
5,596
  Balance at December 31, 2009  $ 2,032
(e)
  $ (16)  $ 181  $ (2,288) 
$     (91
 ) 
(a) Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of the AFS securities portfolio and retained interests in securitizations recorded in other 
assets. 
(b) The net change during 2007 was due primarily to a decline in interest rates. 
(c)  The net change during 2008 was due primarily to spread widening related to credit card asset-backed securities, nonagency mortgage-backed securities and collateral-
ized loan obligations. 
(d) The net change during 2009 was due primarily to overall market spread and market liquidity improvement as well as changes in the composition of investments. 
(e) Includes after-tax unrealized losses of $(226) million not related to credit on debt securities for which credit losses have been recognized in income.
 The following table presents the before- and after-t
ax changes in net unrealized gains/(losses); and reclassification adjustments for realized 
(gains)/losses on AFS securities and cash flow hedges; changes resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of 
related derivatives); net gains/(losses) and prior service costs/(credits) from pension and OPEB plans; and amortization of pension and OPEB 
amounts into net income. Reclassification adjustments include amounts recognized in net income that had been recorded previously in other 
comprehensive income/(loss). 
   2009 
   2008 
   2007 
  Before Tax After Before Tax After Before Tax After 
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
 tax effect tax tax effect tax tax effect tax 
Unrealized gains/(losses) on AFS securities:
          
Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period 
 $ 7,870 
 $ (3,029)
  $ 4,841 
 $ (3,071) 
  $ 1,171
  $ (1,900)
  $ 759  $ (310)  $ 449
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/losses 
included in net income 
(1,152)
 444 (708)
 (965) 384
 (581)
 (164) 67 (97
 ) 
  Net change 
6,718 (2,585)
 4,133 
(4,036) 1,555
 (2,481)
 595 (243) 352
  Translation adjustments: 
   
     
  Translation
 1,139 (398)
 741 
(1,781) 682
 (1,099)
 754 (281) 473
  Hedges 
(259)
 100 (159)
 820 (327)
 493 (780) 310 (470
 ) 
  Net change 
880 (298)
 582 
(961) 355
 (606)
 (26) 29 3
  Cash flow hedges: 
   
     
  Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during the period 
767 (308)
 459 
584 (226)
 358 (737) 294 (443
 ) 
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/losses       
    
     included in net income 
(124)
 48 (76)
 402 (160)
 242 217 (87) 130
    Net change 
643 (260)
 383 
986 (386)
 600 (520) 207 (313
 ) 
Net loss and prior service cost/(credit) of 
defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:
     
    
  Net gains/(losses) and prior service credits arising 
during the period
 494 (200)
 294 
(3,579) 1,289
 (2,290)
 934 (372) 562
  Reclassification adjustment for net loss and prior  
  service credits included in net income 
337 (133)
 204 
14 (7)
 7 59 (22) 37
    Net change 
831 (333)
 498 
(3,565) 1,282
 (2,283)
 993 (394) 599
  Total Other comprehensive income/(loss)
  $ 9,072 
 $  (3,476)
  $ 5,596 
 $ (7,576) 
  $ 2,806
  $ (4,770)
 $ 1,042  $ (401)  $ 
641
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
234
 Note 27 Œ Income taxes  
JPMorgan Chase and its eligible subsidiaries file a 
consolidated U.S. 
federal income tax return. JPMorgan Chase uses the asset and 
liability method to provide income taxes on all transactions re-

corded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. This method 

requires that income taxes reflect the expected future tax conse-

quences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 

assets or liabilities for book and tax purposes. Accordingly, a de-

ferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference is deter-

mined based on the tax rates that the Firm expects to be in effect 

when the underlying items of income and expense are realized. 

JPMorgan Chase™s expense for income taxes includes the current 

and deferred portions of that expense. A valuation allowance is 

established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the Firm 

expects to realize.  
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of the 
Firm™s businesses, and from conducting business and being taxed in 

a substantial number of jurisdictions, significant judgments and 

estimates are required to be made. Agreement of tax liabilities 

between JPMorgan Chase and the many tax jurisdictions in which 

the Firm files tax returns may not be finalized for several years. 

Thus, the Firm™s final tax-related assets and liabilities may ulti-

mately be different from those currently reported. 
The components of income tax expense/(benefit) included in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income were as follows for each of the 

years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
 2009 
 2008  2007
Current income tax expense    
U.S. federal 
 $ 4,698
  $ 395  $ 2,805
Non-U.S. 
   2,368
   1,009   2,985
U.S. state and local 
  971
   307   343
Total current income  
  tax expense 
   8,037
   1,711   6,133
Deferred income tax expense/
 (benefit)  
  
U.S. federal 
  (2,867)
   (3,015)
   1,122
Non-U.S. 
  (454)
   1   (185) 
U.S. state and local 
  (301)
   377   370
 Total deferred income  

  tax expense/(benefit)    (3,622)
   (2,637)
   1,307
 Total income tax expense/ 
(benefit) before extraor-

dinary gain
  $ 4,415
  $ (926)
  $ 7,440
 Total income tax expense includes $280 million, $55 million and 
$74 million of tax benefits recorded in 2009, 2008 and 2007, 

respectively, as a result of tax audit resolutions.  
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effect of certain items 

that are recorded each period directly in stockholders™ equity and 

certain tax benefits associated with the Firm™s employee stock-

based compensation plans. The table also does not reflect the 

cumulative tax effects of initially implementing new accounting 

pronouncements in 2007. The tax effect of all items recorded 

directly to stockholders™ equity resulted in a decrease of $3.7 billion 

in 2009 and an increase in stockholders™ equity of $3.0 billion and 

$159 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
U.S. federal income taxes have not been provided on the undistrib-
uted earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent that 

such earnings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period 

of time. During 2008, as part of JPMorgan Chase™s periodic review 

of the business requirements and capital needs of its non-U.S. 

subsidiaries, combined with the formation of specific strategies and 

steps taken to fulfill these requirements and needs, the Firm deter-

mined that the undistributed earnings of certain of its subsidiaries, 

for which U.S. federal income taxes had been provided, will be 

indefinitely reinvested to fund the current and future growth of the 

related businesses. As management does not intend to use the 

earnings of these subsidiaries as a source of funding for its U.S. 

operations, such earnings will not be distributed to the U.S. in the 

foreseeable future. This determination resulted in the release of 

deferred tax liabilities and the recognition of an income tax benefit 

of $1.1 billion associated with these undistributed earnings. For 

2009, pretax earnings of approximately $2.8 billion were generated 

that will be indefinitely reinvested in these subsidiaries. At Decem-

ber 31, 2009, the cumulative amount of undistributed pretax 

earnings in these subsidiaries approximated $15.7 billion. If the 

Firm were to record a deferred tax liability associated with these 

undistributed earnings, the amount would be $3.6 billion at De-

cember 31, 2009. 
The tax expense applicable to securities gains and losses for the 
years 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $427 million, $608 million, and 

$60 million, respectively. 
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S. income tax rate to 
the effective tax rate for each of the years ended December 31, 

2009, 2008 and 2007, is presented in the following table. 
Year ended December 31,  
  
 2009
  2008   2007
  Statutory U.S. federal tax rate 
  35.0%
  35.0%
 35.0
 % 
Increase/(decrease) in tax rate 
resulting from: 
  
  U.S. state and local income  
taxes, net of U.S. federal  
income tax benefit 
2.7
 16.0 2.0
  Tax-exempt income 
(3.9)
 (14.8) (2.4
 ) 
Non-U.S. subsidiary earnings 
(1.7) 
(53.6) (1.1
 ) 
Business tax credits 
(5.5)
 (24.5) (2.5
 ) 
Bear Stearns equity losses 
 Š
 5.7 Š
  Other, net 
0.9
 2.8 1.6
  Effective tax rate
 27.5%
 (33.4)%
 32.6
 % 
   JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
235
 Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) results from differences be-
tween assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting versus 

income-tax return purposes. The significant components of deferred 

tax assets and liabilities are reflected in the following table as of 

December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
December 31, (in millions) 
2009 
2008
 Deferred tax assets 
     Allowance for loan losses 
 $ 12,376
  $ 8,029
    Employee benefits 
  4,424
   4,841
    Allowance for other than loan losses 
  3,995
   3,686
    Non-U.S. operations 
  1,926
   2,504
    Tax attribute carryforwards 
  912
   1,383
    Fair value adjustments
(a)
   Š
   2,565
      Gross deferred tax assets
  $ 23,633
  $ 23,008
 Deferred tax liabilities 
     Depreciation and amortization 
 $ 4,832
  $ 4,681
    Leasing transactions 
  2,054
   1,895
    Non-U.S. operations 
  1,338
   946
    Fee income 
  670
   1,015
    Fair value adjustments
(a)
   328
   Š
    Other, net 
  147
   202
      Gross deferred tax liabilities
  $ 9,369
  $ 8,739
 Valuation allowance 
  1,677
   1,266
 Net deferred tax asset
  
 $ 12,587
  $ 13,003
 (a) Includes fair value adjustments related to AFS securities, cash flows hedging 
activities and other portfolio investments. 
JPMorgan Chase has recorded deferred tax assets of $912 million 

at December 31, 2009, in connection with U.S. federal, state and 

local and non-U.S. subsidiary net operating loss carryforwards. At 

December 31, 2009, the U.S. federal net operating loss carryfor-

ward was approximately $1.2 billion, the state and local net oper-

ating loss carryforwards were approximately $4.4 billion and the 

non-U.S. subsidiary net operating loss carryforward was $768 

million. 
If not utilized, the U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward will 
expire in 2027 and the state and local net operating loss carryfor-

wards will expire in years 2026, 2027 and 2028. The non-U.S. 

subsidiary net operating loss carryforward has an unlimited carry-

forward period. 
A valuation allowance has been recorded for losses associated with 
non-U.S. subsidiaries and certain portfolio investments, and certain 

state and local tax benefits. The increase in the valuation allowance 

from 2008 was predominantly related to non-U.S. subsidiaries.  
At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, JPMorgan Chase™s unrecog-
nized tax benefits, excluding related interest expense and penalties, 

were $6.6 billion, $5.9 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively, of which 

$3.5 billion, $2.9 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, if recognized, 

would reduce the annual effective tax rate. As JPMorgan Chase is 

presently under audit by a number of tax authorities, it is reasonably 

possible that unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change 

over the next 12 months, which could also significantly impact 

JPMorgan Chase™s quarterly and annual effective tax rates. 
The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and 
ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended 

December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 
Unrecognized tax benefits 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
 2009
  2008 2007 
Balance at January 1, 
 $ 5,894 
 $ 4,811  $ 4,677 
Increases based on tax positions 
related to the current period 
  584 
  890  434 
Decreases based on tax positions 
related to the current period 
  (6)
   (109)  (241
     
) 
Increases associated with the 
Bear Stearns merger 
  Š 
  1,387  Š 
Increases based on tax positions 
related to prior periods 
  703 
  501  903 
Decreases based on tax positions 
related to prior periods 
  (322)
   (1,386)  (791
     
) 
Decreases related to settlements 
with taxing authorities 
  (203)
   (181)  (158
     
) 
Decreases related to a lapse of 
applicable statute of limitations 
  (42)
   (19)  (13
     
) 
Balance at December 31,
  $ 6,608 
 $ 5,894  $ 4,811 
Pretax interest expense and penalties related to income tax liabili-
ties recognized in income tax expense were $154 million ($101 
million after-tax) in 2009; $571 million ($346 million after-tax) in 

2008; and $516 million ($314 million after-tax) in 2007. Included 

in accounts payable and other liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 

2008, in addition to the Firm™s liability for unrecognized tax bene-

fits, was $2.4 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, for income tax-
related interest and penalties, of which the penalty component was 
insignificant.  
JPMorgan Chase is subject to ongoing tax examinations by the tax 
authorities of the various jurisdictions in which it operates, includ-

ing U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S. jurisdictions. The 

Firm™s consolidated federal income tax returns are presently under 

examination by the Internal Revenue Service (ﬁIRSﬂ) for the years 

2003, 2004 and 2005. The consolidated federal income tax returns 
of Bear Stearns for the years ended November 30, 2003, 2004 and 
2005, are also under examination. Both examinations are expected 
to conclude in 2010. 
 The IRS audits of the consolidated federal income tax returns of 
JPMorgan Chase for the years 2006, 2007 and 2008, and for Bear 

Stearns for the years ended November 30, 2006, November 30, 

2007, and for the period December 1, 2007, through May 30, 2008, 

are expected to commence in 2010. Administrative appeals are 
pending with the IRS relating to prior periods that were examined. 
For 2002 and prior years, refund claims relating to income and credit 

adjustments, and to tax attribute carrybacks, for JPMorgan Chase and 

its predecessor entities, including Bank One, have been filed. 

Amended returns to reflect refund claims primarily attributable to net 

operating losses and tax credit carrybacks will be filed for the final 
Bear Stearns U.S. federal consolidated tax return for the period  
December 1, 2007, through May 30, 2008, and for prior years.  
On January 1, 2007, the Firm adopted FASB guidance which ad-
dresses the recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or 

expected to be taken, and also guidance on derecognition, classifi-

cation, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and 

disclosure, to all of its income tax positions, resulting in a $436 

million cumulative effect increase to retained earnings, a reduction 
in goodwill of $113 million and a $549 million decrease in the 
liability for income taxes.
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
236
 The following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S. components of 
income before income tax expense/(benefit) and extraordinary gain 

for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. 
Year ended December 31,  
(in millions) 
2009
2008
 2007
U.S. 
$   6,263
$ 
(2,094
) $ 13,720
Non-U.S.
(a)
 9,804
4,867
 9,085
Income before income tax 
expense/(benefit) and  
extraordinary gain
 $ 16,067
$  2,773
 $ 22,805
(a)  For purposes of this table, non-U.S. income is defined as income generated 
from operations located outside the U.S. 
Note 28 Œ Restrictions on cash and inter-
company funds transfers 
The business of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Associ
ation 
(ﬁJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.ﬂ) is subject to examination and 
regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 

(ﬁOCCﬂ). The Bank is a member of the U.S. Federal Reserve Sys-

tem, and its deposits are insured by the FDIC. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the ﬁFed-
eral Reserveﬂ) requires depository institutions to maintain cash 

reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank. The average amount of 

reserve balances deposited by the Firm™s bank subsidiaries with 

various Federal Reserve Banks was approximately $821 million and 

$1.6 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
Restrictions imposed by U.S. federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase 
and certain of its affiliates from borrowing from banking subsidiar-

ies unless the loans are secured in specified amounts. Such secured 

loans to the Firm or to other affiliates are generally limited to 10% 

of the banking subsidiary™s total capital, as determined by the risk-

based capital guidelines; the aggregate amount of all such loans is 

limited to 20% of the banking subsidiary™s total capital. 
The principal sources of JPMorgan Chase™s income (on a parent 
companyŒonly basis) are dividends and interest from JPMorgan 

Chase Bank, N.A., and the other banking and nonbanking subsidi-

aries of JPMorgan Chase. In addition to dividend restrictions set 

forth in statutes and regulations, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and 

the FDIC have authority under the Financial Institutions Supervisory 

Act to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking 

organizations they supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its 

subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies, if, in the 
banking regulator™s opinion, payment of a dividend would consti-

tute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condi-

tion of the banking organization. 
At January 1, 2010 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase™s banking subsidi-
aries could pay, in the aggregate, $3.6 billion and $17.0 billion, 

respectively, in dividends to their respective bank holding compa-

nies without the prior approval of their relevant banking regulators. 

The capacity to pay dividends in 2010 will be supplemented by the 

banking subsidiaries™ earnings during the year. 
In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S. and 
non-U.S. regulators, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, cash in 

the amount of $24.0 billion and $34.8 billion, respectively, and 

securities with a fair value of $10.2 billion and $23.4 billion, re-

spectively, were segregated in special bank accounts for the benefit 

of securities and futures brokerage customers.
 Note 29 Œ Capital 
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements
, including 
well-capitalized standards for the consolidated financial holding 
company. The OCC establishes similar capital requirements and 

standards for the Firm™s national banks, including JPMorgan Chase 

Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A. 
There are two categories of risk-based capital: Tier 1 capital and 
Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital includes common stockholders™ equity, 

qualifying preferred stock and minority interest less goodwill and 

other adjustments. Tier 2 capital consists of preferred stock not 

qualifying as Tier 1, subordinated long-term debt and other instru-

ments qualifying as Tier 2, and the aggregate allowance for credit 

losses up to a certain percentage of risk-weighted assets. Total 

regulatory capital is subject to deductions for investments in certain 

subsidiaries. Under the risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal 

Reserve, JPMorgan Chase is required to maintain minimum ratios of 

Tier 1 and Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets, 

as well as minimum leverage ratios (which are defined as Tier 1 

capital to average adjusted onŒbalance sheet assets). Failure to 

meet these minimum requirements could cause the Federal Reserve 

to take action. Banking subsidiaries also are subject to these capital 

requirements by their respective primary regulators. As of December 

31, 2009 and 2008, JPMorgan Chase and all of its banking sub-

sidiaries were well-capitalized and met all capital requirements to 

which each was subject.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
237
 The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008. 
    Well-   Minimum 
December 31, 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(c) 
    JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(c) 
    Chase Bank USA, N.A.
(c) 
 capitalized     capital 
(in millions, except ratios)
  2009
  2008 
 2009
  2008 
 2009
  2008 ratios(f)      ratios
 (f) 
Regulatory capital:  
        Tier 1 
   $   132,971 
  $   136,104 
  $    96,372 
  $  100,597 
 $  15,534 
  $  11,190  
  Total  
 177,073 
 184,720 
  136,646 
  143,832 
19,198 
12,901  
  Assets:  
        Risk-weighted
(a) 
  1,198,006
(d)
   1,244,659
(e)
   1,011,995 
  1,150,938
(e)
   114,693 
101,472  
  Adjusted average
(b)
   1,933,767
(d)
   1,966,895
(e)
   1,609,081 
  1,705,754
(e)
   74,087 
87,286  
  Capital ratios:  
        
Tier 1 capital 
  11.1%
(d)
    10.9% 
   9.5%
   8.7% 
  
 13.5%
  11.0%
 6.0% 4.0
 % 
Total capital  
 14.8 
  14.8 
    13.5 
  12.5 
  16.7 
 12.7 10.0  8.0
  Tier 1 leverage 
 6.9 
 6.9 
 6.0 
  5.9 
  21.0 
 12.8 5.0
(g)
  3.0
 (h)
 (a) Includes offŒbalance sheet risk-weighted assets at December 31, 2009, of $367.4 billion, $312.3 billion and $49.9 billion, and at December 31, 2008, of $357.5 billion, $330.1 
billion and $18.6 billion, for JPMorgan Chase, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., respectively. Risk-weighted assets are calculated in accordance with U.S. 
federal regulatory capital standards. 
(b) Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the leverage ratio, include total average assets adjusted for unrealized gains/(losses) on securities, less deduc-
tions for disallowed goodwill and other intangible assets, investments in certain subsidiaries, and the total adjusted carrying value of nonfinancial equity investments 

that are subject to deductions from Tier 1 capital. 
(c) Asset and capital amounts for JPMorgan Chase™s banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany transactions, whereas the respective amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect 
the elimination of intercompany transactions. 
(d) On January 1, 2010 the Firm adopted new accounting standards, which required the consolidation of the Firm™s credit card securitization trusts, bank-administered 
asset-backed commercial paper conduits and certain mortgage and other consumer securitization VIEs. At adoption, the Firm added approximately $88 billion of 
U.S. GAAP assets and decreased the Tier 1 capital ratio by approximately 30 basis points. The impact to the Tier 1 capital ratio predominantly reflects the establish-
ment of allowance for loan losses of approximately $7 billion (pretax) related to the receivables held in the credit card securitization trusts that were consolidated at 
the adoption date. The impact to the Tier 1 capital ratio does not include guidance issued by the banking regulators that changed the regulatory treatment for con-

solidated ABCP conduits, since the Firm elected the optional two-quarter implementation delay, which may be followed by a two-quarter partial (50%) implementa-
tion of the effect on risk-weighted assets and risk-based capital requirements for entities where the Firm has not provided implicit or voluntary support. As a result of 
the election of the implementation delay as well as certain actions taken by the Firm during the second quarter of 2009 that resulted in the regulatory capital con-

solidation of the Chase Issuance Trust (the Firm™s primary credit card securitization trust) which added approximately $40 billion of risk-weighted assets, the U.S. 
GAAP consolidation of these entities did not have a significant impact on risk-weighted assets at the adoption date. 
(e) The Federal Reserve granted the Firm, for a period of 18 months following the Bear Stearns merger, relief up to a certain specified amount, and subject to certain condi-
tions from the Federal Reserve™s risk-based capital and leverage requirements, with respect to Bear Stearns™ risk-weighted assets and other exposures acquired. The OCC 

granted JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. similar relief from its risk-based capital and leverage requirements. The relief would have ended, by its terms, on September 30, 
2009. Commencing in the second quarter of 2009, the Firm no longer adjusted its risk-based capital ratios to take into account the relief in the calculation of its risk-
based capital ratios as of June 30, 2009. 
(f) As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC. 

(g) Represents requirements for banking subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the FDIC Improvement Act. There is no Tier 1 leverage component in the 
definition of a well-capitalized bank holding company. 
(h) The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio for bank holding companies and banks is 3% or 4%, depending on factors specified in regulations issued by the Federal Reserve 
and OCC. 
Note: Rating agencies allow measures of capital to be adjusted upward for deferred tax liabilities, which have resulted from both nontaxable business combinations and 
from tax-deductible goodwill. The Firm had deferred tax liabilities resulting from nontaxable business combinations totaling $812 million and $1.1 billion at Decem-

ber 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally, the Firm had deferred tax liabilities resulting from tax-deductible goodwill of $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion at  

December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
A reconciliation of the Firm™s total stockholders™ equity to Tier 1 capital and Total qualifying capital is presented in the following table.
 December 31, (in millions)
  2009 
 2008
Tier 1 capital
  Total stockholders™ equity 
 $ 165,365
  $  166,884
Effect of certain items in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) excluded from Tier 1 capital 
75
 5,084
Qualifying hybrid securities and noncontrolling interests
(a)
 19,535
 17,257
Less: Goodwill
(b)
 46,630
 46,417
Fair value DVA on derivative and structured note liabilities related to the Firm™s credit quality 
912
 2,358
Investments in certain subsidiaries 
802
 679
Other intangible assets 
3,660
 3,667
    Total Tier 1 capital
 132,971
 136,104
Tier 2 capital
  Long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2 capital 
28,977
 31,659
Qualifying allowance for credit losses 
15,296
 17,187
Adjustment for investments in certain subsidiaries and other 
(171)
 (230) 
    Total Tier 2 capital
 44,102
 48,616
Total qualifying capital
  $ 177,073
  $  184,720
(a)   Primarily includes trust preferred capital debt securities of certain business trusts. 
(b) Goodwill is net of any associated deferred tax liabilities.

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
238
 Note 30 Œ Commitments and contingencies 
At December 31, 2009, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidi
aries were 
obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases for 
premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes, and 

for energy-related tolling service agreements. Certain leases contain 

renewal options or escalation clauses providing for increased rental 

payments based on maintenance, utility and tax increases, or they 

require the Firm to perform restoration work on leased premises. 

No lease agreement imposes restrictions on the Firm™s ability to pay 

dividends, engage in debt or equity financing transactions or enter 

into further lease agreements.  
The following table presents required future minimum rental pay-
ments under operating leases with noncancelable lease terms that 

expire after December 31, 2009.
 Year ended December 31, (in millions)   
2010 
$  1,652 
2011 
1,629 
2012 
1,550 
2013 
1,478 
2014 
1,379 
After 2014 
8,264 
Total minimum payments required
(a)
 15,952 
Less: Sublease rentals under noncancelable subleases (1,800) 
Net minimum payment required
 $ 14,152 
(a) Lease restoration obligations are accrued in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and 
are not reported as a required minimum lease payment.  
Total rental expense was as follows.
 Year ended December 31, 
(in millions) 
    2009 
     2008 2007 
Gross rental expense 
 $ 1,884
  $ 1,917  $ 1,380 
Sublease rental income 
  (172)
   (415)   
(175)
) 
Net rental expense
  $ 1,712
  $ 1,502  $ 1,205 
 At December 31, 2009, assets were pledged to secure public 
deposits and for other purposes. The significant components of the 

assets pledged were as follows.
 December 31, (in billions) 
    2009
     2008
Reverse repurchase/securities borrowing 
agreements 
 $  392.9
  $  456.6
Securities 
  115.6
  31.0
Loans 
  289.0
  342.3
Trading assets and other 
  76.8
  98.0
Total assets pledged
(a)
  $  874.3
 $  927.9
(a) Total assets pledged do not include assets of consolidated VIEs. These 
assets are not generally used to satisfy liabilities to third parties. See Note 
16 on pages 214Œ222 of this Annual Report for additional information on 
assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs.  
In 2008, the Firm resolved with the IRS issues related to compliance 
with reporting and withholding requirements for certain accounts 

transferred to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 

(ﬁBNYMﬂ) in connection with the Firm™s sale to BNYM of its corpo-

rate trust business. The resolution of these issues did not have a 

material effect on the Firm.
 Litigation reserve 

The Firm maintains litigation reserves for certain of its outstanding 

litigation. JPMorgan Chase accrues for a litigation-related liability 

when it is probable that such a liability has been incurred and the 

amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. When the Firm is 

named as a defendant in a litigation and may be subject to joint 

and several liability, and a judgment-sharing agreement is in place, 

the Firm recognizes expense and obligations net of amounts ex-

pected to be paid by other signatories to the judgment-sharing 

agreement. 
While the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain, manage-
ment believes, in light of all information known to it at December 

31, 2009, the Firm™s litigation reserves were adequate at such date. 

Management reviews litigation reserves at least quarterly, and the 

reserves may be increased or decreased in the future to reflect 

further relevant developments. The Firm believes it has meritorious 

defenses to the claims asserted against it in its currently out-

standing litigation and, with respect to such litigation, intends to 

continue to defend itself vigorously, litigating or settling cases 

according to management™s judgment as to what is in the best 

interests of JPMorgan Chase stockholders.
 Note 31 Œ OffŒbalance sheet lending-related 
financial instruments, guarantees and other 
commitments
 JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g., 
commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its 
customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments 

represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterpar-

ties draw down the commitment or the Firm fulfill its obligation 

under the guarantee, and the counterparties subsequently fail to 

perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these 

commitments and guarantees expire without a default occurring or 

without being drawn. As a result, the total contractual amount of 

these instruments is not, in the Firm™s view, representative of its 

actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. Further, 

certain commitments, predominantly related to consumer financ-

ings, are cancelable, upon notice, at the option of the Firm.  
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in wholesale-related con-
tracts, an allowance for credit losses on lending-related commit-

ments is maintained. See Note 14 on pages 204Œ206 of this 

Annual Report for further discussion of the allowance for credit 

losses on lending-related commitments. 
The following table summarizes the contractual amounts of offŒ
balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees 

and the related allowance for credit losses on lending-related com-

mitments at December 31, 2009 and 2008. The amounts in the table 

below for credit card and home equity lending-related commitments 

represent the total available credit for these products. The Firm has 

not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all available lines of 

credit for these products will be utilized at the same time. The Firm 

can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by providing the borrower 

prior notice or, in some cases, without notice as permitted by law. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
239
 OffŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments 
       Contractual amount                Carrying Value 
(h)
 December 31, (in millions)
       2009 
       2008 
          2009 
          2008
 Lending-related
     Consumer: 
    Home equity Š senior lien 
 $ 19,246
  $ 27,998
  $ Š
  $     Š
Home equity Š junior lien 
  37,231
   67,745
   Š
   Š
Prime mortgage 
  1,654
   5,079
   Š
   Š
Subprime mortgage 
  Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
Option ARMs 
  Š
   Š
   Š
   Š
Auto loans  
  5,467
   4,726
   7
   3
Credit card 
  569,113
   623,702
   Š
   Š
All other loans 
  11,229
   12,257
   5
   22
     Total consumer
   643,940
   741,507
   12
   25
Wholesale: 
     Other unfunded commitments to extend credit
(a)
   192,145
   189,563
   356
   349
  Asset purchase agreements 
  22,685
   53,729
   126
   147
  Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees
(a)(b)(c)
   91,485
   95,352
   919
   671
Unused advised lines of credit 
  35,673
   36,300
   Š
   Š
  Other letters of credit
(a)(b)
   5,167
   4,927
   1
   2
     Total wholesale
   347,155
   379,871
   1,402
   1,169
Total lending-related
  $ 991,095
  $ 1,121,378
  $ 1,414
  $ 1,194
Other guarantees and commitments
    Securities lending guarantees
(d)
  $ 170,777
  $ 169,281
  $ NA
  $     NA
Residual value guarantees 
  672
   670
   Š
   Š
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
(e)
   87,191
   83,835
   762
   5,418
Equity investment commitments
(f)
   2,374
   2,424
   Š
   Š
Loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications: 
     Repurchase liability
(g)
   NA
   NA
   1,705
   1,093
  Loans sold with recourse 
  13,544
   15,020
   271
   241
(a) Represents the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $24.6 billion and $26.4 billion for standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees at December 
31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, $690 million and $1.1 billion for other letters of credit at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $643 million and $789 million for 
other unfunded commitments to extend credit at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve Board these commitments are 
shown gross of risk participations. 
(b)  JPMorgan Chase held collateral relating to $31.5 billion and $31.0 billion of standby letters of credit and $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion of other letters of credit at December 31, 
2009 and 2008, respectively.  
(c)  Includes unissued standby letter of credit commitments of $38.4 billion and $39.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

(d) Collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was $173.2 billion and $170.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
Securities lending collateral comprises primarily cash, and securities issued by governments that are members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development 
(ﬁOECDﬂ) and U.S. government agencies. 
(e) Represents notional amounts of derivatives qualifying as guarantees. The carrying value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, reflects derivative payables of $981 million and 
$5.6 billion, respectively, less derivative receivables of $219 million and $184 million, respectively. 
(f)  Includes unfunded commitments to third-party private equity funds of $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Also includes unfunded 
commitments for other equity investments of $897 million and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These commitments include $1.5 billion at Decem-

ber 31, 2009, related to investments that are generally fair valued at net asset value as discussed in Note 3 on pages 156Œ173 of this Annual Report. 
(g) Indemnifications for breaches of representations and warranties in loan sale and securitization agreements. For additional information, see Loan sale and securitization-
related indemnifications on page 241 of this Note. 
(h) For lending-related products the carrying value represents the allowance for lending-related commitments and the fair value of the guarantee liability, for derivative-related 
products the carrying value represents the fair value, and for all other products the carrying value represents the valuation reserve. 
 Other unfunded commitments to extend credit 
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit include commit-

ments to U.S. domestic states and municipalities, hospitals and 

other not-for-profit entities to provide funding for periodic tenders 
of their variable-rate demand bond obligations or commercial 
paper. Performance by the Firm is required in the event that the 

variable-rate demand bonds or commercial paper cannot be remar-

keted to new investors. The amount of commitments related to 

variable-rate demand bonds and commercial paper of U.S. domestic 

states and municipalities, hospitals and not-for-profit entities was 
$23.3 billion and $23.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
respectively. Similar commitments exist to extend credit in the form 

of liquidity facility agreements with nonconsolidated municipal 

bond VIEs. For further information, see Note 16 on pages 214Œ222 

of this Annual Report. 
Also included in other unfunded commitments to extend credit are 

commitments to investment- and noninvestment-grade counterpar-

ties in connection with leveraged acquisitions. These commitments 

are dependent on whether the acquisition by the borrower is suc-
cessful, tend to be short-term in nature and, in most cases, are 
subject to certain conditions based on the borrower™s financial 

condition or other factors. The amounts of commitments related to 

leveraged acquisitions at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $2.9 

billion and $3.6 billion, respectively. For further information, see 

Note 3 and Note 4 on pages 156Œ173 and 173Œ175 respectively, 

of this Annual Report. 
Guarantees 
The Firm considers the following offŒbalance sheet lending-related 

arrangements to be guarantees under U.S. GAAP: certain asset 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
240
 purchase agreements, standby letters of credit and financial guar-
antees, securities lending indemnifications, certain indemnification 

agreements included within third-party contractual arrangements 

and certain derivative contracts. The amount of the liability related 
to guarantees recorded at December 31, 2009 and 2008, excluding 
the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments and 

derivative contracts discussed below, was $475 million and $535 
million, respectively. 
 Asset purchase agreements 
Asset purchase agreements are principally used as a mechanism to 

provide liquidity to SPEs, predominantly multi-seller conduits, as 
described in Note 16 on pages 214Œ222 of this Annual Report. 
The carrying value of asset purchase agreements was $126 million 
and $147 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, 
which was classified in accounts payable and other liabilities on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets; the carrying values include $18 
million and $9 million, respectively, for the allowance for lending-

related commitments, and $108 million and $138 million, respec-
tively, for the fair value of the guarantee liability. 
Standby letters of credit  
Standby letters of credit (ﬁSBLCﬂ) and financial guarantees are 

conditional lending commitments issued by the Firm to guarantee 
the performance of a customer to a third party under certain ar-
rangements, such as commercial paper facilities, bond financings, 

acquisition financings, trade and similar transactions. The carrying 

values of standby and other letters of credit were $920 million and 

$673 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which 

was classified in accounts payable and other liabilities on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets; these carrying values include $553 
million and $276 million, respectively, for the allowance for lend-

ing-related commitments, and $367 million and $397 million, 

respectively, for the fair value of the guarantee liability.
 
The following table summarizes the type of facilities under which standby letters of credit and other letters of credit arrangements are out-

standing by the ratings profiles of the Firm™s customers as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The ratings scale represents the current status of 

the payment or performance risk of the guarantee, and is based on the Firm™s internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to ratings 
defined by S&P and Moody™s. 
 2009 
 2008 
December 31, (in millions)
 Standby letters  
of credit and other 
financial guarantees 
Other letters  
of credit 
   Standby letters  
   of credit and other 
    
 financial guarantees 
   Other letters 
      of credit(d)
  Investment-grade
(a)
  $ 66,786
  $ 3,861
  $ 73,394  $   3,772
Noninvestment-grade
(a)
   24,699
 1,306
   21,958 
  1,155
Total contractual amount
(b)
  $ 91,485
(c)
  $  5,167
  $ 95,352
(c)
  $  4,927
Allowance for lending-related commitments 
 $ 552
  $ 1
  $ 274  $         2
Commitments with collateral 
  31,454
 1,315
   30,972 
  1,000
(a) Ratings scale is based on the Firm™s internal ratings which generally correspond to ratings defined by S&P and Moody™s. 
(b) Represents the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $24.6 billion and $26.4 billion for standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $690 million and $1.1 billion for other letters of credit at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In regulatory  

filings with the Federal Reserve Board these commitments are shown gross of risk participations. 
(c)  Includes unissued standby letters of credit commitments of $38.4 billion and $39.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(d) The investment-grade and noninvestment-grade amounts have been revised from previous disclosures. 
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees  
In addition to the contracts described above, the Firm transacts certain 
derivative contracts that meet the characteristics of a guarantee under 

U.S. GAAP. These contracts include written put options that require the 

Firm to purchase assets upon exercise by the option holder at a speci-
fied price by a specified date in the future. The Firm may enter into 
written put option contracts in order to meet client needs, or for trading 

purposes. The terms of written put options are typically five years or 

less. Derivative guarantees also include contracts such as stable value 
derivatives that require the Firm to make a payment of the difference 
between the market value and the book value of a counterparty™s 

reference portfolio of assets in the event that market value is less than 

book value and certain other conditions have been met. Stable value 
derivatives, commonly referred to as ﬁstable value wrapsﬂ, are trans-
acted in order to allow investors to realize investment returns with less 

volatility than an unprotected portfolio and are typically longer-term or 

may have no stated maturity, but allow the Firm to terminate the 

contract under certain conditions.  
Derivative guarantees are recorded on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets at fair value in trading assets and trading liabilities. The total 

notional value of the derivatives that the Firm deems to be guaran-
tees was $87.2 billion and $83.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 
2008, respectively. The notional value generally represents the Firm™s 
maximum exposure to derivatives qualifying as guarantees, although 

exposure to certain stable value derivatives is contractually limited to 

a substantially lower percentage of the notional value. The fair value 
of the contracts reflects the probability of whether the Firm will be 
required to perform under the contract. The fair value related to 

derivative guarantees were derivative receivables of $219 million and 

$184 million and derivative payables of $981 million and $5.6 billion 
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Firm reduces 
exposures to these contracts by entering into offsetting transactions, 

or by entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related to the 
derivative guarantees. 
In addition to derivative contracts that meet the characteristics of a 
guarantee, the Firm is both a purchaser and seller of credit protection 
in the credit derivatives market. For a further discussion of credit 
derivatives, see Note 5 on pages 175Œ183 of this Annual Report. 
Securities lending indemnification 
 Through the Firm™s securities lending program, customers™ securi-
ties, via custodial and non-custodial arrangements, may be lent to 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
241
 third parties. As part of this program, the Firm provides an indemni-
fication in the lending agreements which protects the lender 

against the failure of the third-party borrower to return the lent 
securities in the event the Firm did not obtain sufficient collateral. 
To minimize its liability under these indemnification agreements, 

the Firm obtains cash or other highly liquid collateral with a market 

value exceeding 100% of the value of the securities on loan from 
the borrower. Collateral is marked to market daily to help assure 
that collateralization is adequate. Additional collateral is called 

from the borrower if a shortfall exists, or collateral may be released 

to the borrower in the event of overcollateralization. If a borrower 
defaults, the Firm would use the collateral held to purchase re-
placement securities in the market or to credit the lending customer 

with the cash equivalent thereof. Also, as part of this program, the 

Firm invests cash collateral received from the borrower in accor-

dance with approved guidelines.  
Indemnification agreements Œ general 
In connection with issuing securities to investors, the Firm may enter 

into contractual arrangements with third parties that require the Firm 

to make a payment to them in the event of a change in tax law or an 
adverse interpretation of tax law. In certain cases, the contract also 
may include a termination clause, which would allow the Firm to 

settle the contract at its fair value in lieu of making a payment under 

the indemnification clause. The Firm may also enter into indemnifica-
tion clauses in connection with the licensing of software to clients 
(ﬁsoftware licenseesﬂ) or when it sells a business or assets to a third 

party (ﬁthird-party purchasersﬂ), pursuant to which it indemnifies 

software licensees for claims of liability or damages that may occur 
subsequent to the licensing of the software, or third-party purchasers 
for losses they may incur due to actions taken by the Firm prior to the 

sale of the business or assets. It is difficult to estimate the Firm™s 

maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements, since 
this would require an assessment of future changes in tax law and 
future claims that may be made against the Firm that have not yet 

occurred. However, based on historical experience, management 
expects the risk of loss to be remote.  
Loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications 
Indemnifications for breaches of representations and warranties 
As part of the Firm™s loan sale and securitization activities, as  
described in Note 13 and Note 15 on pages 200Œ204 and 206Œ

213, respectively, of this Annual Report, the Firm generally makes  
representations and warranties in its loan sale and securitization 
agreements that the loans sold meet certain requirements. These 

agreements may require the Firm (including in its roles as a servicer) 

to repurchase the loans and/or indemnify the purchaser of the loans 
against losses due to any breaches of such representations or 
warranties. Generally, the maximum amount of future payments 

the Firm would be required to make for breaches under these 

representations and warranties would be equal to the unpaid 
principal balance of such loans held by purchasers, including securi-
tization-related SPEs, that are deemed to have defects plus, in 

certain circumstances, accrued and unpaid interest on such loans 
and certain expense. 
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Firm had recorded repur-
chase liabilities of $1.7 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.  The 
repurchase liabilities are intended to reflect the likelihood that 
JPMorgan Chase will have to perform under these representations 
and warranties and is based on information available at the report-

ing date.  The estimate incorporates both presented demands and 

probable future demands and is the product of an estimated cure 
rate, an estimated loss severity and an estimated recovery rate from 
third parties, where applicable.  The liabilities have been reported 

net of probable recoveries from third-parties and predominately as 

a reduction of mortgage fees and related income.  During 2009, 
the Firm settled certain current and future claims for certain loans 
originated and sold by Washington Mutual Bank.   
Loans sold with recourse 
The Firm provides servicing for mortgages and certain commercial 
lending products on both a recourse and nonrecourse basis. In nonre-
course servicing, the principal credit risk to the Firm is the cost of 
temporary servicing advances of funds (i.e., normal servicing ad-

vances). In recourse servicing, the servicer agrees to share credit risk 

with the owner of the mortgage loans, such as Fannie Mae or Freddie 
Mac or a private investor, insurer or guarantor. Losses on recourse 
servicing predominantly occur when foreclosure sales proceeds of the 

property underlying a defaulted loan are less than the sum of the 

outstanding principal balance, plus accrued interest on the loan and 
the cost of holding and disposing of the underlying property. The 
Firm™s securitizations are predominantly nonrecourse, thereby effec-

tively transferring the risk of future credit losses to the purchaser of 

the mortgage-backed securities issued by the trust. At December 31, 
2009 and 2008, the unpaid principal balance of loans sold with 
recourse totaled $13.5 billion and $15.0 billion, respectively. The 

carrying value of the related liability that the Firm has recorded, which 

is representative of the Firm™s view of the likelihood it will have to 
perform under this guarantee, was $271 million and $241 million at 
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
Credit card charge-backs  
Prior to November 1, 2008, the Firm was a partner with one of the 

leading companies in electronic payment services in a joint venture 
operating under the name of Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC (the 
ﬁjoint ventureﬂ). The joint venture was formed in October 2005, as a 

result of an agreement by the Firm and First Data Corporation, its 

joint venture partner, to integrate the companies™ jointly owned 
Chase Merchant Services and Paymentech merchant businesses. The 
joint venture provided merchant processing services in the United 

States and Canada. The dissolution of the joint venture was com-

pleted on November 1, 2008, and JPMorgan Chase retained ap-

proximately 51% of the business under the Chase Paymentech name.  
Under the rules of Visa USA, Inc., and MasterCard International, 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., is liable primarily for the amount of 
each processed credit card sales transaction that is the subject of a 

dispute between a cardmember and a merchant. If a dispute is 

resolved in the cardmember™s favor, Chase Paymentech will 
(through the cardmember™s issuing bank) credit or refund the 
amount to the cardmember and will charge back the transaction to 

the merchant. If Chase Paymentech is unable to collect the amount 

from the merchant, Chase Paymentech will bear the loss for the 
amount credited or refunded to the cardmember. Chase Paymen-
tech mitigates this risk by withholding future settlements, retaining 

cash reserve accounts or by obtaining other security. However, in 

the unlikely event that: (1) a merchant ceases operations and is 
unable to deliver products, services or a refund; (2) Chase Paymen-
tech does not have sufficient collateral from the merchant to pro-

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
242
 vide customer refunds; and (3) Chase Paymentech does not have 
sufficient financial resources to provide customer refunds, JPMor-

gan Chase Bank, N.A., would be liable for the amount of the 
transaction. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Chase Pay-
mentech incurred aggregate credit losses of $11 million on $409.7 

billion of aggregate volume processed, and at December 31, 2009, 

it held $213 million of collateral. For the year ended December 31, 
2008, Chase Paymentech incurred aggregate credit losses of $13 
million on $713.9 billion of aggregate volume processed, and at 

December 31, 2008, it held $222 million of collateral. The Firm 

believes that, based on historical experience and the collateral held 
by Chase Paymentech, the fair value of the Firm™s charge back-
related obligations, which are representative of the payment or 
performance risk to the Firm is immaterial. 
Credit card association, exchange and clearinghouse  
guarantees 
The Firm holds an equity interest in VISA Inc. During October 2007, 
certain VISA-related entities completed a series of restructuring 

transactions to combine their operations, including VISA USA, 

under one holding company, VISA Inc. Upon the restructuring, the 
Firm™s membership interest in VISA USA was converted into an 
equity interest in VISA Inc. VISA Inc. sold shares via an initial public 

offering and used a portion of the proceeds from the offering to 

redeem a portion of the Firm™s equity interest in Visa Inc. Prior to 
the restructuring, VISA USA™s by-laws obligated the Firm upon 
demand by VISA USA to indemnify VISA USA for, among other 

things, litigation obligations of Visa USA. The accounting for that 

guarantee was not subject to initial recognition at fair value. Upon 
the restructuring event, the Firm™s obligation to indemnify Visa Inc. 
was limited to certain identified litigations. Such a limitation is 

deemed a modification of the indemnity by-law and, accordingly, 

became subject to initial recognition at fair value. The value of the 
litigation guarantee has been recorded in the Firm™s financial 
statements based on its then fair value; the net amount recorded 

(within other liabilities) did not have a material adverse effect on 

the Firm™s financial statements. In addition to Visa, the Firm is a 
member of other associations, including several securities and 
futures exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the United States 

and other countries. Membership in some of these organizations 

requires the Firm to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by 
the organization as a result of the default of another member. Such 
obligations vary with different organizations. These obligations may 

be limited to members who dealt with the defaulting member or to 

the amount (or a multiple of the amount) of the Firm™s contribution 
to a member™s guarantee fund, or, in a few cases, the obligation 
may be unlimited.  It is difficult to estimate the Firm™s maximum 

exposure under these membership agreements, since this would 

require an assessment of future claims that may be made against 
the Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based on historical 
experience, management expects the risk of loss to be remote. 
Residual value guarantee 
In connection with the Bear Stearns merger, the Firm succeeded to 

an operating lease arrangement for the building located at 383 
Madison Avenue in New York City (the ﬁSynthetic Leaseﬂ). Under 
the terms of the Synthetic Lease, the Firm is obligated to make 

periodic payments based on the lessor™s underlying interest costs. 

The Synthetic Lease expires on November 1, 2010. Under the terms 
of the Synthetic Lease, the Firm has the right to purchase the 
building for the amount of the then outstanding indebtedness of 

the lessor, or to arrange for the sale of the building, with the pro-

ceeds of the sale to be used to satisfy the lessor™s debt obligation. If 
the sale does not generate sufficient proceeds to satisfy the lessor™s 
debt obligation, the Firm is required to fund the shortfall, up to a 

maximum residual value guarantee. As of December 31, 2009, 

there was no expected shortfall and the maximum residual value 
guarantee was approximately $670 million.  
Note 32 Œ Credit risk concentrations 
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of
 customers are 
engaged in similar business activities or activities in the same 
geographic region, or when they have similar economic features 
that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be 
similarly affected by changes in economic conditions.
 JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments o
f its credit 
portfolio to assess potential concentration risks and to obtain collat-
eral when deemed necessary. Senior management is significantly 
involved in the credit approval and review process, and risk levels are 
adjusted as needed to reflect management™s risk tolerance. 
In the Firm™s wholesale portfolio, risk concentrations are evaluated 
primarily by industry and geographic region, and monitored regu-
larly on both an aggregate portfolio level and on an individual 
customer basis. Management of the Firm™s wholesale exposure is 

accomplished through loan syndication and participation, loan 

sales, securitizations, credit derivatives, use of master netting 
agreements, and collateral and other risk-reduction techniques. In 
the consumer portfolio, concentrations are evaluated primarily by 

product and by U.S. geographic region, with a key focus on trends 

and concentrations at the portfolio level, where potential risk 
concentrations can be remedied through changes in underwriting 
policies and portfolio guidelines. 
The Firm does not believe that its exposure to any particular loan 
product (e.g., option ARMs), portfolio segment (e.g., commercial 

real estate) or its exposure to residential real estate loans with high 

loan-to-value ratios results in a significant concentration of credit 
risk. Terms of loan products and collateral coverage are included in 
the Firm™s assessment when extending credit and establishing its 

allowance for loan losses. 
For further information regarding onŒbalance sheet credit concen-
trations by major product and geography, see Note 13 on pages 
200Œ204 of this Annual Report. For information regarding concen-

trations of offŒbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments 

by major product, see Note 31 on pages 238Œ242 of this Annual 
Report. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
243
 The table below presents both onŒbalance sheet and offŒbalance sheet wholesale- and consumer-related credit exposure as of December 31, 
2009 and 2008.
   2009
    2008
   On-balance sheet 
  On-balance sheet  
December 31, (in millions) 
Credit 
  exposure Loans Derivatives 
Off-balance 
sheet (d) 
 Credit 
 exposure Loans Derivatives 
Off-balance
    sheet(d) 
Wholesale-related
(a)
:  
        Real estate 
 $ 68,509  $ 57,195  $ 1,112  $ 10,202 
 $ 80,284  $ 64,510  $ 2,021  $ 13,753
 Banks and finance companies 
  54,053   14,396   17,957   21,700 
  75,577   19,055   33,457   23,065
 Healthcare 
  35,605   4,992   1,917   28,696 
  38,032   7,004   3,723   27,305
 State and municipal governments 
  34,726   5,687   4,979   24,060 
  36,772   5,882   10,191   20,699
 Utilities 
  27,178   5,451   3,073   18,654 
  34,246   9,184   4,664   20,398
 Consumer products 
  27,004   7,880   1,094   18,030 
  29,766   10,081   2,225   17,460
 Asset managers 
  24,920   5,930   6,640   12,350 
  49,256   9,640   18,806   20,810
 Oil and gas 
  23,322   5,895   2,309   15,118 
  24,746   8,796   2,220   13,730
 Retail & consumer services 
  20,673   5,611   769   14,293 
  23,223   7,597   1,537   14,089
 Holding companies 
  16,018   4,360   1,042   10,616 
  14,466   6,247   2,846   5,373
 Technology 
  14,169   3,802   1,409   8,958 
  17,025   4,965   1,340   10,720
 Insurance 
  13,421   1,292   2,511   9,618 
  17,744   1,942   5,494   10,308
 Machinery and equipment  
  manufacturing 
  12,759   3,189   456   9,114 
  14,501   4,642   943   8,916
 Metals/mining  
  12,547   3,410   1,158   7,979 
  14,980   6,470   1,991   6,519
 Media 
  12,379   4,173   329   7,877 
  13,177   6,486   480   6,211
 Telecom services 
  11,265   2,042   1,273   7,950 
  13,237   3,828   1,298   8,111
 Securities firms and exchanges 
  10,832   3,457   4,796   2,579 
  25,590   6,360   14,111   5,119
 Business services 
  10,667   3,627   397   6,643 
  11,247   3,677   757   6,813
 Building materials/construction 
  10,448   3,252   281   6,915 
  12,065   4,625   613   6,827
 Chemicals/plastics 
  9,870   2,719   392   6,759 
  11,719   3,745   1,201   6,773
 Transportation 
  9,749   3,141   1,238   5,370 
  10,253   3,904   1,651   4,698
 Central government 
  9,557   1,703   5,501   2,353 
  14,441   545   9,773   4,123
 Automotive 
  9,357   2,510   357   6,490 
  11,448   3,746   1,111   6,591
 Leisure 
  6,822   2,718   353   3,751 
  8,158   4,051   659   3,448
 Agriculture/paper manufacturing 
  5,801   1,928   251   3,622 
  6,920   2,593   653   3,674
 All other 
  135,791   39,717   18,616   77,458 
  181,713   38,514   38,861   104,338
 Loans held-for-sale and loans at  
fair value 
  4,098   4,098   Š   Š 
  13,955   13,955   Š   Š
 Receivables from customers
(b)
   15,745   Š   Š   Š 
  16,141   Š   Š   Š
 Interests in purchased receivables 
  2,927   Š   Š   Š 
  Š   Š   Š   Š
     Total wholesale-related
   650,212   204,175   80,210   347,155 
  820,682   262,044   162,626   379,871
 Consumer-related excluding  
   purchased credit-impaired  
   loans: 
        Home equity Œ senior lien 
  46,622   27,376   Š   19,246 
  57,791   29,793   Š   27,998
 Home equity Œ junior lien 
  111,280   74,049   Š   37,231 
  152,287   84,542   Š   67,745
 Prime mortgage 
  68,546   66,892   Š   1,654 
  77,345   72,266   Š   5,079
 Subprime mortgage  
  12,526   12,526   Š   Š 
  15,330   15,330   Š   Š
 Option ARMs 
  8,536   8,536   Š   Š 
  9,018   9,018   Š   Š
 Auto loans  
  51,498   46,031   Š   5,467 
  47,329   42,603   Š   4,726
 Credit card Œ reported
(c)
   647,899   78,786   Š   569,113 
  728,448   104,746   Š   623,702
 All other loans 
  42,929   31,700   Š   11,229 
  45,972   33,715   Š   12,257
 Loans held-for-sale 
  2,142   2,142   Š   Š 
  2,028   2,028   Š   Š
 Total consumerŒrelated exclu
d-
ing purchased credit-impaired 
loans
   991,978   348,038   Š   643,940 
  1,135,548   394,041   Š   741,507
 Consumer-related purchased  

   credit-impaired loans 
     
    Home equity 
  26,520   26,520   Š   Š 
  28,555   28,555   Š   
ŠPrime mortgage 
  19,693   19,693   Š   Š 
  21,855   21,855   Š   
ŠSubprime mortgage  
  5,993   5,993   Š   Š 
  6,760   6,760   Š   
ŠOption ARMs 
  29,039   29,039   Š   Š 
  31,643   31,643   Š   
ŠTotal consumer-related  
   purchased credit-impaired  
   loans 
  81,245   81,245   Š   Š 
  88,813   88,813   Š   
ŠTotal consumer
   1,073,223   429,283   Š   643,940 
  1,224,361   482,854   Š   741,507
 Total exposure
 $ 1,723,435  $  633,458  $ 80,210  $ 991,095 
 $ 2,045,043  $  744,898   $ 162,626   $ 1,121,378
 (a) During the fourth quarter of 2009, certain industry classifications were modified to better reflect risk correlations and enhance the Firm's management of industry risk.  
Prior periods have been revised to reflect the current presentation. 
(b) Primarily represents margin loans to prime and retail brokerage customers which are included in accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(c) Excludes $84.6 billion and $85.6 billion of securitized credit card receivables at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
(d) Represents lending-related financial instruments. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
244
 Note 33 Œ International operations  
The following table presents income statementŒrelate
d information 
for JPMorgan Chase by major international geographic area. The 
Firm defines international activities as business transactions that 

involve customers residing outside of the U.S., and the information 

presented below is based primarily upon the domicile of the cus-

tomer, the location from which the customer relationship is man-

aged or the location of the trading desk. However, many of the 

Firm™s U.S. operations serve international businesses. 
As the Firm™s operations are highly integrated, estimates and sub-

jective assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and 

expense between U.S. and international operations. These esti-

mates and assumptions are consistent with the allocations used for 

the Firm™s segment reporting as set forth in Note 34 on pages 245Œ

247 of this Annual Report.  
The Firm™s long-lived assets for the periods presented are not 
considered by management to be significant in relation to total 

assets. The majority of the Firm™s long-lived assets are located in 

the United States. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
   Revenue
(a)
    Expense
(b)
 Income before income 
tax expense/(benefit) 
and extraordinary gain         Net income 
2009
     
Europe/Middle East and Africa 
 $ 16,915 
 $ 8,610 
 $ 8,290 
 $   5,485
Asia and Pacific 
5,088 
3,438 
1,646 
1,119
Latin America and the Caribbean 
1,982 
1,112 
861 
513
Other 
659 
499 
160 
105
   Total international
 24,644 
13,659 
10,957 
7,222
Total U.S. 
75,790 
70,708 
5,110 
4,506
Total
  
 $ 100,434 
 $ 84,367 
 $ 16,067 
 $ 11,728
2008
    
Europe/Middle East and Africa 
 $ 11,449 
 $ 8,403 
 $ 3,046 
 $    2,483
Asia and Pacific 
  4,097 
3,580 
517 
672
Latin America and the Caribbean 
  1,353 
903 
450 
274
Other 
  499 
410 
89 
21
   Total international
   17,398 
13,296 
4,102 
3,450
Total U.S. 
  49,854 
51,183 
(1,329) 
2,155
Total
  
 $ 67,252 
 $ 64,479 
 $ 2,773 
 $    5,605
2007
    Europe/Middle East and Africa 
 $ 12,070 
 $ 8,445 
 $ 3,625 
 $    2,585
Asia and Pacific 
  4,730 
3,117 
1,613 
945
Latin America and the Caribbean 
  2,028 
975 
1,053 
630
Other 
  407 
289 
118 
79
   
Total international
   19,235 
12,826 
6,409 
4,239
Total U.S. 
  52,137 
35,741 
16,396 
11,126
Total 
  $ 71,372 
 $ 48,567 
 $ 22,805 
 $  15,365
(a) Revenue is composed of net interest income and noninterest revenue.  
(b) Expense is composed of noninterest expense and the provision for credit losses. 
  JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
245
 Note 34 Œ Business segments 
The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis. The
re are six major 
reportable business segments Š Investment Bank, Retail Financial 
Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Ser-
vices and Asset Management, as well as a Corporate/Private Equity 

segment. The business segments are determined based on the products 

and services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the 
manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by manage-
ment. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed 

basis. For a definition of managed basis, see Explanation and Reconcilia-

tion of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measures, on pages 58Œ60 
of this Annual Report. For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan 
Chase™s business segments, see Business segment results on pages 61Œ
62 of this Annual Report.  
The following is a description of each of the Firm™s business segments:  
 Investment Bank 
 J.P. Morgan is one of the world™s leading investment banks, with 
deep client relationships and broad product capabilities. The clients 
of the Investment Bank (ﬁIBﬂ) are corporations, financial institu-
tions, governments and institutional investors. The Firm offers a full 

range of investment banking products and services in all major 

capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and 
structure, capital-raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated 
risk management, market-making in cash securities and derivative 

instruments, prime brokerage, and research. IB also commits the 

Firm™s own capital to principal investing and trading activities on a 

limited basis.  
Retail Financial Services 
 Retail Financial Services (ﬁRFSﬂ), which includes the Retail Banking 
and Consumer Lending businesses, serves consumers and busi-

nesses through personal service at bank branches and through 
ATMs, online banking and telephone banking as well as through 
auto dealerships and school financial-aid offices. Customers can 

use more than 5,100 bank branches (third-largest nationally) and 

15,400 ATMs (second-largest nationally), as well as online and 
mobile banking around the clock. More than 23,900 branch sales-
people assist customers with checking and savings accounts, mort-

gages, home equity and business loans, and investments across the 

23-state footprint from New York and Florida to California. Con-
sumers also can obtain loans through 15,700 auto dealerships and 
nearly 2,100 schools and universities nationwide.
 Card Services  
Card Services is one of the nation™s largest credit card issuers, with 

more than 145 million credit cards in circulation and over $163 

billion in managed loans. Customers used Chase cards to meet 

more than $328 billion of their spending needs in 2009.  
Chase continues to innovate, despite a very difficult business envi-
ronment, launching new products and services such as Blueprint, 

Ultimate Rewards, Chase Sapphire and Ink from Chase, and earn-

ing a market leadership position in building loyalty and rewards 

programs. Through its merchant acquiring business, Chase Paymen-

tech Solutions, Chase is one of the leading processors of credit-card 

payments. 
Commercial Banking 
 Commercial Banking serves nearly 25,000 clients nationally, including 
corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profit 
entities with annual revenue generally ranging from $10 million to $2 
billion, and more than 30,000 real estate investors/owners. Delivering 

extensive industry knowledge, local expertise and dedicated service, 

CB partners with the Firm™s other businesses to provide comprehen-
sive solutions, including lending, treasury services, investment bank-
ing and asset management to meet its clients™ domestic and 
international financial needs.  
Treasury & Securities Services 
 Treasury & Securities Services (ﬁTSSﬂ) is a global leader in transac-
tion, investment and information services. TSS is one of the world™s 
largest cash management providers and a leading global custodian. 

Treasury Services (ﬁTSﬂ) provides cash management, trade, whole-

sale card and liquidity products and services to small and mid-sized 
companies, multinational corporations, financial institutions and 
government entities. TS partners with the Commercial Banking, 

Retail Financial Services and Asset Management businesses to 

serve clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenue is included in 
other segments™ results. Worldwide Securities Services holds, val-
ues, clears and services securities, cash and alternative investments 

for investors and broker-dealers, and it manages depositary receipt 

programs globally.  
Asset Management 
 AM, with assets under supervision of $1.7 trillion, is a global leader 
in investment and wealth management. AM clients include institu-

tions, retail investors and high-net-worth individuals in every major 
market throughout the world. AM offers global investment man-
agement in equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private 

equity and liquidity, including money market instruments and bank 

deposits. AM also provides trust and estate, banking and brokerage 
services to high-net-worth clients, and retirement services for 
corporations and individuals. The majority of AM™s client assets are 
in actively managed portfolios. 
Corporate/Private Equity 
The Corporate/Private Equity sector comprises Private Equity, 

Treasury, the Chief Investment Office, corporate staff units and 

expense that is centrally managed. Treasury and the Chief Invest-

ment Office manage capital, liquidity, interest rate and foreign 

exchange risk and the investment portfolio for the Firm. The corpo-

rate staff units include Central Technology and Operations, Internal 

Audit, Executive Office, Finance, Human Resources, Marketing & 

Communications, Legal & Compliance, Corporate Real Estate and 

General Services, Risk Management, Corporate Responsibility and 

Strategy & Development. Other centrally managed expense includes 

the Firm™s occupancy and pension-related expense, net of alloca-

tions to the business.  
Line of business equity increased during the second quarter of 2008 in 
IB and AM due to the Bear Stearns merger and for AM, the purchase of 
the additional equity interest in Highbridge. At the end of the third 

quarter of 2008, equity was increased for each line of business with a 

view toward the future implementation of the new Basel II capital 
rules. In addition, equity allocated to RFS, CS and CB was increased as 
a result of the Washington Mutual transaction. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
246
 Segment results 
The following table provides a summary of the Firm™s segment results for 2009, 2008 and 2007 on a managed basis. The impacts of credit card securi-

tizations and tax-equivalent adjustments have been included in Reconciling items so that the total Firm results are on a reported basis. 
  Segment results and reconciliation
(a)
    
(table continued on next page) 
Year ended December 31, 
Investment  
Bank 
 Retail Financial  
Services 
 Card  
Services 
     Commercial  
     Banking  
(in millions, except ratios) 
      2009 
 2008  2007 
 2009 
 2008  2007 
 2009 
 2008  2007 
 2009 
 2008  2007
  Noninterest revenue 
$   18,522
 $    2,051 $  14,215 
$ 12,200
 $  9,355 $   6,779 
$    2,920
 $    2,719 $    3,046 
$    1,817
 $   1,481  $  1,263
  Net interest income 
9,587
 10,284 4,076 
20,492
 14,165 10,526 
17,384
 13,755 12,189 
 3,903
 3,296  2,840
  Total net revenue
 28,109
 12,335 18,291 
32,692 
23,520 17,305 
20,304
 16,474 15,235 
 5,720
 4,777  4,103
  Provision for credit losses 
2,279
 2,015 654 
15,940
 9,905 2,610 
18,462
 10,059 5,711 
 1,454
 464  279
  Credit reimbursement 
   (to)/from TSS
(b)
 Š Š Š 
Š Š Š 
Š Š Š 
 Š
 Š  Š
  Noninterest expense
(c)
 15,401
 13,844 13,074 
16,748
 12,077 9,905 
5,381
 5,140 4,914 
 2,176
 1,946  1,958
  Income/(loss) before 
income tax expense/ 
(benefit) and  
extraordinary gain 10,429 
(3,524) 4,563 
4 
1,538 4,790 
(3,539) 
1,275 4,610 
 2,090 
2,367  1,866
  Income tax expense/(benefit)
 3,530
 (2,349) 1,424 
(93)
 658 1,865 
(1,314)
 495 1,691 
 819
 928  732
  Income/(loss) before  
   extraordinary gain
 6,899
 (1,175) 3,139 
97
 880 2,925 
(2,225)
 780 2,919 
 1,271
 1,439  1,134
  Extraordinary gain
(d)
  
Š Š Š 
Š Š Š 
Š Š Š 
 Š
 Š  Š
  Net income/(loss)
 $     6,899
 $   (1,175) $    3,139 
$        97
 $      880 $   2,925 
$   (2,225)
 $       780 $    2,919 
$    1,271
 $   1,439  $  1,134
  Average common equity 
$   33,000
 $  26,098 $  21,000 
$ 25,000
 $ 19,011 $ 16,000 
$  15,000
 $  14,326 $  14,100 
$    8,000
 $   7,251  $  6,502
  Average assets 
699,039
 832,729 700,565 
407,497
 304,442 241,112 
192,749
 173,711 155,957 
 135,408
 114,299  87,140
  Return on average equity 
     21%
 (5)%
 15% 
   Š%
 5% 18% 
(15)%
5%
 21%
  16%
 20%
  17
 % Overhead ratio 
55
 112 71 
51
 51 57 
27
 31 32 
 38
 41  48
  (a)
 In addition to analyzing the Firm™s results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm™s lines of business results on a ﬁmanaged basis,ﬂ which is a non-GAAP finan-
cial measure. The Firm™s definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications that do not have any impact  
on net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole. 
(b) In the second quarter of 2009, IB began reporting credit reimbursement from TSS as a component of total net revenue, whereas TSS continues to report its credit reim-
bursement to IB as a separate line item on its income statement (not part of net revenue). Reconciling items include an adjustment to offset IB™s inclusion of the credit  
reimbursement in total net revenue. Prior periods have been revised for IB and Reconciling items to reflect this presentation.  
(c) 
Includes merger costs, which are reported in the Corporate/Private Equity segment. Merger costs attributed to the business segments for 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows.
  Year ended December 31, (in millions)
  2009
  2008
  2007 
Investment Bank
  $ 27
  $ 183
  $    (2
 ) 
Retail Financial Services
 228
 90
 14
  Card Services
 40
 20
 (1
 ) 
Commercial Banking
 6 4 (1
 ) 
Treasury & Securities Services
 11
 Š 121
  Asset Management
 6 3 20
  Corporate/Private Equity
 163
 132
 58
   (d) On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual from the FDIC for $1.9 billion. The fair value of the net assets 
acquired exceeded the purchase price, which resulted in negative goodwill. In accordance with U.S. GAAP for business combinations, nonfinancial assets that are not 
held-for-sale, such as premises and equipment and other intangibles, acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction were written down against that negative goodwill. 

The negative goodwill that remained after writing down nonfinancial assets was recognized as an extraordinary gain.  
(e) Included a $1.5 billion charge to conform Washington Mutual™s loan loss reserve to JPMorgan Chase™s allowance methodology. 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
247
 (table continued from previous page)
 Treasury & 
Securities Services  
Asset 
Management  Corporate/Private Equity  
Reconciling items
(g)(h)
  Total 
  2009 
 2008 
 2007 
 2009 
 2008  2007 
 2009 
 2008  2007 
 2009 
 2008  2007 
2009 
 2008  2007
$  4,747
  $  5,196 $   4,681 
$ 6,372
  $  6,066 $   7,475 
$ 2,771
 $      (278) $    5,056 
$  (67)
 $   1,883 $   2,451 
$  49,282
 $ 28,473 $    44,966
   2,597
 2,938 2,264 
1,593
 1,518 1,160 
 3,863
 347 (637) 
(8,267)
 (7,524) (6,012) 
51,152
  38,779 26,406
   7,344
 8,134 6,945 
7,965
 7,584 8,635 
 6,634
 69 4,419 
(8,334)
 (5,641) (3,561) 
100,434
  67,252 71,372
   55
 82 19 
188
 85 (18) 
 80
 1,981
(e)(f)
 (11) 
(6,443)
 (3,612) (2,380) 
32,015
  20,979 6,864
        
      
    (121)
 (121) (121) 
Š Š Š 
 Š
 Š Š 
121
 121 121 
Š  Š Š
   5,278
 5,223 4,580 
5,473
 5,298 5,515 
 1,895
 (28) 1,757 
Š Š Š 
52,352
  43,500 41,703
   
     
      
        
      
         
      
     1,890
  2,708 2,225 
2,304
 2,201 3,138 
 4,659
 (1,884) 2,673 
(1,770)
 (1,908) (1,060) 
16,067
  2,773 22,805
   664
  941 828 
874
 844 1,172 
 1,705
 (535) 788 
(1,770)
 (1,908) (1,060) 
4,415
  (926) 7,440
       
      
      1,226
  1,767 1,397 
1,430
 1,357 1,966 
 2,954
 (1,349) 1,885 
Š Š Š 
11,652
  3,699 15,365
   Š
  Š Š 
Š Š Š 
  76
 1,906 Š 
Š Š Š 
76
  1,906 Š
 $  1,226
  $  1,767 $   1,397 
$ 1,430
  $  1,357 $  1,966 
$  3,030
 $       557 $    1,885 
$ Š
  $        Š  $        Š 
$     11,728
 $ 5,605 $    15,365
 $  5,000
  $  3,751 $   3,000 
$ 7,000
  $  5,645 $  3,876 
$  52,903
 $  53,034 $  54,245 
$  Š
  $        Š  $        Š 
$  145,903
 $ 129,116 $  118,723
 35,963
  54,563 53,350 
 60,249
 65,550 51,882 
 575,529
 323,227 231,818 
(82,233)
 (76,904) (66,780) 
2,024,201
  1,791,617 1,455,044
   25%
 47% 47% 
        20%
 24%
 51%
 NM NM NM 
  NM
 NM NM 
6%
  4%
(i)
 13
 %   72 
 64  66 
69
 70 64 
NM NM NM 
NM NM NM 
      52
  65 58
  (f) In November 2008, the Firm transferred $5.8 billion of higher quality credit card loans from the legacy Chase portfolio to a securitization trust previously established by 
Washington Mutual (ﬁthe Trustﬂ). As a result of converting higher credit quality Chase-originated on-book receivables to the Trust™s seller™s interest which has a higher overall 
loss rate reflective of the total assets within the Trust, approximately $400 million of incremental provision for credit losses was recorded during the fourth quarter of 2008. 
This incremental provision for credit losses was recorded in the Corporate/Private Equity segment as the action related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual™s banking op-
erations. For further discussion of credit card securitizations, see Note 15 on page 208 of this Annual Report. 
(g) Managed results for credit card exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, provision for credit losses and average assets, as JPMorgan Chase treats 
the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance sheet in evaluating the credit performance of the entire managed credit card portfolio as operations are funded, and 

decisions are made about allocating resources such as employees and capital, based on managed information. These adjustments are eliminated in reconciling items to arrive 

at the Firm™s reported U.S. GAAP results. The related securitization adjustments were as follows. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
2009 
2008  
2007
  Noninterest revenue 
  $ (1,494)
   $ (3,333) 
 $  (3,255
 ) 
Net interest income 
  7,937
   6,945   5,635
  Provision for credit losses 
  6,443
   3,612   2,380
  Average assets 
  82,233
   76,904   66,780
  (h)
 Segment managed results reflect revenue on a tax-equivalent basis with the corresponding income tax impact recorded within income tax expense/(benefit). The adjust-
ments are eliminated in reconciling items to arrive at the Firm™s reported U.S. GAAP results. Tax-equivalent adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 
2007 were as follows.  
Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
  2009 
 2008 
2007
Noninterest revenue 
   $  1,440 
  $  1,329 
 $   683
Net interest income 
   330 
   579 
 377
Income tax expense 
   1,770 
   1,908 
 1,060
(i)
 Ratio is based on net income.  
 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
248
 Note 35 Œ Parent company 
Parent company Œ statements of income
 Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
 2009 
 2008  2007
  Income 
    Dividends from subsidiaries: 
 Bank and bank holding company  
$ 15,235
   $  3,085
 $  5,834
    Nonbank
(a)
  1,036
   1,687
   2,463
  Interest income from subsidiaries 
 1,501
   4,539
   5,082
  Other interest income 
 266
   212
   263
  Other income from subsidiaries, 
primarily fees: 
  
      Bank and bank holding company 
 233
   244
   182
      Nonbank  
 742
   95
   960
  Other income/(loss) 
 844
   (1,038)
   (131
 ) 
Total income
  19,857
   8,824
  14,653
  Expense
   
  Interest expense to subsidiaries
(a)
  1,118
   1,302
   1,239
  Other interest expense 
 4,696
   6,879
   6,427
  Compensation expense 
 574
   43
   125
  Other noninterest expense 
 414
   732
   329
  Total expense
  6,802
   8,956
   8,120
  Income/(loss) before income tax benefit 
 and undistributed net income of 
subsidiaries 
  13,055
   (132)
   6,533
  Income tax benefit 
 1,269
   2,582
   589
  Equity in undistributed net income of 
subsidiaries 
 (2,596)
   3,155
   8,243
  Net income
  $ 11,728
   $  5,605
 $ 15,365
   Parent company Œ balance sheets
   
December 31, (in millions) 
    2009
  2008
 Assets
   
Cash and due from banks 
$ 102
  $ 35
 Deposits with banking subsidiaries 
 87,893
   60,551
 Trading assets 
 14,808
   12,487
 Available-for-sale securities  
 2,647
   1,587
 Loans 
 1,316
   1,525
 Advances to, and receivables from, subsidiaries:  
 Bank and bank holding company 
 54,152
   33,293
 Nonbank 
 81,365
   131,032
 Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries:   
 Bank and bank holding company 
 157,412
   153,140
 Nonbank
(a)
  32,547
   27,968
 Goodwill and other intangibles 
 1,104
   1,616
 Other assets 
 14,793
   12,934
 Total assets
 $ 448,139
 $  436,168
 Liabilities and stockholders™ equity
  
 Borrowings from, and payables to, subsidiaries
(a)
 $ 39,532
 $    44,467
 Other borrowed funds, primarily commercial 
paper 
 41,454
   39,560
 Other liabilities 
 8,035
   9,363
 Long-term debt
(b)
  193,753
   175,894
 Total liabilities
  282,774
   269,284
 Total stockholders™ equity 
 165,365
   166,884
 Total liabilities and stockholders™ equity
 $ 448,139
 $  436,168
  Parent company Œ statements of cash flows
 Year ended December 31, (in millions) 
 2009 
2008    2007 
Operating activities
    
 Net income 
$ 
 11,728
 $ 5,605  $  15,365 
Less: Net income of subsidiaries
(a)
   13,675
   7,927  16,540 
Parent company net loss
   (1,947)
   (2,322)  (1,175) 
Add: Cash dividends from subsidiaries
(a)
   16,054
   4,648  8,061 
Other, net 
  1,852
   1,920  3,496 
Net cash provided by operating 
activities
   15,959
   4,246  10,382 
Investing activities
    
Net change in: 
  
    Deposits with banking subsidiaries 
(27,342)
   (7,579) (34,213) 
Available-for-sale securities: 
  
 Purchases 
  (1,454)
   (1,475)  (104) 
Proceeds from sales and maturities  
  522
   Š  318 
Loans, net 
  209
   (102)  (452) 
Advances to subsidiaries, net 
  28,808
   (82,725)  (24,553) 
Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries, net
(a)
   (6,582)
   (26,212)  (4,135) 
Net cash used in investing activities
   (5,839)
   (118,093)  (63,139) 
Financing activities
    
Net change in borrowings from  
subsidiaries
(a)
   (4,935)
   20,529  4,755 
Net change in other borrowed funds 
  1,894
   (12,880)  31,429 
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term 
debt 
  32,304
    50,013  38,986 
Proceeds from the assumption of  
subsidiaries long-term debt
(c)
   15,264
    39,778  Š 
Repayments of long-term debt 
(31,964)
 (22,972)  (11,662) 
Proceeds from issuance of common stock 
  5,756
   11,500  Š 
Excess tax benefits related to stock-based 
compensation  
  17
   148  365 
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock 
and Warrant to the U.S. Treasury 
  Š 
  25,000  Š 
Proceeds from issuance of preferred 
stock
(d)
   Š 
  8,098  Š 
Redemption of preferred stock issued to 
the U.S. Treasury  
(25,000)
   Š  Š 
Repurchases of treasury stock 
  Š
   Š  (8,178) 
Dividends paid 
  (3,422)
   (5,911)  (5,051) 
All other financing activities, net 
  33 
  469  1,467 
Net cash provided by financing 
activities
 (10,053)
   113,772  52,111 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and due 
from banks 
  67
   (75)  (646) 
Cash and due from banks at the  
beginning of the year, primarily with 
bank subsidiaries 
  35
   110  756 
Cash and due from banks at the end 
of the
 year, primarily with bank 
subsidiaries 
$ 102 
$ 35 $ 110 
Cash interest paid 
$ 5,629
 $ 7,485    $ 7,470 
Cash income taxes paid 
  3,124
   156     5,074 
(a) Subsidiaries include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (ﬁissuer trustsﬂ). The Parent received dividends of $14 million, $15 million and $18 million 
from the issuer trusts in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For further discussion on these issuer trusts, see Note 22 on page 229 of this Annual Report. 
(b) At December 31, 2009, long-term debt that contractually matures in 2010 through 2014 totaled $30.2 billion, $38.3 billion, $41.7 billion, $15.1 billion and $19.2 
billion, respectively. 
(c) Represents the assumption of Bear Stearns long-term debt by JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
(d) 2008 included the conversion of Bear Stearns™ preferred stock into JPMorgan Chase preferred stock. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
249
 Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited) 
As of or for the period ended 
 2009 
   
2008 
(in millions, except per-share, ratio and headcount data)
       4th   3rd   2nd       1st        4th    3rd    2nd            1st
Selected income statement data
   
       Noninterest revenue 
 $ 10,786  $ 13,885  $ 12,953 $ 11,658 
$ 3,394 $  5,743 $ 10,105 $ 9,231
  Net interest income 
 12,378
  12,737  12,670  13,367 
13,832 8,994  8,294  7,659
  Total net revenue 
 23,164
  26,622  25,623  25,025 
17,226 14,737  18,399  16,890
  Total noninterest expense 
 12,004
  13,455  13,520  13,373 
11,255 11,137  12,177  8,931
  Pre-provision profit (a) 
 11,160
  13,167  12,103  11,652 
5,971 3,600  6,222  7,959
  Provision for credit losses 
 7,284
  8,104  8,031   8,596 
7,755 3,811  3,455  4,424
  Provision for credit losses Œ accounting conformity (b) 
 Š
  Š  Š  Š 
(442) 1,976  Š  Š
  Income/(loss) before income tax expense/(benefit) and  
extraordinary gain 
 3,876
  5,063  4,072  3,056 
(1,342) (2,187)  2,767  3,535
  Income tax expense/(benefit)  
 598
  1,551  1,351  915 
(719) (2,133)  764  1,162
  Income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
 3,278
  3,512  2,721  2,141 
(623) (54)  2,003  2,373
  Extraordinary gain (c) 
 Š
  76  Š  Š 
1,325 581  Š  Š
  Net income 
  $ 3,278
  $ 3,588  $ 2,721 $ 2,141 
$ 702 $ 527 $ 2,003 $ 2,373
  Per-common-share data
       
   Basic earnings 
(d)
      
   Income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
 $ 0.75
  $ 0.80  $ 0.28 $ 0.40 
$ (0.29) $  (0.08) $ 0.54 $ 0.67
 Net income 
 0.75
  0.82  0.28  0.40 
 0.06  0.09  0.54  0.67
 Diluted earnings 
(d)(e)
         Income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
 $ 0.74
  $ 0.80  $ 0.28 $ 0.40 
$ (0.29) $ (0.08) $ 0.53 $ 0.67
 Net income 
 0.74
  0.82
  0.28  0.40 
 0.06  0.09  0.53  0.67
 Cash dividends declared per share 
 0.05
  0.05
  0.05  0.05 
 0.38  0.38  0.38  0.38
 Book value per share 
 39.88
  39.12
  37.36  36.78 
 36.15  36.95  37.02  36.94
 Common shares outstanding
          Average:  Basic 
 3,946.1  3,937.9
  3,811.5    3,755.7  
 3,737.5  3,444.6  3,426.2  3,396.0
   Diluted (d) 
 3,974.1
  3,962.0
  3,824.1  3,758.7 
 3,737.5(h)
        3,444.6(h)
  3,453.1  3,423.3
 Common shares at period-end  
 3,942.0
  3,938.7
  3,924.1  3,757.7 
 3,732.8  3,726.9  3,435.7  3,400.8
 Share price 
     
    
 High 
 $ 47.47
  $ 46.50
  $  38.94 $ 31.64 
$ 50.63  $ 49.00 $ 49.95 $ 49.29
 Low 
 40.04
  31.59
  25.29  14.96 
 19.69  29.24  33.96  36.01
 Close 
 41.67
  43.82
  34.11  26.58 
 31.53  46.70  34.31  42.95
 Market capitalization 
 164,261
  172,596
  133,852  99,881 
  117,695  174,048  117,881  146,066
 Financial ratios
     
     Return on common equity: (e) 
         Income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
8%
 9%
 3%
 5%
 (3)%
 (1)%
 6%
 8%
 Net income 
 8
  9  3
  5
  1  1  6  8
 Return on tangible common equity  
        Income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
 12
  13
  5
  8
 (5)      (1)  10  13
 Net income 
 12
  14
  5
  8
  1  2  10  13
 Return on assets: 
         Income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
 0.65
  0.70
  0.54
  0.42
  (0.11)  (0.01)  0.48  0.61
 Net income 
 0.65
  0.71
  0.54
  0.42
  0.13  0.12  0.48  0.61
 Tier 1 capital ratio 
 11.1
  10.2
  9.7
  11.4
  10.9  8.9  9.2  8.3
 Total capital ratio 
 14.8
  13.9
  13.3
  15.2
  14.8  12.6  13.4  12.5
 Tier 1 leverage ratio 
 6.9
  6.5
  6.2
  7.1
  6.9  7.2  6.4  5.9
 Tier 1 common capital ratio (f) 
 8.8
  8.2
  7.7
  7.3
  7.0  6.8  7.1  6.9
 Overhead ratio 
 52
  51
  53
  53
  65  76  66  53
 Selected balance sheet data (period-end)
  
        Trading assets 
 $ 411,128
  $  424,435
 $   395,626
 $ 429,700
   $ 509,983 $ 520,257 $ 531,997 $ 485,280
 Securities 
 360,390
  372,867
  345,563
  333,861
  205,943  150,779  119,173  101,647
 Loans 
 633,458
  653,144
  680,601
  708,243
  744,898  761,381  538,029  537,056
 Total assets 
 2,031,989
  2,041,009
  2,026,642
  2,079,188
  2,175,052  2,251,469  1,775,670  1,642,862
 Deposits 
 938,367
  867,977
  866,477
  906,969
  1,009,277  969,783  722,905  761,626
 Long-term debt 
 266,318
  272,124
  271,939
  261,845
  270,683  255,432  277,455  205,367
 Common stockholders™ equity 
 157,213  154,101 
 146,614 
 138,201 
 134,945  137,691  127,176  125,627
 Total stockholders™ equity 
 165,365
  162,253
  154,766
  170,194
  166,884  145,843  133,176  125,627
 Headcount
  222,316
  220,861
  220,255
  219,569
  224,961  228,452  195,594  182,166
 Credit quality metrics 
         Allowance for credit losses 
 $ 32,541  $ 31,454 $ 29,818 $ 28,019 
  $ 23,823 $ 19,765 $ 13,932 $ 12,601
 Allowance for loan losses to total retained loans 
     
       5.04%
  4.74%
    4.33%
  3.95%
    
3.18%
  2.56%
  2.57%
  2.29%
 Allowance for loan losses to retained loans excluding  
purchased credit-impaired loans (g) 
 5.51  5.28  5.01  4.53 
 3.62  2.87  2.57  2.29
 Nonperforming assets 
 $ 19,741  $ 20,362 $ 17,517 $ 14,654 
  $ 12,714 $    9,520 $ 6,233 $ 5,143
 Net charge-offs 
 6,177  6,373  6,019  4,396 
 3,315  2,484  2,130  1,906
 Net charge-off rate 
     
       3.85%
  3.84%    3.52%
  2.51%
    1.80%
    1.91%
  1.67%
  1.53%
 Wholesale net charge-off rate 
 2.31  1.93  1.19  0.32 
 0.33  0.10  0.08  0.18
 Consumer net charge-off rate 
 4.60  4.79  4.69  3.61 
 2.59  3.13  2.77  2.43
 (a)  Pre-provision profit is total net revenue less noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to generate income in excess of its 
provision for credit losses.  
(b)  The third and fourth quarters of 2008 included an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual™s banking operations. 
(c) On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual. On May 30, 2008, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase merged with and into The Bear Stearns Companies, 
Inc. (ﬁBear Stearnsﬂ), and Bear Stearns became a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase. The Washington Mutual acquisition resulted in negative goodwill, and accordingly, the Firm recorded an extraordinary gain. 
For additional information of these transactions, see Note 2 on pages 151Œ156 of this Annual Report. 
(d)  Effective January 1, 2009, the Firm implemented new FASB guidance for participating securities. Accordingly, prior-period amounts have been revised as required. For further discussion of the Guidance, 
see Note 25 on page 232 of this Annual Report. 
(e)  The calculation of second-quarter 2009 earnings per share and net income applicable to common equity include a one-time, noncash reduction of $1.1 billion, or $0.27 per share, resulting from 
repayment of U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program (ﬁTARPﬂ) preferred capital. Excluding this reduction, the adjusted Return on common equity (ﬁROEﬂ) and Return on tangible common equity (ﬁROTCEﬂ) 
were 6% and 10% for second-quarter 2009. For further discussion, see ﬁExplanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measuresﬂ on page 58Œ60 of this Annual Report. 
(f)  Tier 1 common is calculated as Tier 1 capital less qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities and qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries. The Firm uses the Tier 1 common 
capital ratio, a non-GAAP financial measure, to assess and compare the quality and composition of the Firm™s capital with the capital of other financial services companies. For further discussion, see 
Regulatory capital on pages 90Œ92 of this Annual Report. 
(g)  Excludes the impact of home lending purchased credit-impaired loans and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust. For further discussion, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 123Œ125 
of this Annual Report.  
(h)  Common equivalent shares have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share for the third and fourth quarters of 2008, as the effect on income/(loss) before extraordinary gain 
would be antidilutive. 

 JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
250
 Selected annual financial data (unaudited) 
As of or for the year ended December 31,
        (in millions, except per-share, headcount and ratio data)
,     2009 
            2008(d)      2007 
      2006 
     2005
  Selected income statement data
       
Noninterest revenue 
 $ 49,282
 $ 28,473   $ 44,966 $ 40,757 
$    34,693
  Net interest income 
  51,152
   38,779   26,406 
21,242 
19,555
  Total net revenue 
  100,434
   67,252   71,372 
61,999 
54,248
  Total noninterest expense 
  52,352
   43,500   41,703 
38,843 
38,926
  Pre-provision profit (a) 
  48,082
   23,752   29,669 
23,156 
15,322
  Provision for credit losses 
  32,015
   19,445   6,864 
3,270 
3,483
  Provision for credit losses Œ accounting conformity (b) 
  Š 
  1,534   Š 
Š Š  Income from continuing operations before income tax expense/  
(benefit) and extraordinary gain 
  16,067
   2,773   22,805 
19,886 
11,839
  Income tax expense/(benefit) 
  4,415
   (926)   7,440 
6,237 
3,585
  Income from continuing operations 
  11,652
   3,699   15,365 
13,649 
8,254
  Income from discontinued operations (c) 
  Š
   Š   Š 
795 
229
  Income before extraordinary gain 
  11,652
   3,699   15,365 
14,444 
8,483
  Extraordinary gain (d)  
  76
   1,906   Š 
Š Š  Net income
  
 $ 11,728
 $ 5,605  $ 15,365  $ 14,444 
$      8,483
  Per-common-share data 
      Basic earnings 
(e) 
    
      Income from continuing operations  
 $ 2.25
 $ 0.81   $ 4.38  $ 3.83 $        2.30
      Net income 
 2.27
  1.35  4.38  4.05 
2.37
  Diluted earnings 
(e)(f) 
          Income from continuing operations  
 $  2.24
 $  0.81   $ 4.33  $ 3.78 $        2.29
      Net income 
  2.26
   1.35  4.33  4.00 
2.35
  Cash dividends declared per share 
  0.20
   1.52  1.48  1.36 
1.36
  Book value per share 
  39.88
   36.15  36.59  33.45 
30.71
  Common shares outstanding
       Average: Basic (e)  
  3,862.8
   3,501.1  3,403.6  3,470.1 
3,491.7
    Diluted (e)  
  3,879.7
   3,521.8  3,445.3  3,516.1 
3,511.9
  Common shares at period-end 
  3,942.0
   3,732.8  3,367.4  3,461.7 
3,486.7
  Share price 
       High  
 $ 47.47
 $ 50.63   $ 53.25  $ 49.00 $      40.56
  Low 
  14.96
   19.69  40.15  37.88 
32.92
  Close 
  41.67
   31.53  43.65  48.30 
39.69
  Market capitalization 
  164,261
   117,695 
146,986 
167,199 
138,387
  Financial ratios
       Return on common equity: (f) 
          Income from continuing operations  
6%
  2% 
13% 
12% 
8 % 
    Net income 
6 4 
13 
13 
8  Return on tangible common equity (f)(g) 
          Income from continuing operations  
10
 4 
22 
24 
15
      Net income 
10
 6 
22 
24 
15
  Return on assets: 
          Income from continuing operations  
 0.58
  0.21  1.06  1.04 
0.70
      Net income 
 0.58
  0.31  1.06  1.10 
0.72
  Tier 1 capital ratio 
 11.1
  10.9  8.4  8.7 
8.5
  Total capital ratio 
 14.8
  14.8  12.6  12.3 
12.0
  Tier 1 leverage ratio 
 6.9
  6.9  6.0  6.2 
6.3
  Tier 1 common capital ratio (h) 
8.8
  7.0  7.0  7.3 
7.0
  Overhead ratio 
52
 65 
58 
63 
72
  Selected balance sheet data (period-end)
   
    Trading assets 
 $ 411,128
  $ 509,983  $ 491,409  $ 365,738 
$  298,377
  Securities 
360,390
 205,943 
85,450 
91,975 
47,600
  Loans 
633,458
 744,898 
519,374 
483,127 
419,148
  Total assets 
2,031,989
  2,175,052   1,562,147   1,351,520 
1,198,942
  Deposits 
938,367
 1,009,277 
740,728 
638,788 
554,991
  Long-term debt 
266,318
 270,683 
199,010 
145,630 
119,886
  Common stockholders™ equity 
157,213 
134,945 
123,221 
115,790 
107,072
  Total stockholders™ equity 
165,365 
166,884 
123,221 
115,790 
107,211
  Headcount
 222,316
 224,961 
180,667 
174,360 
168,847
  Credit quality metrics 
      Allowance for credit losses 
 $ 32,541
  $ 23,823   $ 10,084  $ 7,803 
$      7,490
  Allowance for loan losses to total retained loans 
 5.04%
    3.18%  1.88%  1.70% 
1.84
 % 
Allowance for loan losses to retained loans excluding purchased 
credit-impaired loans (i) 
 5.51
   3.62    1.88    1.70 
 1.84
  Nonperforming assets 
 19,741
 12,714  3,933 
2,341 
2,590
  Net charge-offs 
 $ 22,965
  $ 9,835   $ 4,538  $ 3,042 
$      3,819
  Net charge-off rate 
 3.42% 
 1.73%   1.00%  0.73% 
   1.00
 % 
Wholesale net charge-off/(recovery) rate 
 1.40
  0.18  0.04   (0.01) 
(0.06
 ) Consumer net charge-off rate 
 4.41
  2.71  1.61   1.17 
1.56
  (a) Pre-provision profit is total net revenue less noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a lending institution to generate income  
in excess of its provision for credit losses.  
(b)  Results for 2008 included an accounting conformity loan loss reserve provision related to the acquisition of Washington Mutual Bank™s banking operations. 
(c) On October 1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase & Co. completed the exchange of selected corporate trust businesses for the consumer, business banking and middle-market banking businesses of The Bank 
of New York Company Inc. The results of operations of these corporate trust businesses are reported as discontinued operations for each of the periods presented. 
(d) On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual. On May 30, 2008, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase merged with and into Bear Stearns and Bear 
Stearns became a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase. The Washington Mutual acquisition resulted in negative goodwill, and accordingly, the Firm recorded an extraordinary gain. For addi-
tional information on these transactions, see Note 2 on pages 151-156 of this Annual Report. 
(e) Effective January 1, 2009, the Firm implemented new FASB guidance for participating securities. Accordingly, prior-period amounts have been revised as required. For further discussion of the 
guidance, see Note 25 on page 232 of this Annual Report. 
(f) The calculation of 2009 earnings per share and net income applicable to common equity include a one-time, noncash reduction of $1.1 billion, or $0.27 per share, resulting from repayment of 
TARP preferred capital in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding this reduction, the adjusted ROE and ROTCE were 7% and 11% for 2009. For further discussion, see ﬁExplanation and reconcilia-

tion of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measuresﬂ on pages 58Œ60 of this Annual Report.  
(g) For a further discussion of ROTCE, a non-GAAP financial measure, see ﬁExplanation and reconciliation of the Firm™s use of non-GAAP financial measuresﬂ on page 58Œ60 of this Annual Report. 
(h) Tier 1 common is calculated as Tier 1 capital less qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities and qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries. The Firm uses the Tier 1 
common capital ratio, a non-GAAP financial measure, to assess and compare the quality and composition of the Firm™s capital with the capital of other financial services companies. For further dis-

cussion, see Regulatory capital on pages 90Œ92 of this Annual Report. 
(i)  Excludes the impact of home lending purchased credit-impaired loans and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust. For further discussion, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 123Œ125 
of this Annual Report.  

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
251
 ACH:
 Automated Clearing House. 
Advised lines of credit:
 An authorization which specifies the 
maximum amount of a credit facility the Firm has made available to 
an obligor on a revolving but non-binding basis. The borrower 

receives written or oral advice of this facility. The Firm may cancel 

this facility at any time. 
AICPA: 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. 
Alternative assets:
 The following types of assets constitute 
alternative investments Œ hedge funds, currency, real estate and 
private equity. 
Assets under management:
 Represent assets actively managed 
by Asset Management on behalf of Institutional, Retail, Private 
Banking, Private Wealth Management and Bear Stearns Private 

Client Services clients.  Includes Committed Capital not Called, on 

which we earn fees.  Excludes assets managed by American Cen-

tury Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 42% ownership 
interest as of December 31, 2009. 
Assets under supervision:
 Represent assets under management 
as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts. 
Average managed assets:
 Refers to total assets on the Firm™s 
Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card receivables that have 
been securitized and removed from the Firm™s Consolidated Bal-

ance Sheets. 
Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs: 
Represents 
the interest of third-party holders of debt/equity securities, or other 
obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates. The 

underlying obligations of the VIEs consist of short-term borrowings, 

commercial paper and long-term debt. The related assets consist of 

trading assets, available-for-sale securities, loans and other assets.
 Benefit obligation: 
Refers to the projected benefit obligation for 
pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obliga-

tion for OPEB plans. 
Combined effective loan-to-value ratio: 
For residential real 
estate loans, an indicator of how much equity a borrower has in a 
secured borrowing based on current estimates of the value of the 

collateral and considering all lien positions related to the property.
 Contractual credit card charge-off:
 In accordance with the 
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy, credit card 

loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account 

becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notifi-

cation about a specific event (e.g., bankruptcy of the borrower), 

whichever is earlier. 
Credit card securitizations:
 Card Services™ managed results 
excludes the impact of credit card securitizations on total net reve-
nue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receiv-

ables. Through securitization, the Firm transforms a portion of its 

credit card receivables into securities, which are sold to investors. 

The credit card receivables are removed from the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets through the transfer of the receivables to a trust, 

and through the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle 
the investors to specific cash flows generated from the credit card 

receivables. The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests as 

seller™s interests, which are recorded in loans on the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets. A gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables 

to investors is recorded in other income. Securitization also affects 

the Firm™s Consolidated Statements of Income, as the aggregate 

amount of interest income, certain fee revenue and recoveries that 

is in excess of the aggregate amount of interest paid to investors, 

gross credit losses and other trust expense related to the securitized 

receivables are reclassified into credit card income in the Consoli-

dated Statements of Income.  
Credit derivatives:
 Contractual agreements that provide protec-
tion against a credit event on one or more referenced credits. The 
nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer and 

protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events 

include bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to meet payment obliga-

tions when due. The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic 

fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occur-

rence, if any, of a credit event.  
Credit cycle:
 A period of time over which credit quality improves, 
deteriorates and then improves again. The duration of a credit cycle 
can vary from a couple of years to several years. 
Deposit margin: 
Represents net interest income expressed as a 
percentage of average deposits. 

Discontinued operations: 
A component of an entity that is 
classified as held-for-sale or that has been disposed of from ongo-
ing operations in its entirety or piecemeal, and for which the entity 

will not have any significant, continuing involvement. A discontin-

ued operation may be a separate major business segment, a com-

ponent of a major business segment or a geographical area of 

operations of the entity that can be separately distinguished opera-

tionally and for financial reporting purposes.
  
EITF: 
Emerging Issues Task Force.
  
FASB:
 Financial Accounting Standards Board.  
FICO: 
Fair Isaac Corporation.
  
Forward points:
 Represents the interest rate differential between 
two currencies, which is either added to or subtracted from the 
current exchange rate (i.e., ﬁspot rateﬂ) to determine the forward 

exchange rate. 
Headcount-related expense:
 Includes salary and benefits (ex-
cluding performance-based incentives), and other noncompensation 
costs related to employees. 
Interchange income:
 A fee that is paid to a credit card issuer in 
the clearing and settlement of a sales or cash advance transaction. 
Interests in purchased receivables:
 Represents an ownership 
interest in cash flows of an underlying pool of receivables trans-
ferred by a third-party seller into a bankruptcy-remote entity, gen-

erally a trust. 

JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
252
 Investment-grade:
 An indication of credit quality based on 
JPMorgan Chase™s internal risk assessment system. ﬁInvestment 
gradeﬂ generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a 

ﬁBBB-ﬂ/ﬂBaa3ﬂ or better, as defined by independent rating 

agencies.  
Managed basis: 
A non-GAAP presentation of financial results 
that includes reclassifications related to credit card securitizations 
and to present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Man-

agement uses this non-GAAP financial measure at the segment 

level because it believes this provides information to enable inves-

tors to understand the underlying operational performance and 

trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a compari-

son of the business segment with the performance of competitors.
  
Managed credit card receivables: 
Refers to credit card receiv-
ables on the Firm™s Consolidated Balance Sheets plus credit card 

receivables that have been securitized and removed from the Firm™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 Mark-to-market exposure:
 A measure, at a point in time, of the 
value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open 
market. When the mark-to-market value is positive, it indicates the 

counterparty owes JPMorgan Chase and, therefore, creates a 

repayment risk for the Firm. When the mark-to-market value is 

negative, JPMorgan Chase owes the counterparty; in this situation, 

the Firm does not have repayment risk.  
Master netting agreement:
 An agreement between two coun-
terparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each other 
that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single 

payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or termina-

tion of any one contract. 
Mortgage product types:
 Alt-A
 Alt-A loans are generally higher in credit quality than subprime 
loans but have characteristics that would disqualify the borrower 

from a traditional prime loan. Alt-A lending characteristics may 

include one or more of the following: (i) limited documentation; 

(ii) high combined-loan-to-value (ﬁCLTVﬂ) ratio; (iii) loans se-

cured by non-owner occupied properties; or (iv) debt-to-income 

ratio above normal limits. Perhaps the most important character-

istic is limited documentation. A substantial proportion of tradi-

tional Alt-A loans are those where a borrower does not provide 

complete documentation of his or her assets or the amount or 

source of his or her income.  
Option ARMs
 The option ARM residential real estate loan product is an adjustable-

rate mortgage loan that provides the borrower with the option each 

month to make a fully amortizing, interest-only, or minimum pay-

ment. The minimum payment on an option ARM loan is based on the 

interest rate charged during the introductory period. This introductory 
rate has usually been significantly below the fully indexed rate. The 

fully indexed rate is calculated using an index rate plus a margin. 

Once the introductory period ends, the contractual interest rate 

charged on the loan increases to the fully indexed rate and adjusts 

monthly to reflect movements in the index. The minimum payment is 

typically insufficient to cover interest accrued in the prior month, and 

any unpaid interest is deferred and added to the principal balance of 

the loan.  
Prime
 Prime mortgage loans generally have low default risk and are made 

to borrowers with good credit records and a monthly income that is 

at least three to four times greater than their monthly housing 

expense (mortgage payments plus taxes and other debt payments). 

These borrowers provide full documentation and generally have 

reliable payment histories. 
Subprime
 Subprime loans are designed for customers with one or more high 

risk characteristics, including but not limited to: (i) unreliable or 

poor payment histories; (ii) high loan-to-value (ﬁLTVﬂ) ratio of 

greater than 80% (without borrower-paid mortgage insurance); (iii) 

high debt-to-income ratio; (iv) the occupancy type for the loan is 

other than the borrower™s primary residence; or (v) a history of 

delinquencies or late payments on the loan. 
MSR risk management revenue: 
Includes changes in MSR asset 
fair value due to inputs or assumptions in model and derivative 
valuation adjustments.
 NA:
 Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.  
Net yield on interest-earning assets:
 The average rate for 
interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of 
funds.  
NM:
 Not meaningful.  
Nonconforming mortgage loans: 
Mortgage loans that do not 
meet the requirements for sale to U.S. government agencies and 
U.S. government sponsored enterprises. These requirements include 

limits on loan-to-value ratios, loan terms, loan amounts, down 

payments, borrower credit worthiness and other requirements.
 OPEB: 
Other postretirement employee benefits.
  
Overhead ratio: 
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net 
revenue.  
Personal bankers: 
Retail branch office personnel who acquire, 
retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by 
assessing customer needs and recommending and selling appropri-

ate banking products and services.  
Portfolio activity: 
Describes changes to the risk profile of existing 
lending-related exposures and their impact on the allowance for 
credit losses from changes in customer profiles and inputs used to 

estimate the allowances. 
 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report 
253
 Principal transactions:
 Realized and unrealized gains and losses 
from trading activities (including physical commodities inventories 
that are accounted for at the lower of cost or fair value) and 

changes in fair value associated with financial instruments held by 

the Investment Bank for which the fair value option was elected. 

Principal transactions revenue also include private equity gains and 

losses. 
Purchased credit-impaired loans: 
Acquired loans deemed to be 
credit-impaired under the FASB guidance for purchased credit-
impaired loans. The guidance allows purchasers to aggregate 

credit-impaired loans acquired in the same fiscal quarter into one or 

more pools, provided that the loans have common risk characteris-

tics (e.g., FICO score, geographic location). A pool is then ac-

counted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate 

and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. Wholesale loans were 

determined to be credit-impaired if they meet the definition of an 

impaired loan under U.S. GAAP at the acquisition date. Consumer 

loans are determined to be purchased credit-impaired based on 

specific risk characteristics of the loan, including product type, loan-

to-value ratios, FICO scores, and past due status.  
Receivables from customers: 
Primarily represents margin loans 
to prime and retail brokerage customers which are included in 
accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets for the wholesale lines of business.
 Reported basis: 
Financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP. 
The reported basis includes the impact of credit card securitizations 
but excludes the impact of taxable-equivalent adjustments. 
 Seed capital:
 Initial JPMorgan capital invested in products, such 
as mutual funds, with the intention of ensuring the fund is of 

sufficient size to represent a viable offering to clients, enabling 

pricing of its shares, and allowing the manager to develop a com-

mercially attractive track record. After these goals are achieved, the 

intent is to remove the Firm™s capital from the investment.  
Stress testing:
 A scenario that measures market risk under 
unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets.  
Unaudited: 
Financial statements and information that have not 
been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to permit an 
independent certified public accountant to express an opinion. 
 U.S. GAAP:
 Accounting principles generally accepted in the United 
States of America. 

U.S. government and federal agency obligations:
 Obliga-
tions of the U.S. government or an instrumentality of the U.S. 
government whose obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed 

as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith 

and credit of the U.S. government. 
U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations:
 Obliga-
tions of agencies originally established or chartered by the U.S. 
government to serve public purposes as specified by the U.S. Con-

gress; these obligations are not explicitly guaranteed as to the 

timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit 

of the U.S. government. 
Value-at-risk (ﬁVaRﬂ): 
A measure of the dollar amount of poten-
tial loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market envi-
ronment. 
  254JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
Hon. George P. Shultz*
Chairman of the CouncilDistinguished Fellow
Hoover Institution
Stanford University
Stanford, California
Riley P. Bechtel
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerBechtel Group, Inc.

San Francisco, California
Jean-Louis Beffa
Chairman
Compagnie de Saint-Gobain
Paris-La Défense, FranceThe Rt Hon. Tony Blair*
Chairman of the Council Elect
Quartet Representative and 
 
Former Prime Minister of Great 

Britain and Northern Ireland
London, United Kingdom Hon. Bill BradleyFormer U.S. SenatorAllen & Company, LLC

New York, New York
Michael A. ChaneyChairman
National Australia Bank Limited
Perth, Western Australia
Anatoly B. ChubaisDirector General

Russian Corporation of 
Nanotechnologies Œ Rusnano
Moscow, Russian Federation
André DesmaraisChairman and 
Co-Chief Executive Of˜cer
Power Corporation of Canada
Montreal, Canada
Martin FeldsteinProfessor of Economics

Harvard University

Cambridge, MassachusettsArminio Fraga NetoFounding Partner
Gavea Investimentos, Ltd.
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 
Xi-Qing GaoVice Chairman, President and 

Chief Investment Of˜cer
China Investment Corporation
Beijing, People™s Republic of China
Jürgen Grossmann
Chief Executive Of˜cer
RWE AG

Essen, GermanyWilliam B. Harrison, Jr.
Former Chairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Carla A. HillsChairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
Hills & Company
Washington, D.C.
Franz B. HumerChairman
Roche Holding Ltd.
Basel, SwitzerlandAbdallah S. Jum™ahFormer President

Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Dhahran, Saudi ArabiaHon. Henry A. KissingerChairman
Kissinger Associates, Inc.
New York, New York
Mustafa V. Koç
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Koç Holding A.S¸
   
.Istanbul, Turkey
Hon. Lee Kuan Yew
Minister Mentor
Republic of Singapore

Singapore
Minoru MakiharaSenior Corporate Advisor and 
Former Chairman
Mitsubishi Corporation
Tokyo, Japan
David J. O™ReillyChairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
Chevron Corporation

San Ramon, California
Michael Pram RasmussenChairman of the Board

A.P. Møller-Maersk Group

Copenhagen, DenmarkSir John RoseChief Executive
Rolls-Royce plc
London, United KingdomRatan Naval Tata
Chairman
Tata Sons Limited

Mumbai, IndiaMarco Tronchetti Provera
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
Pirelli & C. SpA

Milan, ItalyCees J.A. van LedeFormer Chairman, 
Board of Management

Akzo Nobel
Arnhem, The Netherlands
Douglas A. Warner III
Former Chairman of the Board

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

New York, New York
Ernesto Zedillo
Director

Yale Center for the Study of 

Globalization
New Haven, ConnecticutJaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
Ayala Corporation

Makati City, Philippines
Ex-Of˜cio MembersJames DimonChairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerJPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Andrew D. Crockett
President 

JPMorgan Chase International

San Francisco, California
William M. DaleyVice Chairman and 

Head of Corporate Responsibility
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chicago, IllinoisWalter A. Gubert
Vice Chairman

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chairman, JPMorgan Chase EMEA
London, United KingdomAs of December 31, 2009 * As of December 31, 2009, Hon.  George P. Shultz retired as Chairman 
from the Council, and as of January 1, 
2010, The Rt Hon. Tony Blair was 
 appointed incoming Chairman.J.P. Morgan International Council
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
255Richard A. Bernstein
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerR.A.B. Holdings, Inc.Rod BraymanPresident
Windmill Distributing Company L.P.
Robert B. CatellChairmanAdvanced Energy Research 
and Technology Center
Christopher B. CombeChairman and President
Combe IncorporatedJoseph J. CorasantiPresident and 
Chief Executive Of˜cerCONMED CorporationEmil DudaSenior Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Of˜cerLifetime Healthcare Company/
Excellus Health Plan Inc.Roger N. FarahPresident and Chief Operating 
Of˜cerPolo Ralph Lauren
James Fernandez
Executive Vice President and CFO
Tiffany & Co.
Rachelle FriedmanPresident and Co-CEO
J&R Music and Computer World
Neil GolubPresident and CEO
The Golub CorporationTod Johnson
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerThe NPD Group, Inc.
Richard W. Kunes
Executive Vice President, 
Chief Financial Of˜cerThe Estée Lauder Companies Inc.Richard S. LeFrak
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerLeFrak OrganizationRichard B. Leventhal
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerFedway Associates, Inc.John LiDestriChief Executive Of˜cerLiDestri Foods, Inc.Leo LiebowitzChief Executive Of˜cerGetty Realty Corp.William L. MackFounder and ChairmanAREA Property Partners
Peter MarksonChairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerParis Accessories, Inc.James F. McCann
Chief Executive Of˜cer1-800-Flowers.comJohn MorphySenior Vice President, 
Chief Financial Of˜cer and Secretary
Paychex, Inc.James L. NederlanderPresident
Nederlander Producing Company 
of America, Inc.Samuel I. Newhouse IIIGeneral ManagerAdvance Publications Inc.William C. RudinPresident
Rudin Management Company, Inc.
C. David SammonsPresident and CEO
Subaru Distributors Corp.John ShalamChairmanAudiovox CorporationJulie A. ShimerPresident and CEO
Welch Allyn
Scott A. SilversteinFormer President and COO
The Topps Company, Inc.
Kenneth L. Wallach
Chairman and CEOCentral National-Gottesman Inc.Fred Wilpon
ChairmanSterling Equities, Inc.Frank Lourenso 
Chairman Regional Advisory Board
Regional Advisory Board
256JPMorgan Chase & Co./2009 Annual Report
Crandall C. Bowles 1ChairmanSprings Industries, Inc.(Home furnishings)
Stephen B. Burke 2, 3
Chief Operating Of˜cer Comcast Corporation (Cable television)David M. Cote 4, 5
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer Honeywell International Inc.
(Diversi˜ed technology and manufacturing)James S. Crown 
4, 5
President
Henry Crown and Company 
(Diversi˜ed investments)James Dimon Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerJPMorgan Chase & Co.Ellen V. Futter 
4, 5
President and Trustee
American Museum of Natural History (Museum)William H. Gray, III 
1, 4
Co-ChairmanGrayLoef˚er, LLC
 (Consulting and advisory)Laban P. Jackson, Jr. 
1Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerClear Creek Properties, Inc.
(Real estate development)David C. Novak 2, 3
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cerYum! Brands, Inc.
(Franchised restaurants)
Lee R. Raymond 2, 3
Retired Chairman and 
Chief Executive Of˜cerExxon Mobil Corporation (Oil and gas)William C. Weldon 
2, 3
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer Johnson & Johnson(Health care products)
Board of DirectorsExecutive Committee   (*denotes member of Operating Committee)
James Dimon*
Chairman and  Chief Executive Of˜cerGaby A. AbdelnourAsia Paci˜cPeter K. BarkerCalifornia
Paul T. Bateman
Investment ManagementFrank J. Bisignano*
Chief Administrative Of˜cerSteven D. Black*
Vice Chairman
Philip F. Bleser
Commercial Banking
Douglas L. BraunsteinInvestment BankClive S. Brown
Investment ManagementPhyllis J. CampbellPaci˜c Northwest Richard M. Cashin
One Equity PartnersMichael J. Cavanagh*Chief Financial Of˜cerGuy Chiarello
Technology
Andrew D. Crockett
JPMorgan Chase International
Stephen M. Cutler*
Legal & ComplianceWilliam M. Daley*
Corporate ResponsibilityKimberly B. DavisPhilanthropy
Klaus DiederichsInvestment BankPhil Di IorioAsset ManagementJohn L. Donnelly*
Human Resources
Ina R. Drew*
Chief Investment Of˜cerAlthea L. DuerstenChief Investment Of˜ceMary Callahan Erdoes*
Asset ManagementJoseph M. EvangelistiCorporate CommunicationsDr. Jacob A. Frenkel
Investment BankMartha J. GalloAuditWalter A. Gubert
Europe, Middle East and Africa
Evelyn E. Guernsey
Investment ManagementCarlos M. Hernandez
Investment BankJohn J. HoganInvestment Bank/Risk ManagementCatherine M. KeatingAsset ManagementConrad J. KozakWorldwide Securities Services
James B. Lee, Jr.
Investment BankDavid B. LowmanHome LendingSamuel Todd Maclin*
Commercial Banking
Achilles O. MacrisChief Investment Of˜ceJay Mandelbaum*Strategy & MarketingBlythe S. MastersInvestment BankDonald H. McCree, III
FinanceHeidi Miller*
Treasury & Securities Services
Melissa J. Moore
Treasury Services
Stephanie B. MudickCorporate ResponsibilityNicholas P. O™Donohoe
Investment BankDaniel E. PintoInvestment BankScott E. PowellConsumer BankingLouis RauchenbergerController
Richard Sabo
Chief Investment Of˜ceEmilio SarachoInvestment BankCharles W. Scharf*
Retail Financial ServicesPeter L. ScherGlobal Government Relations & 
Public PolicyEileen M. SerraCard Services
Marc Sheinbaum
Auto & Education FinanceGordon A. Smith*
Card Services
James E. Staley*
Investment BankWilliam S. Wallace
Card Services
Kevin P. Watters
Business BankingDouglas Wurth
Asset ManagementMatthew E. ZamesInvestment BankBarry L. Zubrow*
Chief Risk Of˜cerOther Corporate O˜cersAnthony J. HoranSecretary
Norma C. CorioTreasurer
Lauren M. Tyler
Investor RelationsMember of:1 Audit Committee2 Compensation & Management   Development Committee3 Corporate Governance & 
  Nominating Committee4 Public Responsibility Committee5 Risk Policy CommitteeAs of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share, ratio and headcount data)
  2009  2008 Reported basis
(a)Net revenue 
 $ 100,434 $ 67,252Noninterest expense 
  52,352  43,500Pre-provision pro˜t 
  48,082   23,752 Provision for credit losses 
  32,015   20,979Income before extraordinary gain
  11,652  3,699Extraordinary gain
  76  1,906Net income
 $ 11,728 $ 5,605 Per common share:
Basic earnings per share
 Income before extraordinary gain
 $ 2.25 $ 0.81   
 Net income
  2.27  1.35Diluted earnings per share
 Income before extraordinary gain
 $ 2.24 $ 0.81 Net income
  2.26  1.35Cash dividends declared per share
  0.20  1.52Book value per share
  39.88  36.15Return on common equity
 Income before extraordinary gain
  6%  2 % Net income
  6  
4Return on tangible common equity 
(b) Income before extraordinary gain
  10%  4 % Net income
  10  
6Tier 1 capital ratio 
  11.1  10.9Total capital ratio 
  14.8  14.8Tier 1 common capital ratio 
(b)  8.8  7.0 Total assets 
 $  2,031,989  $ 2,175,052Loans 
  633,458   744,898Deposits   938,367  1,009,277 Total stockholders™ equity 
  165,365  166,884Headcount
  222,316  224,961 (a)  Results are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, 
  except where otherwise noted.
 (b) Non-GAAP ˜nancial measure. For further discussion see ﬁExplanation and reconciliation of the ˜rm™s use of 
  non-GAAP ˜nancial measuresﬂ and ﬁRegulatory capitalﬂ in this Annual Report.
Financial Highlights
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global ˜nancial services ˜rm with 
assets of $2.0 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The ˜rm is a leader in 
investment banking, ˜nancial services for consumers, small business and commercial 

banking, ˜nancial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. 
 
A component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, JPMorgan Chase serves millions 
 of consumers in the United States and many of the world™s most prominent corporate, 

institutional and government clients under its J.P. Morgan and Chase brands.
Information about J.P. Morgan capabilities can be found at www.jpmorgan.com and 
about Chase capabilities at www.chase.com. Information about the ˜rm is available 
 at www.jpmorganchase.com.
©2010 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved.
Printed in the U.S.A.
Corporate headquarters
270 Park Avenue
 New York, NY 10017-2070
 
Telephone: 212-270-6000
 
www.jpmorganchase.com
Principal subsidiariesJPMorgan Chase Bank, 
  National Association Chase Bank USA, 
  National Association J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 
Annual Report on Form 10-K
The Annual Report on Form 10-K of 
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. as ˜led with the 
 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
 
will be made available without charge 
 
upon request to:
O˚ce of the Secretary
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
 
270 Park Avenue
 
New York, NY 10017-2070
Stock listing
New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
 London Stock Exchange Group plc
 
Tokyo Stock Exchange
The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
 ticker symbol for the common stock 
 
of JPMorgan Chase & Co. is JPM.
Financial information about JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. can be accessed by visiting 
 
the Investor Relations web site at 
 
www.jpmorganchase.com. Additional 
 
questions should be addressed to:
Investor Relations
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
 
270 Park Avenue
 
New York, NY 10017-2070
 
Telephone: 212-270-6000
Directors
To contact any of the Board members or 
 committee chairs, the Presiding Director 
 
or the non-management directors as a 

group, please mail correspondence to:
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 Attention (Board member(s))
 
O˚ce of the Secretary
 
270 Park Avenue
 
New York, NY 10017-2070
The Corporate Governance Principles 
 of the Board, the charters of the principal 

Board committees, the Code of Conduct, 

the Code of Ethics for Finance Professionals 

and other governance information can 
 
be accessed by visiting our web site at 
 
www.jpmorganchase.com and clicking on 

ﬁGovernanceﬂ under the ﬁAbout usﬂ tab. 
Transfer agent and registrar
BNY Mellon 480 Washington Boulevard
 
Jersey City, NJ 07310-1900
 
Telephone: 800-758-4651
 
Web: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner/isd
Investor Services Program 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s Investor Services 
 Program o˛ers a variety of convenient, 
 
low-cost services to make it easier
 
to reinvest dividends and buy and 
 
sell shares of JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
 
common stock. A brochure and enroll-
 
ment materials may be obtained by 
 
contacting the Program Administrator, 
 
BNY Mellon, by calling 800-758-4651, 
 
by writing to the address indicated 
 
above or by visiting its web site at 
 www.bnymellon.com/shareowner/isd.
Direct deposit of dividends
For information about direct deposit of 
dividends, please contact BNY Mellon.
Stockholder inquiries
Contact BNY Mellon:
By telephone: Within the United States, Canada and 
  Puerto Rico: 800-758-4651
  (toll free)
From all other locations: 
  201-680-6578 (collect)
 TDD service for the hearing impaired 
  within the United States, Canada and 
  Puerto Rico: 800-231-5469 (toll free) 
 All other locations:   201-680-6610 (collect)
By mail:
BNY Mellon 480 Washington Boulevard
 
Jersey City, NJ 07310-1900
Duplicate mailings
If you receive duplicate mailings because 
 you have more than one account listing 
 
and you wish to consolidate your accounts, 

please write to BNY Mellon at the  
address above.
Independent registered public 
 accounting ˜rm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
 300 Madison Avenue
 
New York, NY 10017-6204
JPMorgan Chase & Co.As of the beginning of 2009, JPMorgan Chase has 
 distributed shareholder information under the 
 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ﬁNotice and 
 
Accessﬂ rule.  As a result, the ˜rm prints 600,000 
 
fewer Annual Reports and Proxy Statements, which 
 
saves on an annual basis approximately 5,500 trees 
 
and 700 metric tons of CO
2 emissions. This Annual Report is printed on paper made from 
 
well-managed forests and other controlled sources. 
 
The paper is independently certi˜ed by BVQI to the 
 
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) standards. The 
 
paper contains a minimum of 20% post-consumer 
 
waste recycled ˜bers.
THE WAY FOR
WARD˜˜˜Annual Report 2009RRD to adjust width of spine 40 page editorial (70lb) + 212 page ˜nancial section (27lb)
Adjust score to 3/8ﬂ from spine to align with artwork
Adjust width score to 3/8ﬂ from spine
JPMorgan Chase & Co.   2009 Annual Report
www.jpmorganchase.com
