22Dear Fellow Shareholders,
What a year. Despite tremendous challenges, your company earned $17.9 billion in 
net income on revenue of $96.6 billion in 2013. Our ˜nancial results re˚ected strong 
underlying performance across our four main businesses Š unfortunately marred by 
signi˜cant legal settlements largely related to mortgages. These legal expenses cost the 
company $8.6 billion after-tax. Excluding these expenses and some one-time positive 
bene˜ts from reserve reductions (which we never have considered true earnings) and 
one-time gains on the sale of assets, your company earned about $23 billion. 
As tough as the year was Š the company was under constant and intense pressure Š 
 I can hardly express the admiration, even pride, I feel because of the enduring resolve 
and resiliency of our management team and our employees. They never wavered as 
they attacked our problems while maintaining a relentless focus on serving our clients. 
We all owe them a great deal of gratitude. 
The bad news was bad. The most painful, di˛cult and nerve-wracking experience 
that I have ever dealt with professionally was trying to resolve the legal issues we 
had this past year with multiple government agencies and regulators as we tried to 
get many large and risky legal issues behind us, including the Chief Investment O˛ce 
(CIO) situation (that happened in 2012) and mortgage-related matters (that happened 
Jamie Dimon,  Chairman and 
 Chief Executive O˚cer
33primarily in 2005-2008, a signi˜cant portion of which occurred at heritage Bear 
Stearns and Washington Mutual (WaMu)). 
There is much to say and a lot to be learned in analyzing what happened, but I am not 
going to do so in this letter Š more distance and perspective are required. Su˛ce it to 
say, we thought the best option, perhaps the only sensible option Š for our company, 
our clients and our shareholders Š was to acknowledge our issues and settle as much 
as we could all at once, albeit at a high price. This allowed us to focus on what we are 
here for: serving our clients and communities around the world.
The good news is that our four franchises maintained Š and even strengthened Š our 
leadership positions as we continued to gain market share and improve customer 
satisfaction in every business.
When I look back at our company last year with all of our ups and downs, I see it as 
A Tale of Two Cities: 
ﬁIt was the best of times, it was the worst of times.ﬂ We came through 
it scarred but strengthened Š steadfast in our commitment to do the best we can. 
And we believe that we continued to deliver for our shareholders. For Bank One 
shareholders since March 27, 2000, the stock has performed far better than most 
˜nancial companies and the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500). And since the 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger with Bank One on July 1, 2004, we have performed well 
vs. other ˜nancial companies and slightly below the S&P 500. The details are shown in 
the tables on the following page. One of the tables also shows the growth in tangible 
book value per share, which we believe is a conservative measure of value. You can see 
that it has grown far more than the S&P 500 in both time periods. 
˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˙˜˚˚ˆ˜˚˚ˇ
˜˚˚˘˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
˜˛ˇ˝ˇˇ
˜˛ˆ˝˘
˜˚˚
˝
˝˛ˇ
˜ˆ˙
˝
˝

˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˙˜˚˚ˆ˜˚˚ˇ
˜˚˚˘

˜˛˛ˇ
˜˛ˇ˙ˆ
˜˚˛ˇ
˜˛˙˚
˜˘
˜˛˘˘˘˘
˜˘˝
˜˛
˜˚˝˚ˆ
˜˙ˆ
˜˘˝˘ˇ

˜˘
˜
˜ˇ˘ˇ
˜˚

’˜˚˛˝


’˜˚˛˝
‡
Earnings and Diluted Earnings per Share
 2005Œ2013
 ($ in millions, except diluted EPS)
 Tangible Book Value per Share
 2005Œ2013
 44Here™s what most of the headlines left out: JPMorgan Chase continued to serve our 
clients and make a signi˜cant positive impact on our communities. In 2013, the ˜rm 

provided credit and raised capital of more than $2.1 trillion for our clients
. The 
˜rm also has hired more than 6,300 military veterans since 2011 as a proud founding 

member of the 100,000 Jobs Mission, which now has increased the goal to 200,000 

jobs. Our ˜rm was there to help small businesses Š we 
provided $19 billion of credit 

to U.S. small businesses,
 which allowed them to develop new products, expand their 

operations and hire more workers. We also were there for families to buy their ˜rst 

home with a mortgage we made possible Š overall, we 
originated more than 800,000 

mortgages
 last year. In total, we 
provided $274 billion of credit to consumers
. Our 

strength allows us to be there for our clients and communities in good times Š and, 
 more important, in bad times. In this, we have never faltered. 
Stock and Book Value Performance
Stock Total Return Analysis
Bank OneS&P 500S&P Financials Index
Performance since becoming CEO of Bank One 
(3/26/2000Œ12/31/2013)(a):Compounded Annual Gain
10.4%3.3% 1.3%Overall Gain
289.8%57.3%19.3%JPMorgan Chase & Co.
S&P 500S&P Financials Index
Performance since the Bank One 

and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger

(7/1/2004Œ12/31/2013):Compounded Annual Gain (Loss)
7.2%7.4%(0.5)%Overall Gain (Loss)
94.1%97.5%(5.0)%These charts show actual returns of the stock, with dividends included, for heritage shareholders of Bank One and JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
vs. the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500) and the Standard & Poor™s Financials Index (S&P Financials Index).
(a) On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One
Bank One/JPMorgan Chase & Co. Tangible Book Value per Share Performance vs. S&P 500
Bank One(A)S&P 500 (B)Relative Results
(A) Š (B)Performance since becoming CEO of Bank One 
(3/26/2000Œ12/31/2013)(a):Compounded Annual Gain
12.9% 4.6% 8.3%Overall Gain
385.7%80.4%305.3%JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(A)S&P 500(B)Relative Results
(A) Š (B)Performance since the Bank One 

and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger

(7/1/2004Œ12/31/2013):Compounded Annual Gain
14.5%7.4%7.1%Overall Gain
261.9%97.5%164.4%Tangible book value over time captures the company™s use of capital, balance sheet and profitability. In this chart, we are looking at 
heritage Bank One shareholders and JPMorgan Chase & Co. shareholders. The chart shows the increase in tangible book value per share; 

it is an after-tax number assuming all dividends were retained vs. the S&P 500 (a pre-tax number with dividends reinvested).
(a) On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One
55˜˚˛˝˚˛˙ˆˇ˘˜
˘

˜˙˛˘˘
˜
˘

˘ˆ
ˆ‘˙‘ˇ

˘
˘•
˘
˘˜‘
—ˇ˙˛–˚ƒˇ˛–—ˇ˙˛˘˜‘ˇ
˜˚˛˝˜˛˙
ˆ˜ˇ˘
˜
ˆ˜˚˝˛˜ˇ˚
ˆ˜˚ˇ˚
ˆ˜˚

˜˚˛˝
˜˚˙˚
˜ˆˆˇˆ˜˚˙˙
ˆ˜˚˛˝ˆ˜˚˘˚ˆ
˜ˆ˘
˜˚˚˜˚˙
˜˛
˜˛
˜˛
˜˛
Our clients also exhibit their faith in us by entrusting us to take care of their money 
 Š either as deposits or as client assets entrusted to us Š as shown in the chart below.
New and Renewed Credit and Capital for Clients
at December 31
,Assets Entrusted to Us by Our Clients
at December 31,
Corporate Clients 
 ($ in trillions)Consumer and Commercial Banking 
 ($ in billions)˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˙˘˘˘


˙˘˘

†˚
ˇ˘‘˙˙˚ˇ˙
˜˚˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˝˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
˙


˙







˜
˜

˜˘˘
˘˘
˙˙
˜
(a)  Client assets include assets under management, 
custody, brokerage, administration accounts and all 
Chase Wealth Management assets not managed by 
Asset Management
(b)  Represents activities associated with the 
 safekeeping and servicing of assets
66In this letter, I will discuss the issues highlighted below. I also encourage you to read 
the letters written by several of our business leaders about our main businesses, our 
critical operations and controls, and some of our corporate responsibility e˝orts. 
As usual, this letter will describe some of our successes and opportunities, as well as 
our challenges and issues. The main sections of the letter are as follows: 
I. We face the future with a strong foundation and excellent franchises built to serve 
our clients 
II. We will dedicate extraordinary e˝ort in 2014 adapting to the new global ˜nancial 
architecture
III. We have made signi˜cant progress strengthening our company 
IV.
 We believe our long-term outlook is bright
77During 2014, most of the contours of the new 
and complex global ˜nancial architecture 
will be put in place. The changes are exten
-sive Œ and later in this letter, I will talk about 
just how extensive they are. All banks will 
have to adjust to the new rules, which will be 
harder for some than for others. Some may 
have to make drastic changes to their busi
-ness plan and strategies. So as we enter the 
year, we should take stock of where we stand. 
We have consistently shown good ˜nancial 
performance and maintained our fortress 
balance sheet
All of our businesses have had good Œ in 
fact, close to best-in-class Œ ˜nancial perfor
-mance over the last several years in terms of 
I. WE FACE THE FUTURE WITH A STRONG FOUNDATION
  AND EXCELLENT FRANCHISES BUILT TO SERVE OUR
  CLIENTS 
margins and returns on tangible common equity. We have done this while meeting 
increasingly higher standards in liquidity and capital. Our fortress balance sheet is 
stronger than ever.
We have an enormous amount of what we 
consider highly liquid assets 
First and foremost are the High Quality 
Liquid Assets (HQLA), shown in the chart 
below, which are mostly deposits at central 
banks, agency mortgage-backed securities 
and Treasuries. Only HQLA count for liquid 
assets under the banking regulators™ de˜ni
-tion of liquidity. These assets are super safe 
and can provide cash to the company should 
it need cash in a crisis situation.Cash and High Quality Securities
at December 31,
($ in billions)˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˜˜
˜˚˛˛˜˝˙ˆ
˜ˇˆ˘
˜˝
˜˙
˜˝
˜ˇ
˜˚˛
˝˙ˆˆˆ

˛˜˜˜˜˜˜
ˆ
ˆˇ†
“1 Represents total amount of cash reported on the balance sheet, including $294 billion and $120 billion of eligible cash included in 
HQLA in the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively 
2 HQLA is the estimated amount of assets the ˜rm believes will qualify for inclusion in the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio and primarily 
includes U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Treasuries, sovereign bonds and other government-guaranteed or government- 
sponsored securities
3 Additionally, the ˜rm has other unencumbered marketable securities available to raise liquidity if required.
  Excludes trading securities and collateral received in reverse repo agreements 
88In addition to the HQLA securities, other 
unencumbered marketable securities 
can provide signi˜cant liquidity for the 
company. (This category does not include 
any securities held in our trading port
-folio.) Our investment securities portfolio 
has an average duration of 2.8 years and an 
average AA+ rating. The majority of securi
-ties balances presented above reside in our 
investment securities. These securities could 
be utilized to provide liquidity and a source 
of cash for the company if necessary.
Our total assets are $2.4 trillion so you can 
see just how liquid our balance sheet is. As 
a reference point, our cash and high-quality 
securities are essentially the same as the $740 billion of our total loans. This is a very 
conservative utilization of our total deposits 
of approximately $1.3 trillion.
We have increasingly strong capital ratios
You can see on the capital chart below that 
under Basel I, our Tier 1 Common has gone 
from 7.0% to 10.7% from 2007Œ2013 (if Basel I had been consistently applied, that 
number would have been 11.8%), and our 
new Basel III ratio has gone from 5.0% to 9.5% over that same time period.
In 2014, we will meet all of our current targets 
in capital, liquidity and leverage. One ratio 
not shown in the chart is called the Supple
-mentary Leverage Ratio (SLR) that is, simply, 
the ratio of equity to assets and certain o˚-balance sheet exposures, regardless of the 
quality of assets. While that calculation still 
is being ˜nalized, we currently are at 4.6% 
vs. a requirement of 5%. We intend to have a 
cushion over 5% by the end of this year.
We have good returns on capital despite 
increasingly higher capital ratios
Even with the increasingly higher capital 
ratios over the past several years, all of our 
main businesses have been earning strong 
returns on tangible equity (see Return on Equity (ROE) chart on the following page). 
Some of our competitors are not earning similar returns, and they likely will feel more 
pressure to alter their business strategies going forward.
JPMorgan Chase Capital Levels
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˇˇˆ˘
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ˘
ˆ˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˚˛˝
˜˚˛˝
˙˚ˆ˝
ˇ˛˚ˇ˝
ˇˇ˚˛˝
˙˚˘˝
ˇ˛˚

˜ˆ˚˜˝
ˇˇ˚ˆ˝
˚
˜˚˙˝
˜˚˛˝
˚
˚˜˝
˘˚˛˝
ˇ˛˚˜˝
ˇˇ
ˆ˚ˆ˝
1  
Through 2013, Basel III capital ratios re˛ect the ˜rm™s best estimate based on its understanding of the rules in the relevant period 
 (2007-2008 ratios are pro forma)
2  
Re˛ects the ˜rm™s estimated Basel I capital ratio, excluding the impact on the ˜rm™s positions as of December 31, 2013 of Basel 2.5 
 market-risk rules, which became e˝ective January 1, 2013
3  
E˝ective January 1, 2014, the Basel I ratio is no longer a regulatory capital measure. The ratios shown re˛ect an approximation of what 
 the ˜rm™s Basel I capital ratio would be as of December 31, 2014, both including and excluding the impact of Basel 2.5 market-risk rules, 
were Basel I still in e˝ect
4  
Re˛ects the ˜rm™s stated 2014 Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio objective 
991  Calculated based on gross 
domestic investment banking 
revenue for syndicated leverage 
˜nance, mergers and acquisitions 
(M&A), equity underwriting and 
bond underwriting
Later in this letter, I will discuss how we 
think all the new rules will a˚ect our returns. 
Our scale and breadth create large cross-
sell opportunities and strong competitive 
advantage 
Each of our four major businesses oper
-ates at good economies of scale and gets 
signi˜cant additional advantages from the 
other businesses. We believe this is one of 
the key reasons we have maintained good 
˜nancial performance.
Below are some pretty powerful examples:


generates 29% of its investment banking 
revenue
1 through Commercial Bank clients covered locally. This helps both our 
 Investment Bank and our Commercial 
Bank do a better job serving their clients.

$1.3 billion in revenue for our ˜xed income 
sales and trading operation, increasing 
business to our trading desks and helping them o˚er better pricing to our clients.


our Investment Bank and our Commercial 

-cial Bank would have a hard time existing 
without our Chase retail branch network. In 
fact, 55% of Commercial Bank clients and 

retail branches each quarter.

management, approximately $300 billion 
comes from the Corporate & Investment 
Bank (CIB), the Commercial Bank or the 
Consumer Bank.

40% of Chase-branded credit cards are sold through the retail branches.
In total, we believe that the combination of 
our businesses accounts for $15 billion of 
additional revenue, which helps drive both 
pro˜ts and customer satisfaction. Each of our 
businesses would be worse o˚ but for the 
other three. 
Our capabilities are extraordinary and are di˜cult 
to replicate Š we can bring huge resources to bear 
for the bene˚t of our company and our clients
Our scale creates huge cost e˛ciencies and enables signi˜cant resources to be brought to bear for the bene˜t of our company. For 
example, in global technology, we have 
nearly 30,000 programmers, application 
developers and information technology 
employees who keep our 7,200 applications, 
32 data centers, 58,000 servers, 300,000 desk
-tops and global network operating smoothly 
for all our clients. Resources like these allow 
us to constantly improve our operating 
e˛ciencies and bring enormous capability to deal with issues when we need to do so 
such as adjusting to all the new global rules 
and requirements. In total, we believe that 
expense synergies across the company save 
us approximately $3 billion a year.
Return on Equity
Excluding    
signi˜cant items
(c)
2011201220132013JPMorgan Chase & Co. (ROTCE
(a))15%15%11%15%ROE by line of business
Consumer & Community Banking
15%25%23%Corporate & Investment Bank
17%18%15%(b)Commercial Banking
30%28%19%Asset Management
25%24%23%Corporate/Private Equity
0%(3)%(9)%(d)(a) Represents return on tangible common equity
(b) Excluding funding and debit valuation adjustments (FVA and DVA), CIB ROE was 17% in 2013 
(c)
 Primarily excludes legal expenses, bene˜ts from reserve releases, one-time gains on the sale of assets and FVA/DVA
(d) Includes legal expenses and one-time gains on the sale of assets
1010Across the ˜rm, we serve approximately 
50% of U.S. households, approximately 80% 
of Fortune 500 companies, and 60% of the 
world™s largest pensions, sovereigns and 
central banks. Today, our ˜rm has on-the-
ground operations in 60 countries and serves 
clients in more than 100 countries around the world. To support those clients, we move 
up to $10 trillion a day and lend or raise 
capital of over $500 billion each quarter. 
The markets in which we operate cover 5.6 
billion people who speak 100+ languages and use close to 50 currencies. It would be 
di˛cult to replicate the size, capabilities and 
knowledgeable sta˚ of our businesses glob-ally. We can help our clients when and where 
they need it. 
It is important to remember our capabili-ties and e˛ciencies accrue to our clients Œ over time, they get the bene˜t in improved 
pricing or better services. 
This has led to increasing market share 
and customer satisfaction in all of our main 
businesseswould matter if they didn™t help us do a 
better job for our customers. You know your 
business model is working when customers 
Œ voting with their feet Œ give you more busi
-ness. Increasing market share and customer 
satisfaction may not always immediately 
show on the bottom line Œ but both are crit-ical to the future growth of our businesses and drive current and 
potential earnings power of the company. The bullet points that 
follow say it strongly.
Consumer & Community Banking
 
the prior year Œ more than two times the 
industry average.


loans outstanding. Record credit card sales 
volume of $420 billion was up 10% from 
the prior year Œ outpacing the industry in 
sales growth for 23 consecutive quarters. 

largest banks for the second year in a 
 row, as ranked by the American Customer 
 Satisfaction Index (and, in the future, we 

all banks). 


-ness banking in three of four regions of the 




Small Business Administration lender for 
the fourth year in a row.

-tion (chase.com) (per 
compete.com as of December 2013).



Banking Functionality Rankings).



network.
Corporate & Investment Bank










revenue share of top 10 investment banks.







 


 that one).1111

including transformational deals for 



and the University of California, to name 
just a few. 



Research and Equity Research Œ for the 
previous four years.
Commercial Banking 


lender in the U.S.


2008.

the year before Œ re˝ecting 14 consecutive 
quarters of loan growth. 



commercial real estate businesses Œ as we 
deliver our capabilities locally in 119 U.S. 
cities and 13 international ones. 
Asset Management 


billion from the year before Œ re˝ecting 
19 straight quarters of positive long-term 
in˝ows. 

 of 2006.

management in top two quartiles.



Bank (Euromoney, 2013).




iMoneyNet, 2013).
We have never been a fair-weather friend 
Š we hope that, over time, this builds more 
trust and respect
During the recent ˜nancial crisis and 


Chase always has been there for our constitu
-ents around the world Œ not only in good 
times but, more critically, in the toughest 
of times when strong banks are needed the most. However terrifying events became, we 
never wavered in supporting our clients and 
communities. In fact, we did many bold and 
unprecedented things, including acquiring 



stopped raising capital and providing credit 
for companies, nonpro˜ts, states, municipali
-ties, hospitals and universities during times 
of trouble. And when the situation became 
very di˛cult in European countries such as 



our clients, which included the countries 
themselves. While we may make mistakes 
along the way, we never lose sight of why we 
are here. We believe that our long-term view 
and consistent behavior earn us the trust and 
respect of our clients and the communities in which we operate.
Our strategy remains the same Š and we 
always invest for the long run
While we need to make a lot of adjustments 
to adapt to the new world (I will discuss later 
in this letter how we intend to do that), we 
are fortunate not to have to do a strategic 
reset. Our strategies have worked Œ a consis
-tent strategy properly executed is important 
for the long-term success of any company.
So whatever the future brings, we will face it 
from a position of strength and stability. And 
we will continue to do what we always have 
done Œ manage the company and invest for 
the long run.1212II.
  
WE WILL DEDICATE EXTRAORDINARY EFFORT IN 2014 
ADAPTING TO THE NEW GLOBAL FINANCIAL ARCHITECTURE 
While we will meet all of our new capital 
and liquidity requirements this year, we 
still have an enormous amount of work to 
do to conform and adapt to the plethora 
of new global rules.
The changes are substantial and will 
require signi˜cant changes to business 
practices
A quick look at the chart on the next 
page will give you a sense of the enor
-mous number of new rules and reporting requirements with which we need to 
comply. They are global and range from 



rules to the 398 Dodd-Frank rules to the 
Basel III capital and liquidity require-ments, the Volcker Rule, and new mort
-gage rules around both origination 
and servicing, to name just a few. Fully 
complying with and adapting to the new world is a daunting task and will require 
enormous e˚ort and energy on the part of 



to get it right Œ both to meet the letter and spirit of the new regulations and to mini-mize disruption to our clients. 
These rules will a˚ect every client, every 
product, every system and every country 
in which we operate. We do not underes
-


before have we focused so much time, 
technology, money and brainpower on 
such an enterprise-wide undertaking. In 
the end, all these e˚orts will make us a 
better and stronger company. 
Importantly, these new regulations in 
total have unquestionably made the global 
banking system safer, more transparent 
and more accountable Œ which is good for 
everybody. Every bank is far better capi
-talized than in the past, and the liquidity 
in the system probably has never been 
higher. In addition, the new rules around 
minimum unsecured debt levels, the Recovery 
and Resolution plans (or so-called living wills), 
and the strengthened capabilities of the regu-lators have put an end, we hope, to the idea 
that anybody is ﬁToo Big to Fail.ﬂ
We are applying enormous resources to 
 the taskReading the bullet points below will give you 
a sense of the time, money and manpower 
we are applying to adapt to the new rules:
13,000 employees will have been added 
since the beginning of 2012 through the end of 2014 to support our regula-tory, compliance and control e˚ort (Risk, 
Compliance, Legal, Finance, Technology, 
Oversight and Control, and Audit) across 
the entire ˜rm.8,000 of our employees across our lines of 
business will be dedicated solely to building 
and maintaining an industry-leading Anti-

500 professionals (and thousands of addi
-tional contributors) were dedicated to 
the 2013 resubmission and 2014 submis-sion of the Federal Reserve™s capital stress 
test or Comprehensive Capital Analysis 
and Review (CCAR). These individuals 
developed and reviewed more than 100 
over 130 independent qualitative and 
quantitative assessments of the ˜rm™s 

established new permanent functions and 
processes to enhance the ˜rm™s overall 
capital planning process.
500 professionals globally across our lines of business and support functions are working on the ˜rm™s annual Recovery and 
Resolution plans.
400 people are dedicated to continue to infrastructure, which will create far 
 more detailed reporting on our daily 
 global liquidity.
1313New Financial Architecture
250+

and Development Œ up by more than 130 
employees. In 2013, this highly specialized 
team completed over 450 model reviews, 
built capital models that enabled the ˜rm to achieve the regulatory approval required 
to exit parallel Basel III reporting, and 
implemented a permanent new gover
-nance and control structure for the proper 
creation and implementation of models. 
$600+ million has been spent on technology 
focused on our agenda in the Regulatory 
and Control space Œ an increase of approxi
-mately 25% since 2011. We also have built 
a state-of-the-art control room in our corpo-rate headquarters to provide streamlined 
data analysis and reporting capabilities of control and operational risk data across the ˜rm.$2+ billion in additional expenses in our 
overall control e˚ort will have been made 
since 2012 through the end of 2014.The numbers above show some of the 
 additional resources dedicated to this objec-tive but barely represent the full resources 
dedicated to our regulatory and control agenda. It is hard to estimate, but perhaps 
20%-30% of all our Risk, Compliance, Legal, 
Finance, Technology, Oversight and Control, 
and Audit employees have been reassigned 
DescriptionSelected requirements
Selected JPMorgan Chase actions
Capital
CCAR stress testing, leverage and 
 risk-based requirements
  Improving the banking sector™s ability 
to absorb losses arising from ˜nancial 
and economic stress
  
750+ requirements with 21 
regulators involved
  
~25 di˚erent capital ratio 
requirements
 500+ people  5,000+ pages of supporting 
 documentation 
 100+ new models 
Liquidity
Liquidity Coverage Ratio and 
 Net Stable Funding Ratio
  Ensuring banks hold su˛cient liquid 
assets to survive acute liquidity stress
  Prevent overreliance on short-term 
wholesale funding
 258 requirements
  15+ jurisdictional variations 
expected
 400+ people   5 billion records processed from 
 over 200 feeds 
  20+ million calculations performed 
dailyRecovery and Resolution
U.S. Dodd-Frank
1 Title I & II, UK
2 Recovery and Resolution, EU BRRD
3  Ensuring the resolvability of 
systemically important ˜nancial 
institutions Preparing living wills
   Resolution plans for 35 
 entities and plans by business, 
sub-business and for critical 
operations
  1+ million work hours devoted 
 annuallyMortgages
U.S. Dodd-Frank
1, Housing Finance 
Reform Legislation
  Reforming the nation™s housing 
˜nance system
   ~9,000 pages of rules,  guidance and legislative text
  
~100,000 work hours of training
  
1+ million work hours dedicated to 
system and process implementation
Securitization
Basel Revised Securitization 
 Framework, Risk Retention, 
 Regulation AB II 
  Enhancing capital requirements 
 and market standards for originators 
and investors
  Improving the strength and safety of 
securitization markets
  2,000+ pages of proposals
 35,000+ work hours dedicated 
 to system development to 
 comply with Basel risk-weighted 
assets rulesDerivatives
U.S. Dodd-Frank
1 Title VII, European 
Market Infrastructure Regulation, 
 Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive II/Markets in Financial 
Instruments Regulation
  Enhancing pre- and post-trade 
transparency
  Promoting the use of electronic 
trading venues and central clearing
  Bolstering capital and margin 
requirements
  83 key rules (U.S.) and 237 
 articles (EU) ˜nalized
  700+ people 60 workstreams
Volcker Rule
  Restricting banks from undertaking 
certain types of market activities
  Insulating retail banking from 
wholesale banking
  1,000+ pages of rules and preamble text with 5 
regulators involved
 36 requirements
  300+ people  7 trading metrics in development 
 across 13 business areas
Note: This list of regulations is not comprehensive; estimates of resources are approximate
1 U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
2 United Kingdom
3 Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive
1414and will be devoted to this e˚ort. In total, 
it is hard to measure the overall scope and 
investment since nearly all employees and 
systems are engaged in some way or another. 
We will be applying the new rules all the 
way to the client level, the product level and 
the trading desk
We will be applying the new rules, particu
-larly around capital, liquidity and the SLR 
(and the factors that increase our capital surcharge as a global systemically impor
-tant bank), all the way down to each client 
we serve, each product we o˚er and each 
trading desk we operate. Doing so will allow 
our client executives as well as product and 
trading managers to understand how the new rules a˚ect us at a very granular level 
and allow our professionals to begin making proper and compensating adjustments. At 
the most basic level, some of these rules 


client may be pro˜table on Basel III capital 
but not on SLR capital or vice versa. The 
binding constraint at the client level may be 
very di˚erent from the binding constraint at 
the ˜rmwide level. To be successful, we will 
need to actively manage all these constraints 
so we get a fair return on our capital and 
properly manage our risks.
At the ˜rmwide level, once we satisfy Basel 
III capital, SLR capital and the Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio, the binding constraints on 
the ˜rm may very well become the CCAR 
test, the annual stress test from the Federal 
Reserve Board. By its nature, the CCAR test is 
less predictable because it will change every 
year. And while you can™t e˚ectively manage 
stress testing at the client or product level, we 
will manage it at the business level so that it 
has more predictable outcomes, allowing for 
more predictable capital planning.
We are big believers in stress testing, and 
you should know that we do it all the time 
and successfully conduct a large number of di˚erent kinds of stress tests every week. 
This enables us to e˚ectively manage risk to 
protect your company.
The new rules will have a major e˝ect on 
certain clients and products
All the new rules will not a˚ect all clients and all products equally. I obviously can™t 
cover all client types and products, but I 
would like to give some examples of those 
that may be a˚ected more than most Œ and 


Chase and our clients.
Derivatives.

-tives (asset managers, hedge funds, ˜nan
-cial companies, governments, etc.) will have 
to move all their standardized derivatives 
(mostly interest rate and credit derivatives) 
to exchanges, as opposed to handling them 
directly with a bank. Corporate end users of derivatives will be allowed to continue 
to trade bilaterally with a bank. However, 
for both of these segments, the cost to o˚er 
derivatives to our various client groups will 
increase due to capital, liquidity and margin 
requirements imposed on us. It still remains 
to be seen how all this will sort out. Non-operational deposits.
 Essentially, these 
are deposits that wholesale clients hold with us that typically are short term and trans-actional in nature. We take these deposits 
more as a service to the client Œ not because they are pro˜table for us. The new rules 
require us to hold 100% of HQLA against 
˜nancial institution deposits and 40% against non-˜nancial corporate deposits. In 
addition, based on current proposals, we 
would have to hold 6% equity against the 
assets we maintain for ˜nancial institutions 
even if those assets consist of cash or other 
low-risk assets such as government bonds. 
This makes non-operational deposits hugely 
1515unable to reform the government-sponsored 
markets healthy again. This has real costs to 
consumers, especially for lower credit-quality 
consumers and particularly for government-
guaranteed mortgages, which have become 
more expensive, more time intensive and 
less available for consumers. Originators are 
being more conservative because making 
loans that may default has become far more 
risky and costly due to: 

uncertainty surrounding Federal Housing 
Administration (FHA) guarantees with respect to FHA mortgages.


 litigation costs around reps and warranties 

investors. 


servicing from di˚erent Œ and sometimes con˝icting Œ regulators and government 
agencies.


servicing Œ again, especially for high-risk 
loans, which often are unpro˜table to us and 
other large ˜nancial institutions Œ to other 
servicers that have systems and processes 
better able to serve these customers. 
These issues make mortgages more costly 
and unpredictable for companies and far less 
consumer friendly. In many cases, deserving 
lower- and middle-income consumers may 
pay far more than they might have in the 
past for a mortgage or, worse yet, they won™t 
be able to get one.
We need for all those involved in the mort
-gage business to come up with a practical 
set of coherent and consistent policies that work for originators, servicers, investors, 



probably will minimize this type of deposit, 
and clients will seek other alternatives, prob
-ably in the money markets. 
Committed, undrawn revolvers.
 
have large, committed, unused revolvers 
so they can manage their cash ˝ows and 
not leave too much unused cash on their 
balance sheet. Because new rules impose liquidity and additional capital requirements on committed, undrawn revolvers, the cost 
involved in providing them could increase 
by up to 60 basis points, depending on the 
client segment and nature of the facility. 
Banks will either have to charge more for 
this product or focus more acutely on the 
nature and value of the particular client rela
-tionship as a whole in considering whether to make revolvers available to that client.
Trade ˜nance.
 The cost of short-term trade ˜nance and standby letters of credit also will 
increase dramatically, with pricing poten
-tially up by 75 basis points in the long term.
The rates business (mostly trading government 
securities and interest rate swaps). 
The new rules have a huge e˚ect on this business 
because they require substantially more 
capital and liquidity. And for some banks, 
the rates business has gone from pro˜table to unpro˜table, causing some banks to exit 
the business altogether. Because of our large 
volume and low costs, we already have begun 
to make signi˜cant changes to this business 
and expect to maintain decent pro˜tability. 
The mortgage business.
 The U.S. mortgage 
market still faces huge hurdles and has a 
long way to go before it is a well-functioning 
market that is good for consumers and the 
country™s economic health (and makes sense 
for ˜nancial companies). There has been 
a large increase in the capital required to service and hold mortgages. Servicing itself 
has become far more costly and dangerous to the servicer Œ servicing costs alone have 
gone up 20 basis points. We still have been 
1616consumers and regulators. While it™s crit
-ical to protect the consumer, the new rules 
should not allow for arbitrary and capricious 
interpretations or overly punitive penalties 
and litigation.
When you look at how the cost of speci˜c 
products has changed, it™s easy to see how 
some clients will be a˚ected more than others. While most clients will see some 
higher costs, certain clients Œ for example, 
municipalities (which will see far higher 
costs for certain types of deposits and credit 
lines), clients with large amounts of trade, 
credit-only clients and speci˜c types of ˜nan-cial companies Œ will experience far higher 
costs to transact banking business. 
We need to achieve proper cross-border 
regulatory coordination
One of the initial objectives of the global 
regulatory regime was to set out fairly consis
-


The rules don™t have to be exactly the same 
in all countries, but if they are dramatically 
di˚erent, that could cause large and unfair 
distortions in global competition. Some areas at risk are: 1) dramatically di˚erent calcula-tions of risk-weighted assets, 2) much lower 
leverage ratios in some countries vs. others 
and 3) varying capital structures for a bank™s 
subsidiaries in di˚erent countries. We are 
convinced that the regulators want to get this 
right, but there are a lot of interests involved, 
and only time will tell if they succeed.
We need to recognize that models and risk-
weighted assets do not re˚ect all knowledge 
or judgment
We recognize the importance of detailed and 
disciplined modeling and forecasting, particu
-larly around risk and risk-weighted assets. But 
we want our shareholders to know that even 
the best models provide an incomplete, some
-times misleading and backward-looking view 
of risk. Let me list a few things that are not 
incorporated in risk-weighted asset models:





(usually driven by technology Œ look at 
what the Internet did to media and some types of retail).


virtually no one o˚ers subprime mortgage 
lending anymore).


policy.

We need to do our math right, but we also 
need to remind ourselves to always try to 
add judgment and wisdom.All things being equal, returns will be 
reduced 
If you have to hold higher capital and higher 
liquidity and some of your costs are higher Œ 
all things being equal Œ your returns obvi
-

estimated that the average e˚ect of the higher 
capital, liquidity and costs on banks will 
reduce their return on equity substantially 
and for some banks far below fair market 
returns. These banks possibly would need to 
take dramatic action Œ shareholders would 
not accept poor market returns for long.
But all things are not equal
Clients, markets and businesses adjust to 
changing economic circumstances. Our 
company already has taken action that gives 
us some con˜dence that we will be able to 
maintain decent returns in spite of what a static analysis would show. The list below 
notes some of those things that likely will 
change over time and, in general, will allow 
banks, on average, to earn market returns:
1717Run-o˚ of unpro˜table products.
 Banks simply will stop handling some very expen
-sive products. For example, many exotic 
derivatives, subprime mortgages and other 
products no longer will be o˚ered.Product repricing
. Some products will reprice. For example, we expect the cost to 
the client for revolvers and transactional 
deposits to go up.
Product redesign
. Some products will be redesigned. For example, uncommitted 
lines of credit (that were popular many 
years ago) may make a comeback. Or 
revolvers may be written so that the 
borrower cannot borrow all the money all 
at once, reducing the liquidity burden and 
cost to the bank.Client selection and re-optimization.
 Banks 
will focus on clients that can be served prof
-itably with a mix of products and services. 
For example, we may seek to earn more of 
certain clients™ capital-lite business like cash 
management or a higher share of their fee-

Some clients will go to other banks with a 
di˚erent mix of products and services, and 
some will be banked in the shadow banking 
market, which may be able to serve some 
clients in a less expensive way.
Tactical and strategic changes.
 These changes 
are hard to forecast Œ but they will happen. 

in the same way. Some banks will stop 
o˚ering certain products or will leave 
certain markets Œ market shares will change 
and, in some cases, consolidate. This eventu
-ally should lead to margins in each product 
and business that are adequate for those 
that remain in the business. 
Return on equity. 
Some banks will continue 

companies are created equal, and in every 
industry that I have observed, some compa
-nies have outperformed for an extended 
period of time. Sometimes it is because 
these companies have lower cost struc
-tures, better technology or simply greater 
economies of scale due to higher market 
share. It also is important to remember 
that a complex business that has many 
products is not earning the same ROE 


historic structural issues that lead to some products being loss leaders (e.g., selling 
milk at grocery stores). And some products 
have an extremely high return because 
there is little equity involved (for example, 
think of money management, transaction 
processing, etc.). It is the combination of 
how a company does all these things that 
determines the company™s aggregate ROE.
In the past, we told you we would expect our 
average return on tangible equity through 
the cycle (by this, we mean in average times 
with normalized credit losses) to be 16%. With higher levels of capital, signi˜cant 
regulatory changes and some remaining 
uncertainties, we moved the number to be 
somewhere between 15% and 16%. 
We continue to have a healthy fear of the 
unknown because we cannot predict the 
cumulative e˝ect of so many changes on a 
complex system
We still worry about the cumulative e˚ect 
of all the changes, which simply cannot 
be known. It is our nature to worry more 
about the downside than to guess about the 

-


other banks). It could be that these changes 
may make it harder for new competitors. It 
is possible that many of these changes will 
create a bigger ﬁmoatﬂ around the banking system. Regardless, we will be vigilant in 
looking for, and reacting to, any negative 
e˚ects that we simply cannot predict today.
1818What we can predict is that we are going to 
have tough global competitors
We have a healthy fear of and respect for 

you™re in or how strong you might look, there 
are a lot of smart, devoted, tough competi
-tors that have the potential to gain on you. 
So we always make the assumption that we 
will have tough competition. In addition to 
the regular lineup of great competitors that we currently have, I want to point out three 
areas (among others) that we will be keeping 
an eye on. 
Large, global Chinese banks.
 Today, there are 
four very large and rapidly growing Chinese 
banks. They may be operating under less 
restrictive rules than we are. They are ambi
-tious, and they have a strategic reason to 
go global (following their rapidly growing 
Chinese companies overseas). They have 
begun their global expansion, and, over time, 
they will become tough global competitors. 
Technological obsolescence.
 It™s easy to be 


are working on new payment systems, 
trading has become increasingly electronic, 
customers want more and more mobile 
services, and, increasingly, companies are 
starting to handle lending online. Your 
company is deploying substantial resources 
and launching new programs and products 
and will try to be creative, innovative and 
nimble in all these areas, which we will talk 
more about in the last section of this letter.
Increasingly sophisticated shadow banks.
 We 
really should not call them ﬁshadowﬂ banks Œ they do not operate in shadows. They are 
non-bank ˜nancial competitors, and there is 
a wide set of them. They range from money 
market funds and asset managers, mortgage 
real estate investment trusts and mortgage 
servicers, and middle market lending funds 



institutions are smart and sophisticated and will bene˜t as banks move out of certain 

competitors will look at every product we 
price, and if they can do it cheaper with their 
set of capital providers, they will. There is 
nothing inherently wrong with this Œ it is a natural state of a˚airs and, in some cases, 
may bene˜t the clients who get the better 
price. But regulators should Œ and will Œ 
be looking at how all ˜nancial companies (including non-bank competitors) need to be regulated and will be evaluating what is 
better to be done by banks vs. non-banks 
 and vice versa. 
We will spend a lot of energy in 2014 
adapting, adjusting and navigating to 
 the new ˜nancial architecture, as well as 
monitoring its impact on our clients and keeping a watchful eye on the landscape 
 as we move forward.
1919We continue to make substantial progress 
strengthening our company. We have made 
enormous strides on our control agenda, 
which is detailed in a letter by our Chief 
Operating O˛cer on pages 33-35. We have 
continued our disciplined organic growth 
while also simplifying our business and continuing to reduce expenses. But ˜rst and 
foremost is the importance of maintaining 
the strength of our client franchises.
In this new global ˜nancial architecture, we 
will protect our great client franchises Š at 
the expense of pro˜ts, if necessary 
As we adapt to all the new rules, we will 
deliberately maintain our franchises even at 
the expense of sub-optimal pro˜ts. Since we 
don™t know what the impact of all the new 
rules will be, we don™t want to guess or make 
major changes in strategy in anticipation of 
these new rules. If some of the changes cause 
disappointing pro˜ts in the short term, so be 
it. We are fairly convinced that we will be able 
to adjust and earn fair pro˜ts in the long run.We are aggressively pruning and simplifying 
our business Š allowing us to reduce risk 
and to focus our resources on what is 
important
In general, it is good for any company to 
diligently prune and simplify its business so that it can focus on what it does best. 
This is just simple good housekeeping. It is 
even more important in this environment, 
largely to help with the control agenda. The 
chart below notes that we are exiting certain 


will a˚ect our main franchises. These actions 
eventually will reduce revenue by about $3 
billion, but they will have little impact on 
pro˜ts. Some of the businesses we are selling 
originally had great promise Œ and we still 
have no problem trying things (and failing 
at them) as long as we have the discipline to 
stop doing them if they don™t work. Some 
don™t ˜t the new regulatory environment, 
some are not customer friendly and some are just simply too small to matter.
III.
 WE HAVE MADE SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS 
  STRENGTHENING OUR COMPANY 
Business Simpli˜cation
Simplifying our business
  Exiting products non-core to our customers or with 
outsized operational risk Š for example:
 One Equity Partners
 Physical commodities
 Global Special Opportunities Group
 Student lending originations
 Canadian money orders
 Co-branded business debit cards and gift cards
 Rationalization of products in Mortgage Banking
1 Identity theft protection 
 Credit insurance
  Discontinuing certain client businesses on a case-by-case 
basis in light of the new global requirements
Financial impact of business simpli˜cation ($ in billions)
2014 impact
Run-rate impact
Revenue
$1.5$2.8Expense(0.9)(2.3)Pre-tax income
0.60.4Net income
$0.3$0.31  Not included in the analysis Expense reductions
lag revenue reductions
2020We still are investing in organic growth, and 
our investments from the past are paying o˝
As we have shown you in previous letters, 
the following nine investment initiatives 
(outlined in the chart below) will contribute 
to our pro˜ts over the next 10 years. All these 
projects are pretty much on track, and we 
expect they will provide substantial value 
for our clients and our shareholders in the 
future. Our current estimate is that they will 
add another $2 billion in pro˜ts by 2017. We 
like organic growth, and while we have not 
started as many major new initiatives this 
year as in previous years so we can focus 
 on our control agenda, there will be great 
opportunities in the future. 
We continue to be vigilant about our 
expenses 
Earlier, we spoke about the regulatory and 
control issues that, by year-end 2014, will 
have increased our overhead expenses by 
$2 billion since 2012. Our total overhead 
(except litigation) was $60 billion in 2013, 
and we expect it will be less than $59 billion 
in 2014. We expect to continue to drive down 
expenses as a percentage of revenue over 
Overview of Select Investments
Expense and net income impact of cumulative spend from select investments ($ in millions)
Line of businessInvestment
Status
Comments
Target annual
net income
Consumer & 
 Community Banking
Branch builds
 Portfolio of branches opened from 2002Œ2012
 Average branch contributes $1 million+ to pre-tax income when mature
 4-year+/Œ breakeven and 7-year+/Œ payback for 2002Œ2012 portfolio
>$600Business Banking
 Expansion market branches fully sta˚ed
 Approaching core market productivity levels
$600+/ŒChase Private Client
 Added 2,100+ Chase Private Client locations since beginning of 2011
 22,000 clients as of 2011; 100,000+ clients as of 2012; 215,000+ 
clients as of 2013
 $14 billion net new money in 2013
$600+/ŒCorporate &
Investment Bank
Over-the-Counter
 Clearing & Collateral 
Management
In progress
 Delivered a global platform and top three market share
 Timing of steady state dependent on implementation of ˜nal Europe, 
Middle East and Africa and Asia Paci˜c rules
$150+/ŒGlobal Prime Brokerage 
 build-out Build out international platform to facilitate clients™ regional strategies
 Successful launch of international prime brokerage in Europe, the Middle 
East and Africa in 2011; Asia Paci˜c launch in 2014
$175+/ŒGlobal Corporate Bank
  Committed to meeting needs of international clients
 ~200 bankers hired since 2009
$600+/ŒEquities electronic 
trading
 Focused on building best-in-class electronic trading capabilities
 Grew low-touch equities revenue at 21% CAGR since 2010
$100+/ŒCommercial 
 Banking
Middle Market expansion
1Ongoing
 Expand Commercial Banking coverage into new markets
 New cities added in 2013 include Tacoma and Jacksonville
 Continue to add ~200 clients per year
$450+/ŒAsset  Management
Private Bankers/
 Investment Management 
sales expansion
 Investment Management 
business initiatives
Ongoing
 Hired ~700 Private Bank client advisors and ~300 Investment 
Management salespeople since beginning of 2010
 Expansion investments contributed net income of ~$100 million in 2013
$800+/ŒIndicates investment complete
2013 expense
2 2013 net income 
~$2.6 billion~$1 billion~$4,100Expect $3.5 billion+/Œ of net income in 2017 run-rate
1 Includes WaMu, as well as out-of-footprint expansion markets
2 Expense for aggregate investments re˛ects expenses related to select investments with overhead ratios higher than business average
2121the years. We are not doing this by skimping 
on investments Œ we never will do that 
since we believe investments in technology, 
training, controls, e˚ective marketing and 
other e˚orts are critical for the long-term 
health and growth of the company. We are 
driving down costs by being extremely 
vigilant on expenses Œ always seeking out 
ways to automate and improve e˛ciency 
and operations. While we don™t have a 
formal expense-cutting program, you can rest 
assured that we always are looking for ways 
to cut wasteful expenditures. We also believe 
that new industry utilities will emerge that 

utility could manage Know Your Customer 
processes (this way, corporate customers 
would not have to ˜ll out the same forms 
and answer the same questions for all their 
banking partners). The ˜nancial sector 
always has been a large user of industry-wide 
utilities, particularly with regard to processes 
like settlement, clearance and payments.
And we always are learning (which also will 
make us a stronger company) 
We always have believed that analyzing your 
mistakes makes you a better company. We 
often are asked about some of the manage
-ment lessons we™ve learned over the past few 
years so let me share a few of them with you. 
Customer advocacy.
 Treat the customer the 
way you want to be treated and make sure 
you see everything from the customer™s eyes. 
Read customer complaints Œ and be the customer™s advocate. This acts as an early 
warning system, it reduces problems and it 
will make you a better company.
Constantly improving systems and processes. 
We always have believed in this, but there is 
an example of where we didn™t with our Anti-







did not continually improve our systems and 
processes, and, in hindsight, we fell behind. All 
systems and processes need to have regular 
review and continual improvement.
A tin ear.
 In the past few years, we had 
 started to see regulatory and enforcement 
actions against our competitors Œ and saw 
signals from our regulators that things were 
going to get tougher going forward. Our 
response generally was, ﬁWe know what 
we™re doing.ﬂ Well, we should have done 
more self-examination. We need to be better 
listeners and do a better job at examining 
critiques of others so we can learn from 
other people™s mistakes, too.
Enterprise-wide controls
. We generally have 
had a preference for leaving things some
-what decentralized, if possible, to foster 
responsibility and innovation throughout 
the organization. We™ve prided ourselves on 
our controls, and, for the most part, we did 
them well. But not all critical controls were 
consistently executed throughout the ˜rm 
Œ and they should have been. This reduces 
the chance of a control gap somewhere in 
the company, and it ensures a sustainable, 
rigorous discipline and process in place every
-where. In addition to our fortress balance 
sheet, we want a fortress control system.
Processes should be known, front to back.
 From 
the moment a customer is opening his or her account to conducting business through the middle o˛ce to properly recording that busi-ness on your books and records, you are only 


teams need to understand and review all the processes in their business.
Sustainability.
 It™s not enough for an activity 
to be done well Œ it needs to be done well on 
a sustained basis. This means a rigorous risk 
assessment, a constant review of all processes, 
properly functioning risk and control 
committees, vigilant compliance and a thor
-ough rechecking of everything by Audit. 
Your management is taking full responsibility 
for all aspects of our business operations. 
Transparency and escalation are key so we 
can deal with problems properly and quickly. 
While we need to be extremely self-critical, 
we intend to do this in an environment of 
collaboration without ˜nger-pointing. 
 22CYBERSECURITY UPDATE
In last year™s letter, I gave a frank assessment about cybersecurity and why it is such a critical priority for the entire 
company. We outlined how JPMorgan Chase had spent approximately $200 million in 2012 to protect ourselves 
from cyberwarfare and to make sure our data were safe and secure, and we dedicated more than 600 employees 
across the ˜rm to the task. Despite these intense e˝orts, we acknowledged that the issue of cybersecurity worried 
us Š and, today, that worry only has continued to intensify.
By the end of 2014, we will have spent more than $250 million annually with approximately 1,000 people focused 
on the e˝ort. This e˝ort will continue to grow exponentially over the years.
In our existing environment and at our company, cybersecurity attacks are becoming increasingly complex and 
more dangerous. The threats are coming in not just from computer hackers trying to take over our systems and 
steal our data but also from highly coordinated external attacks both directly and via third-party systems (e.g., 
suppliers, vendors, partners, exchanges, etc.). It appears that a large, successful attack on a major retailer last year 
was the result of a third-party system breach. 
We are continuing to carefully protect our perimeter from external threats, beef up our processes to detect internal 
threats and monitor related third-party systems to make sure their protections are adequate. In addition, we are 
moving rapidly ahead with Europay Mastercard Visa (EMV) and tokenization for credit and debit card transactions, 
which we will need to do in conjunction with merchants. We also are building three state-of-the-art Cybersecurity 
Operations Centers in our regional headquarters to provide points of coordination for all incoming information, the 
identi˜cation of threats, the protocol around managing our responses and the security of our buildings around the 
world. A major focus of these centers is the concept of intelligence fusion, which will pull together all our internal 
information from Internet and systems monitoring, as well as reconnaissance from our partners in industry and 
government. This approach will give us a comprehensive and consolidated view of all the threats facing our ˜rm 
and our customers, and it will help to inform our view on how best to combat them. 
We™re making good progress on these and other e˝orts, but cyberattacks are growing every day in strength and 
velocity across the globe. It is going to be a continual and likely never-ending battle to stay ahead of it Š and, 
unfortunately, not every battle will be won. Rest assured that we will stay vigilant and do what we need to do to 
enhance our defenses and protect our company. 
222323In the last seven years, we have been through 
a global ˜nancial crisis, massive regulatory 
changes and a number of setbacks Œ but 
our company has been able to recover and 

-chises consistently got stronger. All compa
-nies, at some point, are going to have tough 
times. The ability of a company to overcome 
them and be better for having done so is a 
sign of its strength, not weakness. 
As we navigate through 2014, our fortress 
company and the power of our franchises 
put us in good stead. We are in this busi
-ness forever. And we need to look beyond 
current challenges so that we properly invest 
and plan for the future. When all is said 
and done, there is reason to believe that the 
future of banking will be quite good. The 
following paragraphs explain why. 
The world has been getting better, not worse 
It is hard to believe sometimes Œ when 
you read in the newspapers and see on TV 
all the terrible events happening on the 
planet Œ that the world has consistently, 
over the course of history, become a better 
place for human beings. A recent book by 



The Better Angels of Our Nature
 chronicles 
how mankind has made enormous progress and has improved society throughout the 
centuries. His research looks at issues like 
murder, torture and other acts of violence 
over the past thousands of years and shows 
how today™s world is much safer and more 
humane than in the past. It™s amazing that 
even the 20th century, bloodied by two world 
wars, was less violent than all other centu
-ries before it. Cruelties such as torture and 
slavery over many, many years have become 
increasingly rare (though they tragically still 
exist). There are many contributing factors, 


the invention of new institutions like courts 


human knowledge and a heightened sense of morality spread by the written word, reli
-gious institutions and schools, all of which 
have helped in˝uence people™s minds about 
what is acceptable Œ and what is not.
moral universe is long, but it bends toward 


slow, has been happening all around us all 
the time, and the optimist in me believes that 
it will continue.
We have an abiding faith in the United 
States of America
I have spoken about this in the past, and 
I don™t believe that it is blind optimism or 
patriotism. America today may be stronger 
than ever before. For example: 


-gest military, and this will be the case for 
decades. We also are fortunate to be at 
peace with our neighbors and to have the 
protection of two great oceans.


best universities and hospitals.

and low corruption. 

great work ethic and ﬁcan doﬂ attitude. 

-preneurial and innovative people in the 
world Œ from those who work on the 
factory ˝oors to geniuses like Steve Jobs. 
Improving ﬁthingsﬂ and increasing produc
-tivity are American pastimes. And America 
still fosters an entrepreneurial culture 
where risk taking is allowed Œ accepting 
that it can result in success or failure. 
IV.
 WE BELIEVE OUR LONG-TERM OUTLOOK IS BRIGHT 
2424


best businesses on the planet Œ from small 
and middle-sized companies to large, 
global multinationals. 

deepest, most transparent and best ˜nan
-cial markets in the world. And I™m not 
talking just about Wall Street and banks Œ 
 I include the whole mosaic: venture capital, 
private equity, asset managers, individual 
and corporate investors, and the public 
and private capital markets. Our ˜nancial 
markets have been an essential part of the 
great American business machine.
America™s future is not guaranteed, and, of 
course, America has its issues. Later in this 
section, I will discuss some of the issues, 
especially the ones possibly holding back our 
country™s growth. But throughout history, we 
have shown great resiliency and a capacity 
to face our problems. Warren Bu˚ett, the 
greatest investor of all time and my friend, has 
said, ﬁIt™s never paid to bet against America.ﬂ I 
think we all should take his advice. 
The outlook for long-term growth is 
excellent Š our clients are growing, and 
they need us 
The ˜nancial needs of countries, companies 
and individuals will continue to grow over 
time. And that growth will be broad based 
and global. A few examples su˛ce. 
GDP and trade

projected to grow an average of 7% per 
year through 2023, from $73 trillion in 
2013 to $139 trillion in 2023.



average rate of 11% per year between 2002 
and 2012, from $8.1 trillion to $22.8 trillion. 





Infrastructure

require an estimated $57 trillion in infra-structure investment between now and 
2030 Œ this is 60% more than the $36 tril-lion spent over the past 18 years. Emerging 
economies are likely to account for 40% to 
50% of this infrastructure spending. 


to grow by 9% per year on average 
between 2013 and 2030, outpacing overall 
merchandise trade growth of 8% per year 
so that by 2030, infrastructure-related 
trade will account for 54% of total goods 
traded globally.
Growth of large companies 

(those with revenue greater than $1 billion) 
are expected to develop between 2010 and 

regions, with the share of large company 
revenue generated from those based in 
emerging regions rising from 24% in 2010 to 46% in 2025.

be home to almost 230 companies in the 

the 230 emerging region companies, 120 are 
expected to be based in the China region. 

-nies in emerging economies are spread 
the 7,000 large companies are likely to be 
spread across nearly 160 cities.
Urbanization and population growth 


lives in urban areas for the ˜rst time 
in history, and by 2050, that number 
is expected to grow to 67%. This mass 
urbanization will create cities on a scale 
beyond what most of the world has 

clean water, schooling, healthcare and 
social safety nets (to name just a few) to 
anticipate, accommodate and sustain this 
growth will be hugely challenging. 
Financial assets

and businesses grew to $248 trillion by the 
end of 2013 and are projected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 6.6% through 2023 to roughly $453 trillion.

from emerging market economies, which 
consisted of 20% of global ˜nancial assets 
 in 2013 and is expected to grow to 34% 
 by 2023.
2525All the points above are the fuel that drives 
all of our businesses. The growth will be 
there. The hard part about our businesses 
is managing the complexity and the often 
volatile and violent swings of moods and 
markets, as well as the episodic nature of 

-nesses operate on a convenient annual cycle.) 
What we try to do is see through the fog and 
noise and the madness of crowds to clearly, 
consistently and safely manage our busi-nesses and invest in our future.
Of course risk and uncertainty remain, but 
we need to put it all into perspective 
Of course there is risk in the system. There 
always was, and there always will be. As 
a company, we need to be prepared for 
even the unlikely and unpredictable bad 
outcomes. But like everything else, it helps 
to put risk into perspective. Some of the 
common risks spoken about today include 
geopolitical risks and what some think are in˝ated stock market values (I am not going 
to talk about the stock market as I have little 
discussed area of uncertainty is what e˚ect the reversal of the Fed™s Quantitative Easing 
(QE) policy will have on the economy and 
markets. I will speak about Fed policy later 
in this section. Here I will brie˝y review some of the risk issues we see today. 
Geopolitical risk is a constant
History teaches us that geopolitical risk is 
always there. Some of the risks are well-
known to us such as Afghanistan, Iran, 



not known, and they often are the ones 
that create huge problems. For example, 
most people did not foresee the events in 
start of World War I or the serious issues 



the changes in the geopolitical world were 



the Berlin Wall, the re-emergence of China 
in the global economy and the spreading of 
democracy throughout many parts of the 
world. Two years ago, there was deep fear 
about the collapse of the Eurozone, which, of 
course, hasn™t happened. When I graduated 
from business school 30 years ago, the great 
fear at the time was that America had seen 
its best days and was soon to be surpassed by 
a resurgent Japan. 
While we are prepared and watchful, we see 
nothing that would change our long-term 
plans.
There are many positive factors:

-cial shape. Over 6 million more Americans 
are working since the depths of the ˜nancial 
crisis. The amount of consumer income that 
they spend to service their debt is the lowest 
it has been since it has been recorded, 
dating back to 1980. And Americans™ net 
worth has been increasing, along with stock 
market prices and the value of homes.

markets. We™ve moved from a buyer™s 
market to a seller™s market in four years, 
construction of new homes has steadily improved and home values have increased 
nationally more than 19% in the past two 
years due to the strengthening economy.



the most part, is ˝owing freely. (The only 
exception I see here is that it still is too 
hard to get a mortgage for many people.)


-nies are in extremely good shape. Corpo
-rate cash balances now are 11.4% of assets, 
up from 5.2% in 2000.

-ered, and banks are better capitalized 
than they have been in 60 years. Banks 
had average equity to assets of 11.1% in 
2013 Œ the highest it™s been since 1950. 
And banks in total have $10 trillion in 
deposits vs. $7.6 trillion in loans today Œ 
the lowest loan-to-deposit ratio since 1970. 
In addition, banks currently hold HQLA of 
approximately $2 trillion. 

and less costly oil and gas due to techno
-logical advances in extraction.
2626But something is holding back our growth 
Something is holding back the strong 
recovery of the great American economic 
engine. It is not lack of access to capital or 
loans, but it might be a combination of 
 some of the following factors: 


and red tape Œ I travel around the U.S. all 
the time, and this is a loud and growing 
complaint that I hear from businesses, 
small to large, across virtually all industries.





care,ﬂ when massive changes to such an 
important part of the American economy 
are made, it does create uncertainty for 
many businesses. 

concern. I believe that if we had adopted 
some form of the Simpson-Bowles plan to 
˜x the debt, it would have been extremely 
bene˜cial to the economy.


of federal spending and is growing Œ is crowding out infrastructure spending and spending on initiatives like research and 
development and training.

-mate outcome of the Fed™s unconven
-tional QE policy (and our inability to deal 
with some ˜scal issues) makes future Fed 
policy more complicated.

 our government shutdown but in two 
 debt ceiling crises was damaging and 
 irresponsible. 

-cient and, at the margin, drives American 
capital overseas.



˜x for moral reasons alone) also is driving 

economists think a good immigration policy could accelerate U.S. economic 
growth by 0.2% right away and by 2% over 
a 10-year period. This, alone, could create 
 3 million jobs.
In addition, uncertainty and hypersensitivity to 
risk may be holding back growth
Uncertainty also has always been a constant 
in business. But coming out of a ˜nancial 
crisis, in addition to the items I mentioned 
above, we may be living in a time of height
-ened sensitivity, uncertainty and risk aver
-sion. It seems that just about everyone has 
become a risk expert and sees risk behind 
every rock. They don™t want to miss it Œ 
like they did in 2008. They want to be able 
to say, ﬁI told you so.ﬂ And, therefore, they 
identify everything as risky. Here are a few 
facts that support the uncertainty and risk aversion hypothesis:


We already have mentioned how much 
excess cash they hold.



levels in the last ˜ve years than it has 
been for more than 40 years. Capital 
expenditures ultimately are the drivers of 
productivity, jobs and growth. 


approximately 50% of all capital expen
-ditures. One reason that large companies 
may be more conservative in their use 
of cash and debt is that rating agencies are much tougher on ratings. In 1993, the 
number of AAA and AA issuers was 413, 
and in 2013, that number was 147. Today, 
the companies are bigger, basic ˜nancial 
metrics (i.e., debt to equity and margins) 
essentially are the same and defaults are lower. I have defended the rating agencies™ 
right to their opinions, but it seems they 
also may have largely overreacted to the 
˜nancial crisis. 

American system is that it is okay to fail 
and to try again. But even that seems to 
be diminishing as failure, other than in 
Silicon Valley, is severely punished. 
This all can be ˚xed
There is nothing in all of the negative items 
that I mentioned above that can™t be ˜xed 
through our own actions. Collaboration as 
opposed to destructive ˜nger-pointing is 
needed. A few smart decisions and a lot of 
2727constructive collaboration will improve con˜
-dence Œ and con˜dence is the ﬁsecret sauceﬂ of growth. As consumers and businesses 

grow more con˜dent, they will spend more 

and invest more. Stronger economic growth 

will create more jobs and higher incomes 
and give us the necessary resources to tackle 

pressing and important issues like inner city 

school education, income inequality and 

proper infrastructure investing.
The impact of tapering
Today, there is hyperfocus on central bank 

policy and, in particular, on what™s called 

ﬁFed tapering.ﬂ The U.S. Federal Reserve had 

been buying $85 billion a month in Treasuries 

and mortgage securities (it recently reduced 

that amount to $55 billion a month). Most 
observers expect that number to come down 

to zero by the end of the year. Eventually, the 

Fed may need to begin selling some of the 

securities it has purchased. 
The Fed™s balance sheet has gone from $1 tril
-lion in 2007 to an estimated $4.5 trillion by the 

end of this year. Some feel the Fed™s QE poli
-
cies have been too aggressive and ultimately 

will be in˚ationary. Additionally, there is a 

fear that ending QE will be risky and complex, 

particularly since QE has little precedence. 
We cannot predict the future, and it is 
rational to have a healthy fear of new and 

untested policies. However, we think it will 

be helpful to put some of these issues in 
perspective, too.
Put it in perspective
The value of all ˜nancial assets in America 

today is approximately $90 trillion. When 

the Fed stops buying securities, the $4.5 

trillion it owns will run o˛ to $2 trillion by 

2020 simply from paydowns of principal in 

Treasuries and mortgages. While it is not 

clear what the new steady state will be Œ the 

Fed probably will not need to take its balance 

sheet all the way back down to $1 trillion. 

Even if the Fed eventually needs to sell some 

securities, the American economy should 

be able to handle it easily Œ particularly in a 
strong economy.
This unconventional monetary policy (QE) may 
have worked, but it is confusing
Figuring out the full e˛ect of QE is hard to 
do. And, therefore, ˜guring out the e˛ect of 

the reversal of QE is even harder to do. 
QE replaced $3 trillion in Treasuries and 
mortgage securities held by individuals, 

investors, funds and others with cash 

reserves created by the Fed. If all that might 

happen is the various investors involved 

took the cash and deposited it at a bank and 
the bank, in turn, deposited it at the Fed, 

there essentially would be no real change 

in economic e˛ect. But if those involved 

spent the money, bought additional stocks or 

bonds and invested in long-term assets, there 

would be an e˛ect on the real economy.
There is little question that QE Œ because it drove long-term rates down Œ lifted asset 

prices, including stocks and home prices 

(there were other global e˛ects, but I won™t 

talk about them here), reduced funding costs, 

improved economic activity and helped the 

economy recover. This probably was more 

true early on with QE and less true later on. But much of QE appeared to be ﬁunused.ﬂ 
At the end of 2007, before QE started, banks 

had $6.7 trillion in deposits, $6.8 trillion in 

loans and only $20.8 billion in deposits2 at the Fed. Today, banks have $10 trillion in 

deposits, $7.6 trillion in loans and $2.6 tril
-
lion in deposits at the Fed. You can see that 

loans increased very little, while deposits and 

reserves at the Fed increased dramatically. 

Banks clearly did not use all of these addi-
tional deposits to make more loans, though 

this was due to several factors, including the 

weak economy and the banks™ need to build 

up their capital and liquidity ratios. One 
concern is that this ﬁunusedﬂ money will one 
day be aggressively used Œ and cause too 

much in˚ation.
The Fed has tools in place to reverse QE if 
necessary Š and banks have more constraints in 
lending out the money anyway
The Fed has many tools to reverse QE 
if necessary, which it can readily use if 

too much credit is created in the system. 

However, banks will be far more constrained 

in how much they can lend than in the past 

because of the new, higher liquidity and 
2 Regardless of what those receiving 
cash for their securities did with 
the cash, it ultimately will end up 
back in the banking system in the 

form of deposits, both at the bank 
and, therefore, deposits at the 
Fed. The deposits at the Fed are 

called reserves
2828capital requirements. In the new regulatory 
environment, the transmission and e˚ect of 
monetary policy by the Fed will be di˚erent 
from the way it was in the past. It is very 
hard to calculate this impact, although I™m 
sure the Fed is taking it into consideration. 
In addition, business ˜nancing needs are 
likely to be moderate because businesses will 
be able to fund many of their projects with 
their own excess cash and strong earnings.
Normalization is a good thing
Ultimately, a normalization of interest 
rates, capital ˝ow and allocation without 
central bank interference, concurrent with 
a strengthening economy, has to be a good 
thing Œ something that we all eventually 
should want even though it probably will 
be accompanied by volatile movements in 
interest rates. When rates do normalize, we 
know one thing for certain Œ it will happen 
di˜erently from what people expect. And 
my guess is that when it happens, it will 
be faster than people expect. A normalized 
interest rate curve might have short-term 
interest rates at 3%-4% and 10-year Treasury 
bond rates at 5% plus or minus. If the yield 
curve returns to those kinds of levels in a 
healthy economy, we all will be okay. And 
the Fed already has made it absolutely clear 
that it will normalize its monetary policy 
only as the economy strengthens. 
Focus on the real economy vs. the money 
economy 
The real U.S. economy includes 145 million 
people who get up and go to work every 
day, trying to improve their lives and the 
lives of their family (and counter to what 
you read in the newspapers, 80% of those 
people are happy with their job). The real 
economy includes millions of companies 
serving clients every day and generally 
building to expand and meet their customers™ 
order ˝ows. In fact, most people in the real 
economy appropriately pay very little atten
-tion to the money economy. I would remind 
our readers that there are 320 million Ameri
-

or read The Wall Street Journal
. In the real economy, what matters to most people is 
one™s family, job and quality of life. 
Those of us who operate in the money 
economy are very sensitive to interest rates Œ 
maybe overly sensitive. And we should look 
through the volatility at interest rates, which 
will almost de˜nitely be there as the Fed 
changes its policy. Volatility in interest rates 
will not necessarily dampen real growth in the real economy. 
Rising interest rates (all things being equal) 
will be a big plus for your company 
Even as we have grown deposits and market 
share in many of our businesses, pro˜t 
margins have been squeezed because of 
abnormally low interest rates. If interest 
rates rise to the normalized scenario that I described earlier, our net interest margins 
could expand 2.2%-2.7%, increasing our net 
interest income and pro˜ts by approximately 
$6 billion after-tax, all things being equal. 
This, of course, would take place over three 
to ˜ve years and not in a straight line. But, 
indeed, all things are not equal Œ many other 
factors will have an impact on our business 
˝ows and results. 
We have been vigilant in trying to analyze 
the e˚ect of interest rates on interest margins (we have managed the balance sheet 
to bene˜t from rising interest rates), and we 
also have been vigilant in trying to predict 
the e˚ect of interest rates and Fed mone
-tary policy on deposit ˝ows. There is little 
question that the Fed™s QE policy increased 
deposits substantially and that, as QE is 
reversed, it will reduce deposits. It is possible 
that we could see signi˜cant out˝ows of 
certain types of deposits over the years Œ an 
event for which we will be prepared.
Banks still need to be there in good times 
and in bad times Š but it will be a little 
harder in the new world
In the last ˜nancial crisis, many banks 
stood against the tide. They were there for 
their clients and continued to fund busi-nesses, cities, schools, hospitals and invest
-ments when many other banks wouldn™t or 
couldn™t do so. It is not because these banks 
were irrational but because that is their job. 
Imagine yourself being a client of a bank, 
and, at the ˜rst sign of trouble, the bank 
runs like a rabbit.
2929The money markets and some of the capital 
markets are like rabbits Œ at the ˜rst sign 
of trouble, they run as far and as fast as 
they can. Human psychology isn™t going to 
change, and even the Fed can only mitigate 
the e˚ect of this reaction. It is quite possible that some shadow banks will act that way 
Œ they may make loans only in good times 
but not in bad times. So when the regulators 
˜nish designing the new system, they should 
try to keep this in mind. 


-clicality. For example, Basel III capital rules 
require that risk-weighted assets will go up 
in a stressed environment. We estimate that 
between 10% to 20% of our capital may be 
used in an extreme stressed environment to 
satisfy additional regulatory requirements, 
and this will force us more quickly and more 
aggressively to reduce, or not add to, risk 
assets as the stressed environment unfolds. 
And the new liquidity rules require us to hold 100% of liquid assets against possible 
out˝ows. So as a crisis unfolds, by de˜nition, 
we will have out˝ows higher than expected 
that will require more liquid assets. This 
will require the selling of risky assets to buy 
liquid assets. We hope the regulators will 
come up with a schematic that allows the 
use of liquid assets in stressed times without penalty so that banks can continue to  lend when times are tough. We certainly 
don™t want to have liquidity or capital rules 
 aggravating a crisis.
And we have many exciting new things 
coming
We have focused a lot of attention in this 
letter on the new rules and regulations and 
on many issues about which we need to be 
worried. But there still are a lot of initiatives 
and innovative new products and services 
coming down the pike about which we are 
excited. I™d like to mention just a few of them:
Better client data management leading to 
deeper penetration.
 In all of our businesses, 
we are building better client data manage
-ment systems. This gives us a deeper under
-standing of our clients and better coordina-tion of our selling e˚orts. This allows us 
to more e˚ectively sell additional products 
to the same customers Œ which helps drive 
both pro˜tability and customer satisfaction.Increasing segmentation and focus on more 
re˜ned market segments. 
For example, this 
includes advertising and products speci˜
-cally designed for market segments like 
retirees, women and certain minority 
groups. Our Commercial Bank has formed 
specialty lending departments so that, as a 
whole, this line of business has deep exper
-tise about particular industries. And our 
mobile banking products will be speci˜cally 
designed for di˚erent market segments. 
Even in areas where we already are ranked 


when you dig deeper, there still is a lot of 
room for improvement in certain parts of 
the world and in certain sub-businesses 
 and products. 
An exceptional customer experience. 
We have 
been on this journey for a while, and we 
are getting better, but there is so much 
more to do. We want to be known for our 
customer service Œ and we want to be 
compared in this regard with the best in 
the business. 
JPMorgan Chase Institute. 
We are going to 
form a thought-leading institute backed 
by all of the knowledge, broad relation
-ships and resources across the ˜rm to help continue to educate the world on topics in 


deep knowledge. We intend to analyze and 
publish our insights on small, middle-sized 
and large businesses, the development of 
cities and communities, global trade and 
capital ˝ows, and workforce development, 
among other themes.
Big Data.
 We have created a high-powered 
group of experts to enhance our use of 

or purchased externally) to create intelli
-gent solutions for our clients. For example, 
we are looking at our data assets to help 
clients in managing collateral positions, 
assist merchants in gaining insights and 
aid consumers in validating credit reports, 
among others. This group will have an 
unending supply of work.
ChaseNet.
 We announced this initiative 
last year. It allows us to rethink the whole 
end-to-end payment experience for both 
30THE ROLE OF BANKS IN DEVELOPING SOCIETY
At JPMorgan Chase, we believe we have a responsibility to be part of the solution to the world™s most pressing 
problems, not only because it™s the right thing to do but because our own long-term success depends on the 
success of our communities and the people, companies and institutions we serve.
JPMorgan Chase contributes approximately $200 million a year Š much of it to help the poor and disadvantaged 
Š and our people dedicated more than 540,000 hours of volunteer service in local communities around the globe. 
The volunteer work that our employees do helps to de˜ne the meaning of corporate responsibility by creating 
tangible connections in communities around the world Š from the largest countries to the smallest towns. 
And our e˝orts go well beyond philanthropic work. We also develop programs that bring together our ˜nancial 
capital, as well as our core strengths, capabilities, and the expertise of our business and our people to help 
improve the world in which we live. It is a big responsibility to be a bank Š and communities around the globe are 
better o˝ if we do it well. 
We will continue to use our size, scale and expertise to make a di˝erence and to be a real, positive contributor to 
society Š from ˜ghting income inequality to improving education and work skills. I see evidence of the di˝erence 
we make every day, and following are just a few examples that I™d like to mention. 
Helping Close the Skills Gap
Even in the face of high unemployment, we hear from our clients daily about how hard it is to ˜nd workers with 
the right skills. Some 4 million jobs stand open, while 11 million Americans remain unemployed, and millions more 
have given up seeking employment. That™s why we launched New Skills at Work, an unprecedented $250 million, 
˜ve-year private sector initiative to improve job training at the middle-skill level (for jobs that require training 
beyond high school but not a four-year degree). The sense of urgency to address this issue is something we see 
everywhere we do business, and we are working with community leaders across the country Š community colleges, 
technical training programs, policymakers and employers Š to tackle the skills gap. We know that helping workers 
gain the skills they need is only one part of the solution to the unemployment challenge, but it is an area we can do 
something about right now. And JPMorgan Chase is uniquely suited to the task of rallying a broad range of business 
leaders around the goal of aligning our investments in education and skills training with current job openings and 
future career pathways.
30consumers and merchants. We now have 
several clients on a beta test, and we are 
hoping to roll out some exciting programs 
that are good for consumers and merchants 
alike. 
Payments.
 While this topic does keep us 
up at night due to the talent and innova
-tion of the competition that would love 
to make us obsolete, we should point out 

payment companies in the world (across 
credit cards, merchant payments, global 
wire transfers, etc.). We are even one of the 
biggest mobile payment companies. So in 
this space, there is both risk and opportu
-nity. We have some good ideas and action 
plans so stay tuned!
European capital markets.
 As the bank 
markets are shrinking in Europe, the public 
bond markets will be growing. It is hard for 
us to compete in the bank lending markets 
in Europe, but we are very quali˜ed to gain 
market share in the public capital markets. 
31Improving Educational Outcomes for Young Men of Color
We™re also willing to roll up our sleeves. Over the last four years, our employees coached 24 young men of color 
from low-income New York City neighborhoods Š where less than 30% of black and Hispanic males graduate from 
high school Š in an end-to-end program that supplemented their academics, gave them leadership training and 
helped them apply for college. All 24 got into college Š they started last fall Š with $8 million in scholarships, and 
we™re hoping we see them this summer in internships here.
Attracting Private Capital to Social and Environmental Challenges
Foundations and governments, with their limited resources, can do only so much to solve the challenges facing 
low-income populations around the world. To make progress at the scale required, we need to create vehicles 
that attract private capital and apply it to generate measurable social and environmental bene˜ts Š alongside 
˜nancial returns. The Global Health Investment Fund that we established with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
raised private capital to invest in new drugs and vaccines, emerging diagnostic tools, child-friendly formulations of 
existing products, and technologies to reduce maternal and infant mortality Š all focusing on diseases that dispro
-portionately a˝ect the world™s poorest countries. By including global access requirements, products are avail
-able at a˝ordable prices to the populations most in need. And we™re working now with The Nature Conservancy 
to establish a new center for natural capital investing that will structure transactions that generate revenue from 
sustainable use of a property Š monetizing habitat protection, water conservation, sustainable timber harvesting, 
wetlands, etc. Stay tuned for more on that.
Serving Cities as Clients and the Engines of Economic Growth
JPMorgan Chase continues to focus on ways to help metropolitan communities operate and grow. We o˝er states and 
cities our best advice and considerable ˜nancial support. Last year, the ˜rm provided more than $85 billion in capital 
or credit to nearly 1,500 government entities, including states, municipalities, hospitals, universities and nonpro˜ts. 
We extended the reach of our Global Cities Initiative with The Brookings Institution by creating a network of trading 
cities across the United States and ultimately around the globe Š these are cities that will build new commercial 
relationships by strengthening trade and investment ties and by learning from each other about how to grow 
industries with real export potential. Our Global Cities Initiative with Brookings, which we launched two years ago, 
includes a $10 million ˜nancial commitment and the ability to tap our network of relationships around the world to 
convene an extraordinary series of events in cities from Los Angeles to São Paulo. These sessions bring together 
policymakers, business leaders and non-governmental organizations to share best practices and formulate strate
-gies for improved competitiveness. As a result of these meetings, participants are developing locally driven, action
-able strategies to strengthen their respective region™s trade and investment practices. 
31Emerging markets.
 As the world grows, so 
does the number of countries and compa-nies that we can serve. Every time we open 
an operation in a country, we support 
companies from around the world to do 
business there Œ and we help the country™s 
companies explore the world. The network 
e˚ect is huge and hard to duplicate. 
Taking everything on balance, all the risks 
and all the opportunities in what essen-tially is an improving and growing world, 
we remain optimistic about the future of 
banking.
3232It is important to acknowledge that no matter how good one™s 
 



 have seen companies in extraordinary positions erode over time. 
 Sometimes this happens because of structural or technological 
changes, but, frequently, it happens because of plain and simple 
mismanagement. And this is even more true when you operate in 
tough, complex, competitive and sometimes volatile global markets.
So to succeed long term, we need an excellent management team. 
And in my opinion, your management team has the character, 
culture, intellect, experience and wisdom necessary to succeed. 
And importantly, this management team does not rest on its laurels 
and is continually questioning itself and often focusing not on what 
we do well but on what we have 
not done well. Years ago, the U.S. 
military adopted a review process called the After Action Reviews 
(AAR). An AAR is a disciplined process where military leaders review 
the results of all missions taken. This examination is conducted not so 
the commanders in charge can ˜nd faults and point ˜ngers Œ but so 
everyone can continually get better. At our company, we have the same 
attitude and just hope that we can do it half as well as the U.S. military.
In closing, I want to reiterate how honored I am to work at this 
company and with its people. What they have accomplished during 
these di˛cult circumstances has been extraordinary. On behalf of 




gratitude to our people Œ I am proud to be their partner. 
IN CLOSING
Jamie Dimon
 Chairman and Chief Executive O˛cer
April 9, 2014
