2Dear Fellow Shareholders,
Your company earned a record $21.3 billion in net income on revenue of $97.0 billion 
in 2012. It was our third consecutive year of both record net income and a return on 

tangible common equity of at least 15%. 
Our ˜nancial results re˚ected strong underlying performance across virtually all our 
businesses, fueled by strong lending and deposit growth. We also maintained our 

leadership positions and continued to gain market share in key areas of our franchise.
This ˜nancial performance has resulted in good stock performance. For Bank One 
shareholders since March 27, 2000, the stock has performed better than most ˜nancial 

companies and the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500). And since the JPMorgan 

Chase & Co. merger with Bank One on July 1, 2004, we have had good performance 

vs. other ˜nancial companies and slightly worse performance than the S&P 500. The 

details are shown in the charts on the opposite page. One of the charts also shows the 

growth in tangible book value per share, which we believe is a conservative measure of 

value. You can see that it has grown far more than the S&P 500 in both time periods. 
Jamie Dimon  with employees 
 
in Ohio3Stock Total Return Analysis
     S&P Financials 
     
 Bank One S&P 500  IndexPerformance since becoming CEO of Bank One 
(3/26/2000 Œ 12/31/2012):
(a) Compounded Annual Gain (Loss) 
  8.6% 
 1.4% 
 (1.0)%     Overall Gain (Loss)
  185.1% 
 18.8% 
 (11.5)%         S&P Financials 
     
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.
 S&P 500  IndexPerformance since the Bank One 

and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger 

(7/1/2004 Œ 12/31/2012):
 Compounded Annual Gain (Loss)
  4.2%  4.8% 
 (4.0)% 
    Overall Gain (Loss)
  42.0% 
 49.2% 
 (29.5)%These charts show actual returns of the stock, with dividends included, for heritage shareholders of Bank One and JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
 vs. the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500) and the Standard & Poor™s Financials Index (S&P Financials Index).
(a) On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One.
Bank One/JPMorgan Chase & Co. Tangible Book Value per Share Performance vs. S&P 500
    Bank One  
S&P 500   
Relative Results
   
 (A)  
(B)   
(A) Š (B) Performance since becoming CEO of Bank One 

(12/31/2000 Œ 12/31/2012):
(a) Compounded Annual Gain 
   13.4% 
 2.6%
 10.8%
  Overall Gain 
   354.1% 
 36.3%  317.8%
         JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
  
S&P 500   
Relative Results
   
  (A)   (B)   
(A) Š (B) Performance since the Bank One 

and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger 

(7/1/2004 Œ 12/31/2012):
 Compounded Annual Gain 
   15.4% 
 4.8%
 10.6%
  Overall Gain 
   237.2% 
 49.2% 
 188.0%
 Tangible book value over time captures the company™s use of capital, balance sheet and pro˜tability. In this chart, we are looking at 
 heritage Bank One shareholders and JPMorgan Chase & Co. shareholders. The chart shows the increase in tangible book value per share; 
 it is an after-tax number assuming all dividends were retained vs. the S&P 500 (a pre-tax number with dividends reinvested).
(a) On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One.
Stock and Book Value Performance
˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙˜˚˚ˆ
˜˚˚ˇ˜˚˚˘˜˚˛˝˙ˆ
˜˛ˇ˝ˇˇ
˜˛ˆ˝˘
˜˚˚
˝
˝˛ˇ
˜ˆ˙
˝
˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙˜˚˚ˆ
˜˚˚ˇ˜˚˚˘


˜˛˛ˇ
˜˛ˇ˙ˆ
˜˚˛ˇ
˜˘
˜˛˘˘˘˘
˜˘˝
˜˛
˜˚˝˚ˆ
˜˙ˆ
˜˘˝˘ˇ

˜
˜ˇ˘ˇ
˜˚

˜˚˚ˆ‘˜˚˛˜


˜˚˚ˆ‘˜˚˛˜
•
Earnings and Diluted Earnings per Share
 2005 Œ 2012 ($ in millions, except diluted EPS)
Tangible Book Value per Share
 2005 Œ 2012 4For the better part of this decade, during a time of tremendous challenges, our 
company has been doing great things. During this period of economic volatility, 

social and political change around the world, growing social needs and constrained 

government resources, our work matters more than ever.
Today™s global economy is exciting and dynamic, but it also can be tough and confusing. 
To survive and succeed, companies small and large need to innovate and learn to do 

business in markets around the world; big cities are becoming even bigger, as are 

the challenges they face, with millions of residents needing basic services; workers 

must continually update their skills and adapt to changing technologies and global 

competition; and average families require tools and support to navigate a complicated 

˜nancial landscape and successfully secure a good mortgage, manage a household 

budget, and invest in their retirement and future. 
These issues are critically important. How we all deal with them will de˜ne the U.S. and 
global economies for decades to come. And as much as any other company, JPMorgan 
Chase is positioned to help individuals, businesses of all sizes, governments, nonpro˜ts 
and other partners seize the opportunities and respond to the challenges of our times. 

We can do it because of the strong company we have built Š global in reach, with 

outstanding people, expertise, capabilities, relationships and capital at the scale required 

to do big things. 
During the course of 2012, JPMorgan Chase provided credit and raised capital of over 
$1.8 trillion for our clients. This included $20 billion for small businesses, up 18%. We 

also originated more than 920,000 mortgages; provided credit cards to 6.7 million 

people; and raised capital and provided credit of approximately $85 billion for nearly 

1,500 nonpro˜t and government entities, including states, municipalities, hospitals and 

universities. And we continued to stand by our European clients Š both corporations 

and governments Š as they were facing economic stress and challenges. As part of the 

100,000 Jobs Mission we helped launch in early 2011, we have hired nearly 5,000 U.S. 

military veterans and members of the National Guard and Reserve; and, through our 

nonpro˜t partners, we have provided mortgage-free homes for 386 deserving veterans 

and their families. ˙
˙˙
˙
˙
˙
˙
˙

˙˙
˙€

•…‡•
˜˚˛˝˜˚˚˝
˜˚˙˝
˜ˆˇ˝˜˘˝


˜ˇ
˜ˆ
˘
˙
˛
˜ˇ


˜˚˚ˇ˚
˚
˜˚
˜˚˘
˜˚ˆ˚
˙
˜˛˙
˜˚
˜˘˙˘

˜ˆˇ
˜˛
˜˚˚
˜˚˙
˚

˚

New and Renewed Credit and Capital for Our Clients
Corporate clients 
 ($ in trillions)Consumer and commercial banking 
 
($ in billions)5Through the turbulence of recent years, we have consistently earned a fair pro˜t for 

our shareholders, and we have never stopped serving clients and investing in the future 

of our franchise Š opening new o˚ces and branches, adding bankers in key markets, 

innovating and gaining market share. Our capital strength and earnings power are 

as strong as they have ever been. Challenges still exist, and there™s always room for 

improvement, but as we head into 2013, we remain proud of these accomplishments and 

are optimistic about the future.
There are a few things, however, that occurred this past year that we are not proud of. 
The ﬁLondon Whaleﬂ episode not only cost us money 
 Š it was extremely embarrassing, 
opened us up to severe criticism, damaged our reputation and resulted in litigation 
and investigations that are still ongoing. I will discuss this incident in more detail in 

the ˜rst section of this letter. Additionally, we received regulatory orders requiring 

improved performance in multiple areas, including mortgage foreclosures, anti-money 

laundering procedures and others. Unfortunately, we expect we will have more of 

these in the coming months. We need to and will do all the work necessary to complete 

the needed improvements identi˜ed by our regulators. 
6In this letter, I will discuss the issues highlighted below. I am not going to cover the 
updates on our business units as the Chief Executive O˛cers (CEO) of those businesses 

have provided individual updates, and I encourage you to read their letters as well. 
Your company takes its responsibilities quite seriously. We are doing big things at 
 a time that calls for just that. We will continue to do so. And we will not let the 
challenges we face today undermine our intention to deliver to the next generation 
 of shareholders, customers, employees and communities a better, stronger 
 JPMorgan Chase capable of doing more good than ever before. 
As usual, this letter will describe some of our successes and opportunities, as well 
 as our challenges and issues. The main sections of the letter are as follows: 
I. Our control and regulatory agenda is our top priority (and some lessons 
 learned from the ﬁLondon Whaleﬂ) 
II. A frank assessment of where our country and the world are today Š the 
opportunities and challenges
III. JPMorgan Chase faces the future with a strong hand
IV.
 We are using our unique capabilities to do even more for our clients and 
communities 
V.
 Our people are our future Š how we are developing and retaining our leaders
7I would like to deal with some of our prob
-lems right up front. Our biggest problem 
 of the year Œ the ﬁLondon Whaleﬂ Chief 

Investment O˜ce (CIO) issue Œ has been 

widely chronicled. Unfortunately, we also 

fell short on multiple control issues high-
lighted by the regulatory consent orders 

that we received. (Consent orders may be 

given to a bank when a regulator deter
-mines that the bank fails to meet proper 

standards Œ and they demand improved 

procedures.) Our consent orders came not 

only from the CIO issue but also around 

mortgage foreclosures and anti-money 
 laundering practices. 
Let me be perfectly clear: These problems 
were our fault, and it is our job to ˚x them. In 

fact, I feel terrible that we let our regulators 

down. We are devoted to ensuring that our 

systems, practices, controls, technology and, 

above all, culture meet the highest standards. 

We want to be considered one of the best 

banks Œ across all measures Œ by our share
-holders, our customers 
and our regulators.
We also must prepare to comply with all 
the new regulatory requirements. These 

include not just the several hundred rules 

coming out of Dodd-Frank but the capital 

and liquidity rules coming out of Basel 

and the new rules coming out of Brussels, 

the United Kingdom™s Financial Services 

Authority and other regulatory bodies 

around the world. Additionally, we must 

meet many new reporting and stress testing 

requirements. And we must meet all of 

these requirements in short order. 
We absolutely believe that our bank and our 
regulators share a common goal: to ensure a 
strong, stable banking system that can help 

our economy grow. 
Satisfying all the regulatory requirements 
will take diligent, sustained e˜ort and will 
touch every part of the company 
Our shareholders should understand that the mandate to meet all the new regulatory 
requirements requires extensive changes 

in our business practices. These new rules 

will touch almost every system, every legal 

entity, every product and every service that 

we have across the company. To give you 

one example, we are enhancing systems to 

manage risk-weighted asset and liquidity 

requirements all the way down to the speci˚c 

asset and the speci˚c client. It also is possible that we will need to make 
changes to our legal entity structure and our 

capital structure to comply with the new 
rules relative to subsidiaries, orderly resolu
-
tion and living wills. 
We are committed to making the necessary 
investments in our risk, credit, ˚nance, legal, 

compliance, audit, technology and operations 

sta˛ to change systems, reporting and prac
-
tices to meet all the regulatory changes. 
Our control agenda is now priority #1 Š we 
are organizing and sta˚ng up to meet our 
regulatory obligations
We are making our control agenda priority 
#1. To do so, we are re-prioritizing our major 

projects and initiatives, deploying massive 

new resources, and dedicating critical mana
-
gerial time and focus to this e˛ort. We also 

will be making changes in our organizational 

structure to ensure we get this done properly 

and quickly. 
For this reason, we have established a new 
Firmwide Oversight & Control Group that is 

separately sta˛ed, reporting directly to our 

Co-Chief Operating O˜cers (co-COO). The 

group has the authority to make decisions 

top down, in command and control fashion, 

similar to the way we operate when we 

undertake a major acquisition.
I.  
OUR CONTROL AND REGULATORY AGENDA IS OUR TOP 
PRIORITY (AND SOME LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE 
ﬁLONDON WHALEﬂ) 
8We have asked every line of business in 
the company to appoint a business control 

o˜cer to report jointly to the line of business 
CEO and the Firmwide Oversight & Control 

Group. In addition, every major enterprise-

wide control initiative (we have more than 

20 of them) will be sta˛ed with program 
managers and oversight group managers, 

including our COOs. Each initiative also 

will have an Operating Committee member 

responsible for its success. This structure will 

enable the control groups to have immediate 

access to the right people, make decisions 

quickly and have the resources to get any 

issues ˚xed. Our Operating Committee members also 
will be meeting regularly with our regulators 

to share information and hear from them 

directly about any criticisms they may have. 

We are approaching this entire e˛ort with the 
same level of rigor and discipline we bring 
to everything we do, from major mergers 

to large-scale re-engineering programs. The 

goal of this e˛ort Œ to have a strong, e˛ective 

control environment across the company Œ is 

what makes this huge investment of time and 

resources worthwhile. 
We must and will do a better job at 
compliance
We are dramatically strengthening how we 
carry out our compliance mission, including 

signi˚cantly increasing our compliance sta˛ 
over the last three years. The letter on the 

opposite page     was sent out in early March 

to all our employees and shows you how seri
-
ously we are taking the e˛ort. 
We and our regulators have a common 
interest to build and sustain a strong and 
safe ˛nancial system
Signi˚cant progress has been made in building a safer ˚nancial system since the 
˚nancial crisis. There is far more capital 

and liquidity in the global banking system. 
The new stress tests will be instrumental 
in ensuring that the ˚nancial system is 
sound and that each and every bank has an 

extremely low chance of failure. This is a 

good outcome. We all saw how bad a ˚nan
-
cial crisis can be Œ and none of us want to 

see it again. In addition, many of the root 

causes of the crisis have been addressed. For 

example, most o˛-balance sheet vehicles are 

gone, standards are in place to improve mort
-
gage underwriting, leverage everywhere in 

the system is lower, and very few risky and 

exotic derivatives are being used. Addition
-
ally, both Board-level and regulatory over
-sight is more exacting for all ˚nancial ˚rms.
We also share a common interest in elimi
-nating ﬁtoo big to fail,ﬂ and we believe the 

new authorities under Dodd-Frank for orderly 

liquidation and living wills create the condi-tions to eliminate too big to fail. Clearly, more 

work needs to be done, but we are collabo
-rating closely with the regulators to accom-plish this goal. Because when it is done, the 

market, regulators and politicians should have 

con˚dence that big banks can be bankrupted 

in a way that does not damage the economy 

and is not paid for by taxpayers. 
March 5, 2013 
Dear colleagues ŒWhen it comes to complying with the rules and regulations that govern our industry and our company, there 
is no room for compromise. We must always and will always follow not only the letter but the spirit of the 
law. As many of you have heard Jamie say (on multiple occasions): There is no piece of business, no deal, no 

revenue stream that is more important than our obligation to act responsibly, ethically and within the rules.
While every company makes mistakes, the hallmark of a great company is to learn from them and to 
continually grow and improve. And that is precisely what we have committed ourselves to do. We will meet 

that commitment, and every other commitment we have made to our regulators. We are devoting substantial 
resources to that e˜ort Œ in the form of improved systems, new project plans, and good old-fashioned sweat 
and hard work.
Compliance isn™t just the province of our Compliance Department or other control functions; it is everyone™s 
responsibility. ALL of us, from our technologists to our traders, from our loan o˚cers to our tellers, from our 
security guards to our securities salespeople, from our call center personnel to our portfolio managers, are 

guardians of the company™s reputation and accountable when it comes to following the rules. 
There are 260,000 employees of this company working to serve more than 50 million customers Œ 
individuals, companies, governments and nonpro˛ts Œ every day. All of you do remarkable work to 
help our customers achieve their goals. Remember that in everything we do, all of us must live by the 
following values:
1.
 Most important, treat our clients like you would a member of your own family. If you see a product feature 
you wouldn™t feel comfortable selling to a relative, then we shouldn™t be selling it to our clients, either. 
2. Know the rules that apply to you, your business and your activities. If you don™t know or you™re unsure 
what those are, ask.
3. Follow those rules to the letter. But following them to the letter isn™t enough. Understand the ﬁwhyﬂ 
behind them and live within their spirit as well as their letter.
4. If you have any doubt about something you or someone else is doing, say something Œ to a colleague, to 
your manager, to Compliance, to Audit. And you can always call our Employee Hotline Œ which is sta˜ed 
24/7 and is available to our employees everywhere we do business around the globe.
5.
 Good compliance requires constant vigilance. Sometimes products change, and sometimes standards evolve.
6. Don™t assume someone else is taking care of ˛xing the problem across the company. Follow up, follow up, 
follow up to ensure your partners in other businesses can bene˛t from what you™ve learned. 
We are so proud of what we do, day in and day out, for the clients and communities we serve. Thank you for 

all of your e˜orts every day to work on this. Together, we can make this company even stronger in the future.
Message from the Operating Committee10We learned 
 Š or were painfully reminded 
of Š hard lessons from the London Whale 
problem
It™s impossible to look back on the past year 
and not talk about the London Whale. Let 

me be direct: The London Whale was the 

stupidest and most embarrassing situation 

I have ever been a part of. But it is critical 

that we learn from the experience Œ other
-wise, it truly was nothing but a loss. I also 

want our shareholders to know that I take 

personal responsibility for what happened. 

I deeply apologize to you, our shareholders, 

and to others, including our regulators, 

who were a˛ected by this mistake. Here 

are some of the lifelong lessons we either 

learned (or were painfully reminded of) 

from the CIO problem.Fight complacency 
Complacency sets in when you start 

assuming that tomorrow will look more or 
less like today Œ and when you stop looking 

at yourself and your colleagues with a tough, 

honest, critical eye. Avoiding complacency 

means inviting others to question your logic 

and decisions in a disciplined way. Even 

when Œ and especially when Œ things have 

been going well for a long time, rigorous 

reviews must always take place.
Originally, the synthetic credit CIO portfolio 
(begun in 2007) was meant to help protect 

the ˚rm™s overall credit exposure by o˛set
-
ting losses in the event there was a credit 

crisis. It worked and essentially accom
-
plished its intended objectives for many 

years. In late 2011, we asked the CIO team to 

reduce the portfolio for a variety of reasons. 

It was at this point that a new strategy was 

devised, which actually added to the risk. 

This new strategy was ˝awed, complex, 

poorly reviewed, poorly executed and poorly 

monitored. Given the portfolio™s success 

over time, we had become complacent, and 

we weren™t as rigorous and skeptical as we 

should have been. 
Overcome con˜ict avoidance
Sometimes people don™t ask hard ques-
tions because they want to avoid con˝ict. 

That cannot be the way we operate. 

Confronting people when necessary or 

asking hard questions is not an insult. It 

doesn™t mean you lack collegiality or don™t 

trust the individual. In fact, asking hard 

questions is what we owe one another to 

protect ourselves from mistakes and self-

in˝icted wounds.
Risk Management 101: Controls must match risk
Controls, risk limits and authorities should 

be appropriate to the kind of activity being 
conducted. We should have had more 

and very speci˚c rules and requirements 

around the synthetic credit portfolio Œ but 

we didn™t. Tighter and more appropri
-
ately speci˚c limits could have caught the 

problem earlier and reduced its impact. I know we will always make mistakes Œ 
that is unavoidable. What we continually 

strive for is to keep those mistakes small 

and infrequent. I certainly hope the London 
Whale is the largest mistake I am ever a 

part of. 
We had a gap in our fortress wall. For a 
company that prides itself on risk manage
-
ment, this was a real kick in the teeth. You 

can rest assured we are focused on learning 

the right lessons, putting the right people 

and controls in place, and doing everything 

we can to prevent something like this from 

happening again. 
Trust 
and verify
That™s why we have a risk committee 

framework within the ˚rm with extremely 

detailed reporting and many other checks 

and balances (like reputation committees, 

underwriting committees and others) to 
make sure we have a disciplined process 

in place to question our own thinking so 
we can spot mistakes before they do real 

damage. Our employees on risk and other 

committees are expected to ask questions, 

raise concerns and ensure that corrective 

action is taken Œ that is their job. Verifying 

does not mean you don™t have trust Œ it™s an 

acknowledgment that we operate in a tough 

and complex world. 
11Problems don™t age well
To paraphrase some good advice, if you see 
anything that doesn™t look right, raise your 

hand and say something. We tell our people 

to escalate problems early so we can bring 

more resources to bear on solving them. And 

we don™t blame the messenger here. Those 

who highlight problems are doing this ˚rm a 
great service. 
Continue to share what you know when you 
 know it
On April 13, 2012, when we were announcing 
our earnings, we made some unfortunate 

statements, including my ﬁtempest in a 

teapotﬂ comment. At the time, everyone 

involved thought we had a small problem Œ 

nothing more. Several weeks later, when it 

became clear that we were dead wrong, we 

made an unusual and embarrassing public 
statement disclosing our mounting losses 
and communicating how wrong we had been 

just a few weeks earlier. We were right to 

share that information at that time. 
We also said we would give shareholders 
and investors much more informa
-
tion on July 13, 2012, when we would be 

announcing 2Q12 earnings. We did just that, 

and, after reviewing tens of thousands of 

emails, reports and phone call tapes, we also 

restated our 1Q12 earnings. In the mean
-
time, the company continued its extensive 

review, guided by the Board of Directors, 

and the Board independently conducted 

its own review as well. Both these reviews 

were made public in January of this year. 

All the recommendations from both reports 

have been or are in the process of being 

fully implemented. 
After ˚nding out about the extent of the CIO 
problem, we started to actively reduce the 
risk in the synthetic credit portfolio. We told 

our shareholders that we hoped it would be 

a non-issue by the end of 2012, and it basi
-
cally was. Today, the risk is a fraction of what 

it was.  We have transferred the remaining 

positions to the Investment Bank, which 
 
is well-suited to manage these exposures. 
 
We no longer maintain a synthetic credit 

portfolio in CIO.
Mistakes have consequences 
You also should know that we took strong 

action with those who were directly and 

indirectly involved. We replaced the manage
-
ment team responsible for the losses, we 

invoked comprehensive clawbacks of 

previously granted awards and/or repay
-
ment of previously vested awards for those 

with primary responsibility (more than 
$100 million was recaptured), we reduced 

or eliminated compensation for a group 

of employees, and your Chief Executive 

O˜cer and Chief Financial O˜cer saw their 

compensation reduced by the Board as a 

result of this embarrassing episode. 
Never lose sight of the main mission: 
 serving clients 
When I realized the severity of the problem, 
I was completely aware that in addition to 

the ˚nancial loss, the regulatory, media and 

political pressures would be extreme Œ on me 

personally, on the senior management team 

and on the entire company. Much of this was 

deserved (and, believe me, we were our own 

toughest critic). I knew we would solve the 

CIO problem, but I worried that it would have 

an impact on our employees throughout the 

˚rm, their morale and their ability to stay 

focused on serving our clients. It would have 

been a terrible shame if the CIO problem was 

allowed to damage the rest of the company 

and detract from all the good things we do. 

Fortunately, that didn™t happen. Our people, to 

their great credit, continued to do their jobs, 

serving our clients and keeping the company 

on track Œ while those charged with ˚xing 

the CIO problem mitigated the impact and 

managed the exposure down. 
When the going got tough, we learned what the 
people of JPMorgan Chase are made of Š and 
they made us proud
In this time of need, hundreds of our senior 
employees volunteered to step in and help. 

They worked around the clock, seven days 

a week, for many months to try to ˚x this 

problem and limit the damage. We can™t 

thank them enough. A company built on 

individuals like that is built to last.
12We will be a port of safety in the next storm
We are fully committed to strengthening 
our company by working with our regula
-
tors and being in full compliance with the 

spirit and letter of the law. Eventually, when 

this e˛ort is done, it will make us an even 

stronger company. We want the public, 

our regulators and our shareholders to 

have con˚dence that we are 
the safest and 

soundest bank on the planet. When the people of JPMorgan Chase put 
their collective minds and muscle behind 

something, what we™re capable of accom
-
plishing is extraordinary. This is the 

company that was able to buy Bear Stearns 

and Washington Mutual and assimilate them 

Œ an enormously complex job of managing 

risk, systems and people Œ in less than a year. 
JPMorgan Chase was a port of safety in the 

last storm Œ a source of strength, not weak
-
ness, for the global economy. We tried to do 

things to help Œ and sometimes took bold 
actions to do it. In prior Annual Reports, we 

told you we cannot promise you results but 

that we do promise you, among other things, 

consistent e˛ort and integrity. In that spirit 

Œ I make this promise: 
We will be a port of 

safety in the next storm.  13The ˚ve years since the ˚nancial crisis 
began have been a time of turmoil and 

rapid change for countries, companies, indi
-
viduals and your company. Your company 

survived, and even thrived, as we served 

our clients. But global economies still are 

not strong, large regulatory changes are 

looming and banks have been subjected to 

extreme criticism. Here is an honest assess
-
ment of where we are, both good and bad, 
and how your company is working to be 
successful in the future.
The needs of the global economy are large 
and still growing
All the issues since the ˚nancial crisis will not 
stem the growing needs of countries, compa
-nies and individuals over time. That growth 

will be in global multinationals, in large 

infrastructure projects and in global cross-
border capital ˝ows Œ all increasingly in the 

emerging markets. Consider the following:

projected to grow an average of 5% per 

year through 2017, from $71 trillion in 2012 

to $93 trillion in 2017. 
require an estimated $57 trillion in infra-
structure investment between now and 

2030 Œ this is 60% more than the $36 tril-
lion spent over the past 18 years. 


for 40% to 50% of this infrastructure 

spending. 




exports Œ an average rate of 11% per year 

between 2001 and 2011, from $7.7 trillion to 

$22.4 trillion Œ will continue, if not accelerate.
II.  
A FRANK ASSESSMENT OF WHERE OUR COUNTRY 
 AND THE WORLD ARE TODAY Š THE OPPORTUNITIES 
AND CHALLENGES 


grown by over four times in the last two 
decades, from $1 trillion in 1992 to $5 tril
-
lion in 2012. While these ˝ows have slowed 

down recently, they, more likely than not, 

will continue to increase in the future.


of total global capital ˝ows over the last 

˚ve years, from 22% in 2007 to 38% in 

2012. This trend is likely to continue as 

well.



-nationals were from developing countries, 

and by 2012, that number had increased 

to more than 125. Also, by 2012, 32% of 

global capital ˝ows Œ vs. 5% in 2000 Œ went 

to emerging economies. Among emerging 

economies, China and India will account for 

the greatest number of new multinationals 

over the next 15 years. 


 now lives in urban areas for the ˚rst time 

in history, and by 2050, that number is 

expected to grow to 70%. This mass 
 
urbanization will create cities on a scale 
beyond what most of the world has seen. 

Providing the infrastructure and clean 

water, schooling, healthcare and social 

safety nets (to name just a few) to antici-
pate, accommodate and sustain this growth 

will be hugely challenging. 

and businesses were $219 trillion in 2011 

and are projected to grow at a compound 
annual growth rate of 6% through 2020 to 
roughly $370 trillion.Banks Œ large global banks with broad 

capabilities designed to serve the needs of 
global clients in particular Œ will be essen-tial to meeting these large, growing and 
complex needs. 
14We must be vigilant Š we operate in a 
challenging and complex part of the global 
economy 
Today, our ˚rm serves clients in more than 
100 markets around the world. To support 

those clients, we move up to $10 trillion a day 

and lend or raise capital of nearly $500 billion 

a quarter. The markets we operate in cover 5.6 

billion people who speak over 100 languages 

and use close to 50 currencies. Our ˚rm 

provides support to these clients 24 hours a 

day, 365 days a year Œ across all time zones. 
The speed of markets and the constant 
application of new technology are increasing 

exponentially. While this has provided some 

positive outcomes, including lower costs and 

greater ease of use, it also creates additional 

risks and problems Œ from cybersecurity to 
ﬁ˝ash crashes.ﬂ
History reminds us that there always have 
been, and always will be, so-called ﬁblack 

swans.ﬂ Some are out in the open Œ like the 

turmoil in the Middle East, the Eurozone 

crisis and the potential for nuclear prolifera
-
tion in unstable parts of the world. Others Œ 

ranging from natural disasters to man-made 
events Œ will surprise us, and we must be 

prepared for those as well. These black swans 

occur throughout history, from the recent 

unexpected change in government in Egypt 

and other spots in the Middle East back to 

1914, when the world slipped into World 

War I due to the domino e˛ect of multiple 

defense treaties. 
Keeping in mind the changing geopolitical 
and economic events that can render any 

static analysis irrelevant, I do want to share 

some thoughts about the situations in 
Europe and the United States.
Europe is making progress, but it remains a 
serious issueEurope has made progress in solving its issues. Italy and Spain have moved forward 

with their austerity programs, the European 

Central Bank has made powerful commit
-
ments to maintain sovereign debt and bank 

liquidity, and the Eurozone has taken mean
-
ingful steps to advance its banking union. 

The key European leaders appear devoted to 

doing whatever they need to do in order to 

save the Eurozone and the euro.
However, it still is going to be a very complex 

and prolonged challenge. There will be many 

months when things seem safe and sound, 

but we should not be lulled into a false sense 

of safety. At a minimum, this serenity will 

be disturbed by elections, disputes, policy 

shifts and unforecasted events as these 17 

nations try to resolve some very complicated 

issues over several years. It will be a long and 

winding road. We all are rooting for them to succeed and 
are actively trying to help. But we also need 

to be prepared for potential bad outcomes 

while continuing to support our clients and 
the governments and people of Europe.
The U.S. economic situation is getting better
The current economy in the U.S. is fairly 

healthy. Companies, both large and small, 

are in increasingly better shape Œ margins 

are high, and leverage is low. The banking 

system has largely recovered, and the capital 

markets, for the most part, are wide open. 

Nearly 5 million more people are employed 

today than four years ago, and the population 

is still growing by 3 million people a year. 

Consumers™ debt service ratio; i.e., the amount 

of income needed to service their debt, which 

peaked at 14.09% in 2007, now is down to 

10.30% Œ back to its 
lowest level since 1980, 

when the ratio ˚rst was calculated. Housing 

has turned the corner, and we have been 

blessed with new discoveries in oil and gas. 
Good public policy could create even 
stronger growth Œ uncertainty has become 
the norm. Political gridlock and the inability 

to craft and pass even a ﬁbaby bargainﬂ 

(although we all would have preferred a 

ﬁgrand bargainﬂ) have left the future ˚scal 

situation untenable and future tax poli-
cies unclear. Then you add in a debt ceiling 

crisis and ˚scal cli˛ scenario Œ you get my 

point. Con˚dence, which usually is the 

secret sauce for the economy, for both indi
-
viduals and companies, gets eroded. All this 

is impeding our ability to grow as fast as we 

could and should. 
15The solutions actually are well-known. What 
we need is good old-fashioned collaboration 

and compromise. Growth will lead to more 

jobs and, we hope, more prosperity for all. 
The United States still is in an extraordinarily 
good position If you look past the immediate economic 
situation and the recent ˚nancial crisis and 
take stock of the overall picture, the United 

States is in a great position. Let™s look at our 

outstanding strengths:

est military, and this will be the case for 

decades. We also are fortunate to be at 

peace with our neighbors and to have the 

protection of two great oceans.



universities and hospitals.


corruption.

great work ethic and ﬁcan doﬂ attitude. 

-neurial and innovative people in the world 

Œ from those who work on the factory ˝oors 

to the geniuses like Steve Jobs. Improving 

ﬁthingsﬂ and increasing productivity is an 

American pastime. And America still fosters 

an entrepreneurial culture where risk taking 

is allowed Œ accepting that it can result in 

success or failure. 


 the best businesses on the planet Œ from 

small and middle sized to large global 

multinationals. 

deepest, most transparent and best ˚nan
-
cial markets in the world. And I™m not 

talking about just Wall Street and banks Œ 
 
I include the whole mosaic: venture capital, 

private equity, asset managers, individual 

and corporate investors, and the public 

and private capital markets. Our ˚nancial 

markets have been an essential part of the 

great American business machine.
All Americans today bene˚t from what 

our forefathers struggled to build Œ from 

democracy itself to what is still the best 

economy in the world. We bene˚t from the 

hundreds of trillions of dollars that have 

been invested over the centuries in research 

and development, in public infrastructure 

and in our companies. When my grandfa
-
ther was born in 1897, there was nothing 

that resembled the healthcare and tech
-
nology of today Œ there were no cars, planes, 

phones, TVs or computers. Technology and 

exponentially growing human knowledge 

are like the energy of ﬁdark matterﬂ Œ it is 

everywhere Œ and it will drive productivity 

and growth for decades. I have little doubt 

that a hundred years from now, there will 

be new technologies that, today, we never 

could have imagined. 
While the wounds of the ˚nancial crisis still 
are healing and too many Americans still are 

struggling, the country actually may be in 
a better position today than it has ever been in. In fact, Americans born today hold a far better 

hand than Americans who were born 50 or 

100 years ago Œ we all clearly stand on the 

shoulders of all those who came before us.
America, however, does not have a divine right 
 to success
Great potential and past glory do not guar-antee future success. This is true for compa
-nies, and it is true for countries. America 

does not have a divine right to success Œ we 

have some serious issues to address. Our 

immigration policy is ˝awed. We have yet 

to ˚nd a way for law-abiding but undocu
-
mented immigrants to stay in this country. 

And it is alarming that approximately 40% 

of those who receive advanced degrees in 

science, technology, engineering and math at 

American universities are foreign nationals 

with no legal way of staying here even when 

many of them would choose to do so. 
We need ˚ve- to 20-year intelligent infra
-structure plans (electrical grids, roads, 

tunnels, bridges, airports, etc.) for our cities, 

states and federal government. We also need 

better opportunities for all our citizens, and 

that can™t happen when 50% of our high 
school students in the inner cities fail to 

graduate. And without rational, long-term 

˚scal policy, including cost-e˛ective reform 
CYBERSECURITY BECOMES AN ISSUE OF GLOBAL IMPORTANCE AND IS 
CRITICAL TO OUR COMPANY
Cybersecurity is a critical priority for the entire company, from the CEO on down. Cybersecurity is increasingly 
becoming more complex and more dangerous. Originally, fairly simplistic computer hackers, often taking over 

other people™s personal computers, would do things like ﬁphishﬂ for personal information, hoping to steal some 
money or simply try to wreak havoc by slowing down the ability of consumers to get into our sites (these generally 
are called denial of service attacks).
The new e˜orts often are state sanctioned and coordinated, using hundreds of programmers and frequently taking 
over servers and other powerful computers to orchestrate their attacks. The new attacks are more complex, more 

sophisticated and faster, operating at speeds and volumes thousands of times greater than a few years ago. These 
attacks are meant to disrupt service to hurt the American economy, steal money or rob intellectual property. 
Serving our clients and keeping their information safe is our key priority Š we will stand behind our clients, and 
they will not be responsible for any losses from this malicious activity. We are actively engaged and will devote any 

and all resources to protect ourselves, our clients and our country Š but we must confess that this issue worries 

us. Each year, JPMorgan Chase spends approximately $200 million to protect ourselves from cyberwarfare and to 
make sure our data are safe and secure. This number will grow dramatically over the next three years. More than 
600 employees across the ˚rm are dedicated to the task. And this number likely will grow as well.
In addition to protecting our perimeter (people trying to get into our systems from the outside), we are bee˚ng up 
our processes to monitor and detect internal threats. We increasingly limit access to high-risk systems and monitor 

activities that could indicate problems. We also are increasingly monitoring related third-party systems (e.g., 
exchanges, etc.) to make sure their protections are adequate. 
Managing cybersecurity threats requires collective action. Hackers always will seek the weakest links in the 
network chain. So in addition to making sure there are no weak links within the JPMorgan Chase systems, you can 

rest assured that we are working closely with the appropriate government agencies and with other businesses to 

continue to enhance our defenses and improve our resiliency to the cybersecurity threats facing many industries. 
I recently met with President Obama and a small group of CEOs from various companies to discuss the issue of 
cybersecurity. The government is in the best position to see all the attacks on businesses Š not just the ones we 

see Š and to continue to help businesses adjust defenses and enhance their cybersecurity. 
16of our entitlement programs Œ it will not be possible to establish a proper safety net 
and to create the incentive for consumers to 

responsibly take care of their health. It also 

is time to reform both the individual and 

corporate tax codes, which are confusing, 

ine˜cient and costly. Our corporate tax 

policies are, at the margin, driving capital 

overseas, just as, at the margin, our immigra
-
tion policies are driving brainpower back 

overseas. The good news is that all these 

problems are known, and they are solvable. 

Fixing these issues would greatly increase 

American prosperity for decades. I also 

suspect it would improve income equality, a 

cherished American ideal.
While the U.S. political system appears to 

be in deep gridlock today, it always has been 

able to ˚nd its way forward. America has 

exhibited extraordinary resiliency through its 

darkest moments Œ and I wouldn™t bet against 

her today. The future is extremely bright, but 

we are still going to have to 
earn it. Expansionary global ˚scal and monetary policies 
may create additional potential risky outcomes 
Governments around the world, partially but 
not entirely due to the crisis, generally have 

been spending more money than they take in. 

And central banks, mostly as a reaction to the 

global ˚nancial crisis, essentially have been 
17creating money (called Quantitative Easing) to 
keep rates low and foster a stronger recovery. 

For the most part, these policies have helped 

the world economy recover Œ particularly 

in the United States. But this medicine is 

untested, and it may have severe aftere˛ects. 

This especially is true if ˚scal policy makes 

it increasingly harder for central banks to 

slowly remove some of the monetary stim
-
ulus. Good ˚scal policy and any policies that 

create growth will make the central banks™ 

job easier. Higher interest rates and a little 

bit of in˝ation won™t matter much if we have 

strong job growth, good pro˚tability and 

general prosperity.
We don™t know the outcome of all these 
e˛orts. While it is entirely possible that we 

will manage through the process without 

too much su˛ering, there also are some 

fairly coherent arguments that suggest there 

could be signi˚cant negative consequences. 

We cannot ignore this possibility and must 

safeguard against unintended and adverse 

outcomes. One such scenario would be 

rapidly raising rates without strong growth. 

In the recent past, in 1994 and 2004, interest 

rates, both short term and long term, rose 

about 300 basis points within approxi
-
mately a one-year period. In 1994, such 

action was unexpected, and it caused real 

damage for many who were unprepared 

(i.e., the failure of Orange County and 

signi˚cant ˚nancial losses at several ˚nan
-
cial and non-˚nancial institutions). In 2004, 

the increase in rates was more expected Œ 

institutions probably had additional tools at 

their disposal to manage it, and the damage 

was far more limited.
Although we are not predicting it, we need to 
be prepared for rapidly rising rates, poten
-
tially even worse than we have seen in recent 

history. One of the ways we do this is to posi
-
tion our company Œ if all things are equal Œ 

so we can bene˚t from rapidly rising interest 

rates. As we currently are positioned, if rates 

went up 300 basis points, our pre-tax pro˚ts 

would increase by approximately $5 billion 

over a one-year period. Remember, however, 

that all things are not equal, and that $5 

billion of improved income should be looked 
at as an additional cushion to protect us from 

other bad outcomes. You should know that 

it costs us a signi˚cant amount of current 
income to be positioned this way. But we 

believe it is better to be safe than sorry.
The needs of our clients are substantial and 
growing 
In the years to come, the needs of our clients 
and customers will not only grow but will 
become more global and complex. This 

includes companies™ needs for ˚nancing 

Œ loans, equity, debt and trade Œ and stra
-
tegic advice; investors™ needs for execution, 

research and best prices; and individuals™ 

needs for asset management, mortgages, 

credit and ˚nancial advice. Lots of things 

will change Œ products, pricing, new tech
-
nologies Œ but the needs of our clients for 

our services and advice will be as strong as 

ever. Our bank is uniquely positioned to help 

clients bene˚t from those opportunities and 
overcome those challenges. The following 

examples highlight just how large those 

needs will be:


large and growing capital and investing 

needs in the future. McKinsey estimates 

that corporate equity and debt issuer 

demand could grow 25%-30% over the 

next ˚ve years, while global investor client 

demand could grow 20%-25% by 2017. 

These needs will drive real underlying 

growth of the corporate and investment 

banking business. JPMorgan Chase is in 

the sweet spot because much of the growth 
will be with our clients Œ large, often 

multinational companies, government-

related entities and large global investors. 

Our role as an underwriter of securities, 

as a provider of payment services and as a 

market maker places us right in the center 

of key money ˝ows.



-ally never have been greater. More and more 

companies of all sizes are conducting busi-ness cross border. Even in our U.S. Middle 

Market business, international expertise 

is becoming an essential service. All these 

companies need the right partner Œ and one 

with global capabilities and perspective Œ as 

they enter unfamiliar territory. 
18

looking for opportunities in the United 
States; Brazilian companies are looking 
at India; Indian companies are looking at 
Europe; European companies are looking 
at Africa; and so on. Our global network 

serves all their needs Œ inbound, outbound 

and locally.


mid-sized enterprises are projected to 
grow at 6% a year through 2020, from 

$2.2 trillion in 2012 to $3.5 trillion in 
2020. At JPMorgan Chase, loans to middle 

market companies have grown from $34.2 

billion in 2009 to $50.7 billion in 2012 Œ a 
compound annual growth rate of 14%.


-viduals globally rose from $33 trillion in 
2008 to $42 trillion in 2011 Œ up nearly 9% 
on a compound annual growth rate. These 

assets are projected to grow at an average 

annual growth rate of about 6% through 
2020. We serve this market and, over the 

past few years, have increased our market 

share by 13%.


an average of 6% per year over the last 

decade, from $27 trillion in 2002 to $50 

trillion in 2012. McKinsey estimates U.S. 

consumer ˚nancial assets will continue to 
grow at a similar rate through 2020.



individual consumers use ˚nancial services 
Œ beyond traditional products Œ also are 

increasing. Examples include depositing 

a check by taking its picture, moving 

funds around the world with the push of 

a button, banking via the smartphone and 

utilizing person-to-person payment tools.
While the global environment is challenging 

and complicated, we are fairly con˚dent that 

the number of clients who need our services, 

and the services they need, will continue to 

grow over time. 
19III.  
JPMORGAN CHASE FACES THE FUTURE WITH A 
STRONG HAND 
While we do operate in a tough world with 
huge, growing competitors and rapidly 

changing regulations and technologies, we 

enter the arena with a strong hand, built up 

over hundreds of years. One could not easily 

replicate the extraordinary reach and capa
-
bilities of JPMorgan Chase. 
We have extraordinary relationships developed 
over decades
JPMorgan Chase does business with 5,000 
issuer and 16,000 investor client accounts 

around the world. More than 50 million 

consumer households rely on Chase for 

their banking needs as do 2.2 million middle 
market and small businesses in the United 

States. They trust us, they are happy to see 

us, and they value our ideas and assistance. 

That™s why they do a lot of business with us. 

The average corporate client uses four of our 

products and services, the average consumer 

uses eight of our products and services, and 

the average middle market company uses 

nine. These numbers have been growing 

over time, and we expect the trend to 

continue as our product set expands, our 

network extends, and the ease and cost of 

doing business with us improves over time. 
Each of our businesses is among the best in its 
˚eld Š and each gains strength from being part of 
the wholeEvery single one of our businesses is 
growing, is strongly pro˚table and is a 

formidable competitor. Each is a leader in its 

respective ˚eld. Our individual businesses 

also get competitive advantages from being 

a part of the whole Œ each business is able 

to o˛er more products, at a lower cost, to 

more clients. The evidence is in the cross 

selling that takes place across the company 

Œ we estimate that approximately $14 billion 

of revenue comes from cross selling and 

synergies across the businesses. Presumably, 

customers buy additional products from us 
because they choose to do so, ˚nding it easier 

and less costly. We are able to deliver that 
value at lower costs due to our purchasing 

power and the highly e˜cient use of global 

data networks, data centers and other 
 
operating systems. We estimate that this 

represents a $3 billion cost e˜ciency bene˚t. 
All our businesses also bene˚t from our 
wonderful brand. 
There are reasons that our businesses are grouped together, and the proof is in the 

results. We believe one of the reasons we 

have strong ˚nancial performance is that 

we can use these cross-selling and e˜ciency 

bene˚ts to give the customer more while also 

earning a reasonable return for our share
-
holders. If those reasons ever cease to exist 

Œ as evidenced by our customers choosing 

alternative products and services Œ we obvi
-
ously would make appropriate adjustments 

to our business strategies. 
At our recent Investor Day on February 26, 
2013, we made extensive presentations 
 
about each of our businesses and discussed 

where we think our competitive advantages 

lie. These presentations are found on 
 
our website and at the following link: 
 
investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/

presentations.cfm
.We have maintained a fortress balance sheet Š 
and we generate plenty of capital to invest
JPMorgan Chase ended the year with a 
 Basel I Tier 1 common ratio of 11.0% 

compared with 10.1% at year-end 2011. 
 
The company estimated that its Basel III 
 
Tier 1 common ratio was approximately 
 
8.7% at year-end 2012.
A fortress balance sheet to us is strong 
capital, liquidity and margins. We also 

believe in conservative accounting, rapid 
recognition of problems and strong risk management, including quality clients and 

good underwriting, among other criteria. 

Policies and principles like these protect the 

company in all types of weather.
20Our fortress balance sheet, including our 
strong return on capital, provides us with 

excess capital to invest, and we always are 

thinking way ahead about the best ways to 

deploy it. As we have said in the past, after 

steadily increasing dividends, our favorite 

deployment is in growing our businesses. 

After investing in the growth of our busi
-
nesses, we look at other ways to use the 

remaining excess capital. One use we 

consider is buying back stock Œ but only at 
 
a price we think is good for shareholders. 
In March, we passed the Federal Reserve 
Board™s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and 

Review (CCAR) stress test, which allows the 

˜rm to increase the dividend (the Board of 
Directors intends to increase the dividend 
to $0.38 per share e˚ective in the second 

quarter of 2013 Œ where it was before the 

crisis) and to repurchase an additional 

$6 billion of common equity. The equity 

buyback plan is less than half of what it was 

last year because we would like to get to our 

target Basel III Tier 1 common ratio of 9.5% 

by the end of 2013. 
We are strong believers in proper stress 

testing Œ we do hundreds of stress tests each 

week, primarily on our market-sensitive posi
-tions and on multiple di˚erent scenarios as 

well. And while we passed the Federal Reserve 

Board™s CCAR stress test (the Federal Reserve 

Board did not object to our proposed capital 

distribution plan), we were asked to submit an 

additional capital plan by the end of the third 

quarter addressing the weaknesses identi˜ed 

in our capital planning process. Following 

its review, the Federal Reserve Board may 

require us to modify our capital distributions. 

We are dramatically increasing the resources 

deployed and hope to successfully address all 

the weaknesses identi˜ed. As in everything 

else, we will strive to be best in class in the 
CCAR stress test.In recent years, the company has been able 
to grow its business, increase its dividend, 
buy back stock 
and materially increase its capital ratios (which, as you can see in the 

chart below, are much stronger Œ particularly 

if they are applied on a consistent basis). 

˜˜˜˜˜
˜˜
˜˚˛˝
˜˚˛˝
˙˚ˆ˝
ˇ˛˚ˇ˝
ˇˇ˚˛˝
ˇ˛˚˘˝
ˇˇ
ˇˇ˝
˙˚˝
ˇ˝
ˆ˚˜˝
ˆ˚ˆ˝

˜
JPMorgan Chase Capital Levels
  *  
Assumes analyst estimates for net income, dividends and share repurchases
**  
New market risk rules (Basel 2.5) came into e˜ect 1/1/13
21˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˛˜
˜
˜˜˜
˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˛˛˛˛˛˛We Are Expanding Our Global Platform
The investments we™ve made in the past few 
years have and will continue to drive results
The most important thing we can do with 
our capital is to invest in ways to grow our 
company, building great, long-term pro˚t
-able businesses. We work hard to use our 
capital wisely. We generate enough capital 
to be able to invest at scale and on 
 a continual basis. 
For example, in the last ˚ve years, we have 
built more than 800 new Chase branches, 

and since 2011, we added 1,200 Chase Private 

Client locations. We also have added about 

770 small business bankers and hired 

approximately 500 Private Bank client advi
-
sors and approximately 300 Investment 

Management salespeople and investors since 

the beginning of 2010. And we have hired 

approximately 400 people in the Global 

Corporate Bank, which includes about 185 

bankers, since the end of 2009.
We continue to grow internationally. In 2012, 

we opened a new wholesale branch in Russia 

and our seventh branch in China Œ bringing 

our total to 102 wholesale branch and o˜ce 

locations worldwide (non-U.S.) (see map).
We continually roll out new products. For 
example, this past year, in Consumer & 

Community Banking, we launched Chase 

LiquidSM, a great new prepaid product 
with no hidden fees; one low, ˝at cost; and 

unmatched ˝exibility in giving consumers 

cost-free access to Chase ATMs and 

branches, direct deposit and other services 

traditionally associated with regular bank 

accounts. We also continue to increase the 

customers using our new credit card prod-
ucts, including Chase Sapphire
SM and Chase 
Freedom
SM for consumers and Ink
SM for 
small businesses. In Asset Management, we 

consistently introduce investment products. 

And in our Corporate & Investment Bank, 

we ˚nished building Access, a sophisticated 

new global cash management product for 

sophisticated corporations. 
22These investments enable us to extend 
the bene˚ts of the products and services 
we provide and to attract new clients and 

revenue at a fraction of the ˚xed and over
-head costs. And they create a ﬁnetwork 

e˛ect,ﬂ which enables us to serve clients in 

multiple locations. These investments should 

drive results for years. 
We are e˛cient and already have a good return 
on tangible equity
Even after our investments in the future, we 
delivered a healthy 15% return on tangible 

common equity. We already have a fairly 

e˜cient cost structure Œ each business is 

competitive in its ˚eld. And we try to main
-
tain good expense discipline; i.e., eliminating 

bad expenses (that are not productive) 

but keeping good expenses (e.g., training, 

new systems, etc.). Just because we don™t 

announce new major expense reduction 

initiatives with fancy names does not mean 

we are not watching expenses like a hawk. 

We are continuously driving costs down. 
We have extraordinary capabilities Š 
 technological, risk and credit, and deep 
 knowledge, among others
We have 20,000 programmers, application 
developers and information technology 

employees who tirelessly keep our 31 data 

centers, 56,000 servers, 22,000 databases, 

325,000 physical desktops, virtual desk
-
tops and laptops, and global networks up 

and running. We spend over $8 billion on 

systems and technology every year. 
Additionally, we have nearly 6,500 profes
-sionals on approximately 120 trading desks 

in 25 trading centers around the world; 

these professionals include more than 800 
research analysts who educate investors on 

over 4,000 companies and provide insight on 

40 developed and emerging markets. These 

professionals provide our investor clients 

with research expertise, advice and execution 

capabilities to help them buy and sell securi-
ties and other ˚nancial instruments. We also 

rely on approximately 4,000 risk and credit 

o˜cers to manage our various exposures, 

including the $3.4 billion of new lending  
we extend on average every day and the 
 
$1 trillion we trade and settle every day.
We have deep knowledge about global 

markets, countries, economies and policies. 

We know a tremendous amount about our 

clients and their needs, and you™ll be hearing 

more in future years as we increasingly use 

Big Data to manage risk, o˛er our clients 

more targeted products and services, and 

give them additional information to make 

thoughtful decisions. 
We have strong and capable global management
The individuals who manage our global busi-
nesses are exceptional. Our senior leadership 

team Œ more than 300 strong Œ is experi
-
enced, knowledgeable and capable. These 

individuals have signi˚cant tenure at the 

company, are based around the world and 

are globally savvy. And (we are working to 

increase these statistics) 25% are women, 

and about 20% are ethnically diverse. These 

managers are thoughtful and mature, and 

they focus on getting things done and done 

right. They work together and share the 

decision-making process, tapping the group™s 

collective wisdom to deal with issues. It™s 

wonderful to watch. It is as good a team of 

senior leaders as I™ve ever had the privilege 

to work with.
I truly believe you are an owner of one 
exceptional company.
23Our global presence and scale enable us to understand what is happening in the world 

and to use that knowledge and our capabili-
ties to support our clients and communities. 
We never will lose focus on the reason we 
are here: to serve our clients
We at JPMorgan Chase Œ from your CEO 
to each and every individual around the 

world Œ never will forget that we are here 

only because we have clients to serve. All our 

resources, both directly and indirectly, are 

brought to bear to help our clients achieve 

their objectives. We want our clients to get 

the full bene˚t of our capabilities. When we 

do that, the outcome bene˚ts our clients, as 

well as our company. And that contributes 

to the broad-based, global economic growth 

that is needed to address the biggest chal
-
lenges the world faces. This is how JPMorgan 

Chase does our part Œ person by person and 

community by community.
Periodically, all businesses need to reor
-ganize to set themselves up for continued 
success. As the global environment rapidly 

changes, we also must evolve and position 

ourselves to best serve our clients and bene˚t 

from emerging trends and opportunities for 

growth. We always want to see the world 

from the point of view of the client Œ that is 

generally the best way to look at any business.
We reorganized our global wholesale 
business around our clients to better 
 serve them
Our Investment Bank and Treasury & 
 Securities Services and Global Corporate Bank 
businesses serve many of the same corporate 

and investor clients, and we believe our 
 decision to combine these units creates 

the strongest and most complete institu-tional client franchise in the industry. The 

scope includes more than 50,000 employees 

serving approximately 7,600 clients in over 

100 markets globally. Approximately 80% of 

Fortune 500 companies are our clients.
IV.
  
WE ARE USING OUR UNIQUE CAPABILITIES TO DO 
EVEN MORE FOR OUR CLIENTS AND COMMUNITIES 
Our new global coverage teams are more 

coordinated and comprehensive in how they 

serve the client. A shared balance sheet can 

deliver credit to clients where, when and 

how they want it. The combination also 

enables our business to manage risk, capital, 

credit and liquidity on a client-by-client basis, 

which is a 
necessity in the new regulatory 
environment.The scale with which we operate Œ arranging 
$450 billion of syndicated loans for clients, 

processing up to $10 trillion a day in transac
-
tions around the world, etc. Œ cannot be met 

by most banks. Even many of our U.S.-based 

middle market companies use our services 

internationally to grow their businesses. 

In fact, 58% of our middle market clients 

are active in global markets today, and 26% 

have operations in foreign countries. These 

numbers are substantially higher than a 
decade ago. Governments and government 

entities deposit huge sums of money with 

us Œ again, this cannot be handled by small 

banks. And our size enables us to invest 

in new products and services, as well as in 

infrastructure and technology. It also gives 

us the resources to accommodate all the new 
regulatory demands, including new clearing
-
houses and new reporting requirements.
Ultimately, we expect this new organization 
to make it easier for clients to do business 

with us, to increase the revenue and cross 

selling that we do with each client while 

reducing the cost of serving each client.
J.P. Morgan brings its breadth to help major 
clients
Time and again, J.P. Morgan has shown the 
ability to deliver its scale and broad cross-

market capabilities to support clients in 

carrying out their strategic growth plans. 

In February 2013, J.P. Morgan advised 3G 

Capital and Berkshire Hathaway on their 

acquisition of the iconic H.J. Heinz Company 
2424for $28 billion. J.P. Morgan was the ˚rst call 
3G and Berkshire made to secure the neces-
sary ˚nancing, knowing we had the where
-
withal to quickly commit to a $12 billion 

debt transaction. A few months earlier, J.P. 

Morgan stepped up for Freeport-McMoRan 

Copper & Gold Inc. As the sole under
-writer of a $9.5 billion ˚nancing, Freeport-

McMoRan was able to launch its proposed 

acquisition of Plains Exploration & Produc-
tion Company and of McMoRan Exploration 

Co., two complementary transactions totaling 

$20 billion. The acquisitions add oil and gas 

businesses to Freeport-McMoRan™s global 

mining portfolio. 
We enable major companies to accomplish 
their strategic objectives. Not many banks 

can undertake these types of large and 

complex transactions.
We invest for the long run, and we manage risk 
accordingly 
JPMorgan Chase plays the long game, and 
we are not a fair weather friend. Clients, 

communities and countries want to know 

that we are going to be there 
particularly 
when times are tough. It is easy for critics to 

blame a bank for taking certain risks 
after
 the results are known. It is much harder to 

make those decisions before the outcomes 

are revealed.
In the height of the ˚nancial crisis in 2008, 
we completed several major syndicated 

leveraged ˚nance loans, and, in one critical 

instance, we bought the entire $1.4 billion 

bond issue from the state of Illinois when 
no one else would bid for it, giving Illinois 

the ˚nancing for payroll and other impor
-tant needs. We also committed $4 billion to 

California and $2 billion to New Jersey when 

others were not able to do so.
Europe is another example of where we 
apply this philosophy. When Greece, Ireland, 

Italy, Portugal and Spain got into trouble, 

we made the decision to stay the course. 

We have described to our shareholders that 

under terrible scenarios, we could lose $5 

billion or more. But we have been doing 

business with those clients and in those 
countries, in some cases, for more than a 

hundred years. We need to help them in 

their time of trouble Œ and we can. We hope 

to be doing business in those countries for 

decades to come.
JPMORGAN CHASE IS THE LARGEST BANK TO SMALL AND 

REGIONAL BANKS IN AMERICA
In the ongoing national dialogue about banks, some have tried to pit large global banks such as JPMorgan 
Chase against community and regional banks Š as if the success of one comes at the expense of the other. 

That simply is false. There is both room for and need for large global banks, as well as smaller banks. Just 
as we have some unique capabilities Š so do they. They are deeply embedded in their communities and are 
knowledgeable about their local consumers and small businesses. 
We are proud to be the largest banker in America to community and regional banks. We help them 
raise equity in the capital markets, advise on merger and acquisition deals, and provide credit and cash 
management services to more than 800 bank clients. Since the start of the ˚nancial crisis in September 2008 
through the end of 2012, we have raised $22.8 billion in equity, $43.6 billion in debt and advised on $37.2 

billion in merger and acquisition deals for community and regional banks. And when smaller banks couldn™t 

get funding during the ˚nancial crisis so they could lend to their clients, we were there for them Š perhaps 

more than any other bank. 
25We combined all our consumer businesses 
into one unit to better serve our consumers
In 2012, we continued the work of unifying 
the Chase businesses into one franchise by 

creating Consumer & Community Banking. 

We did this so we could be organized 

around the customer. Historically, much of 

our company was built around products: 

the mortgage company did mortgages, 

the credit card company did credit cards, 

and the bank branches did checking and 

savings accounts. Instead, we re-imagined 

our consumer bank from the ground up and 

reorganized it Œ not by product but around 

the customer so we could better select 

for every person the best of what Chase 

provides to meet customer needs. 
Creating the single unit ultimately will 
mean that when dealing with Chase, 

customers will get a consistent and seam-
less experience, whether they are taking 

out a credit card, applying for a mortgage 

or managing a checking account. This 

will allow us to do a better job of serving 

our customers at a lower cost. In the end, 

customers will get more for less Œ and save 

themselves some time in the process.
It also allows us to deliver industry-leading 
innovations. For example, we were among 

the ˚rst to roll out a full range of mobile 
solutions across di˛erent products. This past 

year, the number of customers using mobile 

banking jumped 51% to exceed 12 million 

users Œ and we™re growing at a rate of nearly 

350,000 new users each month. We trans
-
acted over $18 billion in mobile payments. 

Chase.com is the most visited bank portal 

in America, and more than 17 million 

customers paid their bills with us online. 
Our bank branch model is evolving beyond 
just a place where customers conduct routine 
business to a place where customers get 
advice, new products and direct service. 

Currently, about 50% of our Chase-branded 

credit cards and 50% of our retail mort-
gages are sold in Chase branches. And today, 

our consumer banking households use, on 

average, eight Chase products and services.
The results of these e˛orts have made Chase 

one of the leading consumer banks in the 
country. Our customer satisfaction scores 

never have been higher. We serve over 50 

million households, and we are there for 

them at every stage of life Œ from their ˚rst 

checking account and ˚rst credit card to their 

long-term investment and retirement needs.
We are making similar e˛orts serving our 
small business customers. Consumer & 

Community Banking is the nation™s #1 Small 

Business Administration lender (based on 

number of loans) for the third year in a row. 

And we are one of the largest banks to small 

businesses in America Œ we have 2 million 

small business customers.
One exciting new service Œ called Chase 
Merchant Services Œ will enable us, working 

with Visa, to tailor customized deals with 

merchants to help them grow their busi
-
nesses. This will allow merchants to get more 

from our products and services, including 

targeted marketing to our customers. If we 

do this type of partnership properly, we 

believe both merchants and our customers 

will be happier. 
Our economies of scale, level of 
convenience and breadth of activities 
allow us to be there for our communities in 
meaningful ways
The same attributes that drive the success 
of our business also allow our bank to help 
tackle some of the world™s toughest issues. 
During Superstorm Sandy, the spirit of our people, 
combined with the depth of our balance sheet, 
made a real di˝erence to the a˝ected communities 
Perhaps the most dramatic example of your 
bank in action is our response to disaster. 

In the face of Superstorm Sandy, our ˚rm 

responded magni˚cently. Even though our 

own employees were in the storm™s path, 

they rallied and did amazing things. We 

dispensed more than $1 billion in cash 
through branches and ATMs to the a˛ected 

areas at a time when power was down and 

many people couldn™t get access to their 

money. We even sent mobile branches to 

the Rockaways and deeply damaged parts 

of Brooklyn, Staten Island and New Jersey. 

We drove portable ATMs to storm-ravaged 
26areas, and we also recon˚gured the ATMs so 
customers could donate to relief e˛orts. We 

made $5 billion in incremental capital avail
-
able to impacted small and medium-sized 
businesses. We allowed mortgage holders 

and credit card holders to delay payments 

without penalty. 
In partnership with the 12.12.12 Concert for 
Sandy Relief, we helped raise millions, and 

we directly donated $10 million to charities 

and individuals in need. And we guaranteed 

ﬁcertainty of executionﬂ pricing on a $2.6 

billion bond issue for the state of New Jersey 

to ensure that it had access to desperately 
needed funds. 
JPMorgan Chase provides huge capital and 
knowledge to global cities
The future of humanity is a tale of cities. 
That is where the majority of the world™s 

population now lives and the source from 

which almost all economic growth will come. 
That is why JPMorgan Chase continues to 
focus on ways to help metropolitan commu
-
nities operate and grow. We o˛er cities and 

states our best advice and considerable ˚nan
-
cial support. Last year, the ˚rm provided 

more than $85 billion in capital or credit to 
nearly 1,500 government entities, including 

states, municipalities, hospitals, universities 

and nonpro˚ts. 
This past year, we also partnered with The 
Brookings Institution to launch the Global 

Cities Initiative. We made a $10 million 

˚nancial commitment and leveraged it 

by tapping our network of relationships 

around the world to convene an extraor
-dinary series of events in cities from Los 

Angeles to São Paulo. These sessions bring 
together policymakers, business leaders 
and non-governmental organizations to 
share best practices and develop strategies 

for improved competitiveness. As a result 

of these meetings, participants are devel
-
oping locally driven, actionable strategies 

to strengthen their respective region™s trade 

and investment practices. More such events 

are planned for 2013 Œ both in the U.S. and 

around the world. 
JPMorgan Chase also is using its capabilities 
 in conjunction with philanthropy to help 
 alleviate poverty 
JPMorgan Chase contributes approximately 
$200 million a year Œ much of it to help the 

poor and disadvantaged Œ and our people 

dedicated over 465,000 hours of volunteer 

service in local communities around the 

globe. In addition, we use our knowledge 

and ˚nancing capabilities to develop new 

and innovative ways to attack problems. 

For example, JPMorgan Chase continued 

to invest millions of dollars through our 

social ˚nance business to address the needs 

of vulnerable populations worldwide. As 

of the end of 2012, our impact investments 

have 
improved the livelihoods of 14 million 
people, including, for example, a˛ordable 

housing for 10,000 poor living in Mexico. In 

another example, through our investment 

in AllLife, the only dedicated insurance 

company in the world to provide coverage 

for people living with HIV, tens of thou
-
sands of lives in South Africa have been 

made more stable and ˚nancially secure. 
27To be a great company, we need to institu
-tionalize and perpetuate a great culture and 
excellent leaders. To do this, we must do 

many things well, including the training, 

the retention of talent and the creation of a 
company that is continually learning. One 

also must have a culture of character and 

integrity. This comes from fostering an open 

environment, where people speak their 

minds freely, to treating people with respect 

Œ at all levels, from the CEO to clerks in the 

mailroom Œ to setting the highest standards 
combined with recognizing and admitting 
mistakes.
We continually train our next-generation 
management
At JPMorgan Chase, we hire thousands of 
employees each year across all our global 

businesses, and we train them to under
-stand our products, services and customers 

and to know how to do their jobs well. For 

example, last year, our Corporate & Invest
-
ment Bank programs alone hired and 

trained more than 1,000 full-time analysts 

and associates and nearly 1,700 summer 

analysts and associates. This training 

program has long been considered one of 

the best in the world, and we continue to 

receive industry awards and top honors for 

formal training and as the best investment 

bank for which to work. Similar training 

programs hire and develop more than 400 

analysts, associates and summer interns in 

Asset Management and over 1,000 full-time 

analysts in our Corporate Development 

Program within Technology, Operations, 

Finance and Human Resources. We recently 

developed an enterprise-wide general 

management program with global rotations 

across our wholesale, consumer and corpo
-
rate functions. 
Most employees receive ongoing training 

and development to ensure they are fully 

prepared to manage complex jobs, systems 

and client relationships. Some others are 

prepared to take on management roles 

and leadership responsibilities. Four years 

ago, we relaunched an executive leader
-ship program, called Leaders Morgan Chase 

(which was started by my predecessor Bill 

Harrison), for our senior leaders who have 

been identi˚ed to take on even bigger 

management roles in the future. We have 

held 10 sessions to date for about 250 partic
-
ipants Œ and roughly 50% already have 

moved on to new challenging roles.
We work hard to reassign our employees 
when changes require cutbacks
Businesses must continuously adjust to changing conditions Œ sometimes volume 

related and sometimes related to technology 

and productivity enhancements. Unfortu
-
nately, that may mean job reductions. At 

JPMorgan Chase, we developed a new ˚rm
-
wide program, called Talent Reassignment, 

where we work earnestly and extensively to 

˚nd employees new job opportunities inside 

our company and minimize the number of 

employee layo˛s. In 2012, we placed more 

than 4,000 employees in new roles at the 

˚rm through this program. It has success-
fully retained strong talent and saved $80 

million in severance costs. It is the right 

thing to do, it shows a huge commitment 

to our employees, and it™s great for morale 

throughout the ˚rm because it shows we 

treat our people with respect and humanity. 
V.
  
OUR PEOPLE ARE OUR FUTURE Š HOW WE ARE 
DEVELOPING AND RETAINING OUR LEADERS 
28We love hiring veterans Š and we™ve gotten 
good at itThere is no group that we hold in higher 
regard than the service members and 

veterans in our country Œ we can™t thank 

them enough for their service. The 100,000 

Jobs Mission, which our ˚rm helped launch 

in early 2011, includes 91 companies that 

collectively hired 51,835 returning service 

members by the end of 2012. That means we 
are more than halfway to the goal in just over 
one year Œ and we have no intention of stop
-
ping even after we hit the 100,000 job target.
At JPMorgan Chase, we have hired close 
to 5,000 former members of the armed 

services in all areas of the ˚rm since 

the beginning of 2011. We work hard to 

leverage the valuable skills veterans bring 

to our company and to provide them with 

training and the unique support that might 

be required as they transition from the mili
-
tary to the corporate world.
These veterans whom we have hired are 
great employees and team members (they 

were taught by the U.S. military to be great 

team players, to stay focused on the mission 

and to win), and they have lifted up our 

entire company. Everyone at JPMorgan 

Chase is proud of our e˛orts to hire veterans 

Œ at many of our company-wide events, 

you see a lot of tears in the room when our 

employees see the e˛orts we are making to 

help those who were willing to put their lives 

on the line for our country. 
We had too much turnover in the senior 
management team this year, but today™s 
team is exceptional and highly experienced 
While it is normal to expect some turnover 
of the senior management team (as people 
age, want to change jobs or retire), this year 

we had more than our normal share. Three 

new members were added to the senior 

management team, replacing ˚ve former 

members (the Operating Committee now totals 12 members). Some turnover was due 
to the reorganization of our businesses that I 

mentioned in the previous section, some was 

due to succession planning, some was due 

to a desire to do something di˛erent and, of 

course, some was due to our CIO problem. 
However, the change was not as pronounced 
as it may have looked. All the new members 

of our Operating Committee were promoted 

from within the ˚rm and already were 

responsible for a large part of the job they 

were promoted to do. They are experienced 

and deeply respected by the people within 

the company. Their average tenure is 13 years 

at the ˚rm and approximately 25 years in the 

industry. They are mature and tested, and 

they confront tough issues with a smile. 
We could have delayed the reorganization 
within the company. Many times in my 

career, people have suggested we should 

not do something because it might add 
additional negative press coverage when 

the company really doesn™t need more. 

But companies have to change and move 

forward. Not doing the right thing for the 

wrong reasons usually is a bad idea.29We have and must continue to successfully 
attract high-quality people
Our company eventually would fail if we 
no longer were able to attract high-quality 

people at all levels. Fortunately, we continue 

to attract great people, in part because of the 

culture of our ˚rm. Our employees like the 

fact that we care about our clients, encourage 

our people to speak their minds and share 
their ideas and like the fact that we are 
successful and want to win. They also like to 
know their managers are smart, decent and 

honest and can admit their mistakes Œ both 

large and small (you can™t ˚x problems if you 

don™t admit them).We also believe that our compensation 
programs have been consistent and fair. Our 

principles of compensation are: We need 

to be competitive; we look at multi-year 

performance; we have no formulas; senior 

management receives much of its compensa
-
tion in common stock; we have no multi-year 

guarantees; and we do not have change-

of-control agreements, special retirement 

plans, golden parachutes or special severance 

packages. Performance to us has never been 

just about ˚nancial outcomes Œ it includes 
broader contributions such as developing 

leadership skills, maintaining integrity and 

a strong character, recruiting and coaching a 

diverse workforce, building quality systems, 

strengthening our controls and fostering 

innovation, to name a few key qualities.
We also work hard to both empower our 

front lines while maintaining tight controls. 

We do not unfairly scapegoat people for 

making an honest mistake. It is hard to build 

strong morale or continuity when people 
feel they may be the next casualty if senior 

management is looking for someone unfairly 

to blame.
Finally, we try to make sure work is ful˚lling. 
While we always try to focus on what we 

could do better, we do take time to celebrate 

our successes and do fun things, like take bus 

trips around the country where we can both 

learn from our employees and clients and 

show our deep appreciation to them. One of my favorite things to do each year is 
travel to our annual event where we recog
-
nize and thank our top branch tellers and 

personal bankers for the great job they are 

doing of serving our customers. We give out 

awards on stage for hours to the winners Œ 

and we all ˚nd it inspiring. It always moti
-
vates me to do a better job for all of them. 
30I want to say again how proud I am of this company and its 
people. These past ˚ve years have been a period of turmoil, crisis 

and stress. What your company accomplished during these di˜
-
cult circumstances has been extraordinary. 
We™ve created a video titled ﬁWe Are JPMorgan Chase.ﬂ It is 11 
minutes long, and it is worthwhile to watch (you can view it on 

jpmorganchase.com/we-are-jpmorganchase
). This video is not the 

typical thing a bank would do, but it explains on a human level 

what we do as a bank and what we are all about. It re˝ects the 

diversity of our people, the common bond they share, and the 

many wonderful ways Œ large and small Œ in which they make life 

better for each other, our clients and our communities. It will show 

you why I am so proud to work at JPMorgan Chase. 
CLOSING
Jamie Dimon
 Chairman and Chief Executive O˜cer
April 10, 2013
