ANNUAL REPORT 2015
˚
˚
ˇ


“˚˚









‘•˚˚˚
˚




††

˝˝š

−




˛

š†

“˚™ﬁ

Œš
Š˚ŸŒ
Š
‚†

š“
˜
˜˚˛˝˙˛˝ˆ˛˙

˛˛˜˚˛˝˛˛
˛


˛˛˛
†˛

˛˛˛
˛
€ˆ˝˝•ˇ˛˛
˛˛˛
˛
€ˆ˝
˛˛˛
˛


˛˛
†˛


˛

˛˛
†˛
˛
˛˛˛
˛
⁄
˛˛˛
˛

˛˛˛
˛‘’ƒ“‡

˛˛˛˛˛
˛


−
˛˛˛†˛˛−
˛˛˛˛˛˛˛
⁄
˛˛˛˛˛˛
˛

˛˛˛˛
˛

˛˛˛˛˛
˛


ﬁ

˛˛†˛


˛˛˛˛
˛

˛˛
˛
˚
˛˛˛
˛
˛˛

˝ˆˇ˚ƒ˛ı˙

ƒ
˛˛−˝ˆƒ˛ž˜˛


˛˛ƒ˛ıﬂ˜€˛
ı¢‡
ƒ˛˛

˜



……
ˇ…ˇ

–…

…ˇ


⁄˛‘˝˛−

ˇ˝˛˙
80633jp_cover.indd   24/6/16   1:46 PMcommunities
clients
 customers
employees
veterans
nonpro˜ts 
business owners
 schools hospitals local governments
22Dear Fellow Shareholders,
Last year Š in fact, the last decade Š was an extraordinary time for our company. We 
managed through the ˜nancial crisis and its turbulent aftermath while never losing 

sight of the reason we are here: to serve our clients, our communities and countries 

across the globe and, of course, to earn a fair pro˜t for our shareholders. All the 

while, we have been successfully executing our control and regulatory agenda and 

continuing to invest in technology, infrastructure and talent Š critical to the future of 

the company. And each year, our company has been getting safer and stronger. We 

continue to see exciting opportunities to invest for the future and to do more for our 

clients and our communities Š as well as continue to support the growth of economies 

around the world. 
I feel enormously blessed to work for this great company and with such talented 
employees. Our management team and employees have built an exceptional 

organization that is one of the most trusted and respected ˜nancial institutions in the 

world. It has been their dedication, fortitude and perseverance that made this possible. 

And it ˜lls me with tremendous pride.
Jamie Dimon,  Chairman and 
 
Chief Executive O˚cer
33Our company earned a record $24.4 billion in net income on revenue of $96.6 billion 
in 2015. In fact, we have delivered record results in the last ˜ve out of six years, and 

we hope to continue to deliver in the future. Our ˜nancial results re˚ected strong 

underlying performance across our businesses, and, importantly, we exceeded all our 

major ˜nancial commitments Š balance sheet optimization, capital deployment, global 

systemically important bank (GSIB) surcharge reduction and expense cuts. 
Earnings, Diluted Earnings per Share and Return on Tangible Common Equity
 2004Š2015
 ($ in billions, except per share and ratio data)
 While we did produce record pro˜ts last year, our returns on tangible common equity 
 have been coming down, mostly due to higher capital requirements, higher control 
 
costs and low interest rates. Our return on tangible common equity was 13% last 

year, though we still believe that we will be able to achieve, over time, returns of 

approximately 15%. We still don™t know the ˜nal capital rules, which could have 

additional negative e˛ects, but we do believe that the capital requirements eventually 

will be o˛set by optimizing our use of capital and other precious resources, by realizing 

market share gains due to some competitors leaving certain businesses, and by 

implementing extensive cost e˝ciencies created by streamlining and digitizing our 

processes. I will discuss some of these e˛orts later on in this letter.
˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛ˆ˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚ˇ˜˚˚˘˜˚˚˙˜˚˚˝˜˚˛˝˜˙˛˝ˆ˜ˇ˛˝˜ˆ˛˘˝˜˙˚˛˚˜˚˛˜˙˝˛˚˜˚˛˘˘˜˝˛˜˙˛˘˝˜˙˙˛˜ˆ˛ˆ˜˙˛˚˜˘˛˜˙˛˜˚˛˚ˇ˜ˆ˙˛˘˜˝˛˙˜˙˛˜˚˛˘˜ˆ˙˛˜˝˜ˆ˚˛˚˜˛˜˚˛˝˙˝ˆ˝ˆ˛˚˝˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˝˚˛˝˜˙ˆˇ˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝˝ˆˇ˝˙
ˆ
ˆˆ
˙˝˙˝˙˝˙˙44We continued to deliver for our shareholders in 2015. The table above shows the 
growth in tangible book value per share, which we believe is a conservative measure 

of value. You can see that our tangible book value per share has grown far more than 

that of the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500) in both time periods. For Bank 

One shareholders since March 27, 2000, the stock has performed far better than most 

˜nancial companies and the S&P 500. We are not proud of the fact that our stock 

performance has only equaled the S&P 500 since the JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger 

with Bank One on July 1, 2004 and essentially over the last ˜ve to 10 years. On a 

relative basis, though, JPMorgan Chase stock has far outperformed the S&P Financials 

Index and, in fact, has been one of the best performers of all banks during this di˝cult 

period. The details are shown on the table on the following page.
˜˚˛˝˜˚˛˙˜˚˛ˆ˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˚˜˚˚ˇ˜˚˚˘˜˚˚˝˜˚˚˙˜˚˛˝˙˛
˜˚ˆ˝ˇ˛
˜˚˘˝˘˘
˝ˆ

˝
˝
˜˙˙˝
˜˙˘˝ˆ˘
˝
˜ˇˇ˝
˜ˇ˘˝˚˙
˜˚˛˘
Tangible Book Value per Share
 2004Š2015
 Bank One/JPMorgan Chase & Co. tangible book value per share performance vs. S&P 500
Bank One(A)S&P 500 (B)Relative Results
(A) Š (B)Performance since becoming CEO of Bank One 
(3/27/2000Š12/31/2015)1Compounded annual gain
12.5% 5.0% 7.5%Overall gain
481.4%107.9%373.5%JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(A)S&P 500(B)Relative Results
(A) Š (B)Performance since the Bank One 

and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger

(7/1/2004Š12/31/2015)Compounded annual gain
13.7%7.4%6.3%Overall gain
336.9%127.6%209.3%Tangible book value over time captures the company™s use of capital, balance sheet and profitability. In this chart, we are looking at 
heritage Bank One shareholders and JPMorgan Chase & Co. shareholders. The chart shows the increase in tangible book value per share; 
it is an aftertax number assuming all dividends were retained vs. the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500), which is a pre-tax number 
with dividends reinvested.
1 On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One.
55Many of the legal and regulatory issues that our company and the industry have faced 
since the Great Recession have been resolved or are receding, which will allow the 

strength and quality of our underlying business to more fully shine through.
In this letter, I will discuss the issues highlighted below Š which describe many of 
our successes and opportunities, as well as our challenges and responses. The main 

sections are listed below, and, unlike prior years, we have organized much of this 

letter around some of the key questions we have received from shareholders and other 

interested parties.
Stock total return analysis
Bank OneS&P 500S&P Financials Index
Performance since becoming CEO of Bank One 
(3/27/2000Š12/31/2015)1Compounded annual gain
10.2%3.8% 1.9%Overall gain
364.1%81.3%35.3%JPMorgan Chase & Co.
S&P 500S&P Financials Index
Performance since the Bank One 

and JPMorgan Chase & Co. merger
(7/1/2004Š12/31/2015)Compounded annual gain
7.6%7.4%0.7%Overall gain
131.1%127.6%7.8%Performance for the period ended 
 December 31, 2015:
 Compounded annual gain/(loss)
 One year
8.4% 1.4%(1.6)% Five years
12.1%12.6%10.4% Ten years
7.9%7.3%(0.7)%These charts show actual returns of the stock, with dividends included, for heritage shareholders of Bank One and JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
vs. the Standard & Poor™s 500 Index (S&P 500) and the Standard & Poor™s Financials Index (S&P Financials Index).
1 On March 27, 2000, Jamie Dimon was hired as CEO of Bank One.
66I. Our franchises are strong 
Š and getting stronger 
Ł How do you compare your franchises with your peers? What makes you believe your 
businesses are strong?
  II. We must and will protect our company and those we serve
Ł You say you have a ﬁfortress balance sheet.ﬂ What does that mean? Can you handle 
the extreme stress that seems to happen around the world from time to time? 
Ł Have you completed your major de-risking initiatives? 
Ł Do you think you now have ﬁfortress controlsﬂ in place?
Ł To protect the company and to meet standards of safety and soundness, don™t you 

have to earn a fair pro˜t? Many banks say that the cost of all the new rules makes 

this hard to do. 
Ł What is all this talk of regulatory optimization, and don™t some of these things 
 hurt clients? When will you know the ˜nal rules?
Ł How do you manage geopolitical and country risks?
Ł How do you manage your interest rate exposure? Are you worried about negative 

interest rates and the growing di˛erences across countries?
Ł Are you worried about liquidity in the marketplace? What does it mean for 
 
JPMorgan Chase, its clients and the broader economy?
Ł Why are you making such a big deal about protecting customers™ data in your bank?
 
 III. We actively develop and support our employees
Ł How are you ensuring you have the right conduct and culture?
Ł How are you doing in your diversity e˛orts?
Ł With all the new rules, committees and centralization, how can you ˜ght bureaucracy 
and complacency and keep morale high?
Ł How are you doing retaining key people?
  Page 9
 Page 11
Page 14

Page 14

  Page 16
 Page 16
Page 17

 Page 18 
 Page 19
Page 21
Page 22
Page 24
 Page 26
Page 27
 77 Page 9
 Page 11
Page 14

Page 14

  Page 16
 Page 16
Page 17

 Page 18 
 Page 19
Page 21
Page 22
Page 24

 Page 26
Page 27
 IV.
 We are here to serve our clients
Ł How do you view innovation, technology and FinTech? And have 
banks been good innovators? Do you have economies of scale, and 

how are they bene˜ting your clients?
Ł How do you intend to win in payments, particularly with so many 

strong competitors Š many from Silicon Valley? 
Ł You always seem to be segmenting your businesses Š how and why 

are you doing this?
Ł How and why do you use big data?
Ł Why are you investing in sales and trading, as well as in your 

Investment Bank, when others seem to be cutting back?
Ł Why are you still in the mortgage business?
 
 V.
 We have always supported our communities
Ł You seem to be doing more and more to support your communities 
Š how and why?
 
 VI. A safe, strong banking industry is absolutely critical to a country™s 

success Š banks™ roles have changed, but they will never be a utility
Ł Does the United States really need large banks?
Ł Why do you say that banks need to be steadfast and always there for 
their clients Š doesn™t that always put you in the middle of the storm?
Ł Will banks ever regain a position of trust? How will this be done?
Ł Are you and your regulators thinking more comprehensively and 

in a forward-looking way to play a role in helping to accelerate 

global growth?
  VII. Good public policy is critically important
Ł Are you worr
ied about bad public policy?
Page 28
 Page 31
 Page 32
Page 33
 Page 34
 Page 35
  
  Page 37
 Page 40
 Page 43
Page 46
Page 46
 Page 48
 88When I travel around the world, and we do 
business in over 100 countries, our clients Œ 

who are big companies to small businesses, 

investors and individuals, as well as coun
-
tries and their sovereign institutions Œ are 

almost uniformly pleased with us. In fact, 

most cities, states and countries want more 

of JPMorgan Chase. They want us to bring 

more of our resources Œ our ˜nancial capa-
bilities and technology, as well as our human 

capital and expertise Œ to their communities. 

While we do not know what the next few 

years may bring, we are con˜dent that the 

needs of our clients around the world will 
continue to grow and that our consistent 
strategy of building for the future and being 

there for our clients in good times and bad 

has put us in very good stead. Whatever the 

future brings, we will face it from a position 

of strength and stability.
Because our business leaders do such a 
good job describing their businesses (and 
I strongly urge you to read their letters on 

pages 52Œ72 in this Annual Report), it is 

unnecessary for me to cover each in detail 

here, other than to answer the following 

critical questions.
I.OUR FRANCHISES ARE STRONG Š AND GETTING 
STRONGER
E˜ciency
Returns
JPM 2015 overhead
ratios
Best-in-class 
peer overhead 
ratios
2JPM target
 
overhead 
ratios
JPM 2015
ROEBest-in-class 

peer ROTCE
5JPM target 
ROEConsumer & 
Community 

Banking
57%54%WFC
~50%18%15%WFC
20%Corporate & 

Investment 
 
Bank59%157%Citi 55%-60%12%312%Citi13%Commercial 

Banking
42%40%PNC35%15%14%FITB16%Asset 
Management
73%68%UBS WM & BLK70%21%24%BAC & TROW
25%+JPMorgan Chase
58%156%155%+/-13%412% ~15%41  
Excludes legal expense.
2  
Best-in-class overhead ratio represents implied expenses of comparable peer segments weighted by JPMorgan Chase (JPM) revenue: Wells Fargo 
Community Banking (WFC), Citi Institutional Clients Group (Citi), PNC Corporate and Institutional Banking (PNC), UBS Wealth Management and 
 
Wealth Management Americas (UBS WM) and BlackRock (BLK). JPM overhead ratio represents the sum of the implied expenses of all peers and 
 
JPM Corporate segment divided by JPM revenue.
3  
CIB ROE excluding legal expense was 14%.
4  
Represents ˜rmwide ROTCE for JPM. Goodwill is primarily related to the Bank One merger and prior acquisitions and is predominantly retained 
 
by Corporate. 
5  
Best-in-class ROTCE represents implied net income minus preferred stock dividends (NIAC) for each comparable LOB peer weighted by JPM average 

tangible common equity: WFC, Citi Institutional Clients Group (Citi), Fifth Third Bank (FITB), Bank of America Global Wealth and Investment Manage
-
ment (BAC), T. Rowe Price (TROW). JPM ROTCE represents the sum of the implied combined NIAC of all peers and JPM Corporate segment divided by 

JPM average tangible equity. 
JPMorgan Chase is in Line with Best-in-Class Peers in Both E˜ciency and Returns
99Virtually all of our businesses are close to 
best in class, in overhead ratios and, more 

important, in return on equity (ROE), as 

shown on the chart on page 8. Of even more 

relevance, we have these strong ratios while 

making sizable investments for the future 

(which we have reported on extensively in 

the past and you can read more about in the 

CEO letters). It is easy to meet short-term 

targets by skimping on investments for 

the future, but that is not our approach for 

building the business for the long term. 
How do you compare your franchises with your peers? What makes you believe your businesses 
are strong?
We are deeply aware that our clients 

choose who they want to do business with 

each and every day, and we are grati˜ed 

that we continue to earn our clients™ busi
-
ness and their trust. If you are gaining 

customers and market share, you have to 

be doing something right. The chart below 

shows that we have been meeting this goal 

fairly consistently for 10 years.
Irreplicable Client Franchises Built Over the Long Term
200620142015Consumer &
Community

Banking
Deposits market share
1 # of top 50 Chase markets 
   
where we are #1 (top 3) deposits
Average deposits growth rate
Active mobile customers growth rate
Card sales market share
2Merchant processing volume
3,43.6% 11 (25)7.7% NM16% #37.6% 
 13 (40)7.4%22.1%21% #17.9% 12 (40)9.0%19.5%21% #1 Relationships with ~50% of U.S. households
 #1 primary banking relationship share in Chase footprint
11 #1 retail bank in the U.S. for acquiring, developing and 

retaining customers
12 #1 U.S. credit card issuer based on loans outstanding
13 #1 U.S. co-brand credit card issuer
14  #1 wholly-owned merchant acquirer
15Corporate &
 Investment

BankGlobal Investment Banking fees
5  Market share
5Total Markets revenue
6 Market share
6 FICC
6  Market share
6 Equities
6  Market share
6 #28.6% #87.9% #79.1% #86.0% #18.0% #115.5% #117.5% #311.6% #17.9% #115.9% #118.3% #312.0% >80% of Fortune 500 companies do business with us
 Top 3 in 16 product areas out of 17
16 #1 in both N.A. and EMEA Investment Banking fees
17 #1 in Global Debt, Equity and Equity-related
17 #1 in Global Long-Term Debt and Loan Syndications
17 #1 in FICC productivity
18 Top 3 Custodian globally with AUC of $19.9 trillion
 #1 USD clearing house with 18.9% share in 2015
19Commercial 

Banking
# of states with Middle Market 
  banking presence
Multifamily lending
7 Gross Investment Banking 
 
 revenue ($ in billions)
 % of North America 
   
Investment Banking fees
 
 22 #28 
 $0.7 16%  30 #1 
 $2.0 35%  32 #1 
 $2.2 36% #1 in customer satisfaction
20 Leveraging the ˜rm™s platform Š average ~9 products/client
21 Top 3 in overall Middle Market, large Middle Market 
 and ABL bookrunner  Industry-leading credit performance Š 4th straight year of net 

recoveries or single digit NCO rate
AssetManagement
Mutual funds with a 4/5 star rating
8Global active long-term open-end 
  mutual fund AUM ˚ows
9  
AUM market share
9North America Private Bank 
(Euromoney)

 Client assets market share
10 119
  #21.8% #1 ~3% 226
  #12.5% #1~4% 231  #22.6% #1~4% 84% of 10-year long-term mutual fund AUM in top 2 quartiles
22 Positive client asset ˚ows every year since 2004
 #3 Global Private Bank and #1 LatAm Private Bank
23 Revenue and long-term AUM growth ~80% since 2006
 Doubled GWM client assets (2x industry rate) since 2006
10For footnoted information, refer to slide 42 in the 2016 Firm Overview Investor Day presentation, which is available on JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s website at 
 (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/presentations.cfm), under the heading Investor Relations, Investor Presentations, JPMorgan Chase 2016 Investor Day, 
 
Firm Overview, and on Form 8-K as furnished to the SEC on February 24, 2016, which is available on the SEC™s website (www.sec.gov).
NM = Not meaningful 
1010Improved Consumer Satisfaction: 2010Š2015 
Good businesses also deeply care about 
improving customer satisfaction. As shown 

above, you can see that our Chase customer 

satisfaction score continues to rise. In 

addition, our Commercial Banking satis
-
faction score is among the highest in the 

industry in terms of customer loyalty. In 

Asset Management, where customers vote 

with their wallet, JPMorgan Funds ˜nished 

second in long-term net ˚ows among all 

fund complexes. 
Later on in this letter, I will describe our 

fortress balance sheet and controls, as 

well as the discipline we have around risk 

management. I will also talk more about 

our employees, some exciting new oppor
-tunities Œ mostly driven by innovative 

technologies Œ and our ongoing support 

for our communities and our country. It is 

critical that we do 
all of these things right 
to maintain the strength of our company.
1 Source: J.D. Power U.S. Retail Banking Satisfaction Study.
2 Big banks defined as top six U.S. banks.
3 Net promoter score = % promoters minus % detractors.
4 Source: J.D. Power U.S. Credit Card Satisfaction Study (8/19/2010 and 8/20/2015).
201520142013201220112010˜˚Chase ˜˚Industry average    ˜˚Big banks ˜˚Regional banks      ˜˚Midsized banksU.S. retail banking satisfaction
1,2
Mortgage originations net promoter score
320152010+38U.S. credit card satisfaction
4Rank  5   3 20152010+811111In support of our main mission Œ to serve 
our clients and our communities Œ there 
is nothing more important than to protect 
our company so that we are strong and can 

continue to be here for all of those who 

count on us. We have taken many actions 

that should give our shareholders, clients and 

regulators comfort and demonstrate that our 

company is rock solid.
The actions we have taken to strengthen 
 our company.
In this section, we describe the many 
actions that we have taken to make our 
company stronger and safer: our fortress 

balance sheet with enhanced capital and 

liquidity, our ability to survive extreme 

stress of multiple types, our extensive 

de-risking and simpli˜cation of the busi-
ness, and the building of fortress controls in 

meeting far more stringent regulatory stan-
dards. Taken together, these actions have 

enabled us to make extraordinary progress 

toward reducing and ultimately eliminating 

the risk of JPMorgan Chase failing and 
 the cost of any failure being borne by the 
 American taxpayer or the U.S. economy. 
II.WE MUST AND WILL PROTECT OUR COMPANY AND 
THOSE WE SERVE
You say you have a ﬁfortress balance sheet.ﬂ What does that mean? Can you handle the 
extreme stress that seems to happen around the world from time to time?
Nearly every year since the Great Recession, 

we have improved virtually every measure of 

˜nancial strength, including many new ones. 

It™s important to note as a starting point that 

in the worst years of 2008 and 2009, JPMorgan 

Chase did absolutely ˜ne Œ we never lost 

money, we continued to serve our clients, 

and we had the wherewithal and capability 

to buy and integrate Bear Stearns and 
Washington Mutual. That said, we none-

theless recognize that many Americans did 

not do ˜ne, and the ˜nancial crisis exposed 

weaknesses in the mortgage market and 

other areas. Later in this letter, I will also 

describe what we are doing to strengthen 

JPMorgan Chase and to help support the 

entire economy. 
The chart on page 12 shows many of the 
measures of our ˜nancial strength Œ both 
from the year preceding the crisis and our 

improvement in the last year alone. 
In addition, every year, the Federal Reserve puts 
all large banks through a very severe and very 
detailed stress test.
Among other things, last year™s stress test 
assumed that unemployment would go to 

10.1%, housing prices would fall 25%, equity 

markets would decline by nearly 60%, real 

gross domestic product (GDP) would decline 

4.6%, credit spreads would widen dramati
-
cally and oil prices would rise to $110 per 

barrel. The stress test also assumed an instan
-
taneous global market shock, e˛ectively far 

worse than the one that happened in 2009, 

causing large trading losses. It also assumed 

the failure of the largest counterparty (this 

is meant to capture the failure of the global 

bank that you have the most extensive deriva
-
tive relationship with; e.g., a Lehman-type 

event), which would cause additional losses. 

The stress test assumed that banks would not 

stop buying back stock Œ therefore depleting 

their capital Œ and would continue to grow 

dramatically. (Of course, growing dramati
-
cally and buying back stock if your bank were 

under stress would be irresponsible Œ and is 

something we would never do.) Under this 

assumed stress, the Federal Reserve esti
-
mates that JPMorgan Chase would lose 
 * Footnote: Our Chief Operating 
O˚cer Matt Zames talks in his 

letter on pages 52Œ55 about 

many important initiatives to 

protect our company, including 

our physical security and 

cybersecurity, so I will not 

duplicate any of that information.
1212$55 billion pre-tax over a nine-quarter 
period, an amount that we would easily 

manage because of the strength of our 
capital base. Remember, the Federal Reserve 

stress test is not a forecast Œ it appropriately 

assumes multiple levels of conservatism 

and that very little mitigating action can be 

taken. However, we believe that if the stress 

scenario actually happened, we would incur 

minimal losses over a cumulative nine-

quarter period because of the extensive miti
-
gating actions that we would take. It bears 
repeating that in the actual Great Recession, 

which was not unlike last year™s stress test, 

JPMorgan Chase never lost money in any 

quarter and was quite pro˜table over the 

nine-quarter period.The stress test is extremely severe on credit.
The 2015 Comprehensive Capital Analysis 

and Review (CCAR), or stress test, projected 

credit losses over a nine-quarter period 

that totaled approximately $50 billion for 

JPMorgan Chase, or 6.4% of all our loans. 

This is higher than what the actual cumula-Our Fortress Balance Sheet
at December 31
,200720142015CET17.0%
210.2%
311.6%
3TCE/
Total assets
14.9%
6.6%
7.7%
Tangible
common equity 
$74B
$166B$176B
Total assets
                                             
$1.6T
$2.6T
$2.4T
RWA
                                             
$1.1T
2$1.6T
3$1.5T
3Level 3
assets$83B
$54B
$32BLiquidity
(HQLA)
N/A
$600B$496B
LCR and NSFR
                                                 N/A
>100%
>100%
GSIBN/A
4.5%
3.5%
41 Excludes goodwill and intangible assets.
 B = billions2 Reflects Basel I measure; CET1 reflects Tier 1 common. 
 T = trillions3 Reflects Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In measure.
 bps = basis points
4 EstimatedCET1 = Common equity Tier 1 ratio. CET1 ratios re˚ect the capital rule the ˜rm was subject to at each reporting period
TCE
 = Tangible common equity
RWA
 = Risk-weighted assets
 Level 3 assets
 = Assets whose value is estimated using model inputs that are unobservable and signi˜cant to the fair value
HQLA
 = High quality liquid assets predominantly include cash on deposit at central banks, and unencumbered U.S. agency
 mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Treasuries and sovereign bonds 
LCR
 and NSFR = Liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio
GSIB = Global systemically important bank. The GSIB surcharge increases the regulatory minimum capital of large banks based 
 
 on their size, cross-jurisdiction activity, interconnectedness, complexity and short-term wholesale funding 
N/A
 = Not applicable+110 bps
+$10B$(200)B$(100)B$(22)B
Compliant
(100) bps$(104)B+140 bps
1313tive credit losses were for all banks during 
the Great Recession (they were 5.6%), and 

our credit book today is materially better 

than what we had at that time. The 2015 

CCAR losses were even with the actual losses 

for banks during the worst two years of the 

Great Depression in the 1930s (6.4%). The stress test is extremely severe on trading and 
counterparty risk.
Our 2015 CCAR trading and counterparty losses were $24 billion. We have two compar
-isons that should give comfort that our losses 

would never be this large.
First, recall what actually happened to us in 
2008. In the worst quarter of 2008, we lost 

$1.7 billion; for the entire year, we made $6.3 

billion in trading revenue in the Investment 

Bank, which included some modest losses 

on the Lehman default (one of our largest 
counterparties). The trading books are much 

more conservative today than they were in 

2008, and at that time, we were still paying 

a considerable cost for assimilating and 

de-risking Bear Stearns.
Second, we run hundreds of stress tests 
of our own each week, across our global 

trading operations, to ensure our ability 

to withstand and survive many bad and 

extreme scenarios. These scenarios include 

events such as what happened in 2008, other 

historically damaging events and also new 

situations that might occur. We manage 

our company so that even under the worst 

market stress test conditions, we would 
almost never bear a loss of more than $5 

billion (remember, we earn approximately 

$10 billion pre-tax, pre-provision each 

quarter). We recognize that on rare occa
-
sions, we could experience a negative signi˜
-
cant event that could lead to our having a 

poor quarter. But we will be vigilant and will 

never take such a high degree of risk that it 

jeopardizes the health of our company and 

our ability to continue to serve our clients. 

This is a bedrock principle. Later in this 

letter, I will also describe how we think about 

idiosyncratic geopolitical risk. And the capital we have to bear losses is 
enormous.We have an extraordinary amount of capital 
to sustain us in the event of losses. It is 

instructive to compare assumed extreme 

losses against how much capital we have for 

this purpose.
You can see in the table below that JPMorgan 
Chase alone has enough loss absorbing 
resources to bear all the losses, assumed by 

CCAR, of the 31 largest banks in the United 

States.
 Because of regulations and higher 
capital, large banks in the United States are 

far stronger. And even if any one bank might 

fail, in my opinion, there is virtually no 

chance of a domino e˛ect. Our shareholders 

should understand that while large banks do 
signi˜cant business with each other, they do 

not directly extend much credit to one other. 

And when they trade derivatives, they mark-

to-market and post collateral to each other 

every day. 
Resilience of JPMorgan Chase through multiple layers of protection
($ in billions)Total loss absorbing resources
December 31, 2015:
JPMorgan Chase quarterly estimated 
  pre-tax, pre-provision earnings
 ~$ 10 Eligible long-term debt
 $ 125 Preferred equity
  
26CCAR industry losses
2 CET1  
173 JPMorgan Chase losses
 $ 55 Total reserves
1  
25 Losses of 30 other participating banks
  
167Total resources
 Ÿ$ 350Total CCAR losses
 $ 2221 Includes credit, legal, tax and valuation reserves.
2 As estimated for the nine quarters ending December 31, 2016, by the Federal Reserve in the 2015 CCAR severely adverse scenario.
Note: Numbers may not sum due to rounding.
1414Do you think you now have ﬁfortress controlsﬂ in place? 
We are good and are getting better. The 
intense e˛orts over the last few years across 

our operating businesses Œ Risk, Finance, 

Compliance, Legal and Audit Œ are now 

yielding real results that will protect the 

company in the future. We have reinforced 

a culture of accountability for assuming risk 

and have come a long way in self-identifying 

and ˜xing shortcomings. Many new perma
-
nent organizational structures have been 
put in place to ensure constant review and 

continuous improvement. For example, 

we now have a permanent Oversight & 

Control Group. The group is charged with 

enhancing the ˜rm™s control environment 

by looking within and across the lines of 

business and corporate functions to identify 

and remediate control issues. This func
-
tion enables us to detect control problems 

more quickly, escalate issues promptly and 

engage other stakeholders to understand 
However, we are going to be extremely vigi
-
lant to do more de-risking if we believe that 

something creates additional legal, regulatory 

or political risks. We regularly review all our 

business activities and try to exceed Œ not 

just meet Œ regulatory demands. We also now 

ask our Legal Department to be on the search 

for ﬁemerging legal risks.ﬂ We try to think 

di˛erently; for example, we try to look at 

legal risks not based on how the law is today 

but based on how the law might be inter-preted di˛erently 10 years from now. It is 

perfectly reasonable for the legal and regula
-Have you completed your major de-risking initiatives? 
Yes, we have completed our major de-risking 
initiatives, and some were pretty draconian. 

In the chart below, I show just a few of the 
actions that we were willing to take to reduce 

various forms of risk:
tory agencies to want to improve the quality 
of the businesses they oversee, particularly 

around important issues such as customer 

protection. We also expect this re˜nement 

frequently will be achieved through enforce
-
ment actions as opposed to the adoption of 
new rules that raise standards. For many 

years, regulations generally were viewed as 

being static. As we do everywhere else, we 

should be striving for constant improvement 

to stay ahead of the curve.
Executed Signi˚cant Business Simpli˚cation Agenda
Business simpli˜cation initiatives
Other meaningful business actions
Exited Private Equity business
Exited Physical Commodities business
Exited Special Mezzanine Financing business 
Exited majority of Broker-Dealer Services business

Exited International Commercial Card

Sold Retirement Plan Services unit
1
Exited government prepaid card
 Simpli˜ed Mortgage Banking products from 37 
 to 15 products
Ceased originating student loans
De-risking by discontinuing certain businesses 
 with high-risk clients in high-risk geographies:
 ŠBusiness Banking closed ~9,000 clients
ŠCommercial Banking closed ~4,600 clients
ŠPrivate Banking closed ~1,700 clients
ŠConsumer Banking closed ~140,000 clients
ŠCIB closed ~2,900 clients
 (Includes restricted/exited transaction services 
 for ~500 Foreign Correspondent Banking clients)
1 401(k) administration business
1515common themes across the ˜rm. We have 
strengthened the Audit Department and risk 

assessment throughout the ˜rm, enhanced 

data quality and controls, and also strength
-
ened permanent standing committees that 

review new clients, new products and all 

reputational issues. 
The e˛ort is enormous.
Since 2011, our total headcount directly asso
-
ciated with Controls has gone from 24,000 
people to 43,000 people, and our total annual 

Controls spend has gone from $6 billion to 
approximately $9 billion annually over that 

same time period. We have more work to 

do, but a strong and permanent foundation 

is in place. Far more is spent on Controls if 

you include the time and e˛ort expended 

by front-o˝ce personnel, committees and 

reviews, as well as certain technology and 

operations functions.
We have also made a very substantial amount 
of progress in Anti-Money Laundering/Bank 
Secrecy Act. 
We deployed a new anti-money laundering 
(AML) system, Mantas, which is a moni
-
toring platform for all global payment 

transactions. It now is functioning across our 

company and utilizes sophisticated algo
-rithms that are regularly enhanced based on 

transactional experience. We review elec
-
tronically $105 trillion of gross payments 

each month, and then, on average, 55,000 

transactions are reviewed by humans after 

algorithms identify any single transaction 

as a potential issue. Following this e˛ort, 

we stopped doing business with 18,000 

customers in 2015. We also are required to 

˜le suspicious activity reports (SAR) with the 

government on any suspicious activity. Last 

year, we ˜led 180,000 SARs, and we estimate 

that the industry as a whole ˜les millions 

each year. We understand how important 
 this activity is, not just to protect our 

company but to help protect our country 

from criminals and terrorists. 
We exited or restricted approximately 500 

foreign correspondent banking relationships 

and tens of thousands of client relationships 

to simplify our business and to reduce our 

AML risk. The cost of doing proper AML/

KYC (Know Your Customer) diligence on a 

client increased dramatically, making many 

of these relationships immediately unpro˜t-
able. But we did not exit simply due to pro˜t
-
ability Œ we could have maintained unpro˜t
-
able client relationships to be supportive of 

countries around the world that are allies to 

the United States. The real reason we exited 

was often because of the extraordinary legal 

risk if we were to make a mistake. In many of 

these places, it simply is impossible to meet 

the new requirements, and if you make just 

one mistake, the regulatory and legal conse
-
quences can be severe and disproportionate.
We also remediated 130,000 accounts for 
KYC Œ across the Private Bank, Commercial 

Bank and the Corporate & Investment Bank. 

This exercise vastly improved our data, gave 

us far more information on our clients and 

also led to our exiting a small number of 

client relationships. We will be vigilant on 

onboarding and maintaining ˜les on all new 
clients in order to stay as far away as we can 

from any client with unreasonable risk. 
In all cases, we carefully tried to get the balance 
right while treating customers fairly. 
You can see that we are doing everything in 
our power to meet and even exceed the spirit 

and the letter of the law to avoid making 

mistakes and the high cost Œ both monetarily 

and to our reputation Œ that comes with 
that. But we also tried to make sure that in 

our quest to eliminate risk, we did not ask 

a lot of good clients to exit. We hope that in 

the future, the regulatory response to any 

mistakes Œ if and when they happen, and 

they will happen Œ will take into account the 

extraordinary e˛ort to get it right.
1616many of the processes we implemented for 
CCAR and AML/KYC had to be done quickly, 

and many were e˛ectively handled outside 

our normal processes. Eventually, CCAR will 

be embedded into our normal forecasting 

and budgeting systems. And we are trying to 

build the data collection part of KYC into a 
utility that the entire industry can use Œ not 
just for us and our peer group but, equally 

important, for the client™s bene˜t (the client 

would essentially only have to ˜ll out one 

form, which then could be used by all banks). 

In addition, throughout the company, contin
-
ually creating straight-through processing, 

online client service and other initiatives 

will both improve the client experience and 

decrease our costs.
What is all this talk of regulatory optimization, and don™t some of these things hurt clients? 
 When will you know the ˜nal rules?
In the last year, we took some dramatic 

actions to reduce our GSIB capital surcharge, 

which we now have successfully reduced 

from 4.5% to an estimate of 3.5%. These 

steps included reducing non-operating 
deposits by approximately $200 billion, level 

3 assets by $22 billion and notional deriva
-
tives amounts by $15 trillion. We did this 

faster than we, or anyone, thought we could. 

We still will be working to further reduce the 

GSIB surcharge, but any reduction from this 

point will take a few years. 
Like us, most banks are modifying their 
business models and client relationships to 

accomplish their regulatory objectives. We 

are doing this by managing our constraints 

at the most granular level possible Œ by 

product, client or business. Clearly, some 

of these constraints, including GSIB and 

CCAR, cannot be fully pushed down to 

the client. Importantly, we are focused on 

client-friendly execution Œ and we recog
-
nize that these constraints are of no direct 

concern to clients. 
To protect the company and to meet standards of safety and soundness, don™t you have to earn a 

fair pro˜t? Many banks say that the cost of all the new rules makes this hard to do. 
Having enough capital and liquidity, and 
even the most solid fortress controls, doesn™t 

make you completely safe and sound. Deliv
-
ering proper pro˜t margins and maintaining 

pro˜tability through a normal credit cycle 

also are important. A business does this by 

having the appropriate business mix, making 

good loans and managing expenses over time. 
Clearly, some of the new rules create 
expenses and burdens on our company. 

Some of these expenses will eventually be 

passed on to clients, but we have many ways 

to manage our expenses. Simplifying our 

business, streamlining our procedures, and 

automating and digitizing processes, some of 

which previously were being done e˛ectively 

by hand, all will bring relief. For example, 
In the new world, our company has approxi
-mately 20 new or signi˜cantly enhanced 
balance sheet and liquidity-related regulatory 
requirements Œ the most critical ones are the 
GSIB capital surcharge, CCAR, the Liquidity 

Coverage Ratio, the Supplementary Leverage 

Ratio and Basel III capital. Banks must neces-
sarily optimize across these constraints to be 
able to meet all their regulatory requirements 
and, importantly, earn a pro˜t. Every bank 

has a di˛erent binding constraint, and, over 

time, that constraint may change. Currently, 

our overriding constraint is the GSIB capital 

surcharge. Our shareholders should bear in 

mind that the U.S. government requires a 

GSIB capital surcharge that is double that 

of our international competitors. And this 

additional charge may ultimately put some 

U.S. banks at a disadvantage vs. international 

competitors. This is one reason why we 

worked so hard to reduce the GSIB capital 

surcharge Œ we do not want to be an outlier 

in the long run because of it. 1717Unfortunately, some of the ˚nal rules around 
capital are still not fully known at this time. 
There are still several new rules coming that 
also could impact our company Œ probably 

the most important to us is how the GSIB 
capital surcharge is incorporated into the 

CCAR stress test. To date, we have managed 

to what we do know. We believe that when 

the ˜nal rules are made and known, we can 

adjust to them in an appropriate way. 
As banks change their business models to 

adapt to the new world, some are exiting 

certain products or regions. Market shares 

will change, and both products and product 

pricing will change over time. Therefore, we 

think there will be a lot of adjustments to 
make and tools to deploy so that we can still 

serve our clients and earn a fair pro˜t. 
We operate in more than 100 countries 

across the globe Œ and we are constantly 

analyzing the geopolitical and country risks 
that we face. The reason we operate in all 

these countries is not simply because they 

represent new markets where we can sell 

our products. When we operate in a country, 

we serve not only local institutions (govern
-
ments and sovereign institutions, banks and 

corporations in that country) but also some 
of those institutions and corporations outside 
their country, along with multinationals 

when they enter that country. This creates 

a huge network e˛ect. In all the countries 

where we operate, approximately 40% of the 

business is indigenous, 30% is outbound and 

30% is inbound. All these institutions need 

˜nancing and advice (M&A, equity, debt and 

loans), risk management (foreign exchange 

and interest rates) and asset management 
services (˜nancial planning and investment 

management), as well as operating services 

(custody and cash management) in their 

own countries and globally. It takes decades 

to build these capabilities and relationships 
Œ we cannot go in and out of a country on a 

whim, based on a short-term feeling about 

risk in that country. Therefore, we need plans 

for the long term while carefully managing 

current risk.We carefully monitor risks Š country by country. 
For each country, we take a long-term view 

of its growth potential across all our lines 
of business. Each country is di˛erent, but, 

for the most part, emerging and developing 

markets will grow faster than developed 

countries. And as they grow, the need for 
our services grows dramatically. While we 

have a future growth plan for each country, 

we obviously can™t know with any certainty 

everything that will happen or the timing 

of recessions. No matter what the future 

brings, we make sure that we can easily 

bear the losses if we are wrong in our 

assessments. For each material country, 

we look at what our losses would be under 

severe stress (not that di˛erent from the 

Fed™s CCAR stress test). We manage so 

that should the extreme situation occur, 

we might lose money, but we could easily 

handle the result. Below are a few examples 

of how we manage risk while continuing to 

serve clients in speci˜c countries.
China.
 We believe it likely that, in 20Œ25 years, 
China will be a developed nation, probably 

housing 25% or more of the top 3,000 compa-
nies globally. Going forward, we do not expect 

China to enjoy the smooth, steady growth it 

has had over the past 20 years. Reforming 

ine˝cient state-owned enterprises, developing 

healthy markets (like we have in the United 

States) with full transparency and creating a 

convertible currency where capital can move 

freely will not be easy. There will be many 

bumps in the road. We publicly disclose in 

our Form 10-K that we have approximately 

$19 billion of country exposure to China. We 

run China through a severe stress test (essen
-
tially, a major recession with massive defaults 

and trading losses), and we estimate that our 

losses in this scenario could be approximately 

$4 billion. We do not expect this situation to 
How do you manage geopolitical and country risks?
1818happen, but if it did, we could easily handle 
it. We manage our growth in China to try to 

capture the long-term value (and, remember, 

this will help a lot of our businesses outside of 

China, too) and in a way that would enable us 

to handle bad, unexpected outcomes. We don™t 

mind having a bad quarter or two, but we will 

not risk our company on 
any country. This is 

how we manage in all countries in which we 

have material activity.
Brazil. 
Brazil has had a deteriorating economy, shrinking by 3%Œ4% over the last 

year. In addition, as I write this letter, Brazil 

faces political upheaval as its president is 

being threatened with impeachment and its 

former president is being indicted. Yet the 

country has a strong judicial system, many 

well-run companies, impressive universities, 

peaceful neighbors and an enormous quan-
tity of natural resources. In Brazil, we have 

banking relationships with more than 2,000 
clients, approximately 450 multinational 

corporations going into Brazil to do business 
and approximately 50 Brazilian companies 

going outbound. Our publicly disclosed expo
-
sure to Brazil is approximately $11 billion, 

but we think that in extreme stress, we might 

lose $2 billion. In each of the last three years, 

we actually have made money in Brazil. We 

are not retreating Œ because the long-term 
prospects are probably ˜ne Œ and for decades 

to come, Brazilians will appreciate our stead
-
fastness when they most needed it. 
Argentina.
 Argentina is now a country 
with incredible opportunity. In the 1920s, 

its GDP per person was larger than that 

of France, whereas today, it is barely one-
third compared with France. Argentina is 

an example of terrible public policy, often 

adopted under the auspices of being good 
for the people, that has resulted in extraordi
-
nary damage to the economy. However, the 

country has a highly educated population, a 

new president who is making bold and intel-
ligent moves, peaceful neighbors and, like 

Brazil, an abundance of natural resources. 

You might be surprised to know that for 

the past 10 years, in spite of the country™s 

di˝culties, JPMorgan Chase has made a 

modest pro˜t there by consistently serving 

our clients and the country. This year, we 

took a little additional risk in Argentina 

with a special ˜nancing to help bring the 
country some stability and help get it back 

into the global markets. We are hoping that 

Argentina can be an example to the world of 

what can happen when a country has a good 
leader who adopts good policy.
To give you more comfort, I want to remind 
you that throughout all the international 

crises over the last decade, we maintained 

our businesses in many places that were 

under stress Œ such as Spain, Italy, Greece, 

Egypt, Portugal and Ireland. In almost every 

case, we did not have any material prob
-
lems, and we are able to navigate every 

issue and continue to serve all our clients. 

Again, we hope this will put us in good 

stead in these countries for decades. Later in 

this letter, I will talk about another poten
-
tially serious issue Œ Britain possibly leaving 

the European Union.How do you manage your interest rate exposure? Are you worried about negative interest rates 

and the growing di˚erences across countries?
No, we are not worried about negative 
interest rates in the United States. For years, 

this country has had fairly consistent job 

growth and increasingly strong consumers 

(home prices are up, and the consumer 

balance sheet is in the best shape it™s ever 

been in). Housing is in short supply, and 
household formation is going up, car sales are 

at record levels, and we see that consumers 

are spending the gas dividend. Companies 

are ˜nancially sound Œ while some segments™ 

pro˜ts are down, companies have plenty of 

cash. Nor are we worried about the diverging 

interest rate policies around the world. While 

they are a reasonable cause for concern, it 
1919is also natural that countries with di˛erent 
growth rates and varying monetary and ˜scal 

policies will have di˛erent interest rates and 

currency movements. 
I am a little more concerned about the oppo-site: seeing interest rates rise faster than 
people expect. We hope rates will rise for a 

good reason; i.e., strong growth in the United 

States. De˚ationary forces are receding Œ 

the de˚ationary e˛ects of a stronger U.S. 

dollar plus low commodity and oil prices 
will disappear. Wages appear to be going up, 

and China seems to be stabilizing. Finally, 

on a technical basis, the largest buyers of 

U.S. Treasuries since the Great Recession 

have been the U.S. Federal Reserve, countries 
adding to their foreign exchange reserve 

(such as China) and U.S. commercial banks 

(in order to meet liquidity requirements). 
These three buyers of U.S. Treasuries will not 

be there in the future. If we ever get a little 

more consumer and business con˜dence, 

that would increase the demand for credit, 

as well as reduce the incentive and desire 

of certain investors to buy U.S. Treasuries 

because Treasuries are the ﬁsafe haven.ﬂ If 

this scenario were to happen with interest 

rates on 10-year Treasuries on the rise, the 

result is unlikely to be as smooth as we all 

might hope for.
Are you worried about liquidity in the marketplace? What does it mean for JPMorgan Chase, 
 
its clients and the broader economy?
It is good to have healthy markets Œ it 
sounds obvious, but it™s worth repeating. 

There are markets in virtually everything 

Œ from corn, soybeans and wheat to eggs, 

chicken and pork to cotton, commodities 

and even the weather. For some reason, 

the debate about having healthy ˜nancial 

markets has become less civil and rational. 

Healthy ˜nancial markets allow investors 

to buy cheaper and issuers to issue cheaper. 

It is important to have liquidity in di˝cult 

times in the ˜nancial markets because 

investors and corporations often have a 

greater and unexpected need for cash.
Liquidity has gotten worse and we have seen 
extreme volatility and distortions in several 
markets.
In the last year or two, we have seen 
extreme volatility in the U.S. Treasury 

market, the G10 foreign exchange markets 

and the U.S. equity markets. We have also 

seen more than normal volatility in global 

credit markets. These violent market swings 

are usually an indication of poor liquidity. 

Another peculiar event in the market is tech
-
nical but important: U.S. Treasuries have 

been selling at a discount to their maturity-
related interest rate swaps.
One of the surprises is that these markets are 

some of the most actively traded, liquid and 

standardized in the world. The good news is 

that the system is resilient enough to handle 
the volatility. The bad news is that we don™t 

completely understand why this is happening. 
There are multiple reasons why this volatility may 
be happening:
Ł There are fewer market-makers in many 
markets.
Ł Market-makers hold less inventory Œ prob
-
ably due to the higher capital and liquidity 
required to be held against trading assets. 
Ł Smaller sizes of trades being o˛ered. It 
is true that the bid-ask spreads are still 
narrow but only if you are buying or selling 

a small amount of securities.
Ł Lower availability and higher cost of securi
-
ties ˜nancing (securities ˜nancing is very 

short-term borrowing, fully and safely collat
-
eralized by Treasuries and agency securi
-
ties), which often is used for normal money 

market operations Œ movement of collat
-
eral, short-term money market investing 

and legitimate hedging activities. This is 

clearly due to the higher cost of capital and 

liquidity under the new capital rules. 
2020We really need to be prepared for the e˛ects of 
illiquidity when we have bad markets.
In bad markets, liquidity normally dries up 
a bit Œ the risk is that it will disappear more 

quickly. Many of the new rules are even 

more procyclical than they were in the 2008 

˜nancial crisis. In addition, psychologically, 

the Great Recession is still front and center in 

people™s minds, and the instinct to run for the 

exit may continue to be strong. The real risk 

is that high volatility, rapidly dropping prices, 

and the inability of certain investors and 

issuers to raise money may not be isolated to 

the ˜nancial markets. These may feed back 

into the real economy as they did in 2008. 

The trading markets are adjusting to the new 

world. There are many non-bank participants 

that are starting to ˜ll in some of the gaps. 

Even corporations are holding more cash and 

liquidity to be more prepared for tough times. 

So this is something to keep an eye on Œ but 

not something to panic about.In a capitalistic and competitive system, 
we are completely supportive of competi
-
tors trying to ˜ll marketplace needs. One 

warning, however: Non-bank lenders that 

borrow from individuals and hedge funds 
or that rely on asset-backed securities will be 

unable to get all the funding they need in a 

crisis. This is not a systemic issue because 

they are still small in size, but it will a˛ect 

funding to individuals, small businesses and 

some middle market companies.
JPMorgan Chase is well-positioned regardless.
It is important for you to know that we 

are not overly worried about these issues 

for JPMorgan Chase. We always try to be 

prepared to handle violent markets. Our 

actual trading businesses are very strong 

(and it should give you some comfort to 

know that in all the trading days over the last 

three years, we only had losses on fewer than 

20 days, which is extraordinary). Sometimes 

wider spreads actually help market-makers, 

and some repricing of balance sheet posi-
tions, like repo, already have helped the 

consistency of our results. As usual, we try to 

be there for our clients Œ in good times and, 

more important, in tough times. 
Ł Incomplete and sometimes confusing 
rules around securitizations and mort-
gages. We still have not ˜nished all 

the rules around securitizations and in 
conjunction with far higher capital costs 
against certain types of securitizations. 

We have not had a healthy return to the 

securitization market. 
Ł The requirement to report all trades. 

This makes it much more di˝cult to buy 

securities in quantity, particularly illiquid 

securities, because the whole world knows 

your positions. This has led to a greater 

discount for almost all o˛-the-run securi
-
ties (these are the securities of an issuer 
that are less regularly traded).Ł Possible structural issues; e.g., high-

frequency trading. High-frequency 

trading usually takes place in small incre
-
ments with most high-frequency traders 
beginning and ending the day with very 

little inventory. It appears that traders add 

liquidity during the day in liquid markets, 

but they mostly disappear in illiquid 

markets. (I should point out that many 

dealers also disappear in illiquid markets.)
All trading positions have capital, liquidity, 

disclosure and Volcker Rule requirements Œ 

and they cause high GSIB capital surcharges 

and CCAR losses. It is virtually impossible 

to ˜gure out the cumulative e˛ect of all the 

requirements or what contributes to what.In our opinion, lower liquidity and higher 
volatility are here to stay.
One could reasonably argue that lower 
liquidity and higher volatility are not neces
-
sarily a bad thing. We may have had arti˜
-
cially higher liquidity in the past, and we are 

experiencing a return closer to normal. You 

certainly could argue that if this is a cost of 
a stronger ˜nancial system, it is a reason
-
able tradeo˛. Remember, the real cost is that 

purchasers and issuers of securities will, over 

time, simply pay more to buy or sell. In any 

event, lower liquidity and higher volatility 

are probably here to stay, and everyone will 

just have to learn to live with them.
2121We need to protect our customers, their data and 
our company.
We necessarily have a huge amount of data 
about our customers because of under-writing, credit card transactions and other 

activities, and we use some of this data to 

help serve our customers better (I™ll speak 

more about big data later in this letter). 
And we do extensive work to protect our 

customers and their data Œ think cyber-security, fraud protection, etc. We always 

start from the position that we want to be 

customer friendly. One item that I think 

warrants special attention is when our 

customers want to allow outside parties to 

have access to their bank accounts and their 

bank account information. Our customers 

have done this with payment companies, 

aggregators, ˜nancial planners and others. 

We want to be helpful, but we have a respon
-
sibility to each of our customers, and we are 

extremely concerned. Let me explain why: 
Ł When we all readily click ﬁI agreeﬂ online 
or on our mobile devices, allowing third-

party access to our bank accounts and 

˜nancial information, it is fairly clear 

that most of us have no idea what we 

are agreeing to or how that informa
-
tion might be used by a third party. We 

have analyzed many of the contracts of 

these third parties and have come to the 

following conclusions:
Œ Far more information is taken than the 
third party needs in order to do its job. 
Œ Many third parties sell or trade infor
-mation in a way customers may not 

understand, and the third parties, 

quite often, are doing it for their own 

economic bene˜t Œ not for the custom
-
er™s bene˜t. 
Œ Often this is being done on a daily basis 
for years after the customer signed up 

for the services, which they may no 

longer be using.
We simply are asking third parties to limit 

themselves to what they need in order to 

serve the customer and to let the customer 

know exactly what information is being used 

and why and how. In the future, instead 

of giving a third party unlimited access to 
information in any bank account, we hope to 

build systems that allow us to ﬁpushﬂ infor
-mation Œ and only that information agreed to 

by the customer Œ to that third party.
Ł Pushing speci˜c information has another 
bene˜t: Customers do not need to provide 

their bank passcode. When customers 

give out their bank passcode, they may 

not realize that if a rogue employee at 

an aggregator uses this passcode to steal 

money from the customer™s account, the 

customer, not the bank, is responsible for 

any loss. You can rest assured that when 

the bank is responsible for the loss, the 

customer will be fully reimbursed. That 

is not quite clear with many third parties. 

This lack of clarity and transparency isn™t 

fair or right. Privacy is of the utmost importance. We 

need to protect our customers and their data. 
We are now actively working with all third 

parties who are willing to work with us to set 

up data sharing the right way.
Why are you making such a big deal about protecting customers™ data in your bank?
2222III. WE ACTIVELY DEVELOP AND SUPPORT OUR EMPLOYEES
If you were able to travel the world with 
me, to virtually all major cities and coun
-
tries, you would see ˜rsthand your company 

in action and the high quality and character 

of our people. JPMorgan Chase and all its 

predecessor companies have prided them
-
selves on doing ﬁonly ˜rst-class business and 

in a ˜rst-class way.ﬂ Much of the capability 

of this company resides in the knowledge, 

expertise and relationships of our people. And 

while we always try to bring in fresh talent 

and new perspectives, we are proud that our 

senior bankers have an average tenure of 15 

years. This is testament to their experience, 

and it means they know who to call anywhere 

around the world to bring the full resources of 

JPMorgan Chase to bear for our clients.
Traveling with me, you would see our senior 

leadership team™s exceptional character, 

culture and capability. You also would 

probably notice that 20% of this leadership 
group, over 250 teammates who manage 

our businesses worldwide, is ethnically 

diverse, and more than 30% are women. 
Even though we believe that we have excel
-lent people and a strong, positive corporate 

culture, we are always examining new ways 

to improve.
How are you ensuring you have the right conduct and culture?
We reinforce our culture every chance we get.
Our Business Principles are at the forefront 

of everything we do, and we need to make 

these principles part of every major conver
-sation at the company Œ from the hiring, 

onboarding and training of new recruits to 

town halls and management meetings to how 

we reward and incentivize our people. To 

get better at this, last year we met with more 

than 16,000 employees in 1,400 focus groups 

around the world to get their feedback on 

some of our challenges and what we can do 
 to strengthen and improve our culture.
That said, we acknowledge that we, at times, 
have fallen short of the standards we have 

set for ourselves. This year, the company 

pleaded guilty to a single antitrust viola-
tion as part of a settlement with the U.S. 

Department of Justice related to foreign 

exchange activities. The conduct underlying 

the antitrust charge is principally attribut
-
able to a single trader (who has since been 
dismissed) and his coordination with traders 
at other ˜rms. As we said at the time, one 
lesson is that the conduct of a small group of 
employees, or of even a single employee, can 

re˚ect badly on all of us and can have signi˜
-
cant rami˜cations for the entire ˜rm. That™s 

why we must be ever vigilant in our commit
-
ment to fortify our controls and enhance 

our historically strong culture, continuing 

to underscore that doing the right thing is 
the responsibility of every employee at the 

company. We all have an obligation to treat 

our customers and clients fairly, to raise our 

hand when we see something wrong or to 

speak up about something that we should 

improve Œ rather than just complain about it 

or ignore it. We have intensi˚ed training and development.
We are committed to properly training and 

developing our people to enable them to 

grow and succeed throughout their careers. 

Our intent is to create e˛ective leaders who 

embody our Business Principles. 
2323WE ARE HELPING OUR EMPLOYEES STAY HEALTHY
 For us, having healthy employees is about more than improving 
the ˜rm™s bottom line; it™s about improving our employees™ lives 

Š and sometimes even saving lives. In 2015, we estimate that our 
Health & Wellness Centers intervened in more than 100 poten
-tially life-threatening situations (e.g., urgent cardiac or respiratory 
issues), and many more lives have been positively impacted by our 
numerous wellness initiatives. We believe that healthy employees 

are happy employees and that happy employees have more 

rewarding lives both inside and outside the o˝ce. 
Our commitment starts with o˛ering comprehensive bene˜ts 
programs and policies that support our employees and their 
families. To do this, JPMorgan Chase spent $1.1 billion in 2015 
on medical bene˜ts for employees based in the United States, 
where our medical plan covers more than 190,000 employees, 
spouses and partners. We tier our insurance subsidies so our 
higher earners pay more, and our lower earners pay less Š making 
coverage appropriately a˛ordable for all. We also contributed 
nearly $100 million in 2015 for employees™ Medical Reimbursement 

Accounts. And we have structured the plan in a way that preventa
-tive care and screenings are paid for by the company. 
Our bene˜ts o˛ering is supported by an extensive Wellness 
Program, which is designed to empower employees to take charge 
of their health. This includes health and wellness centers, health 

assessments and screenings, health advocates, employee assis
-tance and emotional well-being programs, and physical activity 

events. In the ˜rst year, only 36% of employees participated in 
health assessments and wellness screenings, but in 2015, 74% of 
our employees enrolled in the medical plan completed an assess
-ment and screening. Last year, our on-site wellness screenings 

helped almost 14,000 employees detect a health risk or poten
-tially serious condition and directed them to see a physician for 
follow-up. On another subject, we all know the value of eating lots 

of vegetables, so we™ve made it a priority to o˛er an abundance 
of healthy meal and snack options in our on-site cafeterias and 
vending machines.
One of the ˚agships of our Wellness Program is our Health 
& Wellness Center network. Twenty-seven of our 29 centers 
in the United States are sta˛ed with at least one doctor. 
Nearly half of our employees have access to a local center, 
and 56% of those with access walked in for a visit last year. 
These facilities are vitally important to our people. In 2015, 
these centers handled nearly 800 emergencies Š including 
the 100 potentially life-saving interventions, which I 
mentioned above. 
Maintaining a healthy lifestyle shouldn™t be a chore Š it 
should be fun. Last year, we held our second StepUp 

challenge, a global competition that not only kept our 
employees active, it supported ˜ve charities that feed the 
hungry. More than 11,000 teams Š a total of over 83,000 
employees Š added up their daily steps to take a virtual walk 
around the world. They began their journey in New York City 
and made virtual stops at seven of our o˝ce locations before 
˜nishing in Sydney. Together, they logged a total of 28.2 
billion steps, which resulted in the ˜rm donating more than 
$2 million to the ˜ve designated charities Š enough to fund 

millions of meals around the world. 
2424about business issues we have confronted 
and mistakes we have made. In its inaugural 

year, more than 4,500 managers attended 

programs with 156 sessions held at 20+ 
global locations. During 2016, over 13,000 

managers are expected to attend. I person
-
ally take part in many of these sessions, 

which are now being held next to our New 

York City headquarters at The Pierpont 

Leadership Center, a state-of-the-art ˚agship 

training center that opened in January 2016. 
JPMorgan Chase has 3,000 training 

programs, but we realized that we lacked a 

very important one: new manager develop
-
ment. Prior to 2015, when our employees 

became managers at the ˜rm for the ˜rst 

time, we basically left them on their own to 

˜gure out their new responsibilities. In 2015, 

we launched JPMorgan Chase™s Leadership 

Edge, a ˜rmwide program to train leaders 

and develop management skills. These 

training programs inculcate our leadership 
with our values, teaching from case studies 
How are you doing in your diversity e˚orts?
We are proud of our diversity – but we have more 
to do.
Our women leaders represent more than 
30% of our company™s senior leadership, 

and they run major businesses Œ several 

units on their own would be among Fortune 

1000 companies. In addition to having three 

women on our Operating Committee Œ 

who run Asset Management, Finance and 

Legal Œ some of our other businesses and 

functions headed by women include Auto 

Finance, Business Banking, U.S. Private Bank, 

U.S. Mergers & Acquisitions, Global Equity 

Capital Markets, Global Research, Regulatory 

A˛airs, Global Philanthropy, our U.S. branch 

network and ˜rmwide Marketing. I believe 

that we have some of the best women leaders 

in the corporate world globally. 
To encourage diversity and inclusion in the 
workplace, we have a number of Business 

Resource Groups (BRG) across the company 

to bring together members around common 

interests, as well as foster networking and 

camaraderie. Groups are de˜ned by shared 

a˝nities, including race and cultural heritage, 

generation, gender, sexual orientation, mili
-
tary status and professional role. For example, 

some of our largest BRGs are Adelante for 

Hispanic and Latino employees, Access Ability 

for employees a˛ected by a disability, AsPIRE 

for Asian and Paci˜c Islander employees, 

NextGen for early career professionals and 

WIN, which focuses on women and their 

career development. WIN has more than 
20,000 members globally, and we have seen a 

direct correlation between BRG membership 

and increased promotion, mobility and reten
-
tion for those participants. On the facing page, 

you can read more about some of the inter
-esting new programs we have rolled out for 

employees in speci˜c situations.
But there is one area where we simply have 
not met the standards that JPMorgan Chase 

sets for itself Œ and that is in increasing 

African-American talent at the ˜rm. While 

we think our e˛ort to attract and retain 

African-American talent is as good as at 
most other companies, it simply is not good 

enough. Therefore, we set up a devoted e˛ort 

Œ as we did for hiring veterans (we™ve hired 

10,000+ veterans) Œ to dramatically step up 

our e˛ort. We have launched Advancing 
Black Leaders Œ a separately sta˛ed and 
managed initiative to better attract and 

hire more African-American talent while 

retaining, developing and advancing the 

African-American talent we already have. 

We are taking de˜nitive steps to ensure 

a successful outcome, including an incre
-
mental $5 million investment, identifying a 

full-time senior executive to drive the initia
-
tive, tripling the number of scholarships 

we o˛er to students in this community, and 

launching bias-awareness training for all 

executive directors and managing directors. 

We hope that, over the years, this concerted 

action will make a huge di˛erence. 
2525WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED A NUMBER OF POLICIES AND PROGRAMS TO MAKE JPMORGAN CHASE AN EVEN BETTER PLACE TO WORK
We want JPMorgan Chase to be considered the best place to 
work Š period. Below are some meaningful new programs 
that will help us both attract talent and keep our best people. 
Our ReEntry program.
 Our ReEntry program, now in its third 
year, has been incredibly successful in helping individuals 
who have taken a ˜ve- to 10-year or longer voluntary break 
get back into the workforce. These are highly accomplished 
professionals who have prior ˜nancial services experience 
at or above the vice president level but who may need 
help re-entering the corporate work environment. We o˛er 
participants an 18-week fellowship to refresh their skills and 
rebuild their network. It is a great way to bring outstanding, 
experienced workers Š who often are women Š to JPMorgan 

Chase to begin the second phase of their career. In three 
years, 63 fellows have been brought into the program, and 
50 of those fellows have been placed in full-time roles.
Maternity mentors.
 A common reason for taking a prolonged 
break from work is the birth of a child. Becoming a parent is 

both joyful and stressful so we want to do everything we can 
to support our employees through this life-changing event. 
Last year, we extended primary caregiver parental leave to 
16 weeks, up from 12, and, this year, we are introducing a 
˜rmwide maternity mentorship program. The program will 
pair senior employees who have gone through the parental 
leave process with those who are doing so for the ˜rst time. 
It was piloted last year to overwhelmingly positive feedback, 
with participants expressing deep appreciation for having a 

colleague they could turn to for advice on everything from 
how to balance work with their new home dynamic to nursing 
room protocol. Importantly, these senior mentors also provide 
peace of mind around job security and how to manage the 
entire transition, from preparing to leave, managing mother
-hood during the leave and returning to work. In addition, this 

program not only supports the employee going out on mater
-nity leave, but it also helps educate the employee™s manager 

Š on how to stay connected with the employee and ensure that 
the leave is being handled with ˚exibility and sensitivity in order 

to give the employee comfort that her role will be there upon 
her return.
Work-life balance. 
We speak consistently about the need for our 
employees to take care of their minds, their bodies and their 

souls. This is the responsibility of each and every employee, but 
there are also ways the ˜rm can help. People frequently think 
work-life balance refers to working parents; however, having an 
e˛ective balance is important for everyone™s well-being, including 
our junior investment bankers. In the Investment Bank, we have 
reduced weekend work to only essential execution work for all 
employees. And the protected weekend program for analysts 
and associates will remain in place and now is mandatory for all 
at this level globally.
2626With all the new rules, committees and centralization, how can you ˜ght bureaucracy 
and complacency and keep morale high?
In the reality of our new world, centraliza
-tion of many critical functions is an abso
-
lute requirement so that we can maintain 

common standards across the company. 

Of course, extreme centralization can lead 

to sti˚ing bureaucracy, less innovation 

and, counterintuitively, sometimes a lack 

of accountability on the part of those who 
should have it. Our preference is to decen
-
tralize when we can, but when we have 

to centralize, we need to ensure we set 

up a process that™s e˝cient, works for the 

customer and respects the internal colleagues 
who may have lost some local control.
Processes need to be re-engineered to be 
e˜cient. 
So far, our managers have done a 
great job adjusting to their new roles and, 
in e˛ect, getting the best of centralization 

without its shortcomings. When, on occa
-
sion, new procedures have slowed down our 

response rate to the client, we quickly set 

about re-engineering the process to make 

it better. While we are going to meet and 

exceed all rules and requirements, we need 

to ensure that the process is not duplicative 

or that rules are not misapplied. For example, 

adhering to the new KYC rules took us up 
to 10 days to onboard a client to our Private 

Bank. But today, after re-engineering the 

process, we are back down to three days, 

incorporating enhanced controls. We all need 

to recognize that good processes generally 
are faster, cheaper and
 safer for all involved, 

including the client.People should not just accept bureaucracy Š they 
have the right to question processes and the 

interpretation of rules. 
We have given all our 
people the license to question whether what we are doing is the right thing, including 

the interpretation of rules and regulations. 

Very often, in our desire to exceed regulatory 

requirements and to avoid making a mistake, 
we have inaccurately interpreted a rule or 

regulation and created our own excessive 

bureaucracy. This is no one™s fault but our 

own. Everyone should look to simplify and 

seek out best practices, including asking our 

regulators for guidance.
Committees need to be properly run Š the chair
-person needs to take charge. 
We have asked all 
our committees to become more e˝cient. For 

example, we should ensure that pre-reading 

materials are accurate and succinct. The 

right people need to be in the room and very 

rarely should the group exceed 12 people. 

An issue should not be presented to multiple 
committees when it could be dealt with in 
just one committee (remember, we have new 

business initiative approval committees, 

credit committees, reputational risk commit
-
tees, capital governance committees, global 

technology architecture committees and 

hundreds of others). We have asked that each chair of every 
committee take charge Œ start meetings on 

time, make sure people arrive prepared and 

actually have read the pre-read documents, 

eliminate frivolous conversation, force the 

right questions to get to a decision, read the 

riot act to someone behaving badly, maintain 

a detailed follow-up list specifying who is 

responsible for what and when, and ensure 

the committee meets its obligations and time 

commitments. And last, we encourage each 

chair to ask the internal customers if he or 

she is doing a good job for them.
We have maintained high morale.
 Our people have embraced the new regulations and are 

working hard to become the gold standard 

in how we operate. We don™t spend any time 

˜nger-pointing or scapegoating our own 

people, looking for someone to blame purely 

for the sake of doing so when we make a 

mistake. And importantly, we have main
-
tained a culture that allows for mistakes. 

Obviously, if someone violates our core prin
-
ciples, that person should not be here. But as 

you know, there are all types of mistakes. 
 2727We don™t want to be known as a company 
that doesn™t give people a second chance 

regardless of the circumstances. I remind all 

our managers that some of these mistakes 

will be made by our children, our spouses 
or our parents. Having a brutal, uncompro
-
mising and unforgiving company will create 

a terrible culture over time Œ and it will lead 

to worse conduct not better. 
Quite well, thank you. The Board of Directors 

and I feel we have one of the best manage
-
ment teams we have ever had. Many of our 

investors who have spent a considerable 

amount of time with our leaders Œ not just 
with my direct reports but with the layer 

of management below them Œ will tell you 

how impressed they are with the depth and 

breadth of our management team. Of course, 

we have lost some people, but we wish them 

well Œ we are proud of our alumni. One of 

the negatives of being a good company is 

that you do become a breeding ground for 

talent and a recruiting target for competitors. 

It is the job of our management team to keep 

our key talent educated, engaged, motivated 

and happy. Our people are so good that we 

should say thank you every day.
How are you doing retaining key people?
Our company has stood the test of time 
because we are building a strong culture and 

are embedding our principles in everything 

we do. Nothing is more important. That is 

the pillar upon which all things rest Œ and it 

is the foundation for a successful future.
28IV.
  WE ARE HERE TO SERVE OUR CLIENTS
We have to be innovating all the time to 
succeed. Investing in the future is critical 

to our business and crucial for our growth. 

Every year we ask, ﬁAre we doing enough? 

And should we be spending more?ﬂ We do 

not cut back on ﬁgood spendingﬂ to meet 

budget or earnings targets. We view this type 

of cost cutting like an airline scaling back 

on maintenance Œ it™s a bad idea. We spent 

more than $9 billion last year on technology. 

Importantly, 30% of this total amount was 

spent on new investments for the future. 

Today, we have more than 40,000 technolo
-
gists, from programmers and analysts to 

systems engineers and application designers. 

In addition, our resources include 31 data 

centers, 67,000 physical servers globally, 

27,920 databases and a global network that 

operates smoothly for all our clients. There 

are many new technologies that I will not 

discuss here (think cloud, containerization 

and virtualization) but which will make 

every single part of this ecosystem increas
-
ingly more e˝cient over time.
We need to innovate in both big and small ways.
Technology often comes in big waves Œ such 

as computerization, the Internet and mobile 

devices. However, plenty of important 

innovation involves lots of little things that 

are additive over time and make a product 

or a service better or faster; for example, 

simplifying online applications, improving 

ATMs to do more (e.g., depositing checks) 

and speeding up credit underwriting. Many 

of these improvements were not just the 

result of technology but the result of teams 
of people across Legal, Finance, Technology 

and Client Coverage & Support working 

together to understand, simplify and auto
-
mate processes. 
One of our growing teams is our digital group, including more than 400 profes
-
sionals focused on product and platform 

design and innovation. In addition, the digital 

technology organization has over 1,200 

technologists that deliver digital solutions, 

including frameworks, development and 

architecture. This is an exceptional group, 

but you can judge for yourself when you 

read about some of the great projects being 
rolled out. We have thousands of such projects, but I 
just want to give you a sample of some of 

our current initiatives (I will talk extensively 

later about investments in payments, in big 

data and in our Investment Bank):
Ł Consumer digital. 
We are intently focused 
on delivering di˛erentiated digital experi
-ences across our consumer businesses. 

For example, we added new functionality 

to our mobile app with account preview 

and check viewing, and we redesigned 

chase.com with simpler navigation and 

more personalized experiences, making 

it easier for our customers to bank and 

interact with us when and how they want 

Œ via smartphones, laptops and other 

mobile devices. We now have nearly 23 

million active Chase Mobile customers, 
 a 20% increase over the prior year.
Many of the new and exciting things we are 

doing center on technology, including big 

data and FinTech. We are continually inno
-vating to serve our clients better, faster and 

cheaper Œ year after year.
How do you view innovation, technology and FinTech? And have banks been good innovators? 

Do you have economies of scale, and how are they bene˜ting your clients?
2829Ł Digital and Global Wealth Management.
 We will be investing approximately 
$300 million over the next three years 

in digital initiatives for Asset Manage
-
ment. In Global Wealth Management, we 

have modernized the online experience 

for clients, enabled mobile access, and 

launched a digital portal for access to our 

research and analysis across all channels. 

In addition, we are rolling out a user-

friendly and powerful planning tool that 

our advisors can use with clients in real 

time. We are also working on some great 

new initiatives around digital wealth 

management, which we will disclose 
 later this year.
Ł Digital Commercial Banking.
 In Commercial Banking, J.P. Morgan ACCESS delivers a 

platform for clients to manage and pull 

together all their Treasury activities in a 

single, secure portal, which was ranked as 

the #1 cash management portal in North 
America by Greenwich Associates in 2014. 

We continue to invest in digital enhance
-
ments, releasing in 2015 our proprietary 

and integrated mobile solution for remote 

check deposits to help clients further 

streamline their back-o˝ce reconciliations. 

We are also investing in improving the 

overall user experience around key items 

such as entitlements (designating who can 

make payments) and work˚ow, bringing 

to our commercial digital platforms some 

of the same enhancements we™ve brought 

to our Consumer Banking sites. 
 While we make a huge e˛ort to protect 

our own company in terms of cybersecu
-
rity, we try to help protect our clients from 

cyber threats as well. We have extensive 

fraud and malware detection capabilities 

that signi˜cantly reduce wire fraud on 
our customers. We™ve increased our client 

cybersecurity education and awareness 

programs, having communicated with 

more than 11,000 corporate customers on 
this topic and hosting nearly 50 cybersecu-
rity client events in 2015.
Ł Small business digital. 
Small businesses are 
important to Chase and to the communi
-
ties we serve. Small businesses have a 

variety of banking needs, with approxi
-
mately 60% of our customers using our 

checking accounts or business credit cards. 

And like our consumer client base, they 

depend heavily on the technology that 

already is o˛ered in our Consumer busi
-
ness. But we are very excited about two 

new initiatives this year:
Œ Our new brand ﬁChase for Businessﬂ 
is not just a brand. Over time, we will 

simplify forms, speed applications and 

dramatically improve the customer 

experience. This year or next, we 

will roll out an online digital applica-
tion that allows a Business Banking 
customer to sign up for the ﬁtriple 

playﬂ with one signature and in one 

day. ﬁTriple playﬂ stands for a deposit 

account, a business credit card and 

Chase merchant processing Œ all at 

once. Now that™s customer service! 
Œ Chase Business Quick Capital. Working 

with a FinTech company called OnDeck, 

we will be piloting a new working 

capital product. The process will be 

entirely digital, with approval and 

funding generally received within one 

day vs. the current process that can 

take up to one month or more. The 

loans will be Chase branded, retained 

on our balance sheet, and subject to our 

pricing and risk parameters. 
Ł Commercial Term Lending.
 In our Commer
-cial Term Lending business, our competi
-
tive advantage is our process Œ we strive 

to close commercial real estate loans 

faster and more e˝ciently than the 

industry average. That has allowed us 

to drive $25 billion of loan growth since 

2010, representing a ˜ve-year compound 

average growth rate (CAGR) of 11% 

and outpacing the industry CAGR of 

4% while maintaining credit discipline. 

Technological innovation will continue to 

improve our process Œ later in the year, 

we will be rolling out a proprietary loan 
2930origination system that will set a new 
industry standard for closure speed and 

customer service.
Yes, we are always improving our economies 
of scale (to the ultimate bene˚t of our clients). 
And yes, over time, banks have been enormous 
innovators.
We commonly hear the comment that a bank 
of our size cannot generate economies of 
scale that bene˜t the client. And we often 

hear people say that banks don™t innovate. 

Neither of these comments is accurate. Below 

I give a few examples of the large and small 

innovations that we are working on:
Ł Consumer and small business banking 
accounts.
 Many decades ago, bank accounts 
meant checks and a monthly statement, 
with few additional bene˜ts provided to 

customers (other than maybe a toaster). 

Today, most checking accounts come with 

many bene˜ts: debit cards, online bill pay, 

24-hour access to online account informa
-
tion, fraud alerts, mobile banking, relevant 

rewards and ATM access.
Ł ATMs. 
Today, ATMs are ubiquitous (we 
have almost 18,000 ATMs, and our 

customers love them). These ATMs have 

gone from simple cash dispensers to 
state-of-the-art service centers, allowing 

customers to receive di˛erent denomina
-
tions of bills, accept deposited checks, pay 

certain bills and access all their accounts. 
Ł The cost and ability to raise capital and buy 
and sell securities. Thirty years ago, it cost, 
on average, 15 cents to trade a share of 
stock, 100 basis points to buy or sell a 

corporate single-A bond and $200,000 
to do a $100 million interest rate swap. 

Today, it costs, on average, 1.5 cents to 

trade a share of stock, 10 basis points to 

buy a corporate single-A bond and $10,000 
to do a $100 million interest rate swap. 

And much can be done electronically, 

increasingly on a mobile device and with 
mostly straight-through processing, which 

reduces error rates and operational costs Œ for both us and our clients. These capa
-
bilities have dramatically reduced costs 

to investors and issuers for capital raising 

and securities transactions.
Ł Cash management capabilities for corpora
-tions. It is impossible to describe in a few sentences what companies had to do to move money around the world 40 years 

ago. Today, people can move money glob
-
ally on mobile devices and immediately 
convert it into almost any currency they 

want. They have instant access to informa
-
tion, and the cost is a fraction of what it 

used to be. 
FinTech and innovation have been going on my 
entire career Š it™s just faster today. 
If you look at the banking business over 
decades, it has always been a huge user of 

new technologies. This has been going on 

my entire career, though it does appear to be 

accelerating and coming at us from many 

di˛erent angles. While many FinTech ˜rms 

are good at utilizing new technologies, we 

should recognize that they are very good 

at analyzing and ˜xing business problems 

and improving the customer experience (i.e., 

reducing pain points). Sometimes they ˜nd a 

way to provide these services more e˝ciently 

and in a less costly manner; for example, 

cloud services. And sometimes these services 

are not less expensive but provide a faster and 

simpli˜ed experience that customers value 

and are willing to pay for. You see this in 

some FinTech lending and payment services. 
It is unquestionable that FinTech will force 
˜nancial institutions to move more quickly, 

and banks, regulators and government policy 

will need to keep pace. Services will be rolled 

out faster, and more of them will be executed 

on a mobile device. FinTech has been great at 

making it easier and often less expensive for 

customers and will likely lead to many more 

people, including more lower-income people, 

joining the banking system in the United 
States and abroad. 3031You can rest assured that we continually 
and vigorously analyze the marketplace, 

including FinTech companies. We want to 

stay up to date and be extremely informed, 

and we are always looking for ways to 

improve what we do. We are perfectly 

willing to compete by building capabilities 

(we have large capabilities in-house) or to 

collaborate by partnering. 
Whether we compete or collaborate, we 
try to do what is in the best interest of 
the customer. We also partner with more 

than 100 FinTech companies Œ just as we 

have partnered over the past decade with 
hundreds of other technology providers. We 

need to be very technologically competent 

because we know that some of our competi
-
tors will be very good. All businesses have 

clear weak spots, and those weaknesses will 

be Œ and should be Œ exploited by competi
-
tors. This is how competitive markets work. 

One of the areas we spend a lot of time 

thinking and worrying about is payments. 

Part of the payments system is based on 

archaic, legacy architecture that is often 

unfriendly to the customer.
How do you intend to win in payments, particularly with so many strong competitors Š many 

from Silicon Valley? 
Right now, we are one of the biggest 
payments companies in the world (across 

credit and debit cards, merchant payments, 

global wire transfers, etc.). But that has not 

lulled us into a false sense of security Œ and 
we know we need to continue to innovate 

aggressively to grow and win in this area. 

The trifecta of Chase Paymentech, ChaseNet 

and Chase Pay, supported by signi˜cant 

investment in innovation, has us very excited 

and gives us a great opportunity to continue 

to be one of the leading companies in the 
payments business. Let me explain why. 
Chase Paymentech.
 We already are one of the 
largest merchant processors in the United 

States (merchant processors provide those 

little machines that you swipe your card 

through at the point of sale in a store or 

that process online payments). We are 

quickly signing up large and medium-sized 

merchants Œ this year alone, we signed 

up some names that you all recognize, 

including Starbucks, Chevron, Marriott, 

Rite Aid and Cinemark. And I™ve already 

described how the partnership with Busi-
ness Banking makes it easier for small busi
-
nesses to connect with Chase Paymentech. 

In all these instances, we have simpli˜ed, 

and, in some cases, o˛ered better pricing, 

as well as made signup easier Œ exactly 

what the merchants want. And very often it 

comes with – ChaseNet.ChaseNet. 
ChaseNet, through Visa, allows us 
to o˛er a merchant di˛erent and cheaper 

pricing, a streamlined contract and rules, and 

enhanced data sharing, which can facilitate 

sales and authorization rates. Again, these 

are all things merchants want. (You can 

see that we are trying hard to improve the 

relationship between banks and merchants.) 

We expect volume in ChaseNet to reach 

approximately $50 billion in 2016 (up 100% 

from 2015), as we have signed up and are 

starting to onboard clients such as Starbucks, 

Chevron, Marriott and Rite Aid. In conjunc
-
tion with Chase Paymentech and ChaseNet, 

both of which allow us to o˛er merchants 

great deals, we also can o˛er – Chase Pay.
Chase Pay. 
Chase Pay, our Chase-branded 
digital wallet, is the digital equivalent to 

using your debit or credit card. It will allow 

you to pay online with a ﬁChase Payﬂ button 

or in-store with your mobile phone. We also 

hope to get the Chase Pay button inside 

merchant apps. Chase Pay will o˛er lower 

cost of payment, loyalty programs and fraud 

liability protection to merchants, as well 

as simple checkout, loyalty rewards and 

account protection to consumers. As one great 

example, Chase has signed a payments agree
-
ment with Starbucks, which, we hope, will 

drive Chase Pay adoption. Customers will be 

able to use the Chase Pay mobile app at more 
3132than 7,500 company-operated Starbucks loca
-tions in the United States and to reload a Star-bucks Card within the Starbucks mobile app 

and on starbucks.com. Finally, to make Chase 

Pay even more attractive, we are building – 

real-time person-to-person (P2P) payments.
Real-time P2P payments. 
In conjunction with 
six partner banks, Chase is launching a P2P 

solution with real-time funds availability. The 

new P2P solution will securely make real-time 

funds available through a single consumer-

facing brand. Chase and the partner banks 

represent 60% of all U.S. consumers with 

mobile banking apps. We intend to keep P2P 

free for consumers, and the network consor
-tium is open for all banks to join.
We are absolutely convinced that the trifecta 
Œ Chase Paymentech, ChaseNet and Chase 

Pay Œ will be dramatically better, cheaper and 

safer for our customers and our merchants. 

We also are convinced that the investments 

we are making in Chase Paymentech and 

ChaseNet will pay o˛ handsomely. The 
investment in Chase Pay is not as certain. But 

we think that the investment will be worth 

it and that it will help drive more merchants 

wanting to do business with us and more 

customers wanting to open checking 

accounts with us and use our credit cards. 
I also want to mention one more payment 
capability, this one for our corporate clients: 
Corporate QuickPay.
 Leveraging tremendous 
investment in our retail payment capa
-
bilities, our wholesale businesses launched 

Corporate QuickPay in 2015. This mobile and 

web-based solution provides our clients with 

a low-cost alternative to expensive paper 

checks, reducing their expenses by almost 

two-thirds. In addition, the platform dramati
-
cally improves security, increases payment-

processing speed, eases reporting and signi˜
-
cantly enhances the customer experience. 
I hope you can see why we are so excited.
You always seem to be segmenting your businesses Š how and why are you doing this?
We will always be segmenting our busi
-nesses to become more knowledgeable about 
and closer to the client. This segmentation 

allows us to tailor our products and services 
to better serve their needs. Below are some 

examples of how and why we do this.
In Consumer Banking,
 we have the bene˜t of 
really knowing our customers. We know 

about their ˜nancial stability, interests, 

where they live and their families. That data 

can be a tremendous force in serving them. 

By understanding customers well beyond a 

demographic pro˜le, we can better antici
-
pate what they need. Historically, we used 

demographics and behavior to segment our 

customers, but we increasingly take attitudes, 

values and aspirations into consideration 

to o˛er each customer more relevant and 

personalized products, services and rewards. 

As one important example, we hope to roll 
out an ﬁAlways On O˛ersﬂ section for our 

customers on chase.com, where they can 

access all the products they qualify for at 
 
any given time. 
In Commercial Banking,
 we continue to develop 
and enhance our Specialized Industries 
coverage, which now serves a total of 15 

distinct industries and approximately 9,000 

clients across the United States, with eight 

industries launched in the last ˜ve years. 

Below are a few service examples taken from 

these new industries:Ł Agricultural industry group. 
Not only do we 
have specialized underwriting for clients 
within this group, but we also can help 

our clients navigate commodity price 

cycles and seasonality, as well as provide 

industry-speci˜c credit and risk manage-
ment tools, such as interest rate and 

commodity hedging. 
3233Ł Healthcare industry group. 
In addition to delivering access to capital and other 
˜nancial services, we can help our 

healthcare clients manage the constantly 
changing regulatory environment and 

adjust their businesses to comply with the 
Patient Protection and A˛ordable Care 

Act and other new regulations. In addi
-
tion, our web-based tools are making it 

easier for healthcare providers to migrate 

payments from expensive paper checks to 

e˝cient electronic transactions.
Ł Technology industry group. 
To serve our 
technology clients, we have expanded 

our coverage to include 30 bankers in 

11 key markets, all highly aligned with 

our Investment Banking team. With 
this model, we can provide investment 

banking services, comprehensive payment 

capabilities and international products to 

address the needs of technology clients 

through every stage of growth. 
In Asset Management,
 we have dedicated 
groups that cover highly specialized segments. 

Some of these segments are: De˜ned Bene˜t 

Pension Plans, De˜ned Contribution Pension 

Plans, Endowments & Foundations, Family 

O˝ces and Insurance Companies. 
How and why do you use big data?
We have enormous quantities of data, and 
we have always been data fanatics, using 

big data responsibly in loan underwriting, 

market-making, client selection, credit under
-writing and risk management, among other 

areas. But comparing today™s big data with 

yesterday™s old-style data is like the di˛er
-ence between a mobile phone and a rotary 

phone. Big data truly is powerful and can be 

used extensively to improve our company. 
To best utilize our data assets and spur 
innovation, we have built our own extraor
-dinary in-house big data capabilities Œ we 

think as good as any in Silicon Valley Œ 

populated with more than 200 analysts and 

data scientists, which we call Intelligent 

Solutions. And we are starting to use these 

capabilities across all our businesses. I want 

to give you a sample of what we are doing Œ 

and it is just the beginning:Ł Commercial Banking. 
We are using big data 
in many ways in Commercial Banking. 

One area is responsible prospecting. It 

always was hard to get a proper list of 

client prospects (i.e., get the prospect™s 

working telephone number or email 

address, get an accurate description of the 

business and maybe get an introduction 

to the decision maker at the company). 

Using big data, we have uncovered and 

quali˜ed twice as many high-quality pros
-
pects, and we are signi˜cantly more e˛ec
-
tive in assuring that the best banker is 

calling on the highest-potential prospects. 

This has given us con˜dence in knowing 

that if we hire more bankers, they can be 

pro˜tably deployed.
Ł Consumer Banking. 
Within the Consumer 
Bank, we use big data to improve under
-writing, deliver more targeted marketing 

and analyze the root causes of customer 
attrition. This will lead to more accounts, 

higher marketing e˝ciencies, reduced 

costs and happy customers.
3334Ł Operational e˜ciencies.
 In the Corporate & 
Investment Bank, big data is being used 
to analyze errors, thereby improving 

operational e˝ciencies. In one example, in 

our Custody business, big data is helping 

identify and explain the breaks and vari
-
ances in the calculation of net asset values 

of funds, thereby reducing the operational 

burden and improving client service.
Ł Operational intelligence.
 Our technology 
infrastructure creates an enormous 
amount of machine data from which we 
gain valuable operational intelligence. This 

information helps support the stability 

and resiliency of our systems Œ enabling 
us to identify little problems before they 

become big problems.
Ł Fraud security and surveillance.
 Needless to 
say, these big data capabilities are being 

used to decrease fraud, reduce risk in the 

cyber world, and even monitor internal 

systems to detect employee fraud and 

bad behavior.
Why are you investing in sales and trading, as well as in your Investment Bank, when others 

seem to be cutting back?
Trading is an absolutely critical function 
in modern society Œ for investors large and 

small and for corporations and governments. 

As the world grows, the absolute need for 

trading will increase globally as assets under 
management, trade, corporate clients and 

economies grow. We disclosed on Investor 

Day that we continue to make a fair pro˜t in 

almost all our trading businesses despite the 
higher costs and what is probably a perma-
nent reduction in volumes. While the busi
-
ness will always be cyclical, we are convinced 

that our clients will continue to need broad 
services in all asset classes and that we have 

the scale to be pro˜table through the cycle. 
Sales and trading educates the world about 
companies, securities and economies. Clients 

will always need advice and the ability to 

transact. This education also makes it easier 

for corporations to sell their securities so 
they can invest and grow. Much of the invest
-ment we are making in sales and trading is 

in technology, both to adjust to new regula
-
tions and to make access to trading faster, 

cheaper and safer than it has been in the 

past. Across electronic trading, we have seen 

a doubling of users and signi˜cant volume 

increases of 175% across products in just the 
last year. Below are a few examples:
Foreign exchange (FX). 
We continue to make 
signi˜cant investments in FX e-trading and 

our single-dealer platform. More than 95% 

of our FX spot transactions are now done 
electronically as the market has increasingly 

shifted to electronic execution over the years. 

We were also ˜rst to deliver FX trading on 

mobile devices through our award-winning 

eXecute application on the J.P. Morgan 

Markets platform. Our continued investment 

in the FX business, in which we process an 

average of nearly 500,000 trades each day, 

has propelled us to be a leader in the market. 
Equities.
 In the last ˜ve years, on the back 
of our investments in both technology 

and people, our U.S. electronic cash equity 

market share has nearly quadrupled. We 

have also witnessed an increased straight-

through processing rate Œ going from 70% 
two years ago to 97% today.
Prime Brokerage. 
Our Prime Brokerage plat
-form, which was once a predominantly U.S. 

operation, is now a top-tier global business 

that continues to grow clients and balances. 

Our international and DMA (direct market 

access) electronic footprint has expanded 

rapidly since 2012. Financing balances 

are at all-time highs, with international 

balances up more than 60% and synthetic 

balances up more than 350%, simultane
-
ously reducing balance sheet consumption 

and enhancing returns. 
3435Rates trading.
 With the adoption of new 
regulations, we anticipate that this market 
will also continue to see increased volumes of 

e-trading. As a result, we have developed auto
-
mated pricing systems that can price swaps in 

a fraction of a second on electronic platforms. 

Our SEF (swap execution facility) aggregator 

allows clients to see the best price available to 

them across the global market of interest rate 

swaps and ﬁclick to tradeﬂ via our platform on 

an agency basis. This helps our clients execute 

transactions via any channel they desire, on 

a principal or agent basis. Today, over 50% of 

our U.S. dollar swaps volume is traded and 

processed electronically. 
Commodities. 
Leveraging our FX capabilities, 
we have developed a complete electronic 

o˛ering in precious and base metals. We 

are also extending the same capabilities to 

energy products, where we have executed 

our ˜rst electronic trade in oil. We plan to 

further extend our e-trading capabilities 

across the commodities markets, including 

agricultural products. 
Derivatives processing.
 The implementation 
of our strategic over-the-counter derivatives 

processing platform has promoted a 30% 

increase in portfolio volume and a more 

than 50% decrease in cost per trade in four 

years. The platform now settles $2.2 trillion 

of derivative notionals each day and has 

been instrumental in improving operational 
Why are you still in the mortgage business?
That is a valid question. The mortgage busi
-ness can be volatile and has experienced 

increasingly lower returns as new regula
-
tions add both sizable costs and higher 
capital requirements. In addition, it is not 

just the cost of the new rules in origination 
and servicing, it is the enormous complexity 

of those new requirements that can lead 
to problems and errors. It is now virtually 

impossible not to make some mistakes Œ and 

as you know, the price for making an error is 

very high. So why do we want to stay in this 

business? Here™s why:
delivery, control and client service, as demon
-
strated by a more than 60% reduction in 

cash settlement breaks and a 50% increase in 
straight-through processing of equity deriva
-
tives con˜rmations.
In all these cases, greater operational e˝cien
-cies and higher straight-through processing 
drive lower costs and lead to happy clients. 
We also continue to make investments in 
research and the coverage of clients. A couple 

of examples will su˝ce:
Research platform. 
We continue our research 
investments both in the quality of our 

people and in the number of companies 

and sectors we cover. In 2015, we expanded 

our global equity research coverage to 

more than 3,700 companies, the broadest 

equity company coverage platform among 

our competitors. With material increases 

in the United States Œ we expanded sector 

coverage in energy, banks, insurance and 

industrials Œ and in China, we doubled our 

A-share coverage. 
Increased Investment Banking coverage. 
We are 
actively recruiting and hiring senior bankers 

in areas where we were either underpen
-
etrated or where there has been incremental 
secular growth, such as energy, technology, 

healthcare and Greater China. Ł Mortgages are important to our customers.
 For most of our customers, their home is 
the single largest purchase they will make 

in their lifetime. More than that, it is an 

emotional purchase Œ it is where they 

are getting their start, raising a family or 

maybe spending their retirement years. 

As a bank that wants to build lifelong 

relationships with its customers, we want 

to be there for them at life™s most critical 

junctures. Mortgages are important to our 

customers, and we still believe that we 

have the brand and scale to build a higher-

quality and less volatile mortgage business.
3536Ł Originations. 
We reduced our product set 
from 37 to 15, we will complete the rollout 
of a new originations system, and we will 

continue to leverage digital channels to 

make the application process easier for 

our customers and more e˝cient for us. 

In addition, we have dramatically reduced 

Federal Housing Administration (FHA) 

originations. Currently, it simply is too 

costly and too risky to originate these 

kinds of mortgages. Part of the risk comes 

from the penalties that the government 

charges if you make a mistake Œ and 

part of the risk is because these types of 
mortgages default frequently. And in the 

new world, the cost of default servicing is 

extraordinarily high.
Ł Servicing.
 If we had our druthers, we 
would never service a defaulted mortgage 

again. We do not want to be in the busi
-
ness of foreclosure because it is exceed
-ingly painful for our customers, and it is 

di˝cult, costly and painful to us and our 

reputation. In part, by making fewer FHA 

loans, we have helped reduce our foreclo
-
sure inventory by more than 80%, and 

we are negotiating arrangements with 

Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to have any 

delinquent mortgages insured by them be 

serviced by them.
Ł Community Reinvestment Act and Fair 
Lending.
 Finally, while making fewer FHA 
loans can make it more di˝cult to meet 
our Community Reinvestment Act and 

Fair Lending obligations, we believe we 

have solutions in place to responsibly 

meet these obligations Œ both the more 

subjective requirements and the quantita
-
tive components Œ without unduly jeopar
-dizing our company.
3637V.
 WE HAVE ALWAYS SUPPORTED OUR COMMUNITIES
Most large companies are outstanding corpo-rate citizens Œ and they have been for a long 

time. They compensate their people fairly, 

they provide critical medical and retirement 

plans, and they™re in the forefront of social 

policy; for example, in sta˝ng a diverse 
You seem to be doing more and more to support your communities Š how and why?
Since our founding in New York more than 
200 years ago, JPMorgan Chase and its 

predecessor banks have been leaders in their 

communities. This is nothing new. For 

example, in April 1906, J.P. Morgan & Co. 

made Wall Street™s largest contribution 

Œ $25,000 Œ to, as 
The New York Times
 
described it at the time, ﬁextend practical 

sympathy to the stricken people of San 

Francisco.ﬂ This was two days after the 

earthquake that destroyed 80% of the city 

and killed 3,000 people. In February 2016, we 

played much the same role when the ˜rm 

and our employees contributed hundreds of 

thousands of dollars to pay for medical 

services for children exposed to lead in the 

Flint, Michigan, water crisis. And over the 

last several years, we have given more than 

$20 million to help in the aftermath of 
natural disasters, from tsunamis in Asia to 

Superstorm Sandy in the northeast United 

States (and it was gratifying to see how 

employees rallied with their time and with 

the full resources of the ˜rm to help). workforce, hiring veterans and e˛ectively 

training people for jobs. They, like all institu
-
tions, are not perfect, but they try their best 

to obey the spirit and the letter of the laws of 

the land in which they operate.
In addition to our annual philanthropic giving Œ which now totals over $200 million 

a year Œ we are putting our resources, the 

expertise of our business leaders, our data, 

relationships and knowledge of global 
markets into signi˜cant e˛orts aimed at 

boosting economic growth and expanding 

opportunity for those being left behind in 

today™s economy. We have made 
long-term 
global commitments to workforce readi
-
ness, getting small businesses the capital 

and support they need to grow, improving 

consumer ˜nancial health and supporting 
strong urban economies. You can read more 

detail about these programs on pages 71-72. 
And in the sidebars in this section, you can 

hear directly from some of our partners 
about our e˛orts. We think these initia
-
tives will make a signi˜cant contribution 

to creating more economic opportunity for 

more people around the world.
In particular, I want to tell you about an 
exciting new community service program 

we have developed that is capitalizing on our 

most important resource Œ the talent of our 
people. The Service Corps program recruits 

top-performing employees from around the 

world to put their skills and expertise to 

work on behalf of nonpro˜t partners that 

are helping to build stronger communities. 

This program, combining leadership devel
-
opment with philanthropic purpose, started 

small in Brazil, grew into the Detroit Service 

Corps as part of our investment there, and 

has now spread across the globe, with proj
-
ects in Africa, Asia, and North and South 
3738America. Service Corps employees work 
on-site with nonpro˜ts on projects that last 

three weeks. In total, 64 people have been 

involved in 22 projects. And this program 

will continue to grow in the coming years 

to other domestic and international loca-
tions. While supporting our nonpro˜t 

partners to deliver on their mission, our 

employees also gain enormous satisfaction 

and sense of purpose from the opportunity 

to help. In addition, as they travel across 

the globe and interact with their peers, 

they develop a great, permanent camara
-
derie that helps unite our employees from 

around the world in a commitment to 

make a di˛erence in our communities. 
   PARTNERSHIP IN DETROIT 
 by Mayor Mike Duggan
  
 Detroit is coming back. After years of challenges, we are 

seeing signs of real progress in our neighborhoods and 
 business districts. 
Two years into our administration, we™ve brought back ˜scal 
discipline and have balanced the city™s budget for the ˜rst time 
in more than a decade. We™ve installed 61,000 new LED street
-lights in our neighborhoods. Buses are running on schedule 
for the ˜rst time in 20 years and are serving 100,000 more 
riders each week. We™ve taken down nearly 8,000 blighted 
homes and, as a result, are seeing double-digit property value 
increases across the majority of the city. Perhaps most impor
-tant, 8,000 more Detroiters are working today than two years 

ago, thanks to e˛orts to attract new investment and develop 
our workforce. 
None of these positive steps would have been possible without 
the partnerships we™ve established in Washington, D.C., in 
our state capital of Lansing, with the Detroit City Council, and 
especially with our residents and partners in the business and 
philanthropic communities. 
When our friends at JPMorgan Chase started thinking about 
making a $100 million investment in Detroit, they started o˛ 
by asking about our priorities for the city™s recovery Š not just 
mine but those of our community and philanthropic leaders 
as well. Today, we can see the impact of JPMorgan Chase™s 

commitment to Detroit in many places Š in the opening of a 
new grocery store in the Westside™s Harmony Village neigh
-borhood, in the minority-led small businesses that are getting 
much-needed capital from the new Entrepreneurs of Color Fund 
and in the map of Detroit™s workforce system that is helping 
us prepare Detroiters for the new jobs coming to the city. 
JPMorgan Chase is bringing its data, expertise and talent to this 
town in so many ways Š assets that are just as important as 
money in boosting our recovery.
The partnerships JPMorgan Chase saw at work in Detroit helped 
give the ˜rm con˜dence to invest so signi˜cantly in our city. 

And because we have this ˜ne company at the table, we now 
have other companies coming to our city looking to contribute 
and invest in Detroit and its residents.
We still have a long way to go. But with great partners like 
JPMorgan Chase, we are creating a turnaround that is bene
-˜ting all Detroiters and can be a model for other large cities 
facing similar challenges. 
3839  39CREATING CAREER-FOCUSED EDUCATION
  by Freeman A. Hrabowski III, President of the University of 
Maryland, Baltimore County
  Too many people are left out of work or are stuck in low-wage, 
low-skill jobs without a path to meaningful employment and the 
chance to get ahead. Among young people, this truly is a national 
tragedy: More than 5 million young Americans, including one in 
˜ve African-American and one in six Latino youths, are neither 
attending school nor working. JPMorgan Chase™s New Skills for 

Youth initiative is an important example of educators and busi
-ness leaders partnering to equip young people with the skills and 
experience to be career ready. 
The social and economic hurdles faced by young people of color and 
those who come from low-income families have been exacerbated 
by the growing crisis of high inner city unemployment and low high 
school graduation rates. With too many young people marginalized, 
economic growth slows, and social challenges increase. The public 
and private sectors must work together to change this. 
Educators need to emphasize both college and career readiness. 
They need to recognize that there is growing demand for technically 
trained, middle-skill workers Š from robotics technicians to licensed 
practical nurses Š and better align what they teach with the talent 
needs of employers. At the same time, business leaders need to 
support the education system as it strives to teach today™s skills and 
help students develop into critical thinkers. 
A bachelor™s degree is as important as ever, and universities must 
do more to support students of all backgrounds who arrive on our 
campuses. However, we need to recognize that not all college and 
career pathways include pursuing a four-year degree immediately, 

and we need to eliminate the stigma attached to alternate paths. 
High-quality, rigorous career and technical education programs 
can connect people to high-skill, well-paying jobs Š and they 
don™t preclude earning a four-year degree down the road. Classes 
dedicated to robotics, medical science, mechanics and coding build 
skills that employers desperately need. They also prepare students 
to land great jobs. 
Recent education reforms are making progress, but we still need 
greater focus on preparing young people, from all income levels, 
with the skills and experiences to be college and career ready. 
The public and private sectors need to forge deeper relation
-ships and make greater investments in developing and expanding 
e˛ective models of career-focused education that are aligned 
with the needs of emerging industries. This is an investment 

not only in growing our economy but also in providing more of 
our young people with a tangible path out of poverty and a real 
chance at economic success. 
COMMITMENT TO OUR VETS 
 
by Stan McChrystal, Retired General, U.S. Army
  
 In early 2011, two employees of JPMorgan Chase came to 

wintry New Haven, Connecticut, to talk about veterans. 
Speci˜cally, they told me that Jamie Dimon felt the bank 
could, and should, do more to help the many veterans 
returning from service Š many who were in Iraq and 
Afghanistan Š take their rightful place in civilian society. 
Since 9/11, the military had enjoyed tremendous support 
from the American people, but seemingly intractable 
problems of reintegration, particularly challenges with 
meaningful employment, haunted an embarrassingly large 

number of former warriors and their families.
I listened with interest and no small amount of cautious 
skepticism. I was aware of countless programs initiated 
with the best of intentions that soon became more talk 
than action and was worried this might be the same. The 

JPMorgan Chase people asked if I thought the bank should 
create a program to help veterans ˜nd employment and if 
the bank did start such a program, would I join the advisory 
council for it. 
I thought for a moment and then responded: ﬁIf Jamie 
is seriously willing to commit the bank to the e˛ort,ﬂ I 
replied, ﬁit™s the right thing to do, and I™m in. If not, there 
are other, far less ambitious ways to o˛er the bank™s help 
for veterans.ﬂ As we talked further, they convinced me that 
Jamie, and the full energy that JPMorgan Chase could bring, 
would be behind the e˛ort.
That was almost ˜ve years ago, and JPMorgan Chase has 
surpassed my every hope and expectation. By committing 
full-time talent and including the personal involvement of 
senior leadership, 
the ˚rm has been the strongest force 
in veterans™ employment in America
. The Veteran Jobs 
Mission program has not only implemented truly cutting-
edge programs inside the bank to recruit, train, mentor 

and develop veterans Š resulting in an increase of more 
than 10,000 veterans within the bank since 2011 Š but the 
program also has demonstrated the power of commitment. 
An impressive number of American businesses have set and 
met employment goals (to date, over 300,000 veterans have 
been hired collectively, with a goal of hiring 1 million) that 
would have been considered unattainable at the start.
4040VI.  
A SAFE, STRONG BANKING INDUSTRY IS ABSOLUTELY 
CRITICAL TO A COUNTRY™S SUCCESS Š BANKS™ ROLES 
HAVE CHANGED, BUT THEY WILL NEVER BE A UTILITY 
For the people of a country to thrive, you 
need a successful economy and markets. For 

an economy to be successful, it is an absolute 

necessity to have a healthy and successful 

banking system. The United States has a 

large, vibrant ˜nancial system, from asset 

managers and private equity sponsors to 

hedge funds, non-banks, venture capital
-
ists, public and private market participants, 

small to large investors and banks. Banks are 
at the core of the system. They educate the 

world about companies and markets, they 

syndicate credit and market risk, they hold 

and move money and assets, and they neces
-
sarily create discipline among borrowers and 

transparency in the market. To do this well, 

America needs all di˛erent kinds of ˜nancial 
institutions and all di˛erent kinds of banks Œ 
large and small. There is a great need for the services of all 

banks, from large global banks to smaller 

regional and community banks. That said, 

our large, global Corporate & Investment 

Bank does things that regional and commu-
nity banks simply cannot do. We o˛er 

unique capabilities to large corporations, 

large investors and governments, including 

federal institutions, states and cities. 
Only large banks can bank large institutions.
Of the 26 million businesses in the United 
States, only 4,000 are public companies. 

While accounting for less than 0.02% of all 

˜rms, these companies represent one-third 
 
of private sector employment and almost 

half of the total $2.3 trillion of business 
capital expenditures. And most are multi
-
nationals doing business in many countries 

around the world. In addition to corpora
-
tions, governments and government insti
-
tutions Œ such as central banks and sover
-eign wealth funds Œ need ˜nancial services. 

The ˜nancial needs of all these institutions 
are extraordinary. We provide many of 

the services they require. For example, we 

essentially maintain checking accounts for 

these institutions in many countries and 

currencies. We provide extensive credit lines 

or raise capital for these clients, often in 

multiple jurisdictions and in multiple curren-
cies. On an average day, JPMorgan Chase 
Does the United States really need large banks?
moves approximately $5 trillion for these 

types of institutions, raises or lends $6 billion 

of capital for these institutions, and buys or 

sells approximately $1.5 trillion of securities 

to serve investors and issuers. We do all this 

e˝ciently and safely for our clients. In addi
-
tion, as a ˜rm, we spend approximately $700 

million a year on research so that we can 

educate investors, institutions and govern
-
ments about economies, markets and compa
-
nies. For countries, we raised $60 billion 

of capital in 2015. We help these nations 

develop their capital markets, get ratings 

from ratings agencies and, in general, expand 

their knowledge. The fact is that almost 

everything we do is because clients want and 

need our various services. 
Put ﬁlargeﬂ in context. 
While we are a large bank, it might surprise 

you to know two facts: (1) The assets of all 

banks in the United States are a much smaller 

part of the country™s economy, relatively, than 

in most other large, developed countries; and 

(2) America™s top ˜ve banks by assets are 

smaller, relatively, to total banking assets in 

America than in most other large, developed 

countries. As shown in the following charts, 

this framework means banks in the United 

States are less consolidated.4141Our size and our diversi˚cation make us stronger.
Our large and diversi˜ed earnings streams 
and good margins create a strong base of 

earnings that can withstand many di˛erent 

crises. Stock analysts have pointed out that 

JPMorgan Chase has among the lowest 

earnings volatility and revenue volatility 

among all banks. This strength is what 
allows us to invest in countries to support 

our clients and to have the staying power to 

survive tough times. We are a port of safety 

in almost any storm.
Finally, our size gives us the ability to make 
large and innovative investments that are 

often needed to create new products and 

services or to improve our e˝ciency. The 
 ultimate bene˜ciary of all this is our clients.
Community banks are critical to the country Š 
large banks provide essential services to them. 
 (I prepared this section initially as an op-ed 
article, but I™d like you to see it in total.)
Not long ago, I read some commentary 
excoriating big banks written by the CEO 

of a regional bank. The grievances weren™t 

new or surprising Œ in the current climate, 

one doesn™t have to look far to ˜nd someone 

attacking large ˜nancial institutions. But I 

recognized this particular bank as a client 

of ours. So I did some digging. It turns out 

that our ˜rms have a relationship that goes 

back many years and spans a broad range of 

services. And it struck me how powerful the 
incentive is, in today™s heated public dialogue, 

to frame issues as a winner-take-all ˜ght 

between opposing interests: big vs. small. 

Main Street vs. Wall Street. It is a simple 

narrative, and while banks of all sizes make 

mistakes, certainly a key lesson of the crisis 

is that mistakes at the largest institutions can 

impact the broader ˜nancial system. 
But, as is often the case, reality tells a deeper 
story, and the U.S. ˜nancial services industry 

does not conform to simple narratives. It is a 

complex ecosystem that depends on diverse 

business models co-existing because there 

is no other way to e˛ectively serve Ameri
-
ca™s vast array of customers and clients. A 

healthy banking system depends on institu
-
tions of all sizes to drive innovation, build 

and support our ˜nancial infrastructure, and 

provide the essential services that support 

the U.S. economy and allow it to thrive. 
In our system, smaller regional and commu
-nity banks play an indispensable role. These 

institutions sit close to the communities 

they serve. Their highest-ranking corporate 

o˝cers live in the same neighborhoods as 

their clients. They are able to forge deep and 

long-standing relationships and bring a keen 

knowledge of the local economy and culture. 

They frequently are able to provide high-

touch and specialized banking services, given 

their unique connection to their communities. 
Total Bank Assets as a % of GDP 
 by Country
1Top 5 Bank Assets as a % of Total Bank Assets 
 by Country
11 Approximate percentages based on 2014 data.
2 Excludes the estimated impact of certain derivatives netting.
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˛˚
˙



˜˚˛˝˙ˆ˜˚˛˝˚˚˛˝
˚˚˛˝
˚˚˛˝
˚˙˛˝ˆ˙˛˝ˆ˙˛˝˜˚˛˚˝˚
˙ˆ˚˛ˇ˘


˜
˜˚˛
˚˝˛˚˚˛
˙˝˛
˙˚˛
ˆ˝˛ˇ˝˛4242Large banks such as JPMorgan Chase also 
have a strong local presence. We are proud 

to have branches and o˝ces all across 

the country and to have the privilege of 

being woven into communities large and 

small. But we respect the fact that for 

some customers, there is no substitute 

for a locally based bank and that in some 

markets, a locally based lender is the best 
 ˜t for the needs of the community. 
Having said that, these very same regional 
and community banks depend on large 
banks such as ours to make their service 

o˛erings possible. First, large banks o˛er 

vital correspondent banking services for 

smaller institutions. These services include 

distributing and collecting physical cash, 

processing checks and clearing international 

payments. JPMorgan Chase alone extends 

such services to 339 small banks and 10 

corporate credit unions across the country. 

Last year, we provided these institutions with 

$4.7 billion in intraday credit to facilitate 

cash management activities and processed 
$7.6 trillion in payments/receivables. 
Large banks also enable community banks to provide traditional mortgages by purchasing 

the mortgages that smaller banks originate, 

selling the loans to the agencies (e.g., Fannie 

Mae) or capital markets and continuing to 

service the borrower. In 2015, JPMorgan 

Chase purchased $10.4 billion in such resi
-
dential loans from 165 banks nationwide.
In addition to these correspondent banking services, large banks deliver mission-critical 

investment banking services. This includes 

helping smaller banks access debt and equity 
capital, supporting them through strategic 

combinations, enabling them to manage 

their securities portfolios, providing valuable 

risk management tools (such as interest rate 

swaps and foreign exchange), creating syndi
-
cated credit facilities that smaller banks™ 

clients can participate in and o˛ering direct 
˜nancing. JPMorgan Chase has raised $16.2 

billion in growth equity capital for smaller 

banks since 2014; advised on strategic 

combinations among regional and commu-
nity banks valued at $52 billion; and, last 
year, provided $5.3 billion in secured repo 

˜nancing, extended $1.4 billion in trading 

line ˜nancing and provided $7 billion in 

other unsecured ˜nancing to hundreds of 
banks nationwide. 
This is a story of symbiosis among our banks rather than a binary choice between big and 

small. Yes, all banks are competitors in the 

marketplace. But marketplace competition 

is not zero-sum. In banking, your compet
-
itor can also be your customer. Large banks 

ultimately would be diminished if regional 

and community banks were weakened, and, 

just as surely, those smaller institutions 

would lose out if America™s large banks were 

hobbled. We require a system that serves 

the needs of all Americans, from customers 

getting their ˜rst mortgage to farmers and 

small business owners to our largest multina-
tional companies.
America faces enough real challenges 
without inventing con˚ict where none 

need exist. Rather, banks of all sizes do 

themselves and their stakeholders better 

service by acknowledging the speci˜c value 

di˛erent types of institutions o˛er. Then we 

all can get on with the business of serving 
our distinctive roles in strengthening the 

economy, our communities and our country. 
Banks cannot be utilities.
Utilities are monopolies; i.e., generally only 

one company is operating in a market. And 

because of that, prices and returns are regu
-
lated. Banks do not have the same relation
-
ship with their clients as most other compa-
nies do. When a customer walks into a store 

and wants to buy an item, the store sells it. 

By contrast, very often a bank needs to turn 

a customer down; for example, in connec
-
tion with a credit card or a loan. Responsible 
lending is good, but irresponsible lending 

is bad for the economy and for the client 

(we clearly experienced this in the Great 

Recession). Banks are more like partners 

with their clients Œ and they are often active 

participants in their clients™ ˜nancial a˛airs. 

They frequently are in the position where 

they have to insist that clients operate with 

discipline Œ by asking for collateral, putting 
4343covenants in place or forcing the sale of 
assets. This does not always create friends, 

but it is critical for appropriate lending and 

the proper functioning of markets. Banks 

have to continuously make judgments on 

risk, and appropriately price for it, and they 

have to do this while competing for a client™s 

business. There is nothing about banking 

that remotely resembles a utility.
America™s ˚nancial system is the ˚nest the world 
has ever seen Š let™s ensure it stays that way.
The position of America™s leading banks 
is like many other U.S. industries Œ they 

are among the global leaders. If we are not 

allowed to compete, we will become less 

diversi˜ed and less e˝cient. I do not want 

any American to look back in 20 years and 

try to ˜gure out how and why America™s 

banks lost the leadership position in ˜nan-
cial services. If not us, it will be someone 
else and likely a Chinese bank. Today, many 

Chinese banks already are larger than we 

are, and they continue to grow rapidly. They 

are ambitious, they are supported by their 

government and they have a competitive 

reason to go global Œ the Chinese banks 
are following and supporting their Chinese 

companies with the ˜nancial services that 
are required to expand abroad. 
Not only are America™s largest banks global 
leaders, but they help set global standards for 

˜nancial markets, companies, and even coun
-
tries and controls (such as anti-money laun
-
dering). Finally, banks bring huge resources 

Œ ˜nancial and knowledge Œ to America™s 

major ˚agship companies and investors, 

thereby helping them maintain their global 

leadership positions.
Why do you say that banks need to be steadfast and always there for their clients Š doesn™t 
 
that always put you in the middle of the storm?
Yes, to an extent. When an economy 
weakens, banks will see it in lower busi
-
ness volumes and higher credit losses. Of 

course, we want to manage this carefully, 

but it is part of the cost of doing business. 

Building a banking business takes decades 

of training bankers, nurturing relation
-
ships, opening branches and developing 

the proper technology. It is not like buying 

or selling a stock. Clients, from consumers 

to countries, expect you to be there in both 

good times and the toughest of times. Banks 

and their services are often the essential 

lifeblood to their clients. Therefore, it is part 

of the cost of doing business to manage through the cycles. 
JPMorgan Chase consistently supports 
consumers, businesses and communities in 

both good times and the toughest of times. In 

2015, the ˜rm provided $22 billion of credit 

to U.S. small businesses, which allowed them 

to develop new products, expand operations 

and hire more workers; $168 billion of credit 

to Commercial and Middle Market clients; 
$233 billion of credit to consumers; more 

than $68 billion of credit or capital raised for 

nonpro˜t and government entities, including 

states, municipalities, hospitals and universi
-
ties; and $1.4 trillion of credit or capital raised 

for corporations. In total, we extended credit 

and raised capital of more than $2 trillion for 

our clients.
Banks were there for their clients, particularly 
when the capital markets were not Š we need this 
to continue.
The public markets, even though they are 
populated with a lot of very bright and 

talented people, are surprisingly ˜ckle. The 

psychology and wisdom of crowds are not 

always rational, and they are very imper
-sonal. People who buy and sell securities 

do not have a moral obligation to provide 

credit to clients. This is when banks™ long-

term relationships and fairly consistent 
4444˜˚˛˝˚˛
˘

˜˙˛˘˘

˜
˘

˘ˆ
†˚˛ˆ’˙’ˇ

˘
˘•
˘
˘˜’
…ˇ˙˛—˚–ˇ˛—’ˇ
⁄⁄⁄⁄⁄⁄˘
⁄
⁄

˜˚˛˝˜˚˙˙˜˚˚˙˜ˆ˚
˜˚ˆ˚
˜˚ˇ˚
˜˚˘˘˜
˜˚˛˚
˜˝˝˙˜˘˙˜˚
˜˚˝˛˜ˆ˘˜˝ˆˇ
˜
˜˚˚˘˜˚˝
˜˚˚˝˜˝˘ˇ
˜˚ˆ
˜˘˘˜


˜
˜
˜˚˛˝˚˛
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˝˘˚ˆ˚˛
˙
˜

˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˙˘˘˘



˙˘

“˚
‘‘‘‘‘‘˘
‘
‘˘˘€ˇ•
˘†ˇ˙–
’˘˘€“˘
˘

˜˚˚˛˝˚˙ˆˇ˝˚
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ

˙









˜

˙˙



˜’˘˘
˘˘
˜


˘New and Renewed Credit and Capital for Our Clients
at December 31
,Assets Entrusted to Us by Our Clients
at December 31
,4545pricing and credit o˛erings are needed the 
most. The chart below shows how banks 

continued to be there for their clients as the 

markets were not. 
Corporations get the vital credit they need 
by issuing securities, including commercial 

paper, or by borrowing from banks. You can 

see in the chart below the dramatic drop in 

the issuance of securities and commercial 
paper once the ˜nancial crisis hit. Commer-cial paper outstanding alone dropped by 

$1 trillion, starving companies in desperate 

need of cash. You can see that bank loans 

outstanding, for the most part, were steady 

and consistent. This means that banks 
continued to renew or roll over credit to their 

clients Œ small, medium and large Œ when it 

was needed the most.
This will be a little bit harder to do in the future because capital, liquidity and 

accounting rules are essentially more procy-
clical than they were in the past. We esti
-
mate that if we were to enter a very di˝cult 

market, such as 2008, our capital needs could 

increase by 10%. Despite the market need for 

credit, banks would be in a position where, 

all things being equal, they would 
need to 
reduce the credit extended to maintain their 

own strong capital positions.
 Quarterly Capital Markets Issuances and U.S. Bank Loans Outstanding 
2007Š2010
($ in trillions)1 Includes high-yield and investment-grade bonds.
2 Includes collateralized loan obligations and excludes mortgage-backed issuances.
3 Includes initial public offerings (IPOs) and secondary market offerings.
$(3.3)090018002700360045004Q103Q102Q101Q104Q093Q092Q091Q094Q083Q082Q081Q084Q073Q072Q071Q07Commercial paper outstanding (right scale)Capital markets issuances (left scale)˜˚Corporate bonds1 ˜˚ABS2 ˜˚Equity3 $2.0 $2.1 $1.9 $1.8 $1.8 $1.7 $1.6 $1.7 $1.5 $1.2 $1.3 $1.1 $1.1 $1.0 $1.1 $1.0Commercial paper outstandingTotal capital markets issuances $4.0 $4.0 $2.3 $1.9 $1.4 $2.0 $0.7 $0.8 $1.2 $1.8 $1.2 $1.1 $1.2 $0.8 $1.3 $1.5U.S. bank loans outstanding (left scale)2000400060008000$7.0$6.0$5.0$4.0
$3.0$2.0$1.0$0.0$0.0$1.0
$2.0$3.04646Most banks actually are trusted by their 
clients, but generically, they are not. This 

dichotomy also is true with politicians, 

lawyers and the media Œ people trust the 

individuals they know, but when it comes 

to whether people trust them as a group, 

they do not. We believe that the only way to 

be restored to a position of trust is to earn 
it every day in every community and with 

every client. 
The reality is that banks, because of the disci
-plined role they sometimes have to play and 

the need to say no in some instances, will not 

always be the best of friends with some of 

their clients. But banks still need to discharge 

that responsibility while continuing to regain 

a position of trust in society. There is no easy, 

simple answer other than:
Ł Maintain steadfast, consistent and trans
-parent behavior wherever they operate.
Ł Communicate honestly, clearly and 

consistently.
Ł Deliver great products and services.
Ł Admitting to mistakes is good, ˜xing 

them is better and learning from them is 
essential. Ł Make it easy for customers to deal with you 

Œ particularly when they have problems.
Ł Work with customers who are struggling Œ 

both individuals and companies.
Ł Focus on the customer and treat all clients 

the way you would want to be treated. 
Ł Be great citizens in the community. 
 
Establish strong relationships with govern
-
ments and civic society.
Ł Treat regulators like full partners Œ and 

accept that you will not always agree. 

When they make a change in regulations, 

even ones you don™t like, accept them and 

move on.
Ł As an industry, make fewer mistakes and 

behave better Œ the bad behavior of one 

individual reverberates and a˛ects the 

entire industry.
Finally, strong regulators and stronger 

standards for banks must ultimately mean 

that banks are meeting more rigorous stan-
dards. Every bank is doing everything in its 

power to meet regulatory standards. It has 

been eight years since the ˜nancial crisis 

and six years since Dodd-Frank. Regulators 

should take more credit for the extraordi
-
nary amount that has been accomplished 
and should state this clearly to the American 

public. This should help improve consumer 

con˜dence in the banking system Œ and 
in the economy in general. Consumer and 

business con˜dence is the secret sauce for a 

healthy economy. It is free, and it would be 

good to sprinkle a bit more of it around. Are you and your regulators thinking more comprehensively and in a forward-looking way to 

play a role in helping to accelerate global growth? 
By any reasonable measure, the ˜nancial 
system is unquestionably stronger, and regu
-
lators deserve a lot of credit for this. But it 

also is true that thousands of rules, regula
-
tions and requirements were made Œ and 

needed to be made Œ quickly. The political 

and regulatory side wanted it done swiftly 

to ensure that events that happened in the 

Great Recession would never happen again. 
But now is the time when we can and should 

look at everything more deliberately and 

assess whether recent reforms have generated 

unintended consequences that merit attention. 
Some people speak of regulation like it is a 
simple, binary tradeo˛ Œ a stronger system 

or slower growth or vice versa. We believe 

that many times you can come up with 

regulations that do both Œ create a stronger 
system and enhance growth. Will banks ever regain a position of trust? How will this be done?
4747There will be a time to comprehensively review, 
coordinate and modify regulations to ensure 
maximum safety, create more e˜ciency and 
accelerate economic growth.
Every major piece of legislation in the United 
States that was large and complex has been 

revisited at some point with the intention of 
making it better. The political time for this 

is not now, but we should do so for banking 

regulations someday. We are not looking 

to rewrite or to start over at all Œ just some 

modi˜cations that make sense. Here are a 

few speci˜c examples: 
Ł Liquidity.
 Regulators could give them
-selves more tools for adjusting liquidity 
to accommodate market needs. This could 

be done with modest changes that could 

actually ameliorate the procyclical nature 
of the current rules and, in my opinion, 

enhance safety and soundness and 
improve the economy.
Ł Mortgages.
 Finishing and simplifying mort
-gage rules around origination, servicing, 

capital requirements and securitizations 
would help create a more active mortgage 

market at a lower cost to customers and, 

again, at no risk to safety and soundness 

if done right. This, too, would be a plus to 

consumers and the economy.
Ł Capital rules. 
Without reducing total 
capital levels, capital rules could be 

modi˜ed to be less procyclical, which 

could serve to both dampen a bubble and 

soften a bust. This alone could boost the 

economy and reduce overall economic 

risk. There are also some rules Œ for 

example, requiring that capital be held 

against a deposit at the Federal Reserve Œ 

that distort the normal functioning of the 

market. These could be eliminated with 

no risk to safety and soundness unless 

you think the Fed is a risky investment. 
Finally, ˜nishing the capital rules for 

banks will remove one additional drag on 

the banks and allow for more consistent 

capital planning. This would also help to 

improve con˜dence in the banks and, by 

extension, investor con˜dence.
Ł Increased coordination among regulators. 
Having ˜ve, six or seven regulators 

involved in every issue does make things 

more complicated, expensive and inef
-
˜cient, not just for banks but for regula
-
tors, too. This slows policymaking and 

rulemaking and is one reason why many 

of the rules still have not been completed. 

One of the lessons we have all learned is 

that policymakers need to move quickly 

in a crisis. While everyone has worked 

hard to be more coordinated, far more 

can be done. 
Ł Be more forward looking. 
This is already 
happening. As banks are catching up on 

regulatory demands, the pace of change, 

while still rapid, is slowing. This sets the 

stage for both banks and regulators to be 

able to devote more resources to increas
-
ingly critical issues, including cyberse
-
curity, digital services, data protection, 

FinTech and emerging risks.
As the ˜nancial system reaches the level of 

strength that regulations require, we hope 

banks can begin to expand slightly more 

rapidly (and, of course, responsibly) Œ both 

geographically and in terms of products and 

services Œ with the support and con˜dence 

of their regulators. This will also foster 

healthy economic growth, which we all so 

desperately want.
4848VII. GOOD PUBLIC POLICY IS CRITICALLY IMPORTANT
Are you worried about bad public policy?
Yes, bad public policy, and I™m not looking 
at this in a partisan way, creates risk for 

the economies of the world and the living 

standards of the people on this planet Œ and, 

therefore, for the future of JPMorgan Chase Œ 

more so than credit or market risks. We have 

many real-life examples that demonstrate 

how essential good public policy is to the 
health and welfare of a country. 
East Germany vs. West Germany.
 After World 
War II, East Germany and West Germany 

were in equal positions, both having been 

devastated by the war. After the war, West 

Germany ˚ourished, creating a vibrant 

and healthy country for its citizens. East 

Germany (and, in fact, most of Eastern 

Europe), operating under di˛erent gover
-nance and policies, was a complete disaster. 

This did not have to be the case. East 

Germany could have been just as successful 

as West Germany. This is a perfect example 

of how important policy is and also of how 
economics is not a zero-sum game. 
Argentina, Venezuela, Cuba, North Korea vs. 
Singapore, South Korea, Mexico. 
These coun-tries also provide us with some pretty strong 
contrasts. The ˜rst four countries mentioned 

above have performed poorly economically. 

The last three mentioned above have done 

rather well in the last several decades. You 

cannot credit this failure or success to the 
existence of great natural resources because, 

on both sides, some had these resources, 

and some did not. It would take too long 

to articulate it fully here, but strong public 

policy Œ ˜scal, monetary, social, etc. Œ made 

all the di˛erence. The countries that did 

not perform well had many reasons to be 

successful, but, they were not. In almost all 

these cases, their government took ine˛ec
-
tive actions in the name of the people. 
Detroit.
 Detroit is an example of failure at the 
city level. In the last 20 years, most American 

cities had a renaissance Œ Detroit did not. 
Detroit was a train wreck in slow motion 

for 20 years. The city had unsustainable 
˜nances, corrupt government and a declining 

population that went from 2 million resi
-
dents to just over 750,000. It is tragic that 

this catastrophe had to happen before 

government started to rectify the situation. 
We have reported that we are making a huge 
investment in Detroit, and we are doing 

this because the leadership Œ the Demo-
cratic mayor and the Republican governor, 

working with business and nonpro˜t orga
-
nizations Œ is taking rational and practical 
action in Detroit to ˜x the city™s problems. 

These leaders talk about strengthening the 
police, improving schools, bringing jobs 

back, creating a˛ordable housing, ˜xing 

streetlights and rehabilitating neighborhoods 
Œ real things that actually matter and will 
help the people of Detroit. They do not couch 

their agenda in sanctimonious ideology. 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
These are examples 
of poor policy at the industry and company 

level. Under government auspices and with 

federal government urging, Fannie and 

Freddie became the largest, most lever
-aged and most speculative vehicles that the 

world had ever seen. And when they ˜nally 

collapsed, they cost the U.S. government 

$189 billion. Their actions were a critical 

part of the failure of the mortgage market, 

which was at the heart of the Great Reces
-
sion. Many people spent time trying to ˜gure 

out who was to blame more Œ the banks and 

mortgage brokers involved or Fannie and 

Freddie. Here is a better course Œ each should 

have acknowledged its mistakes and deter
-mined what could have been done better.
So yes, public policy is critical to a healthy 
and functioning economy. Now I™d like to 

turn my attention to a more forward-looking 

view of some of the potential risks out there 
today that are driven by public policy:
4949Our current inability to work together in 
addressing important, long-term issues.
 We 
have spoken many times about the extraor
-dinarily positive and resilient American 
economy. Today, it is growing stronger, and it 

is far better than you hear in the current polit
-
ical discourse. But we have serious issues that 

we need to address Œ even the United States 

does not have a divine right to success. I won™t 

go into a lot of detail but will list only some 

key concerns: the long-term ˜scal and tax 

issues (driven mostly by healthcare and Social 

Security costs, as well as complex and poorly 

designed corporate and individual taxes), 

immigration, education (especially in inner 

city schools) and the need for good, long-

term infrastructure plans. I am not pointing 

˜ngers at the government in particular for our 

inability to act because it is all of us, as U.S. 

citizens, who need to face these problems. 
I do not believe that these issues will cause a 
crisis in the next ˜ve to 10 years, and, unfor
-tunately, this may lull us into a false sense 

of security. But after 10 years, it will become 

clear that action will need to be taken. The 

problem is not that the U.S. economy won™t 

be able to take care of its citizens Œ it is that 

taking away bene˜ts, creating intergenera
-
tional warfare and scapegoating will make 

for very di˝cult and bad politics. This is a 

tragedy that we can see coming. Early action 

would be relatively painless.
The potential exit of Britain from the European 
Union (Brexit).
 One can reasonably argue that 
Britain is better untethered to the bureau-cratic and sometimes dysfunctional European 

Union. This may be true in the long run, but 

let™s analyze the risks. We mostly know what 

it looks like if Britain stays in the European 

Union Œ e˛ectively, a continuation of a more 

predictable environment. But the range of 

outcomes of a Brexit is large and potentially 

unknown. The best case is that Britain can 

quickly renegotiate hundreds of trade and 

other contracts with countries around the 

world including the European Union. Even 

this scenario will result in years of uncer
-tainty, and this uncertainty will hurt the 

economies of both Britain and the European 

Union. In a bad scenario, and this is not the 

worst-case scenario, trade retaliation against 
Britain by countries in the European Union 

is possible, even though this would not be 

in their own self-interest. Retaliation would 

make things even worse for the British and 

European economies. And it is hard to deter
-mine if the long-run impact would strengthen 

the European Union or cause it to break 

apart. The European Union began with a 

collective resolve to establish a political union 

and peace after centuries of devastating wars 

and to create a common market that would 

result in a better economy and greater pros
-
perity for its citizens. These two goals still 

exist, and they are still worth striving for. 
We need a proper public policy response to 
technology, trade and globalization. Technology 

and globalization are the best things that ever 

happened to mankind, but we need to help 

those left behind. 
Technology is what has 
driven progress for all mankind. Without 
it, we all would be living in tents, hunting 

bu˛alo and hoping to live to age 40. From 

printing, which resulted in the dissemina
-
tion of information, to agriculture and to 

today™s computers and healthcare Œ it™s an 

astounding phenomenon Œ and the next 

100 years will be just as astounding.
The world and most people bene˜t enor
-mously from innovative ideas; however, 
some people, some communities and 

some sectors in our economy do not. As 

we embrace progress, we need to recog
-
nize that technology and globalization can 

impact labor markets negatively, create job 

displacement, and contribute to the pay 

disparity between the skilled and unskilled. 

Political and business leaders have fallen 

short in not only acknowledging these chal
-
lenges but in dealing with them head on. 

We need to support solutions that address 

the displacement of workers and communi
-
ties through better job training, relocation 

support and income assistance. Some have 

suggested that dramatically expanding the 

earned income tax credit (e˛ectively, paying 

people to work) may create a healthy and 

more egalitarian society. Also, we must 

address an education system that fails 

millions of young people who live in poor 

communities throughout the United States. 
5050The answer to these challenges is not to 
hold back progress and the magic of tech
-
nology; the answer is to deal with the facts 

and ensure that public policy and public 

and private enterprise contribute to a 

healthy, functioning and inclusive economy.
At JPMorgan Chase, we are trying to 
contribute to the debate on public policy. 

One new way we are doing this is through 

the development of our JPMorgan Chase 

Institute, which aims to support sounder 

economic and public policy through better 

facts, timely data and thoughtful analysis. 

Our work at the Institute, whether analyzing 

income and consumption volatility, small 

businesses, local spending by consumers or 

the impact of low gas prices, aims to inform 

policymakers, businesses and nonpro˜t 

leaders and help them make smarter deci
-
sions to advance global prosperity.
What works and what doesn™t work.
In my job, I am fortunate to be able to travel 

around the world and to meet presidents, 

prime ministers, chief executive o˝cers, 

nonpro˜t directors and other in˚uential civic 
leaders. All of them want a better future for 

their country and their people. What I have 

learned from them is that while politics is 
hard (in my view, much harder than busi
-
ness), breeding mistrust and misunder
-standing makes the political environment far 

worse. Nearly always, collaboration, rational 

thinking and analysis make the situation 

better. Solutions are not always easy to ˜nd, 

but they almost always are there. 
What doesn™t work: 

Ł Treating every decision like it is binary Œ 
my way or your way. Most decisions are 

not binary, and there are usually better 

answers waiting to be found if you do the 

analysis and involve the right people. 
Ł Drawing straw men or creating scape-
goats. These generally are subtle attempts 

to oversimplify someone™s position in 

order to attack it, resulting in anger, 

misunderstanding and mistrust.Ł Denigrating a whole class of people or 
society. This is always wrong and just 

another form of prejudice. One of the 

greatest men in America™s history, Presi
-
dent Abraham Lincoln, never drew straw 

men, never scapegoated and never deni
-
grated any class of society Œ even though 

he probably had more reason to do so 
than many. In the same breath, some of 

our politicians can extol his virtues 
 
while violating them. Ł Equating perception with reality. This is a 

tough one because you have to deal with 

both perceptions and reality. However, 

perceptions that are real are completely 
di˛erent from perceptions that are false. 

And how you deal with each of them prob
-
ably should di˛er. 
Ł Treating someone™s comments as if 

they were complaints. When someone™s 

response to an issue raised is ﬁhere they 

go complaining again,ﬂ that reaction 

diminishes the point of view and also 
diminishes the person. When a person 

complains, you need to ask the question: 

ﬁAre they right or are they wrong?ﬂ (If you 

don™t like the person™s attitude, that is a 

di˛erent matter.) 
What does work:
Ł Collaborating and compromising. They 
are a necessity in a democracy. Also, you 

can compromise without violating your 

principles, but it is nearly impossible to 

compromise when you turn principles 

into ideology. 
Ł Listening carefully to each other. Make 

an e˛ort to understand when someone 

is right and acknowledge it. Each of us 

should read and listen to great thinkers 

who have an alternative point of view. 
Ł Constantly, openly and thoroughly 

reviewing institutions, programs and 

policies. Analyze what is working and 

what is not working, and then ˜gure out Œ 

together Œ how we can make it better. 
5151I am honored to work at this company and with its outstanding 
people. What they have accomplished during these often di˝cult 

circumstances has been extraordinary. I know that if you could see 

our people up close in action, you would join me in expressing deep 

gratitude to them. I am proud to be their partner. 
IN CLOSING
Jamie Dimon
 Chairman and Chief Executive O˝cer
April 6, 2016
52Creating new tools to manage our 
balance sheet, liquidity and interest 
rate risk
Treasury and the Chief Investment 
O˜ce are central to managing the ˚rm™s balance sheet. Together with 
our lines of business, we achieved a 
tremendous amount in 2015; most notably, we overdelivered on our 
strategic e˛orts to decrease non-
 operating deposits and meaningfully reduce the ˚rm™s GSIB capital sur
-charge from 4.5% to 3.5% Œ with no 
material impact to our ˚rm or our clients and, importantly, securing a 
new grounding point for the ˚rm.
We devoted signi˚cant attention to 
studying our current business mix to 
respond strategically to evolving regu
-latory requirements and to maximize 
shareholder value. We introduced a 
comprehensive ˚rmwide balance 
sheet framework designed to objec
-tively analyze and consider our busi
-ness activities relative to some 20 con
-straints, ranging from liquidity and 
regulatory capital to GSIB and CCAR. 
This framework now is being lever
-aged in strategic review and planning 
sessions across the ˚rm.2015 featured the ˚rst rate hike by the 
Federal Reserve in nearly a decade, an 
event for which we have been prepar
-ing; and, while the future is never cer
-tain, we are increasingly smarter and 
better prepared to manage against 
whatever scenario plays out. We 
expanded our capacity to run interest 
rate scenarios and further industrial-ized our processes and risk engines, 
securing the foundation of our risk 
management practices. In a continuing 
e˛ort to evolve our deposit pricing 
framework, we completed a series of 
granular reviews of our deposit models 
and recalibrated to better capture 
 interest rate sensitivities and potential 
migration outcomes as rates normalize.
In 2015, we implemented our ˚rmwide 
intraday liquidity framework, a pro
-gram that was launched last year. We 
have substantially improved our ability 
to manage real-time liquidity risk and 
reduced the amount of intraday liquid
-ity facilities by nearly $1 trillion. We 
can now, quite literally with the click of 
a button, view, monitor and manage in 
real time cash payments coming in or 
leaving the ˚rm. More broadly, we 
remain compliant with all regulatory 
required and internally measured 
liquidity risk scenarios, with appropri
-ately conservative liquidity bu˛ers.
We are a technology company
Technology is the lifeblood of our 
organization, and it drives the deliv
-ery of the secure products, platforms 
and services our customers and  clients value and trust. We serve 
nearly 40 million digital customers and process $1 trillion in merchant 
transactions annually. Each day, we 
process $5 trillion of payments, as 
well as trade and settle $1.5 trillion of 
securities. We see technology as an 
essential core competency and a key 
di˛erentiator to drive future growth 
in all of our businesses.
As one of the largest, most systemi
-cally important ˚nancial institu-tions in the world, we are not only 
 a benchmark for safety and sound
-ness, we have a responsibility to 
play a leadership role in advancing 
the industry and its business prac-tices. To meet the evolving needs of 
our customers and clients, as well as 
the global ˚nancial system more 
broadly, we are committed to con
-tinually developing new solutions 
while maintaining a robust and 
secure infrastructure.
As the ˚rm™s Chief Operating O˜cer, 
I am responsible for many critical 
functions across the ˚rm, including 
Treasury, the Chief Investment 
O˜ce, Global Technology, Opera
-tions, Corporate Strategy, Global Real 
Estate, Oversight & Control, Compli
-ance, Global Security & Military 
A˛airs and Regulatory A˛airs, 
among others. The Chief Operating 
O˜ce (COO) drives progress on ini
-tiatives that are vital to the ˚rm™s 
long-term success.
Matt Zames
 Investing in Our Future
Creating new tools to manage our 
balance sheet, liquidity and interest 
rate risk
Treasury and the Chief Investment 
O˜ce are central to managing the ˚rm™s balance sheet. Together with 
our lines of business, we achieved a 
tremendous amount in 2015; most notably, we overdelivered on our 
strategic e˛orts to decrease non-
 operating deposits and meaningfully reduce the ˚rm™s GSIB capital sur
-charge from 4.5% to an estimated 
3.5% Œ with no material impact to our ˚rm or our clients and, impor
-tantly, securing a new grounding 
point for the ˚rm.
We devoted signi˚cant attention to 
studying our current business mix to 
respond strategically to evolving regu
-latory requirements and to maximize 
shareholder value. We introduced a 
comprehensive ˚rmwide balance 
sheet framework designed to objec
-tively analyze and consider our busi
-ness activities relative to some 20 con
-straints, ranging from liquidity and 
regulatory capital to GSIB and CCAR. 
This framework now is being lever
-aged in strategic review and planning 
sessions across the ˚rm.2015 featured the ˚rst rate hike by the 
Federal Reserve in nearly a decade, an 
event for which we have been prepar
-ing; and, while the future is never cer
-tain, we are increasingly smarter and 
better prepared to manage against 
whatever scenario plays out. We 
expanded our capacity to run interest 
rate scenarios and further industrial-ized our processes and risk engines, 
securing the foundation of our risk 
management practices. In a continuing 
e˛ort to evolve our deposit pricing 
framework, we completed a series of 
granular reviews of our deposit models 
and recalibrated to better capture 
 interest rate sensitivities and potential 
migration outcomes as rates normalize.
In 2015, we implemented our ˚rmwide 
intraday liquidity framework, a pro
-gram that was launched last year. We 
have substantially improved our ability 
to manage real-time liquidity risk and 
reduced the amount of intraday liquid
-ity facilities by nearly $1 trillion. We 
can now, quite literally with the click of 
a button, view, monitor and manage in 
real time cash payments coming in or 
leaving the ˚rm. More broadly, we 
remain compliant with all regulatory 
required and internally measured 
liquidity risk scenarios, with appropri
-ately conservative liquidity bu˛ers.
We are a technology company
Technology is the lifeblood of our 
organization, and it drives the deliv
-ery of the secure products, platforms 
and services our customers and  clients value and trust. We serve 
nearly 40 million digital customers and process $1 trillion in merchant 
transactions annually. Each day, we 
process $5 trillion of payments, as 
well as trade and settle $1.5 trillion of 
securities. We see technology as an 
essential core competency and a key 
di˛erentiator to drive future growth 
in all of our businesses.
As one of the largest, most systemi
-cally important ˚nancial institu-tions in the world, we are not only 
 a benchmark for safety and sound
-ness, we have a responsibility to 
play a leadership role in advancing 
the industry and its business prac-tices. To meet the evolving needs of 
our customers and clients, as well as 
the global ˚nancial system more 
broadly, we are committed to con
-tinually developing new solutions 
while maintaining a robust and 
secure infrastructure.
As the ˚rm™s Chief Operating O˜cer, 
I am responsible for many critical 
functions across the ˚rm, including 
Treasury, the Chief Investment 
O˜ce, Global Technology, Opera
-tions, Corporate Strategy, Global Real 
Estate, Oversight & Control, Compli
-ance, Global Security & Military 
A˛airs and Regulatory A˛airs, 
among others. The Chief Operating 
O˜ce (COO) drives progress on ini
-tiatives that are vital to the ˚rm™s 
long-term success.
Matt Zames
 53Innovation successes
We 
strive to be at the forefront of 
our industry and invest tremendous 
resources in new technologies. Here 
are a few examples of the impact of 
innovation in our major technology 
investment ar
eas:DIGITAL LEADERSHIP
Digital payments
We are l
eading the future of pay
-ments. Chase QuickPay
® o˛ers conve
-nient and nimble person-to-person 
payment solutions for consumers. 
 In addition, this year, we will launch 
Chase Pay
SM to create a new digital 
 wallet and mobile payment experi
-ence in partnership with many of the 
largest retail merchants in the coun
-try. For corporate clients, J.P. Morgan 
ACCESS
® now provides the ability to 
execute international payments in 
more than 120 currencies any time of 
the day through multiple c
hannels.
Digital platforms
We are in t
he process of rolling out a 
brand new chase.com platform that 
will enable us to increase the pace of 
innovation and deliver simple, person
-alized customer experiences. We con
-tinue to improve our industry-leading 
Chase Mobile® app with new features 
and functionality to allow our custom-ers to bank with us anytime and from 
anywhere. We have continued to en-
hance our award-winning J.P. Morgan 
Markets
® platform to di˛erentiate 
 our Corporate & Investment Bank Œ 
for example, trading volume on the 
 eXecute foreign exchange (FX) trad
-ing app increased by more than 80% 
last year, helping the ˚rm grow its 
share of the electronic FX market.
Digitally enabled branches
Our new Chase ATM
s will be able 
 to perform roughly 90% of teller 
transactions and are being rolled out 
 across our branch network. They will 
include innovations such as cardless 
Last year, I o
utlined our major tech
-nology investment areas in support of 
the ˚rm™s strategy; since then, these 
strategic priorities have become even 
more embedded into our technology 
DNA and are the focus of our invest
-ment spend. In 2015, approximately 
30% of the ˚rm™s more than $9 billion 
technology budget went toward new 
investment. As we continue to drive 
e˜ciency and prioritize innovation, 
we intend to shift even more dollars 
from ﬁrun the bankﬂ operational activi-ties to ﬁchange the bank
ﬂ investments.
Protecting the ˜rm
In the ˚rst eight months of 2015, 
 the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
reported a 270% increase in fraudu-lent wire transfers as a result of 
 targeted business email compromise 
scams. At JPMorgan Chase, we typi
-cally identify over 200 million mali
-cious emails each month. To defend 
against these and other types of 
attacks, we continue to make signi˚
-cant investments in building a world-
class cybersecurity operation. Globally, 
thousands of employees are focused 
on cybersecurity Œ working across the 
˚rm and with many partners to main
-tain our defenses and enhance our 
resilience to threats. We continue to 
uplift standards and controls for our 
third-party providers, as well as for 
systems access across the ˚rm. Three 
global Security Operations Centers 
monitor our systems 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week, in a true ﬁfollow 
the sunﬂ model. We are embracing a 
proactive, intelligence-driven approach 
to detecting and preventing malicious 
activity as early as possible, ideally 
before the ˚rm is even targeted. We 
also are taking a prominent role in the 
industry by leading a set of simulated 
cybersecurity exercises with our peer 
banks and other payment platforms˝Œ 
to ensure that we, and the broader 
industry, are increasingly prepared for 
new cyberattack scenarios.
authentication at an ATM using the 
Chase Mobile app Œ that means more 
transaction ˙exibility and simpler 
customer experiences that work seam
-lessly with our other digital channels.
DATA AND ANALYTICS
Our custo
mers, clients and communi
-ties Œ as well as the ˚rm Œ signi˚cantly 
bene˚t from big data technologies 
and improved data management 
practices across our businesses.
Enabling customers and clients
Last year, in our Custody and Fund 
Services business, we introduced NAV-
Explain, an industry-˚rst solution that 
puts key insights about underlying 
fund activity and asset holdings at the 
˚ngertips of fund accountants. This 
solution reduces errors and expense, 
improves productivity and provides 
 a far superior client experience.
Identifying new business opportunities
Innovative analytics capabilities are 
helping us uncover new business 
opportunities. For example, we are 
analyzing broad sets of publicly avail
-able and proprietary data to better 
predict the ˚nancing needs of our 
 clients. In Commercial Banking, our 
sales teams have begun using a new 
data-driven tool to more e˛ectively 
engage prospective clients Œ we expect 
this tool to identify more than 10,000 
new prospects in the United States.
Expert insights for the public good
Our unique proprietary data, expertise 
and market access position the ˚rm to 
help solve issues in the broader econ
-omy. The JPMorgan Chase Institute 
o˛ers decision makers across the pub
-lic and private sectors access to the 
˚rm™s real-time data and analytics to 
tackle economic problems, from the 
e˛ect of income and consumer spend-ing volatility on individual Americans 
to the impact of local consumer 
trends on neighborhoods.
54DEVELOPER PRODUCTIVITY
Providing the optimal environment 
for our developers to concentrate on 
creating new products and solutions 
is a priority. We are de˚ning best-in-
class development practices for the 
thousands of men and women writ
-ing code at the ˚rm Œ to accelerate 
delivery, improve quality and drive 
e˜ciency. We also have equipped our 
high-performance development envi
-ronments with industry-leading capa-bilities, including continuous integra
-tion, automated deployment and 
 security scanning. The vitality of our 
developer community has never been 
so important to ensuring our future.
How we innovate
We are ˚rmly committed to develop
-ing our 40,000 technologists around 
the world.˝In 2015, our technology 
workforce consumed more than 
 1 million hours of training to further 
advance their technical, management,˝
 leadership and business skills. We rec
-ognize that sustained technology lead
-ership comes from a robust, diverse 
talent pipeline. To build this pipeline, 
we engage extensively with high school 
and college students through on-campus visits, as well as by hosting 
coding and design challenges at our 
sites. In 2015, we selected 650 technol
-ogy analysts to join our two-year pro
-gram from an applicant pool of more 
than 7,000. The program starts with a 
six-week boot camp, with nearly 250 
hours of training, and is augmented 
with 65 additional hours over the next 
two years.
We also partner with some of the 
brightest minds in the industry on 
developing solutions. In 2015, we 
engaged with more than 300 technol
-ogy startups and piloted over 100 
technologies, 50% of which now are 
in production. Many potential solu
-tions will fail, but we recognize the 
value of experimentation and know 
that even if only a handful are suc
-cessful, we can dramatically change 
CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE
Over the last few years, we have built 
an e˜cient private cloud environ
-ment within our data centers to run 
the ˚rm™s diverse portfolio of applica
-tions. Today, approximately 90% of 
new infrastructure demand is hosted 
within our cloud environment Œ 
streamlining support, improving utili
-zation and accelerating delivery. To 
further drive value for our businesses, 
we conducted an initial public cloud 
pilot and identi˚ed several target use 
cases to complement our private 
cloud. One use case addresses busi-ness-driven ˙uctuations in computing 
demand with a virtually limitless sup-ply of infrastructure made available 
when we need it, reducing long-term 
capital investments. To lower storage 
costs, we are evaluating the potential 
to store infrequently accessed data 
securely in the cloud. Our strategic 
vision is to embrace a hybrid cloud 
model in which internal and external 
resources are made available on 
demand. We are partnering with lead
-ing providers to create a world-class 
environment without compromising 
our standards for security.
UNIFIED COMMUNICATIONS
We are bringing the look, feel and 
experience of consumer technology 
into the enterprise environment to 
transform the way our 235,000 
employees work. More than 100,000 
employees now use their personal 
mobile devices to securely access 
business applications, o˛ering them 
the freedom and ˙exibility to be pro
-ductive on the go. In addition, invest
-ments in real-time collaboration tools 
allow teams to communicate seam-lessly across the globe. For example, 
this year, we engaged in more than 
 90 million minutes of video confer-encing across 125,000 video-enabled 
 endpoints Œ making JPMorgan Chase 
one of the largest users of enterprise 
video collaboration in the world.
the way we do business for the better. 
These relationships often develop into 
strategic partnerships, and, where we 
think it makes sense, we are making 
capital investments in these companies 
to drive our mutual success. An exam
-ple of this is our recent investment in a 
new blockchain startup, where we are 
partnering to explore opportunities for 
distributed ledger technology. We are 
developing solutions for multiple block
-chain use cases, including single-name 
credit default swap settlement and 
internal network payments. We are 
founding members of the open source 
Hyperledger Project, collaborating 
across the industry to enhance distrib-uted ledger capabilities globally.
We continue to do business in 
 smarter ways
In 2015, we realized savings by e˛ec
-tively leveraging, streamlining and 
optimizing our platforms, resources 
and real estate assets. Doing business 
in smarter ways often means simplify
-ing the environment so that we can 
focus our attention and spending on 
new investments.
Some of our key initiatives to increase 
e˜ciencies and reduce costs include:Ł Location strategy:˝We are driving 
the co-location of our technology 
professionals into 13 strategic hubs 
to optimize our real estate footprint 
and reduce costs. The hubs are 
adopting cutting-edge, open work
-spaces that resemble Silicon Valley, 
equipped with state-of-the-art tech
-nology to promote collaboration 
and creativity, resulting in our ˚rm 
being rated among the top employ
-ers of choice for technology talent 
in ˚nancial services.
Ł Vendor rationalization:˝We are 
 progressing our preferred vendor 
program across technology Œ last 
year, we reduced the number of 
 vendors we use for core technology 
project services by 40%. 
55Matt Zames  Chief Operating O˜cerand more e˛ective user experience, as 
well as introducing a more agile tech
-nology infrastructure.
In Compliance, we enhanced our sur
-veillance to detect potential employee, 
client or counterparty market miscon
-duct by implementing e-communica
-tions surveillance in seven languages 
across 39 communications channels. 
We also extended our transaction sur
-veillance across all asset classes in our 
Markets businesses. We broadened 
our strategic Anti-Money Laundering 
transaction monitoring platform to 
transactions in cash, checks, wires, 
ACH and prepaid cards across 35 
booking locations globally, enabling us 
to decommission 12 legacy monitoring 
tools and systems.
We will continue to invest in our 
people and our culture
The COO drove the global initiative to 
establish a Culture and Conduct pro-gram to reinforce the ˚rm™s Business 
Principles across all businesses and 
functions. We put it front and center 
on the agenda and met with more 
than 16,000 employees to hear ˚rst
-hand what drives their behavior and 
to better understand how to motivate 
people to do the right thing. We 
implemented a comprehensive gover
-nance structure and reporting that 
will allow us to monitor progress 
against action plans. Our e˛orts are 
reviewed at all levels of the organiza
-tion, up to our Board of Directors™ 
Compensation & Management Devel
-opment Committee, and will incorpo
-rate the development of additional 
metrics, which will re˙ect, over time 
and in aggregate, trends in the state 
of our ˚rm™s culture.
We are deeply focused on recruiting 
top talent and training our next gen
-eration of leaders across the ˚rm. In 
addition to our e˛orts to source 
tomorrow™s technologists, our veter
-ans™ recruitment program continues 
Ł Legacy applications:˝We simpli˚ed 
our technology environment and 
decreased operational risk through our Kill the Tail initiative to reduce 
applications across the ˚rm. In 2015, 
we decommissioned 13% of our 
 legacy applications and expect to 
decrease this population by a total 
 of 25% by the end of 2018. 
Ł Stability:˝In 2015, we continued to 
achieve more resilient and stable 
applications, resulting in a 65% 
reduction of technology production 
incidents over the last two years.
Our control environment remains 
paramount
Our businesses function independently 
but with greater connectivity, transpar
-ency and consistency than ever before. 
The signi˚cant improvements to our 
control environment over the past 
three years have become part of our 
everyday operating model. By the end 
of April, we will have completed work 
on all 19 enterprise-wide programs 
established to tackle our top control 
issues and integrated them into stan-dard business operations. We are work
-ing hard to deliver on milestones to get 
more of our outstanding consent orders 
lifted by our regulators.
The Risk & Control Self-Assessment 
(RCSA) program, a key component of 
the ˚rm™s Operational Risk Manage
-ment Framework, is completing its 
third cycle and has become fundamen-tal to how our businesses identify and 
manage operational risks and assess the 
adequacy of their controls. This year, we 
integrated conduct risk measures into 
the RCSA, taking a disciplined approach 
to how we build and evaluate controls 
around employee conduct. During 2016, 
we will begin to replace the current plat
-form used to support operational risk 
management with a new system called 
FORCE. FORCE will increase opera-tional e˜ciency by driving a simpler 
to bring servicemen and women with 
unique leadership skills and experience 
Œ for example, in cybersecurity Œ to the 
private sector. The more than 10,000 
veterans hired by the ˚rm have made a 
demonstrable impact on our culture. 
Our Business Principles laid the foun
-dation for the ˚rm™s new Leadership 
Edge training program to develop out
-standing leaders and managers. This 
year, senior leaders across the COO 
organization were major participants 
and will be going forward. We will con
-tinue to reinforce a strong sense of per
-sonal accountability and ownership for 
everything we do among all employees 
in all locations and at all levels.
Looking ahead
We are at the forefront of change in the 
industry, and we continue to grow our 
core and strategic capabilities to sustain 
our competitiveness. Our sophisticated 
interest rate and liquidity risk manage-ment frameworks prepare us for a 
range of market scenarios and ongoing 
regulatory changes. Our focus on tech
-nology, be it developing innovative solu
-tions, capitalizing on big data or invest
-ing in cyber defenses, underscores the 
˚rm™s commitment to leadership and 
excellence and to being the most e˛ec
-tive provider of ˚nancial services across 
all categories. We continue to invest in 
our most important asset, our people. 
We look forward to serving the needs of 
the next as well as the current genera
-tion of customers, clients and employ
-ees. We will continue to advance and 
protect the ˚rm™s position as a world-
class ˚nancial institution Œ in a culture 
rooted in both ingenuity and integrity.
56credit card issuer in the United States based on loans outstanding.
When I look back over the last three 
years, the people in CCB have made 
remarkable progress. It felt like only 
a short time ago when we were faced 
with considerable headwinds Œ  several regulatory actions, inconsis
-tent customer experiences across 
Chase and an expense base growing 
faster than revenue. And all this 
 was happening during a period of 
formidable economic headwinds Œ 
an extremely challenged Mortgage 
Banking market and ˙at interest 
rates compressed our net interest income in Consumer Banking.
We worked through that rough eco
-nomic period by relentlessly focus
-ing on three priorities: 1) strengthen-ing our controls, 2) delivering a great 
customer experience and 3) reducing 
expenses. These three priorities have 
become a core part of our DNA and 
how we run the business.
We had to make some very tough 
decisions around simplifying our 
business, reducing the number of 
 people and prioritizing investments 
to focus on our strategy. We had to 
stop doing things we liked and dis
-continue some products that just 
weren™t core to how we serve custom
-ers. And we are very glad we did. 
 We will not lose our intense focus on 
those priorities, but with several key 
milestones behind us, we now can 
accelerate the pace of innovation at 
Chase. We are excited about what™s 
coming in 2016 Œ new product 
launches, digital features, technology 
and innovative marketing investments.
Scale matters
In my nine years at Chase, I™ve never 
been more optimistic about where we are and where we are headed. In 
short, I wouldn™t trade our hand for 
anyone else™s. We have a set of busi
-nesses with leadership positions that would be very di˜cult to replicate. 
In 2015, Chase was #1 in total U.S. 
credit and debit payments volume, 
the #1 wholly owned merchant 
acquirer, the #2 mortgage originator 
and servicer, and the #3 bank auto 
lender. We also grew our deposit 
 volumes at nearly twice the industry 
growth rate. And we continue to 
deepen relationships across Chase.
We also continue to lead the industry 
in digital adoption. Chase.com is the 
#1 most visited banking portal in the United States, with nearly 40 million 
active online customers. Our Chase 
Mobile® app has nearly 23 million active mobile customers, up 20% 
since 2014, the highest mobile 
growth rate among large banks.
In short, scale matters. Scale matters 
to our shareholders because it allows us to use our strong operating lever
-age to invest and grow in good times 
and bad. And scale matters to our 
customers because we can provide 
them with leading products that meet all of their ˚nancial needs at every stage of their lives. But we 
know customers don™t care about scale unless it™s relevant to them.
Consumer & Community Banking
2015 ˜nancial results
Consumer & Community Banking (CCB) had another strong year in 
2015. For the full year, we achieved 
 a return on equity of 18% on net income of $9.8 billion and revenue 
of $43.8 billion.All of our CCB businesses performed 
well. We continued our strategy of 
delivering an outstanding customer 
experience and developing stronger 
relationships with customers. In 
2015, we added approximately 
600,000 households to Chase; and today, we have consumer relation
-ships with nearly 50% of U.S. house
-holds and over 90 million credit, 
debit and prepaid accounts.
In 2015, we also stepped up our 
focus on growing engaged customers 
Œ people who choose Chase as their 
primary bank and have a Chase debit 
or credit card at the top of their wal
-let. In doing so, we grew our CCB 
average deposits 9% to more than 
$530 billion and are #1 in primary bank relationships within our Chase footprint. And we remain the #1 
Gordon Smith
 57Scale does not mean acting like a 
ﬁbig bank.ﬂ Today™s customers expect 
a great customer experience every
-where they do business, and banking 
is no exception. We have been 
intensely focused on delivering an 
outstanding customer experience Œ 
customer by customer across every 
interaction Œ branches, call centers, 
chase.com and mobile banking.
We measure customers™ satisfaction in 
many ways. One key source is J.D. 
Power, where Chase has made signi˚
-cant progress since 2010. Our Credit 
Card business now is #3, up from 
 #5 in 2010, and our score jumped 81 
points over the same time frame. In 
addition, Chase has been recognized 
nationally as having the strongest per
-formance in attracting new customers, 
satisfying and retaining customers, 
and winning a larger share of its cus-tomers™ total retail banking business 
by TNS
 for the third year in a row.
Similarly, our Net Promotor Score 
(NPS), which tracks how many cus
-tomers would refer a friend to Chase 
minus those who would not, has 
increased across most businesses Œ 
most notably in Mortgage Banking 
originations, where NPS has gone up 
by 38 points since 2010. Finally, our 
Chase Mobile app is the #1 rated 
mobile banking app. However, we 
will never declare ﬁvictoryﬂ in provid
-ing a great customer experience. 
There always will be work to do and 
areas where we aren™t getting it totally 
right. But we feel extremely proud of 
the signi˚cant progress we™ve made 
and our upward momentum.
DigitalDigital is a core part of our customer experience. We know digitally cen
-tric customers are happier with Chase and stay with us longer. Since 
2012, nearly 100 million transactions 
that used to be done in branches are 
increasingly migrating to faster and easier digital channels. Of the 3.7 
million new checking accounts we 
acquired in 2015, almost 60% of 
these were for millennial customers, 
who often choose Chase because of 
our digital capabilities. While millen
-nials clearly are a digital-˚rst genera-tion, research shows that approxi
-mately 60% of all consumers rate mobile banking as an important or extremely important factor when 
switching banks. In fact, for new cus
-tomers of Consumer Banking, 65% 
actively use mobile banking after six 
months, up from 53% in 2014.
Today™s ATMs have come a long way 
since they were ˚rst installed in 1969 
Œ they now are another important 
digital option for customers. Nearly 
90% of transactions that historically were performed in branches by a 
teller soon will be possible at our new ATMs. That™s a huge conven-
ience for our customers who want to 
self-serve Œ we have nearly 18,000 
ATMs around the country. Digital 
also is a signi˚cantly less expensive 
way to serve customers Œ it costs 
 us about half as much to serve a 
 digitally centric customer than all other primary relationships. As 
 an example, the cost to deposit a 
check with a teller is about 65 cents, 
whereas a check deposited with mobile 
QuickDeposit
SM costs pennies. And in 
2016, our customers will be able to 
withdraw cash using a PIN from their phone rather than a debit card.We™ve also made it easier than ever 
for customers who prefer electronic 
statements to receive them. Customers 
now can easily access their state-ments online on their desktops, on 
their phones or other mobile devices at their convenience. Today, more 
than 60% of new checking accounts 
2015 Performance Highlights
Key business drivers
$ in billions, except ratios and where otherwise noted; all balances are average
2015YoY
Consumer &
Community Banking
Households (in millions)Active mobile users (in millions)
57.822.8 1% 20%Credit Card
New accounts opened
1 (in millions)Sales volume
1Loans
Net charge-o˜ rate
28.7$496$1262.51%(1%)7%1%(24 bps)Commerce Solutions
Merchant processing volume
$94912%Auto Finance
Loan and lease originations
Loan and lease portfolio
$32$6418%9%Mortgage Banking
Total mortgage originations
Third-party mortgage loans serviced
Loans
Mortgage Banking net charge-o˜s
3$106$715$204$0.336%(9%)11%(41%)Business Banking
DepositsLoans
Loan originations
$101$20$711%6%3%Consumer Banking
DepositsClient investment assets (end of period)
$414$2199%2%1 Excludes Commercial Card
2 Excludes held-for-sale loans
3 Excludes write-o˜s of purchased credit-impaired loans 
bps = basis points 
58In Auto, we™ve seen certain competi
-tors get more aggressive in lending 
to customers with riskier credit, but 
we™ve maintained our discipline by 
focusing on customers with high 
credit scores and responsible loan-to-value ratios.
Our disciplined strategy may result 
in lower revenue growth in the short 
term compared with some of our competitors, but we believe our 
approach builds a more stable busi
-ness for the long term. We want to 
establish sustainable credit for our 
customers in good times and bad and ensure that our company and 
our shareholders are protected from a bubble mentality that may come 
back to haunt us later.
Expense disciplineAlong with credit discipline, we have 
been very disciplined with expenses. 
Since 2012, we™ve made signi˚cant 
progress in reducing our noninterest 
expense by nearly $4 billion. We did 
this by making tough decisions across 
the ˚rm to cut structural expenses.
However, it™s important to distin
-guish what expenses need to be cut 
and which investments can generate 
value for our customers and future 
revenue for our shareholders. There 
are two key areas where we have 
been steadfast in funding: technol
-ogy and marketing. We™ve invested 
to upgrade our systems, making them 
more automated and easier to use for 
customers and employees. And we 
know continued investment in mar
-keting provides proven returns.
For example, a $100 million invest
-ment in Credit Card marketing typi
-cally generates on average ~400,000 
new accounts, ~$3 billion in annual 
customer spend and ~$600 million in outstanding balances. And the same 
investment in Consumer Banking 
marketing will generate on average 
~300,000 new households and ~$2.6 billion in deposits. These invest
-ments not only drive revenue and 
deposits but represent new house-holds that we can deepen relation
-ships with over time. That said, if the 
market turns or we see a change in 
how these investments perform, we 
can pull them back quickly.
Payments
Payments is another signi˚cant area 
of opportunity. We™re unique in the 
market because we are a complete 
payments system with an unmatched 
combination of scale and reach. 
Chase customers make approxi
-mately 36 million credit and debit card payments every day on more 
than 90 million credit, debit and pre
-paid card accounts. Our Commerce 
Solutions business processed almost $1 trillion of payments volume 
 in 2015 alone. And our ChaseNet
SM  proprietary closed-loop network 
allows us to complete the entire  payments transaction between 
 cardholder and merchant. With that 
 combination, we™ve built a world-class 
payments franchise, and it™s become 
a signi˚cant di˛erentiator for us.
Last fall, we announced Chase Pay
SM, our proprietary digital payment solu
-tion that will connect merchants and 
consumers through a simple, secure 
payment experience. It will address 
both the merchant experience and 
consumer-to-business payments.
We also are participating in other 
consumer-to-business payments 
options, including Apple Pay
TM and Samsung Pay
TM, to give our custom
-ers choices in their payments Œ and 
to encourage them to make their 
Chase card their ˚rst choice. In addi
-tion, we issued more than 80 million 
chip-enabled credit and debit cards 
to keep payments safe and secure.
are paperless within 30 days of open
-ing an account, up dramatically from 
roughly 25% two years ago. Many 
customers prefer the convenience, 
and it™s a more e˜cient option for 
the bank. Sending a customer an electronic statement costs about a penny vs. approximately 50 cents for 
a paper one. Even more important, 
we save a lot of trees in the process.
Credit Š the best of times
We are experiencing one of the most 
benign credit environments we have 
ever seen. While low interest rates 
have been a headwind for Consumer 
Banking, low credit losses have been 
a signi˚cant tailwind. Net charge-o˛ 
rates are very low across CCB at 
0.99%. We know it won™t last forever. 
We have seen these cycles turn 
quickly, and we won™t forget the hard-
fought lessons of 2008. We are very 
focused on maintaining our highly 
disciplined approach to credit and 
running a high-quality lending busi-ness that should have relative stability 
throughout the economic cycle.
Nowhere has this been more true than in our Mortgage Banking busi
-ness. We™ve evolved into a higher-
quality, less volatile business with 
fewer products. We continue to 
improve the quality of our servicing 
portfolio both by managing down 
our defaulted units and increasing the quality of our new originations. 
We™ve also continued to simplify by 
eliminating complex products that 
few of our customers were using. 
And we are seeing results. Our net 
charge-o˛ rates in Mortgage Banking 
are down from a high of 4.31% in 2009. And approximately 90% of our 
Mortgage Banking losses from 2008 
to 2015 were from products we no 
longer o˛er today.
59Ł  Consumer relationships with 
almost half of U.S. households
Ł  #1 in primary bank relationships 
in our Chase footprint
Ł  Deposit volume growing at nearly 
twice the industry rate
Ł  #1 most visited banking portal in 
the U.S. Š chase.com
Ł  #1 rated mobile banking app
Ł  #1 credit card issuer in the U.S. 
based on loans outstanding
2015 HIGHLIGHTS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Ł  #1 U.S. co-brand credit card 
issuerŁ  #1 in total U.S. credit and debit 
payments volume
Ł  #1 wholly owned merchant 
acquirer 
Ł  #2 mortgage originator 
 and servicer
Ł  #3 bank auto lender
Partnerships
Over the past year, we announced or 
renewed several signi˚cant partner
-ships. In our Credit Card business, we 
renewed three key co-brand partners 
Œ Amazon, United Airlines and South
-west Airlines. All have been longtime 
partners, and our customers continue 
to highly value these cards.
The economics on most partner 
 relationships in the industry are com-pressing, but they still are signi˚cant 
revenue generators for us and are a 
strong component of our growth. Co-brand new account volumes increased 
almost 40% from 2012 to 2015. In 
Auto Finance, we renewed a core part
-nership with Mazda North American 
Operations, the U.S. sales arm for 
Mazda vehicles, where we have been 
its ˚nance partner since 2008. We 
also began a multi-year relationship 
with Enterprise Car Sales to ˚nance 
consumers purchasing rental-˙eet 
vehicles, as well as other vehicles, 
from more than 130 U.S.-based loca
-tions around the country.
Build, partner or buy
Competition is changing. We not 
 only have to compete with the large 
and formidable competitors we 
always have but also with new market 
entrants both big and small. Large 
technology companies, like Apple and 
Google,
 are getting into the payments 
space, and every day, new companies 
are emerging to compete with subseg-ments of our businesses. Many of 
these disruptors are tapping into an 
exceptional experience or user inter
-face that customers like. Across indus
-tries, whether retail, transportation or 
banking, companies have excelled at 
removing customer pain points with 
simple experiences. The experience 
itself has created loyalty.
Our strategy is to take that customer 
insight to heart and strive to create 
simple, largely digital experiences. 
Last year alone, we introduced sev
-eral innovations. We were one of the 
˚rst U.S. banks to introduce touch 
 ID log-in for customers using the 
Chase Mobile app on their iPhone. 
We posted credit score information 
online for our Slate
® customers and created a mobile app for our popular 
Chase Freedom
® rewards card. We 
began to move customers to a new 
chase.com site, which is easier and 
faster for customers to use, and we 
started using a digital token instead 
of a customer™s account number to 
more securely authorize transactions.
In addition, we explored partner
-ships and have found that many of 
these new companies are excited to 
work with us. Often there is a great 
˚t for both sides Œ we can quickly 
apply their technology to bene˚t our 
customers, and these companies 
strengthen and grow from working 
with Chase. As an example, we 
announced a collaboration with an online business lender to help us cre-ate a new small business solution for 
quick access to working capital. This 
new, entirely digital o˛ering, Chase 
Business Quick Capital
SM, will provide 
real-time approvals for small dollar 
loans. Once approved, our business 
customers will get next-day Œ or, in 
many cases, same-day Œ funding to 
run and grow their businesses. We™ll 
still apply our same strong credit standards but will give our custom
-ers a disruptively easy experience 
and working capital product they 
have been asking for.
We always are evaluating other 
potential partners, and where it 
makes sense to collaborate, white 
label or directly acquire, we will do 
so if we think it gives our customers 
a better experience and makes Chase 
stronger for the future. We can™t get 
complacent for a minute, but with 
our loyal customer base of nearly 
 58 million households and the ability to invest, partner and innovate, we 
will be very hard to truly disrupt.
Conclusion
Across CCB, we feel very well-
 positioned for the future. The CCB 
leadership team and I are so proud to serve our customers and share
-holders and to lead this exceptional 
business. Thank you for your invest
-ment in our company.
Gordon Smith CEO, Consumer & Community Banking 
60The CIB™s business model continues 
to deliver for its clients, demon
-strating its worth and resilience. 
We strengthened our market-
 leading positions across products and geographies, but we know that 
our top rankings cannot be taken 
 for granted and must be continually 
earned through our work and our 
dedication to doing right by our cli
-ents. Our ˚rm™s leadership is due to 
several factors, but, above all, our 
success is a testament to our employ
-ees based in 60 countries and their focus on client service that provide 
the foundation for our success.
2015 accomplishments
We delivered solid results in 2015 
and made progress on multiple 
 priorities. The CIB reported net 
income of $8.1 billion on net reve
-nue of $33.5 billion with a reported 
return on equity (ROE) of 12%. 
Excluding legal expense and busi
-ness simpli˚cation, the CIB earned 
$9.2 billion with an ROE of 14%. 
This re˙ects an increase of 110 
 basis points, compared with 2014, 
on capital of $62 billion.Our strong performance was 
achieved despite external concerns 
over:
Ł Slower emerging markets growth, 
particularly in natural resource-driven economies.
Ł Persistently low global interest 
rates, weakening credit markets 
and liquidity challenges.
Ł A slowdown in China™s gross 
domestic product growth rate  and currency volatility. 
Ł Geopolitical challenges.
Ł The Fed™s long-awaited move 
 to tighten interest rates. 
Our ability to maintain expense 
 discipline, while absorbing 
increased regulatory and control 
costs, was demonstrated by our 
 success this year in achieving a 
reduction of $1.6 billion in expenses 
toward our previously stated 
 $2.8 billion target by 2017. 
Throughout the year, we identi˚ed 
ways to redeploy resources in order 
to maximize shareholder returns. 
For example, we reduced non-
 operating deposits, level 3 assets 
and over-the-counter derivative 
notionals, all while minimizing the 
impact to clients. These actions 
helped to lower the ˚rm™s estimated 
global systemically important bank 
(GSIB) capital surcharge from 
 4.5% to 3.5%. This was a signi˚cant 
undertaking and demonstrated 
 our ability to adapt nimbly to the 
changing regulatory landscape.
Corporate & Investment Bank
With a solid foundation built on 
scale, completeness and the reach of 
a global network, the Corporate & 
Investment Bank (CIB) is well-situated 
to sustain its leadership in 2016.Among the steps we™ve taken to 
secure our position, we have commit
-ted to being at the forefront of the 
technology evolution. We are 
embracing the innovations that will 
raise the level of our client service 
and are identifying ways to increase 
productivity in our own operations.
Our clients Œ major corporations with operations around the world Œ 
turn to J.P. Morgan for the inte
-grated services and ˚nancial capa-bilities of an investment bank that 
can help them implement strategic 
solutions. Whether it™s to raise 
 capital, advise on a merger or acqui
-sition, provide hedging or liquidity 
solutions, or help with payments 
across borders and currencies, 
 the CIB has the complete range of 
 services to ful˚ll client needs.
Daniel Pinto
 The CIB™s business model continues 
to deliver for its clients, demon
-strating its worth and resilience. 
We strengthened our market-
 leading positions across products and geographies, but we know that 
our top rankings cannot be taken 
 for granted and must be continually 
earned through our work and our 
dedication to doing right by our cli
-ents. Our ˚rm™s leadership is due to 
several factors, but, above all, our 
success is a testament to our employ
-ees based in 60 countries and their focus on client service.
2015 accomplishments
We 
delivered solid results in 2015 
and made progress on multiple 
 priorities. The CIB reported net 
income of $8.1 billion on net reve
-nue of $33.5 billion with a reported 
return on equity (ROE) of 12%. 
Excluding legal expense and busi
-ness simpli˚cation, the CIB earned 
$9.2 billion with an ROE of 14%. 
This re˙ects an increase of 110 
 basis points, compared with 2014, 
on capital of $62 billion.Our strong performance was 
achieved despite external concerns 
over:
Ł Slower emerging markets growth, 
particularly in natural resource-driven economies.
Ł Persistently low global interest 
rates, weakening credit markets 
and liquidity challenges.
Ł A slowdown in China™s gross 
domestic product growth rate  and currency volatility. 
Ł Geopolitical challenges.
Ł The Fed™s long-awaited move 
 to tighten interest rates.
 Our ability to maintain expense 
 discipline, while absorbing 
increased regulatory and control 
costs, was demonstrated by our 
 success this year in achieving a 
reduction of $1.6 billion in expenses 
toward our previously stated 
 $2.8 billion target by 2017. 
Throughout the year, we identi˚ed 
ways to redeploy resources in order 
to maximize shareholder returns. 
For example, we reduced non-
 operating deposits, level 3 assets and 
over-the-counter derivative notion
-als, all while minimizing the impact 
to clients. These actions helped to 
lower the ˚rm™s estimated global 
systemically important bank (GSIB) 
capital surcharge from 4.5% to an 
estimated 3.5%. This was a signi˚
-cant undertaking and demonstrated 
our ability to adapt nimbly to the 
changing regulatory landscape.
With a solid foundation built on 
scale, completeness and the reach of 
a global network, the Corporate & 
Investment Bank (CIB) is well-situated 
to sustain its leadership in 2016.Among the steps we™ve taken to 
secure our position, we have commit
-ted to being at the forefront of the 
technology evolution. We are 
embracing the innovations that will 
raise the level of our client service 
and are identifying ways to increase 
productivity in our own operations.
Our clients Œ major corporations with operations around the world Œ 
turn to J.P. Morgan for the inte
-grated services and ˚nancial capa-bilities of an investment bank that 
can help them implement strategic 
solutions. Whether it™s to raise 
 capital, advise on a merger or acqui
-sition, provide hedging or liquidity 
solutions, or help with payments 
across borders and currencies, 
 the CIB has the complete range of 
 services to ful˚ll client needs.
61While making these business adjust-ments, we never lost our client focus. 
Once again, J.P. Morgan ranked #1 
 in Global Investment Banking fees, 
according to Dealogic, with a 7.9% 
market share. In addition, the CIB 
ranked in top-tier positions in 16 out 
of 17 product areas, according to 
Coalition, another industry analytics 
˚rm. For example, Equity Capital 
Markets ranked #1, up from #2 in 
2014. In Fixed Income Markets, 
 Securitization and Foreign Exchange 
also moved up, garnering top-tier 
positions last year. In Equity Markets, 
we are making progress in Cash 
Equities, having gained 90 basis 
points in market share compared 
with 2014. Our consistently high rankings and progress are a result  of the trust our clients place in us year after year.
During 2015, we helped clients raise 
$1.4 trillion of capital. Of that amount, 
$55 billion was for nonpro˚ts and 
government entities, such as state and 
local agencies and institutions.
Technology and innovation are 
embedded in all of our businessesThe CIB accounts for a signi˚cant 
portion of the ˚rm™s more than 
 $9 billion technology budget.
Our clients count on us to deliver 
immediate access to strategic advice, 
markets and solutions using the 
most e˜cient means possible. To 
meet their expectations, we are 
embracing structural market changes 
and developing state-of-the-art elec
-tronic trading capabilities across a broad range of products.
Our technology commitment is 
unwavering and is aimed at decreas
-ing costs, which makes our opera
-tions more e˜cient and improves 
our clients™ experience. Technology 
 is enabling us to shorten client onboarding times, speed transaction 
execution and reduce trading errors. 
Clients are using J.P. Morgan Markets 
to access research, analytics and 
reports on their mobile devices.
In addition, we are embedding tech
-nologists within our product groups and strengthening our partnerships with in-house teams to explore ways 
to broaden our use of newer technol
-ogies, such as distributed ledgers, 
machine learning, big data and cloud 
infrastructure. We are also building 
Financial Technology Innovation 
Centers, as well as launching a resi
-dency program and inviting startup ˚rms to work with us on break
-through, scalable technologies.
Technology already is bene˚ting our 
businesses: In Rates, electronic client 
revenue was up 47% year-over-year; 
in Equities, the gain was 27%. And 
the cost per trade has shrunk between 30% and 50% since 2011, 
depending upon the asset class.
We launched a technology platform 
for chief ˚nancial o˜cers and corpo
-rate treasurers, J.P. Morgan Corporate 
Finance Dashboard, to provide mobile 
access to customizable market infor
-mation and live desk commentary 
through J.P. Morgan Markets. In 
addition, we have introduced a 
 version of J.P. Morgan QuickPay to 
speed electronic payment capabili
-ties for corporate clients.
Treasury Services: An integral 
 contributor to the CIB™s growth
Global multinational companies require an international bank, partic
-ularly as the growth in cross-border trade requires a sophisticated roster of services. J.P. Morgan™s Treasury 
Services business ranks #2 globally and supports about 80% of the global Fortune 500, including the 
world™s top 25 banks.
In all, Treasury Services has about 
14,000 wholesale clients, including 
Commercial Banking™s roster, and 
handles $5 trillion in payments per 
day. Treasury Services also ranks #1 
in global U.S. dollar wire transfers.
The business landscape, fragmented 
by multiple players, creates an 
opportunity for the consolidation 
 of market share as clients look for 
global solutions.
According to consulting ˚rms and our internal analysis, the Treasury 
Services revenue pool is expected to 
grow from $144 billion as of 2014 to around $280 billion by about 2024. 
The cross-border business has grown 13% in the past three years and, 
while we have a strong existing 
 franchise, signi˚cant opportunities 
still remain. As global commerce 
becomes increasingly intercon-nected, multinational clients will 
extend their operations across more 
borders. Our ability to scale our 
 services to their needs for e˜cient 
payment systems, additional hedging 
solutions and foreign exchange 
 products will help drive solid growth 
in our Treasury Services business.
A noteworthy success last year 
 was our rigorous e˛ort to reduce 
non-operating deposits by $75 
 billion out of the CIB™s overall 
 $130 billion reduction.62Treasury Services has a platform that 
is di˜cult to replicate and o˛ers holistic client coverage. Our unique 
capabilities in advisory and account 
structuring position J.P. Morgan 
 well to serve the growing number 
 of global multinationals that have 
complex needs across regions, 
 countries and currencies.
Investing in Custody and Fund 
 Services to build on strong market 
positionThe Custody and Fund Services 
 business provides custody, fund 
accounting and post-trade services. 
The long-term prospects for the busi
-ness are strong, driven by growth 
 in institutional assets under manage-ment, globalization of asset ˙ows, 
desire for higher e˜ciencies and 
innovation across the value chain.
With nearly $20 trillion in assets 
under custody, Custody and Fund 
Services is strategically important to the CIB. According to consulting 
˚rms and our internal analysis, the 
Custody and Fund Services revenue 
pool is expected to grow from $38 
billion as of 2014 to $54 billion by 
about 2020. The business generates 
signi˚cant, sustainable revenue; pro
-duces a through-the-cycle operating margin of more than 25%; and pro-vides about $100 billion in operating deposits, which supports the ˚rm™s 
liquidity and balance sheet positions.
As clients expand their product 
ranges, asset classes and distribution 
channels, we will be able to drive 
future growth through investments 
in high-growth areas, such as 
exchange-traded funds, alternatives 
and derivatives. We will continue to 
build on our world-class capabilities 
in Emerging Markets, which already 
encompasses more than 75 emerging and frontier markets worldwide. 
Additionally, we are focused on 
 driving process automation and  standardization across the operating model while investing in analytical 
tools and capabilities to meet increas-ing demands for data transparency 
and integration across products.
2016 strategies
We are in a competitive business. We 
must be willing to adapt to changing 
environments and not be content to rest on the laurels earned in previous years. We intend to target sectors 
and countries where we see expan
-sion opportunities.
We will continue to invest strategi
-cally in talent to cover key growth 
sectors, such as technology, media and 
telecommunications, and healthcare. 
In addition, we are investing in 
countries, such as Germany, the 
United Kingdom and China, build
-ing a talent base where we see the 
greatest long-term opportunities. 
Another focus will be to e˛ectively 
deploy capital by undertaking a 
comprehensive view of our clients, 
taking into account capital and 
liquidity utilization, pricing terms 
and overall pro˚tability.
Sustaining our strength in Global Investment Banking has enabled us 
to deliver the entire ˚rm. J.P. Morgan 
has distinguished itself with its  clients by integrating our product 
and coverage teams to deliver seam
-less solutions. In just one example, 
the CIB and Commercial Banking have continued to collaborate so that 
midsized ˚rms can bene˚t from the di˛erentiated services o˛ered within the Investment Bank. As a result of 
that collaboration with Commercial Banking, between 2008 and 2014, we 
grew Investment Banking revenue 
from $1 billion to $2 billion, and last 
year, we gained another 10%, gener
-ating $2.2 billion.Merger and acquisition activity, a 
highlight in 2015, is expected to 
remain strong. Despite the challeng
-ing year for Fixed Income, we 
 were able to increase our market 
share by 170 basis points, according 
to Coalition.We intend to strengthen our #1 posi
-tion in Fixed Income by closing the 
few regional and product gaps that 
exist. We™re sometimes asked: ﬁWhy 
not reduce the Fixed Income busi
-ness?ﬂ The answer: The business 
delivers a solid 15% return to share
-holders. Additionally, our ability to 
serve the needs of our Fixed Income 
clients helps ensure a broad-based relationship that earns business across products.
The Equities business was strong in 
2015 despite increased competition. 
According to Coalition, our revenue 
growth of 13.5% last year and 28.4% 
since 2011 exceeded the overall 
 market™s growth in both periods. 
 Over the past ˚ve years, our Equi
-ties business has outperformed the 
#1 competitor in revenue growth, 
according to Coalition. To accelerate 
this progress, we strengthened the 
relationship between the Prime 
 Brokerage and Equities businesses, 
integrating the leadership and its 
o˛erings. Equities also is making a 
great deal of progress on the optimi-zation front by investing in a client 
pro˚tability engine and other ana-lytical tools that improve our ability 
to monitor and utilize the CIB™s 
 balance sheet.63The CIB™s scale, completeness 
 and global network have enabled 
 J.P. Morgan to be our clients™ safe 
haven, whether in times of volatility 
or stability. While this is an impor
-tant and essential role, our culture 
also demands we serve our clients 
with integrity and provide the best 
advice, talent and appropriate portfo
-lio of products. To that end, we 
 discuss our culture openly in various 
forums and regularly ask employees 
for feedback to understand what we 
do well and ways we can do better. 
Thousands of employees have 
 participated in focus groups, and 
 we conduct training to ensure we 
 consistently instill best practices and stay true to our principles in all of 
our dealings.
A forward-looking approach
Looking ahead, we have been invest
-ing in the technology and infra
-structure that will ensure we retain, 
expand and improve on our client 
relationships by being attuned to 
the various ways they want to work 
with us.
Building on our capital strength, the 
CIB is focused on optimizing capital 
across multiple regulatory con-straints in order to deploy our 
resources pro˚tably. We have a 
proven track record of being able to 
execute on capital optimization but 
in ways that carefully consider the 
impact on clients. Long term, the 
approach is to identify ways to maxi
-mize returns while adhering to the risk, liquidity and leverage standards 
governing the CIB.
The CIB has maintained its strength while adjusting to the inevitable market shifts and by remaining true 
to its overriding model. We were 
able to withstand the headwinds of 2015 on the strength of a business model that takes advantage of scale, 
completeness and the reach of a 
global network. Last year™s chal
-lenges Œ consisting of market volatil
-ity, geopolitical events, uncertain 
moves in commodity prices and a 
slowdown in emerging markets, 
among others Œ have carried over 
into 2016.We are con˚dent that our business 
model will continue to be successful in the coming year and beyond. We 
are committed to remaining a global investment bank with a complete 
range of products. And by embracing 
technology, we intend to mine the 
e˜ciencies of digital capabilities while improving the services we can 
provide to clients.
Above all, we know that our leader
-ship is only one way to measure how 
well we serve our clients. As was the 
case last year, our top priority is to 
help our clients achieve their objec
-tives backed by the best products 
and services we can provide. In the 
end, our clients™ success is the true 
measure of ours.
2015 HIGHLIGHTS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Ł Ranked #1 in Global Investment 
Banking fees with a 7.9% market 
share, according to Dealogic, and 
ranked in top-tier positions in 16 out 
of 17 product areas across the CIB, 
according to Coalition.
Ł The CIB has embarked on a major e˜ort to embrace technology in order 
to o˜er clients a broader array of 
trading platforms in which to transact 
with J.P. Morgan.
Ł Raised $1.4 trillion of capital  for clients. Of that amount, 
 $55 billion was on behalf of 
 nonpro˚ts and government 
 entities, such as state and local 
agencies and institutions.Ł The CIB™s leadership and role as 
 a trusted partner to our clients 
helped drive the ˚rm™s total 
merger and acquisition volume 
 to $1.5 trillion.Ł Reduced non-operating deposits, 
level 3 assets and over-the-
 counter derivative notionals, 
which helped reduce our esti
-mated GSIB capital surcharge 
from 4.5% to 3.5%.
Ł The Treasury Services business 
supports approximately 80% of 
the global Fortune 500, includ
-ing the world™s top 25 banks.
Ł Treasury Services handles $5 
trillion in payments per day.
Ł Custody and Fund Services 
has nearly $20 trillion in assets under custody. 
Daniel Pinto CEO, Corporate & Investment Bank
Douglas Petno64addressed signi˚cant changes in our 
industry, we remained focused on our 
clients and worked hard to bring value 
to our relationships. This continues 
 to guide our strategy and how we do 
business, and I™m excited to share our 
2015 results and our plans for 2016.
2015 performance
For the year, Commercial Banking 
(CB) produced strong results, with 
$6.9 billion of revenue, $2.2 billion of 
net income and a return on equity of 
15%. Loan growth across the business 
was robust, ending 2015 with record 
loan balances of $168 billion, up $19 
billion from the prior year. Our Mid
-dle Market business grew loans for 
the sixth consecutive year, and our 
Commercial Real Estate businesses 
continued to deliver record results.
With our disciplined underwriting 
and proven credit model, CB™s credit 
performance remained exceptional 
in 2015, marking the fourth straight 
year of net charge-o˛s less than 10 
basis points. While certain areas of 
the economy are facing challenges, 
such as the energy and commodities 
sectors, CB™s overall loan portfolio 
remains in excellent shape, and we 
feel very well-positioned as we closely 
monitor market conditions.
To set the standard in the industry, we 
continued to enhance our regulatory and 
control capabilities. While we have more 
to do, we are quite proud of the tremen
-dous progress we have made in further 
safeguarding our clients and our busi-ness. Our fortress risk and compliance 
principles serve to guide us every day.
Franchise strength
Being a part of JPMorgan Chase gives 
 us unmatched capabilities to serve our 
clients. No other commercial bank has 
both our strong client franchise and the 
ability to o˛er the number one invest
-ment bank, a leading asset management 
franchise, comprehensive payments 
solutions and an extensive branch net
-work. Bringing these robust services to 
all of our clients, as we did with Shake 
Shack, provides us with unique competi
-tive advantages and the opportunity to 
build deep, enduring relationships.
Our partnership with the Corporate & 
Investment Bank (CIB) is a fantastic 
example of where our broad-based 
capabilities di˛erentiate us with our  clients. With dedicated investment 
banking (IB) coverage, we™ve deepened 
our client relationships by providing 
important strategic advice and capital 
market access. This successful partner
-ship has consistently delivered record 
IB revenue for CB clients, growing 
 to $2.2 billion in 2015. Notably, we 
achieved this even while overall indus
-try IB revenue contracted last year.
Executing our disciplined growth 
strategy
Across CB, we continue to make great 
progress in executing our long-term 
growth strategy. We are building with 
patience and discipline, hiring great 
bankers, picking the best clients and 
selectively expanding our loan portfolios.
Commercial Banking
Danny Meyer™s vision to update the 
classic burger and milk shake stand 
began in 2001 with a humble hot dog 
cart built to raise funds for a public 
park in New York City. In 2009, 
amidst a turbulent market and an 
uncertain economy, Meyer needed a 
partner to help grow Shake Shack, his 
˚ne-casual dining concept. Recogniz-ing their team™s passion, track record 
and management talent, our bankers 
supported CEO Randy Garutti and the 
growing company with a loan at a 
critical time. Marking another impor
-tant milestone, Shake Shack selected 
our ˚rm to lead its successful initial 
public o˛ering on the New York 
Stock Exchange in January 2015. 
Today Meyer, Garutti and the entire 
Shake Shack team are bringing this 
community-gathering experience to 
devoted fans across the globe. We are 
incredibly proud of our client™s suc
-cess and deeply appreciate the trust 
and con˚dence they placed in us.
Building the best commercial bank 
has one principle at its core: standing 
by all of our clients, like Shake Shack, 
and providing unwavering support 
even in di˜cult times. While we have 
65Commercial & Industrial
To bring clients deeper sector exper
-tise and to better manage our risk, 
we™ve expanded our specialized 
industry model. Today, we have 15 
key dedicated industry teams work
-ing with more than 9,000 clients and covering 12,000 prospects. Our clients 
clearly bene˚t from our sector-speci˚c 
knowledge and focused coverage. 
 As a result, we™ve seen meaningful 
gains in market share across these 
important segments.
2015 marked the sixth year of our 
Middle Market expansion strategy. 
Through this e˛ort, we™ve added 
nearly 2,000 clients, and in 2015, we 
generated record revenue of $351 
million across our expansion mar
-kets. In these new regions, we are 
building organically Œ banker by 
banker, client by client Œ essentially 
creating a nice-sized bank from scratch, ending 2015 with nearly $11 
billion of loans and over $8 billion 
 in deposits. Last year, we opened 
new o˜ces in Fresno, California; 
Greenville, South Carolina; Hartford, 
 Connecticut; and Wilmington, 
 Delaware. We expect to further 
expand our footprint in 2016.
Commercial Real Estate
With continued focus and discipline, 
we believe we™re building a commer
-cial real estate business that is di˛er-entiated from our competitors. Our 
franchise consists of three well-
 coordinated businesses: Commercial 
Term Lending, Real Estate Banking 
and Community Development Bank
-ing. Together, our real estate teams 
originated $32 billion in loans in 2015, up 28% from the prior year.
As the industry moves through the 
real estate cycle, we believe we can 
continue to grow our portfolio safely 
by adding high-quality clients in large, 
established markets. In the next three 
years, there will be over $1 trillion of 
commercial real estate maturities that 
will drive future originations. We 
 see real opportunities to capture addi-tional market share in targeted geo
-graphic areas while maintaining our 
credit and pricing discipline.
A real source of pride across our com
-pany is our Community Development 
Banking (CDB) business. In 2015, the 
CDB team ˚nanced nearly 100 proj-ects that created more than 10,000 
units of a˛ordable housing. One in 
particular, the Alice Gri˜th Commu
-nity, located on Candlestick Point in 
San Francisco, started its fourth phase 
of construction that will bring much-
needed a˛ordable housing and ameni-
 ties to the area. The e˛ort not only 
replaces a troubled public housing 
complex but also creates new a˛ord
-able units that will be linked with 
 services, schools and access to jobs.
Investing in our future
While our business model is proven, 
we are in no way standing still. We 
are driving our business forward 
through investments in technology 
and innovation. We see real opportu
-nity to enhance our business proc-esses, improve our customer e
xperi-ence, and increase the speed and 
security of our clients™ transactions.
 Utilization (%) 31% 32% 30% 32% 32%20152014201320122011CB CA
GR: 
8%
CB 
Yo
Y:
 9%
Industr
y2 CA
GR: 11
%$62$74$74$78$85Commercial & Industrial Loan Portfolio Š 
Disciplined C&I Growth
1C&I loans outstanding ($ in billions, EOP)
Commercial Real Estate Loan Portfolio Š 
Executing Prudent Growth Strategy
3CRE loans outstanding ($ in billions, EOP)
1  CB™s C&I grouping is internally de˚ned to include certain client segments (Middle Market, which includes nonpro˚t clients, and Corporate Client Banking) and will not align with regulatory de˚nitions.
2  Industry data from FRB H.8 Assets and Liabilities of Commercial Banks in the United States Š Commercial and industrial loans; includes all commercial banks, not seasonally adjusted.
3  CB™s Commercial Real Estate (CRE) grouping is internally de˚ned to include certain client segments (REB, CTL, CDB) and will not align with regulatory de˚nitions.
4  Industry data from FRB H.8 Assets and Liabilities of Commercial Banks in the United States Š Real estate loans: Commercial real estate loans; includes all commercial banks, not seasonally adjusted.
5  Prior years™ originations have been revised to conform to current presentation.
CAGR = Compound annual growth rate       YoY = Year-over-year       EOP = End of period
20152014201320122011 Originations ($B)5 $15 $22 $24 $25 $32˜˚Commercial Term Lending (CTL)˜˚Real Estate Banking (REB)˜˚Community Development Banking (CDB)CB CA
GR: 
14
%CB 
Yo
Y:
 18
%Indust
ry
4 CA
GR: 
6%
$50$55$63$71$8366Looking forward, I™m incredibly opti
-mistic about the future of Commer-cial Banking. We are maintaining our 
long-term focus and making the 
right strategic investments to build 
upon our enduring business. I™m 
con˚dent our team will seize the opportunities in front of us and  continue to deliver for our clients 
and shareholders.
Ł $469 million in Card Services 
 revenue
3 Ł $2.6 billion in Treasury Services 
revenue 
 Progress in key growth areas
Ł Middle Market expansion Š 
Record revenue of $351 million; 
46% CAGR
5 since 2010
Ł Investment banking Š Record 
gross revenue of $2.2 billion; 
10% CAGR
5 since 2010
 Performance highlights
Ł Delivered revenue of $6.9 billion
Ł Grew end-of-period loans 13%; 
22 consecutive quarters of 
 loan growth
Ł Generated return on equity of 15% 
on $14 billion of allocated capitalŁ Continued superior credit quality 
Š net charge-o˜ ratio of 0.01%
 Leadership positions
Ł #1 U.S. multifamily lender
1Ł #1 Customer Satisfaction, 
CFO Magazine Commercial Banking 
Survey, 2015
Ł Top 3 in overall Middle Market, 
large Middle Market and Asset 
Based Lending bookrunner
2Ł Recognized in 2015 by Greenwich 
Associates as a Best Brand for 
Middle Market Banking overall and 
in loans or lines of credit, cash 
management, trade ˚nance and 
investment banking
 Business segment highlights
Ł Middle Market Banking Š Added 
more than 600 new clients
Ł Corporate Client Banking Š Record 
gross investment banking revenue
3Ł Commercial Term Lending Š Record 
originations of over $19 billion
Ł Real Estate Banking Š Completed 
its best year ever with record 
 originations over $11 billion 
Ł Community Development Banking 
Š Originated over $1 billion in 
new construction loans, building 
more than 10,000 units of a˜ord
-able housing in over 70 cities 
 Firmwide contribution
Ł Commercial Banking clients 
accounted for 36% of total North 
American investment banking fees
4Ł Over $120 billion in assets under 
management from Commercial 
Banking clients, generating more 
than $445 million in Investment 
Management revenue
Ł International banking Š Revenue
6 of $288 million; 16% CAGR
5 since 
20102015 HIGHLIGHTS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Douglas Petno 
 CEO, Commercial Banking
One exciting example is the work 
we™re doing alongside Consumer & 
Community Banking to upgrade our digital and online platforms. Our 
enhanced capabilities will expand 
functionality and allow clients to execute transactions more quickly 
and easily. In addition, we recently 
partnered with the CIB to launch a 
new corporate QuickPay capability, 
which will help our clients migrate 
business-to-business payments from 
expensive paper checks to simple 
email transactions.
Lastly, with expanded data and ana
-lytical capabilities, we are focusing on 
transforming information into intel
-ligence and insights to help us man-age risk and shape product develop
-ment. We™ve also been developing 
analytical tools to help our bankers 
better identify and target new clients 
in markets across the United States.
Looking forward
Our business takes great pride in the 
outstanding clients we serve, and we 
are grateful every day for the con˚
-dence they place in us. I want to 
thank our extremely talented team 
for making that con˚dence possible 
and building true partnerships with our clients. Our success depends on 
our people, and your Commercial 
Banking team shows unwavering 
dedication to the clients and commu-nities they serve.
Net charge-o˜s
1  Peer averages include CB-equivalent segments or wholesale portfolios at BAC, CMA, FITB, 
 KEY, PNC, USB, WFC.
2  Through-the-cycle (TTC), 2008Š2015 average.
bps = basis points
20152014201320122011201020092008Peers 1.35% 2.23% 2.00% 0.75% 0.33% 0.11% 0.08% 0.15%CB 0.35% 1.02% 0.94% 0.18% 0.03% 0.03% 0.00% 0.01% ˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˜˚˛Commercial Banking    ˚˛Peer average1TTC average2CB: 32 bpsCB target: < 50 bps1 SNL Financial based on Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation data as of 3Q 2015
2 Thomson Reuters as of year-end 2015
3 Investment banking and Card Services 
revenue represents gross revenue 
 generated by CB clients
4 Calculated based on gross domestic 
 investment banking revenue for syndicated 
and leveraged ˚nance, M&A, equity 
 underwriting and bond underwriting
5 Compound annual growth rate
6 Overseas revenue from U.S. multinational 
clients
67with the ˜rm for at least 15 years, 
including nearly 1,000 who have 

been with the ˜rm for 25 years or 

more. We also have had tremendous 

consistency among our top senior Success as an asset manager begins with two characteristics: longevity 

and consistency. Clients want to 

know that you are committed to the 

business for the long term, and 
 
they expect a proven track record 
 
for outperformance.
At J.P. Morgan Asset Management, we 
have been building a client-˜rst, ˜du
-
ciary culture for more than 180 years, 

working with an increasingly diverse 

group of institutions and individuals 

in more than 130 countries to help 

them manage their money.
Our longevity has helped us earn a level of client trust and a depth of 

investment experience and expertise 

that are di˚cult to replicate. Our 
 advisors have stood side by side with 

clients during their most promising 

and most trying times. That™s why the 

relationships we have built endure. 
 In fact, in 2016, we have 260 families 
 celebrating their 75th or greater anni-
versary of working with us.
In addition to long-standing clients, 
we have many long-tenured employ
-
ees: More than 3,300 of our Asset 

Management colleagues have been 
portfolio management talent, with a 
retention rate greater than 95%.These portfolio managers have 
 managed through market peaks and 

valleys Œ and all the volatility that 

comes in between. They understand 

what it means to invest for the long 

term and are able to look past market 

noise to make smart investment 
 
decisions that are grounded in deep 
research and local insights and that 

generate alpha for our clients.
Superior investment performance 
driving strong ˜nancial results
A global team with a proven track record 
and commitment to innovation
Our more than 600 portfolio manag
-ers work closely with our 250 
research analysts and 30 market strat
-egists in Global Investment Manage
-
ment (GIM) to form the foundation of 

our investments platform. Each of 

them wakes up every day thinking 
Asset Management
Mary Callahan Erdoes
 % of 2015 AUM Over Peer Median
1 (net of fees)
1 For footnoted information, refer to slide 25 in the 2016 Asset Management Investor Day presentation, which is 
 available on JPMorgan Chase & Co.™s website at https://www.jpmorganchase.com/corporate/investor-relations/
 event-calendar.htm, under the heading JPMorgan Chase 2016 Investor Day, Asset Management, and on Form 8-K 
 as furnished to the SEC on February 24, 2016, which is available on the SEC™s website at www.sec.gov.
82%81%
87%78%      68%
77%72%94%
84%
78%80%84%
82%81%
87%78%      68%
77%72%94%
84%
78%80%84%
3-Year
5-Year
10-Year
Equity
Fixed Income
Multi-Asset Solutions
Total
1Data as of 12/31/15. Percentage outperformance vs. benchmark based on rolling 5-year monthly periods going back 10 years (or since fund inception in 2006 for SmartRetirement 2030). All excess returns 
calculated vs. primary prospectus benchmarks. Category percentile ranks are calculated vs. respective Morningstar categories. Institutional share classes used for Disciplined Equity and SmartRetirement 2030. 
 Select share class used for Core Bond. All performance is net of fees. 
For additional important information, please refer to the Investor Day presentation™s notes appendix beginning on slide 23.
Disciplined Equity Fund
10-year average alpha 40 bps (11th percentile) 
Core Bond Fund
10-year average alpha 27 bps (28th percentile) 
SmartRetirement 2030 Fund
Average alpha 83 bps since inception (1st percentile) 
2010Š2015 rolling 5-year periods 
2010Š2015 rolling 5-year periods 
2011Š2015 rolling 5-year periods 
Outperformed benchmark 
97%
 of the timeOutperformed benchmark 
98%
 of the timeOutperformed benchmark 
100% of the time Investment Process Has Led to Strong Results vs. Benchmark and Peers
68about how to capitalize on market 
opportunities for our clients Œ a group 
that includes 60% of the world™s larg
-est pension funds, sovereign wealth 
funds and central banks.
At the end of 2015, 84% of our 
10-year, long-term mutual fund assets 
under management (AUM) ranked in 
the top two quartiles. That collective 
performance is complemented by 
equally strong asset class performance 
in Equity (87%), Fixed Income (77%) 
and Multi-Asset Solutions (84%), 
resulting in a record 231 of our mutual 
funds earning a four- or ˚ve-star rat
-ing and positive client asset ˙ows 
every year since 2004.
In addition to our existing suite of 
mutual funds, we remain focused on 
product innovation. In 2015, we intro
-duced 40 new funds. At the same 
time, we closed down or merged 37 to 
help ensure that we are o˛ering an 
optimized portfolio of products to our 
clients and that they are bene˚ting 
from our best performance.
Strong ˜nancial performance
Our consistently strong investment 
performance is one of the primary 
reasons we have been able to con
-tinue to produce strong ˚nancial 
results for shareholders. In 2015, 
Asset Management generated 
 record revenue of $12.1 billion in 
 a challenging environment. 
It also is the reason we have been 
able to grow our AUM and client 
assets consistently. Since 2010, our 
assets under management have 
increased by an annual rate of 6% to 
$1.7 trillion, and our client assets have 
grown 5% annually to $2.4 trillion.The credit side of our business con-tinues to be an important driver of 
our growth, with both loan balances 
(excluding mortgages) and mortgage 
balances reaching record levels of 
$84 billion and $27 billion, respec
-tively, in 2015.
Investing in talent and technology
Talent and technology continue to be 
at the center of our success, both 
today and in the future. We need to 
have the best people on the ground 
and ready to work with clients 
 wherever they need our solutions 
and expertise. And those people need 
to be armed with technology tools 
that enable them to serve clients 
 e˜ciently and e˛ectively.
Training top advisors
As a business, we are constantly edu
-cating our advisors to ensure that 
they are at the forefront of industry 
trends and important compliance 
 and controls issues. Last year, over 
850,000 hours of training were com
-pleted across more than 750 Asset 
Management programs. This compre
-hensive curriculum covers topics rang
-ing from markets and economy to 
product innovation to understanding 
cybersecurity to regulatory changes 
and additional advisory skills.
Improving the client experience
Technology is playing a critical role in 
improving the client experience. For 
example, Global Wealth Management 
(GWM) is developing a digital strat
-egy that will enable clients to engage 
with us how and when they want, 
using the channels they want. Our 
goal is to complement the advice and 
solutions our people o˛er with tools 
for clients that want to interact or 
consume our thought leadership in 
new ways.
Increasing e˚ciency
Technology also enables us to be 
more e˜cient across our business, 
69 Business highlights
Ł Fiduciary mindset ingrained since 
mid-1800s
Ł Positive client asset ˛ows every 
year since 2004
Ł $2.4 trillion in client assets
Ł Record revenue of $12.1 billion
Ł Record loan balances of $84 billion
Ł Record mortgage balances of 
 $27 billionŁ #1 cumulative long-term active 
mutual fund ˛ows (2010Š2015)
Ł  #3 cumulative long-term active + 
 passive mutual fund/ETF ˛ows
 (2010Š2015)
Ł Retention rate of over 95% for top
 senior portfolio management talent
Ł 250 research analysts, 30+ market 
 strategists, 5,000+ annual company 
visitsŁ #2 global money market fund
2015 HIGHLIGHTS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 Leadership positions
Ł #1 Institutional Money Market 
Fund Manager Worldwide 
 (iMoneyNet
, September 2015)Ł #1 Private Bank in the World 
(Global Finance
, October 2015)
Ł #1 Private Bank Overall in 
 North America (
Euromoney
,  February 2016)
Ł #1 Private Bank Overall in 
 Latin America (Euromoney
,  February 2016)
Ł #1 U.S. Private Equity Money 
 Manager (Pensions & Investments
, May 2015)
Ł Top Pan-European Fund 
 Management Firm (Thomson 
Reuters Extel, June 2015)
Ł Best Asset Management Company 
for Asia (
The Asset
, May 2015)
Ł #2 Hedge Fund Manager (
Absolute Return
, September 2015)from sales support to controls. In 
GIM, we continue to enhance our 
application toolset for our sales 
teams, which helps our advisors 
access information and materials 
 on our entire product range, 
 investment capabilities and market 
insights and more quickly respond 
to client requests. On the controls 
side, we continue to introduce new 
technology tools that automate 
 previously manual processes, such 
as our client onboarding processes, 
which creates a more seamless 
 client experience and improves the 
integrity of our data and how we 
capture the information.
Maximizing analytics
Big data is one of the tools that is dra-matically improving our analytics. 
Using big data and our innovative 
visualization tools, our portfolio 
 managers can take historical data and 
combine it with predictive analytics 
 to inform how to model their next 
moves. Big data also helps us identify 
areas where we can collaborate across 
the ˚rm to serve clients that would 
bene˚t from Asset Management™s 
o˛erings and vice versa.
Value of being part of JPMorgan Chase
The ability to partner across the broader 235,000-person JPMorgan 
Chase global franchise is one of our 
business™s truly unique characteris
-tics. It gives us the opportunity to 
help clients with more of their  ˚nancial needs and enables us to bene˚t from a world-class global 
platform and infrastructure.
Working together across businesses
Asset Management is uniquely posi-tioned as a hub that connects the dif-ferent businesses of JPMorgan Chase. 
Consumer & Community Banking 
intersects with GWM on credit cards, 
banking and mortgages. GWM pro
-vides the solutions for Chase Wealth 
Management™s investments o˛ering. 
And the Corporate & Investment 
Bank works with both GIM and 
GWM on custody services, as well as 
when clients have transition events 
and need cash management or 
 individual wealth management.
Bene˜ting from shared infrastructure
The JPMorgan Chase platform o˛ers 
a signi˚cant competitive advantage 
for us. We are able to leverage many 
core infrastructure capabilities Œ from cybersecurity to digital capabil-ities to shared real estate Œ rather than having to build our own from 
scratch. Consider this: Forty percent 
of our GWM clients also use Chase retail branches on a monthly basis. 
We both bene˚t from and contribute 
to the strength of the JPMorgan 
Chase brand.Well-positioned for the future
We are proud of the performance 
 we have delivered to our clients and 
shareholders and are excited about 
the opportunities that are in front of us. And we know that if we remain 
focused on doing ˚rst-class business 
in a ˚rst-class way and continue 
 to deliver strong investment perfor
-mance and product innovation, 
 supported by robust controls, our 
success will follow.
Mary Callahan ErdoesCEO, Asset Management
70Corporate Responsibility
CR R26 FINALPeter ScherPeter Scher 
 Head of Corporate ResponsibilityIn today™s economy, too many people 
Œ particularly too many young 
 people Œ are being left behind. More 
than 5 million young Americans 
 are out of school and out of work, 
including more than one in ˚ve 
young black adults. Reliable path
-ways to the middle class have dis
-solved. Lower-income families, 
already struggling to make ends 
meet, are falling even further behind.
This is not sustainable. Creating 
more opportunity for more people 
to participate in and share the rewards of economic growth is a 
moral and an economic imperative.
But government cannot solve this 
challenge Œ certainly not on its own. 
The private sector needs to step up 
and be part of the solution.JPMorgan Chase & Co. is leveraging 
the assets of our ˚rm Œ our people, 
expertise and technology Œ to help 
address these trends. Each year, we 
deploy more than $200 million in 
philanthropic capital toward pro
-grams aimed at expanding access 
 to opportunity and advancing eco
-nomic mobility around the world.
We are applying the same rigor and 
analysis to these e˛orts as we do to 
other aspects of our business. Unlike 
traditional models of corporate  philanthropy, our strategic invest
-ments are driven by robust data and 
research. We are supporting innova
-tive research from our proprietary 
data on the ˚nances of nearly 50  million U.S. households to real-time 
labor market dynamics in countries 
throughout Europe and Asia.
Putting our ˜rm™s capabilities 
 to work
Our e˛orts are focused on areas 
where we can best put our ˚rm™s 
capabilities to work and where we 
can most e˛ectively drive change. 
Millions of jobs in the United States and Europe are being created that require a high school degree but not 
a four-year college degree. Through 
our New Skills at Work initiative, 
 we are connecting job seekers to 
 tangible opportunities by helping 
them gain the right skills for today™s 
high-quality jobs. We are expanding 
on this work with an ambitious 
 new program, New Skills for Youth, 
to arm young people Œ particularly 
those most at risk of winding up  out of school, unemployed or stuck in 
low-wage jobs Œ with the skills and 
training needed to get on the road to a well-paying, long-term career.
Through Small Business Forward, 
we are opening the doors that have 
too often been shut to minority and 
community-based small business 
owners by creating programs and 
investments that provide the capital 
and support these entrepreneurs 
need in order to succeed. Through 
the JPMorgan Chase Institute and 
the Financial Solutions Lab, we are 
applying our unrivaled data and 
insights into consumers™ ˚nances and 
deep technological expertise to help 
low- and moderate-income house-holds become more ˚nancially secure. 
The Global Cities Initiative continues 
to help cities around the world gener
-ate the economic growth that will fuel 
greater opportunity. And through 
Invested in Detroit, we are bringing 
all these pieces together to support 
and accelerate the turnaround of one 
of America™s iconic cities.
All of these e˛orts are driven by the 
conviction that creating more widely shared prosperity Œ and giving more people the opportunity to move up 
the economic ladder Œ is not only good for our communities, it™s good 
for our company. We are very proud 
of what we have accomplished in 
2015 and look forward to continuing 
and expanding this important work 
in the year ahead.
71Investing $100 million in 
 Detroit™s future
JPMorgan Chase™s roots in Detroit date back 
 to an early and successful public-private partner
-ship: the creation of the National Bank of 
Detroit in the 1930s as part of the government™s 
plan to restart the nation™s banking system. 
Building on our record of commitment to the 
city Š and once again collaborating with the 
public, nonpro˚t and private sectors Š we are 
in the second year of our $100 million, ˚ve-
year program to accelerate Detroit™s recovery:
Ł Financed more than $35 million in aggregate 
loans to ˚nance housing and mixed-use real 
estate projects and to help small businesses 
in the city expand and create new jobs 
through the $50 million in two new funds 
we seeded with our community development 
lending partners. 
Ł Provided critical ˚nancial support to 
 the Detroit Land Bank as it expanded its 
 capacity to address blight in the city™s 
neighborhoods.Ł Developed ˚rst-of-its-kind research that pro
-vides a comprehensive picture of Detroit™s 
workforce system Š the demographics and 
skills of residents, labor market data on job 
opportunities in the city and the existing 
infrastructure of training providers Š equip
-ping the city™s workforce leaders with critical 
insights to inform their new vision and strat
-egy for Detroit™s businesses and workers. 
Ł Grew Focus: HOPE™s nationally recognized 
training program to prepare more than 250 
Detroit residents for jobs in manufacturing 
and information technology over four years.
Ł Expanded access to capital for Detroit™s 
minority-owned small businesses by creat
-ing the $6.5 million Entrepreneurs of Color 
Fund along with the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. 
Managed by the Detroit Development Fund, 
the fund will provide loans and technical 
assistance, with a unique focus on the small 
contractors that are critical to meeting the 
demand for home renovation in the city.
Ł Boosted the growth of 10 Detroit-area start-
ups to stimulate economic development and 
job growth through the $2.7 million Innova
-tion Fund launched by JPMorgan Chase and 
Macomb Community College in 2014.
Ł Sent 36 JPMorgan Chase employees from 
around the world to work intensively with 
11 Detroit nonpro˚ts to help them solve 
speci˚c operational challenges and plan for 
future sustainability since 2014.
New Skills at Work
While unemployment rates are falling in many 
communities around the world, they remain 
stubbornly high among young people, people 
of color and those with multiple barriers to 
employment. The reasons for this are complex 
and so are the solutions. Our $250 million 
New Skills at Work initiative supports data-
driven approaches to creating pathways to 
middle-skill jobs, helping employers who are 
struggling to ˚ll openings and job seekers 
looking for the education and training opportu
-nities needed in the 21st century economy. 
The data-driven approach to this challenge is 
compelling because it is achievable. In 2015, 
we released reports analyzing labor market 
data and trends in the United Kingdom, France, 
Spain, Germany and in seven U.S. cities. These 
reports provide the intelligence that employers, 
training programs, policymakers and job seekers 
need in order to assess supply and demand 
accurately and to create workforce programs 
that develop a pipeline of skilled talent. In 
 addition, we approved our ˚rst program-
related investment, a $5 million, 10-year 
 low-interest loan to Vital Healthcare Capital to 
˚nance healthcare services and quality front-
line healthcare jobs in low-income communi
-ties in the United States.In early 2016, we announced New Skills for 
Youth, a $75 million global commitment to 
improve career readiness for young people by 
investing in career readiness programs that 
align with the needs of local industries.By fostering e˜ective partnerships, utilizing 
data to drive better outcomes and providing 
workers with the skills needed to land middle-
skill jobs connected to career pathways, 
 we are supporting some of the most powerful 
strategies available to expand opportunity.
JPMorgan Chase Institute
In 2015, we launched the JPMorgan Chase 
Institute, a global think tank dedicated to 
 delivering data-rich analyses for the public 
good. The Institute utilizes our proprietary 
data, augmented by ˚rmwide expertise and 
market access, to provide insights on the 
global economy and o˜er innovative analyses 
to advance economic prosperity.
The Institute released three reports in 
 2015 that shed new light on the behavior 
 of U.S. consumers:
Ł  The inaugural report analyzed anonymized 
transaction-level consumer data, focusing 
on ˛uctuations in income and consumption. 
The Institute™s study revealed that while 
 U.S. households across the income spectrum 
experience ˚nancial volatility, most lack an 
appropriate ˚nancial bu˜er to weather 
these shocks.Ł The Institute then analyzed consumer 
behavior in response to the dramatic decline 
in gas prices. Although prior research 
 suggested American consumers saved more 
than half of their additional discretionary 
income resulting from the gas price 
decrease, the Institute research revealed 
that, in reality, consumers spent roughly 
80% of this extra income, primarily on 
goods and services.
Ł In December, the Institute o˜ered unprec
-edented insight into consumer commercial 
spending within local communities, enabling 
researchers to identify spending patterns by 
consumer age, income and residence or by 
the size and type of merchant.
Harnessing the unique assets of the ˚rm and 
the power of big data, the Institute is explain
-ing the global economy in a way that provides 
decision makers with the necessary informa
-tion to frame and address critical issues.
722015 HIGHLIGHTS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
 Developing local economies and 
communities
Ł Provided $3.1 billion to low- and 
moderate-income communities 
through community development 
lending and equity investments. 
Ł Awarded $48 million since 2014 
to networks of community 
development ˚nancial institutions 
(CDFI), providing capital to small 
businesses and community 
projects unable to qualify for 
traditional loans. The initial $33 
million investment with 42 CDFIs 
leveraged an additional $226 
million of capital to preserve 
a˜ordable housing and support 
small business growth in low-
income communities. 
Ł Provided $3 million to support 
the launch of a $30 million 
National African American Small Business Loan Fund managed by 
the Valley Economic Development 
Centers to provide entrepreneurs 
in Chicago, Los Angeles and New 
York with ˛exible capital to grow 
their businesses. Ł Committed nearly $6 million since 
2014 to support skills-based 
summer employment opportuni
-ties for young people, including 
more than 3,200 jobs and work-
related opportunities in 2015.
Ł Provided $2.2 million to support 
implementation of global engage
-ment strategies in cities across 
the United States and released 
pro˚les on the economic competi
-tiveness of Stockholm and 
 Johannesburg through the Global 
Cities Initiative, a joint project 
 of the Brookings Institution and 
 JPMorgan Chase that promotes 
sustainable economic growth.
 Increasing ˜nancial capability
Ł Committed $45 million since 
2014 to nonpro˚ts, helping more 
than 1 million low-income individ
-uals in 11 countries acquire the 
knowledge and tools needed to 
promote their ˚nancial health. 
Ł Launched the Catalyst Fund with 
the Bill & Melinda Gates Founda
-tion to provide $2 million in 
funding and mentorship to social 
entrepreneurs in emerging 
 markets focused on breakthrough 
technology innovations for 
 consumers globally.
Ł Announced nine winners of the 
Financial Solutions Lab 
competition to identify ˚nancial 
technology products that help 
U.S. households manage cash 
˛ow challenges. Winners received 
$3 million in capital, technical assistance and mentorship to 
accelerate their development. 
 The Lab is a $30 million program 
launched with the Center for 
Financial Services Innovation to 
identify and scale promising 
innovations to improve consumer 
˚nancial health. Ł Committed $7.5 million to the 
Accion Frontier Inclusion Fund to 
promote innovations in ˚nancial 
services in emerging markets. 
JPMorgan Chase has deployed 
$68 million to impact invest
-ments that have helped improve 
the livelihoods of more than 58 
million people. 
Ł Supported the new BankOn 2.0 
national account standards to 
provide ﬁsafeﬂ accounts for 
 consumers just entering the bank
-ing mainstream. Chase Liquid
®  has been identi˚ed as a model 
account that meets these 
 important new standards.
 Supporting service members, 
veterans and their families
Ł Announced the evolution of the 
100,000 Jobs Mission Š an employer coalition founded by 
JPMorgan Chase and 10 other 
companies in 2011 to hire veter
-ans. The newly named Veteran 
Jobs Mission re˛ects the coalition™s 
growth to 220 employers commit
-ted to hiring 1 million veterans. 
Since 2011, members have hired 
more than 314,000 veterans Š 
over 10,000 of those hires were 
made by JPMorgan Chase. 
Ł Donated more than $7.5 million 
 in the second year of a $20 million 
commitment to the Philanthropy-
Joining Forces Impact Pledge 
 in support of veterans and their 
families.Ł Renewed support to Syracuse 
 University™s Institute for Veterans 
and Military Families through a 
$14 million contribution through 
2020. In addition to other proj
-ects, this contribution will con
-tinue to wholly fund the Veterans 
Career Transition Program through 
which more than 3,400 post-9/11 
veterans and military spouses 
have earned 4,600 certi˚cates 
since 2011.
Ł Supported military families in 
 need by donating more than 800 
mortgage-free homes, valued at 
nearly $150 million, through the 
˚rm™s nonpro˚t partners.
 Engaging local communities
Ł Engaged more than 47,000 
employees in volunteer service and 
sent 32 top managers to Detroit and 
Mumbai to apply their expertise full 
time to help our nonpro˚t partners 
expand their capacity to serve local 
communities. 
Ł Provided more than 31,000 hours 
of skilled volunteerism through 
Technology for Social Good, a pro
-gram that harnesses the technical 
experience of our employees to 
develop innovative technology 
solutions for nonpro˚ts. Technol
-ogy for Social Good delivered 
$3.3 million in social value to 
over 100 nonpro˚ts globally.
Ł Completed the ˚rst year of the 
expansion of The Fellowship 
 Initiative, a JPMorgan Chase 
 program that prepares 120 young 
men of color to succeed in high 
school, college and beyond. 
 Fellows participated in more than 
30 days of extracurricular aca
-demic and leadership programs, 
including an All Star Code tech
-nology development workshop. 
 Promoting innovation in 
sustainable investment
Ł Continued support for Nature
-Vest, which structured the ˚rst-
ever climate adaptation debt 
swap to protect 30% of the 
marine territories of the Seychelles. 
In 2014, JPMorgan Chase was the 
founding sponsor of NatureVest, 
The Nature Conservancy™s 
 conservation ˚nance unit.
Ł Underwrote more than $4 billion 
in green and sustainability-
themed bonds and committed and 
arranged approximately $2 billion 
of capital for renewable energy 
projects in the United States. 
Ł Launched the Dementia Discovery 
Fund in partnership with the U.K. 
government, which has attracted 
more than $100 million from 
leading pharmaceutical companies 
for investments into new treat
-ments for dementia. 
 Table of contents
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report65Financial Information:66Five-Year Summary of Consolidated Financial Highlights
Audited financial statements:67Five-Year Stock Performance174Management’s Report on Internal Control Over 
Financial Reporting
Management’s discussion and analysis:175Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting 
Firm
68Introduction176Consolidated Financial Statements
69Executive Overview181Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

72Consolidated Results of Operations

75Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis

77Off–Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Cash 
Obligations
79Consolidated Cash Flows Analysis
80Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Supplementary information:83Business Segment Results309Selected quarterly financial data
107Enterprise-wide Risk Management311Glossary of Terms

112Credit Risk Management
133Market Risk Management
140Country Risk Management

142Model Risk Management
Note:143Principal Risk ManagementThe following pages from JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s 2015
Form 10-K are not included herein: 1-64, 316-332144Operational Risk Management

146Legal Risk Management

147Compliance Risk Management

148Reputation Risk Management

149Capital Management

159Liquidity Risk Management

165Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm

170Accounting and Reporting Developments

172Nonexchange-Traded Commodity Derivative Contracts 
at Fair Value
173Forward-Looking Statements
Financial
66JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportFIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
(unaudited) As of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except per share, ratio
, headcount data and where otherwise noted)
20152014201320122011
Selected income statement dataTotal net revenue
$93,543
$95,112$97,367$97,680$97,843
Total noninterest expense
59,01461,27470,46764,72962,911
Pre-provision profit
34,52933,83826,90032,95134,932
Provision for credit losses
3,8273,1392253,3857,574
Income before income tax expense30,70230,69926,67529,56627,358
Income tax expense
6,2608,9548,7898,3078,402
Net income$24,442
$21,745$17,886$21,259$18,956
Earnings per share data

Net income:            Basic$6.05
$5.33$4.38$5.21$4.50
           Diluted6.005.294.345.194.48
Average shares:     Basic
3,700.43,763.53,782.43,809.43,900.4
              Diluted3,732.83,797.53,814.93,822.23,920.3
Market and per common share data

Market capitalization$241,899
$232,472$219,657$167,260$125,442
Common shares at period-end
3,663.53,714.83,756.13,804.03,772.7
Share price
(a)High$70.61
$63.49$58.55$46.49$48.36
Low50.0752.9744.2030.8327.85
Close66.0362.5858.4843.9733.25
Book value per share
60.4656.9853.1751.1946.52
Tangible book value per share (“TBVPS”)
(b)48.1344.6040.7238.6833.62
Cash dividends declared per share
1.721.581.441.201.00
Selected ratios and metrics
Return on common equity (“ROE”)11%
10%9%11%11%
Return on tangible common equity (“ROTCE”)
(b)1313111515
Return on assets (“ROA”)0.990.890.750.940.86
Overhead ratio6364726664Loans-to-deposits ratio6556576164High quality liquid assets (“HQLA“) (in billions)
(c)
$496
$600$522341NA
Common equity tier 1 (“CET1”) capital ratio
(d)11.8%
10.2%10.7%11.0%10.0%
Tier 1 capital ratio
(d)13.511.611.912.612.3
Total capital ratio
(d)15.113.114.315.215.3
Tier 1 leverage ratio
(d)8.57.67.17.16.8
Selected balance sheet data (period-end)
Trading assets$343,839
$398,988$374,664$450,028$443,963
Securities290,827348,004354,003371,152364,793
Loans837,299757,336738,418733,796723,720
Core Loans732,093628,785583,751555,351518,095
Total assets2,351,6982,572,2742,414,8792,358,3232,264,976
Deposits1,279,7151,363,4271,287,7651,193,5931,127,806
Long-term debt
(e)
288,651276,379267,446248,521255,962
Common stockholders’ equity221,505211,664199,699194,727175,514
Total stockholders’ equity247,573231,727210,857203,785183,314
Headcount234,598241,359251,196258,753259,940
Credit quality metrics

Allowance for credit losses
$14,341
$14,807$16,969$22,604$28,282
Allowance for loan losses to total retained loans1.63%
1.90%2.25%3.02%3.84%
Allowance for loan losses to retained loans excluding purchased credit-impaired loans
(f)
1.371.551.802.433.35
Nonperforming assets
$7,034
$7,967$9,706$11,906$11,315
Net charge-offs4,0864,7595,8029,06312,237
Net charge-off rate
0.52%
0.65%0.81%1.26%1.78%
Note: Effective October 1, 2015, and January 1, 2015, JPMorgan Chase & Co. adopted new accounting guidance, retrospectively, re
lated to (1) the presentation of debt issuance costs, and (2) investments in 
affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit, respectively. For additional information, see E
xplanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on 
pages 80–82, Accounting and Reporting Developments on page 170, and Note 1.
(a) Share prices shown for JPMorgan Chase’s common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange.
(b) TBVPS and ROTCE are non-GAAP financial measures. For further discussion of these measures, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 80–82.

(c) HQLA represents the amount of assets that qualify for inclusion in the liquidity coverage ratio under the final U.S. rule (
“U.S. LCR”) for December 31, 2015 and the Firm’s estimated amount for December 31, 
2014 prior to the effective date of the final rule, and under the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio (“Basel III LCR”) for prio
r periods. The Firm did not begin estimating HQLA until December 31, 2012. For 
additional information, see HQLA on page 160.
(d) Basel III Transitional rules became effective on January 1, 2014; prior period data is based on Basel I rules. As of December 31, 2014 the ratios presented are calculated under the Basel III 

Advanced Transitional Approach. CET1 capital under Basel III replaced Tier 1 common capital under Basel I. Prior to Basel III becoming effective on January 1, 2014, Tier 1 common capital 

under Basel I was a non-GAAP financial measure
. See Capital Management on pages 149–158 for additional information on Basel III and non-GAAP financial measures of regulatory capital.
(e) Included unsecured long-term debt of $211.8 billion, $207.0 billion, $198.9 billion, $200.1 billion and $230.5 billion resp
ectively, as of December 31, of each year presented.

(f) Excluded the impact of residential real estate purchased credit-impaired (“PCI”) loans, a non-GAAP financial measure. For further discussion of these measures, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the 
Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 80–82. For further discussion, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 130–
132.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report67FIVE-YEAR STOCK PERFORMANCE
The following table and graph compare the five-year cumulative total return for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or 
the “Firm”) common stock with the cumulative return of the S&P 500 Index, the KBW Bank Index and the S&P Financial Index. 

The S&P 500 Index is a commonly referenced United States of America (“U.S.”) equity benchmark consisting of leading 

companies from different economic sectors. The KBW Bank Index seeks to reflect the performance of banks and thrifts that are 

publicly traded in the U.S. and is composed of 24 leading national money center and regional banks and thrifts. The S&P 

Financial Index is an index of 87 financial companies, all of which ar
e components of the S&P 500. The Firm is a component of 
all three industry indices.
The following table and graph assume simultaneous investments of $100 on December 31, 2010, in JPMorgan Chase common 
stock and in each of the above indices. The comparison assumes that all dividends are reinvested.
December 31,
(in dollars)20102011201220132014
2015JPMorgan Chase$100.00$80.03$108.98$148.98$163.71
$177.40
KBW Bank Index100.0076.82102.19140.77153.96
154.71S&P Financial Index100.0082.94106.78144.79166.76
164.15S&P 500 Index100.00102.11118.44156.78178.22
180.67December 31,(in dollars)
Management’s discussion and analysis
68JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThis section of JPMorgan Chase’s Annual Report for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 (“Annual Report”), provides Management’s 
discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”) of JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of Te
rms 
on pages 311–315 for definitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report.
 The MD&A included in this Annual Report contains 
statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements
 are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase’s management and are subject to significant risks and 

uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties c
ould cause the Firm’s actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such 
forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described herein (see Forward-looking Statements on pag
e 173) and in JPMorgan Chase’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 (“2015 Form 10-K”), in Part I, 

Item 1A: Risk factors; reference is hereby made to both.
INTRODUCTIONJPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial holding company 

incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading 

global financial services firm and one of the largest banking 

institutions in the U.S., with operations worldwide; the Firm 

had $2.4 trillion in assets and $247.6 billion in 
stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2015. The Firm is 

a leader in investment banking, financial services for 

consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, 

financial transaction processing and asset management. 

Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves 

millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world’s 

most prominent corporate, institutional and government 

clients.JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan 
Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A.”), a national banking association with U.S. branches in 

23 states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association 

(“Chase Bank USA, N.A.”), a national banking association 

that is the Firm’s credit card-issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase’s 

principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 

(“JPMorgan Securities”), the Firm’s U.S. investment banking 

firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase 

operate nationally as well as through overseas branches 

and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary 

foreign banks. One of the Firm’s principal operating 

subsidiaries in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) is J.P. Morgan 

Securities plc, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
For management reporting purposes, the Firm’s activities 

are organized into four major reportable business 

segments, as well as a Corporate segment. The Firm’s 

consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking 

(“CCB”) segment. The Firm’s wholesale business segments 

are Corporate & Investment Bank (“CIB”), Commercial 

Banking (“CB”), and Asset Management (“AM”). For a 

description of the Firm’s business segments, and the 

products and services they provide to their respective client 

bases, refer to Business Segment Results on pages 83–106, 

and Note 33.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report69EXECUTIVE OVERVIEWThis executive overview of the MD&A highlights selected 
information and may not contain all of the information that is 

important to readers of this Annual Report. For a complete 

description of the trends and uncertainties, as well as the 

risks and critical accounting estimates affecting the Firm and 

its various lines of business, this Annual Report should be 

read in its entirety.
Financial performance of JPMorgan ChaseYear ended December 31,(in millions, except per sharedata and ratios)20152014Change
Selected income statement dataTotal net revenue
$93,543
$95,112(2)%
Total noninterest expense
59,01461,274(4)
Pre-provision profit34,52933,8382
Provision for credit losses3,8273,13922
Net income24,442
21,74512
Diluted earnings per share6.00
5.2913
Return on common equity11%
10%Capital ratios
(a)CET111.810.2Tier 1 capital13.511.6(a) Ratios presented are calculated under the transitional Basel III rules 
and represent the Collins Floor. See Capital Management on pages 
149–158 for additional information on Basel III.
Summary of 2015 Results

JPMorgan Chase reported record full-year 2015 net income 

of $24.4 billion, and record earnings per share of $6.00, on 

net revenue of $93.5 billion. Net income increased by $2.7 

billion compared with net income of $21.7 billion in 2014. 

ROE for the year was 11%, up from 10% in the prior year.
The increase in net income in 2015 was driven by lower taxes 
and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by lower net 
revenue and a higher provision for credit losses. The decline 

in net revenue was predominantly driven by lower Corporate 

private equity gains, lower CIB revenue reflecting the impact 

of business simplification, and lower CCB Mortgage Banking 

revenue. These decreases were partially offset by a benefit 

from a legal settlement in Corporate and higher operating 
lease income, predominantly in CCB. 
The decrease in noninterest expense was driven by lower CIB 
expense, reflecting the impact of business simplification, and 
lower CCB expense as a result of efficiencies, predominantly 
reflecting declines in headcount-related expense and lower 
professional fees, partially offset by investments in the 

business. As a result of these changes, the Firm’s overhead 
ratio in 2015 was lower compared with the prior year. 
The provision for credit losses increased from the prior year 
as a result of an increase in the wholesale provision, 
reflecting the impact of downgrades, including in the Oil & 

Gas portfolio. The consumer provision declined, reflecting 

lower net charge-offs due to continued discipline in credit 

underwriting, as well as improvement in the economy driven 

by increasing home prices and lower unemployment levels. 

This was partially offset by a lower reduction in the allowance 

for loan losses.
Total firmwide allowance for credit losses in 2015 was $14.3 
billion, resulting in a loan loss coverage ratio of 1.37%, 
excluding the PCI portfolio, compared with 1.55% in the 
prior year. The Firm’s allowance for loan losses to retained 
nonaccrual loans, excluding the PCI portfolio and credit card, 
was 117% compared with 106% in 2014. Firmwide, net 
charge-offs were $4.1 billion for the year, down $673 million 

from 2014. Nonperforming assets at year-end were $7.0 
billion, down $933 million.
The Firm’s results reflected solid underlying performance 
across its four major reportable business segments, with 

continued strong lending and consumer deposit growth. 
Firmwide average core loans increased by 12% compared 
with the prior year. Within CCB, Consumer & Business Banking 

average deposits increased 9% over the prior year. The Firm 
had nearly 23 million active mobile customers at year end, 
an increase of 20% over the prior year. Credit card sales 

volume (excluding Commercial Card) was up 7% for the year 

and merchant processing volume was up 12%. The CIB 

maintained its #1 ranking in Global Investment Banking Fees 

according to Dealogic. CB had record average loans, with an 

11% increase compared with the prior year. CB also had 

record gross investment banking revenue of $2.2 billion, up 

10% from the prior year. AM had positive net long-term 
Management’s discussion and analysis
70JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportclient inflows and continued to deliver strong investment 
performance with 80% of mutual fund assets under 

management (“AUM”) ranked in the 1st or 2nd quartiles over 

the past five years. AM also increased average loan balances 

by 8% in 2015. 
In 2015, the Firm continued to adapt its strategy and 
financial architecture toward meeting regulatory and capital 

requirements and the changing banking landscape, while 
serving its clients and customers, investing in its businesses, 
and delivering strong returns to its shareholders. 
Importantly, the Firm exceeded all of its 2015 financial 

targets including those related to balance sheet optimization 

and managing its capital, its GSIB surcharge and expense. On 
capital, the Firm exceeded its capital target of reaching Basel 
III Fully Phased-In Advanced and Standardized CET1 ratios of 

approximately 11%, ending the year with estimated Basel III 

Advanced Fully Phased-in CET1 capital and ratio of $173.2 
billion and 11.6%, respectively. The Firm also exceeded its 

target of reducing its GSIB capital surcharge, ending the year 

at an estimated 3.5% GSIB surcharge, achieved through a 
combination of reducing wholesale non-operating deposits, 
level 3 assets and derivative notionals.
The Firm’s fully phased-in supplementary leverage ratio 
(“SLR”) was 6.5% and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s fully 
phased-in SLR was 6.6%. The Firm was also compliant with 
the fully phased-in U.S. liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) and 
had $496 billion of HQLA as of year-end 2015. 
The Firm’s tangible book value per share was $48.13, an 
increase of 8% from the prior year. Total stockholders’ equity 

was $247.6 billion at December 31, 2015. 
Tangible book value per share and each of these Basel III 
Advanced Fully Phased-In measures are non-GAAP financial 
measures; they are used by management, bank regulators, 
investors and analysts to assess and monitor the Firm’s 
capital position and liquidity. For further discussion of Basel 

III Advanced Fully Phased-in measures and the SLR under the 
U.S. final SLR rule, see Capital Management on 
pages 149–158, and for further discussion of LCR and HQLA, see 
Liquidity Risk Management on 
pages 159–164.The Firm provided credit to and raised capital of $2.0 trillion 
for its clients during 2015. This included $705 billion of 

credit to corporations, $233 billion of credit to consumers, 

and $22 billion to U.S. small businesses. During 2015, the 

Firm also raised $1.0 trillion of capital for clients. 

Additionally, $68 billion of credit was provided to, and capital 

was raised for, nonprofit and government entities, including 

states, municipalities, hospitals and universities.
The Firm has substantially completed its business 
simplification agenda, exiting businesses, products or clients 
that were non-core, not at scale or not returning the 

appropriate level of return in order to focus on core activities 

for its core clients and reduce risk to the Firm. While the 
business simplification initiative impacted revenue growth in 
2015, it did not have a meaningful impact on the Firm’s 

profitability. The Firm continues to focus on streamlining, 

simplifying and centralizing operational functions and 
processes in order to attain more consistencies and 

efficiencies across the Firm. To that end, the Firm continues 

to make progress on simplifying its legal entity structure, 
streamlining its Global Technology function, rationalizing its 
use of vendors, and optimizing its real estate location 

strategy.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report71Business outlook These current expectations are forward-looking statements 

within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform 

Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on 

the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase’s 

management and are subject to significant risks and 

uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause the 

Firm’s actual results to differ materially from those set forth in 

such forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking 

Statements on page 173 and the Risk Factors section on pages 

8–18.Business OutlookJPMorgan Chase’s outlook for the full-year 2016 should be 
viewed against the backdrop of the global and U.S. 
economies, financial markets activity, the geopolitical
 environment, the competitive environment, client activity 
levels, and regulatory and legislative developments in the 

U.S. and other countries where the Firm does business. Each 

of these inter-related factors will affect the performance of 
the Firm and its lines of business. The Firm expects it will 
continue to make appropriate adjustments to its businesses 
and operations in response to ongoing developments in the 

legal and regulatory, as well as business and economic, 
environment in which it operates. 
In the first quarter of 2016, management expects net 
interest income and net interest margin to be relatively flat 
when compared with the fourth quarter of 2015. During 

2016, if there are no changes in interest rates, management 

expects net interest income could be approximately $2 billion 

higher than in 2015, reflecting the Federal Reserve’s rate 

increase in December 2015 and loan growth.
Management expects core loan growth of approximately 
10%-15% in 2016 as well as continued growth in retail 

deposits which are anticipated to lead to the Firm’s balance 
sheet growing to approximately $2.45 trillion in 2016.
Management also expects managed noninterest revenue of 
approximately $50 billion in 2016, a decrease from 2015, 

primarily driven by lower Card revenue reflecting 

renegotiated co-brand partnership agreements and lower 
revenue in Mortgage Banking. 
The Firm continues to experience charge-offs at levels lower 
than its through-the-cycle expectations reflecting favorable 

credit trends across the consumer and wholesale portfolios, 
excluding Oil & Gas. Management expects total net charge-
offs of up to approximately $4.75 billion in 2016. Based on 

the changes in market expectations for oil prices since year-

end 2015, management believes reserves during the first 
quarter of 2016 could increase by approximately $500 
million for Oil & Gas, and by approximately $100 million for 
Metals & Mining.
The Firm continues to take a disciplined approach to 
managing its expenses, while investing in growth and 

innovation. The Firm intends to leverage its scale and 

improve its operating efficiencies, in order to reinvest its 

expense savings in additional technology and marketing 

investments and fund other growth initiatives. As a result, 

Firmwide adjusted expense in 2016 is expected to be 

approximately $56 billion (excluding Firmwide legal 

expense). 
Additionally, the Firm will continue to adapt its capital 
assessment framework to review businesses and client 

relationships against multiple binding constraints, including 

GSIB and other applicable capital requirements, imposing 
internal limits on business activities to align or optimize the 
Firm’s balance sheet and risk-weighted assets (“RWA”) with 

regulatory requirements in order to ensure that business 

activities generate appropriate levels of shareholder value. 
During 2016, the Firm expects the CET1 capital ratio 
calculated under the Basel III Standardized Approach to 
become its binding constraint. As a result of the anticipated 
growth in the balance sheet, management anticipates that 

the Firm will have, over time, $1.55 trillion in Standardized 

risk weighted assets, and is expecting that, over the next 

several years, its Basel III CET1 capital ratio will be between 
11% and 12.5%. In the longer term, management expects to 
maintain a minimum Basel III CET1 ratio of 11%. It is the 
Firm’s current intention that the Firm’s capital ratios continue 

to exceed regulatory minimums as they are fully 

implemented in 2019 and thereafter. Likewise, the Firm will 

be evolving its funding framework to ensure it meets the 

current and proposed more stringent regulatory liquidity 

rules, including those relating to the availability of adequate 

Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (“TLAC”).
In Mortgage Banking within CCB, management expects 
noninterest revenue to decline by approximately $700 
million in 2016 as servicing balances continue to decline 
from year-end 2015 levels. The Card net charge-off rate is 
expected to be approximately 2.5% in 2016.
In CIB, management expects Investment Banking revenue in 
the first quarter of 2016 to be approximately 25% lower 
than the prior year first quarter, driven by current market 
conditions in the underwriting businesses. In addition, 
Markets revenue to date in the first quarter of 2016 is down 
approximately 20%, when compared to a particularly strong 

period in the prior year and reflecting the current challenging 
market conditions. Prior year Markets revenue was positively 
impacted by macroeconomic events, including the Swiss franc 

decoupling from the Euro. Actual Markets revenue results for 
the first quarter will continue to be affected by market 

conditions, which can be volatile. In Securities Services, 
management expects revenue of approximately $875 million 

in the first quarter of 2016.
Management’s discussion and analysis
72JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportCONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following section of the MD&A provides a comparative 
discussion of JPMorgan Chase’s Consolidated Results of 

Operations on a reported basis for the three-year period 

ended December 31, 2015. Factors that relate primarily to a 

single business segment are discussed in more detail within 

that business segment. For a discussion of the Critical 

Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm that affect the 

Consolidated Results of Operations, see pages 165–169.
RevenueYear ended December 31,(in millions)201520142013
Investment banking fees$6,751
$6,542$6,354
Principal transactions10,40810,53110,141
Lending- and deposit-relatedfees5,6945,8015,945
Asset management,administration andcommissions15,50915,93115,106
Securities gains20277667
Mortgage fees and relatedincome2,5133,5635,205
Card income5,9246,0206,022
Other income
(a)3,0323,0134,608
Noninterest revenue50,033
51,47854,048
Net interest income43,51043,63443,319
Total net revenue$93,543
$95,112$97,367
(a) Included operating lease income of $2.1 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.5 
billion for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 
respectively.
2015 compared with 2014 
Total net revenue for 2015 was down by 2% compared with 

the prior year, predominantly driven by lower Corporate 

private equity gains, lower CIB revenue reflecting the 

impact of business simplification initiatives, and lower CCB 

Mortgage Banking revenue. These decreases were partially 

offset by a benefit from a legal settlement in Corporate, and 

higher operating lease income, predominantly in CCB.
Investment banking fees increased from the prior year, 
reflecting higher advisory fees, partially offset by lower 

equity and debt underwriting fees. The increase in advisory 

fees was driven by a greater share of fees for completed 

transactions as well as growth in industry-wide fee levels. 

The decrease in equity underwriting fees resulted from 

lower industry-wide issuance, and the decrease in debt 

underwriting fees resulted primarily from lower loan 

syndication and bond underwriting fees on lower industry-

wide fee levels. For additional information on investment 
banking fees, see CIB segment results on pages 94–98 and 
Note 7.Principal transactions revenue decreased from the prior 
year, reflecting lower private equity gains in Corporate 
driven by lower valuation gains and lower net gains on sales 
as the Firm exits this non-core business. The decrease was 
partially offset by higher client-driven market-making 
revenue, particularly in foreign exchange, interest rate and 
equity-related products in CIB, as well as a gain of 

approximately $160 million on CCB’s investment in Square, 
Inc. upon its initial public offering. For additional 
information, see CIB and Corporate segment results on 
pages 94–98 and pages 105–106, respectively, and Note 7.
Asset management, administration and commissions 
revenue decreased compared with the prior year, largely as 

a result of lower fees in CIB and lower performance fees in 

AM. The decrease was partially offset by higher asset 

management fees as a result of net client inflows into assets 

under management and the impact of higher average 

market levels in AM and CCB. For additional information, 

see the segment discussions of CIB and AM on pages 94–98 
and pages 102–104, respectively, and Note 7.
Mortgage fees and related income decreased compared 
with the prior year, reflecting lower servicing revenue 

largely as a result of lower average third-party loans 

serviced, and lower net production revenue reflecting a 

lower repurchase benefit. For further information on 

mortgage fees and related income, see the segment 

discussion of CCB on pages 85–93 and Notes 7 and 17.
For information on lending- and deposit-related fees, see 
the segment results for CCB on pages 85–93, CIB on pages 

94–98, and CB on pages 99–101 and Note 7; securities 
gains, see the Corporate segment discussion on pages 105–

106; and card income, see CCB segment results on pages 

85–93.Other income was relatively flat compared with the prior 
year, reflecting a $514 million benefit from a legal 

settlement in Corporate, higher operating lease income as a 

result of growth in auto operating lease assets in CCB, and 

the absence of losses related to the exit of non-core 

portfolios in Card. These increases were offset by the 

impact of business simplification in CIB; the absence of a 
benefit recognized in 2014 from a franchise tax settlement; 

and losses related to the accelerated amortization of cash 

flow hedges associated with the exit of certain non-

operating deposits.
Net interest income was relatively flat compared with the 
prior year, as lower loan yields, lower investment securities 

net interest income, and lower trading asset balance and 

yields were offset by higher average loan balances and 

lower interest expense on deposits. The Firm’s average 

interest-earning assets were $2.1 trillion in 2015, and the 

net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable-

equivalent (“FTE”) basis, was 2.14%, a decrease of 4 basis 

points from the prior year.
2014 compared with 2013Total net revenue for 2014 was down by 2% compared with 

the prior year, predominantly due to lower mortgage fees 

and related income and lower other income. The decrease 

was partially offset by higher asset management, 

administration and commissions revenue.
Investment banking fees increased compared with the prior 
year, due to higher advisory and equity underwriting fees, 

largely offset by lower debt underwriting fees. The increase 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report73in advisory fees was driven by the combined impact of a 
greater share of fees for completed transactions, and 

growth in industry-wide fees. The increase in equity 

underwriting fees was driven by higher industry-wide 

issuance. The decrease in debt underwriting fees was 

primarily related to lower bond underwriting fees compared 

with the prior year, and lower loan syndication fees on 

lower industry-wide fees. 
Principal transactions revenue increased as the prior year 
included a $1.5 billion loss related to the implementation of 

the funding valuation adjustment (“FVA”) framework for 

over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives and structured notes. 

Private equity gains increased as a result of higher net gains 

on sales. These increases were partially offset by lower 

fixed income markets revenue in CIB, primarily driven by 

credit-related and rates products, as well as the impact of 

business simplification initiatives. 
Lending- and deposit-related fees decreased compared 
with the prior year, reflecting the impact of business 

simplification initiatives and lower trade finance revenue 

in CIB. Asset management, administration and commissions 
revenue increased compared with the prior year, reflecting 

higher asset management fees driven by net client inflows 

and higher market levels in AM and CCB. The increase was 

offset partially by lower commissions and other fee revenue 

in CCB as a result of the exit of a non-core product in 2013. 
Securities gains decreased compared with the prior year, 
reflecting lower repositioning activity related to the Firm’s 

investment securities portfolio. 
Mortgage fees and related income decreased compared 
with the prior year, predominantly due to lower net 

production revenue driven by lower volumes due to higher 

mortgage interest rates, and tighter margins. The decline in 

net production revenue was partially offset by a lower loss 

on the risk management of mortgage servicing rights 

(“MSRs”).
Card income was relatively flat compared with the prior 
year, but included higher net interchange income due to 

growth in credit and debit card sales volume, offset by 

higher amortization of new account origination costs. 
Other income decreased from the prior year, predominantly 
from the absence of two significant items recorded in 

Corporate in 2013: gains of $1.3 billion and $493 million 

from sales of Visa shares and One Chase Manhattan Plaza, 

respectively. Lower valuations of seed capital investments in 

AM and losses related to the exit of non-core portfolios in 

Card also contributed to the decrease. These items were 

partially offset by higher auto lease income as a result of 

growth in auto lease volume, and a benefit from a tax 

settlement.
Net interest income increased slightly from the prior year, 

predominantly reflecting higher yields on investment 

securities, the impact of lower interest expense from lower 

rates, and higher average loan balances. The increase was 

partially offset by lower yields on loans due to the run-off of 

higher-yielding loans and new originations of lower-yielding 

loans, and lower average interest-earning trading asset 

balances. The Firm’s average interest-earning assets were 

$2.0 trillion, and the net interest yield on these assets, on a 

FTE basis, was 2.18%, a decrease of 5 basis points from the 

prior year.
Provision for credit losses
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)201520142013
Consumer, excluding credit card$(81)
$419$(1,871)
Credit card3,1223,0792,179
Total consumer3,041
3,498308
Wholesale786
(359)(83)
Total provision for credit losses$3,827
$3,139$225
2015 compared with 2014The provision for credit losses increased from the prior year 

as a result of an increase in the wholesale provision, largely 

reflecting the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas 

portfolio. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in 

the consumer provision, reflecting lower net charge-offs 

due to continued discipline in credit underwriting, as well as 

improvement in the economy driven by increasing home 

prices and lower unemployment 
levels. The increase was 
partially offset by a lower reduction in the allowance for 

loan losses. For a more detailed discussion of the credit 

portfolio and the allowance for credit losses, see the 

segment discussions of CCB on pages 85–93, CB on pages 

99–101, and the Allowance For Credit Losses on pages 

130–132.2014 compared with 2013The provision for credit losses increased by $2.9 billion 

from the prior year as result of a lower benefit from 

reductions in the consumer allowance for loan losses, 

partially offset by lower net charge-offs. The consumer 

allowance reduction in 2014 was primarily related to the 

consumer, excluding credit card, portfolio and reflected the 

continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies in the residential real estate portfolio. The wholesale provision 

reflected a continued favorable credit environment. 
Management’s discussion and analysis
74JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNoninterest expenseYear ended December 31,(in millions)201520142013
Compensation expense$29,750
$30,160$30,810
Noncompensation expense:Occupancy3,7683,9093,693
Technology, communications andequipment6,1935,8045,425
Professional and outside services7,0027,7057,641
Marketing2,7082,5502,500
Other(a)(b)9,59311,14620,398
Total noncompensation expense29,264
31,11439,657
Total noninterest expense$59,014
$61,274$70,467
(a) Included legal expense of $3.0 billion
, $2.9 billion and $11.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 
respectively.
(b) Included Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)-related 
expense of $1.2 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.5 billion for the years 

ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
2015 compared with 2014
 Total noninterest expense decreased by 4% from the prior 

year, as a result of lower CIB expense, predominantly 

reflecting the impact of business simplification; and lower 

CCB expense resulting from efficiencies related to declines 

in headcount-related expense and lower professional fees. 

These decreases were partially offset by investment in the 

businesses, including for infrastructure and controls.
Compensation expense decreased compared with the prior 
year, predominantly driven by lower performance-based 

incentives and reduced headcoun
t, partially offset by higher 
postretirement benefit costs and investment in the 

businesses, including for infrastructure and controls.
Noncompensation expense decreased from the prior year, 
reflecting benefits from business simplification in CIB; lower 

professional and outside services expense, reflecting lower 

legal services expense and a reduced number of contractors 

in the businesses; lower amortization of intangibles; and the 

absence of a goodwill impairment in Corporate. These 

factors were partially offset by higher depreciation expense, 

largely associated with higher auto operating lease assets in 

CCB; higher marketing expense in CCB; and higher FDIC-

related assessments. Legal expense was relatively flat 

compared with the prior year. For a further discussion of 

legal expense, see Note 31.
2014 compared with 2013
Total noninterest expense decreased by $9.2 billion, or 

13%, from the prior year, as a result of lower other expense 

(in particular, legal expense) and lower compensation 

expense.
Compensation expense decreased compared with the prior 
year, predominantly driven by 
lower headcount in CCB 
Mortgage Banking, lower performance-based compensation 

expense in CIB, and lower postretirement benefit costs. The 

decrease was partially offset by investments in the 

businesses, including headcount for controls.
Noncompensation expense decreased compared with the 
prior year, due to lower other expense, predominantly 

reflecting lower legal expense. Lower expense for 

foreclosure-related matters and production and servicing-

related expense in CCB Mortgage Banking, lower FDIC-

related assessments, and lower amortization due to certain 

fully amortized intangibles, also contributed to the decline. 

The decrease was offset partially by investments in the 

businesses, including for controls, and costs related to 

business simplification initiatives across the Firm. 
Income tax expense
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except rate)
201520142013
Income before income taxexpense$30,702
$30,699$26,675
Income tax expense6,2608,9548,789
Effective tax rate20.4%29.2%32.9%
2015 compared with 2014The effective tax rate decreased compared with the prior 

year, predominantly due to the recognition in 2015 of tax 

benefits of $2.9 billion and other changes in the mix of 

income and expense subject to U.S. federal, state and local 

income taxes, partially offset by prior-year tax adjustments. 

The recognition of tax benefits in 2015 was due to the 

resolution of various tax audits, as well as the release of 

U.S. deferred taxes associated with the restructuring of 

certain non-U.S. entities. For further information see 

Note 26.2014 compared with 2013The decrease in the effective tax rate from the prior year 

was largely attributable to the effect of the lower level of 

nondeductible legal-related penalties, partially offset by 

higher 2014 pretax income in combination with changes in 

the mix of income and expense subject to U.S. federal, state 

and local income taxes, and lower tax benefits associated 

with tax adjustments and the settlement of tax audits. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report75CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS ANALYSISSelected Consolidated balance sheets data
December 31, (in millions)20152014Change
AssetsCash and due from banks$20,490
$27,831(26)%
Deposits with banks340,015484,477(30)
Federal funds sold and securitiespurchased under resaleagreements212,575215,803(1)
Securities borrowed98,721110,435(11)
Trading assets:Debt and equity instruments284,162320,013(11)
Derivative receivables59,67778,975(24)
Securities290,827348,004(16)
Loans837,299757,33611
Allowance for loan losses(13,555)(14,185)(4)
Loans, net of allowance for loanlosses823,744
743,15111
Accrued interest and accountsreceivable46,60570,079(33)
Premises and equipment14,36215,133(5)
Goodwill47,32547,647(1)
Mortgage servicing rights6,6087,436(11)
Other intangible assets1,0151,192(15)
Other assets105,572102,0983
Total assets$2,351,698
$2,572,274(9)%
LiabilitiesDeposits$1,279,715
$1,363,427(6)
Federal funds purchased andsecurities loaned or sold underrepurchase agreements152,678192,101(21)
Commercial paper
15,56266,344(77)
Other borrowed funds
21,10530,222(30)
Trading liabilities:
Debt and equity instruments74,10781,699(9)
Derivative payables52,79071,116(26)
Accounts payable and otherliabilities177,638206,939(14)
Beneficial interests issued byconsolidated variable interest
entities (“VIEs”)41,87952,320(20)
Long-term debt
288,651276,3794
Total liabilities2,104,125
2,340,547(10)
Stockholders’ equity
247,573231,7277
Total liabilities andstockholders’ equity$2,351,698
$2,572,274(9)%
The following is a discussion of the significant changes 
between December 31, 2015 and 2014.
Cash and due from banks and deposits with banks
The Firm’s excess cash is placed with various central banks, 

predominantly Federal Reserve Banks. The net decrease in 

cash and due from banks and deposits with banks was 

primarily due to the Firm’s actions to reduce wholesale non-

operating deposits.
Securities borrowed
The decrease was largely driven by a lower demand for 

securities to cover short positions in CIB. For additional 

information, refer to Notes 3 and 13.
Trading assets
–debt and equity instrumentsThe decrease was predominantly related to client-driven 
market-making activities in CIB, which resulted in lower 

levels of both debt and equity instruments. For additional 

information, refer to Note 3.
Trading assets and liabilities
–derivative receivables and 
payables

The decrease in both receivables and payables was 

predominantly driven by declines in interest rate 

derivatives, commodity derivatives, foreign exchange 

derivatives and equity derivatives due to market 

movements, maturities and settlements related to client-

driven market-making activities in CIB. For additional 

information, refer to Derivative contracts on pages 127–

129, and Notes 3 and 6.SecuritiesThe decrease was largely due to paydowns and sales of 

non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities, non-U.S. 

government debt securities, and non-U.S. corporate debt 

securities reflecting a shift to loans. For additional 

information related to securities, refer to the discussion 

in the Corporate segment on pages 105–106, and Notes 3 

and 12.Loans and allowance for loan losses
The increase in loans was attributable to an increase in 

consumer loans due to higher originations and retention of 

prime mortgages in Mortgage Banking (“MB”) and AM, and 

higher originations of auto loans in CCB, as well as an 

increase in wholesale loans driven by increased client 

activity, notably in commercial real estate.
The decrease in the allowance for loan losses was 
attributable to a lower consumer, excluding credit card, 

allowance for loan losses, driven by a reduction in the 

residential real estate portfolio allowance as a result of 

continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies and increased granularity in the impairment estimates. The 

wholesale allowance increased, largely reflecting the impact 

of downgrades in the Oil & Gas portfolio. For a more 

detailed discussion of loans and the allowance for loan 

losses, refer to Credit Risk Management on pages 112–132, 

and Notes 3, 4, 14 and 15.Management’s discussion and analysis
76JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportAccrued interest and accounts receivable
The decrease was due to lower customer receivables related 

to client activity in CIB, and a reduction in unsettled 

securities transactions.
Mortgage servicing rights 
For information on MSRs, see Note 17.
Other assetsOther assets increased modestly as a result of an increase 

in income tax receivables, largely associated with the 

resolution of certain tax audits, and higher auto operating 

lease assets from growth in business volume. These factors 

were mostly offset by lower private equity investments 

driven by the sale of a portion of the Private Equity business 

and other portfolio sales.
DepositsThe decrease was attributable to lower wholesale deposits, 

partially offset by higher consumer deposits. The decrease 

in wholesale deposits reflected the impact of the Firm’s 

actions to reduce non-operating deposits. The increase in 

consumer deposits reflected continuing positive growth 

from strong customer retention. For more information, 

refer to the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 

159–164; and Notes 3 and 19.Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold 
under repurchase agreements

The decrease was due to a decline in secured financing of 

trading assets-debt and equity instruments in CIB and of 

investment securities in the Chief Investment Office (“CIO”). 

For additional information on the Firm’s Liquidity Risk 

Management, see pages 159–164.
Commercial paper
The decrease was associated with the discontinuation of a 

cash management product that offered customers the 

option of sweeping their deposits into commercial paper 

(“customer sweeps”), and lower issuances in the wholesale 

markets, consistent with Treasury’s short-term funding 

plans. For additional information, see Liquidity Risk 

Management on pages 159–164.Accounts payable and other liabilities
The decrease was due to lower brokerage customer 

payables related to client activity in CIB.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
The decrease was predominantly due to a reduction in 

commercial paper issued by conduits to third parties and to 

maturities of certain municipal bond vehicles in CIB, as well 

as net maturities of credit card securitizations. For further 

information on Firm-sponsored VIEs and loan securitization 

trusts, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements on pages 77–

78 and Note 16.Long-term debt
The increase was due to net issuances, consistent with 

Treasury’s long-term funding plans. For additional 

information on the Firm’s long-term debt activities, see 

Liquidity Risk Management on pages 159–164 and Note 21.
Stockholders’ equity
The increase was due to net income and preferred stock 

issuances, partially offset by the declaration of cash 

dividends on common and preferred stock, and repurchases 

of common stock. For additional information on 

accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (“AOCI”), 

see Note 25; for the Firm’s capital actions, see Capital 

Management on page 157 and Notes 22, 23 and 25.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report77OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONSIn the normal course of business, the Firm enters into 
various contractual obligations that may require future cash 

payments. Certain obligations are recognized on-balance 

sheet, while others are off-balance sheet under accounting 

principles generally accepted in the U.S (“U.S. GAAP”). The 

Firm is involved with several types of off–balance sheet 

arrangements, including through nonconsolidated special-

purpose entities (“SPEs”), which are a type of VIE, and 

through lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees).
Special-purpose entities
The most common type of VIE is an SPE. SPEs are commonly 

used in securitization transactions in order to isolate certain 

assets and distribute the cash flows from those assets to 

investors. SPEs are an important part of the financial 

markets, including the mortgage- and asset-b
acked 
securities and commercial paper markets, as they provide 

market liquidity by facilitating investors’ access to specific 

portfolios of assets and risks. SPEs may be organized as 

trusts, partnerships or corporations and are typically 

established for a single, discrete purpose. SPEs are not 

typically operating entities and usually have a limited life 

and no employees. The basic SPE structure involves a 

company selling assets to the SPE; the SPE funds the 

purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors.
JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity for itself 
and its clients by securitizing financial assets, and by 

creating investment products for clients. The Firm is 

involved with SPEs through multi-seller conduits, investor 

intermediation activities, and loan securitizations. See Note 
16 for further information on these types of SPEs.
The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all 
SPE-related transactions and related exposures, such as 

derivative transactions and lending-related commitments 

and guarantees.
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to 
support any SPE transaction, and its policies require that 

transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm’s length and 

reflect market pricing. Consistent with this policy, no 

JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs 

with which the Firm is involved where such investment 

would violate the Firm’s Code of Conduct. These rules 

prohibit employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf 

of the Firm in transactions with which they or their family 

have any significant financial interest.
Implications of a credit rating downgrade to JPMorgan Chase 
Bank, N.A.
For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, JPMorgan Chase 
Bank, N.A. could be required to provide funding if its short-

term credit rating were downgraded below specific levels, 
primarily “P-1”, “A-1” and “F1” for Moody’s Investors 

Service (“Moody’s”), Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, 

respectively. These liquidity commitments support the 

issuance of asset-backed commercial paper by Firm-

administered consolidated SPEs. In the event of a short-

term credit rating downgrade, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 

absent other solutions, would be required to provide 

funding to the SPE if the commercial paper could not be 

reissued as it matured. The aggregate amounts of 

commercial paper outstanding held by third parties as of 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, was $8.7 billion and $12.1 
billion, respectively. The aggregate amounts of commercial 

paper issued by these SPEs could increase in future periods 

should clients of the Firm-administered consolidated SPEs 

draw down on certain unfunded lending-related 

commitments. These unfunded lending-related 

commitments were $5.6 billion and $9.9 billion at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Firm could 

facilitate the refinancing of some of the clients’ assets in 

order to reduce the funding obligation. For further 

information, see the discussion of Firm-administered multi-

seller conduits in Note 16.The Firm also acts as liquidity provider for certain municipal 
bond vehicles. The Firm’s obligation to perform as liquidity 

provider is conditional and is limited by certain termination 

events, which include bankruptcy or failure to pay by the 

municipal bond issuer and any credit enhancement 

provider, an event of taxability on the municipal bonds or 

the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to below 

investment grade. See Note 16 for additional information.
Off–balance sheet lending-related financial 
instruments, guarantees, and other commitments
JPMorgan Chase provides lending-related financial 

instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet 

the financing needs of its customers. The contractual 

amount of these financial instruments represents the 

maximum possible credit risk to the Firm should the 

counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be 

required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and 

should the counterparty subsequently fail to perform 

according to the terms of the contract. Most of these 

commitments and guarantees expire without being drawn 

or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractual 

amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm’s view, 

representative of its actual future credit exposure or 

funding requirements. For further discussion of lending-

related financial instruments, guarantees and other 

commitments, and the Firm’s accounting for them, see 

Lending-related commitments on page 127 and Note 29. 

For a discussion of liabilities associated with loan sales and 

securitization-related indemnifications, see Note 29.
Management’s discussion and analysis
78JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportContractual cash obligations
The accompanying table summarizes, by remaining 
maturity, JPMorgan Chase’s significant contractual cash 

obligations at December 31, 2015. The contractual cash 

obligations included in the table below reflect the minimum 

contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts 

with terms that are both fixed and determinable. Excluded 

from the below table are certain liabilities with variable 

cash flows and/or no obligation to return a stated amount 

of principal at maturity.
The carrying amount of on-balance sheet obligations on the 

Consolidated balance sheets may differ from the minimum 

contractual amount of the obligations reported below. For a 

discussion of mortgage repurchase liabilities and other 

obligations, see Note 29.
Contractual cash obligationsBy remaining maturity at December 31,
(in millions)2015201420162017-20182019-2020After 2020
TotalTotalOn-balance sheet obligationsDeposits(a)$1,262,865$5,166$3,553$4,555$1,276,139
$1,361,597
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned orsold under repurchase agreements151,4338113491152,738
192,128Commercial paper15,562———15,562
66,344Other borrowed funds
(a)11,331———11,331
15,734Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs16,38918,4803,0933,13041,092
50,200Long-term debt
(a)45,97282,29359,66992,272280,206
262,888Other(b)3,6591,2011,0242,4888,372
8,355Total on-balance sheet obligations1,507,211107,95167,342102,9361,785,440
1,957,246Off-balance sheet obligations
Unsettled reverse repurchase and securities 
borrowing agreements
(c)
42,482———42,482
40,993Contractual interest payments
(d)8,7879,4616,69321,20846,149
48,038Operating leases
(e)
1,6683,0942,3884,67911,829
12,441Equity investment commitments
(f)
387—754599211,108Contractual purchases and capital expenditures1,2668862761702,598
2,832Obligations under affinity and co-brand programs9827580434962,303Total off-balance sheet obligations54,68813,7169,51226,559104,475
107,715Total contractual cash obligations$1,561,899$121,667$76,854$129,495$1,889,915
$2,064,961
(a) Excludes structured notes on which the Firm is not obligated to return a stated amount of principal at the maturity of the notes, but is obligated to return 
an amount based on the performance of the structured notes.
(b) Primarily includes dividends declared on preferred and common stock, deferred annuity contracts, pension and postretirement
 obligations and insurance 
liabilities.(c) For further information, refer to unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements in Note 29.
(d) Includes accrued interest and future contractual interest obligations. Excludes interest related to structured notes for which the Firm’s payment obligation 
is based on the performance of certain benchmarks.
(e) Includes noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes and for energy-relat
ed tolling service 
agreements. Excludes the benefit of noncancelable sublease rentals of $1.9 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2015 and 20
14, respectively.
(f) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, included unfunded commitments of $50 million and $147 million, respectively, to third-party private equity funds, and 
$871 million and $961 million of unfunded commitments, respectively, to other equity investments. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report79CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS ANALYSIS(in millions)Year ended December 31,201520142013
Net cash provided by/(used in)Operating activities$73,466
$36,593$107,953
Investing activities106,980(165,636)(150,501)
Financing activities(187,511)118,22828,324
Effect of exchange ratechanges on cash(276)(1,125)272
Net decrease in cash and duefrom banks$(7,341)
$(11,940)$(13,952)
Operating activities
JPMorgan Chase’s operating assets and liabilities support 

the Firm’s lending and capital markets activities, including 

the origination or purchase of loans initially designated as 

held-for-sale. Operating assets and liabilities can vary 

significantly in the normal course of business due to the 

amount and timing of cash flows, which are affected by 

client-driven and risk management activities and market 

conditions. The Firm believes cash flows from operations, 

available cash balances and its capacity to generate cash 

through secured and unsecured sources are sufficient to 

meet the Firm’s operating liquidity needs.
Cash provided by operating activities in 2015 resulted from 
a decrease in trading assets, predominantly due to client-

driven market-making activities in CIB, resulting in lower 

levels of debt and equity securities. Additionally, cash was 

provided by a decrease in accounts receivable due to lower 

client receivables and higher net proceeds from loan sales 

activities. This was partially offset by cash used due to a 

decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities, resulting 

from lower brokerage customer payables related to client 

activity in CIB. In 2014 cash provided reflected higher net 

proceeds from loan securitizations and sales activities when 

compared with 2013. In 2013 cash provided reflected a 

decrease in trading assets from client-driven market-making 

activities in CIB, resulting in lower levels of debt securities, 

partially offset by net cash used in connection with loans 

originated or purchased for sale. Cash provided by 

operating activities for all periods also reflected net income 

after noncash operating adjustments.
Investing activities
The Firm’s investing activities predominantly include loans 

originated to be held for investment, the investment 

securities portfolio and other short-term interest-earning 

assets. Cash provided by investing activities during 2015 

predominantly resulted from lower deposits with banks due 

to the Firm’s actions to reduce wholesale non-operating 

deposits; and net proceeds from paydowns, maturities, 

sales and purchases of investment securities. Partially 

offsetting these net inflows was cash used for net 

originations of consumer and wholesale loans, a portion of 

which reflected a shift from investment securities. Cash
used in investing activities during 2014 and 2013 resulted 

from increases in deposits with banks, attributable to higher 

levels of excess funds; cash was also used for growth in 

wholesale and consumer loans in 2014, while in 2013 cash 
used reflected growth only in wholesale loans. Partially 

offsetting these cash outflows in 2014 and 2013 was a net 

decline in securities purchased under resale agreements 

due to a shift in the deployment of the Firm’s excess cash by 

Treasury, and a net decline in consumer loans in 2013 

resulting from paydowns and portfolio runoff or liquidation 

of delinquent loans. Investing activities in 2014 and 2013 

also reflected net proceeds from paydowns, maturities, 

sales and purchases of investment securities.
Financing activities
The Firm’s financing activities includes cash related to 

customer deposits, long-term debt, and preferred and 

common stock. Cash used in financing activities in 2015 

resulted from lower wholesale deposits partially offset by 

higher consumer deposits. Additionally, in 2015 cash 

outflows were attributable to lower levels of commercial 

paper due to the discontinuation of a cash management 
product that offered customers the option of sweeping their 

deposits into commercial paper; 
lower commercial paper 
issuances in the wholesale markets; and a decrease in 

securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements due 

to a decline in secured financings. Cash provided by 

financing activities in 2014 and 2013 predominantly 

resulted from higher consumer and wholesale deposits; 

partially offset in 2013 by a decrease in securities loaned 

or sold under repurchase agreements, predominantly due 

to changes in the mix of the Firm’s funding sources. For all 

periods, cash was provided by net proceeds from long-term 

borrowings and issuances of preferred stock; and cash was 

used for repurchases of common stock and cash dividends 

on common and preferred stock.
*     *     *For a further discussion of the activities affecting the Firm’s 

cash flows, see Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on 

pages 75–76, Capital Management on pages 149–158, and 
Liquidity Risk Management on pages 159–164.
Management’s discussion and analysis
80JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportEXPLANATION AND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM’S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESThe Firm prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements 
using U.S. GAAP; these financial statements appear on 

pages 176–180. That presentation, which is referred to as 

“reported” basis, provides the reader with an 

understanding of the Firm’s results that can be tracked 

consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of 

the Firm’s performance with other companies’ U.S. GAAP 

financial statements.In addition to analyzing the Firm’s results on a reported 
basis, management reviews the Firm’s results, including the 

overhead ratio, and the results of the lines of business, on a 

“managed” basis, which are non-GAAP financial measures. 

The Firm’s definition of managed basis starts with the 

reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain 

reclassifications to present total net revenue for the Firm 

(and each of the reportable business segments) on an FTE 

basis. Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive 

tax credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the 

managed results on a basis comparable to taxable 

investments and securities. This non-GAAP financial 

measure allows management to assess the comparability of 

revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. 

The corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt 

items is recorded within income tax expense. These 

adjustments have no impact on net income as reported by 

the Firm as a whole or by the lines of business.
Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new 

accounting guidance for investments in affordable housing 

projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit, 

which impacted the CIB. As a result of the adoption of this 

new guidance, the Firm made an accounting policy election 

to amortize the initial cost of qualifying investments in 

proportion to the tax credits and other benefits received, 

and to present the amortization as a component of income 

tax expense; previously such amounts were predominantly 

presented in other income. The guidance was required to be 

applied retrospectively and, accordingly, certain prior 

period amounts have been revised to conform with the 

current period presentation. The adoption of the guidance 

did not materially change the Firm’s results of operations on 

a managed basis as the Firm had previously presented and 

will continue to present the revenue from such investments 

on an FTE basis in other income for the purposes of 

managed basis reporting.
Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial 
measures at the business-segment level, because it believes 

these other non-GAAP financial measures provide 

information to investors about the underlying operational 

performance and trends of the particular business segment 

and, therefore, facilitate a comparison of the business 

segment with the performance of its competitors. Non- 

GAAP financial measures used by the Firm may not be 

comparable to similarly named non-GAAP financial 

measures used by other companies.
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm’s reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis.
201520142013
Year ended 
December 31, 

(in millions, except ratios)
Reported
Results
Fully taxable-
equivalent 
adjustments
(a)ManagedbasisReported
Results
Fully taxable-
equivalent 
adjustments
(a)ManagedbasisReported
Results
Fully taxable-
equivalent 
adjustments
(a)ManagedbasisOther income$3,032$1,980$5,012
$3,013$1,788$4,801$4,608$1,660$6,268
Total noninterest revenue50,0331,98052,013
51,4781,78853,26654,0481,66055,708
Net interest income43,5101,11044,620
43,63498544,61943,31969744,016
Total net revenue93,5433,09096,633
95,1122,77397,88597,3672,35799,724
Pre-provision profit34,5293,09037,619
33,8382,77336,61126,9002,35729,257
Income before income tax expense30,7023,09033,792
30,6992,77333,47226,6752,35729,032
Income tax expense6,2603,0909,350
8,9542,77311,7278,7892,35711,146
Overhead ratio63%NM61%
64%NM63%72%NM71%
(a)  Predominantly recognized in CIB and CB business segments and Corporate
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report81Calculation of certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP financial measuresCertain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures are calculated asfollows:Book value per share (“BVPS”)
Common stockholders’ equity at period-end /

Common shares at period-end
Overhead ratio
Total noninterest expense / Total net revenue
Return on assets (“ROA”)
Reported net income / Total average assets
Return on common equity (“ROE”)
Net income* / Average common stockholders’ equity
Return on tangible common equity (“ROTCE”)
Net income* / Average tangible common equity
Tangible book value per share (“TBVPS”)
Tangible common equity at period-end / Common shares at period-end
* Represents net income applicable to common equityTangible common equity (“TCE”), ROTCE and TBVPS are 
each non-GAAP financial measures. TCE represents the 

Firm’s common stockholders’ equity (i.e., total stockholders’ 

equity less preferred stock) less goodwill and identifiable 

intangible assets (other than MSRs), net of related deferred 

tax liabilities. ROTCE measures the Firm’s earnings as a 

percentage of average TCE. TBVPS represents the Firm’s TCE 

at period-end divided by common shares at period-end. 

TCE, ROTCE, and TBVPS are meaningful to the Firm, as well 

as investors and analysts, in assessing the Firm’s use of 

equity.
Additionally, certain credit and capital metrics and ratios 
disclosed by the Firm are non-GAAP measures. For 

additional information on these non-GAAP measures, see 

Credit Risk Management on pages 112–132, and Capital 

Management on pages 149–158.Tangible common equityPeriod-endAverageDec 31,2015Dec 31,2014Year ended December 31,(in millions, except per share and ratio data)201520142013
Common stockholders’ equity$221,505
$211,664
$215,690
$207,400$196,409
Less: Goodwill47,32547,64747,44548,02948,102
Less: Certain identifiable intangible assets1,0151,1921,0921,3781,950
Add: Deferred tax liabilities
(a)3,1482,8532,9642,9502,885
Tangible common equity$176,313
$165,678
$170,117
$160,943$149,242
Return on tangible common equityNANA13%13%11%
Tangible book value per share$48.13
$44.60
NANAN/A
(a) Represents deferred tax liabilities related to tax-deductible goodwill and to identifiable intangibles created in nontaxabl
e transactions, which are netted 
against goodwill and other intangibles when calculating TCE.
Management’s discussion and analysis
82JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNet interest income ex
cluding markets-based activities 
(formerly core net interest income)
In addition to reviewing net interest income on a managed 

basis, management also reviews net interest income 

excluding CIB’s markets-based activities to assess the 

performance of the Firm’s lending, investing (including 

asset-liability management) and deposit-raising activities. 

The data presented below are non-GAAP financial measures 

due to the exclusion of CIB’s markets-based net interest 

income and related assets. Management believes this 

exclusion provides investors and analysts with another 

measure by which to analyze the non-markets-related 

business trends of the Firm and provides a comparable 

measure to other financial institutions that are primarily 

focused on lending, investing and deposit-raising activities.
Net interest income excluding CIB markets-based 
activities dataYear ended December 31, 
(in millions, except rates)
201520142013
Net interest income – 
managed basis(a)(b)$44,620
$44,619$44,016
Less: Markets-based netinterest income4,8135,5525,492
Net interest income 
excluding markets
(a)$39,807
$39,067$38,524
Average interest-earningassets$2,088,242
$2,049,093$1,970,231
Less: Average markets-based interest-earning
assets493,225510,261504,218
Average interest-earning assets
excluding markets$1,595,017
$1,538,832$1,466,013
Net interest yield onaverage interest-earning
assets – managed basis2.14%2.18%2.23%
Net interest yield onaverage markets-based
interest-earning assets0.971.091.09
Net interest yield onaverage interest-earning
assets excluding
markets2.50%2.54%2.63%
(a) Interest includes the effect of related hedging derivatives. Taxable-equivalent 
amounts are used where applicable.
(b) For a reconciliation of net interest income on a reported and managed basis, see 
reconciliation from the Firm’s reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis on 
page 80.2015 compared with 2014 
Net interest income excluding CIB’s markets-based activities 

increased by $740 million in 2015 to $39.8 billion, and 

average interest-earning assets increased by $56.2 billion 

to $1.6 trillion. The increase in net interest income in 2015 

predominantly reflected higher average loan balances and 

lower interest expense on deposits. The increase was 

partially offset by lower loan yields and lower investment 

securities net interest income. The increase in average 

interest-earning assets largely reflected the impact of 

higher average deposits with banks. These changes in net 

interest income and interest-earning assets resulted in the 

net interest yield decreasing by 4 basis points to 2.50% for 

2015.2014 compared with 2013Net interest income excluding CIB’s markets-based activities 

increased by $543 million in 2014 to $39.1 billion, and 

average interest-earning assets increased by $72.8 billion 

to $1.5 trillion. The increase in net interest income in 2014 

predominantly reflected higher yields on investment 

securities, the impact of lower interest expense, and higher 

average loan balances. The increase was partially offset by 

lower yields on loans due to the run-off of higher-yielding 

loans and new originations of lower-yielding loans. The 

increase in average interest-earning assets largely reflected 

the impact of higher average balance of deposits with 

banks. These changes in net interest income and interest-

earning assets resulted in the net interest yield decreasing 

by 9 basis points to 2.54% for 2014.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report83BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTSThe Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are 
four major reportable business segments – Consumer & 

Community Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, 

Commercial Banking and Asset Management. In addition, 

there is a Corporate segment.
The business segments are determined based on the 

products and services provided, or the type of customer 

served, and they reflect the manner in which financial 

information is currently evaluated by management. Results 

of these lines of business are presented on a managed 

basis. For a definition of managed basis, see Explanation 

and Reconciliation of the Firm’s use of Non-GAAP Financial 

Measures, on pages 80–82.
JPMorgan ChaseConsumer BusinessesWholesale BusinessesConsumer & Community BankingCorporate & Investment BankCommercialBankingAssetManagementConsumer & 
Business Banking
Mortgage 
Banking
Card, CommerceSolutions & AutoBankingMarkets & Investor
Services •  MiddleMarketBanking •  GlobalInvestment
Management •  Consumer 
Banking/

Chase Wealth 

Management
 •  Business Banking
  •  Mortgage 
Production
 •  Mortgage 
Servicing
 •  Real Estate 
Portfolios
 •  Card Services
 –  Credit 
Card
 –  Commerce 
Solutions •  Auto & 
Student
 •  Investment 
Banking
 •  Treasury 
Services
 •  Lending
 •  Fixed 
Income 
Markets •  CorporateClient
Banking •  Global Wealth 

Management
 •  Equity 
Markets •  Securities Services
 •  Credit 
Adjustments 

& Other •  CommercialTerm
Lending •  Real Estate 
Banking
Description of business segment reporting methodology 
Results of the business segments are intended to reflect 

each segment as if it were essentially a stand-alone 

business. The management reporting process that derives 

business segment results allocates income and expense 

using market-based methodologies. The Firm periodically 

assesses the assumptions, methodologies and reporting 

classifications used for segment reporting, and further 

refinements may be implemented in future periods.
Revenue sharing When business segments join efforts to sell products and 

services to the Firm’s clients, the participating business 

segments agree to share revenue from those transactions. 

The segment results reflect these revenue-sharing 

agreements.
Funds transfer pricing 
Funds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest income 

and expense to each business and transfer the primary 

interest rate risk exposures to the Treasury group within 

Corporate. The allocation process is unique to each business 

segment and considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk 

and regulatory requirements of that segment as if it were 

operating independently, and as compared with its stand-

alone peers. This process is overseen by senior 

management and reviewed by the Firm’s Asset-Liability 

Committee (“ALCO”).
Preferred stock dividend allocation

As part of its funds transfer pricing process, the Firm 

allocates substantially all of the cost of its outstanding 

preferred stock to its reportable business segments, while 

retaining the balance of the cost in Corporate. This cost is 

included as a reduction to net income applicable to common 

equity in order to be consistent with the presentation of 

firmwide results. 
Business segment capital allocation changes 
On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of 

capital required for each line of business as well as the 

assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital to 
its lines of business and updates the equity allocations to its 

lines of business as refinements are implemented. Each 

business segment is allocated capital by taking into 

consideration stand-alone peer comparisons, regulatory 

capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced 

Fully Phased-In rules) and economic risk. The amount of 

capital assigned to each business is referred to as equity.  

For further information about line of business capital, see 

Line of business equity on page 156.
Expense allocation
Where business segments use services provided by 

corporate support units, or another business segment, the 

costs of those services are allocated to the respective 

business segments. The expense is generally 

allocated based on actual cost and use of services provided. 

In contrast, certain other costs related to corporate support 
Management’s discussion and analysis
84JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportunits, or to certain technology and operations, are not 
allocated to the business segments and are retained in 

Corporate. Expense retained in Corporate generally includes 

parent company costs that would not be incurred if the 
segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to 

align corporate support units; and other items not aligned 

with a particular business segment. 
Segment Results – Managed Basis

The following tables summarize the business segment results for the periods indicated.
Year ended December 31,Total net revenueTotal noninterest expensePre-provision profit/(loss)(in millions)201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
Consumer & Community Banking
$43,820
$44,368$46,537
$24,909
$25,609$27,842
$18,911
$18,759$18,695
Corporate & Investment Bank
33,54234,59534,712
21,36123,27321,744
12,18111,32212,968
Commercial Banking
6,8856,8827,092
2,8812,6952,610
4,0044,1874,482
Asset Management12,11912,02811,405
8,8868,5388,016
3,2333,4903,389
Corporate
26712(22)
9771,15910,255
(710)(1,147)(10,277)
Total
$96,633
$97,885$99,724
$59,014
$61,274$70,467
$37,619
$36,611$29,257
Year ended December 31,Provision for credit lossesNet income/(loss)Return on equity(in millions, except ratios)201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
Consumer & Community Banking
$3,059
$3,520$335
$9,789
$9,185$11,061
18%18%23%
Corporate & Investment Bank
332(161)(232)
8,0906,9088,850
121015
Commercial Banking
442(189)85
2,1912,6352,648
151819
Asset Management4465
1,9352,1532,083
212323
Corporate
(10)(35)(28)
2,437864(6,756)
NMNMNM
Total
$3,827
$3,139$225
$24,442
$21,745$17,886
11%10%9%
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report85CONSUMER & COMMUNITY BANKINGConsumer & Community Banking serves consumers andbusinesses through personal service at bank branches
and through ATMs, online, mobile and telephone
banking. CCB is organized into Consumer & Business
Banking (including Consumer Banking/Chase Wealth
Management and Business Banking), Mortgage Banking
(including Mortgage Production, Mortgage Servicing
and Real Estate Portfolios) and Card, Commerce
Solutions & Auto (“Card”). Consumer & Business
Banking offers deposit and investment products and
services to consumers, and lending, deposit, and cash
management and payment solutions to small
businesses. Mortgage Banking includes mortgage
origination and servicing activities, as well as
portfolios consisting of residential mortgages and
home equity loans. Card issues credit cards to
consumers and small businesses, offers payment
processing services to merchants, and provides auto
loans and leases and student loan services.Selected income statement data
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
201520142013
Revenue
Lending- and deposit-related fees$3,137
$3,039$2,983
Asset management,administration andcommissions2,1722,0962,116
Mortgage fees and relatedincome2,5113,5605,195
Card income5,4915,7795,785
All other income2,2811,4631,473
Noninterest revenue15,592
15,93717,552
Net interest income28,22828,43128,985
Total net revenue43,820
44,36846,537
Provision for credit losses3,0593,520335
Noninterest expenseCompensation expense9,77010,53811,686
Noncompensation expense15,13915,07116,156
Total noninterest expense24,909
25,60927,842
Income before income taxexpense15,852
15,23918,360
Income tax expense6,0636,0547,299
Net income$9,789
$9,185$11,061
Financial ratios
Return on common equity18%18%23%
Overhead ratio575860
Note: In the discussion and the tables which follow, CCB presents certain 
financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans; these are non-GAAP 

financial measures. For additional information, see Explanation and 

Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
2015 compared with 2014Consumer & Community Banking net income was $9.8 

billion, an increase of 7% compared with the prior year, 

driven by lower noninterest expense and lower provision for 

credit losses, largely offset by lower net revenue.
Net revenue was $43.8 billion, a decrease of 1% compared 
with the prior year. Net interest income was $28.2 billion, 

down 1%, driven by spread compression, predominantly 

offset by higher deposit and 
loan balances, and improved 
credit quality including lower reversals of interest and fees 

due to lower net charge-offs in Credit Card. Noninterest 

revenue was $15.6 billion, down 2%, driven by lower 

mortgage fees and related income, predominantly offset by 

higher auto lease and card sales volume, and the impact of 

non-core portfolio exits in Card in the prior year.
The provision for credit losses was $3.1 billion, a decrease 
of 13% from the prior year, reflecting lower net charge-

offs, partially offset by a lower reduction in the allowance 

for loan losses. The current-year provision reflected a $1.0 

billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses, compared 

with a $1.3 billion reduction in the prior year.
Noninterest expense was $24.9 billion, a decrease of 3% 
from the prior year, driven by lower Mortgage Banking 

expense.
2014 compared with 2013Consumer & Community Banking net income was $9.2 

billion, a decrease of 17% compared with the prior year, 

due to higher provision for credit losses and lower net 

revenue, partially offset by lower noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $44.4 billion, a decrease of 5% compared 
with the prior year. Net interest income was $28.4 billion, 

down 2%, driven by spread compression and lower 

mortgage warehouse balances, largely offset by higher 

deposit balances in Consumer & Business Banking and 

higher loan balances in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue 

was $16.0 billion, a decrease of 9%, driven by lower 

mortgage fees and related income.
The provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion, compared 
with $335 million in the prior year. The current-year 

provision reflected a $1.3 billion reduction in the allowance 

for loan losses and total net charge-offs of $4.8 billion. The 

prior-year provision reflected a $5.5 billion reduction in the 

allowance for loan losses and total net charge-offs of $5.8 

billion.Noninterest expense was $25.6 billion, a decrease of 8% 
from the prior year, driven by lower Mortgage Banking 

expense.
Management’s discussion and analysis
86JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportSelected metricsAs of or for the year endedDecember 31,(in millions, exceptheadcount)201520142013
Selected balance sheetdata (period-end)Total assets$502,652
$455,634$452,929
Trading assets – loans
(a)5,9538,4236,832
Loans:Loans retained445,316396,288393,351
Loans held-for-sale
(b)5423,416940
Total loans445,858
399,704394,291
Core loans341,881273,494246,751
Deposits557,645502,520464,412
Equity
(c)
51,00051,00046,000
Selected balance sheetdata (average)Total assets$472,972
$447,750$456,468
Trading assets – loans
(a)7,4848,04015,603
Loans:Loans retained414,518389,967392,797
Loans held-for-sale 
(d)2,062917209
Total loans$416,580
$390,884$393,006
Core loans301,700253,803234,135
Deposits530,938486,919453,304
Equity
(c)
51,00051,00046,000
Headcount127,094
137,186151,333
(a) Predominantly consists of prime mortgages originated with the intent to 
sell that are accounted for at fair value.
(b) Included period-end credit card loans held-for-sale of $76 million, $3.0 
billion and $326 million at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These amounts were excluded when calculating delinquency 

rates and the allowance for loan losses to period-end loans.
(c) Equity is allocated to the sub-business segments with $5.0 billion and $3.0 
billion of capital in 2015 and 2014, respectively, held at the CCB level 

related to legacy mortgage servicing matters.
(d) Included average credit card loans held-for-sale of $1.6 billion, $509 
million and $95 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 

2013, respectively. These amounts are excluded when calculating the net 

charge-off rate.
Selected metricsAs of or for the year endedDecember 31,(in millions, except ratios andwhere otherwise noted)201520142013
Credit data and quality statisticsNet charge-offs
(a)$4,084
$4,773$5,826
Nonaccrual loans(b)(c)
5,3136,4017,455
Nonperforming assets
(b)(c)
5,6356,8728,109
Allowance for loan losses
(a)9,16510,40412,201
Net charge-off rate
(a)0.99%1.22%1.48%
Net charge-off rate,
 excluding PCI 
loans1.101.401.73
Allowance for loan losses toperiod-end loans retained2.062.633.10
Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans retained,
 excluding PCI loans
(d)1.592.022.36
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonaccrual loans retained, 
excluding credit card
(b)(d)575857
Nonaccrual loans to total period-end loans, excluding

credit card
1.692.382.80
Nonaccrual loans to total period-end loans, excluding credit card 

and PCI loans(b)1.942.883.49
Business metricsNumber of:
Branches5,4135,6025,630
ATMs17,77718,05620,290
Active online customers (in 
thousands)(e)
39,24236,39633,742
Active mobile customers (inthousands)22,81019,08415,629
CCB households (in millions)57.857.256.7
(a) Net charge-offs and the net charge-off rates excluded $208 million, $533 
million, and $53 million of write-offs in the PCI portfolio for the years 
ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These write-offs 

decreased the allowance for loan losses for PCI loans. For further 

information on PCI write-offs, see Allowance for Credit Losses on

pages 130–132.(b) Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of 
PCI loans as all of the pools are performing.
(c) At December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, nonperforming assets excluded: 
(1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.3 billion, 

$7.8 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively, that are 90 or more days past 

due; (2) student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the 

Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP”) of $290 million, $367 

million and $428 million respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; 

(3) real estate owned (“REO”) insured by U.S. government agencies of 

$343 million, $462 million and $2.0 billion, respectively. These amounts 

have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.
(d) The allowance for loan losses for PCI loans of $2.7 billion, $3.3 billion and 
$4.2 billion at December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively; these 

amounts were also excluded from the applicable ratios.
(e) Users of all internet browsers and mobile platforms (mobile smartphone, 
tablet and SMS) who have logged in within the past 90 days.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report87Consumer & Business Banking
Selected income statement dataAs of or for the year endedDecember 31,(in millions, except ratios)201520142013
Revenue
Lending- and deposit-relatedfees$3,112
$3,010$2,942
Asset management,administration andcommissions2,0972,0251,815
Card income1,7211,6051,495
All other income611534492
Noninterest revenue7,541
7,1746,744
Net interest income10,44211,05210,668
Total net revenue17,983
18,22617,412
Provision for credit losses254305347
Noninterest expense11,91612,14912,162
Income before income taxexpense5,813
5,7724,903
Net income$3,581
$3,443$2,943
Return on common equity30%31%26%
Overhead ratio666770
Equity (period-end and average)$11,500
$11,000$11,000
2015 compared with 2014
Consumer & Business Banking net income was $3.6 billion, an increase of 4% compared with the prior year.
Net revenue was $18.0 billion, down 1% compared with the 
prior year. Net interest income was $10.4 billion, down 6% 

due to deposit spread compression, largely offset by higher 

deposit balances. Noninterest revenue was $7.5 billion, up 

5%, driven by higher debit card revenue, reflecting an 

increase in transaction volume, higher deposit-related fees 

as a result of an increase in customer accounts and a gain on 

the sale of a branch.
Noninterest expense was $11.9 billion, a decrease of 2% 
from the prior year, driven by lower headcount-related 

expense due to branch efficiencies, partially offset by higher 

legal expense.
2014 compared with 2013
Consumer & Business Banking net income was $3.4 billion, an increase of 17%, compared with the prior year, due t
o higher net revenue.
Net revenue was $18.2 billion, up 5% compared with the 
prior year. Net interest income was $11.1 billion, up 4% 

compared with the prior year, driven by higher deposit 

balances, largely offset by deposit spread compression. 

Noninterest revenue was $7.2 billion, up 6%, driven by 

higher investment revenue, reflecting an increase in client 

investment assets, higher debit card revenue, reflecting an 

increase in transaction volume, and higher deposit-related 

fees as a result of an increase in customer accounts.
Selected metricsAs of or for the yearended December 31,(in millions, exceptratios)201520142013
Business metrics
Business bankingorigination volume$6,775
$6,599$5,148
Period-end loans22,73021,20019,416
Period-end deposits:Checking246,448213,049187,182
Savings279,897255,148238,223
Time and other18,06321,34926,022
Total period-enddeposits544,408
489,546451,427
Average loans21,89420,15218,844
Average deposits:Checking226,713198,996176,005
Savings269,057249,281229,341
Time and other19,45224,05729,227
Total average deposits515,222
472,334434,573
Deposit margin1.90%2.21%2.32%
Average assets$41,457
$38,298$37,174
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs$253
$305$337
Net charge-off rate1.16%1.51%1.79%
Allowance for loanlosses$703
$703$707
Nonperforming assets270286391
Retail branch business metricsNet new investmentassets$11,852
$16,088$16,006
Client investment assets218,551213,459188,840
% managed accounts41%39%36%
Number of:Chase Private Clientlocations2,7642,5142,149
Personal bankers18,04121,03923,588
Sales specialists3,5393,9945,740
Client advisors2,9313,0903,044
Chase Private Clients441,369325,653215,888
Accounts (in 
thousands)(a)31,34230,48129,437
(a) Includes checking accounts and Chase Liquid
® cards.
Management’s discussion and analysis
88JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportMortgage Banking
Selected Financial statement dataAs of or for the year endedDecember 31,(in millions, except ratios)201520142013
Revenue
Mortgage fees and related 
income(a)$2,511
$3,560$5,195
All other income(65)37283
Noninterest revenue2,446
3,5975,478
Net interest income4,3714,2294,758
Total net revenue6,817
7,82610,236
Provision for credit losses(690)(217)(2,681)
Noninterest expense4,6075,2847,602
Income before income taxexpense2,900
2,7595,315
Net income$1,778
$1,668$3,211
Return on common equity10%9%16%
Overhead ratio686874
Equity (period-end andaverage)$16,000
$18,000$19,500
(a) For further information on mortgage fees and related income, see Note 17.
2015 compared with 2014
Mortgage Banking
 net income was $1.8 billion, an increase 
of 7% from the prior year, driven by lower noninterest 
expense and a higher benefit from the provision for credit 

losses, predominantly offset by lower net revenue.
Net revenue was $6.8 billion, a decrease of 13% compared 
with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.4 billion, an 

increase of 3% from the prior year, due to higher loan 

balances resulting from originations of high-quality loans that 

have been retained, partially offset by spread compression. 

Noninterest revenue was $2.4 billion, a decrease of 32% 

from the prior year. This decrease was driven by lower 

servicing revenue, largely as a result of lower average third-

party loans serviced and lower net production revenue, 

reflecting a lower repurchase benefit.
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $690 million, 
compared to a benefit of $217 million in the prior year, 

reflecting a larger reduction in the allowance for loan losses 

and lower net charge-offs. The current-year provision 

reflected a $600 million reduction in the non credit-impaired 

allowance for loan losses and a $375 million reduction in the 

purchased credit-impaired allowance for loan losses; the 

prior-year provision included a $400 million reduction in the 

non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses and a $300 

million reduction in the purchased credit-impaired allowance 

for loan losses. These reductions were due to continued 

improvement in home prices and delinquencies in both 

periods, as well as increased granularity in the impairment 

estimates in the current year.
Noninterest expense was $4.6 billion, a decrease of 13% 
from the prior year, reflecting lower headcount-related 

expense and lower professional fees.
2014 compared with 2013
Mortgage Banking 
net income was $1.7 billion, a decrease 
of 48%, from the prior year, driven by a lower benefit from 

the provision for credit losses and lower net revenue, 

partially offset by lower noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $7.8 billion, a decrease of 24%, compared 
with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.2 billion, a 

decrease of 11%, driven by spread compression and lower 
loan balances due to portfolio runoff and lower warehouse 
balances. Noninterest revenue was $3.6 billion, a decrease of 
34%, driven by lower net production revenue, largely 

reflecting lower volumes, lower servicing revenue, largely as 

a result of lower average third-party loans serviced, and 

lower revenue from an exited non-core product, largely offset 
by higher MSR risk management income and lower MSR asset 
amortization expense as a result of lower MSR asset value. 

See Note 17 for further information regarding changes in 

value of the MSR asset and related hedges, and mortgage 

fees and related income.
The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $217 million, 
compared to a benefit of $2.7 billion in the prior year, 

reflecting a smaller reduction in the allowance for loan 

losses, partially offset by lower net charge-offs. The current-

year provision reflected a $400 million reduction in the non 

credit-impaired allowance for loan losses and $300 million 

reduction in the purchased credit-impaired allowance for loan 

losses; the prior-year provision included a $2.3 billion 

reduction in the non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses 

and a $1.5 billion reduction in the purchased credit-impaired 
allowance for loan losses. These reductions were due to 
continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies.
Noninterest expense was $5.3 billion, a decrease of 30%, 
from the prior year, reflecting lower headcount-related 

expense, the absence of non-mortgage-backed securities 
(“MBS”) related legal expense, lower expense on foreclosure-
related matters, and lower FDIC-related expense.
Supplemental informationFor the year ended December31,(in millions)201520142013
Net interest income:Mortgage Production andMortgage Servicing$575
$736$887
Real Estate Portfolios3,7963,4933,871
Total net interest income$4,371
$4,229$4,758
Noninterest expense:Mortgage Production$1,491
$1,6443,083
Mortgage Servicing2,0412,2672,966
Real Estate Portfolios1,0751,3731,553
Total noninterest expense$4,607
$5,284$7,602
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report89Selected balance sheet dataAs of or for the year endedDecember 31,(in millions)201520142013
Trading assets – loans (period-end)
(a)$5,953
$8,423$6,832
Trading assets – loans (average)
(a)7,4848,04015,603
Loans, excluding PCI loansPeriod-end loans ownedHome equity43,74550,89957,863
Prime mortgage, including optionadjustable rate mortgages (“ARMs”)134,36180,41465,213
Subprime mortgage3,7325,0837,104
Other398477551
Total period-end loans owned182,236
136,873130,731
Average loans ownedHome equity47,21654,41062,369
Prime mortgage, including optionARMs107,72371,49161,597
Subprime mortgage4,4346,2577,687
Other436511588
Total average loans owned159,809
132,669132,241
PCI loans
Period-end loans ownedHome equity14,98917,09518,927
Prime mortgage8,89310,22012,038
Subprime mortgage3,2633,6734,175
Option ARMs13,85315,70817,915
Total period-end loans owned40,998
46,69653,055
Average loans ownedHome equity16,04518,03019,950
Prime mortgage9,54811,25712,909
Subprime mortgage3,4423,9214,416
Option ARMs14,71116,79419,236
Total average loans owned43,746
50,00256,511
Total Mortgage Banking
Period-end loans ownedHome equity58,73467,99476,790
Prime mortgage, including optionARMs157,107106,34295,166
Subprime mortgage6,9958,75611,279
Other398477551
Total period-end loans owned223,234
183,569183,786
Average loans ownedHome equity63,26172,44082,319
Prime mortgage, including optionARMs131,98299,54293,742
Subprime mortgage7,87610,17812,103
Other436511588
Total average loans owned203,555
182,671188,752
(a) Predominantly consists of prime mortgages originated with the intent to 
sell that are accounted for at fair value.
Credit data and quality statisticsAs of or for the year endedDecember 31,(in millions, except ratios)201520142013
Net charge-offs/(recoveries), 
excluding PCI loans
(a)Home equity$283
$473$966
Prime mortgage, includingoption ARMs482853
Subprime mortgage(53)(27)90
Other7910
Total net charge-offs/(recoveries), excluding PCI
loans2854831,119
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate,excluding PCI loansHome equity0.60%0.87%1.55%
Prime mortgage, includingoption ARMs0.040.040.09
Subprime mortgage(1.22)(0.43)1.17
Other1.611.761.70
Total net charge-off/(recovery) rate, excluding
PCI loans0.180.370.85
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate – 
reported
(a)Home equity0.450.651.17
Prime mortgage, includingoption ARMs0.040.030.06
Subprime mortgage(0.68)(0.27)0.74
Other1.611.761.70
Total net charge-off/(recovery) rate – reported0.14
0.270.59
30+ day delinquency rate, 
excluding PCI loans
(b)(c)
1.572.613.55
Allowance for loan losses,excluding PCI loans$1,588
$2,188$2,588
Allowance for PCI loans
(a)2,7423,3254,158
Allowance for loan losses4,330
5,5136,746
Nonperforming assets
(d)(e)
4,9716,1757,438
Allowance for loan losses toperiod-end loans retained1.94%3.01%3.68%
Allowance for loan losses toperiod-end loans retained,
excluding PCI loans0.871.601.99
(a) Net charge-offs and the net charge-off rates excluded $208 million, $533 million 
and $53 million of write-offs in the PCI portfolio for the years ended December 
31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These write-offs decreased the 
allowance for loan losses for PCI loans. For further information on PCI write-offs, 
see Allowance for Credit Losses on pages 130–132.
(b) At December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, excluded mortgage loans insured by 
U.S. government agencies of $8.4 billion $9.7 billion and $9.6 billion, 

respectively, that are 30 or more days past due. These amounts have been 
excluded based upon the government guarantee. For further discussion, see Note 
14 which summarizes loan delinquency information.
(c) The 30+ day delinquency rate for PCI loans was 11.21%, 13.33% and 15.31% 
at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(d) At December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) 
mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.3 billion, $7.8 billion 
and $8.4 billion, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due and (2) REO 
insured by U.S. government agencies of $343 million, $462 million and $2.0 
billion, respectively. These amounts have been excluded based upon the 
government guarantee.
(e) Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI 
loans as all of the pools are performing.
Management’s discussion and analysis
90JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportBusiness metricsAs of or for the yearended December 31,(in billions, exceptratios)201520142013
Mortgage originationvolume by channelRetail$36.1
$29.5$77.0
Correspondent70.348.588.5
Total mortgage 
origination volume
(a)106.478.0165.5
Total loans serviced(period-end)910.1948.81,017.2
Third-party mortgageloans serviced (period-
end)674.0751.5815.5
Third-party mortgageloans serviced
(average)715.4784.6837.3
MSR carrying value(period-end)6.67.49.6
Ratio of MSR carryingvalue (period-end) to
third-party mortgage
loans serviced (period-
end)0.98%0.98%1.18%
Ratio of annualized loanservicing-related
revenue to third-party
mortgage loans
serviced (average)0.350.360.40
MSR revenue multiple
(b)2.80x2.72x          2.95x
(a) Firmwide mortgage origination volume was $115.2 billion, $83.3 billion 
and $176.4. billion for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 
2013, respectively.
(b) Represents the ratio of MSR carrying value (period-end) to third-party 
mortgage loans serviced (period-end) divided by the ratio of loan servicing-

related revenue to third-party mortgage loans serviced (average).
Mortgage servicing-r
elated matters
The financial crisis resulted in unprecedented levels of 

delinquencies and defaults of 1–4 family residential real 

estate loans. Such loans required varying degrees of loss 

mitigation activities. Foreclosure is usually a last resort, and 

accordingly, the Firm has made, and continues to make, 

significant efforts to help borrowers remain in their homes.
The Firm entered into various Consent Orders and 
settlements with federal and state governmental agencies 

and private parties related to mortgage servicing, 

origination, and residential mortgage-backed securities 

activities. The requirements of these Consent Orders and 

settlements vary, but in the aggregate, include cash 

compensatory payments (in addition to fines) and/or 

“borrower relief,” which may include principal reduction, 

refinancing, short sale assistance, and other specified types 

of borrower relief. Other obligations required under certain 

Consent Orders and settlements, as well as under new 

regulatory requirements, include enhanced mortgage 

servicing and foreclosure standards and processes.
On June 11, 2015, the Firm signed the Second Amended 
Mortgage Banking Consent Order (the “Amended OCC 

Consent Order”) with the Office of the Comptroller of the 

Currency (“OCC”), which focused on ten remaining open 

items from the original mortgage-servicing Consent Order 

entered into with the OCC in April 2011 and imposed 

certain business restrictions on the Firm’s mortgage 

banking activities. The Firm completed its work on those 

items, and on January 4, 2016, the OCC terminated the 

Amended OCC Consent Order and lifted the mortgage 

business restrictions. The Firm remains under the 

mortgage-servicing Consent Order entered into with the 

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal 

Reserve”) on April 13, 2011, as amended on February 28, 

2013 (the “Federal Reserve Consent Order”). The Audit 

Committee of the Board of Directors will provide 

governance and oversight of the Federal Reserve Consent 

Order in 2016.The Federal Reserve Consent Order and certain other 
mortgage-related settlements are the subject of ongoing 

reporting to various regulators and independent overseers. 

The Firm’s compliance with certain of these settlements is 

detailed in periodic reports published by the independent 

overseers. The Firm is committed to fulfilling all of these 

commitments with appropriate due diligence and oversight.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report91Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto
Selected income statement dataAs of or for the year 
ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
201520142013
RevenueCard income$3,769
$4,173$4,289
All other income1,8369931,041
Noninterest revenue5,605
5,1665,330
Net interest income13,41513,15013,559
Total net revenue19,020
18,31618,889
Provision for credit losses3,4953,4322,669
Noninterest expense
(a)8,3868,1768,078
Income before income taxexpense7,1396,7088,142
Net income$4,430
$4,074$4,907
Return on common equity23%21%31%
Overhead ratio444543
Equity (period-end andaverage)$18,500
$19,000$15,500
Note: Chase Commerce Solutions, formerly known as Merchant Services, 
includes Chase Paymentech, ChaseNet and Chase Offers businesses.
(a) Included operating lease depreciation expense of $1.4 billion, $1.2 billion 
and $972 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 
2013, respectively.
2015 compared with 2014

Card 
net income was $4.4 billion, an increase of 9% 
compared with the prior year, driven by higher net revenue, 

partially offset by higher noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $19.0 billion, an increase of 4% compared 
with the prior year. Net interest income was $13.4 billion, 

up 2% from the prior year, driven by higher loan balances 

and improved credit quality including low
er reversals of 
interest and fees due to lower net charge-offs in Credit Card 

and a reduction in the reserve for uncollectible interest and 

fees, partially offset by spread compression. Noninterest 

revenue was $5.6 billion, up 8% compared with the prior 

year, driven by higher auto lease and card sales volumes, 

the impact of non-core portfolio exits in the prior year and a 

gain on the investment in Square, Inc. upon its initial public 

offering, largely offset by the impact of renegotiated co-

brand partnership agreements and higher amortization of 

new account origination costs.
The provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion, an increase 

of 2% compared with the prior year, reflecting a lower 

reduction in the allowance for loan losses, predominantly 

offset by lower net charge-offs. The current-year provision 

reflected a $51 million reduction in the allowance for loan 

losses, primarily due to runoff in the student loan portfolio. 

The prior-year provision included a $554 million reduction 

in the allowance for loan losses, primarily related to a 

decrease in the asset-specific allowance resulting from 

increased granularity of the impairment estimates and 

lower balances related to credit card loans modified in 

troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”), runoff in the student 

loan portfolio and lower estimated losses in auto loans.
Noninterest expense was $8.4 billion, up 3% from the prior 
year, driven by higher auto lease depreciation and higher 

marketing expense, partially offset by lower legal expense.
2014 compared with 2013Card 
net income was $4.1 billion, a decrease of 17%, 
compared with the prior year, predominantly driven by 

higher provision for credit losses and lower net revenue.
Net revenue was $18.3 billion, down 3% compared with the 
prior year. Net interest income was $13.2 billion, a 

decrease of 3% from the prior year, primarily driven by 

spread compression in Credit Card and Auto, partially offset 

by higher average loan balances. Noninterest revenue was 

$5.2 billion, down 3% from the prior year. The decrease 

was primarily driven by higher amortization of new account 

origination costs and the impact of non-core portfolio exits, 

largely offset by higher auto lease income and net 

interchange income from higher sales volume.
The provision for credit losses was $3.4 billion, compared 
with $2.7 billion in the prior year. The current-year 

provision reflected lower net charge-offs and a $554 

million reduction in the allowance for loan losses. The 

reduction in the allowance for loan losses was primarily 

related to a decrease in the asset-specific allowance 

resulting from increased granularity of the impairment 

estimates and lower balances related to credit card loans 

modified in TDRs, runoff in the student loan portfolio, and 

lower estimated losses in auto loans. The prior-year 

provision included a $1.7 billion reduction in the allowance 

for loan losses.
Noninterest expense was $8.2 billion, up 1% from the prior 
year, primarily driven by higher auto lease depreciation 

expense and higher investment in controls, predominantly 

offset by lower intangible amortization and lower 

remediation costs.
Management’s discussion and analysis
92JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportSelected metricsAs of or for the year 
ended December 31, 
(in millions, except ratios 

and where otherwise 

noted)201520142013
Selected balance sheetdata (period-end)Loans:Credit Card$131,463
$131,048$127,791
Auto60,25554,53652,757
Student8,1769,35110,541
Total loans$199,894
$194,935$191,089
Auto operating lease
assets9,1826,6905,512
Selected balance sheet data (average)
Total assets$206,765
$202,609$198,265
Loans:Credit Card125,881125,113123,613
Auto56,48752,96150,748
Student8,7639,98711,049
Total loans$191,131
$188,061$185,410
Auto operating leaseassets7,8076,1065,102
Business metricsCredit Card, excludingCommercial CardSales volume (in billions)$495.9
$465.6$419.5
New accounts opened8.78.87.3
Open accounts59.364.665.3
Accounts with salesactivity33.834.032.3
% of accounts acquiredonline67%56%55%
Commerce SolutionsMerchant processingvolume (in billions)$949.3
$847.9$750.1
Total transactions (inbillions)42.038.135.6
Auto
Loan and lease originationvolume (in billions)32.427.526.1
The following are brief descriptions of selected businessmetrics within Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto.Card Services
 includes the Credit Card and Commerce 
Solutions businesses.Commerce Solutions
 is a business that primarily processes 
transactions for merchants.
Total transactions
 – Number of transactions and 
authorizations processed for merchants.
Sales volume
 – Dollar amount of cardmember purchases, net 
of returns.
Open accounts
 – Cardmember accounts with charging 
privileges.Accounts with sales activity 
– represents the number of 
cardmember accounts with a sales transaction within the past 
month.Auto origination volume
 – Dollar amount of auto loans and 
leases originated.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report93Selected metricsAs of or for the year 
ended December 31, 
(in millions, except ratios)
201520142013
Credit data and qualitystatisticsNet charge-offs:Credit Card$3,122
$3,429$3,879
Auto214181158
Student210375333
Total net charge-offs$3,546
$3,985$4,370
Net charge-off rate:Credit Card
(a)2.51%2.75%3.14%
Auto0.380.340.31
Student2.403.753.01
Total net charge-off rate1.87
2.122.36
Delinquency rates30+ day delinquency rate:Credit Card
(b)1.431.441.67
Auto1.351.231.15
Student
(c)
1.812.352.56
Total 30+ daydelinquency rate1.42
1.421.58
90+ day delinquency rate – 
Credit Card
(b)0.720.700.80
Nonperforming assets
(d)$394
$411$280
Allowance for loan losses:Credit Card$3,434
$3,439$3,795
Auto & Student698749953
Total allowance for loanlosses$4,132
$4,188$4,748
Allowance for loan losses toperiod-end loans:
Credit Card
(b)2.61%2.69%2.98%
Auto & Student1.021.171.51
Total allowance for loanlosses to period-endloans2.07
2.182.49
(a) Average credit card loans included loans held-for-sale of $1.6 billion, $509 
million and $95 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 
2013, respectively. These amounts are excluded when calculating the net 

charge-off rate.
(b) Period-end credit card loans included loans held-for-sale of $76 million,
$3.0 billion and $326 million at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 
respectively. These amounts were excluded when calculating delinquency 

rates and the allowance for loan losses to period-end loans.
(c) Excluded student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the 
FFELP of $526 million, $654 million and $737 million at December 31, 
2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, that are 30 or more days past due. 

These amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee.
(d) Nonperforming assets excluded student loans insured by U.S. government 
agencies under the FFELP of $290 million, $367 million and $428 million 
at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, that are 90 or more 

days past due. These amounts have been excluded from nonaccrual loans 

based upon the government guarantee.
Card Services supplemental informationYear ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
201520142013
RevenueNoninterest revenue$3,673
$3,593$3,977
Net interest income11,84511,46211,638
Total net revenue15,518
15,05515,615
Provision for credit losses3,1223,0792,179
Noninterest expense6,0656,1526,245
Income before income taxexpense6,3315,8247,191
Net income$3,930
$3,547$4,340
Percentage of average loans:Noninterest revenue2.92%2.87%3.22%
Net interest income9.419.169.41
Total net revenue12.3312.0312.63
Management’s discussion and analysis
94JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportCORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANKThe Corporate & Investment Bank, which consists ofBanking and Markets & Investor Services, offers a
broad suite of investment banking, market-making,
prime brokerage, and treasury and securities products
and services to a global client base of corporations,
investors, financial institutions, government and
municipal entities. Banking offers a full range of
investment banking products and services in all major
capital markets, including advising on corporate
strategy and structure, capital-raising in equity and
debt markets, as well as loan origination and
syndication. Banking also includes Treasury Services,
which provides transaction services, consisting of cash
management and liquidity solutions. Markets &
Investor Services is a global market-maker in cash
securities and derivative instruments, and also offers
sophisticated risk management solutions, prime
brokerage, and research. Markets & Investor Services
also includes Securities Services, a leading global
custodian which provides custody, fund accounting and
administration, and securities lending products
principally for asset managers, insurance companies
and public and private investment funds.Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,(in millions)201520142013
Revenue
Investment banking fees$6,736
$6,570$6,331
Principal transactions
(a)9,9058,9479,289
Lending- and deposit-related fees1,5731,7421,884
Asset management,administration and commissions4,4674,6874,713
All other income1,0121,4741,519
Noninterest revenue23,693
23,42023,736
Net interest income9,84911,17510,976
Total net revenue
(b)33,54234,59534,712
Provision for credit losses332(161)(232)
Noninterest expenseCompensation expense9,97310,44910,835
Noncompensation expense11,38812,82410,909
Total noninterest expense21,361
23,27321,744
Income before income taxexpense11,849
11,48313,200
Income tax expense3,7594,5754,350
Net income$8,090
$6,908$8,850
(a) Included FVA and debt valuation adjustment (“DVA”) on OTC derivatives and 
structured notes, measured at fair value. FVA and
 DVA gains/(losses) were 
$687 million and $468 million and $(1.9) billion for the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(b) Included tax-equivalent adjustments, predominantly due to income tax 
credits related to alternative energy investments; income tax credits and 

amortization of the cost of investments in affordable housing projects; as 

well as tax-exempt income from municipal bond investments of $1.7 billion, 

$1.6 billion and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 

and 2013, respectively.
Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,(in millions, except ratios)201520142013
Financial ratios
Return on common equity12%10%15%
Overhead ratio646763
Compensation expense as
percentage of total net 
revenue
303031
Revenue by businessInvestment banking
(a)$6,376
$6,122$5,922
Treasury Services
(b)3,6313,7283,693
Lending
(b)1,4611,5472,147
Total Banking
(a)11,46811,39711,762
Fixed Income Markets
(a)12,59214,07515,976
Equity Markets
(a)5,6945,0444,994
Securities Services3,7774,3514,100
Credit Adjustments & Other
(c)
11(272)(2,120)
Total Markets & Investor 
Service
(a)22,07423,19822,950
Total net revenue$33,542
$34,595$34,712
(a) Effective in 2015, Investment banking revenue (formerly Investment 
banking fees) incorporates all revenue associated with investment banking 
activities, and is reported net of investment banking revenue shared with 

other lines of business; previously such shared revenue had been reported 

in Fixed Income Markets and Equity Markets. Prior period amounts have 

been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(b) Effective in 2015, Trade Finance revenue was transferred from Treasury 
Services to Lending. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform 

with the current period presentation.
(c) Consists primarily of credit valuation adjustments (“CVA”) managed by the 
credit portfolio group, and FVA and DVA on OTC derivatives and structured 

notes. Results are presented net of associated hedging activities and net of 

CVA and FVA amounts allocated to Fixed Income Markets and Equity 

Markets.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report952015 compared with 2014 
Net income was $8.1 billion, up 17% compared with $6.9 

billion in the prior year. The increase primarily reflected 

lower income tax expenses largely reflecting the release in 

2015 of U.S. deferred taxes associated with the 

restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities and lower 

noninterest expense partially offset by lower net revenue, 

both driven by business simplification, as well as higher 

provisions for credit losses.
Banking revenue was $11.5 billion, up 1% versus the prior 
year. Investment banking revenue was $6.4 billion, up 4% 

from the prior year, driven by higher advisory fees, partially 

offset by lower debt and equity underwriting fees. Advisory 

fees were $2.1 billion, up 31% on a greater share of fees 

for completed transactions as well as growth in the 

industry-wide fee levels. The Firm maintained its #2 ranking 

for M&A, according to Dealogic. Debt underwriting fees 

were $3.2 billion, down 6%, primarily related to lower 

bond underwriting and loan syndication fees on lower 

industry-wide fee levels. The Firm ranked #1 globally in fee 

share across high grade, high yield and loan products. 

Equity underwriting fees were $1.4 billion, down 9%, 

driven by lower industry-wide fee levels. The Firm was #1 in 

equity underwriting fees in 2015, up from #3 in 2014. 

Treasury Services revenue was $3.6 billion, down 3% 

compared with the prior year, primarily driven by lower net 

interest income. Lending revenue was $1.5 billion, down 

6% from the prior year, driven by lower trade finance 

revenue on lower loan balances.
Markets & Investor Services revenue was $22.1 billion, 
down 5% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets 

revenue was $12.6 billion, down 11% from the prior year, 

primarily driven by the impact of business simplification as 

well as lower revenue in credit-related products on an 

industry-wide slowdown, partially offset by increased 

revenue in Rates and Currencies & Emerging Markets on 

higher client activity. The lower Fixed Income revenue also 

reflected higher interest costs on higher long-term debt. 

Equity Markets revenue was $5.7 billion, up 13%, primarily 

driven by higher equity derivatives revenue across all 

regions. Securities Services revenue was $3.8 billion, down 

13% from the prior year, driven by lower fees as well as 

lower net interest income. 
The provision for credit losses was $332 million, compared 
to a benefit of $161 million in the prior year, reflecting a 

higher allowance for credit losses, including the impact of 

select downgrades within the Oil & Gas portfolio.
Noninterest expense was $21.4 billion, down 8% compared 
with the prior year, driven by the impact of business 

simplification as well as lower legal and compensation 

expenses. 
2014 compared with 2013
Net income was $6.9 billion, down 22% compared with 

$8.9 billion in the prior year. These results primarily 

reflected higher noninterest expense. Net revenue was 

$34.6 billion, flat compared with the prior year.
Banking revenue was $11.4 billion, down 3% from the prior 
year. Investment banking revenue was $6.1 billion, up 3% 

from the prior year. The increase was driven by higher 

advisory and equity underwriting fees, partially offset by 

lower debt underwriting fees. Advisory fees were $1.6 

billion, up 24% on stronger share of fees for completed 

transactions as well as growth in the industry-wide fee 

levels, according to Dealogic. Equity underwriting fees were 

$1.6 billion, up 5%, driven by higher industry-wide 

issuance. Debt underwriting fees were $3.4 billion, down 

4%, primarily related to lower loan syndication fees on 

lower industry-wide fee levels and lower bond underwriting 

fees. The Firm also ranked #1 globally in fees and volumes 

share across high grade, high yield and loan products. The 

Firm maintained its #2 ranking for M&A, and improved 

share of fees both globally and in the U.S. compared with 

the prior year. Treasury Services revenue was $3.7 billion, 

up 1% compared with the prior year, primarily driven by 

higher net interest income from increased deposits, largely 

offset by business simplification initiatives. Lending revenue 

was $1.5 billion, down from $2.1 billion in the prior year, 

driven by losses, compared with gains in the prior periods, 

on securities received from restructured loans, as well as 

lower net interest income and lower trade finance revenue.
Markets & Investor Services revenue was $23.2 billion, up 
1% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was 

$14.1 billion, down 12% from the prior year, driven by 

lower revenues in Fixed Income primarily from credit-

related and rates products as well as the impact of business 

simplification. Equity Markets revenue was $5.0 billion, up 

1% as higher prime services revenue was partially offset by 

lower equity derivatives revenue. Securities Services 

revenue was $4.4 billion, up 6% from the prior year, 

primarily driven by higher net interest income on increased 

deposits and higher fees and commissions. Credit 

Adjustments & Other revenue was a loss of $272 million, 

driven by net CVA losses partially offset by gains, net of 

hedges, related to FVA/DVA. The prior year was a loss of 

$2.1 billion (including the FVA implementation loss of $1.5 

billion and DVA losses of $452 million).
Noninterest expense was $23.3 billion, up 7% compared 
with the prior year as a result of higher legal expense and 

investment in controls. This was partially offset by lower 

performance-based compensation expense as well as the 

impact of business simplification. Management’s discussion and analysis
96JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportSelected metricsAs of or for the year ended 
December 31,

(in millions, except headcount)
201520142013
Selected balance sheet data(period-end)Assets$748,691
$861,466$843,248
Loans:Loans retained
(a)106,90896,40995,627
Loans held-for-sale andloans at fair value3,6985,56711,913
Total loans110,606
101,976107,540
Core Loans110,084100,772101,376
Equity62,00061,00056,500
Selected balance sheet data(average)Assets$824,208
$854,712$859,071
Trading assets-debt and equityinstruments302,514317,535321,585
Trading assets-derivativereceivables67,26364,83370,353
Loans:Loans retained
(a)98,33195,764104,864
Loans held-for-sale andloans at fair value4,5727,5995,158
Total loans$102,903
$103,363$110,022
Core Loans99,231102,604108,199
Equity62,00061,00056,500
Headcount
(b)49,06750,96552,082
(a) Loans retained includes credit portfolio loans, loans held by consolidated 
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, trade finance loans, other held-for-
investment loans and overdrafts.
(b) Effective in 2015, certain technology staff were transferred from CIB to CB; 
previously-reported headcount has been revised to conform with the 

current period presentation. As the related expense for these staff is not 

material, prior period expenses have not been revised. Prior to 2015, 

compensation expense related to this headcount was recorded in the CIB, 

with an allocation to CB (reported in noncompensation expense); 

commencing with 2015, such expense is recorded as compensation 

expense in CB and accordingly total noninterest expense related to this 

headcount in both CB and CIB remains unchanged.
Selected metricsAs of or for the year ended 
December 31, 

(in millions, except ratios)
201520142013
Credit data and qualitystatisticsNet charge-offs/(recoveries)$(19)
$(12)$(78)
Nonperforming assets:Nonaccrual loans:Nonaccrual loans retained
(a)428110163
Nonaccrual loans held-for-sale and loans at 

fair value
1011180
Total nonaccrual loans438
121343
Derivative receivables204275415
Assets acquired in loansatisfactions626780
Total nonperformingassets704
463838
Allowance for credit losses:Allowance for loanlosses1,2581,0341,096
Allowance for lending-related commitments569439525
Total allowance for creditlosses1,827
1,4731,621
Net charge-off/(recovery)rate(0.02)%(0.01)%0.07%
Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans 
retained
1.181.071.15
Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans retained, 

excluding trade finance 

and conduits(b)1.881.822.02
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonaccrual loans 

retained
(a)294940672
Nonaccrual loans to totalperiod-end loans0.400.120.32
(a) Allowance for loan losses of $177 million, $18 million and $51 million 
were held against these nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 
2013, respectively.
(b) Management uses allowance for loan losses to period-end loans retained, 
excluding trade finance and conduits, a non-GAAP financial measure, to 

provide a more meaningful assessment of CIB’s allowance coverage ratio.
 Business metricsYear ended December 31,(in millions)201520142013
Advisory$2,133
$1,627$1,315
Equity underwriting1,4341,5711,499
Debt underwriting3,1693,3723,517
Total investment banking fees$6,736
$6,570$6,331
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report97League table results – wallet shareLeague table results – volumes201520142013201520142013Year endedDecember 31,FeeShareRankings
FeeShareRankings
FeeShareRankings
Year ended

December 31,
MarketShareRankings
MarketShareRankings
MarketShareRankings
Based on fees(a)Based on volume(f)
Debt, equity andequity-relatedDebt, equity andequity-relatedGlobal7.7%#1
7.6%#18.3%#1
Global6.8%#1
6.8%#17.3%#1
U.S.11.61
10.7111.41
U.S.11.31
11.8111.91
Long-term debt
(b)Long-term debt
(b)Global8.31
8.018.21
Global6.81
6.717.21
U.S.11.91
11.7111.52
U.S.10.81
11.3111.81
Equity and equity-relatedEquity and equity-relatedGlobal(c)
7.01
7.138.42
Global(c)
7.23
7.538.22
U.S.11.11
9.6311.22
U.S.12.41
11.0212.12
M&A(d)M&A announced(d)Global8.52
8.027.52
Global30.13
20.5224.12
U.S.10.02
9.728.72
U.S.36.72
25.2336.91
Loan syndicationsLoan syndicationsGlobal7.61
9.319.91
Global10.51
12.3111.61
U.S.10.72
13.1113.81
U.S.16.8#1
19.0#117.8#1
Global Investment 
Banking fees
 (a)(e)
7.9%#1
8.0%#18.5%#1
 (a)  Source: Dealogic. Reflects the ranking of revenue wallet and market share.

 (b)  Long-term debt rankings include investment-grade, high-yield, supranationals, sovereigns, agencies, covered bonds, asset-backed securities (“ABS”) and MBS; and exclude

        money market, short-term debt, and U.S. municipal securities.

 (c)  Global equity and equity-related rankings include rights offerings and Chinese A-Shares.

 (d)  M&A and Announced M&A rankings reflect the removal of 
any withdrawn transactions. U.S. M&A revenue wallet represents wall
et from client parents based in the U.S. U.S. 
        announced M&A volumes represents any U.S. involvement ranking.

 (e)  Global investment banking fees per Dealogic exclude money market, short-term debt and shelf deals.

 (f)  Source: Dealogic. Reflects transaction volume and market share. Global announced M&A is based on transaction value at ann
ouncement; because of joint M&A 

        assignments, M&A market share of all participants will add up to more than 100%. All other transaction volume-based rankings are based on proceeds, with full credit to

        each book manager/equal if joint.
Business metricsAs of or for the year ended 

December 31, 

(in millions, except where otherwise noted)
201520142013
Market risk-related revenue – trading loss days
(a)990Assets under custody (“AUC”) by asset class (period-end) in billions:Fixed Income$12,042
$12,328$11,903
Equity6,1946,5246,913
Other(b)1,7071,6971,669
Total AUC$19,943
$20,549$20,485
Client deposits and other third party liabilities (average)
(c)
$395,297$417,369$383,667
Trade finance loans (period-end)19,25525,71330,752
(a) Market risk-related revenue is defined as the change in value of: principal transactions revenue; trading-related net inter
est income; brokerage commissions, 
underwriting fees or other revenue; and revenue from syndicated lending facilities that the Firm intends to distribute; gains and losses from DVA and FVA are 
excluded. Market risk-related revenue–trading loss days represent the number of days for which the CIB posted losses under this measure. The loss days determined 

under this measure differ from the loss days that are determined based on the disclosure of market risk-related gains and losses for the Firm in the value-at-risk 

(“VaR”) back-testing discussion on pages 135–137.
(b) Consists of mutual funds, unit investment trusts, currencies, annuities, insurance contracts, options and other contracts.

(c) Client deposits and other third party liabilities pertain to the Treasury Services and Securities Services businesses.
Management’s discussion and analysis
98JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportInternational metricsYear ended December 31,(in millions)201520142013
Total net revenue
(a)Europe/Middle East/Africa$10,894
$11,598$10,689
Asia/Pacific4,9014,6984,736
Latin America/Caribbean1,0961,1791,340
Total international net revenue16,891
17,47516,765
North America16,65117,12017,947
Total net revenue$33,542
$34,595$34,712
Loans (period-end)
(a)Europe/Middle East/Africa$24,622
$27,155$29,392
Asia/Pacific17,10819,99222,151
Latin America/Caribbean8,6098,9508,362
Total international loans50,339
56,09759,905
North America56,56940,31235,722
Total loans$106,908
$96,409$95,627
Client deposits and other third-
party liabilities (average)
(a)Europe/Middle East/Africa$141,062
$152,712$143,807
Asia/Pacific67,11166,93354,428
Latin America/Caribbean23,07022,36015,301
Total international$231,243
$242,005$213,536
North America164,054175,364170,131
Total client deposits and otherthird-party liabilities$395,297
$417,369$383,667
AUC (period-end) (in billions)
(a)North America$12,034
$11,987$11,299
All other regions7,9098,5629,186
Total AUC$19,943
$20,549$20,485
(a) Total net revenue is based predominantly on the domicile of the client or 
location of the trading desk, as applicable. Loans outstanding (excluding 
loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value), client deposits and other third-

party liabilities, and AUC are based predominantly on the domicile of the 

client.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report99COMMERCIAL BANKINGCommercial Banking delivers extensive industry 
knowledge, local
 expertise and dedicated service to 
U.S. and U.S. multinational clients, including corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and 
nonprofit entities with annual revenue generally 

ranging from $20 million to $2 billion. In addition, CB 

provides financing to real estate investors and owners. 

Partnering with the Firm’s other businesses, CB 

provides comprehensive financial solutions, including 

lending, treasury services, investment banking and 

asset management to meet its clients’ domestic and 

international financial needs.Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,
(in millions)201520142013
RevenueLending- and deposit-related fees$944
$978$1,033
Asset management, administrationand commissions8892116
All other income(a)1,3331,2791,149
Noninterest revenue2,365
2,3492,298
Net interest income4,5204,5334,794
Total net revenue
(b)6,8856,8827,092
Provision for credit losses442(189)85
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense1,2381,2031,115
Noncompensation expense1,6431,4921,495
Total noninterest expense2,881
2,6952,610
Income before income tax expense3,562
4,3764,397
Income tax expense1,3711,7411,749
Net income$2,191
$2,635$2,648
(a) Includes revenue from investment banking products and commercial card 
transactions.
(b) Total net revenue included tax-equivalent adjustments from income tax 
credits related to equity investments in designated community 
development entities that provide loans to qualified businesses in low-

income communities, as well as tax-exempt income from municipal bond 

activities of $493 million, $462 million and $407 million for the years 

ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
2015 compared with 2014
Net income was $2.2 billion, a decrease of 17% compared 

with the prior year, driven by a higher provision for credit 

losses and higher noninterest expense.
Net revenue was $6.9 billion, flat compared with the prior 
year. Net interest income was $4.5 billion, flat compared 

with the prior year, with interest income from higher loan 

balances offset by spread compression. Noninterest revenue 

was $2.4 billion, flat compared with the prior year, with 

higher investment banking revenue offset by lower lending-

related fees.
Noninterest expense was $2.9 billion, an increase of 7% 
compared with the prior year, reflecting investment in 

controls.
The provision for credit losses was $442 million, reflecting 
an increase in the allowance for credit losses for Oil & Gas 

exposure and other select downgrades. The prior year was a 

benefit of $189 million.2014 compared with 2013Net income was $2.6 billion, flat compared with the prior 

year, reflecting lower net revenue and higher noninterest 

expense, predominantly offset by a lower provision for 

credit losses.
Net revenue was $6.9 billion, a decrease of 3% compared 
with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.5 billion, a 

decrease of 5%, reflecting spread compression, the 

absence of proceeds received in the prior year from a 

lending-related workout, and 
lower purchase discounts 
recognized on loan repayments, partially offset by higher 

loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $2.3 billion, up 

2%, reflecting higher investment banking revenue, largely 

offset by business simplification and lower lending fees.
Noninterest expense was $2.7 billion, an increase of 3% 
from the prior year, largely reflecting investments in 

controls.
Management’s discussion and analysis
100JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportCB product revenue consists of the following:Lending
 includes a variety of financing alternatives, which 
are primarily provided on a secured basis; collateral 

includes receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or 

other assets. Products include term loans, revolving lines of 

credit, bridge financing, asset-based structures, leases, and 

standby letters of credit.
Treasury services
 includes revenue from a broad range of 
products and services that enable CB clients to manage 
payments and receipts, as well as invest and manage funds.
Investment banking
 includes revenue from a range of 
products providing CB clients with sophisticated capital-
raising alternatives, as well as balance sheet and risk 
management tools through advisory, equity underwriting, 
and loan syndications. Revenue from Fixed Income and 
Equity Markets products used by CB clients is also included. 
Investment banking revenue, gross, represents total 
revenue related to investment banking products sold to CB 
clients.
Other product revenue primarily includes tax-equivalent 
adjustments generated from Community Development 

Banking activities and certain income derived from principal 

transactions.
CB is divided into four primary client segments: Middle
Market Banking, Corporate Client Banking, Commercial
Term Lending, and Real Estate Banking.Middle Market Banking 
covers corporate, municipal and 
nonprofit clients, with annual revenue generally ranging 
between $20 million and $500 million.
Corporate Client Banking
 covers clients with annual 
revenue generally ranging between $500 million and $2 
billion and focuses on clients that have broader investment 

banking needs.
Commercial Term Lending
 primarily provides term 
financing to real estate investors/owners for multifamily 
properties as well as office, retail and industrial properties. 
Real Estate Banking 
provides full-service banking to 
investors and developers of institutional-grade real estate 

investment properties.
Other primarily includes lending and investment-related 
activities within the Community Development Banking 

business.Selected metricsYear ended December 31,

(in millions, except ratios)
201520142013
Revenue by productLending
(a)$3,429
$3,358$3,730
Treasury services
(a)2,5812,6812,649
Investment banking730684575
Other(a)145159138
Total Commercial Banking netrevenue$6,885
$6,882$7,092
Investment banking revenue, gross$2,179
$1,986$1,676
Revenue by client segment
Middle Market Banking
(b)$2,742
$2,791$3,015
Corporate Client Banking
(b)2,0121,9821,911
Commercial Term Lending1,2751,2521,239
Real Estate Banking494495561
Other362362366
Total Commercial Banking netrevenue$6,885
$6,882$7,092
Financial ratios
Return on common equity15%18%19%
Overhead ratio423937
(a) Effective in 2015, Commercial Card and Chase Commerce Solutions product 
revenue was transferred from Lending and Other, respectively, to Treasury 
Services. Prior period amounts were revised to conform with the current 

period presentation.
(b) Effective in 2015, mortgage warehouse lending clients were transferred 
from Middle Market Banking to Corporate Client Banking. Prior period 

revenue, period-end loans, and average loans by client segment were 

revised to conform with the current period presentation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report101Selected metrics (continued)As of or for the year endedDecember 31, (in millions,
except headcount)201520142013
Selected balance sheet data(period-end)Total assets$200,700
$195,267$190,782
Loans:Loans retained167,374147,661135,750
Loans held-for-sale andloans at fair value2678451,388
Total loans$167,641
$148,506$137,138
Core loans166,939147,392135,583
Equity14,00014,00013,500
Period-end loans by clientsegmentMiddle Market Banking
(a)$51,362
$51,009$50,702
Corporate Client Banking
(a)31,87125,32122,512
Commercial Term Lending62,86054,03848,925
Real Estate Banking16,21113,29811,024
Other5,3374,8403,975
Total Commercial Bankingloans$167,641
$148,506$137,138
Selected balance sheet data(average)Total assets$198,076
$191,857$185,776
Loans:Loans retained157,389140,982131,100
Loans held-for-sale andloans at fair value492782930
Total loans$157,881
$141,764$132,030
Core loans156,975140,390130,141
Client deposits and otherthird-party liabilities191,529204,017198,356
Equity14,00014,00013,500
Average loans by clientsegmentMiddle Market Banking
(a)$51,303
$50,939$50,236
Corporate Client Banking
(a)29,12523,11322,512
Commercial Term Lending58,13851,12045,989
Real Estate Banking14,32012,0809,582
Other4,9954,5123,711
Total Commercial Bankingloans$157,881
$141,764$132,030
Headcount
(b)7,8457,4267,016
(a) Effective in 2015, mortgage warehouse lending clients were transferred 
from Middle Market Banking to Corporate Client Banking. Prior period 
revenue, period-end loans, and average loans by client segment were 

revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(b) Effective in 2015, certain technology staff were transferred from CIB to CB; 
previously-reported headcount has been revised to conform with the 

current period presentation. As the related expense for these staff is not 

material, prior period expenses have not been revised. Prior to 2015, 

compensation expense related to this headcount was recorded in the CIB, 

with an allocation to CB (reported in noncompensation expense); 

commencing with 2015, such expense is recorded as compensation 

expense in CB and accordingly total noninterest expense related to this 

headcount in both CB and CIB remains unchanged.
Selected metrics (continued)As of or for the year endedDecember 31, (in millions, except
ratios)201520142013
Credit data and quality statisticsNet charge-offs/(recoveries)$21
$(7)$43
Nonperforming assets
Nonaccrual loans:Nonaccrual loans retained
(a)375317471
Nonaccrual loans held-for-saleand loans at fair value181443
Total nonaccrual loans393
331514
Assets acquired in loansatisfactions81015
Total nonperforming assets401
341529
Allowance for credit losses:Allowance for loan losses2,8552,4662,669
Allowance for lending-relatedcommitments198165142
Total allowance for credit losses3,053
2,6312,811
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate
(b)0.01%—%0.03%
Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans retained
1.711.671.97
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonaccrual loans retained
(a)761778567
Nonaccrual loans to period-endtotal loans0.230.220.37
(a) An allowance for loan losses of $64 million, $45 million and $81 million 
was held against nonaccrual loans retained at December 31, 2015, 2014 
and 2013, respectively.
(b) Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value were excluded when calculating 
the net charge-off/(recovery) rate.
Management’s discussion and analysis
102JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportASSET MANAGEMENTAsset Management, with client assets of $2.4 trillion, isa global leader in investment and wealth management.
AM clients include institutions, high-net-worth
individuals and retail investors in many major markets
throughout the world. AM offers investment
management across most major asset classes including
equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market
funds. AM also offers multi-asset investment
management, providing solutions for a broad range of
clients’ investment needs. For Global Wealth
Management clients, AM also provides retirement
products and services, brokerage and banking services
including trusts and estates, loans, mortgages and
deposits. The majority of AM’s client assets are in
actively managed portfolios.Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios 

and headcount)
201520142013
RevenueAsset management, administrationand commissions$9,175
$9,024$8,232
All other income388564797
Noninterest revenue9,563
9,5889,029
Net interest income2,5562,4402,376
Total net revenue12,119
12,02811,405
Provision for credit losses4465
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense5,1135,0824,875
Noncompensation expense3,7733,4563,141
Total noninterest expense8,886
8,5388,016
Income before income tax expense3,229
3,4863,324
Income tax expense1,2941,3331,241
Net income$1,935
$2,153$2,083
Revenue by line of business
Global Investment Management$6,301
$6,327$5,951
Global Wealth Management5,8185,7015,454
Total net revenue$12,119
$12,028$11,405
Financial ratios
Return on common equity21%23%23%
Overhead ratio737170
Pretax margin ratio:Global Investment Management313132
Global Wealth Management222726
Asset Management272929
Headcount20,975
19,73520,048
Number of client advisors2,7782,8362,962
2015 compared with 2014Net income was $1.9 billion, a decrease of 10% compared 

with the prior year, reflecting higher noninterest expense, 

partially offset by higher net revenue
.Net revenue was $12.1 billion, an increase of 1%. Net 

interest income was $2.6 billion, up 5%, driven by higher 

loan balances and spreads. Noninterest revenue was $9.6 

billion, flat from last year, as net client inflows into assets 

under management and the impact of higher average 

market levels were predominantly offset by lower 

performance fees and the sale of Retirement Plan Services 

(“RPS”) in 2014.
Revenue from Global Investment Management was $6.3 
billion, flat from the prior year as the sale of RPS in 2014 

and lower performance fees were largely offset by net client 

inflows. Revenue from Global Wealth Management was $5.8 

billion, up 2% from the prior year due to higher net interest 

income from higher loan balances and spreads and net 

client inflows, partially offset by 
lower brokerage revenue.
Noninterest expense was $8.9 billion, an increase of 4%, 

predominantly due to higher legal expense and investment 

in both infrastructure and controls.
2014 compared with 2013Net income was $2.2 billion, an increase of 3% from the 

prior year, reflecting higher net revenue and lower provision 

for credit losses, predominantly offset by higher noninterest 

expense.
Net revenue was $12.0 billion, an increase of 5% from the 
prior year. Noninterest revenue was $9.6 billion, up 6% 

from the prior year due to net client inflows and the effect 

of higher market levels, partially offset by lower valuations 

of seed capital investments. Net 
interest income was $2.4 
billion, up 3% from the prior year due to higher loan and 

deposit balances, largely offset by spread compression.
Revenue from Global Investment Management was $6.3 
billion, up 6% due to net client inflows and the effect of 

higher market levels, partially offset by lower valuations of 

seed capital investments. Revenue from Global Wealth 

Management was $5.7 billion, up 5% from the prior year 

due to higher net interest income from loan and deposit 

balances and net client inflows, partially offset by spread 

compression and lower brokerage revenue.
Noninterest expense was $8.5 billion, an increase of 7% 
from the prior year as the business continues to invest in 

both infrastructure and controls.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report103AM’s lines of business consist of the following:Global Investment Management
 provides comprehensive global 
investment services, including asset management, pension analytics, 

asset-liability management and active risk-budgeting strategies.
Global Wealth Management
 offers investment advice and wealth 
management, including investment management, capital markets and 

risk management, tax and estate planning, banking, lending and 

specialty-wealth advisory services.
AM’s client segments consist of the following:Private Banking
 clients include high- and ultra-high-net-worth 
individuals, families, money managers, business owners and small 

corporations worldwide.
Institutional clients include both corporate and public institutions, 
endowments, foundations, nonprofit organizations and governments 

worldwide.
Retail
 clients include financial intermediaries and individual investors.
J.P. Morgan Asset Management has two high-levelmeasures of its overall fund performance.• Percentage of mutual fund assets under management in funds 
rated 4- or 5-star:
 Mutual fund rating services rank funds based on 

their risk-adjusted performance over various periods. A 5-star rating 

is the best rating and represents the top 10% of industry-wide ranked 

funds. A 4-star rating represents the next 22.5% of industry-wide 

ranked funds. A 3-star rating represents the next 35% of industry-

wide ranked funds. A 2-star rating represents the next 22.5% of 

industry-wide ranked funds. A 1-star rating is the worst rating and 

represents the bottom 10% of industry-wide ranked funds. The 
“overall Morningstar rating
” is derived from a weighted average of the 
performance associated with a fund’s three-, five- and ten-year (if 
applicable) Morningstar Rating metrics. For U.S. domiciled funds, 

separate star ratings are given at the individual share class level. The 

Nomura 
“star rating
” is based on three-year risk-adjusted 
performance only. Funds with fewer than three years of history are 

not rated and hence excluded from this analysis. All ratings, the 

assigned peer categories and the asset values used to derive this 
analysis are sourced from these fund rating providers mentioned in 
footnote (a). The data providers re-denominate the asset values into 

U.S. dollars. This % of AUM is based on star ratings at the share class 

level for U.S. domiciled funds, and at a 
“primary share class
” level to 
represent the star rating of all other funds except for Japan where 
Nomura provides ratings at the fund level. The “primary share class”, 
as defined by Morningstar, denotes the share class recommended as 
being the best proxy for the portfolio and in most cases will be the 
most retail version (based upon annual management charge, 
minimum investment, currency and other factors). The performance 

data could have been different if all funds/accounts would have been 

included. Past performance is not indicative of future results.
• Percentage of mutual fund assets under management in funds 

ranked in the 1st or 2nd quartile (one, three and five years)
: All 
quartile rankings, the assigned peer categories and the asset values 

used to derive this analysis are sourced from the fund ranking 

providers mentioned in footnote (b). Quartile rankings are done on 

the net-of-fee absolute return of each fund. The data providers re-

denominate the asset values into U.S. dollars. This % of AUM is based 

on fund performance and associated peer rankings at the share class 

level for U.S. domiciled funds, at a 
“primary share class” level to 
represent the quartile ranking of 
the U.K., Luxembourg and Hong Kong 
funds and at the fund level for all other funds. The 
“primary share 
class”, as defined by Morningstar, denotes the share class 
recommended as being the best proxy for the portfolio and in most 

cases will be the most retail version (based upon annual management 

charge, minimum investment, currency and other factors). Where 

peer group rankings given for a fund are in more than one “primary 

share class” territory both rankings are included to reflect local 
market competitiveness (applies to “Offshore Territories” and “HK SFC 
Authorized” funds only). The performance data could have been 
different if all funds/accounts would have been included. Past 

performance is not indicative of future results.
Selected metricsAs of or for the year ended 
December 31, 
(in millions, except ranking 
data and ratios)
201520142013
% of JPM mutual fund assets rated as 4- or 5-star
(a)53%52%49%
% of JPM mutual fund assets ranked in 1
st or 2nd quartile:
(b)1 year627268
3 years787268
5 years807669
Selected balance sheet data(period-end)Total assets$131,451
$128,701$122,414
Loans
(c)
111,007104,27995,445
Core loans111,007104,27995,445
Deposits146,766155,247146,183
Equity9,0009,0009,000
Selected balance sheet data(average)Total assets$129,743
$126,440$113,198
Loans107,41899,80586,066
Core loans107,41899,80586,066
Deposits149,525150,121139,707
Equity9,0009,0009,000
Credit data and qualitystatisticsNet charge-offs$12
$6$40
Nonaccrual loans218218167
Allowance for credit losses:Allowance for loan losses266271278
Allowance for lending-related commitments555Total allowance for creditlosses271
276283
Net charge-off rate0.01%0.01%0.05%
Allowance for loan losses toperiod-end loans0.240.260.29
Allowance for loan losses tononaccrual loans122124166
Nonaccrual loans to period-end loans0.200.210.17
(a) Represents the “overall star rating” derived from Morningstar for the U.S., 
the U.K., Luxembourg, Hong Kong and Taiwan domiciled funds; and Nomura 
“star rating” for Japan domiciled funds. Includes only Global Investment 

Management retail open-ended mutual funds that have a rating. Excludes 

money market funds, Undiscovered Managers Fund, and Brazil and India 

domiciled funds.(b) Quartile ranking sourced from: Lipper for the U.S. and Taiwan domiciled 
funds; Morningstar for the U.K., Luxembourg and Hong Kong domiciled 

funds; Nomura for Japan domiciled funds and FundDoctor for South Korea 

domiciled funds. Includes only Global Investment Management retail open-

ended mutual funds that are ranked by the aforementioned sources. 

Excludes money market funds, Undiscovered Managers Fund, and Brazil 

and India domiciled funds.(c) Included $26.6 billion, $22.1 billion and $18.9 billion of prime mortgage 
loans reported in the Consumer, excluding credit card, loan portfolio at 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Management’s discussion and analysis
104JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportClient assets2015 compared with 2014
Client assets were $2.4 trillion, a decrease of 2% compared 

with the prior year. Assets under management were $1.7 

trillion, a decrease of 1% from the prior year due to the 

effect of lower market lev
els partially offset by net inflows 
to long-term products.
2014 compared with 2013
Client assets were $2.4 trillion, an increase of 2% 

compared with the prior year. Excluding the sale of 

Retirement Plan Services, client assets were up 8% 

compared with the prior year. Assets under management 

were $1.7 trillion, an increase of 9% from the prior year 

due to net inflows to long-term products and the effect of 

higher market levels.
Client assetsDecember 31, 
(in billions)201520142013
Assets by asset classLiquidity$464
$461$451
Fixed income342359330
Equity353375370
Multi-asset and alternatives564549447
Total assets under management1,723
1,7441,598
Custody/brokerage/
administration/deposits
627643745
Total client assets$2,350
$2,387$2,343
Memo:
Alternatives client assets
(a)172166158
Assets by client segment
Private Banking$437
$428$361
Institutional816827777
Retail470489460
Total assets under management$1,723
$1,744$1,598
Private Banking$1,050
$1,057$977
Institutional824835777
Retail476495589
Total client assets$2,350
$2,387$2,343
(a) Represents assets under management, as well as client balances in 
brokerage accounts.
Client assets (continued)Year ended December 31,
(in billions)201520142013
Assets under managementrollforwardBeginning balance$1,744
$1,598$1,426
Net asset flows:Liquidity(1)18(4)
Fixed income(7)338
Equity1534
Multi-asset and alternatives224248
Market/performance/other impacts(36)4886
Ending balance, December 31$1,723
$1,744$1,598
Client assets rollforwardBeginning balance$2,387
$2,343$2,095
Net asset flows2711880
Market/performance/other impacts(64)(74)168
Ending balance, December 31$2,350
$2,387$2,343
International metricsYear ended December 31,
(in billions, except where 

otherwise noted)
201520142013
Total net revenue 
(in millions)(a)Europe/Middle East/Africa$1,946
$2,080$1,881
Asia/Pacific1,1301,1991,133
Latin America/Caribbean795841879
Total international net revenue3,871
4,1203,893
North America8,2487,9087,512
Total net revenue$12,119
$12,028$11,405
Assets under managementEurope/Middle East/Africa$302
$329$305
Asia/Pacific123126132
Latin America/Caribbean454647
Total international assets undermanagement470
501484
North America1,2531,2431,114
Total assets under management$1,723
$1,744$1,598
Client assetsEurope/Middle East/Africa$351
$391$367
Asia/Pacific173174180
Latin America/Caribbean110115117
Total international client assets634
680664
North America1,7161,7071,679
Total client assets$2,350
$2,387$2,343
(a) Regional revenue is based on the domicile of the client.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report105CORPORATEThe Corporate segment consists of Treasury and ChiefInvestment Office (“CIO”) and Other Corporate, which
includes corporate staff units and expense that is
centrally managed. Treasury and CIO are
predominantly responsible for measuring, monitoring,
reporting and managing the Firm’s liquidity, funding
and structural interest rate and foreign exchange risks,
as well as executing the Firm’s capital plan. The major
Other Corporate units include Real Estate, Enterprise
Technology, Legal, Compliance, Finance, Human
Resources, Internal Audit, Risk Management, Oversight
& Control, Corporate Responsibility and various Other
Corporate groups. Other centrally managed expense
includes the Firm’s occupancy and pension-related
expenses that are subject to allocation to the
businesses.Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,
(in millions, except headcount)
201520142013
RevenuePrincipal transactions$41
$1,197$563
Securities gains19071666
All other income5697041,864
Noninterest revenue800
1,9723,093
Net interest income
(a)(533)(1,960)(3,115)
Total net revenue267
12(22)
Provision for credit losses(10)(35)(28)
Noninterest expense
(b)9771,15910,255
Loss before income tax benefit(700)
(1,112)(10,249)
Income tax benefit(3,137)(1,976)(3,493)
Net income/(loss)$2,437
$864$(6,756)
Total net revenue
Treasury and CIO(493)(1,317)(2,068)
Other Corporate 
(c)
7601,3292,046
Total net revenue$267
$12$(22)
Net income/(loss)
Treasury and CIO(235)(1,165)(1,454)
Other Corporate 
(c)
2,6722,029(5,302)
Total net income/(loss)$2,437
$864$(6,756)
Selected balance sheet data(period-end)Total assets (period-end)$768,204
$931,206$805,506
Loans2,1872,8714,004
Core loans
(d)2,1822,8483,958
Headcount29,617
26,04720,717
(a) Included tax-equivalent adjustments, predominantly due to tax-exempt 
income from municipal bond investments of $839 million, $730 million 
and $480 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 

2013, respectively.
(b) Included legal expense of $832 million, $821 million and $10.2 billion for 
the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 
(c) Effective in 2015, the Firm began including the results of Private Equity in 
the Other Corporate line within the Corporate segment. Prior period 

amounts have been revised to conform with the current period 

presentation. The Corporate segment’s balance sheets and results of 

operations were not impacted by this reporting change.
(d) Average core loans were $2.5 billion, $3.3 billion and $5.2 billion for the 
years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 
2015 compared with 2014Net income was $2.4 billion, compared with net income of 

$864 million in the prior year.
Net revenue was $267 million, compared with $12 million 
in the prior year. The current year included a $514 million 

benefit from a legal settlement. Treasury and CIO included a 

benefit of approximately $178 million associated with 

recognizing the unamortized discount on certain debt 

securities which were called at par and a $173 million 

pretax loss primarily related to accelerated amortization of 

cash flow hedges associated with the exit of certain non-

operating deposits. Private Equity gains were $1.2 billion 

lower compared with the prior year, reflecting lower 

valuation gains and lower net gains on sales as the Firm 

exits this non-core business. 
Noninterest expense was $977 million, a decrease of $182 
million from the prior year which had included a $276 

million goodwill impairment related to the sale of a portion 

of the Private Equity business. 
The current year reflected tax benefits of $2.6 billion 
predominantly from the resolution of various tax audits 

compared with tax benefits of $1.1 billion in the prior year. 
2014 compared with 2013Net income was $864 million, compared to a net loss of 

$6.8 billion in the prior year.
Net revenue was $12 million compared to a net loss of $22 
million in the prior year. Current year net interest income 

was a loss of $2 billion compared to a loss of $3.1 billion in 

the prior year, primarily reflecting higher yields on 

investment securities. Securities gains were $71 million, 

compared with $659 million in the prior year, reflecting 

lower repositioning activity of the investment securities 

portfolio in the current period.
Private Equity gains were $540 million higher compared 
with the prior year reflecting higher net gains on sales. 

Prior year net revenue also included gains of $1.3 billion 

and $493 million on the sales of Visa shares and One Chase 

Manhattan Plaza, respectively. 
Noninterest expense was $1.2 billion, a decrease of $9.1 
billion due to a decrease in reserves for litigation and 

regulatory proceedings in the prior year partially offset by 

the impact of a $276 million goodwill impairment related to 

the sale of a portion of the Private Equity business. 
Management’s discussion and analysis
106JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportTreasury and CIO
 overview
Treasury and CIO are predominantly responsible for 
measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm’s 
liquidity, funding and structural interest rate and foreign 
exchange risks, as well as executing the Firm’s capital plan
. The risks managed by Treasury and CIO arise from the 
activities undertaken by the Firm’s four major reportable 
business segments to serve their respective client bases, 
which generate both on- and off-balance sheet assets and 
liabilities.Treasury and CIO achieve the Firm’s asset-liability 
management objectives generally by investing in high-

quality securities that are managed for the longer-term as 

part of the Firm’s investment securities portfolio. Treasury 

and CIO also use derivatives to meet the Firm
’s asset-
liability management objectives. For further information on 

derivatives, see Note 6. The investment securities portfolio 

primarily consists of U.S. and non-U.S. government 

securities, agency and nonagency mortgage-backed 

securities, other asset-backed securities, corporate debt 

securities and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities. 

At December 31, 2015, the investment securities portfolio 

was $287.8 billion, and the average credit rating of the 

securities comprising the portfolio was AA+ (based upon 

external ratings where available and where not available, 

based primarily upon internal ratings that correspond to 

ratings as defined by S&P and Moody’s). See Note 12 for 

further information on the details of the Firm’s investment 

securities portfolio.
For further information on liquidity and funding risk, see 
Liquidity Risk Management on 
pages 159–164. For 
information on interest rate, foreign exchange and other 

risks, Treasury and CIO VaR and the Firm’s earnings-at-risk, 

see Market Risk Management on pages 133–139.Selected income statement and balance sheet dataAs of or for the year endedDecember 31, (in millions)201520142013
Securities gains$190
$71$659
Investment securities portfolio 
(average) 
(a)314,802349,285353,712
Investment securities portfolio 
(period–end)(b)287,777343,146347,562
Mortgage loans (average)2,5013,3085,145
Mortgage loans (period-end)2,1362,8343,779
(a) Average investment securities included held-to-maturity balances of $50.0 
billion and $47.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 
respectively. The held-to-maturity balance for full year 2013 was not 

material.(b) Period-end investment securities included held-to-maturity securities of 
$49.1 billion, $49.3 billion, $24.0 billion at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 
2013, respectively.
Private equity portfolio information
(a)December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Carrying value$2,103
$5,866$7,868
Cost3,7986,2818,491
(a) For more information on the Firm’s methodologies regarding the valuation 
of the Private Equity portfolio, see Note 3. For information on the sale of a 

portion of the Private Equity business completed on January 9, 2015, see 

Note 2.2015 compared with 2014
The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at 

December 31, 2015 was $2.1 billion, down from $5.9 

billion at December 31, 2014, driven by the sale of a 

portion of the Private Equity business. 
2014 compared with 2013The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at 

December 31, 2014 was $5.9 billion, down from $7.9 

billion at December 31, 2013. The decrease in the portfolio 

was predominantly driven by sales of investments, partially 

offset by unrealized gains.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report107ENTERPRISE-WIDE RISK MANAGEMENTRisk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase’s business 
activities. When the Firm extends a consumer or wholesale 

loan, advises customers on their investment decisions, 

makes markets in securities, or offers other products or 

services, the Firm takes on some degree of risk. The Firm’s 

overall objective is to manage its businesses, and the 

associated risks, in a manner that balances serving the 

interests of its clients, customers and investors and protects 

the safety and soundness of the Firm.
Firmwide Risk Management is overseen and managed on an 
enterprise-wide basis. The Firm’s approach to risk 

management covers a broad spectrum of risk areas, such as 

credit, market, liquidity, model, structural interest rate, 

principal, country, operational, compliance, legal, capital 

and reputation risk, with controls and governance 

established for each area, as appropriate.
The Firm believes that effective risk management requires:
• Acceptance of responsibility, including identification and 
escalation of risk issues, by all individuals within the Firm;
• Ownership of risk management within each of the lines 
of business and corporate functions; and
• Firmwide structures for risk governance.
The Firm’s Operating Committee, which consists of the 

Firm’s Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Chief Risk Officer 

(“CRO”) and other senior executives, is responsible for 

developing and executing the Firm’s risk management 

framework. The framework is intended to provide controls 

and ongoing management of key risks inherent in the Firm’s 

business activities and create a culture of transparency, 

awareness and personal responsibility through reporting, 

collaboration, discussion, escalation and sharing of 

information. The Operating Committee is responsible and 

accountable to the Firm’s Board of Directors.
The Firm strives for co
ntinual improvement through ongoing employee training and development, as well as 
talent retention. The Firm follows a disciplined and 

balanced compensation framework with strong internal 

governance and independent Board oversight. The impact 

of risk and control issues are carefully considered in the 

Firm’s performance evaluation and incentive compensation 

processes. The Firm is also engaged in a number of 

activities focused on conduct risk and in regularly 

evaluating its culture with respect to its business principles.
Management’s discussion and analysis
108JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following sections outline the key risks that are inherent in the Firm’s business activities.
RiskDefinition
Select risk management metricsPage
references
Capital riskThe risk the Firm has an insufficient level and composition of capital to support the
Firm’s business activities and associated risks during normal economic environments
and stressed conditions.Risk-based capital ratios; supplementary leverage
ratio; stress149–158Compliance
riskThe risk of failure to comply with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.Various metrics related to market conduct, BankSecrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering (“BSA/AML”),
employee compliance, fiduciary, privacy and
information risk147Country riskThe risk that a sovereign event or action alters the value or terms of contractual
obligations of obligors, counterparties and issuers or adversely affects markets
related to a particular country.Default exposure at 0% recovery; stress; risk
ratings; ratings based capital limits140–141Credit riskThe risk of loss arising from the default of a customer, client or counterparty.Total exposure; industry, geographic and customer
concentrations; risk ratings; delinquencies; loss
experience; stress112–132Legal riskThe risk of loss or imposition of damages, fines, penalties or other liability arising
from failure to comply with a contractual obligation or to comply with laws or
regulations to which the Firm is subject.Not applicable146Liquidity
riskThe risk that the Firm will be unable to meet its contractual and contingent 

obligations or that it does not have the appropriate amount, composition and tenor of 

funding and liquidity to support its assets.
LCR; stress159–164Market riskThe risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the Firm’s
assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market variables such as interest rates,
foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, implied volatilities or credit
spreads.VaR, stress, sensitivities133–139Model riskThe risk of the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect
or misused model outputs and reports.Model status, model tier142Non-U.S.
dollar
foreign
exchange
(“FX”) riskThe risk that changes in foreign exchange rates affect the value of the Firm’s assets or 
liabilities or future results.
 FX net open position (“NOP”)139OperationalriskThe risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human
factors, or due to external events that are neither market nor credit-related.Firm-specific loss experience; industry loss
experience; business environment and internal
control factors (“BEICF”); key risk indicators; key
control indicators; operating metrics144–146Principal
riskThe risk of an adverse change in the value of privately-held financial assets and
instruments, typically representing an ownership or junior capital position that have
unique risks due to their illiquidity or for which there is less observable market or
valuation data.Carrying value, stress143Reputation
riskThe risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the Firm’s 

integrity or competence by our various constituents, including clients, counterparties, 

investors, regulators, employees and the broader public.
Not applicable148Structural
interest
rate riskThe risk resulting from the Firm’s traditional banking activities (both on- and off-
balance sheet positions) arising from the extension of loans and credit facilities,
taking deposits and issuing debt (collectively referred to as “non-trading activities”),
and also the impact from the CIO investment securities portfolio and other related CIO
and Treasury activities.Earnings-at-risk138-139Risk appetite and governance
The Firm’s overall tolerance for risk is governed by a “Risk 

Appetite” framework for measuring and monitoring risk. 

The framework measures the Firm’s capacity to take risk 

against stated quantitative tolerances and qualitative 

factors at each of the line of business (“LOB”) levels, as well 

as at the Firmwide level. The framework and tolerances are 

set and approved by the Firm’s CEO, Chief Financial Officer 

(“CFO”), CRO and Chief Operating Officer (“COO”). LOB-level 

Risk Appetite parameters and tolerances are set by the 

respective LOB CEO, CFO 
and CRO and are approved by the Firm’s CEO, CFO, CRO and COO. Quantitative risk tolerances 

are expressed in terms of tolerance levels for stressed net 

income, market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, structural 

interest rate risk, operational risk and capital. Risk Appetite 

results are reported quarterly to the Risk Policy Committee 

of the Board of Directors (“DRPC”).
The Firm’s CRO is responsible for the overall direction of the 

Firm’s Risk Management functions and is head of the Risk 

Management Organization, reporting to the Firm’s CEO and 

DRPC. The Risk Management Organization operates 

independently from the revenue-generating businesses, 

which enables it to provide credible challenge to the 

businesses. The leadership team of the Risk Management 

Organization is aligned to the various LOBs and corporate 

functions as well as across the Firm for firmwide risk 

categories (e.g. firmwide market risk, firmwide model risk, 
firmwide reputation risk, etc.) producing a matrix structure 

with specific subject matter expertise to manage risks both 

within the businesses and across the Firm. 
The Firm places key reliance on each of the LOBs as the first 
line of defense in risk governance. The LOBs are 

accountable for identifying and addressing the risks in their 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report109respective businesses and for operating within a sound 
control environment.
In addition to the Risk Management Organization, the Firm’s 
control environment also includes firmwide functions like 

Oversight and Control, Compliance and Internal Audit.
The Firmwide Oversight and Control Group consists of 
dedicated control officers within each of the lines of 

business and corporate functions, as well as a central 

oversight function. The group is charged with enhancing the 

Firm’s control environment by looking within and across the 

lines of business and corporate functions to identify and 

remediate control issues. The group enables the Firm to 

detect control problems more quickly, escalate issues 

promptly and engage other stakeholders to understand 

common themes and interdependencies among the various 

parts of the Firm.
Each line of business is accountable for managing its 
compliance risk. The Firm’s Compliance Organization 

(“Compliance”), which is independent of the lines of 
business, works closely with the Operating Committee and 

management to provide independent review, monitoring 

and oversight of business operations with a focus on 

compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations 

applicable to the offering of the Firm’s products and 

services to clients and customers.
Internal Audit, a function independent of the businesses, 
Compliance and the Risk Management Organization, tests 

and evaluates the Firm’s risk governance and management, 

as well as its internal control processes. This function brings 

a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluating and 

improving the effectiveness of the Firm’s governance, risk 

management and internal control processes. 
Risk governance structure

The independent status of the Risk Management Organization is supported by a governance structure that 

provides for escalation of risk issues up to senior 

management and the Board of Directors. 
The chart below illustrates the key senior managemen
t level committees in the Firm’s risk governance structure. Other 
committees and forums are in place that are responsible for management and oversight of risk, although they are not shown in 

the chart below.  
The Board of Directors provides oversight of risk principally through the DRPC, Audit Committee and, with respect to 
compensation and other management-related matters, Compensation 
& Management Development Committee. Each 
committee of the Board oversees reputation risk issues within its scope of responsibility.
Management’s discussion and analysis
110JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe Risk Policy Committee of the Board 
oversees the Firm’s 
global risk management framework and approves the 
primary risk-management policies of the Firm. The 

Committee’s responsibilities include oversight of 

management’s exercise of its responsibility to assess and 

manage risks of the Firm, as well as its capital and liquidity 

planning and analysis. Breaches in risk appetite tolerances, 

liquidity issues that may have a material adverse impact on 

the Firm and other significant risk-related matters are 

escalated to the Committee.
The Audit Committee of the Board 
assists the Board in its oversight of management’s responsibilities to assure that 

there is an effective system of controls reasonably designed 

to safeguard the assets and income of the Firm, assure the 

integrity of the Firm’s financial statements and maintain 

compliance with the Firm’s ethical standards, policies, plans 

and procedures, and with laws and regulations. In addition, 

the Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the 

Firm’s independent registered public accounting firm’s 

qualifications and independence. The Independent Internal 

Audit Function at the Firm is headed by the General Auditor, 

who reports to the Audit Committee.
The Compensation & Management Development Committee
 assists the Board in its oversight of the Firm’s compensation 
programs and reviews and approves the Firm’s overall 

compensation philosophy, incentive compensation pools, 

and compensation practices consistent with key business 

objectives and safety and soundness. The Committee 

reviews Operating Committee members’ performance 

against their goals, and approves their compensation awards. The Committee also periodically reviews the Firm’s 

diversity programs and management development and 

succession planning, and provides oversight of the Firm’s 

culture and conduct programs.
Among the Firm’s senior management-level committees that 
are primarily responsible for key risk-related functions are:
The Firmwide Risk Committee (“FRC”)
 is the Firm’s highest 
management-level risk committee. It provides oversight of 

the risks inherent in the Firm’s businesses. The Committee is 

co-chaired by the Firm’s CEO and CRO. Members of the 

Committee include the Firm’s COO, CFO, Treasurer & Chief 

Investment Officer, and General Counsel, as well as LOB 

CEOs and CROs, and other senior managers from risk and 

control functions. This Committee serves as an escalation 

point for risk topics and issues raised by its members, the 

Line of Business Risk Committees, Firmwide Control 

Committee, Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Governance Committee, 

Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance and regional Risk 

Committees. The Committee escalates significant issues to 

the Board of Directors, as appropriate.
The Firmwide Control Committee (“FCC”) 
is a forum for senior 

management to discuss firmwide operational risks including 

existing and emerging issues, to monitor operational risk 

metrics, and to review the execution of the Operational Risk 

Management Framework (“ORMF”). The FCC is co-chaired 

by the Chief Control Officer and the Firmwide Risk Executive 

for Operational Risk Governance. It serves as an escalation 

point for the line of business, corporate functions and 

regional Control Committees and escalates significant issues 

to the FRC, as appropriate.
The Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Governance Committee 
(“FFRGC”) is a forum for risk matters related to the Firm’s 

fiduciary activities. The Committee oversees the firmwide 

fiduciary risk governance framework, which supports the 

consistent identification and escalation of fiduciary risk 

matters by the relevant lines of business or corporate 

functions responsible for managing fiduciary activities. The 

Committee escalates significant issues to the FRC and any 

other committee, as appropriate.
The Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance Group 
seeks to promote consistent management of reputation risk across 
the Firm. Its objectives are to increase visibility of 

reputation risk governance; promote and maintain a 

globally consistent governance model for reputation risk 

across lines of business; promote early self-identification of 

potential reputation risks to the Firm; and provide thought 

leadership on cross-line-of-business reputation risk issues. 

Each line of business has a separate reputation risk 

governance structure which includes, in most cases, one or 

more dedicated reputation risk committees.
Line of Business and Regional Risk Committees 
review the 
ways in which the particular line of business or the business 
operating in a particular region could be exposed to adverse 

outcomes with a focus on identifying, accepting, escalating 

and/or requiring remediation of matters brought to these 

committees. These committees may escalate to the FRC, as 

appropriate.
Line of Business, Corporate Function and Regional Control 
Committees
 oversee the control environment in the 

particular line of business or corporate function or the 

business operating in a particular region. They are 

responsible for reviewing the data indicating the quality and 

stability of the processes in a business or function, focusing 

on those processes with shortcomings and overseeing 

process remediation. These committees escalate to the FCC, 

as appropriate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report111The Asset Liability Committee (“ALCO”)
, chaired by the Firm’s 
Treasurer under the direction of the COO, monitors the 

Firm’s balance sheet, liquidity risk and structural interest 

rate risk. ALCO reviews the Firm’s overall structural interest 

rate risk position, funding requirements and strategy, and 

securitization programs (and any required liquidity support 

by the Firm of such programs). ALCO is responsible for 

reviewing and approving the Firm’s Funds Transfer Pricing 

Policy (through which lines of business “transfer” interest 

rate risk to Treasury) and the Firm’s Intercompany Funding 

and Liquidity Policy. ALCO is also responsible for reviewing 

the Firm’s Contingency Funding Plan.
The Capital Governance Committee,
 chaired by the Head of 
the Regulatory Capital Management Office (under the 

direction of the Firm’s CFO) is responsible for reviewing the 

Firm’s Capital Management Policy and the principles 

underlying capital issuance and distribution. The Committee 

is also responsible for governing the capital adequacy 

assessment process, including overall design, assumptions 

and risk streams, and for ensuring that capital stress test 

programs are designed to adequately capture the 

idiosyncratic risks across the Firm’s businesses.
The Firmwide Valuation Governance Forum (“VGF”) 
is composed of senior finance and risk executives and is 
responsible for overseeing the management of risks arising 

from valuation activities conducted across the Firm. The 

VGF is chaired by the firmwide head of the Valuation Control 

function (under the direction of the Firm’s CFO), and 

includes sub-forums covering the Corporate & Investment 

Bank, Consumer & Community Banking, Commercial 

Banking, Asset Management and certain corporate 

functions, including Treasury and Chief Investment Office.
In addition, the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board of 

Directors is responsible for the oversight of management of 

the Bank. The JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board 

accomplishes this function acting directly and through the 

principal standing committees of the Firm’s Board of 

Directors. Risk oversight on behalf of JPMorgan Chase Bank 

N.A. is primarily the responsibility of the DRPC and Audit 

Committee of the Firm’s Board of Directors and, with 

respect to compensation and other management-related 

matters, the Compensation & Management Development 

Committee of the Firm’s Board of Directors.
Risk measurementThe Firm has a broad spectrum of risk management 

metrics, as appropriate for each risk category (refer to the 

table on key risks included on page 108). Additionally, the 

Firm is exposed to certain potential low-probability, but 

plausible and material, idiosyncratic risks that are not well-

captured by its other existing risk analysis and reporting for 

credit, market, and other risks. These idiosyncratic risks 

may arise in a number of ways, such as changes in 

legislation, an unusual combination of market events, or 

specific counterparty events. The Firm has a process 

intended to identify these risks in order to allow the Firm to 

monitor vulnerabilities that are not adequately covered by 

its other standard risk measurements.
Management’s discussion and analysis
112JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportCREDIT RISK MANAGEMENTCredit risk is the risk of loss arising from the default of a 
customer, client or counterparty. The Firm provides credit 

to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and 

institutional clients to individual consumers and small 

businesses. In its consumer businesses, the Firm is exposed 

to credit risk primarily through its residential real estate, 

credit card, auto, business banking and student lending 

businesses. Originated mortgage loans are retained in the 

mortgage portfolio, securitized or sold to U.S. government 

agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises; other 

types of consumer loans are typically retained on the 

balance sheet. In its wholesale businesses, the Firm is 

exposed to credit risk through its underwriting, lending, 

market-making, and hedging activities with and for clients 

and counterparties, as well as through its operating services 

activities (such as cash management and clearing 

activities), securities financing activities, investment 

securities portfolio, and cash placed with banks. A portion 

of the loans originated or acquired by the Firm’s wholesale 

businesses are generally retained on the balance sheet; the 

Firm’s syndicated loan business distributes a significant 

percentage of originations into the market and is an 

important component of portfolio management.
Credit risk managementCredit risk management is an independent risk 

management function that identifies and monitors credit 

risk throughout the Firm and defines credit risk policies and 

procedures. The credit risk function reports to the Firm’s 

CRO. The Firm’s credit risk management governance 

includes the following activities:
• Establishing a comprehensive credit risk policy 
framework
• Monitoring and managing credit risk across all portfolio 
segments, including transaction and exposur
e approval• Setting industry concentration limits and establishing 
underwriting guidelines 
• Assigning and managing credit authorities in connection 
with the approval of all credit exposure• Managing criticized exposures and delinquent loans

• Determining the allowance for credit losses and ensuring 
appropriate credit risk-based capital management
Risk identification and measurementThe Credit Risk Management function identifies, measures, 

limits, manages and monitors credit risk across the Firm’s 

businesses. To measure credit risk, the Firm employs 

several methodologies for estimating the likelihood of 

obligor or counterparty default. Methodologies for 

measuring credit risk vary depending on several factors, 

including type of 
asset (e.g., consumer versus wholesale), 
risk measurement parameters 
(e.g., delinquency status and 
borrower’s credit score versus wholesale risk-rating) and 

risk management and collection 
processes (e.g., retail 
collection center versus centrally managed workout 

groups). Credit risk measurement is based on the 
probability of default of an obligor or counterparty, the loss 

severity given a default event and the exposure at default.
Based on these factors and related market-based inputs, 
the Firm estimates credit losses for its exposures. Probable 

credit losses inherent in the consumer and wholesale loan 

portfolios are reflected in the allowance for loan losses, and 

probable credit losses inherent in lending-related 

commitments are reflected in the allowance for lending-

related commitments. These losses are estimated using 

statistical analyses and other factors as described in Note 

15. In addition, potential and unexpected credit losses are 

reflected in the allocation of credit risk capital and 

represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to 

the established allowances for loan losses and lending-

related commitments. The analyses for these losses include 

stress testing considering alternative economic scenarios as 

described in the Stress testing section below. For further 

information, see Critical Accounting Estimates used by the 

Firm on pages 165–169.
The methodologies used to estimate credit losses depend 
on the characteristics of the credit exposure, as described 

below.
Scored exposure
The scored portfolio is generally held in CCB and 

predominantly includes residential real estate loans, credit 

card loans, certain auto and business banking loans, and 

student loans. For the scored portfolio, credit loss estimates 

are based on statistical analysis of credit losses over 

discrete periods of time. The statistical analysis uses 

portfolio modeling, credit scoring, and decision-support 

tools, which consider loan-level factors such as delinquency 

status, credit scores, collateral values, and other risk 

factors. Credit loss analyses also consider, as appropriate, 

uncertainties and other factors, including those related to 

current macroeconomic and political conditions, the quality 

of underwriting standards, and other internal and external 

factors. The factors and analysis are updated on a quarterly 

basis or more frequently as market conditions dictate.
Risk-rated exposure
Risk-rated portfolios are generally held in CIB, CB and AM, 

but also include certain business banking and auto dealer 

loans held in CCB that are risk-rated because they have 

characteristics similar to commercial loans. For the risk-

rated portfolio, credit loss estimates are based on estimates 

of the probability of default (“PD”) and loss severity given a 

default. The estimation process begins with risk ratings that 

are assigned to each loan facility to differentiate risk within 

the portfolio. These risk ratings are reviewed regularly by 

Credit Risk Management and revised as needed to reflect 

the borrower’s current financial position, risk profile and 

related collateral. The probability of default is the likelihood 

that a loan will default and not be fully repaid by the 

borrower. The loss given default (“LGD”) is the estimated 

loss on the loan that would be realized upon the default of 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report113the borrower and takes in
to consideration collateral and 
structural support for each credit facility. The probability of 
default is estimated for each borrower, and a loss given 

default is estimated for each credit facility. The calculations 

and assumptions are based on historic experience and 

management judgment and are reviewed regularly.
Stress testing
Stress testing is important in measuring and managing 

credit risk in the Firm’s credit portfolio. The process 

assesses the potential impact of alternative economic and 

business scenarios on estimated credit losses for the Firm. 

Economic scenarios, and the parameters underlying those 

scenarios, are defined centrally, are articulated in terms of 

macroeconomic factors, and applied across the businesses. 

The stress test results may indicate credit migration, 

changes in delinquency trends and potential losses in the 

credit portfolio. In addition to the periodic stress testing 

processes, management also considers additional stresses 

outside these scenarios, including industry and country- 

specific stress scenarios, as necessary. The Firm uses stress 

testing to inform decisions on setting risk appetite both at a 

Firm and LOB level, as well as to assess the impact of stress 

on individual counterparties.
Risk monitoring and management
The Firm has developed policies and practices that are 

designed to preserve the independence and integrity of the 

approval and decision-making process of extending credit to 

ensure credit risks are assessed accurately, app
roved properly, monitored regularly and managed actively at both 

the transaction and portfolio levels. The policy framework 

establishes credit approval authorities, concentration limits, 
risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review parameters and 

guidelines for management of distressed exposures. In 

addition, certain models, assumptions and inputs used in 

evaluating and monitoring credit risk are independently 

validated by groups that are separate from the line of 

businesses.For consumer credit risk, delinquency and other trends, 
including any concentrations at the portfolio level, are 

monitored, as certain of these trends can be modified 

through changes in underwriting policies and portfolio 

guidelines. Consumer Risk Management evaluates 

delinquency and other trends against business 

expectations, current and forecasted economic conditions, 

and industry benchmarks. Historical and forecasted trends 

are incorporated into the modeling of estimated consumer 

credit losses and are part of the monitoring of the credit 

risk profile of the portfolio. For further discussion of 

consumer loans, see Note 14.Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly at an aggregate 

portfolio, industry, and individual client and counterparty 

level with established concentr
ation limits that are reviewed 
and revised as deemed appropriate by management, 

typically on an annual basis. Industry and counterparty 

limits, as measured in terms of exposure and economic risk 

appetite, are subject to stress-based loss constraints. In 

addition, wrong-way risk — the risk that exposure to a 

counterparty is positively correlated with the impact of a 

default by the same counterparty, which could cause 
exposure to increase at the same time as the counterparty’s 

capacity to meet its obligations is decreasing — is actively 

monitored as this risk could result in greater exposure at 

default compared with a transaction with another 

counterparty that does not have this risk.
Management of the Firm’s wholesale credit risk exposure is 
accomplished through a number of means, including:
• Loan underwriting and credit approval process

• Loan syndications and participations

• Loan sales and securitizations

• Credit derivatives

• Master netting agreements

• Collateral and other risk-reduction techniques
In addition to Credit Risk Management, Internal Audit 
performs periodic exams, as well as continuous reviews, 

where appropriate, of the Firm’s consumer and wholesale 

portfolios. For risk-rated portfolios, a Credit Review group 

within Internal Audit is responsible for:
• Independently assessing and validating the changing risk 
grades assigned to exposures; and
• Evaluating the effectiveness of business units’ risk 
ratings, including the accuracy and consistency of risk 
grades, the timeliness of risk grade changes and the 

justification of risk grades in credit memoranda.
Risk reporting

To enable monitoring of credit risk and effective decision-

making, aggregate credit exposure, credit quality forecasts, 

concentration levels and risk profile changes are reported 

regularly to senior members of Credit Risk Management. 

Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer, product 

and geographic concentrations occurs monthly, and the 

appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is 

reviewed by senior management at least on a quarterly 

basis. Through the risk reporting and governance structure, 

credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided 

regularly to, and discussed with, risk committees, senior 

management and the Board of Directors as appropriate.
Management’s discussion and analysis
114JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportCREDIT PORTFOLIOIn the following tables, reported loans include loans 
retained (i.e., held-for-investment); loans held-for-sale 

(which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, with 

valuation changes recorded in noninterest revenue); and 

certain loans accounted for at fair value. In addition, the 

Firm records certain loans accounted for at fair value in 

trading assets. For further information regarding these 

loans, see Note 3 and Note 4. For additional information on 

the Firm’s loans and derivative receivables, including the 

Firm’s accounting policies, see Note 14 and Note 6, 

respectively. For further information regarding the credit 

risk inherent in the Firm’s cash placed with banks, 

investment securities portfolio, and securities financing 

portfolio, see Note 5, Note 12, and Note 13, respectively.
Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm no longer includes 
within its disclosure of wholesale lending-related 

commitments the unused amount of advised uncommitted 

lines of credit as it is within the Firm’s discretion whether or 

not to make a loan under these lines, and the Firm’s 

approval is generally required prior to funding. Prior period 

amounts have been revised to conform with the current 

period presentation.
For discussion of the consumer credit environment and 
consumer loans, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 

115–121 and Note 14. For discussion of wholesale credit 

environment and wholesale loans, see Wholesale Credit 

Portfolio on pages 122–129 and Note 14.
Total credit portfolio
December 31,
(in millions)Credit exposureNonperforming
(b)(c)
2015201420152014Loans retained$832,792
$747,508
$6,303
$7,017
Loans held-for-sale1,6467,21710195Loans at fair value2,8612,6112521Total loans – reported837,299
757,3366,4297,133Derivative receivables59,67778,975204275Receivables fromcustomers and other13,49729,080——Total credit-relatedassets910,473865,3916,6337,408Assets acquired in loansatisfactionsReal estate ownedNANA347515OtherNANA5444Total
 assets acquired in 
loan satisfactions
NANA401559Total assets910,473865,3917,0347,967Lending-relatedcommitments940,395950,997193103Total credit portfolio$1,850,868
$1,816,388
$7,227
$8,070
Credit derivatives used in 
credit portfolio 

management activities
(a)$(20,681)
$(26,703)
$(9)
$—Liquid securities and othercash collateral held
against derivatives(16,580)(19,604)NANAYear ended December 31,

(in millions, except ratios)
20152014Net charge-offs$4,086
$4,759
Average retained loansLoans – reported780,293729,876Loans – reported, excluding 

  residential real estate PCI loans
736,543679,869Net charge-off ratesLoans – reported0.52%
0.65%
Loans – reported, excluding PCI0.550.70(a) Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold through 
credit derivatives used to manage both performing and nonperforming wholesale 
credit exposures; these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under 
U.S. GAAP. For additional information, see Credit derivatives on page 129 and 
Note 6.(b) Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI 
loans as each of the pools is performing.
(c) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) mortgage 
loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.3 billion and $7.8 billion, 
respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; (2) student loans insured by U.S. 
government agencies under the FFELP of $290 million and $367 million, 
respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; and (3) REO insured by U.S. 
government agencies of $343 million and $462 million, respectively. These 
amounts have been excluded based upon the government guarantee. In addition, 
the Firm’s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on 
nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the Federal 
Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”).
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report115CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIOThe Firm’s consumer portfolio consists primarily of 
residential real estate loans, credit card loans, auto loans, 

business banking loans, and student loans. The Firm’s focus 

is on serving the prime segment of the consumer credit 

market. The credit performance of the consumer portfolio 

continues to benefit from discipline in credit underwriting as 

well as improvement in the economy driven by increasing 

home prices and lower unemployment. Both early-stage 
delinquencies (30–89 days delinquent) and late-stage 

delinquencies (150+ days delinquent) for residential real 

estate, excluding government guaranteed loans, declined 

from December 31, 2014 levels. The Credit Card 30+ day 

delinquency rate and the net charge-off rate remain near 

historic lows. For further information on consumer loans, 

see Note 14.The following table presents consumer credit-related information with respect to the credit portfolio held by CCB, prime 

mortgage and home equity loans held by AM, and prime mortgage loans held by Corpora
te. For further information about the 
Firm’s nonaccrual and charge-off accounting policies, see Note 14.
Consumer credit portfolioAs of or for the year ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
Credit exposureNonaccrual loans
(g)(h)Net charge-offs/
(recoveries)
(i)Average annual net 
charge-off/(recovery) 
rate
(i)(j)
20152014201520142015201420152014Consumer, excluding credit cardLoans, excluding PCI loans and loans held-for-saleHome equity – senior lien$14,848
$16,367
$867
$938
$69
$82
0.43%
0.50%
Home equity – junior lien30,71136,3751,3241,5902223910.671.03Prime mortgage, including option ARMs162,549104,9211,7522,19049390.040.04Subprime mortgage3,6905,0567511,036(53)
(27)
(1.22)(0.43)Auto
(a)60,25554,5361161152141810.380.34Business banking21,20820,0582632792533051.231.58Student and other10,09610,9702422702003471.893.07Total loans, excluding PCI loans and loans held-for-sale303,357248,2835,3156,4189541,3180.350.55Loans – PCIHome equity14,98917,095—NA—NA—NAPrime mortgage8,89310,220—NA—NA—NASubprime mortgage3,2633,673—NA—NA—NAOption ARMs(b)13,85315,708—NA—NA—NATotal loans – PCI40,99846,696—NA—NA—NATotal loans – retained344,355294,9795,3156,4189541,3180.300.46Loans held-for-sale466(f)395(f)9891————Total consumer, excluding credit card loans344,821295,3745,4136,5099541,3180.300.46Lending-related commitments
(c)
58,47858,153Receivables from customers
(d)125108Total consumer exposure, excluding credit card403,424353,635Credit CardLoans retained
(e)
131,387128,027——3,1223,4292.512.75Loans held-for-sale763,021——————Total credit card loans131,463131,048——3,1223,4292.512.75Lending-related commitments
(c)
515,518525,963Total credit card exposure646,981657,011Total consumer credit portfolio$1,050,405
$1,010,646
$5,413
$6,509
$4,076
$4,747
0.92%
1.15%
Memo: Total consumer credit portfolio, excluding PCI$1,009,407
$963,950
$5,413
$6,509
$4,076
$4,747
1.02%
1.30%
(a) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, excluded operating lease assets of $9.2 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively.
(b) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, approximately 64% and 57% of the PCI option ARMs portfolio has been modified into fixed-rate, fully amortizing loans, 
respectively.
(c) Credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total available lines of credit for these products. T
he Firm has not experienced, and 
does not anticipate, that all available lines of credit would be used at the same time. For credit card and home equity commitm
ents (if certain conditions are 
met), the Firm can reduce or cancel these lines of credit by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by la
w, without notice.
(d) Receivables from customers represent margin loans to retail brokerage customers, and are included in Accrued interest and a
ccounts receivable on the 
Consolidated balance sheets.
(e) Includes accrued interest and fees net of an allowance f
or the uncollectible portion of accrued interest and fee income.
(f) Predominantly represents prime mortgage loans held-for-sale.
Management’s discussion and analysis
116JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report(g) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, nonaccrual loans excluded: (1) mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.3 billion and $7.8 billion, 
respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; and (2) student loans insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP of $
290 million and $367 million, respectively, that are 90 or more days past due. These amounts have been excluded from nonaccrual loans based upon the
 government guarantee. In 
addition, credit card loans are generally exempt from being placed on nonaccrual status, as permitted by regulatory guidance.
(h) Excludes PCI loans. The Firm is recognizing interest income on each pool of PCI loans as each of the pools is performing.
(i) Net charge-offs and net charge-off rates excluded $208 million and $533 million of write-offs of prime mortgages in the PCI portfolio for the years ended 
December 31, 2015 and 2014. These write-offs decreased the allowance for loan losses for PCI loans. See Allowance for Credit Lo
sses on pages 130–132 for 
further details.
(j) Average consumer loans held-for-sale were $2.1 billion and $917 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 201
5 and 2014. These amounts were excluded when calculating net charge-off rates.
Consumer, excluding credit card
Portfolio analysis

Consumer loan balances increased during the year ended 

December 31, 2015, predominantly due to originations of 

high-quality prime mortgage loans that have been retained, 

partially offset by paydowns and the charge-off or 

liquidation of delinquent loans. Credit performance has 

continued to improve across most portfolios as the economy 
strengthened and home prices increased.
PCI loans are excluded from the following discussions of 
individual loan products and are addressed separately 

below. For further information about the Firm’s consumer 

portfolio, including information about delinquencies, loan 

modifications and other credit quality indicators, see 

Note 14.Home equity:
 The home equity portfolio declined from 
December 31, 2014 primarily reflecting loan paydowns and 

charge-offs. Both early-stage and late-stage delinquencies 

declined from December 31, 2014. Net charge-offs for both 

senior and junior lien home equity loans at December 31, 

2015, declined when compared with the prior year as a 

result of improvement in home prices and delinquencies, 

but charge-offs remain elevated compared with pre-

recessionary levels.
At December 31, 2015, approximately 15% of the Firm’s 
home equity portfolio consists of home equity loans 

(“HELOANs”) and the remainder consists of home equity 

lines of credit (“HELOCs”). HELOANs are generally fixed-

rate, closed-end, amortizing loans, with terms ranging from 

3–30 years. Approximately 60% of the HELOANs are senior 
lien loans and the remainder are junior lien loans. In 
general, HELOCs originated by the Firm are revolving loans 
for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC recasts 
into a loan with a 20-year amortization period. At the time 
of origination, the borrower typically selects one of two 
minimum payment options that will generally remain in 
effect during the revolving period: a monthly payment of 
1% of the outstanding balance, or interest-only payments 
based on a variable index (typically Prime). HELOCs 
originated by Washington Mutual were generally revolving 
loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC 
converts to an interest-only loan with a balloon payment at 
the end of the loan’s term.
The unpaid principal balance of HELOCs outstanding was 
$41 billion at December 31, 2015. Since January 1, 2014, 
approximately $8 billion of HELOCs have recast from 
interest-only to fully amortizing payments; based upon 
contractual terms, approximately $19 billion is scheduled 
to recast in the future, consisting of $7 billion in 2016, $6 
billion in 2017 and $6 billion in 2018 and beyond. 
However, of the total $19 billion scheduled to recast in the 
future, $13 billion is expected to actually recast; and the 
remaining $6 billion represents loans to borrowers who are 
expected to pre-pay or loans that are likely to charge-off 
prior to recast. The Firm has considered this payment recast 

risk in its allowance for loan losses based upon the 

estimated amount of payment shock (i.e., the excess of the 

fully-amortizing payment over the interest-only payment in 

effect prior to recast) expected to occur at the payment 

recast date, along with the corresponding estimated 

probability of default and loss severity assumptions. Certain 

factors, such as future developments in both unemployment 

rates and home prices, could have a significant impact on 

the performance of these loans.
The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving 
period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent 

permitted by law when borrowers are exhibiting a material 

deterioration in their credit risk profile. The Firm will 

continue to evaluate both the near-term and longer-term 

repricing and recast risks inherent in its HELOC portfolio to 

ensure that changes in the Firm’s estimate of incurred 

losses are appropriately considered in the allowance for 

loan losses and that the Firm’s account management 

practices are appropriate given the portfolio’s risk profile.
High-risk seconds are junior lien loans where the borrower 
has a senior lien loan that is either delinquent or has been modified. Such loans are considered to pose a higher risk of 
default than junior lien loans for which the senior lien loan 
is neither delinquent nor modified. The Firm estimates the 
balance of its total exposure to high-risk seconds on a 
quarterly basis using internal data and loan level credit 
bureau data (which typically provides the delinquency 
status of the senior lien loan). The estimated balance of these high-risk seconds may vary from quarter to quarter 
for reasons such as the movement of related senior lien 
loans into and out of the 30+ day delinquency bucket.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report117Current high-risk secondsDecember 31, (in billions)20152014Junior liens subordinate to:Modified current senior lien$0.6
$0.7
Senior lien 30 – 89 days delinquent0.40.5Senior lien 90 days or more delinquent
(a)0.40.6Total current high-risk seconds$1.4
$1.8
(a) Junior liens subordinate to senior liens that are 90 days or more past 
due are classified as nonaccrual loans. At December 31, 2015 and 
2014, excluded approximately $25 million and $50 million, 
respectively, of junior liens that are performing but not current, which 

were placed on nonaccrual in accordance with the regulatory 

guidance.
Of the estimated $1.4 billion of current high-risk junior 

liens at December 31, 2015, the Firm owns approximately 

10% and services approximately 25% of the related senior 

lien loans to the same borrowers. The increased probability 

of default associated with these higher-risk junior lien loans 

was considered in estimating the allowance for loan losses.
Mortgage:
 Prime mortgages, including option ARMs and 
loans held-for-sale, increased from December 31, 2014 due 

to originations of high-quality prime mortgage loans that 

have been retained partially offset by paydowns, the run-off 
of option ARM loans and the charge-off or liquidation of 
delinquent loans. High-quality loan originations for the year 

ending December 31, 2015 included both jumbo and 
conforming loans, primarily consisting of fixed interest rate 
loans. Excluding loans insured by U.S. government agencies, 

both early-stage and late-stage delinquencies declined from 
December 31, 2014. Nonaccrual loans decreased from the 
prior year but remain elevated primarily as a result of loss 

mitigation activities. Net charge-offs remain low, reflecting 

continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies.At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm’s prime 

mortgage portfolio included $11.1 billion and $12.4 billion, 

respectively, of mortgage loans insured and/or guaranteed 

by U.S. government agencies, of which $8.4 billion and $9.7 
billion, respectively, were 30 days or more past due (of 
these past due loans, $6.3 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively, were 90 days or more past due). In 2014, the 
Firm entered into a settlement regarding loans insured 
under federal mortgage insurance programs overseen by 
the Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”), the U.S. 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”), 
and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”); the 
Firm will continue to monitor exposure on future claim 
payments for government insured loans, but any financial 
impact related to exposure on future claims is not expected 
to be significant and was considered in estimating the 
allowance for loan losses.
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm’s prime 
mortgage portfolio included $17.7 billion and $16.3 billion, 

respectively, of interest-only loans, which represented 11% 

and 15%, respectively, of the prime mortgage portfolio. 

These loans have an interest-only payment period generally 

followed by an adjustable-rate or fixed-rate fully amortizing 

payment period to maturity and are typically originated as 

higher-balance loans to higher-income borrowers. To date, 

losses on this portfolio generally have been consistent with 

the broader prime mortgage portfolio and the Firm’s 

expectations. The Firm continues to monitor the risks 

associated with these loans.Subprime mortgages continued to decrease due to portfolio 
runoff. Early-stage and late-stage delinquencies have 

improved from December 31, 2014. Net charge-offs 

continued to improve as a result of improvement in home prices and delinquencies.
Auto
: Auto loans increased from December 31, 2014, as 
new originations outpaced paydowns and payoffs. 

Nonaccrual loans were stable compared with December 31, 

2014. Net charge-offs for the year ended December 31, 

2015 increased compared with the prior year, as a result of 

higher loan balances and a moderate increase in loss 

severity. The auto loan portfolio predominantly consists of 

prime-quality credits.
Business banking: 
Business banking loans increased from 
December 31, 2014 due to an increase in loan originations. 

Nonaccrual loans declined from December 31, 2014 and 

net charge-offs for the year ended December 31, 2015 

decreased from the prior year due to continued discipline in 

credit underwriting.
Student and other: 
Student and other loans decreased from 
December 31, 2014 due primarily to the run-off of the 
student loan portfolio as the Firm ceased originations of 

student loans during the fourth quarter of 2013. 

Nonaccrual loans and net charge-offs also declined as a 

result of the run-off of the student loan portfolio.
Purchased credit-impaired loans: 
PCI loans acquired in the 
Washington Mutual transaction decreased as the portfolio 
continues to run off.
As of December 31, 2015, approximately 14% of the 
option ARM PCI loans were delinquent and approximately 

64% of the portfolio has been modified into fixed-rate, fully 

amortizing loans. Substantially all of the remaining loans 

are making amortizing payments, although such payments 

are not necessarily fully amortizing. This latter group of 

loans is subject to the risk of payment shock due to future 

payment recast. Default rates generally increase on option 

ARM loans when payment recast results in a payment 

increase. The expected increase in default rates is 

considered in the Firm’s quarterly impairment assessment.
Management’s discussion and analysis
118JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table provides a summary of lifetime principal loss estimates included in either the nonaccretable difference or 
the allowance for loan losses.
Summary of lifetime principal loss estimatesDecember 31, (in billions)Lifetime loss estimates
(a)LTD liquidation losses
(b)2015201420152014Home equity$14.5
$14.6
$12.7
$12.4
Prime mortgage
4.03.83.73.5Subprime mortgage3.33.33.02.8Option ARMs10.09.99.59.3Total$31.8
$31.6
$28.9
$28.0
(a) Includes the original nonaccretable difference established in purchase accounting of $30.5 billion for principal losses plus additional principal losses recognized 
subsequent to acquisition through the provision and allowance for loan losses. The remaining nonaccretable difference for princ
ipal losses was $1.5 billion and $2.3 
billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
(b) Life-to-date (“LTD”) liquidation losses represent both realization of loss upon loan resolution and any principal forgiven upon modification.
For further information on the Firm’s PCI loans, including write-offs, see Note 14.
Geographic composition of residential real estate loans
At December 31, 2015, $123.0 billion, or 61% of total retained residential real estate loan portfolio, excluding mortgage 

loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, were concentrated in California, New York, Illinois, Texas and Florida
, compared with $94.3 billion, or 63%, at December 31, 2014. Calif
ornia had the greatest concentration of retained residential 
loans with 28% at December 31, 2015, compared with 26% at December 31, 2014. The unpaid principal balance of PCI loans 

concentrated in these five states represented 74% of 
total PCI loans at both December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014. For 
further information on the geographic composition of the Firm’s residential real estate loans, see Note 14.
      
Current estimated loan-to-values (“LTVs”) of 

residential real estate loans
The current estimated average LTV ratio for residential real 

estate loans retained, excluding mortgage loans insured by 

U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, was 59% at both 

December 31, 2015 and 2014.Although home prices continue to recover, the decline in

home prices since 2007 has had a significant impact on the 
collateral values underlying the Firm’s residential real 

estate loan portfolio. In general, the delinquency rate for 

loans with high LTV ratios is greater than the delinquency 

rate for loans in which the borrower has greater equity in 

the collateral. While a large portion of the loans with 

current estimated LTV ratios greater than 100% continue 

to pay and are current, the continued willingness and ability 

of these borrowers to pay remains a risk.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report119The following table presents the current estimated LTV ratios for PCI loans, as well as the ratios of the carrying value of the
 underlying loans to the current estimated collateral value. Because such loans were initially measured at fair value, the ratio
s of the carrying value to the current estimated collateral value will be lower than the current estimated LTV ratios, which are 
based on the unpaid principal balances. The estimated collateral values used to calculate these ratios do not represent actual 

appraised loan-level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed 
as estimates.LTV ratios and ratios of carrying values to current estimated collateral values – PCI loans20152014December 31,
(in millions, 
except ratios)
UnpaidprincipalbalanceCurrent 
estimated LTV ratio
(a)(b)Net carrying 
value
(d)Ratio of netcarrying value
to current 
estimated collateral value
(b)(d)Unpaid principal balanceCurrent 
estimated LTV ratio
(a)(b)Net carrying 
value
(d)Ratio of netcarrying value
to current 
estimated collateral value
(b)(d)Home equity$15,34273%
(c)$13,281
68%(e)$17,74078%
(c)$15,337
73%(e)Prime mortgage8,919667,90858
10,249719,02763
Subprime mortgage4,051733,26359
4,652793,49359
Option ARMs14,3536413,80462
16,4966915,51465
(a) Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current propert
y values are estimated at least quarterly 
based on home valuation models that utilize nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates; such models incorporate
 actual data to the extent available 
and forecasted data where actual data is not available.
(b) Effective December 31, 2015, the current estimated LTV ratios and the ratios of net carrying value to current estimated col
lateral value reflect updates to the 
nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporated into the Firm’s home valuation models. The prior period
 ratios have been revised to 
conform with these updates in the home price index.
(c) Represents current estimated combined LTV for junior home equity liens, which considers all available lien positions, as we
ll as unused lines, related to the property. 
All other products are presented without consideration of subordinate liens on the property.
(d) Net carrying value includes the effect of fair value adjustments that were applied to the consumer PCI portfolio at the date of acquisition and is also net of the 
allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2015 and 2014 of $985 million and $1.2 billion for prime mortgage, $49 million and $1
94 million for option ARMs, $1.7 
billion and $1.8 billion for home equity, respectively, and $180 million for subprime mortgage at December 31, 2014. There was 
no allowance for loan losses for 
subprime mortgage at December 31, 2015. 
(e) The current period ratio has been updated to include the effect of any outstanding senior lien related to a property for which the Firm holds the junior home equity 
lien. The prior period ratio has been revised to conform with the current presentation. 
The current estimated average LTV ratios were 65% and 
78% for California and Florida PCI loans, respectively, at 

December 31, 2015, compared with 71% and 85%, 

respectively, at December 31, 2014. Average LTV ratios 

have declined consistent with recent improvements in home 

prices as well as a result of loan pay downs. Although home 

prices have improved, home prices in most areas of 

California and Florida are still lower than at the peak of the 

housing market; this continues to negatively affect current 

estimated average LTV ratios and the ratio of net carrying 

value to current estimated collateral value for loans in the 

PCI portfolio. Of the total PCI portfolio, 6% of the loans had 

a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 1% 

had a current LTV ratio of greater than 125% at 

December 31, 2015, compared with 10% and 2%, 

respectively, at December 31, 2014.
While the current estimated collateral value is greater than 
the net carrying value of PCI loans, the ultimate 

performance of this portfolio is highly dependent on 

borrowers’ behavior and ongoing ability and willingness to 

continue to make payments on homes with negative equity, 

as well as on the cost of alternative housing.
For further information on current estimated LTVs of 
residential real estate loans, see Note 14.
Loan modification activities – residential real estate loans
The performance of modified loans generally differs by 

product type due to differences in both the credit quality 

and the types of modifications provided. Performance 
metrics for modifications to the residential real estate 

portfolio, excluding PCI loans, that have been seasoned 

more than six months show w
eighted-average redefault rates of 20% for senior lien home equity, 22% for junior 

lien home equity, 17% for prime mortgages including 

option ARMs, and 29% for subprime mortgages. The 

cumulative performance metrics for modifications to the 

PCI residential real estate portfolio that have been seasoned 

more than six months show w
eighted average redefault 
rates of 20% for home equity, 19% for prime mortgages, 

16% for option ARMs and 33% for subprime mortgages. 

The favorable performance of the PCI option ARM 

modifications is the result of a targeted proactive program 

which fixed the borrower’s payment to the amount at the 

point of modification. The cumulative redefault rates reflect 

the performance of modifications completed under both the 

U.S. Government’s Home Affordable Modification Program 

(“HAMP”) and the Firm’s proprietary modification programs 

(primarily the Firm’s modification program that was 

modeled after HAMP) from October 1, 2009, through 

December 31, 2015.Certain loans that were modified under HAMP and the 
Firm’s proprietary modification programs have interest rate 

reset provisions (“step-rate modifications”). Interest rates 

on these loans generally began to increase in 2014 by 1% 

per year and will continue to do so, until the rate reaches a 

specified cap, typically at a prevailing market interest rate 

for a fixed-rate loan as of the modification date. The 
Management’s discussion and analysis
120JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportcarrying value of non-PCI loans modified in step-rate 
modifications was $4 billion at December 31, 2015, with 
$447 million that experienced the initial interest rate 

increase in 2015 and $1 billion that is scheduled to 

experience the initial interest rate increase in each of 2016 

and 2017. The unpaid principal balance of PCI loans 
modified in step-rate modifications was $10 billion at 

December 31, 2015, with $1 billion that experienced the 

initial interest rate increase in 2015, and $3 billion and $2 

billion scheduled to experience the initial interest rate 

increase in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The Firm 

continues to monitor this risk exposure to ensure that it is 

appropriately considered in the allowance for loan losses.
The following table presents information as of 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, relating to modified 

retained residential real estate loans for which concessions 

have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial 

difficulty. Modifications of PCI loans continue to be 

accounted for and reported as PCI loans, and the impact of 

the modification is incorporated into the Firm’s quarterly 

assessment of estimated future cash flows. Modifications of 

consumer loans other than PCI loans are generally 

accounted for and reported as TDRs. For further 

information on modifications for the years ended 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, see Note 14.Modified residential real estate loans20152014December 31,
(in millions)RetainedloansNonaccrual retained
loans(d)RetainedloansNonaccrual retained
 loans(d)Modified residential real 
estate loans, excluding 

PCI loans(a)(b)Home equity – senior lien$1,048$581
$1,101$628
Home equity – junior lien1,310639
1,304632
Prime mortgage,including option ARMs4,8261,287
6,1451,559
Subprime mortgage1,864670
2,878931
Total modifiedresidential real estate
loans, excluding PCI
loans$9,048$3,177
$11,428$3,750
Modified PCI loans(c)
Home equity$2,526NA
$2,580NA
Prime mortgage5,686NA
6,309NA
Subprime mortgage3,242NA
3,647NA
Option ARMs10,427NA
11,711NA
Total modified PCI loans$21,881NA
$24,247NA
(a) Amounts represent the carrying value of modified residential real estate loans.
(b) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, $3.8 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, of 
loans modified subsequent to repurchase from Ginnie Mae in accordance with 
the standards of the appropriate government agency (i.e., FHA, VA, RHS) are not 
included in the table above. When such loans perform subsequent to 
modification in accordance with Ginnie Mae guidelines, they are generally sold 
back into Ginnie Mae loan pools. Modified loans that do not re-perform become 
subject to foreclosure. For additional information about sales of loans in 
securitization transactions with Ginnie Mae, see Note 16.
(c) Amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of modified PCI loans.
(d) As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, nonaccrual loans included $2.5 billion and 
$2.9 billion, respectively, of TDRs for which the borrowers were less than 90 
days past due. For additional information about loans modified in a TDR that are 
on nonaccrual status, see Note 14.Nonperforming assets
The following table presents information as of 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, about consumer, excluding 

credit card, nonperforming assets.
Nonperforming assets
(a)December 31, (in millions)20152014Nonaccrual loans
(b)Residential real estate$4,792
$5,845
Other consumer621664Total nonaccrual loans5,413
6,509Assets acquired in loan satisfactionsReal estate owned277437Other4836Total assets acquired in loan satisfactions325
473Total nonperforming assets$5,738
$6,982
(a) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, nonperforming assets excluded: (1) mortgage 
loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $6.3 billion and $7.8 billion, 
respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; (2) student loans insured by U.S. 
government agencies under the FFELP of $290 million and $367 million, 
respectively, that are 90 or more days past due; and (3) real estate owned 
insured by U.S. government agencies of $343 million and $462 million, 
respectively. These amounts have been excluded based upon the government 
guarantee. 
(b) Excludes PCI loans that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual 
transaction, which are accounted for on a pool basis. Since each pool is 
accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an 
aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of the pools, or that of 
individual loans within the pools, is not meaningful. Because the Firm is 
recognizing interest income on each pool of loans, each pool is considered to be 
performing.
Nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolio 
totaled $4.8 billion and $5.8 billion at December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively, of which 
31% and 32%, respectively, were greater than 150 days past due. In the 
aggregate, the unpaid principal balance of residential real 

estate loans greater than 150 days past due was charged 

down by approximately 44% and 50% to the estimated net 

realizable value of the collateral at December 31, 2015 and 

2014, respectively. 
Active and suspended foreclosure:
 For information on 
loans that were in the process of active or suspended 
foreclosure, see Note 14.
Nonaccrual loans: 
The following table presents changes in 
the consumer, excluding credit card, nonaccrual loans for 

the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014.
Nonaccrual loansYear ended December 31,(in millions)20152014Beginning balance$6,509
$7,496
Additions3,6624,905Reductions:Principal payments and other
(a)1,6681,859Charge-offs8001,306Returned to performing status1,7252,083Foreclosures and other liquidations565644Total reductions4,758
5,892Net additions/(reductions)(1,096)
(987)Ending balance$5,413
$6,509
(a) Other reductions includes loan sales.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report121Credit Card
Total credit card loans increased from December 31, 2014 
due to higher new account originations and increased credit 

card sales volume partially offset by sales of non-core loans 

and the transfer of commercial card loans to the CIB. The 

30+ day delinquency rate decreased to 1.43% at 

December 31, 2015, from 1.44% at December 31, 2014. 

For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the net 

charge-off rates were 2.51% and 2.75%, respectively. The 

Credit Card 30+ day delinquency rate and net charge-off 

rate remain near historic lows. Charge-offs have improved 

compared to a year ago due to continued discipline in credit 

underwriting as well 
as improvement in the economy driven by lower unemployment. The credit card portfolio continues 

to reflect a well-seasoned, largely rewards-based portfolio 

that has good U.S. geographic diversification. 
Loans outstanding in the top five states of California, Texas, 

New York, Florida and Illinois consisted of $57.5 billion in 

receivables, or 44% of the retained loan portfolio, at 

December 31, 2015, compared with $54.9 billion, or 43%, 

at December 31, 2014. The greatest geographic 

concentration of credit card retained loans is in California, 

which represented 14% of total retained loans at both 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For further 

information on the geographic composition of the Firm’s 

credit card loans, see Note 14.
      Modifications of credit card loans

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm had $1.5 billion 

and $2.0 billion, respectively, of credit card loans 

outstanding that have been modified in TDRs. These 

balances included both credit card loans with modified 

payment terms and credit card loans that reverted back to 

their pre-modification payment terms because the 

cardholder did not comply with the modified payment 

terms. The decrease in modified credit card loans 

outstanding from December 31, 2014, was attributable to a 

reduction in new modifications as well as ongoing payments 

and charge-offs on previously modified credit card loans. 
Consistent with the Firm’s policy, all credit card loans 

typically remain on accrual status until charged off. 

However, the Firm establishes an allowance, which is offset 

against loans and charged to interest income, for the 

estimated uncollectible portion of accrued interest and fee 

income.
For additional information about loan modification 
programs to borrowers, see Note 14.
Management’s discussion and analysis
122JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportWHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIOThe Firm’s wholesale businesses are exposed to credit risk 
through underwriting, lending, market-making, and hedging 

activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as 

through various operating services such as cash 

management and clearing activities. A portion of the loans 

originated or acquired by the Firm’s wholesale businesses is 

generally retained on the balance sheet. The Firm 

distributes a significant percentage of the loans it originates 

into the market as part of its syndicated loan business and 

to manage portfolio concentrations and credit risk.
The wholesale credit portfolio, excluding Oil & Gas, 
continued to be generally stable throughout 2015, 

characterized by low levels of criticized exposure, 

nonaccrual loans and charge-offs. Growth in loans retained 

was driven by increased client activity, notably in 

commercial real estate. Discipline in underwriting across all 

areas of lending continues to remain a key point of focus. 

The wholesale portfolio is actively managed, in part by 

conducting ongoing, in-depth reviews of client credit quality 

and transaction structure, inclusive of collateral where 

applicable; and of industry, product and client 

concentrations.
Wholesale credit portfolio
December 31,Credit exposureNonperforming
(c)
(in millions)2015201420152014Loans retained$357,050
$324,502
$988
$599
Loans held-for-sale1,1043,80134Loans at fair value2,8612,6112521Loans – reported361,015
330,9141,016624Derivative receivables59,67778,975204275Receivables from 
customers and other
(a)13,37228,972——Total wholesale credit-related assets434,064
438,8611,220899Lending-relatedcommitments366,399366,881193103Total wholesale creditexposure$800,463
$805,742
$1,413
$1,002
Credit derivatives used 
in credit portfolio 
management activities(b)$(20,681)
$(26,703)
$(9)
$—Liquid securities andother cash collateral
held against derivatives(16,580)(19,604)NANA(a) Receivables from customers and other include $13.3 billion and $28.8 
billion of margin loans at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, 
to prime and retail brokerage customers; these are classified in 

accrued interest and accounts 
receivable on the Consolidated balance 
sheets.(b) Represents the net notional amount of protection purchased and sold 
through credit derivatives used to manage both performing and 

nonperforming wholesale credit exposures; these derivatives do not 

qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. For additional 

information, see Credit derivatives on page 129, and Note 6.
(c) Excludes assets acquired in loan satisfactions.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report123The following tables present the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale credit portfolio as of December 31, 2015 and 
2014. The ratings scale is based on the Firm’s internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by 

S&P and Moody’s. For additional information on wholesale loan portfolio risk ratings, see Note 14.
Wholesale credit exposure – maturity and ratings profileMaturity profile
(e)
Ratings profileDue in 1year or lessDue after 
1 year 
through 
5 years
Due after 5yearsTotalInvestment-gradeNoninvestment-gradeTotalTotal % 
of IGDecember 31, 2015
(in millions, except ratios)
AAA/Aaa toBBB-/Baa3BB+/Ba1 &belowLoans retained$110,348$155,902$90,800$357,050$267,736$89,314$357,05075%
Derivative receivables59,67759,677
Less:  Liquid securities and other cash collateralheld against derivatives(16,580)(16,580)
Total derivative receivables, net of all collateral11,39912,83618,86243,09734,7738,32443,09781
Lending-related commitments105,514251,0429,843366,399267,92298,477366,39973
Subtotal227,261419,780119,505766,546570,431196,115766,54674
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value
(a)3,9653,965Receivables from customers and other13,37213,372Total exposure – net of liquid securities andother cash collateral held against derivatives$783,883
$783,883
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio 
management activities by reference entity 
ratings profile
(b)(c)(d)
$(808)$(14,427)$(5,446)$(20,681)$(17,754)$(2,927)$(20,681)86%
Maturity profile
(e)
Ratings profileDue in 1year or lessDue after 
1 year 
through 
5 years
Due after 5yearsTotal
Investment-gradeNoninvestment-gradeTotalTotal % 
of IGDecember 31, 2014
(in millions, except ratios)
AAA/Aaa toBBB-/Baa3BB+/Ba1 &belowLoans retained$112,411$134,277$77,814$324,502$241,666$82,836$324,50274%
Derivative receivables78,97578,975
Less:  Liquid securities and other cash collateralheld against derivatives(19,604)(19,604)
Total derivative receivables, net of all collateral20,03216,13023,20959,37150,815
(f)8,556(f)59,37186
Lending-related commitments94,635262,5729,674366,881284,288
82,593366,88177
Subtotal227,078412,979110,697750,754576,769
173,985750,75477
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value
(a)6,4126,412Receivables from customers and other28,97228,972Total exposure – net of liquid securities andother cash collateral held against derivatives$786,138
$786,138
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio 
management activities by reference entity 
ratings profile
(b)(c)(d)
$(2,050)$(18,653)$(6,000)$(26,703)$(23,571)$(3,132)$(26,703)88%
(a) Represents loans held-for-sale, primarily related to syndicated loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio, and loans at fair value.
(b) These derivatives do not quality for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP.
(c) The notional amounts are presented on a net basis by underlying reference entity and the ratings profile shown is based on 
the ratings of the reference entity on which 
protection has been purchased.
(d) Predominantly all of the credit derivatives entered into by the Firm where it has purchased protection, including Credit de
rivatives used in credit portfolio management 
activities, are executed with investment grade counterparties.
(e) The maturity profile of retained loans, lending-related commitments and derivative receivables is based on remaining contra
ctual maturity. Derivative contracts that are in a 
receivable position at December 31, 2015, may become a payable prior to maturity based on their cash flow profile or changes in
 market conditions.
(f) Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with current period presentation.
Wholesale credit exposure – industry exposures
The Firm focuses on the management and diversification of 
its industry exposures, paying particular attention to 
industries with actual or potential credit concerns. 
Exposures deemed criticized align with the U.S. banking 

regulators’ definition of criticized exposures, which consist 
of the special mention, substandard and doubtful 
categories. The total criticized component of the portfolio, 
excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value, was 
$14.6 billion at December 31, 2015, compared with $10.1 
billion at December 31, 2014, driven by downgrades within 

the Oil & Gas portfolio.
Management’s discussion and analysis
124JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportEffective in the fourth quarter 2015, the Firm realigned its wholesale industry divisions in order to better monitor and manage 
industry concentrations. Included in this realignment is the 
combination of certain previous stand-alone industries (e.g. 
Consumer & Retail) as well as the creation of a new industry division, Financial Market Infrastructure, consisting of clearing 

houses, exchanges and related depositories. In the tables below, the prior period information has been revised to conform with 

the current period presentation.
Below are summaries of the Firm’s exposures as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. For additional information on industry 
concentrations, see Note 5.
Wholesale credit exposure – industries
(a)Selected metrics30 days ormore pastdue andaccruingloansNet charge-
offs/
(recoveries)
Credit 
derivative 
hedges(e)
Liquid securities and other cash collateral 
held against 
derivative
receivables
Noninvestment-gradeCredit
exposure
(d)Investment- 
gradeNoncriticized
CriticizedperformingCriticized 
nonperforming
As of or for the year ended 
December 31, 2015
(in millions)Real Estate$116,857$88,076$27,087$1,463$231$208$(14)$(54)$(47)
Consumer & Retail85,46053,64729,6591,9472071813(288)(94)
Technology, Media &  Telecommunications57,38229,20526,9251,208445(1)(806)(21)
Industrials54,38636,51916,6631,16440598(386)(39)
Healthcare46,05337,8587,75539446129(7)(24)(245)
Banks & Finance Cos43,39835,0717,6546106317(5)(974)(5,509)
Oil & Gas42,07724,37913,1584,2632772213(530)(37)
Utilities30,85324,9835,655168473—(190)(289)
State & Municipal Govt
(b)29,11428,307745
75555
(8)(146)(81)
Asset Managers23,81520,2143,570
31—18
—(6)(4,453)
Transportation19,22713,2585,801167
115
3(51)(243)
Central Govt17,96817,871
97——7—(9,359)(2,393)
Chemicals & Plastics15,23210,9104,017274
319—(17)
—Metals & Mining14,0496,5226,4341,008
851—(449)
(4)Automotive13,8649,1824,580101
14(2)(487)
(1)Insurance11,8899,8121,958
269323
—(157)(1,410)
Financial Markets Infrastructure7,9737,304669
—————(167)
Securities Firms4,4121,5052,907
——3—(102)(256)
All other(c)
149,117130,48818,095370
1641,015
10(6,655)(1,291)
Subtotal$783,126$585,111$183,429$13,201$1,385$1,611$10$(20,681)$(16,580)
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair 
value
3,965Receivables from customers and 
interests in purchased receivables
13,372Total
$800,463
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report125Selected metrics30 days ormore pastdue andaccruingloansNet charge-
offs/
(recoveries)
Credit 
derivative 
hedges(f)
Liquid securities and other cash collateral 
held against 
derivative
receivables
Noninvestment-gradeCredit
exposure
(e)
Investment- 
gradeNoncriticized
CriticizedperformingCriticized 
nonperforming
As of or for the year ended 
December 31, 2014

(in millions)Real Estate$105,975$78,996$25,370$1,356$253$309$(9)$(36)$(27)

Consumer & Retail83,66352,87228,2892,315187929(81)(26)
Technology, Media &   Telecommunications46,65529,79215,3581,4465925(5)(1,107)(13)
Industrials47,85929,24617,4831,1171358(1)(338)(24)

Healthcare56,51648,4027,5844884219316(94)(244)

Banks & Finance Cos55,09845,9628,6115081746(4)(1,232)(9,369)

Oil & Gas43,14829,26013,831561152(144)(161)

Utilities27,44123,5333,653255—198(3)(155)(193)

State & Municipal Govt
(b)31,06830,147
819102—6924(148)(130)
Asset Managers27,48824,0543,376
57138(12)(9)(4,545)
Transportation20,61913,7516,703
165—5(12)(42)(279)
Central Govt19,88119,647
17658———(11,342)(1,161)
Chemicals & Plastics12,6129,2563,327
29—1(2)(14)
—Metals & Mining14,9698,3046,161
504——18(377)(19)
Automotive12,7548,0714,522
161—1(1)(140)
—Insurance13,35010,5502,558
80162——(52)(2,372)
Financial Markets Infrastructure11,98611,487
499—————(4)Securities Firms4,8012,4912,245
105520
4(102)(212)
All other(c)
134,475118,63915,214
4351871,231(12)(11,290)(825)
Subtotal$770,358$594,460$165,779$9,142$977$2,301$12$(26,703)$(19,604)
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair 
value
6,412Receivables from customers and 
interests in purchased receivables28,972
Total
(d)$805,742
(a) The industry rankings presented in the table as of December 31, 2014, are based on the industry rankings of the correspondi
ng exposures at 
December 31, 2015, not actual rankings of such exposures at December 31, 2014.
(b) In addition to the credit risk exposure to states and municipal governments (both U.S. and non-U.S.) at December 31, 2015 a
nd 2014, noted above, the 
Firm held: $7.6 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively, of trading securities; $33.6 billion and $30.1 billion, respectively, of available-for-sale (“AFS”) 
securities; and $12.8 billion and $10.2 billion, respectively, of held-to-maturity (“HTM”) securities, issued by U.S. state and
 municipal governments. For 
further information, see Note 3 and Note 12.
(c) 
All other includes: individuals; SPEs; holding companies; and private education and civic organizations, representing approximately 54%, 37%, 5% and 

4%, respectively, at December 31, 2015, and 55%, 33%, 6% and 6%, respectively, at December 31, 2014.
(d) Excludes cash placed with banks of $351.0 billion and $501.5 billion, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, placed w
ith various central banks, 
predominantly Federal Reserve Banks.
(e) Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of “Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio mana
gement activities” held against 
derivative receivables or loans and “Liquid securities and other cash collateral held against derivative receivables”.
(f) Represents the net notional amounts of protection purchased and sold through credit derivatives used to manage the credit exposures; these derivatives 
do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP. The All other category includes purchased credit protection on certain cre
dit indices.
Management’s discussion and analysis
126JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportPresented below is a discussion of certain industries to 
which the Firm has significant exposure and/or present 

actual or potential credit concerns. For additional 

information, refer to the tables on the previous pages.
• Real Estate:
 Exposure to this industry increased by 
$10.9 billion, or 10%, in 2015 to $116.9 billion. The increase was largely driven by growth in multifamily 

exposure in Commercial Banking. The credit quality of 

this industry remained stable as the investment-grade 

portion of the exposures was 75% for 2015 and 2014. 

The ratio of nonaccrual retained loans to total retained 

loans decreased to 0.25% at December 31, 2015 from 

0.32% at December 31, 2014. For further information 

on commercial real estate loans, see Note 14.
• Oil & Gas:
 Exposure to the Oil & Gas industry was 
approximately 5.3% and 5.4% of the Firm’s total 

wholesale exposure as of December 31, 2015 and 

2014, respectively. Exposure to this industry decreased 

by $1.1 billion in 2015 to $42.1 billion; of the $42.1 
billion, $13.3 billion was drawn at year-end. As of 

December 31, 2015, approximately $24 billion of the 

exposure was investment-grade, of which $4 billion was 

drawn, and approximately $18 billion of the exposure 

was high yield, of which $9 billion was drawn. As of 

December 31, 2015, $23.5 billion of the portfolio was 

concentrated in the Exploration & Production and 

Oilfield Services sub-sectors, 36% of which exposure 

was drawn. Exposure to other sub-sectors, including 

Integrated oil and gas firms, Midstream/Oil Pipeline 

companies, and Refineries, is predominantly investment-

grade. As of December 31, 2015, secured lending, which 

largely consists of reserve-based lending to the Oil & Gas 

industry, was $12.3 billion, 44% of which exposure was 

drawn. 
In addition to $42.1 billion in exposure classified as Oil 
& Gas, the Firm had $4.3 billion in exposure to Natural 

Gas Pipelines and related Distribution businesses, of 

which $893 million was drawn at year end and 63% was 

investment-grade, and $4.1 billion in exposure to 

commercial real estate in geographies sensitive to the 

Oil & Gas industry. 
The Firm continues to actively monitor and manage its 
exposure to the Oil & Gas industry in light of market 

conditions, and is also actively monitoring potential 

contagion effects on other related or dependent 

industries.• Metals & Mining: 
Exposure to the Metals & Mining 
industry was approximately 1.8% and 1.9% of the 

Firm’s total wholesale exposure as of December 31, 

2015 and 2014, respectively. Exposure to the Metals & 

Mining industry decreased by $920 million in 2015 to 

$14.0 billion, of which $4.6 billion was drawn. The 

portfolio largely consists of exposure in North America, 

and 59% is concentrated in the Steel and Diversified 

Mining sub-sectors. Approximately 46% of the exposure 

in the Metals & Mining portfolio was investment-grade as 

of December 31, 2015, a decrease from 55% as of 

December 31, 2014, due to downgrades.
Loans

In the normal course of its wholesale business, the Firm 

provides loans to a variety of customers, ranging from large 

corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth 

individuals. The Firm actively manages its wholesale credit 

exposure. One way of managing credit risk is through 

secondary market sales of loans and lending-related 

commitments. For further discussion on loans, including 

information on credit quality indicators and sales of loans, 

see Note 14.The following table presents the change in the nonaccrual 
loan portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 

2014.Wholesale nonaccrual loan activityYear ended December 31, (in millions)20152014Beginning balance$624
$1,044
Additions1,307882Reductions:Paydowns and other534756Gross charge-offs87148Returned to performing status286303Sales895Total reductions915
1,302Net changes392
(420)Ending balance$1,016
$624
The following table presents net charge-offs, which are 

defined as gross charge-offs less recoveries, for the years 

ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. The amounts in the 
table below do not include gains or losses from sales of 

nonaccrual loans.Wholesale net charge-offsYear ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
20152014Loans – reportedAverage loans retained$337,407
$316,060
Gross charge-offs95151Gross recoveries(85)(139)Net charge-offs1012Net charge-off rate—%—%JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report127Receivables from customers
Receivables from customers primarily represent margin 

loans to prime and retail brokerage clients that are 

collateralized through a pledge of assets maintained in 

clients’ brokerage acc
ounts which are subject to daily 
minimum collateral requirements. In the event that the 

collateral value decreases, a maintenance margin call is 

made to the client to provide additional collateral into the 

account. If additional collateral is not provided by the client, 

the client’s position may be liquidated by the Firm to meet 

the minimum collateral requirements.
Lending-related commitments
The Firm uses lending-related financial instruments, such as 

commitments (including revolving credit facilities) and 

guarantees, to meet the financing needs of its customers. 

The contractual amounts of these financial instruments 

represent the maximum possible credit risk should the 

counterparties draw down on these commitments or the 

Firm fulfills its obligations under these guarantees, and the 

counterparties subsequently fail to perform according to 

the terms of these contracts.
In the Firm’s view, the total contractual amount of these 
wholesale lending-related commitments is not 

representative of the Firm’s likely actual future credit 

exposure or funding requirements. In determining the 

amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale 

lending-related commitments, which is used as the basis for 

allocating credit risk capital to these commitments, the Firm 

has established a “loan-equivalent” amount for each 

commitment; this amount represents the portion of the 

unused commitment or other contingent exposure that is 

expected, based on average portfolio historical experience, 

to become drawn upon in an event of a default by an 

obligor. The loan-equivalent amount of the Firm’s lending-

related commitments was $212.4 billion and $216.5 billion 

as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Clearing services
The Firm provides clearing services for clients entering into 

securities and derivative transactions. Through the 

provision of these services the Firm is exposed to the risk of 

non-performance by its clients and may be required to 

share in losses incurred by central counterparties (“CCPs”). 

Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit risk to 

its clients through the collection of adequate margin at 

inception and throughout the life of the transactions and 

can also cease provision of clearing services if clients do not 

adhere to their obligations under the clearing agreement. 

For further discussion of Clearing services, see Note 29.
Derivative contracts

In the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative 

instruments predominantly for market-making activities. 

Derivatives enable customers to manage exposures to 

fluctuations in interest rates, currencies and other markets. 

The Firm also uses derivative instruments to manage its 

own credit and other market risk exposure. The nature of 

the counterparty and the settlement mechanism of the 

derivative affect the credit risk to which the Firm is 

exposed. For OTC derivatives the Firm is exposed to the 

credit risk of the derivative counterparty. For exchange-

traded derivatives (“ETD”), such as futures and options and 

“cleared” over-the-counter (“OTC-cleared”) derivatives, the 

Firm is generally exposed to the credit risk of the relevant 

CCP. Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit 

risk exposures arising from derivative transactions through 

the use of legally enforceable master netting arrangements 

and collateral agreements. For further discussion of 

derivative contracts, counterparties and settlement types, 

see Note 6.The following table summarizes the net derivative 
receivables for the periods presented.
Derivative receivablesDecember 31, (in millions)20152014Interest rate$26,363
$33,725
Credit derivatives1,4231,838Foreign exchange17,17721,253Equity5,5298,177Commodity9,18513,982Total, net of cash collateral59,677
78,975Liquid securities and other cash collateralheld against derivative receivables(16,580)(19,604)Total, net of all collateral$43,097
$59,371
Derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated balance 
sheets were $59.7 billion and $79.0 billion at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These amounts 

represent the fair value of the derivative contracts, after 

giving effect to legally enforceable master netting 

agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. However, 

in management’s view, the appropriate measure of current 

credit risk should also take into consideration additional 

liquid securities (primarily U.S. government and agency 

securities and other group of seven nations (“G7”) 

government bonds) and other cash collateral held by the 

Firm aggregating $16.6 billion and $19.6 billion at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, that may be 

used as security when the fair value of the client’s exposure 

is in the Firm’s favor. The decrease in derivative receivables 

was predominantly driven by declines in interest rate 

derivatives, commodity derivatives, foreign exchange 

derivatives and equity derivatives due to market 

movements, maturities and settlements related to client-

driven market-making activities in CIB.
Management’s discussion and analysis
128JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportIn addition to the collateral described in the preceding 
paragraph, the Firm also holds additional collateral 

(primarily cash; G7 government securities; other liquid 

government-agency and guaranteed securities; and 

corporate debt and equity securities) delivered by clients at 

the initiation of transactions, as well as collateral related to 

contracts that have a non-daily call frequency and collateral 

that the Firm has agreed to return but has not yet settled as 

of the reporting date. Although this collateral does not 

reduce the balances and is not included in the table above, it is available as security against potential exposure that 

could arise should the fair value of the client’s derivative 

transactions move in the Firm’s favor. As of December 31, 

2015 and 2014, the Firm held $43.7 billion and $48.6 

billion, respectively, of this additional collateral. The 

derivative receivables fair value, net of all collateral, also 

does not include other credit enhancements, such as letters 

of credit. For additional information on the Firm’s use of 

collateral agreements, see Note 6.
While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net 
fair value of the derivative receivables does not capture the 

potential future variability of that credit exposure. To 

capture the potential future variability of credit exposure, 

the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client basis, three 

measures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, 

Derivative Risk Equivalent (“DRE”), and Average exposure 

(“AVG”). These measures all incorporate netting and 

collateral benefits, where applicable.
Peak represents a conservative measure of potential 
exposure to a counterparty calculated in a manner that is 

broadly equivalent to a 97.5% confidence level. Peak is the 

primary measure used by the Firm for setting of credit 

limits for derivative transactions, senior management 

reporting and derivatives exposure management. DRE 

exposure is a measure that expresses the risk of derivative 

exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the risk of 

loan exposures. DRE is a less extreme measure of potential 

credit loss than Peak and is used for aggregating derivative 

credit risk exposures with loans and other credit risk.
Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected fair value of the 

Firm’s derivative receivables at future time periods, 

including the benefit of collateral. AVG exposure over the 

total life of the derivative contract is used as the primary 

metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculate credit 

capital and the CVA, as further described below. The three 

year AVG exposure was $32.4 billion and $37.5 billion at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, compared with 

derivative receivables, net of all collateral, of $43.1 billion 

and $59.4 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively.
The fair value of the Firm’s derivative receivables 

incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, to reflect the credit 

quality of counterparties. The CVA is based on the Firm’s 

AVG to a counterparty and the counterparty’s credit spread 

in the credit derivatives market. The primary components of 

changes in CVA are credit spreads, new deal activity or 

unwinds, and changes in the underlying market 

environment. The Firm believes that active risk 

management is essential to controlling the dynamic credit 

risk in the derivatives portfolio. In addition, the Firm’s risk 

management process takes into consideration the potential 

impact of wrong-way risk, which is broadly defined as the 

potential for increased correlation between the Firm’s 

exposure to a counterparty (AVG) and the counterparty’s 

credit quality. Many factors may influence the nature and 

magnitude of these correlations over time. To the extent 

that these correlations are identified, the Firm may adjust 

the CVA associated with that counterparty’s AVG. The Firm 

risk manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into 

credit derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, 

foreign exchange, equity and commodity derivative 

transactions.
The accompanying graph shows exposure profiles to the 
Firm’s current derivatives portfolio over the next 10 years 

as calculated by the Peak, DRE and AVG metrics. The three 

measures generally show that exposure will decline after 

the first year, if no new trades are added to the portfolio.
Exposure profile of derivatives measures
December 31, 2015
(in billions)JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report129The following table summarizes the ratings profile by derivative counterparty of the Firm’s derivative receivables, including c
redit 
derivatives, net of other liquid securities collateral, at the dates indicated. The ratings scale is based on the Firm’s intern
al ratings, 
which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody’s.
Ratings profile of derivative receivablesRating equivalent20152014(a)December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
Exposure net ofall collateral% of exposure net 
of all collateral
Exposure net ofall collateral% of exposure net 
of all collateral
AAA/Aaa to AA-/Aa3$10,37124%
$18,71332%
A+/A1 to A-/A310,59525
13,50823
BBB+/Baa1 to BBB-/Baa313,80732
18,59431
BB+/Ba1 to B-/B37,50017
7,73513
CCC+/Caa1 and below8242
8211
Total$43,097100%
$59,371100%
(a) Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with current period presentation.
As previously noted, the Firm uses collateral agreements to 
mitigate counterparty credit risk. The percentage of the 

Firm’s derivatives transactions subject to collateral 

agreements — excluding foreign exchange spot trades, 

which are not typically covered by collateral agreements 

due to their short maturity — was 87% as of December 31, 

2015, largely unchanged compared with 88% as of 

December 31, 2014.Credit derivatives
The Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: 

first, in its capacity as a market-maker, and second, as an 

end-user to manage the Firm’s own credit risk associated 

with various exposures. For a detailed description of credit 

derivatives, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.
Credit portfolio management activities
Included in the Firm’s end-user activities are credit 

derivatives used to mitigate the credit risk associated with 

traditional lending activities (loans and unfunded 

commitments) and derivatives counterparty exposure in the 

Firm’s wholesale businesses (collectively, “credit portfolio 

management” activities). Information on credit portfolio 

management activities is provided in the table below. For 

further information on derivatives used in credit portfolio 

management activities, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.
The Firm also uses credit derivatives as an end-user to 
manage other exposures, including credit risk arising from 

certain securities held in the Firm’s market-making 

businesses. These credit derivatives are not included in 

credit portfolio management activities; for further 

information on these credit derivatives as well as credit 

derivatives used in the Firm’s capacity as a market-maker in 

credit derivatives, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.
Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio managementactivitiesNotional amount of 
protection 
purchased 
(a)December 31, (in millions)20152014Credit derivatives used to manage:Loans and lending-related commitments$2,289
$2,047
Derivative receivables18,39224,656Credit derivatives used in credit portfolio
management activities$20,681
$26,703
(a) Amounts are presented net, considering the Firm’s net protection 
purchased or sold with respect to each underlying reference entity or 
index.
The credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management 

activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. 

GAAP; these derivatives are reported at fair value, with 

gains and losses recognized in principal transactions 

revenue. In contrast, the loans and lending-related 

commitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an 

accrual basis. This asymmetry in accounting treatment, 

between loans and lending-related commitments and the 

credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management 

activities, causes earnings volatility that is not 

representative, in the Firm’s view, of the true changes in 

value of the Firm’s overall credit exposure.
The effectiveness of the Firm’s credit default swap (“CDS”) 
protection as a hedge of the Firm’s exposures may vary 

depending on a number of factors, including the named 

reference entity (i.e., the Firm may experience losses on 

specific exposures that are different than the named 

reference entities in the purchased CDS); the contractual 

terms of the CDS (which may have a defined credit event 

that does not align with an actual loss realized by the Firm); 

and the maturity of the Firm’s CDS protection (which in 

some cases may be shorter than the Firm’s exposures). 

However, the Firm generally seeks to purchase credit 

protection with a maturity date that is the same or similar 

to the maturity date of the exposure for which the 

protection was purchased, and remaining differences in 

maturity are actively monitored and managed by the Firm.
Management’s discussion and analysis
130JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSESJPMorgan Chase’s allowance for loan losses covers both the 
consumer (primarily scored) portfolio and wholesale (risk-

rated) portfolio. The allowance represents management’s 

estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm’s 

loan portfolio. Management also determines an allowance 

for wholesale and certain consumer lending-related 

commitments.For a further discussion of the components of the allowance 
for credit losses and related management judgments, see 

Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 

165–169 and Note 15.At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is 
reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Financial 

Officer and the Controller of the Firm, and discussed with 

the DRPC and Audit Committee of the Firm’s Board of 

Directors. As of December 31, 2015, JPMorgan Chase 

deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate 

and sufficient to absorb probable credit losses inherent in 

the portfolio.
The consumer, excluding credit card, allowance for loan 

losses decreased from December 31, 2014, due to a 

reduction in the residential real estate portfolio allowance, 

reflecting continued imp
rovement in home prices and delinquencies and increased granularity in the impairment 

estimates. For additional information about delinquencies 

and nonaccrual loans in the consumer, excluding credit 

card, loan portfolio, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 

115–121 and Note 14.The credit card allowance for loan losses was relatively 
unchanged from December 31, 2014, reflecting stable 

credit quality trends. For additional information about 

delinquencies in the credit card loan portfolio, see 

Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 115–121 and Note 14.
The wholesale allowance for credit losses increased from 
December 31, 2014, reflecting the impact of downgrades in 

the Oil & Gas portfolio. Excluding Oil and Gas, the wholesale 

portfolio continued to experience generally stable credit 

quality trends and low charge-off rates.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report131Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses20152014Year ended December 31,Consumer, 
excluding 
credit card
Credit cardWholesaleTotal
Consumer, 
excluding 
credit card
Credit cardWholesaleTotal
(in millions, except ratios)Allowance for loan lossesBeginning balance at January 1,$7,050$3,439$3,696$14,185
$8,456$3,795$4,013$16,264
Gross charge-offs1,6583,488955,241
2,1323,8311516,114
Gross recoveries(704)(366)(85)(1,155)
(814)(402)(139)(1,355)
Net charge-offs9543,122104,086
1,3183,429124,759
Write-offs of PCI loans
(a)208——208
533——533
Provision for loan losses(82)3,1226233,663
4143,079(269)3,224
Other—(5)61
31(6)(36)(11)
Ending balance at December 31,$5,806$3,434$4,315$13,555
$7,050$3,439$3,696$14,185
Impairment methodology
Asset-specific
(b)$364$460$274$1,098
$539$500$87$1,126
Formula-based2,7002,9744,0419,715
3,1862,9393,6099,734
PCI2,742——2,742
3,325——3,325
Total allowance for loan losses$5,806$3,434$4,315$13,555
$7,050$3,439$3,696$14,185
Allowance for lending-related commitmentsBeginning balance at January 1,$13$—$609$622
$8$—$697$705
Provision for lending-related commitments1—163164
5—(90)(85)
Other——————22
Ending balance at December 31,$14$—$772$786
$13$—$609$622
Impairment methodologyAsset-specific$—$—$73$73
$—$—$60$60
Formula-based14—699713
13—549562
Total allowance for lending-related 
commitments
(c)
$14$—$772$786
$13$—$609$622
Total allowance for credit losses$5,820$3,434$5,087$14,341
$7,063$3,439$4,305$14,807
Memo:Retained loans, end of period$344,355$131,387$357,050$832,792
$294,979$128,027$324,502$747,508
Retained loans, average318,612124,274337,407780,293
289,212124,604316,060729,876
PCI loans, end of period40,998—441,002
46,696—446,700
Credit ratiosAllowance for loan losses to retained loans1.69%2.61%1.21%1.63%
2.39%2.69%1.14%1.90%
Allowance for loan losses to retained nonaccrual 
loans(d)109NM437215
110NM617202
Allowance for loan losses to retained nonaccrualloans excluding credit card109NM437161
110NM617153
Net charge-off rates0.302.51—0.52
0.462.75—0.65
Credit ratios, excluding residential real estatePCI loansAllowance for loan losses toretained loans1.012.611.211.37
1.502.691.141.55
Allowance for loan losses to 
retained nonaccrual loans
(d)58NM437172
58NM617155
Allowance for loan losses toretained nonaccrual loans excluding creditcard58NM437117
58NM617106
Net charge-off rates0.35%2.51%—%0.55%
0.55%2.75%—%0.70%
Note: In the table above, the financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans are non-GAAP financial measures. For additional information, see 
Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 80–82.
(a) Write-offs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated l
osses that were recorded as 
purchase accounting adjustments at the time of acquisition. A write-off of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is
 removed from a pool (e.g., 
upon liquidation). During the fourth quarter of 2014, the Firm recorded a $291 million adjustment to reduce the PCI allowance a
nd the recorded 
investment in the Firm’s PCI loan portfolio, primarily reflecting the cumulative effect of interest forgiveness modifications. This adjustment had no impact 
to the Firm’s Consolidated statements of income.
(b) Includes risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a TDR. The asset-
specific credit card allowance 
for loan losses modified in a TDR is calculated based on the loans’ original contractual interest rates and does not consider a
ny incremental penalty rates.
(c) The allowance for lending-related commitments is reported in other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets.

(d) The Firm’s policy is generally to exempt credit card loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulator
y guidance.
Management’s discussion and analysis
132JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportProvision for credit losses
For the year ended December 31, 2015, the provision for 

credit losses was $3.8 billion, compared with $3.1 billion 

for the year ended December 31, 2014. 
The total consumer provision for credit losses for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 reflected lower net charge-offs 

due to continued discipline in credit underwriting as well as 

improvement in the economy driven by increasing home 

prices and lower unemployment, partially offset by a lower 

reduction in the allowance for loan loss compared with 

December 31, 2014. The wholesale provision for credit losses for the year ended 

December 31, 2015 reflected the impact of downgrades in 

the Oil & Gas portfolio.
Year ended December 31,
Provision for loan lossesProvision for 
lending-related commitmentsTotal provision for credit losses
(in millions)201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
Consumer, excluding credit card$(82)
$414$(1,872)
$1$5$1
$(81)
$419$(1,871)
Credit card3,1223,0792,179
———3,1223,0792,179
Total consumer3,0403,493307
1513,0413,498308
Wholesale623(269)(119)
163(90)36
786(359)(83)
Total$3,663
$3,224$188
$164
$(85)$37
$3,827
$3,139$225
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report133MARKET RISK MANAGEMENTMarket risk is the potential for adverse changes in the value 
of the Firm’s assets and liabilities resulting from changes in 

market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange 

rates, equity prices, commodity prices, implied volatilities 

or credit spreads.
Market risk management
Market Risk management, part of the independent risk 

management function, is responsible for identifying and 

monitoring market risks throughout the Firm and defines 

market risk policies and procedures. The Market Risk 

function reports to the Firm’s CRO.
Market Risk seeks to control risk, facilitate efficient risk/
return decisions, reduce volatility in operating performance 

and provide transparency into the Firm’s market risk profile 

for senior management, the Board of Directors and 

regulators. Market Risk is responsible for the following 

functions:• Establishment of a market risk policy framework
• Independent measurement, monitoring and control of 
line of business and firmwide market risk• Definition, approval and monitoring of limits
• Performance of stress testing and qualitative risk 

assessmentsRisk identification and classification
Each line of business is responsible for the management of 

the market risks within its units. The independent risk 
management group responsible for overseeing each line of 

business is charged with ensuring that all material market 

risks are appropriately identified, measured, monitored and 

managed in accordance with the 
risk policy framework set 
out by Market Risk.
Risk measurementTools used to measure risk 
Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market 

risk, the Firm uses various metrics, both statistical and 

nonstatistical, including:
• VaR
• Economic-value stress testing
• Nonstatistical risk measures
• Loss advisories

• Profit and loss drawdowns
• Earnings-at-risk
Risk monitoring and control 
Market risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits 

set in the context of the market environment and business 

strategy. In setting limits, the Firm takes into consideration 

factors such as market volatility, product liquidity and 

accommodation of client business and management 

experience. The Firm maintains different levels of limits. 

Corporate level limits include VaR and stress limits. 

Similarly, line of business limits include VaR and stress 

limits and may be supplemented by loss advisories, 

nonstatistical measurements and profit and loss 

drawdowns. Limits may also be set within the lines of 

business, as well at the portfolio or legal entity level.
Limits are set by Market Risk and are regularly reviewed 
and updated as appropriate, with any changes approved by line of business management and Market Risk. Senior 

management, including the Firm’s CEO and CRO, are 

responsible for reviewing and approving certain of these 

risk limits on an ongoing basis. All limits that have not been 

reviewed within specified time periods by Market Risk are 

escalated to senior management. The lines of business are 

responsible for adhering to established limits against which 

exposures are monitored and reported.
Limit breaches are required to be reported in a timely 
manner to limit approvers, Market Risk and senior management. In the event of a breach, Market Risk consults 

with Firm senior management and the line of business 

senior management to determine the appropriate course of 

action required to return to compliance, which may include 

a reduction in risk in order to remedy the breach. Certain 

Firm or line of business-level limits that have been breached 

for three business days or longer, or by more than 30%, are 

escalated to senior management and the Firmwide Risk 

Committee.
Management’s discussion and analysis
134JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table summarizes by LOB the predominant business activities that give rise to market risk, and the market risk 
management tools utilized to manage those risks; CB is not presented in the table below as it does not give rise to significant
 
market risk.
Risk identification and classification for business activitiesLOBPredominant business activities andrelated market risksPositions included in Risk
Management VaRPositions included in other risk 
measures (Not included in Risk Management VaR)
CIB•   Makes markets and services clients 
across fixed income, foreign 
exchange, equities and commodities
•   Market risk arising from changes 
in market prices (e.g. rates and 
credit spreads) resulting in a 

potential decline in net income
•   Market risk(a) related to: 
•   Trading assets/liabilities – debt 
and equity instruments, and 

derivatives, including hedges of 

the retained loan portfolio
•   Certain securities purchased 
under resale agreements and 

securities borrowed
•   Certain securities loaned or sold 
under repurchase agreements
•   Structured notes
•   Derivative CVA and associated 
hedges•   Principal investing activities
•   Retained loan portfolio

•   Deposits
•   DVA and FVA on derivatives and 
structured notes
CCB•   Originates and services mortgage 
loans
•   Complex, non-linear interest rate 
and basis risk•   Non-linear risk arises primarily from prepayment options 
embedded in mortgages and 

changes in the probability of 

newly originated mortgage 

commitments actually closing 
•   Basis risk results from differences 
in the relative movements of the 

rate indices underlying mortgage 

exposure and other interest rates
Mortgage Banking
•   Mortgage pipeline loans, classified
 as derivatives
•   Warehouse loans, classified as 
trading assets – debt instruments
    •   MSRs•   Hedges of pipeline loans,warehouse loans and MSRs, 

classified as derivatives.
•   Interest-only securities, classified 
as trading assets, and related 

hedges, classified as derivatives
•   Retained loan portfolio
•   Deposits
•   Principal investing activities
Corporate•   Manages the Firm’s liquidity,funding, structural interest rate andforeign exchange risks arising from
activities undertaken by the Firm’s
four major reportable business
segmentsTreasury and CIO
•  Primarily derivative positions 
measured at fair value through 
earnings, classified as derivatives
•   Principal investing activities
•   Investment securities portfolio and 
related hedges 
•   Deposits
•   Long-term debt and related hedges
AM•   Market risk arising from the Firm’sinitial capital investments inproducts, such as mutual funds,
managed by AM•   Initial seed capital investments andrelated hedges, classified as
derivatives•   Capital invested alongside third-
party investors, typically in privately 

distributed collective vehicles 

managed by AM (i.e., co-

investments)
•   Retained loan portfolio
•   Deposits(a) Market risk measurement for derivatives generally incorporates the impact of DVA and FVA; market risk measurement for structured notes generally 
excludes the impact of FVA and DVA.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report135Value-at-risk
JPMorgan Chase utilizes VaR, a statistical risk measure, to 

estimate the potential loss from adverse market moves in a 

normal market environment. The Firm has a single VaR 

framework used as a basis for calculating Risk Management 

VaR and Regulatory VaR.
The framework is employed across the Firm using historical 
simulation based on data for the previous 12 months. The 

framework’s approach assumes that historical changes in 

market values are representative of the distribution of 

potential outcomes in the immediate future. The Firm 

believes the use of Risk Management VaR provides a stable 

measure of VaR that closely aligns to the day-to-day risk 

management decisions made by the lines of business, and 
provides the necessary and appropriate information needed 

to respond to risk events on a daily basis.
Risk Management VaR is calculated assuming a one-day 
holding period and an expected tail-loss methodology which 

approximates a 95% confidence level. VaR provides a 

consistent framework to measure risk profiles and levels of 

diversification across product types and is used for 

aggregating risks across businesses and monitoring limits. 

These VaR results are reported to senior management, the 

Board of Directors and regulators.
Under the Firm’s Risk Management VaR methodology, 
assuming current changes in market values are consistent 

with the historical changes used in the simulation, the Firm 

would expect to incur VaR “band breaks,” defined as losses 

greater than that predicted by VaR estimates, not more 

than five times every 100 trading days. The number of VaR 

band breaks observed can differ from the statistically 

expected number of band breaks if the current level of 

market volatility is materially different from the level of 

market volatility during the 12 months of historical data 

used in the VaR calculation.
Underlying the overall VaR model framework are individual 
VaR models that simulate historical market returns for 

individual products and/or risk factors. To capture material 

market risks as part of the Firm’s risk management 

framework, comprehensive VaR model calculations are 

performed daily for businesses whose activities give rise to 

market risk. These VaR models are granular and incorporate 

numerous risk factors and inputs to simulate daily changes 

in market values over the historical period; inputs are 

selected based on the risk profile of each portfolio as 

sensitivities and historical time series used to generate daily 

market values may be different across product types or risk 

management systems. The VaR model results across all 

portfolios are aggregated at the Firm level.
For certain products, specific risk parameters are not 
captured in VaR due to the lack of inherent liquidity and 

availability of appropriate historical data for these products. 

The Firm uses proxies to estimate the VaR for these and 

other products when daily time series are not available. It is 

likely that using an actual price-based time series for these 

products, if available, would affect the VaR results 

presented. 
In addition, data sources used in VaR models may not be the 

same as those used for financial statement valuations. In 

cases where market prices are not observable, or where 

proxies are used in VaR historical time series, the sources 

may differ. The daily market data used in VaR models may 

be different than the independent third-party data collected 

for VCG price testing in VCG’s monthly valuation process 

(see Valuation process in Note 3 for further information on 

the Firm’s valuation process). VaR model calculations 

require daily data and a consistent source for valuation and 

therefore it is not practical to use the data collected in the 

VCG monthly valuation process. 
Since VaR is based on historical data, it is an imperfect 
measure of market risk exposure and potential losses, and 

it is not used to estimate the impact of stressed market 

conditions or to manage any impact from potential stress 

events. In addition, based on their reliance on available 

historical data, limited time horizons, and other factors, VaR 

measures are inherently limited in their ability to measure 

certain risks and to predict losses, particularly those 

associated with market illiquidity and sudden or severe 

shifts in market conditions. The Firm therefore considers 

other measures in addition to VaR, such as stress testing, to 

capture and manage its market risk positions.
The Firm’s VaR model calculations are periodically 
evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the 

composition of the Firm’s portfolios, changes in market 

conditions, improvements in the Firm’s modeling techniques 
and other factors. Such changes may also affect historical 

comparisons of VaR results. Model changes undergo a 

review and approval process by the Model Review Group 

prior to implementation into the operating environment. 

For further information, see Model risk on page 142.
The Firm calculates separately a daily aggregated VaR in 
accordance with regulatory rules (“Regulatory VaR”), which 

is used to derive the Firm’s regulatory VaR-based capital 

requirements under Basel III. This Regulatory VaR model 

framework currently assumes a ten business-day holding 

period and an expected tail loss methodology which 

approximates a 99% confidence level. Regulatory VaR is 

applied to “covered” positions as defined by Basel III, which 

may be different than the positions included in the Firm’s 

Risk Management VaR. For example, credit derivative 

hedges of accrual loans are included in the Firm’s Risk 

Management VaR, while Regulatory VaR excludes these 

credit derivative hedges. In addition, in contrast to the 

Firm’s Risk Management VaR, Regulatory VaR currently 

excludes the diversification benefit for certain VaR models.
Management’s discussion and analysis
136JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportFor additional information on Regulatory VaR and the other 
components of market risk regulatory capital 
(e.g. VaR-
based measure, stressed VaR-based measure and the 

respective backtesting) for the Firm, see JPMorgan Chase’s 
Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, 

which are available on the Firm’s website (http://

investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).
The table below shows the results of the Firm’s Risk Managemen
t VaR measure using a 95% confidence level.
Total VaRAs of or for the year ended December 31,20152014At December 31,
(in millions) Avg.MinMax Avg.MinMax
20152014CIB trading VaR by risk typeFixed income$42$31$60
$34$23$45
$37
$34
Foreign exchange9616
8425
68Equities181126
151023
2122Commodities and other10614
8514
106Diversification benefit to CIB trading VaR(35)(a)NM(b)NM(b)(30)(a)NM(b)NM(b)(28)(a)(32)(a)CIB trading VaR442768
352449
4638Credit portfolio VaR141020
13818
1016Diversification benefit to CIB VaR(9)(a)NM(b)NM(b)(8)(a)NM(b)NM(b)(10)(a)(9)(a)CIB VaR493471
402956
4645Mortgage Banking VaR428
7228
43Treasury and CIO VaR437
436
54Asset Management VaR324
324
32Diversification benefit to other VaR(3)(a)NM(b)NM(b)(4)(a)NM(b)NM(b)(4)(a)(3)(a)Other VaR8512
10527
86Diversification benefit to CIB and other VaR(10)(a)NM(b)NM(b)(7)(a)NM(b)NM(b)(9)(a)(5)(a)Total VaR$47$34$67
$43$30$70
$45
$46
(a) Average portfolio VaR and period-end portfolio VaR were less than the sum of the VaR of the components described above, whi
ch is due to portfolio diversification. 
The diversification effect reflects the fact that risks are not perfectly correlated.
(b) Designated as not meaningful (“NM”), because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for distinct risk componen
ts, and hence it is not meaningful 
to compute a portfolio-diversification effect.
As presented in the table above, average Total VaR and 
average CIB VaR increased during 2015 when compared 
with 2014. The increase in Total VaR was primarily due to 

higher volatility in the CIB in the historical one-year look-

back period during 2015 versus 2014.
Average CIB trading VaR increased during 2015 primarily 
due to higher VaR in the Fixed Income and Equities risk 

factors reflecting a combination of higher market volatility 

and increased exposure.
Average Mortgage Banking VaR decreased from the prior 
year. Average Mortgage Banking VaR was elevated late in 

the second quarter of 2014 due to a change in the MSR 

hedge position made in advance of an anticipated update to 

certain MSR model assumptions; when such updates were 

implemented, the MSR VaR decreased to levels more 

consistent with prior periods.The Firm continues to enhance the VaR model calculations 
and time series inputs related to certain asset-backed 

products.
The Firm’s average Total VaR diversification benefit was $10 

million or 21% of the sum for 2015, compared with $7 

million or 16% of the sum for 2014. In general, over the 

course of the year, VaR exposure can vary significantly as 

positions change, market volatility fluctuates and 

diversification benefits change.
VaR back-testing
The Firm evaluates the effectiveness of its VaR methodology 

by back-testing, which compares the daily Risk Management 

VaR results with the daily gains and losses recognized on 

market-risk related revenue.
The Firm’s definition of market risk-related gains and losses 
is consistent with the definition used by the banking 

regulators under Basel III. Under this definition market risk-

related gains and losses are defined as: gains and losses on 

the positions included in the Firm’s Risk Management VaR, 

excluding fees, commissions, certain valuation adjustments 

(e.g., liquidity and DVA), net interest income, and gains and 

losses arising from intraday trading.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report137The following chart compares the daily market risk-related 
gains and losses with the Firm’s Risk Management VaR for 

the year ended December 31, 2015. As the chart presents 

market risk-related gains and losses related to those 

positions included in the Firm’s Risk Management VaR, the 

results in the table below differ from the results of back-

testing disclosed in the Market Risk section of the Firm’s 
Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, 

which are based on Regulatory VaR applied to covered 

positions. The chart shows that for the year ended 

December 31, 2015, the Firm observed three VaR band 

breaks and posted Market risk-related gains on 117 of the 

260 days in this period.
Other risk measures 
Economic-v
alue stress testing 
Along with VaR, stress testing is an important tool in 

measuring and controlling risk. While VaR reflects the risk 

of loss due to adverse changes in markets using recent 

historical market behavior as an indicator of losses, stress 

testing is intended to capture the Firm’s exposure to 
unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. The Firm 
runs weekly stress tests on market-related risks across the 
lines of business using multiple scenarios that assume 
significant changes in risk factors such as credit spreads, 
equity prices, interest rates, currency rates or commodity 
prices. The Firm uses a number of standard scenarios that capture 
different risk factors across asset classes including 
geographical factors, specific idiosyncratic factors and 
extreme tail events. The stress framework calculates 
multiple magnitudes of potential stress for both market 
rallies and market sell-offs for each risk factor and 
combines them in multiple ways to capture different market 
scenarios. For example, certain scenarios assess the 
potential loss arising from current exposures held by the 
Firm due to a broad sell off in bond markets or an extreme 
widening in corporate credit spreads. The flexibility of the 
stress testing framework allows risk managers to construct 

new, specific scenarios that can be used to form decisions 

about future possible stress events.
Stress testing complements VaR by allowing risk managers
to shock current market prices to more extreme levels 

relative to those historically realized, and to stress test the 

relationships between market prices under extreme 
scenarios. Stress-test results, trends and qualitative explanations 
based on current market risk positions are reported to the 
respective LOB’s and the Firm’s senior management to allow 
them to better understand the sensitivity of positions to 
certain defined events and to enable them to manage their 
risks with more transparency. In addition, results are 

reported to the Board of Directors.
Stress scenarios are defined and reviewed by Market Risk, 
and significant changes are reviewed by the relevant LOB 
Risk Committees and may be redefined on a periodic basis 
to reflect current market conditions. 
The Firm’s stress testing framework is utilized in calculating 
results under scenarios mandated by the Federal Reserve’s 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) and 
Management’s discussion and analysis
138JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportInternal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (“ICAAP”)
processes. In addition, the results are incorporated into the 

quarterly assessment of the Firm’s Risk Appetite Framework 

and are also presented to the DRPC.
Nonstatistical risk measures 
Nonstatistical risk measures include sensitivities to 

variables used to value positions, such as credit spread 

sensitivities, interest rate basis point values and market 

values. These measures provide granular information on the 

Firm’s market risk exposure. They are aggregated by line of 

business and by risk type, and are also used for monitoring 

internal market risk limits.Loss advisories and profit and loss drawdowns 
Loss advisories and profit and loss drawdowns are tools 

used to highlight trading losses above certain levels of risk 

tolerance. Profit and loss drawdowns are defined as the 

decline in net profit and loss since the year-to-date peak 

revenue level.
Earnings-at-risk 
The VaR and stress-test measures described above illustrate 

the economic sensitivity of the Firm’s Consolidated balance 

sheets to changes in market variables. The effect of interest 

rate exposure on the Firm’s reported net income is also 

important as interest rate risk represents one of the Firm’s 

significant market risks. Interest rate risk arises not only 

from trading activities but also from the Firm’s traditional 

banking activities, which include extension of loans and 

credit facilities, taking deposits and issuing debt. The Firm 

evaluates its structural interest rate risk exposure through 

earnings-at-risk, which measures the extent to which 

changes in interest rates will affect the Firm’s net interest 

income and interest rate-sensitive fees. Earnings-at-risk 

excludes the impact of CIB’s markets-based activities and 

MSRs, as these sensitivities are captured under VaR.
The CIO, Treasury and Corporate (“CTC”) Risk Committee 
establishes the Firm’s structural interest rate risk policies 

and market risk limits, which are subject to approval by the DRPC. The CIO, working in partnership with the lines of 

business, calculates the Firm’s structural interest rate risk 

profile and reviews it with senior management including the 

CTC Risk Committee and the Firm’s ALCO. In addition, 

oversight of structural interest rate risk is managed through 

a dedicated risk function reporting to the CTC CRO. This risk 

function is responsible for providing independent oversight 

and governance around assumptions and establishing and 

monitoring limits for structural interest rate risk. The Firm 

manages structural interest rate risk generally through its 

investment securities portfolio and interest rate derivatives.
Structural interest rate risk can occur due to a variety of 

factors, including:
• Differences in the timing among the maturity or 
repricing of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet 
instruments
• Differences in the amounts of assets, liabilities and off-
balance sheet instruments that are repricing at the same 

time• Differences in the amounts by which short-term and 
long-term market interest rates change (for example, 

changes in the slope of the yield curve)
• The impact of changes in the maturity of various assets, 
liabilities or off-balance sheet instruments as interest 

rates change
The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its 

assets and liabilities on a consolidated, firmwide basis. 
Business units transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury 

and CIO through a transfer-pricing system, which takes into 

account the elements of interest rate exposure that can be 

risk-managed in financial markets. These elements include 

asset and liability balances and contractual rates of interest, 

contractual principal payment schedules, expected 

prepayment experience, interest rate reset dates and 

maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and any interest 

rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All 

transfer-pricing assumptions are dynamically reviewed.
The Firm generates a net interest income baseline, and then 
conducts simulations of changes for interest rate-sensitive 

assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollar and other 

currencies (“non-U.S. dollar” currencies). Earnings-at-risk 

scenarios estimate the potential change in this net interest 

income baseline, excluding CIB’s markets-based activities 

and MSRs, over the following 12 months, utilizing multiple 

assumptions. These scenarios may consider the impact on 

exposures as a result of changes in interest rates from 

baseline rates, as well as pricing sensitivities of deposits, 

optionality and changes in product mix. The scenarios 

include forecasted balance sheet changes, as well as 

modeled prepayment and reinvestment behavior, but do not 

include assumptions about actions which could be taken by 
the Firm in response to any such instantaneous rate 

changes. For example, mortgage prepayment assumptions 

are based on current interest rates compared with 

underlying contractual rates, the time since origination, and 

other factors which are updated periodically based on 

historical experience. The Firm’s earnings-at-risk scenarios 

are periodically evaluated and enhanced in response to 

changes in the composition of the Firm’s balance sheet, 

changes in market conditions, improvements in the Firm’s 

simulation and other factors. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report139Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm conducts earnings-at-
risk simulations for assets and liabilities denominated in 

U.S. dollars separately from assets and liabilities 

denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies in order to 

enhance the Firm’s ability to monitor structural interest rate 

risk from non-U.S. dollar exposures.
The Firm’s U.S. dollar sensitivity is presented in the table 
below. The result of the non-U.S. dollar sensitivity scenarios 

were not material to the Firm’s earnings-at-risk at 

December 31, 2015.JPMorgan Chase’s 12-month pretax net interest income
sensitivity profiles(Excludes the impact of CIB’s markets-based activities andMSRs)(in billions)Instantaneous change in ratesDecember 31, 2015+200 bps+100 bps-100 bps-200 bps
U.S. dollar$5.2$3.1NM
(a)NM(a)(a) Downward 100- and 200-basis-points parallel shocks result in a 
federal funds target rate of zero and negative three- and six-month 
U.S. Treasury rates. The earnings-at-risk results of such a low 

probability scenario are not meaningful.
The Firm’s benefit to rising rates on U.S. dollar assets and 

liabilities is largely a result of reinvesting at higher yields 

and assets repricing at a faster pace than deposits. The 

Firm’s net U.S. dollar sensitivity profile at December 31, 

2015 was not materially different than December 31, 
2014. Separately, another U.S. dollar interest rate scenario used 
by the Firm — involving a steeper yield curve with long-term 
rates rising by 100 basis points and short-term rates 

staying at current levels — results in a 12-month pretax 

benefit to net interest income, excluding CIB’s markets-

based activities and MSRs, of approximately $700 million. 

The increase in net interest income under this scenario 

reflects the Firm reinvesting at the higher long-term rates, 

with funding costs remaining unchanged. The result of the 

comparable non-U.S. dollar scenario was not material to the 
Firm.
Non-U.S. dollar FX RiskNon-U.S. dollar FX risk is the risk that changes in foreign 

exchange rates affect the value of the Firm’s assets or 

liabilities or future results. The Firm has structural non-U.S. 

dollar FX exposures arising from capital investments, 

forecasted expense and revenue, the investment securities 

portfolio and issuing debt in denominations other than the 

U.S. dollar. Treasury and CIO, working in partnership with 

the lines of business, primarily manage these risks on 
behalf of the Firm. Treasury and CIO may hedge certain of 

these risks using derivatives within risk limits governed by 

the CTC Risk Committee.
Management’s discussion and analysis
140JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportCOUNTRY RISK MANAGEMENTCountry risk is the risk that a sovereign event or action 
alters the value or terms of contractual obligations of 

obligors, counterparties and issuers or adversely affects 

markets related to a particular country. The Firm has a 

comprehensive country risk management framework for 

assessing country risks, determining risk tolerance, and 

measuring and monitoring direct country exposures in the 

Firm. The Country Risk Management group is responsible 

for developing guidelines and policies for managing country 

risk in both emerging and developed countries. The Country 

Risk Management group actively monitors the various 

portfolios giving rise to country risk to ensure the Firm’s 

country risk exposures are diversified and that exposure 

levels are appropriate given the Firm’s strategy and risk 

tolerance relative to a country.
Country risk organization
The Country Risk Management group, part of the 

independent risk management function, works in close 
partnership with other risk functions to identify and 

monitor country risk within the Firm. The Firmwide Risk 

Executive for Country Risk reports to the Firm’s CRO.
Country Risk Management is responsible for the following 
functions:• Developing guidelines and policies consistent with a 
comprehensive country risk framework
• Assigning sovereign ratings and assessing country risks
• Measuring and monitoring country risk exposure and 

stress across the Firm
• Managing country limits and reporting trends and limit 

breaches to senior management
• Developing surveillance tools for early identification of 

potential country risk concerns
• Providing country risk scenario analysis
Country risk identific
ation and measurementThe Firm is exposed to country risk through its lending, 

investing, and market-making activities, whether cross-

border or locally funded. Country exposure includes activity 

with both government and private-sector entities in a 

country. Under the Firm’s internal country risk management 

approach, country exposure is reported based on the 

country where the majority of the assets of the obligor, 

counterparty, issuer or guarantor are located or where the 

majority of its revenue is derived, which may be different 

than the domicile (legal residence) or country of 

incorporation of the obligor, counterparty, issuer or 

guarantor. Country exposures are generally measured by 

considering the Firm’s risk to an immediate default of the 

counterparty or obligor, with zero recovery. Assumptions 

are sometimes required in determining the measurement 

and allocation of country exposure, particularly in the case 

of certain tranched credit derivatives. Different 

measurement approaches or assumptions would affect the 

amount of reported country exposure.
Under the Firm’s internal country risk measurement 
framework:
• Lending exposures are measured at the total committed 
amount (funded and unfunded), net of the allowance for 

credit losses and cash and marketable securities 

collateral received
• Securities financing exposures are measured at their 

receivable balance, net of collateral received
• Debt and equity securities are measured at the fair value 

of all positions, including both long and short positions
• Counterparty exposure on derivative receivables is 

measured at the derivative’s fair value, net of the fair 

value of the related collateral. Counterparty exposure on 

derivatives can change significantly because of market 

movements
• Credit derivatives protection purchased and sold is 

reported based on the underlying reference entity and is 

measured at the notional amount of protection 

purchased or sold, net of the fair value of the recognized 

derivative receivable or payable. Credit derivatives 

protection purchased and sold in the Firm’s market-

making activities is measured on a net basis, as such 

activities often result in selling and purchasing 

protection related to the same underlying reference 

entity; this reflects the manner in which the Firm 

manages these exposures
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report141The Firm also has indirect exposures to country risk (for 
example, related to the collateral received on securities 

financing receivables or related to client clearing activities). 

These indirect exposures are managed in the normal course 

of business through the Firm’s credit, market, and 

operational risk governance, rather than through Country 

Risk Management.
The Firm’s internal country risk reporting differs from the 
reporting provided under the FFIEC bank regulatory 

requirements. For further information on the FFIEC’s 

reporting methodology, see Cross-border outstandings on 

page 327.Country risk stress testing
The country risk stress fram
ework aims to identify potential 
losses arising from a country crisis by capturing the impact 

of large asset price movements in a country based on 

market shocks combined with counterparty specific 

assumptions. Country Risk Management periodically defines 

and runs ad hoc stress scenarios for individual countries in 

response to specific market events and sector performance 

concerns.Country risk monitoring and control
The Country Risk Management group establishes guidelines 

for sovereign ratings reviews and limit management. 

Country stress and nominal exposures are measured under 

a comprehensive country limit fram
ework. Country ratings 
and limits are actively monitored and reported on a regular 

basis. Country limit requirements are reviewed and 

approved by senior management as often as necessary, but 

at least annually. In addition, the Country Risk Management 

group uses surveillance tools, such as signaling models and 

ratings indicators, for early identification of potential 

country risk concerns.
Country risk reporting

The following table presents the Firm’s top 20 exposures by 

country (excluding the U.S.) as of December 31, 2015. The 

selection of countries is based solely on the Firm’s largest 

total exposures by country, based on the Firm’s internal 

country risk management approach, and does not represent 

the Firm’s view of any actual or potentially adverse credit 

conditions. Country exposures may fluctuate from period to 

period due to normal client activity and market flows.
Top 20 country exposuresDecember 31, 2015(in billions)Lending
(a)Trading and 
investing
(b)(c)
Other(d)TotalexposureUnited Kingdom$23.8$21.8$1.1$46.7
Germany13.816.70.230.7
France14.211.90.126.2
Japan12.97.80.421.1
China10.37.21.018.5
Canada13.92.90.317.1
Australia7.75.9—13.6
Netherlands5.06.01.412.4
India6.15.60.412.1
Brazil6.24.9—11.1
Switzerland6.70.91.99.5
Korea4.33.30.17.7
Hong Kong2.82.61.46.8
Italy2.83.80.26.8
Luxembourg6.40.1—6.5
Spain3.22.10.15.4
Singapore2.41.30.74.4
Sweden1.72.5—4.2
Mexico2.91.3—4.2
Belgium1.72.3—4.0
(a) Lending includes loans and accrued interest receivable (net of 
collateral and the allowance for loan losses), deposits with banks, 

acceptances, other monetary assets, issued letters of credit net of 

participations, and unused commitments to extend credit. Excludes 

intra-day and operating exposures, such as from settlement and 

clearing activities.
(b) Includes market-making inventory, AFS securities, counterparty 
exposure on derivative and securities financings net of collateral and 

hedging.
(c) Includes single reference entity (“single-name”), index and tranched 
credit derivatives for which one or more of the underlying reference 

entities is in a country listed in the above table.
(d) Includes capital invested in local entities and physical commodity 
inventory.
142JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportMODEL RISK MANAGEMENTModel riskModel risk is the potential for adverse consequences from 

decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and 

reports.
The Firm uses models for many purposes including the 
valuation of positions and the measurement of risk. 

Valuation models are employed by the Firm to value certain 

financial instruments for which quoted prices may not be 

readily available. Valuation models may be employed as 

inputs into risk measurement models including VaR, 

regulatory capital, estimation of stress loss and the 

allowance for credit losses.
Models are owned by various functions within the Firm 
based on the specific purposes of such models. For 

example, VaR models and certain regulatory capital models 

are owned by the line of business-aligned risk management 

functions. Owners of models are responsible for the 

development, implementation and testing of their models, 

as well as referral of models to the Model Risk function for 

review and approval. Once models have been approved, model owners are responsible for the maintenance of a 

robust operating environment and must monitor and 

evaluate the performance of the models on an ongoing 

basis. Model owners may seek to enhance models in 

response to changes in the portfolios and in product and 

market developments, as well as to capture improvements in available modeling techniques and systems capabilities.
The Model Risk review and governance functions review and 
approve a wide range of models, including risk management, valuation, and regulatory capital models used 

by the Firm. Independent of the model owners, the Model 

Risk review and governance functions are part of the Firm’s 

Model Risk unit, and the Firmwide Model Risk Executive 

reports to the Firm’s CRO.
Models are tiered based on an internal standard according 

to their complexity, the exposure associated with the model 

and the Firm’s reliance on the model. This tiering is subject 

to the approval of the Model Risk function. A model review 
conducted by the Model Risk function considers the model’s 

suitability for the specific uses to which it will be put. The 

factors considered in reviewing a model include whether the 

model accurately reflects the characteristics of the product 

and its significant risks, the selection and reliability of 

model inputs, consistency with models for similar products, 

the appropriateness of any model-related adjustments, and 

sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that cannot 

be observed from the market. When reviewing a model, the 

Model Risk function analyzes and challenges the model 

methodology and the reasonableness of model assumptions 

and may perform or require additional testing, including 

back-testing of model outcomes. Model reviews are 

approved by the appropriate level of management within 

the Model Risk function based on the relevant tier of the 

model.Under the Firm’s Model Risk Policy, the Model Risk function 
reviews and approves new models, as well as material 

changes to existing models, prior to implementation in the 

operating environment. In certain circumstances, the head 

of the Model Risk function may grant exceptions to the 

Firm’s model risk policy to allow a model to be used prior to 

review or approval. The Model Risk function may also 

require the owner to take appropriate actions to mitigate 

the model risk if it is to be used in the interim. These actions 
will depend on the model and may include, for example, 

limitation of trading activity.
For a summary of valuations based on models, see Critical 
Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm and Note 3.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report143PRINCIPAL RISK MANAGEMENTPrincipal investments are predominantly privately-held 
financial assets and instruments, typically representing an 

ownership or junior capital position, that have unique risks 

due to their illiquidity or for which there is less observable 

market or valuation data. Such investing activities are 

typically intended to be held over extended investment 

periods and, accordingly, the Firm has no expectation for 

short-term gain with respect to these investments. Principal 

investments cover multiple asset classes and are made 

either in stand-alone investing businesses or as part of a 

broader business platform. Asset classes include tax-

oriented investments (e.g., affordable housing and 

alternative energy investments), private equity and various 

debt investments.
The Firm’s principal investments are managed under 

various lines of business and are captured within the 

respective LOB’s financial results. The Firm’s approach to 

managing principal risk is consistent with the Firm’s general 

risk governance structure. A Firmwide risk policy framework 

exists for all principal investing activities. All investments 

are approved by investment committees that include 

executives who are independent from the investing 

businesses. The Firm’s independent control functions are 

responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of the 

carrying value of principal inv
estments in accordance with relevant policies. Approved levels for such investments are 

established for each relevant business in order to manage 

the overall size of the portfolios. Industry, geographic, and 

position level concentration limits are in place and are 

intended to ensure diversification of the portfolios. The 

Firm also conducts stress testing on these portfolios using 

specific scenarios that estimate losses based on significant 
market moves and/or other risk events. 
Management’s discussion and analysis
144JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportOPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENTOperational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate 
or failed processes or systems, human factors or due to 

external events that are neither market- nor credit-related. 

Operational risk is inherent in the Firm’s activities and can 

manifest itself in various ways, including fraudulent acts, 

business interruptions, inappropriate behavior of 

employees, failure to comply with applicable laws and 

regulations or failure of vendors to perform in accordance 

with their arrangements. These events could result in 

financial losses, litigation and regulatory fines, as well as 

other damage to the Firm. The goal is to keep operational 

risk at appropriate levels, in light of the Firm’s financial 

strength, the characteristics of its businesses, the markets 

in which it operates, and the competitive and regulatory 

environment to which it is subject.
Overview
To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains 

an Operational Risk Management Framework (“ORMF”) 

designed to enable the Firm to maintain a sound and well-

controlled operational environment. The four main 

components of the ORMF include: governance, risk 

identification and assessment, monitoring and reporting, 

and measurement.
Risk Management is responsible for prescribing the ORMF to 
the lines of business and corporate functions and for 

providing independent oversight of its implementation. The 

lines of business and corporate functions are responsible 

for implementing the ORMF. The Firmwide Oversight and 

Control Group (“O&C”), which consists of dedicated control 

officers within each of the lines of business and corporate 

functional areas, as well as a central oversight team, is 

responsible for day to day execution of the ORMF.
Operational risk management framework
The components of the Operational Risk Management 

Framework are:
Governance
The Firm’s operational risk governance function reports to 

the Firm’s CRO and is responsible for defining the ORMF and 

establishing the firmwide operational risk management 

governance structure, policies and standards. The Firmwide 

Risk Executive for Operational Risk Governance, a direct 

report of the CRO, works with the line of business CROs to 

provide independent oversight of the implementation of the 

ORMF across the Firm. Operational Risk Officers (“OROs”), 

who report to the LOB Chief Risk Officers or to the Firmwide 

Risk Executive for Operational Risk Governance, are 

independent of the lines of business and corporate 

functions, and O&C. The OROs provide oversight of the 

implementation of the ORMF within in each line of business 
and corporate function.
Line of business, corporate function and regional control 

committees oversee the operational risk and control 

environments of their respective businesses, functions or 

regions. These committees escalate operational risk issues 

to the FCC, as appropriate. For additional information on 

the Firmwide Control Committee, see Enterprise Risk 

Management on pages 107–111.Risk Identification and Self-Assessment
In order to evaluate and monitor operational risk, the lines 

of business and corporate functions utilize several 

processes to identify, assess, mitigate and manage 

operational risk. Firmwide standards are in place for each of 

these processes and set the minimum requirements for how 

they must be applied.
The Firm’s risk and control self-assessment (“RCSA”) 
process and supporting architecture requires management 

to identify material inherent operational risks, assess the 

design and operating effectiveness of relevant controls in 

place to mitigate such risks, and evaluate residual risk. 

Action plans are developed for control issues that are 

identified, and businesses are held accountable for tracking 

and resolving issues on a timely basis. Risk Management 

performs an independent challenge of the RCSA program 

including residual risk results.
The Firm also tracks and monitors operational risk events 
which are analyzed by the responsible businesses and 

corporate functions. This enables identification of the root 

causes of the operational risk events and evaluation of the 

associated controls.
Furthermore, lines of business and corporate functions 
establish key risk indicators to manage and monitor 

operational risk and the control environment. These assist 

in the early detection and timely escalation of issues or 
events.
Risk monitoring and reporting
Operational risk management and control reports provide 

information, including actual operational loss levels, self-

assessment results and the status of issue resolution to the 

lines of business and senior management. In addition, key 

control indicators and operating metrics are monitored 

against targets and thresholds. The purpose of these 

reports is to enable management to maintain operational 

risk at appropriate levels within each line of business, to 

escalate issues and to provide consistent data aggregation 

across the Firm’s businesses and functions.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report145Measurement
Two standard forms of operational risk measurement 

include operational risk capital and operational risk losses 

under baseline and stressed conditions.
The Firm’s operational risk capital methodology 
incorporates the four required elements of the Advanced 

Measurement Approach under the Basel III framework:
• Internal losses,

• External losses,

• Scenario analysis, and

• Business environment and internal control factors.
The primary component of the operational risk capital 
estimate is the result of a statistical model, the Loss 

Distribution Approach (“LDA”), which simulates the 

frequency and severity of future operational risk losses 

based on historical data. The LDA model is used to estimate 

an aggregate operational risk loss over a one-year time 

horizon, at a 99.9% confidence level. The LDA model 

incorporates actual internal operational risk losses in the 

quarter following the period in which those losses were 

realized, and the calculation generally continues to reflect 

such losses even after the issues or business activities 

giving rise to the losses have been remediated or reduced.
The calculation is supplemented by external loss data as 
needed, as well as both management’s view of plausible tail 

risk, which is captured as part of the Scenario Analysis 

process, and evaluation of key LOB internal control metrics 

(BEICF). The Firm may further supplement such analysis to 

incorporate feedback from its bank regulators.
The Firm considers the impact of stressed economic 
conditions on operational risk losses and a forward looking 

view of material operational risk events that may occur in a 

stressed environment. The Firm’s operational risk stress 

testing framework is utilized in calculating results for the 

Firm’s CCAR, ICAAP and Risk Appetite processes.
For information related to operational risk RWA, CCAR or 
ICAAP, see Capital Management section, pages 149–158.
Insurance
One of the ways operational loss may be mitigated is 

through insurance maintained by the Firm. The Firm 

purchases insurance to be in compliance with local laws and 

regulations (e.g., workers compensation), as well as to 
serve other 
needs (e.g., property loss and public liability). 
Insurance may also be required by third parties with whom 

the Firm does business. The insurance purchased is 

reviewed and approved by senior management.
CybersecurityThe Firm devotes significant resources maintaining and 

regularly updating its systems and processes that are 

designed to protect the security of the Firm’s computer 

systems, software, networks and other technology assets 

against attempts by unauthorized parties to obtain access 

to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or 

degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage. 
Third parties with which the Firm does business or that 

facilitate the Firm’s business 
activities 
(e.g., vendors, 
exchanges, clearing houses, central depositories, and 

financial intermediaries) could also be sources of 

cybersecurity risk to the Firm, including with respect to 

breakdowns or failures of their systems, misconduct by the 

employees of such parties, or cyberattacks which could 

affect their ability to deliver a product or service to the Firm 

or result in lost or compromised information of the Firm or 

its clients. In addition, customers with which or whom the 

Firm does business can also be sources of cybersecurity risk 

to the Firm, particularly when their activities and systems 

are beyond the Firm’s own security and control systems. 

Customers will generally be responsible for losses incurred 

due to their own failure to maintain the security of their 

own systems and processes.
The Firm and several other U.S. financial institutions have 
experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks 

from technically sophisticated and well-resourced 

unauthorized parties which are intended to disrupt online 

banking services. The Firm and its clients are also regularly 

targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious code and 

viruses. On September 10, 2014, the Firm disclosed that a 

cyberattack against the Firm had occurred. The 

cyberattacks experienced to date have not resulted in any 

material disruption to the Firm’s operations nor have they 

had a material adverse effect on the Firm’s results of 

operations. The Firm’s Board of Directors and the Audit 

Committee are regularly apprised regarding the 

cybersecurity policies and practices of the Firm as well as 

the Firm’s efforts regarding significant cybersecurity events.
Cybersecurity attacks, like the one experienced by the Firm, 
highlight the need for continued and increased cooperation 

among businesses and the government, and the Firm 

continues to work to strengthen its partnerships with the 

appropriate government and law enforcement agencies and 

other businesses, including the Firm’s third-party service 

providers, in order to understand the full spectrum of 

cybersecurity risks in the environment, enhance defenses 

and improve resiliency against cybersecurity threats.
The Firm has established, and continues to establish, 

defenses to mitigate other possible future attacks. To 

enhance its defense capabilities, the Firm increased 

cybersecurity spending from approximately $250 million in 

2014, to approximately $500 million in 2015, and expects 

the spending to increase to more than $600 million in 

2016. Enhancements include more robust testing, advanced 

analytics, improved technology coverage, strengthened 

access management and controls and a program to increase 

employee awareness about cybersecurity risks and best 

practices.
Business and technology resiliency
JPMorgan Chase’s global resiliency and crisis management 

program is intended to ensure that the Firm has the ability 

to recover its critical business functions and supporting 

assets (i.e., staff, technology and facilities) in the event of a 
Management’s discussion and analysis
146JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportbusiness interruption, and to remain in compliance with 
global laws and regulations as they relate to resiliency risk. 

The program includes corporate governance, awareness and 

training, as well as strategic and tactical initiatives aimed to 

ensure that risks are properly identified, assessed, and 

managed.The Firm has established comprehensive tracking and 
reporting of resiliency plans in order to proactively 

anticipate and manage various potential disruptive 

circumstances such as severe weather and flooding, 

technology and communications outages, cyber incidents, 

mass transit shutdowns and terrorist threats, among others. 

The resiliency measures utilized by the Firm include backup 

infrastructure for data centers, a geographically distributed 

workforce, dedicated recovery facilities, providing 

technological capabilities to support remote work capacity 

for displaced staff and accommodation of employees at 

alternate locations. JPMorgan Chase continues to 

coordinate its global resiliency program across the Firm and 

mitigate business continuity risks by reviewing and testing 

recovery procedures. The strength and proficiency of the 

Firm’s global resiliency program has played an integral role 

in maintaining the Firm’s business operations during and 

quickly after various events in 2015 that have resulted in 

business interruptions, such as severe winter weather and 

flooding in the U.S. and various global protest-related 

activities.LEGAL RISK MANAGEMENTLegal risk is the risk of loss or imposition of damages, fines, 
penalties or other liability arising from failure to comply 

with a contractual obligation or to comply with laws or 

regulations to which the Firm is subject.
Overview
In addition to providing legal services and advice to the 

Firm, and communicating and helping the lines of business 

adjust to the legal and regulatory changes they face, 

including the heightened scrutiny and expectations of the 

Firm’s regulators, the global Legal function is responsible 

for working with the businesses and corporate functions to 

fully understand and assess their adherence to laws and 

regulations. In particular, Legal assists Oversight & Control, 

Risk, Finance, Compliance and Internal Audit in their efforts 

to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and 

regulations and the Firm’s corporate standards for doing 

business. The Firm’s lawyers also advise the Firm on 

potential legal exposures on key litigation and transactional 

matters, and perform a significant defense and advocacy 

role by defending the Firm against claims and potential 

claims and, when needed, pursuing claims against others. 
Governance and oversight
The Firm’s General Counsel reports to the CEO and is a 

member of the Operating Committee, the Firmwide Risk 

Committee and the Firmwide Control Committee. The 

General Counsel’s leadership team includes a General 

Counsel for each line of business, the heads of the Litigation 

and Corporate & Regulatory practices, as well as the Firm’s 

Corporate Secretary. Each region (e.g., Latin America, Asia 

Pacific) has a General Counsel who is responsible for 

managing legal risk across all lines of business and 

functions in the region.
Legal works with various committees (including new 
business initiative and reputation risk committees) and the 

Firm’s businesses to protect the Firm’s reputation beyond 

any particular legal requirements. In addition, it advises the 

Firm’s Conflicts Office which reviews the Firm’s wholesale 

transactions that may have the potential to create conflicts 

of interest for the Firm.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report147COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENTCompliance risk is the risk of failure to comply with 
applicable laws, rules, and regulations. 
Overview
Each line of business is accountable for managing its 

compliance risk. The Firm’s Compliance Organization 

(“Compliance”), which is independent of the lines of 

business, works closely with the Operating Committee and 

management to provide independent review, monitoring 

and oversight of business operations with a focus on 

compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations 

applicable to the offering of the Firm’s products and 

services to clients and customers.
These compliance risks relate to a wide variety of legal and 
regulatory obligations, depending on the line of business 

and the jurisdiction, and include those related to products 

and services, relationships and interactions with clients and 

customers, and employee activities. 
For example, one compliance risk, fiduciary risk, is the 
failure to exercise the applicable high standard of care, to 

act in the best interests of clients or to treat clients fairly, as 

required under applicable law or regulation. Other specific 

compliance risks include those associated with anti-money 
laundering compliance, trading activities, market conduct, 

and complying with the rules and regulations related to the 

offering of products and services across jurisdictional 

borders, among others. 
Compliance implements various practices designed to 
identify and mitigate compliance risk by implementing 

policies, testing and monitoring, training and providing 

guidance.
In recent years, the Firm has experienced heightened 
scrutiny by its regulators of its compliance with regulations, 

and with respect to its controls and operational processes. 

In certain instances, the Firm has entered into Consent 

Orders with its regulators requiring the Firm to take certain 

specified actions to remediate compliance with regulations 

and improve its controls. The Firm expects that such 
regulatory scrutiny will continue. 
Governance and oversight

Compliance is led by the Firms’ Chief Compliance Officer 

(“CCO”) who reports directly to the Firm’s COO. The Firm 

maintains oversight and coordination in its Compliance Risk 

Management practices globally through the Firm’s CCO, 

lines of business CCOs and regional CCOs to implement the 

Compliance program across the lines of business and 

regions. The Firm’s CCO is a member of the Firmwide 

Control Committee and the Firmwide Risk Committee. The 

Firm’s CCO also provides regular updates to the Audit 

Committee and DRPC. In addition, from time to time, special 

committees of the Board have been established to oversee 

the Firm’s compliance with regulatory Consent Orders. 
The Firm has in place a Code of Conduct (the “Code”), and 
each employee is given annual training in respect of the 

Code and is required annually to affirm his or her 

compliance with the Code. The Code sets forth the Firm’s 

core principles and fundamental values, including that no 

employee should ever sacrifice integrity - or give the 

impression that he or she has. The Code requires prompt 

reporting of any known or suspected violation of the Code, 

any internal Firm policy, or any law or regulation applicable 

to the Firm’s business. It also requires the reporting of any 

illegal conduct, or conduct that violates the underlying 

principles of the Code, by any of the Firm’s employees, 

customers, suppliers, contract workers, business partners, 

or agents. Specified employees are specially trained and 

designated as “code specialists” who act as a resource to 

employees on Code of Conduct matters. In addition, 

concerns may be reported anonymously and the Firm 

prohibits retaliation against employees for the good faith 

reporting of any actual or suspected violations of the Code. 

The Code and the associated employee compliance program 

are focused on the regular assessment of certain key 

aspects of the Firm’s culture and conduct initiatives.
 148JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportREPUTATION RISK MANAGEMENTReputation risk is the risk that an action, transaction, 
investment or event will reduc
e trust in the Firm’s integrity 
or competence by our various constituents, including 

clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees 

and the broader public. 
Maintaining the Firm’s reputation is 
the responsibility of each individual employee of the Firm. 

The Firm’s Reputation Risk Governance policy explicitly 

vests each employee with the responsibility to consider the 

reputation of the Firm when engaging in any activity. Since 

the types of events that could harm the Firm’s reputation 

are so varied across the Firm’s lines of business, each line of 

business has a separate reputation risk governance 

infrastructure in place, which consists of three key 

elements: clear, documented escalation criteria appropriate 

to the business; a designated primary discussion forum — in 

most cases, one or more dedicated reputation risk 

committees; and a list of designated contacts, to whom 

questions relating to reputation risk should be referred. 

Line of business reputation risk governance is overseen by a 

Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance function, which 

provides oversight of the governance infrastructure and 

process to support the consistent identification, escalation, 

management and reporting of reputation risk issues 

firmwide.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report149CAPITAL MANAGEMENTCapital risk is the risk the Firm has an insufficient level and 
composition of capital to support the Firm’s business 

activities and associated risks during normal economic 

environments and stressed conditions.
A strong capital position is essential to the Firm’s business 
strategy and competitive position. The Firm’s capital 

strategy focuses on long-term stability, which enables the 

Firm to build and invest in market-leading businesses, even 

in a highly stressed environment. Prior to making any 

decisions on future business activities, senior management 

considers the implications on the Firm’s capital. In addition 

to considering the Firm’s earnings outlook, senior 

management evaluates all sources and uses of capital with 

a view to preserving the Firm’s capital strength. Maintaining 

a strong balance sheet to manage through economic 

volatility is considered a strategic imperative by the Firm’s 

Board of Directors, CEO and Operating Committee. The 

Firm’s balance sheet philosophy focuses on risk-adjusted 

returns, strong capital and reserves, and robust liquidity.
The Firm’s capital management objectives are to hold 

capital sufficient to:
• Cover all material risks underlying the Firm’s business 
activities;• Maintain “well-capitalized” status and meet regulatory 

capital requirements;
• Retain flexibility to take advantage of future investment 

opportunities;
• Maintain sufficient capital in order to continue to build 

and invest in its businesses through the cycle and in 

stressed environments; and
• Distribute excess capital to shareholders while balancing 
the other objectives stated 
above.These objectives are achieved through ongoing monitoring 

and management of the Firm’s capital position, regular 

stress testing, and a capital governance framework. Capital 

management is intended to be flexible in order to react to a 

range of potential events. JPMorgan Chase has firmwide and 

LOB processes for ongoing monitoring and active 

management of its capital position. 
Management’s discussion and analysis
150JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following tables present the Firm’s Transitional and Fully Phased-In risk-based and leverage-based capital metrics under 
both Basel III Standardized and Advanced approaches. The Firm’s Basel III CET1 ratio exceeds the regulatory minimum as of 

December 31, 2015. For further discussion of these capital metrics and the Standardized and Advanced approaches refer to 

Monitoring and management of capital on pages 151–155. 
TransitionalFully Phased-InDecember 31, 2015
(in millions, except ratios)
StandardizedAdvanced
Minimum capital ratios 
(c)
StandardizedAdvanced
Minimum capital ratios 
(d)Risk-based capital metrics:CET1 capital$175,398$175,398
$173,189$173,189
Tier 1 capital200,482200,482
199,047199,047
Total capital234,413224,616
229,976220,179
Risk-weighted assets1,465,262(b)1,485,3361,474,8701,495,520
CET1 capital ratio12.0%11.8%4.5%11.7%11.6%
10.5%Tier 1 capital ratio13.713.56.013.513.312.0Total capital ratio16.015.18.015.614.714.0Leverage-based capital metrics:Adjusted average assets2,361,1772,361,177
2,360,4992,360,499
Tier 1 leverage ratio
(a)8.5%8.5%4.08.4%8.4%4.0SLR leverage exposureNA$3,079,797
NA$3,079,119
SLRNA6.5%NANA6.5%5.0(e)TransitionalFully Phased-InDecember 31, 2014
(in millions, except ratios)
StandardizedAdvanced
Minimum capital ratios 
(c)
StandardizedAdvanced
Minimum capital ratios 
(d)Risk-based capital metrics:CET1 capital$164,426$164,426
$164,514$164,514
Tier 1 capital186,263186,263
184,572184,572
Total capital221,117210,576
216,719206,179
Risk-weighted assets1,472,602(b)1,608,2401,561,1451,619,287
CET1 capital ratio11.2%10.2%4.5%10.5%10.2%9.5%
Tier 1 capital ratio12.611.66.0
11.811.411.0
Total capital ratio15.013.18.0
13.912.713.0
Leverage-based capital metrics:Adjusted average assets2,464,9152,464,915
2,463,9022,463,902
Tier 1 leverage ratio
(a)7.6%7.6%4.0
7.5%7.5%4.0
SLR leverage exposureNANANA$3,320,404
SLRNANANA
NA5.6%5.0
(e)Note: As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the lower of the Standardized or Advanced capital ratios under each of the transitional
 and fully phased in approaches in the table above 
represents the Firm’s Collins Floor, as discussed in Monitoring and management of Capital on page 151. 
(a) The Tier 1 leverage ratio is not a risk-based measure of capital. This ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted average assets.
(b) Effective January 1, 2015, the Basel III Standardized RWA is calculated under the Basel III definition of the Standardized 
approach. Prior periods were based on Basel I (inclusive 
of Basel 2.5).(c) Represents the transitional minimum capital ratios applicable to the Firm under Basel III as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.
 (d) Represents the minimum capital ratios applicable to the Firm on a fully phased-in Basel III basis. At December 31, 2015, th
e ratios include the Firm’s estimate of its Fully 
Phased-In U.S. GSIB surcharge of 3.5%, based on the final U.S. GSIB rule published by the Federal Reserve on July 20, 2015. At 
December 31, 2014, the ratios included the 
Firm’s GSIB surcharge of 2.5% which was published in November 2014 by the Financial Stability Board and calculated under the Ba
sel Committee on Banking Supervisions Final 
GSIB rule. The minimum capital ratios will be fully phased-in effective January 1, 2019. For additional information on the GSIB surcharge, see page 152.
(e) In the case of the SLR, the fully phased-in minimum ratio is effective beginning January 1, 2018. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report151Strategy and governance
The Firm’s CEO, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, 

establishes principles and guidelines for capital planning, 

issuance, usage and distributions, and establishes capital 

targets for the level and composition of capital in both 

business-as-usual and highly stressed environments.
The Firm’s senior management recognizes the importance 
of a capital management function that supports strategic 

decision-making. The Capital Governance Committee and 

the Regulatory Capital Management Office (“RCMO”) are 

key components in support of this objective. The Capital 

Governance Committee is responsible for reviewing the 

Firm’s Capital Management Policy and the principles 

underlying capital issuance and distribution alternatives. 

The Committee is also responsible for governing the capital 

adequacy assessment process, including overall design, 

assumptions and risk streams, and ensuring that capital 

stress test programs are designed to adequately capture the 

idiosyncratic risks across the Firm’s businesses. RCMO, 

which reports to the Firm’s CFO, is responsible for 

reviewing, approving and monitoring the implementation of 

the Firm’s capital policies and strategies, as well as its 

capital adequacy assessment process. The review assesses 

the effectiveness of the capital adequacy process, the 

appropriateness of the risk tolerance levels, and the 

strength of the control infrastructure. The DRPC oversees 

the Firm’s capital adequacy process and its components. 

The Basel Independent Review function (“BIR”), which 

reports to the RCMO and the Capital Governance 

Committee, conducts independent assessments of the Firm’s 

regulatory capital framework to ensure compliance with the 

applicable U.S. Basel rules in support of the DRPC’s and 

senior management’s oversight of the Firm’s capital 

processes. For additional discussion on the DRPC, see 

Enterprise-wide Risk Management on pages 107–111.
Monitoring and management of capital In its monitoring and management of capital, the Firm takes 

into consideration an assessment of economic risk and all 

regulatory capital requirements to determine the level of 

capital needed to meet and maintain the objectives 

discussed above, as well as to support 
the framework for allocating capital to its business segments. While economic 

risk is considered prior to making decisions on future 

business activities, in most cases, the Firm considers risk-

based regulatory capital to be a proxy for economic risk 

capital.Regulatory capital 
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, 

including well capitalized standards, for the consolidated 

financial holding company. The OCC establishes similar 

minimum capital requirements for the Firm’s national 

banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and 

Chase Bank USA, N.A. 
The U.S. capital requirements generally follow the Capital 
Accord of the Basel Committee, as amended from time to 

time. Prior to January 1, 2014, the Firm and its banking 

subsidiaries were subject to the capital requirements of 

Basel I and Basel 2.5. Effective January 1, 2014, the Firm 

became subject to Basel III (which incorporates Basel 2.5).
Basel III overview

Basel III capital rules, for large and internationally active 

U.S. bank holding companies and banks, including the Firm 

and its insured depository institution (“IDI”) subsidiaries, 

revised, among other things, the definition of capital and 

introduced a new CET1 capital requirement. Basel III 

presents two comprehensive methodologies for calculating 

RWA, a general (Standardized) approach, which replaced 

Basel I RWA effective January 1, 2015 (“Basel III 

Standardized”) and an advanced approach, which replaced 

Basel II RWA (“Basel III Advanced”); and sets out minimum 

capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards. 

Certain of the requirements of Basel III are subject to 

phase-in periods that began on January 1, 2014 and 

continue through the end of 2018 (“transitional period”). 
The capital adequacy of the Firm and its national bank 
subsidiaries is evaluated against the Basel III approach 

(Standardized or Advanced) which results in the lower ratio 

(the “Collins Floor”), as required by the Collins Amendment 

of the Dodd-Frank Act.
Basel III establishes capital requirements for calculating 

credit risk and market risk RWA, and in the case of Basel III 

Advanced, operational risk RWA. Key differences in the 

calculation of credit risk RWA between the Standardized 

and Advanced approaches are that for Basel III Advanced, 

credit risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive approaches which 

largely rely on the use of internal credit models and 

parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized, credit risk 

RWA is generally based on supervisory risk-weightings 

which vary primarily by counterparty type and asset class. 

Market risk RWA is calculated on a generally consistent 

basis between Basel III Standardized and Basel III 

Advanced, both of which incorporate the requirements set 

forth in Basel 2.5. In addition to the RWA calculated under 

these methodologies, the Firm may supplement such 

amounts to incorporate management judgment and 

feedback from its bank regulators.
Basel III also includes a requirement for Advanced 
Approach banking organizations, including the Firm, to 

calculate a Supplementary Leverage Ratio (“SLR”). For 

additional information on SLR, see page 155.   
Basel III Fully Phased-In

Basel III capital rules will become fully phased-in on January 

1, 2019, at which point the Firm will continue to calculate 

its capital ratios under both the Basel III Standardized and 

Advanced Approaches. While the Firm has imposed Basel III 

Standardized Fully Phased-In RWA limits on its lines of 

business, the Firm continues to manage each of the 

businesses (including line of business equity allocations), as 

well as the corporate functions, primarily on a Basel III 

Advanced Fully Phased-In basis.
The Firm’s capital, RWA and capital ratios that are 
presented under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully 

Phased-In rules and the Firm’s and JPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A.’s and Chase Bank USA, N.A.’s SLRs calculated under the 

Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In rules are non-GAAP 

financial measures. However, such measures are used by 

banking regulators, investors and analysts to assess the 
Management’s discussion and analysis
152JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportFirm’s capital position and to compare the Firm’s capital to 
that of other financial services companies.
The Firm’s estimates of its Basel III Standardized and 
Advanced Fully Phased-In capital, RWA and capital ratios 

and of the Firm’s, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s, and Chase 

Bank USA, N.A.’s SLRs reflect management’s current 

understanding of the U.S. Basel III rules based on the 

current published rules and on the application of such rules 

to the Firm’s businesses as currently conducted. The actual 
impact on the Firm’s capital ratios and SLR as of the 

effective date of the rules may differ from the Firm’s current 

estimates depending on changes the Firm may make to its 

businesses in the future, further implementation guidance 

from the regulators, 
and regulatory 
approval of certain of 
the Firm’s internal risk models (or, alternatively, regulatory 

disapproval of the Firm’s in
ternal risk models that have previously been conditionally approved).Risk-based capital regulatory minimums

The following chart presents the Basel III minimum CET1 capital ratio during the transitional periods and on a fully phased-in 

basis under the Basel III rules currently in effect. 
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, JPMorgan Chase 
maintained Basel III Standardized Transitional and Basel III 

Advanced Transitional capital ratios in excess of the well-
capitalized standards established by the Federal Reserve. 
Additional information regarding the Firm’s capital ratios, as 
well as the U.S. federal regulatory capital standards to 
which the Firm is subject, is presented in Note 28. For 

further information on the Firm’s Basel III measures, see the 

Firm’s Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which 
are available on the Firm’s website (http://
investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).
All banking institutions are currently required to have a 
minimum capital ratio of 4.5% of CET1 capital. Certain 
banking organizations, including the Firm, will be required 
to hold additional amounts of capital to serve as a “capital 
conservation buffer.” The capital conservation buffer is 
intended to be used to absorb potential losses in times of financial or economic stress. If not maintained, the Firm 
could be limited in the amount of capital that may be 
distributed, including dividends and common equity 
repurchases. The capital conservation buffer is to be 
phased-in over time, beginning January 1, 2016 through 
January 1, 2019. 
When fully phased-in, the capital conservation buffer 
requires an additional 2.5% of CET1 capital, as well as 
additional levels of capital in the form of a GSIB surcharge 
and the recently implemented countercyclical capital buffer. 

On July 20, 2015, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule 
requiring GSIBs to calculate their GSIB surcharge, on an 
annual basis, under two separately prescribed methods, and 
to be subject to the higher of the two. The first method 
(“Method 1”) reflects the GSIB surcharge as prescribed by 
Basel rules, and is calculated across five criteria: size, cross-
jurisdictional activity, interconnectedness, complexity and 
substitutability. The second method (“Method 2”) modifies 
the requirements to include a measure of short-term 
wholesale funding in place of substitutability, and 
introduces a GSIB score “multiplication factor.” Based upon 
data as of December 31, 2015, the Firm estimates its fully 
phased-in GSIB surcharge would be 2% of CET1 capital 
under Method 1 and 3.5% under Method 2. On July 20, 2015, the date of the last published estimate, the Federal 
Reserve had estimated the Firm’s GSIB surcharge to be 
2.5% under Method 1 and 4.5% under Method 2 as of December 31, 2014. JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report153The countercyclical capital buffer is a potential expansion of 
the capital conservation buffer that 
takes into account the macro financial environment in which large, internationally 

active banks function. As of December 31, 2015 the Federal 

Reserve reaffirmed setting the U.S. countercyclical capital 

buffer at 0%, and stated that it will review the amount at 

least annually. The countercyclical capital buffer can be 

increased if the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC determine 

that credit growth in the economy has become excessive 

and can be set at up to an additional 2.5% of RWA. On 

December 21, 2015, the Federal Reserve, in conjunction 

with the FDIC and OCC, requested public comment, due 

March 21, 2016, on a proposed policy statement detailing 

the framework that would be followed in setting the U.S. 

Basel III countercyclical capital buffer. 
Based on the Firm’s most recent estimate of its GSIB 
surcharge and the current countercyclical buffer being set 

at 0%, the Firm estimates its fully phased-in capital 

conservation buffer would be 6%. 
As well as meeting the capital ratio requirements of Basel 
III, the Firm must, in order to be “well-capitalized”, 

maintain a minimum 6% Tier 1 and a 10% Total capital 

requirement. Each of the Firm’s IDI subsidiaries must 

maintain a minimum 5% Tier 1 leverage, 6.5% CET1, 8% 

Tier 1 and 10% Total capital standard to meet the 

definition of “well-capitalized” under the Prompt Corrective 

Action (“PCA”) requirements of the FDIC Improvement Act

(“FDICIA”) for IDI subsidiaries. The PCA standards for IDI 

subsidiaries were effective January 1, 2015.
A reconciliation of total stockholders’ equity to Basel III 
Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In CET1 capital, 

Tier 1 capital and Total capital is presented in the table 

below. Beginning July 21, 2015, the Volcker Rule provisions 

regarding the prohibitions against proprietary trading and 

holding ownership interests in or sponsoring “covered 

funds” became effective. The deduction from Basel III Tier 1 

capital associated with the permissible holdings of covered 

funds acquired after December 31, 2013 was not material 

as of December 31, 2015. For additional information on the 
components of regulatory capital, see Note 28.
Capital components(in millions)December 31,2015Total stockholders’ equity$247,573
Less: Preferred stock26,068

Common stockholders’ equity221,505

Less:Goodwill47,325

Other intangible assets1,015
Add:Deferred tax liabilities
(a) 3,148Less: Other CET1 capital adjustments3,124

Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital173,189

Preferred stock26,068
Less:Other Tier 1 adjustments210
Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital$199,047

Long-term debt and other instruments qualifying asTier 2 capital$16,679
Qualifying allowance for credit losses14,341

Other(91)

Standardized Fully Phased-In Tier 2 capital$30,929

Standardized Fully Phased-in Total capital$229,976

Adjustment in qualifying allowance for credit losses forAdvanced Tier 2 capital(9,797)
Advanced Fully Phased-In Tier 2 capital$21,132

Advanced Fully Phased-In Total capital$220,179
(a) Represents deferred tax liabilities related to tax-deductible goodwill 
and to identifiable intangibles created in nontaxable transactions, 
which are netted against goodwill and other intangibles when 

calculating TCE.
Management’s discussion and analysis
154JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table presents a reconciliation of the Firm’s 
Basel III Transitional CET1 capital to the Firm’s estimated 

Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital as of December 31, 

2015.(in millions)December 31,2015Transitional CET1 capital$175,398
AOCI phase-in
(a)427CET1 capital deduction phase-in(b)(2,005)Intangible assets deduction phase-in
(c)
(546)Other adjustments to CET1 capital(d)(85)Fully Phased-In CET1 capital$173,189
(a) Includes the remaining balance of AOCI related to AFS debt securities 
and defined benefit pension and other postretirement employee 
benefit (“OPEB”) plans that will qualify as Basel III CET1 capital upon 
full phase-in.(b) Predominantly includes regulatory adjustments related to changes in 
FVA/DVA, as well as CET1 deductions for defined benefit pension plan 

assets and deferred tax assets related to net operating loss and tax 

credit carryforwards.
(c) Relates to intangible assets, other than goodwill and MSRs, that are 
required to be deducted from CET1 capital upon full phase-in.
(d) Includes minority interest and the Firm’s investments in its own CET1 
capital instruments.
Capital rollforward
The following table presents the changes in Basel III Fully 

Phased-In CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital for 

the year ended December 31, 2015.
Year Ended December 31, (in millions)2015Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital at December 31, 2014$164,514
Net income applicable to common equity22,927

Dividends declared on common stock(6,484)

Net purchase of treasury stock(3,835)

Changes in additional paid-in capital(770)

Changes related to AOCI(2,116)

Adjustment related to FVA/DVA(454)

Other(593)

Increase in Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital8,675

Standardized/Advanced CET1 capital at December 31, 2015$173,189
Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital at December 31, 2014$184,572
Change in CET1 capital8,675

Net issuance of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock6,005

Other(205)

Increase in Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital14,475

Standardized/Advanced Tier 1 capital at December 31, 2015$199,047
Standardized Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2014$32,147
Change in long-term debt and other instruments qualifying asTier 2(748)
Change in qualifying allowance for credit losses(466)

Other(4)

Increase in Standardized Tier 2 capital(1,218)

Standardized Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2015$30,929

Standardized Total capital at December 31, 2015$229,976

Advanced Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2014$21,607

Change in long-term debt and other instruments qualifying asTier 2(748)
Change in qualifying allowance for credit losses277

Other(4)

Increase in Advanced Tier 2 capital(475)

Advanced Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2015$21,132

Advanced Total capital at December 31, 2015$220,179
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report155RWA rollforward
The following table presents changes in the components of RW
A under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In for 
the year ended December 31, 2015. The amounts in the rollforward categories are estimates, based on the predominant 

driver of the change.
StandardizedAdvancedYear ended December 31, 2015
(in billions)Credit riskRWAMarket riskRWATotal RWACredit riskRWAMarket riskRWAOperational risk 
RWA
Total RWADecember 31, 2014$1,381$180
$1,561
$1,040$179$400
$1,619
Model & data changes
(a)(17)(15)
(32)(38)(15)—
(53)Portfolio runoff
(b)(13)(8)
(21)(21)(8)
—(29)Movement in portfolio levels
(c)
(18)(15)
(33)(27)(14)—
(41)Changes in RWA(48)(38)
(86)(86)(37)—
(123)December 31, 2015$1,333$142$1,475$954$142$400$1,496
(a)  Model & data changes refer to movements in levels of RWA as a result of revised methodologies and/or treatment per regulat
ory guidance (exclusive of rule 
changes).
(b) Portfolio runoff for credit risk RWA reflects reduced risk from position rolloffs in legacy portfolios in Mortgage Banking,
 (primarily under the Advanced framework) 
and Broker Dealer Services (primarily under the Standardized framework); and for market risk RWA reflects reduced risk from pos
ition rolloffs in legacy portfolios in 
the wholesale businesses.(c)  Movement in portfolio levels for credit risk RWA refers to changes in book size, composition, credit quality, and market movements; and for market risk RWA refers to 
changes in position and market movements.
Supplementary leverage ratio
The SLR is defined as Tier 1 capital under Basel III divided 
by the Firm’s total leverage exposure. Total leverage 

exposure is calculated by taking the Firm’s total average on-

balance sheet assets, less amounts permitted to be 

deducted for Tier 1 capital, and adding certain off-balance 

sheet exposures, such as undrawn commitments and 

derivatives potential future exposure.
On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators adopted 

a final rule for the calculation of the SLR. The U.S. final rule 

requires public disclosure of the SLR beginning with the first 

quarter of 2015, and also requires U.S. bank holding 

companies, including the Firm, to have a minimum SLR of 

5% and IDI subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A., to have a minimum SLR of 

6%, both beginning January 1, 2018. As of December 31, 

2015, the Firm estimates that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s 

and Chase Bank USA, N.A.’s Fully Phased-In SLRs are 

approximately 6.6% and 8.3%, respectively. 
The following table presents the components of the Firm’s 

Fully Phased-In SLR, a non-GAAP financial measure, as of 

December 31, 2015.(in millions, except ratio)December 31,2015Fully Phased-in Tier 1 Capital$199,047
Total average assets2,408,253

Less: amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital47,754

Total adjusted average assets
(a)2,360,499Off-balance sheet exposures
(b)718,620SLR leverage exposure$3,079,119

SLR6.5%
(a) Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the SLR, includes 
total quarterly average assets adjusted for on-balance sheet assets 
that are subject to deduction from Tier 1 capital, predominantly 

goodwill and other intangible assets.
(b) Off-balance sheet exposures are calculated as the average of the three 
month-end spot balances in the reporting quarter.
Planning and stress testing
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
The Federal Reserve requires large bank holding 

companies, including the Firm, to submit a capital plan on 

an annual basis. The Federal Reserve uses the CCAR and 

Dodd-Frank Act stress test processes to ensure that large 

bank holding companies have sufficient capital during 

periods of economic and financial stress, and have robust, 

forward-looking capital assessment and planning processes 

in place that address each bank holding company’s (“BHC”) 

unique risks to enable them to have the ability to absorb 

losses under certain stress scenarios. Through the CCAR, 

the Federal Reserve evaluates each BHC’s capital adequacy 

and internal capital adequacy assessment processes, as well 

as its plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend 
payments or stock repurchases.
On March 11, 2015, the Federal Reserve informed the Firm 
that it did not object, on either a quantitative or qualitative 

basis, to the Firm’s 2015 capital plan. For information on 

actions taken by the Firm’s Board of Directors following the 

2015 CCAR results, see Capital actions on page 157.
For 2016, the Federal Reserve revised the capital plan cycle 
for the CCAR process. Under the revised time line, the Firm 

is required to submit its 2016 capital plan to the Federal 

Reserve by April 5, 2016. The Federal Reserve has 

indicated that it expects to respond to the capital plan 

submissions of bank holding companies by June 30, 2016.
The Firm’s CCAR process is integrated into and employs the 
same methodologies utilized in the Firm’s ICAAP process, as 

discussed below.
Management’s discussion and analysis
156JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportInternal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
Semiannually, the Firm completes the ICAAP, which provides 

management with a view of the impact of severe and 

unexpected events on earnings, balance sheet positions, 

reserves and capital. The Firm’s ICAAP integrates stress 

testing protocols with capital planning.
The process assesses the potential impact of alternative 
economic and business scenarios on the Firm’s earnings and 

capital. Economic scenarios, and the parameters underlying 

those scenarios, are defined centrally and applied uniformly 

across the businesses. These scenarios are articulated in 

terms of macroeconomic factors, which are key drivers of 

business results; global market shocks, which generate 

short-term but severe trading losses; and idiosyncratic 

operational risk events. The scenarios are intended to 

capture and stress key vulnerabilities and idiosyncratic risks 

facing the Firm. However, when defining a broad range of 

scenarios, realized events can always be worse. Accordingly, 

management considers additional stresses outside these 

scenarios, as necessary. ICAAP results are reviewed by 

management and the Board of Directors.
Line of business equityThe Firm’s framework for allocating capital to its business 

segments (line of business equity) is based on the following 

objectives:
• Integrate firmwide and line of business capital 
management activities;
• Measure performance consistently across all lines of 

business; and• Provide comparability with peer firms for each of the 

lines of business.Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into 

consideration stand-alone peer comparisons, regulatory 

capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced 

Fully Phased-In) and economic risk. Capital is also allocated 

to each line of business for, among other things, goodwill 

and other intangibles associated with acquisitions effected 

by the line of business. ROE is measured and internal 

targets for expected returns are established as key 

measures of a business segment’s performance.
Line of business equityYearly averageYear ended December 31,
(in billions)201520142013
Consumer & Community Banking$51.0
$51.0$46.0
Corporate & Investment Bank62.061.056.5
Commercial Banking14.014.013.5
Asset Management9.09.09.0
Corporate79.772.471.4
Total common stockholders’ equity$215.7
$207.4$196.4
On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of 
capital required for each line of business as well as the 

assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital. 
The line of business equity allocations are updated as 

refinements are implemented. The table below reflects the 

Firm’s assessed level of capital required for each line of 

business as of  the dates indicated. Line of business equityJanuary 1,
 2016December 31,(in billions)20152014
Consumer & Community Banking
$51.0
$51.0$51.0
Corporate & Investment Bank
64.062.061.0
Commercial Banking
16.014.014.0
Asset Management9.09.09.0
Corporate
81.585.576.7
Total common stockholders’equity$221.5
$221.5$211.7
Other capital requirementsMinimum Total Loss Absorbing Capacity 
In November 2015, the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) 

finalized the TLAC standard for GSIBs, which establishes the 

criteria for TLAC eligible debt and capital instruments and 

defines the minimum requirements for amounts of loss 

absorbing and recapitalization capacity. This amount and 

type of debt and capital instruments is intended to 

effectively absorb losses, as necessary, upon the failure of a 

GSIB, without imposing such losses on taxpayers of the 

relevant jurisdiction or causing severe systemic disruptions, 

and thereby ensuring the continuity of the GSIB’s critical 

functions. The final standard will require GSIBs to meet a 

common minimum TLAC requirement of 16% of the 

financial institution’s RWA, effective January 1, 2019, and 

at least 18% effective January 1, 2022. The minimum TLAC 

must also be at least 6% of a financial institution’s Basel III 

leverage ratio denominator, effective January 1, 2019, and 

at least 6.75% effective January 1, 2022.
On October 30, 2015, the Federal Reserve issued proposed 
rules that would require the top-tier holding companies of 

eight U.S. global systemically important bank holding 

companies, including the Firm, among other things, to 

maintain minimum levels of eligible TLAC and long-term 

debt satisfying certain eligibility criteria (“eligible LTD”) 

commencing January 1, 2019. Under the proposal, these 

eight U.S GSIBs  would be required to maintain 

minimum TLAC of no less than 18% of the financial 

institution’s RWA or 9.5% of its leverage exposure (as 

defined by the rules), plus in the case of the RWA-based 

measure, a TLAC buffer that is equal to 2.5% of the 

financial institution’s CET1, any applicable countercyclical 

buffer and the financial institution’s GSIB surcharge as 

calculated under method 1. The minimum level of eligible 

LTD that would be required to be maintained by these eight 

U.S. GSIBs would be equal to the greater of (A) 6% of the 

financial institution’s RWA, plus the higher of the method 1 

or method 2 GSIB surcharge applicable to the institution 

and (B) 4.5% of its leverage exposure (as defined by the 

rules). These proposed TLAC Rules would disqualify from 

eligible LTD, among other instruments, senior debt 

securities that permit acceleration for reasons other than 

insolvency or payment default, as well as structured notes 

and debt securities not governed by U.S. law. The Firm is 

currently evaluating the impact of the proposal.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report157Capital actions
Dividends The Firm’s common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan 

Chase’s earnings outlook, desired dividend payout ratio, 

capital objectives, and alternative investment opportunities.

Following receipt on March 11, 2015, of the Federal 

Reserve’s non-objection to the Firm’s 2015 capital plan 

submitted under its CCAR, the Firm announced that its 

Board of Directors increased the quarterly common stock 

dividend to $0.44 per share, effective with the dividend 

paid on July 31, 2015. The Firm’s dividends are subject to 

the Board of Directors’ approval at the customary times 

those dividends are declared.
For information regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 22 
and Note 27.The following table shows the common dividend payout 
ratio based on reported net income.
Year ended December 31,201520142013
Common dividend payout ratio28%29%33%
Common equity 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, warrant 

holders exercised their right to purchase 12.4 million 

shares of the Firm’s common stock. The Firm issued 4.7 

million shares of its common stock as a result of these 

exercises. As of December 31, 2015, 47.4 million warrants 

remained outstanding, compared with 59.8 million 

outstanding as of December 31, 2014.
On March 11, 2015, in conjunction with the Federal 
Reserve’s release of its 2015 CCAR results, the Firm’s Board 

of Directors authorized a $6.4 billion common equity (i.e., 

common stock and warrants) repurchase program. As of 

December 31, 2015, $2.7 billion (on a settlement-date 

basis) of authorized repurchase capacity remained under 

the program. This authorization includes shares 

repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm’s equity-

based compensation plans.The following table sets forth the Firm’s repurchases of 
common equity for the years ended December 31, 2015, 

2014 and 2013, on a settlement-date basis. There were no 

warrants repurchased during the years ended December 

31, 2015, 2014, and 2013.Year ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Total number of shares of common stockrepurchased89.882.396.1
Aggregate purchase price of commonstock repurchases$5,616
$4,760$4,789
The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading 

plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 

1934 to facilitate repurchases in accordance with the 

common equity repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 

repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity 

during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing 

common equity — for example, during internal trading 

“blackout periods.” All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan 

must be made according to a predefined plan established 
when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic 

information.
The authorization to repurchase common equity will be 
utilized at management’s discretion, and the timing of 

purchases and the exact amount of common equity that 

may be repurchased is subject to various factors, including 

market conditions; legal and regulatory considerations 

affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the 

Firm’s capital position (taking into account goodwill and 

intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative 

investment opportunities. The repurchase program does not 

include specific price targets or timetables; may be 

executed through open market purchases or privately 

negotiated transactions, or utilize Rule 10b5-1 programs; 

and may be suspended at any time.
For additional information regarding repurchases of the 
Firm’s equity securities, see Part II, Item 5: Market for 

registrant’s common equity, related stockholder matters 

and issuer purchases of equity securities on page 20.
Preferred stock 
During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Firm issued 

$6.0 billion of noncumulative preferred stock. Preferred 

stock dividends declared were $1.5 billion for the year 

ended December 31, 2015. Assuming all preferred stock 

issuances were outstanding for the entire year and 

quarterly dividends were declared on such issuances, 

preferred stock dividends would have been $1.6 billion for 

the year ended December 31, 2015. For additional 

information on the Firm’s preferred stock, see Note 22.
Redemption of outstanding trust preferred securities
On April 2, 2015, the Firm redeemed $1.5 billion, or 100% 

of the liquidation amount, of JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIX 

trust preferred securities. On May 8, 2013, the Firm 

redeemed approximately $5.0 billion, or 100% of the 

liquidation amount, of the following eight series of trust 

preferred securities: JPMorgan Chase Capital X, XI, XII, XIV, 

XVI, XIX, XXIV, and BANK ONE Capital VI. For a further 

discussion of trust preferred securities, see Note 21.
Management’s discussion and analysis
158JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportBroker-dealer regulatory capital
JPMorgan Chase’s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries 

are JPMorgan Securities and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. 

(“JPMorgan Clearing”). JPMorgan Clearing is a subsidiary of 

JPMorgan Securities and provides clearing and settlement 

services. JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing are 

each subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange 

Act of 1934 (the “Net Capital Rule”). JPMorgan Securities 

and JPMorgan Clearing are also each registered as futures 

commission merchants and subject to Rule 1.17 of the 

Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”).
JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing have elected to 
compute their minimum net capital requirements in 

accordance with the “Alternative Net Capital Requirements” 

of the Net Capital Rule. At December 31, 2015, 

JPMorgan Securities’ net capital, as defined by the Net 

Capital Rule, was $14.2 billion, exceeding the minimum 

requirement by $11.9 billion, and JPMorgan Clearing’s net 

capital was $7.7 billion, exceeding the minimum 

requirement by $6.2 billion.
In addition to its minimum net capital requirement, 
JPMorgan Securities is required to hold tentative net capital 

in excess of $1.0 billion and is also required to notify the 

Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in the event 

that tentative net capital is less than $5.0 billion, in 

accordance with the market and credit risk standards of 

Appendix E of the Net Capital Rule. As of December 31, 

2015, JPMorgan Securities had tentative net capital in 

excess of the minimum and notification requirements.
J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a wholly owned subsidiary of 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and is the Firm’s principal 

operating subsidiary in the U.K. It has authority to engage in 

banking, investment banking and broker-dealer activities. 

J.P. Morgan Securities plc is jointly regulated by the U.K. 

Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) and Financial 

Conduct Authority (“FCA”). Commencing January 1, 2014, 

J.P. Morgan Securities plc became subject to the U.K. Basel 

III capital rules.At December 31, 2015, J.P. Morgan Securities plc had 
estimated total capital of $33.9 billion; its estimated CET1 
capital ratio was 15.4% and its estimated Total capital ratio 

was 19.6%. Both capital ratios exceeded the minimum 

standards of 4.5% and 8.0%, respectively, under the 

transitional requirements of the European Union’s (“EU”) 

Basel III Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation, as 

well as the additional capital requirements specified by the 

PRA.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report159LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENTLiquidity risk is the risk that the Firm will be unable to meet 
its contractual and contingent obligations or that it does not 

have the appropriate amount, composition and tenor of 

funding and liquidity to support its assets.
Liquidity risk oversight
The Firm has a liquidity risk oversight function whose 

primary objective is to provide assessment, measurement, 

monitoring, and control of liquidity risk across the Firm. 

Liquidity risk oversight is managed through a dedicated 

firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight group. The CTC CRO, as 

part of the independent risk management function, has 

responsibility for firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight. 

Liquidity Risk Oversight’s responsibilities include but are 

not limited to:• Establishing and monitoring limits, indicators, and 
thresholds, including liquidity appetite tolerances;
• Defining, monitoring, and reporting internal firmwide 
and legal entity stress tests, and monitoring and 
reporting regulatory defined stress testing;
• Monitoring and reporting liquidity positions, balance 
sheet variances and funding activities;
• Conducting ad hoc analysis to identify potential 
emerging liquidity risks.
Risk governance and measurement

Specific committees responsible for liquidity governance 

include firmwide ALCO as well as line of business and 

regional ALCOs, and the CTC Risk Committee. For further 

discussion of the risk and risk-related committees, see 

Enterprise-wide Risk Management on pages 107–111.
Internal Stress testing
Liquidity stress tests are intended to ensure sufficient 

liquidity for the Firm under a variety of adverse scenarios. 

Results of stress tests are therefore considered in the 

formulation of the Firm’s funding plan and assessment of its 

liquidity position. Liquidity outflow assumptions are 

modeled across a range of time horizons and contemplate 

both market and idiosyncratic stress. Standard stress tests 

are performed on a regular basis and ad hoc stress tests are 

performed in response to specific market events or 

concerns. Stress scenarios are produced for JPMorgan 

Chase & Co. (“Parent Company”) and the Firm’s major 

subsidiaries.Liquidity stress tests assume all of the Firm’s contractual 
obligations are met and then take into consideration 

varying levels of access to unsecured and secured funding 

markets. Additionally, assumptions with respect to potential 

non-contractual and contingent outflows are contemplated.
Liquidity management
Treasury is responsible for liquidity management. The 

primary objectives of effective liquidity management are to 

ensure that the Firm’s core businesses are able to operate 

in support of client needs, meet contractual and contingent 

obligations through normal economic cycles as well as 

during stress events, and to manage optimal funding mix, 

and availability of liquidity sources. The Firm manages 

liquidity and funding using a centralized, global approach in 

order to optimize liquidity sources and uses.
In the context of the Firm’s liquidity management, Treasury 
is responsible for:
• Analyzing and understanding the liquidity characteristics 
of the Firm, lines of business and legal entities’ assets 
and liabilities, taking into account legal, regulatory, and 

operational restrictions;
• Defining and monitoring firmwide and legal entity 

liquidity strategies, policies, guidelines, and contingency 

funding plans;
• Managing liquidity within approved liquidity risk 
appetite tolerances and limits;
• Setting transfer pricing in accordance with underlying 
liquidity characteristics of balance sheet assets and 

liabilities as well as certain off-balance sheet items.
Contingency funding plan

The Firm’s contingency funding plan (“CFP”), which is 

reviewed by ALCO and approved by the DRPC, is a 

compilation of procedures and action plans for managing 

liquidity through stress events. The CFP incorporates the 

limits and indicators set by the Liquidity Risk Oversight 

group. These limits and indicators are reviewed regularly to 

identify the emergence of risks or vulnerabilities in the 

Firm’s liquidity position. The CFP identifies the alternative 

contingent liquidity resources available to the Firm in a 

stress event.
Parent Company and subsidiary funding
The Parent Company acts as a source of funding to its 

subsidiaries. The Firm’s liquidity management is intended to 

maintain liquidity at the Parent Company, in addition to 

funding and liquidity raised at the subsidiary operating 

level, at levels sufficient to fund the operations of the 

Parent Company and its subsidiaries for an extended period 

of time in a stress environment where access to normal 

funding sources is disrupted. The Parent Company currently 

holds sufficient liquidity to withstand peak outflows over a 

one year liquidity stress horizon, assuming no access to 

wholesale funding markets.
Management’s discussion and analysis
160JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportLCR and NSFR
The Firm must comply with the U.S. LCR rule, which is 

intended to measure the amount of HQLA held by the Firm 

in relation to estimated net cash outflows within a 30-day 

period during an acute stress event. The LCR is required to 

be 80% at January 1, 2015, increasing by 10% each year 

until reaching the 100% minimum by January 1, 2017. At 

December 31, 2015, the Firm was compliant with the fully 

phased-in U.S. LCR. 
On October 31, 2014, the Basel Committee issued the final 
standard for the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”) — which 

is intended to measure the “available” amount of stable 

funding relative to the “required” amount of stable funding 

over a one-year horizon. NSFR will become a minimum 

standard by January 1, 2018 and requires that this ratio be 

equal to at least 100% on an ongoing basis. At December 

31, 2015, the Firm was compliant with the NSFR based on 

its current understanding of the final Basel rule. The U.S. 

banking regulators are expected to issue an NPR that would 

outline requirements specific to U.S. banks.
HQLAHQLA is the amount of assets that qualify for inclusion in 

the U.S. LCR. HQLA primarily consists of cash and certain 

unencumbered high quality liquid assets as defined in the 

final rule.
As of December 31, 2015, the Firm’s HQLA was $496 
billion, compared with $600 billion as of December 31, 

2014. The decrease in HQLA was due to lower cash 

balances largely driven by lower non-operating deposit 

balances; however, the Firm remains LCR-compliant given 

the corresponding reduction in estimated net cash outflows 

associated with those deposits. HQLA may fluctuate from 

period to period primarily due to normal flows from client 

activity.
The following table presents the estimated HQLA included in 
the LCR broken out by HQLA-eligible cash and securities as 

of December 31, 2015.(in billions)December 31, 2015HQLAEligible cash(a)$304
Eligible securities(b)192Total HQLA$496
(a) Cash on deposit at central banks.
(b) Predominantly includes U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, U.S. 
Treasuries, and sovereign bonds net of applicable haircuts under U.S. 

LCR rules.
In addition to HQLA, as of December 31, 2015, the Firm has 

approximately $249 billion of unencumbered marketable 

securities, such as equity securities and fixed income debt 

securities, available to raise liquidity, if required. 

Furthermore, the Firm maintains borrowing capacity at 

various Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLBs”), the Federal 

Reserve Bank discount window and various other central 

banks as a result of collateral pledged by the Firm to such 

banks. Although available, the Firm does not view the 

borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank discount 

window and the various other central banks as a primary 

source of liquidity. As of December 31, 2015, the Firm’s 

remaining borrowing capacity at various FHLBs and the 

Federal Reserve Bank discount window was approximately 

$183 billion. This remaining borrowing capacity excludes 

the benefit of securities included above in HQLA or other 

unencumbered securities currently held at the Federal 

Reserve Bank discount window for which the Firm has not 

drawn liquidity.
Funding
Sources of funds

Management believes that the Firm’s unsecured and 

secured funding capacity is sufficient to meet its on- and 

off-balance sheet obligations.
The Firm funds its global balance sheet through diverse 
sources of funding including a stable deposit franchise as 

well as secured and unsecured funding in the capital 

markets. The Firm’s loan portfolio ($837.3 billion at 

December 31, 2015), is funded with a portion of the Firm’s 

deposits ($1,279.7 billion at December 31, 2015) 
and through securitizations and, with respect to a portion of 

the Firm’s real estate-related loans, with secured 

borrowings from the FHLBs. Deposits in excess of the 

amount utilized to fund loans are primarily invested in the 

Firm’s investment securities portfolio or deployed in cash or 

other short-term liquid investments based on their interest 

rate and liquidity risk characteristics. Securities borrowed 

or purchased under resale agreements and trading assets- 

debt and equity instruments are primarily funded by the 

Firm’s securities loaned or sold under agreements to 

repurchase, trading liabilities–debt and equity instruments, 

and a portion of the Firm’s long-term debt and 

stockholders’ equity. In addition to funding securities 

borrowed or purchased under resale agreements and 

trading assets-debt and
 equity instruments, proceeds from 

the Firm’s debt and equity issuances are used to fund 

certain loans and other financial and non-financial assets, 

or may be invested in the Firm’s investment securities 

portfolio. See the discussion below for additional 

information relating to Deposits, Short-term funding, and 

Long-term funding and issuance.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report161DepositsA key strength of the Firm is its diversified deposit 

franchise, through each of its lines of business, which 

provides a stable source of funding and limits reliance on 

the wholesale funding markets. As of December 31, 2015, 

the Firm’s loans-to-deposits ratio was 65%, compared with 

56% at December 31, 2014.As of December 31, 2015, total deposits for the Firm were 

$1,279.7 billion, compared with $1,363.4 billion at 

December 31, 2014 (61% and 58% of total liabilities at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively). The decrease 

was attributable to lower wholesale non-operating deposits, 

partially offset by higher consumer deposits. For further 

information, see Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis on 

pages 75–76.The Firm has typically experienced higher customer deposit inflows at quarter-ends. Therefore, the Firm believes average 

deposit balances are generally more representative of deposit trends. The table below summarizes, by line of business, the 

period-end and average deposit balances as of and for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014.
DepositsYear ended December 31,As of or for the period ended December 31,Average(in millions)2015201420152014Consumer & Community Banking$557,645
$502,520
$530,938
$486,919
Corporate & Investment Bank395,228468,423414,064417,517Commercial Banking172,470213,682184,132190,425Asset Management146,766155,247149,525150,121Corporate7,60623,55517,12919,319Total Firm$1,279,715
$1,363,427
$1,295,788
$1,264,301
A significant portion of the Firm’s deposits are consumer deposits, which are considered a stable source of liquidity. 

Additionally, the majority of the Firm’s wholesale operating deposits are also considered to be stable sources of liquidity 

because they are generated from customers that maintain operating service relationships with the Firm. Wholesale non-

operating deposits, including a portion of balances previously reported as commercial paper sweep liabilities, decreased by 

approximately $200 billion from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015, predominantly driven by the Firm’s actions to 

reduce such deposits. The reduction has not had a significant impact on the Firm’s liquidity position as discussed under LCR 

and HQLA above. For further discussions of deposit and liability balance trends, see the discussion of the Firm’s business 

segments results and the Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 83–106 and pages 75–76, respectively.
Management’s discussion and analysis
162JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table summarizes short-term and long-term funding, excluding deposits, as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
and average balances for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. For additional information, see the Consolidated 

Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 75–76 and Note 21.Sources of funds (excluding deposits)20152014As of or for the year ended December 31,Average(in millions)20152014Commercial paper:Wholesale funding$15,562
$24,052
$19,340
$19,442
Client cash management—42,29218,80040,474Total commercial paper$15,562
$66,344
$38,140
$59,916
Obligations of Firm-administered multi-seller conduits
(a)$8,724
$12,047
$11,961
$10,427
Other borrowed funds$21,105
$30,222
$28,816
$31,721
Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase:Securities sold under agreements to repurchase$129,598
$167,077
$168,163
$181,186
Securities loaned18,17421,79819,49322,586Total securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase
(b)(c)(d)
$147,772
$188,875
$187,656
$203,772
Senior notes$149,964
$142,169
$147,498
$139,388
Trust preferred securities3,9695,4354,3415,408Subordinated debt25,02729,38727,31029,009Structured notes32,81330,02131,30930,311Total long-term unsecured funding$211,773
$207,012
$210,458
$204,116
Credit card securitization
(a)27,90631,19730,38228,892Other securitizations(e)
1,7602,0081,9092,734FHLB advances71,58164,99470,15060,667Other long-term secured funding
(f)
5,2974,3734,3325,031Total long-term secured funding$106,544
$102,572
$106,773
$97,324
Preferred stock
(g)$26,068
$20,063
24,040$17,018
Common stockholders’ equity
(g)$221,505
$211,664
215,690$207,400
(a) Included in beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheet
s.
(b) Excludes federal funds purchased.

(c) Excluded long-term structured repurchase agreements of $4.2 billion and $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, resp
ectively, and average 
balances of $3.9 billion and $4.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 
(d) Excluded average long-term securities loaned of $24 million as of December 31, 2014. There was no balance for the other per
iods presented.

(e) Other securitizations includes securitizations of residential mortgages and student loans. The Firm’s wholesale businesses 
also securitize loans for client-
driven transactions, which are not considered to be a source of funding for the Firm and are not included in the table.
(f) Includes long-term structured notes which are secured.

(g) For additional information on preferred stock and common stockholders’ equity see Capital Management on pages 149–158, Consolidated statements of 
changes in stockholders’ equity, Note 22 and Note 23.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report163Short-term funding
During the third quarter of 2015 the Firm completed the 

discontinuation of its commercial paper customer sweep 

cash management program. This change has not had a 

significant impact on the Firm’s liquidity as the majority of 

these customer funds remain as deposits at the Firm.
The Firm’s sources of short-term secured funding primarily 
consist of securities loaned or sold under agreements to 

repurchase. Securities loaned or sold under agreements to 

repurchase are secured predominantly by high-quality 

securities collateral, including government-issued debt and 

agency MBS, and constitute a significant portion of the 

federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under 

repurchase agreements on the Consolidated balance sheets. 

The decrease in securities loaned or sold under agreements 

to repurchase at December 31, 2015, compared with the 

balance at December 31, 2014 (as well as the average 

balances for the full year 2015, compared with the prior 

year) was due to a decline in secured financing of trading 

assets-debt and equity instruments in CIB. The balances 

associated with securities loaned or sold under agreements 

to repurchase fluctuate over time due to customers’ 

investment and financing activities; the Firm’s demand for 

financing; the ongoing management of the mix of the Firm’s 

liabilities, including its secured and unsecured financing (for 

both the investment securities and market-making 

portfolios); and other market and portfolio factors.
Long-term funding and issuance
Long-term funding provides additional sources of stable 

funding and liquidity for the Firm. The Firm’s long-term 

funding plan is driven by expected client activity, liquidity 

considerations, and regulatory requirements. Long-term 

funding objectives include maintaining diversification, 

maximizing market access and optimizing funding costs, as 

well as maintaining a certain level of liquidity at the Parent 

Company. The Firm evaluates various funding markets, 

tenors and currencies in creating its optimal long-term 

funding plan.
The significant majority of the Firm’s long-term unsecured 
funding is issued by the Parent Company to provide 

maximum flexibility in support of both bank and nonbank 

subsidiary funding. The following table summarizes long-

term unsecured issuance and maturities or redemptions for 

the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. For 

additional information, see Note 21.
Long-term unsecured fundingYear ended December 31,
(in millions)20152014IssuanceSenior notes issued in the U.S. market$19,212
$16,322
Senior notes issued in non-U.S. markets10,18811,193Total senior notes29,400
27,515Subordinated debt3,2104,956Structured notes22,16519,806Total long-term unsecured funding –issuance$54,775
$52,277
Maturities/redemptions
Senior notes$18,454
$21,169
Trust preferred securities1,500—Subordinated debt6,9084,487Structured notes18,09918,554Total long-term unsecured funding –maturities/redemptions$44,961
$44,210
The Firm raises secured long-term funding through 
securitization of consumer credit card loans and advances 

from the FHLBs. 
The following table summarizes the securitization issuance 
and FHLB advances and their respective maturities or 

redemption for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 

2014. Long-term secured fundingYear ended 
December 31,IssuanceMaturities/Redemptions
(in millions)2015201420152014Credit cardsecuritization$6,807
$8,327
$10,130
$3,774
Other securitizations(a)——248309FHLB advances16,55015,2009,96012,079Other long-termsecured funding1,1058023833,076Total long-termsecured funding$24,462
$24,329
$20,721
$19,238
(a) Other securitizations includes securitizations of residential mortgages 
and student loans.The Firm’s wholesale businesses also securitize loans for 
client-driven transactions; those client-driven loan 

securitizations are not considered to be a source of funding 

for the Firm and are not 
included in the table above. For 
further description of the client-driven loan securitizations, 

see Note 16.Management’s discussion and analysis
164JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportCredit ratings
The cost and availability of financing are influenced by 

credit ratings. Reductions in these ratings could have an 

adverse effect on the Firm’s access to liquidity sources, 

increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or 

funding requirements and decrease the number of investors 

and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. Additionally, 

the Firm’s funding requirements for VIEs and other third 

party commitments may be adversely affected by a decline 
in credit ratings. For additional information on the impact of 

a credit ratings downgrade on the funding requirements for 

VIEs, and on derivatives and collateral agreements, see 

Special-purpose entities on page 77, and credit risk, 

liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features in 

Note 6.The credit ratings of the Parent Company and the Firm’s principal bank and nonbank subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015, 

were as follows.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Chase Bank USA, N.A.J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
December 31, 2015Long-termissuerShort-termissuerOutlook
Long-termissuerShort-termissuerOutlook
Long-termissuerShort-termissuerOutlook
Moody’s Investors ServiceA3P-2StableAa3P-1StableAa3P-1Stable
Standard & Poor’sA-A-2StableA+A-1StableA+A-1Stable

Fitch RatingsA+F1StableAA-F1+StableAA-F1+Stable
Downgrades of the Firm’s long-term ratings by one or two 
notches could result in an increase in its cost of funds, and 

access to certain funding markets could be reduced as 

noted above. The nature and magnitude of the impact of 

ratings downgrades depends on numerous contractual and
 behavioral factors (which the Firm believes are 

incorporated in its liquidity risk and stress testing metrics). 

The Firm believes that it maintains sufficient liquidity to 

withstand a potential decrease in funding capacity due to 

ratings downgrades.
JPMorgan Chase’s unsecured debt does not contain 
requirements that would call for an acceleration of 

payments, maturities or changes in the structure of the 

existing debt, provide any limitations on future borrowings 

or require additional collateral, based on unfavorable 

changes in the Firm’s credit ratings, financial ratios, 

earnings, or stock price.
Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a 
stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, 

strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse 

funding sources, and disciplined liquidity monitoring 

procedures. Rating agencies continue to evaluate economic 

and geopolitical trends, regulatory developments, future 

profitability, risk management practices, and litigation 

matters, as well as their broader ratings methodologies. 

Changes in any of these factors could lead to changes in the 

Firm’s credit ratings.
In May 2015, Moody’s published its new bank rating 

methodology. As part of this action, the Firm’s preferred 

stock, deposits and bank subordinated debt ratings were 

upgraded by one notch. Additionally in May 2015, Fitch 

changed its bank ratings methodology, implementing 

ratings differentiation between bank holding companies and 

their bank subsidiaries. This resulted in a one notch 

upgrade to the issuer ratings, senior debt ratings and long-

term deposit ratings of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and 

certain other subsidiaries. In December 2015, S&P removed 

from its ratings for U.S. GSIBs the uplift assumption due to 

extraordinary government support. As a result, the Firm’s 

short-term and long-term senior unsecured debt ratings 

and its subordinated unsecured debt ratings were lowered 

by one notch.Although the Firm closely monitors and endeavors to 
manage, to the extent it is able, factors influencing its credit 

ratings, there is no assurance that its credit ratings will not 

be changed in the future.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report165CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRMJPMorgan Chase’s accounting policies and use of estimates 
are integral to understanding its reported results. The 

Firm’s most complex accounting estimates require 

management’s judgment to ascertain the appropriate 

carrying value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has 

established policies and control procedures intended to 

ensure that estimation methods, including any judgments 

made as part of such methods, are well-controlled, 

independently reviewed and applied consistently from 

period to period. The methods used and judgments made 
reflect, among other factors, the nature of the assets or 

liabilities and the related business and risk management 

strategies, which may vary across the Firm’s businesses and 

portfolios. In addition, the policies and procedures are 

intended to ensure that the process for changing 

methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm 

believes its estimates for determining the carrying value of 

its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a 

brief description of the Firm’s critical accounting estimates 

involving significant judgments.
Allowance for credit losses

JPMorgan Chase’s allowance for credit losses covers the 

retained consumer and wholesale loan portfolios, as well as 

the Firm’s wholesale and certain consumer lending-related 

commitments. The allowance for loan losses is intended to 

adjust the carrying value of the Firm’s loan assets to reflect 

probable credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of 

the balance sheet date. Similarly, the allowance for lending-

related commitments is established to cover probable credit 

losses inherent in the lending-related commitments 

portfolio as of the balance sheet date.
The allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific 
component, a formula-based component, and a component 

related to PCI loans. The determination of each of these 

components involves significan
t judgment on a number of matters, as discussed below. For further discussion of the 

methodologies used in establishing the Firm’s allowance for 

credit losses, see Note 15.
Asset-specific component
The asset-specific allowance for loan losses for each of the 

Firm’s portfolio segments is generally measured as the 

difference between the recorded investment in the impaired 

loan and the present value of the cash flows expected to be 

collected, discounted at the loan’s original effective interest 

rate. Estimating the timing and amounts of future cash 

flows is highly judgmental as these cash flow projections 

rely upon estimates such as redefault rates, loss severities, 

the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors 

that are reflective of current and expected future market 

conditions. These estimates are, in turn, dependent on 

factors such as the level of future home prices, the duration 

of current overall economic conditions, and other 

macroeconomic and portfolio-specific factors. All of these 

estimates and assumptions require significant management 

judgment and certain assumptions are highly subjective.
Formula-based component — Consumer loans and lending-

related commitments, excluding PCI loans

The formula-based allowance for credit losses for the 

consumer portfolio, including credit card, is calculated by 

applying statistical credit loss factors to outstanding 

principal balances over an estimated loss emergence period 

to arrive at an estimate of incurred credit losses in the 

portfolio. The loss emergence period represents the time 

period between the date at which the loss is estimated to 

have been incurred and the ultimate realization of that loss 

(through a charge-off). Estimated loss emergence periods 

may vary by product and may change over time; 

management applies judgment in estimating loss 

emergence periods, using available credit information and 

trends. In addition, management applies judgment to the 

statistical loss estimates for each loan portfolio category, 

using delinquency trends and other risk characteristics to 

estimate the total incurred credit losses in the portfolio. 

Management uses additional statistical methods and 
considers portfolio and collateral valuation trends to review 

the appropriateness of the primary statistical loss estimate.
The statistical calculation is then adjusted to take into consideration model imprecision, external factors and 

current economic events that have occurred but that are 

not yet reflected in the factors used to derive the statistical 

calculation; these adjustments are accomplished in part by 

analyzing the historical loss experience for each major 

product segment. However, it is difficult to predict whether 

historical loss experience is indicative of future loss levels. 

Management applies judgment in making this adjustment, 

taking into account unc
ertainties associated with current 
macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of 

underwriting standards, borrower behavior, the potential 

impact of payment recasts within the HELOC portfolio, and 

other relevant internal and external factors affecting the 

credit quality of the portfolio. In certain instances, the 

interrelationships between these factors create further 

uncertainties. For example, the performance of a HELOC 

that experiences a payment recast may be affected by both 

the quality of underwriting standards applied in originating 

the loan and the general economic conditions in effect at 

the time of the payment recast. For junior lien products, 

management considers the delinquency and/or 

modification status of any senior liens in determining the 

adjustment. The application of different inputs into the 

statistical calculation, and the assumptions used by 
management to adjust the statistical calculation, are 

subject to management judgment, and emphasizing one 

input or assumption over another, or considering other 

inputs or assumptions, could affect the estimate of the 

allowance for loan losses for the consumer credit portfolio.
Management’s discussion and analysis
166JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportOverall, the allowance for credit losses for the consumer 
portfolio, including credit card, is sensitive to changes in the 

economic environment (e.g., unemployment rates), delinquency rates, the realizable v
alue of collateral (e.g., housing prices), FICO scores, borrower behavior and other 

risk factors. While all of these factors are important 

determinants of overall allowance levels, changes in the 

various factors may not occur at the same time or at the 

same rate, or changes may be directionally inconsistent 

such that improvement in one factor may offset 
deterioration in the other. In addition, changes in these 

factors would not necessarily be consistent across all 

geographies or product types. Finally, it is difficult to 

predict the extent to which changes in these factors would 

ultimately affect the frequency of losses, the severity of 

losses or both.PCI loansIn connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, 

JPMorgan Chase acquired certain PCI loans, which are 

accounted for as described in Note 14. The allowance for 

loan losses for the PCI portfolio is based on quarterly 

estimates of the amount of principal and interest cash flows 

expected to be collected over the estimated remaining lives 

of the loans.These cash flow projections are based on estimates 
regarding default rates (including redefault rates on 

modified loans), loss severities, the amounts and timing of 

prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current 

and expected future market conditions. These estimates are 

dependent on assumptions regarding the level of future 

home price declines, and the duration of current overall 

economic conditions, among other factors. These estimates 

and assumptions require significant management judgment 

and certain assumptions are highly subjective.
Formula-based component — Wholesale loans and lending-
related commitments

The Firm’s methodology for determining the allowance for 

loan losses and the allowance for lending-related 

commitments involves the early identification of credits that 

are deteriorating. The formula-based component of the 

allowance calculation for wholesale loans and lending-

related components is the product of an estimated PD and 

estimated LGD. These factors are determined based on the 

credit quality and specific attributes of the Firm’s loans and 

lending-related commitments to each obligor. 
The Firm assesses the credit quality of its borrower or 
counterparty and assigns a risk rating. Risk ratings are 

assigned at origination or acquisition, and if necessary, 

adjusted for changes in credit quality over the life of the 

exposure. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan or 

lending-related commitment, among the factors considered 

are the obligor’s debt capacity and financial flexibility, the 

level of the obligor’s earnings, the amount and sources for 

repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, 

management strength, and the industry and geography in 

which the obligor operates. These factors are based on an 
evaluation of historical and current information and involve 

subjective assessment and interpretation. Determining risk 

ratings involves significant judgment; emphasizing one 

factor over another or considering additional factors could 

affect the risk rating assigned by the Firm.
PD estimates are based on observable external through-
the-cycle data, using credit rating agency default statistics. 

A LGD estimate is assigned to each loan or lending-related 

commitment. The estimate represents the amount of 

economic loss if the obligor were to default. The type of 

obligor, quality of collateral, and the seniority of the Firm’s 

lending exposure in the obligor’s capital structure affect 

LGD. LGD estimates are based on the Firm’s history of actual 

credit losses over more than one credit cycle. Changes to 

the time period used for PD and LGD estimates (for 

example, point-in-time loss versus longer views of the credit 

cycle) could also affect the allowance for credit losses.
The Firm applies judgment in estimating PD and LGD used 
in calculating the allowances. Wherever possible, the Firm 

uses independent, verifiable data or the Firm’s own 

historical loss experience in its models for estimating the 

allowances, but differences in characteristics between the 

Firm’s specific loans or lending-related commitments and 

those reflected in external and Firm-specific historical data 

could affect loss estimates. Estimates of PD and LGD are 

subject to periodic refinement based on any changes to 

underlying external and Firm-specific historical data. The 

use of different inputs would change the amount of the 

allowance for credit losses determined appropriate by the 

Firm.
Management also applies its judgment to adjust the modeled loss estimates, taking into consideration model 

imprecision, external factors and economic events that have 

occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors. 

Historical experience of both LGD and PD are considered 

when estimating these adjustments. Factors related to 

concentrated and deteriorating industries also are 

incorporated where relevant. These estimates are based on 

management’s view of uncertainties that relate to current 

macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of 

underwriting standards and other relevant internal and 

external factors affecting the credit quality of the current 

portfolio.
Allowance for credit losses sensitivity
As noted above, the Firm’s allowanc
e for credit losses is 
sensitive to numerous factors, which may differ depending 

on the portfolio. Changes in economic conditions or in the 

Firm’s assumptions and estimates could affect its estimate 

of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the 

balance sheet date. The Firm uses its best judgment to 

assess these economic conditions and loss data in 
estimating the allowance for credit losses and these 

estimates are subject to periodic refinement based on any 

changes to underlying external and Firm-specific historical 

data. In many cases, the use of alternate estimates (for 

example, the effect of home prices and unemployment rates 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report167on consumer delinquency, or the calibration between the 
Firm’s wholesale loan risk ratings and external credit 

ratings) or data sources (for example, external PD and LGD 

factors that incorporate industry-wide information, versus 

Firm-specific history) would result in a different estimated 

allowance for credit losses. To illustrate the potential 

magnitude of certain alternate judgments, the Firm 

estimates that changes in the following inputs would have 

the following effects on the Firm’s modeled loss estimates 

as of December 31, 2015, without consideration of any 

offsetting or correlated effects of other inputs in the Firm’s 

allowance for loan losses:
• For PCI loans, a combined 5% decline in housing prices 
and a 1% increase in unemployment rates from current 

levels could imply an increase to modeled credit loss 

estimates of approximately $700 million.
• For the residential real estate portfolio, excluding PCI 

loans, a combined 5% decline in housing prices and a 

1% increase in unemployment rates from current levels 

could imply an increase to modeled annual loss 

estimates of approximately $125 million.
• A 50 basis point deterioration in forecasted credit card 

loss rates could imply an increase to modeled 

annualized credit card loan loss estimates of 

approximately $600 million.
• An increase in PD factors consistent with a one-notch 
downgrade in the Firm’s internal risk ratings for its 

entire wholesale loan portfolio could imply an increase 

in the Firm’s modeled loss estimates of approximately 

$2.1 billion.• A 100 basis point increase in estimated LGD for the 
Firm’s entire wholesale loan portfolio could imply an 

increase in the Firm’s modeled loss estimates of 

approximately $175 million.
The purpose of these sensitivity analyses is to provide an 

indication of the isolated impacts of hypothetical 
alternative assumptions on modeled loss estimates. The 

changes in the inputs presented above are not intended to 

imply management’s expectation of future deterioration of 

those risk factors. In addition, these analyses are not 

intended to estimate changes in the overall allowance for 

loan losses, which would also be influenced by the judgment 
management applies to the modeled loss estimates to 
reflect the uncertainty and imprecision of these modeled 

loss estimates based on then-current circumstances and 

conditions.It is difficult to estimate how potential changes in specific 
factors might affect the overall allowance for credit losses 

because management considers a variety of factors and 

inputs in estimating the allowance for credit losses. 

Changes in these factors and inputs may not occur at the 

same rate and may not be consistent across all geographies 

or product types, and changes in factors may be 

directionally inconsistent, such 
that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in other factors. In addition, 
it is difficult to predict how changes in specific economic 

conditions or assumptions could affect borrower behavior 

or other factors considered by management in estimating 

the allowance for credit losses. Given the process the Firm 

follows and the judgments made in evaluating the risk 

factors related to its loss estimates, management believes 

that its current estimate of the allowance for credit losses is 

appropriate.
Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities 
inventory

JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities 

at fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are 

measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Certain assets 

and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring 

basis, including certain mortgage, home equity and other 

loans, where the carrying value is based on the fair value of 

the underlying collateral.
Assets measured at fair value
The following table includes the Firm’s assets measured at 

fair value and the portion of such assets that are classified 

within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. For further 

information, see Note 3.
December 31, 2015
(in billions, except ratio data)
Total assets atfair valueTotal level3 assetsTrading debt and equity instruments$284.1$11.9
Derivative receivables
(a)59.77.9Trading assets343.819.8
AFS securities241.80.8

Loans2.91.5

MSRs6.66.6

Private equity investments
(b)1.91.7Other28.00.8Total assets measured
 at fair value on a 
recurring basis625.031.2
Total assets measured at fair value on anonrecurring basis1.71.0Total assets measured
 at fair value 
$626.7$32.2
Total Firm assets$2,351.7
Level 3 assets as a percentage of total 
Firm assets
(a)1.4%Level 3 assets as a percentage of total 
Firm assets at fair value
(a)5.1%Note: Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for 
certain investments where the Firm measures fair value using the net asset value 

per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and has excluded these 

investments from the fair value hierarchy. For further information, see Note 3.
(a) For purposes of table above, the derivative receivables total reflects the 
impact of netting adjustments; however, the $7.9 billion of derivative 

receivables classified as level 3 does not reflect the netting adjustment as 

such netting is not relevant to a presentation based on the transparency 

of inputs to the valuation of an asset. However, if the Firm were to net 

such balances within level 3, the reduction in the level 3 derivative 

receivables balance would be $546 million at December 31, 2015; this 

is exclusive of the netting benefit associated with cash collateral, which 

would further reduce the level 3 balances.
(b) Private equity instruments represent investments within the Corporate 
line of business. Management’s discussion and analysis
168JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportValuation
Details of the Firm’s processes for determining fair value 

are set out in Note 3. Estimating fair value requires the 

application of judgment. The type and level of judgment 

required is largely dependent on the amount of observable 

market information available to the Firm. For instruments 

valued using internally developed models that use 

significant unobservable inputs and are therefore classified 

within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy, judgments used to 

estimate fair value are more significant than those required 

when estimating the fair value of instruments classified 

within levels 1 and 2.
In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument 
within level 3, management must first determine the 

appropriate model to use. Second, the lack of observability 

of certain significant inputs requires management to assess 

all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs 

including, for example, transaction details, yield curves, 

interest rates, prepayment rates, default rates, volatilities, 

correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of 

comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit 

curves. For further discussion of the valuation of level 3 

instruments, including unobservable inputs used, see 

Note 3.For instruments classified in levels 2 and 3, management 
judgment must be applied to assess the appropriate level of 

valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty credit quality, 

the Firm’s credit-worthiness, market funding rates, liquidity 

considerations, unobservable parameters, and for portfolios 

that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk 

position. The judgments made are typically affected by the 

type of product and its specific contractual terms, and the 

level of liquidity for the product or within the market as a 

whole. For further discussion of valuation adjustments 

applied by the Firm see Note 3.
Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs or 
other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded 

for a particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm 

believes its valuation methods are appropriate and 

consistent with those of other market participants, the 

methods and assumptions used reflect management 

judgment and may vary across the Firm’s businesses and 

portfolios.
The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in 
the determination of fair value. The use of methodologies or 

assumptions different than those used by the Firm could 

result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting 

date. For a detailed discussion of the Firm’s valuation 

process and hierarchy, and its determination of fair value 

for individual financial instruments, see Note 3.
Goodwill impairment

Under U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting 

units and tested for impairment at least annually. The Firm’s 

process and methodology used to conduct goodwill 

impairment testing is described in Note 17.
Management applies significant judgment when estimating 
the fair value of its reporting units. Estimates of fair value 

are dependent upon estimates of (a) the future earnings 

potential of the Firm’s reporting units, including the 

estimated effects of regulatory and legislative changes, 

such as the Dodd-Frank Act, (b) long-term growth rates and 

(c) the relevant cost of equity. Imprecision in estimating 

these factors can affect the estimated fair value of the 

reporting units.
Based upon the updated valuations for all of its reporting 
units, the Firm concluded that the goodwill allocated to its 

reporting units was not impaired at December 31, 2015. 

The fair values of these reporting units exceeded their 

carrying values by approximately 10% - 180% for all 

reporting units and did not indicate a significant risk of 

goodwill impairment based on current projections and 

valuations.
The goodwill of $101 million remaining as of December 31, 
2014 associated with the Private Equity business was 

disposed of as part of the Private Equity sale completed in 

January 2015. For further information on the Private Equity 

sale, see Note 2.
The projections for all of the Firm’s reporting units are 
consistent with management’s short-term business outlook 

assumptions, and in the longer term, incorporate a set of 

macroeconomic assumptions and the Firm’s best estimates 

of long-term growth and returns on equity of its businesses. 

Where possible, the Firm uses third-party and peer data to 

benchmark its assumptions and estimates.Declines in business performance, increases in credit losses, 
increases in equity capital requirements, as well as 

deterioration in economic or market conditions, adverse 

estimates of regulatory or legislative changes or increases 

in the estimated cost of equity, could cause the estimated 

fair values of the Firm’s reporting units or their associated 

goodwill to decline in the future, which could result in a 

material impairment charge to earnings in a future period 

related to some portion of the associated goodwill.
For additional information on goodwill, see Note 17.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report169Income taxes
JPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the 

various jurisdictions in which it operates, including U.S. 

federal, state and local and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These 

laws are often complex and may be subject to different 

interpretations. To determine the financial statement 

impact of accounting for income taxes, including the 

provision for income tax expense and unrecognized tax 

benefits, JPMorgan Chase must make assumptions and 

judgments about how to interpret and apply these complex 

tax laws to numerous transactions and business events, as 

well as make judgments regarding the timing of when 

certain items may affect taxable income in the U.S. and 

non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.
JPMorgan Chase’s interpretations of tax laws around the 
world are subject to review and examination by the various 

taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where the Firm 

operates, and disputes may occur regarding its view on a 

tax position. These disputes over interpretations with the 

various taxing authorities may be settled by audit, 

administrative appeals or adjudication in the court systems 

of the tax jurisdictions in which the Firm operates. 

JPMorgan Chase regularly reviews whether it may be 

assessed additional income taxes as a result of the 

resolution of these matters, and the Firm records additional 

reserves as appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise its 

estimate of income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, 

legal interpretations and tax planning strategies. It is 

possible that revisions in the Firm’s estimate of income 

taxes may materially affect the Firm’s results of operations 

in any reporting period.
The Firm’s provision for income taxes is composed of 
current and deferred taxes. Deferred taxes arise from 

differences between assets and liabilities measured for 

financial reporting versus income tax return purposes. 

Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in management’s 

judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely 

than not. The Firm has also recognized deferred tax assets 

in connection with certain net operating losses (“NOLs”) 

and tax credits. The Firm performs regular reviews to 

ascertain whether its deferred tax assets are realizable. 

These reviews include management’s estimates and 

assumptions regarding future taxable income, which also 

incorporates various tax planning strategies, including 

strategies that may be available to utilize NOLs before they 

expire. In connection with these reviews, if it is determined 

that a deferred tax asset is not realizable, a valuation 

allowance is established. The valuation allowance may be 

reversed in a subsequent reporting period if the Firm 

determines that, based on revised estimates of future 

taxable income or changes in tax planning strategies, it is 

more likely than not that all or part of the deferred tax 

asset will become realizable. As of December 31, 2015, 

management has determined it is more likely than not that 

the Firm will realize its deferred tax assets, net of the 

existing valuation allowance.
JPMorgan Chase does not record U.S. federal income taxes 

on the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. 

subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings have been 

reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time. Changes 

to the income tax rates applicable to these non-U.S. 

subsidiaries may have a material impact on the effective tax 

rate in a future period if such changes were to occur.
The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary 
when additional information becomes available. Uncertain 

tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition 

threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit 

to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the 

largest amount of benefit that management believes is 

more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. It is 

possible that the reassessment of JPMorgan Chase’s 

unrecognized tax benefits may have a material impact on its 

effective income tax rate in the period in which the 

reassessment occurs.
For additional information on income taxes, see Note 26.
Litigation reserves
For a description of the significant estimates and judgments 

associated with establishing litigation reserves, see 

Note 31.Management’s discussion and analysis
170JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTSFinancial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB
”) Standards Adopted during 2015
StandardSummary of guidanceEffects on financial statementsSimplifying the 
presentation of debt 

issuance costs
 •  Requires that unamortized debt issuance costs be presented as a 
reduction of the applicable liability rather than as an asset. 
 •  Does not impact the amortization method for these costs.
 •  Adopted October 1, 2015.
 •  There was no material impact on the Firm’s 
Consolidated balance sheets, and no impact on the 
Firm’s Consolidated results of operations.
 •  For further information, see Note 1.
(a)Disclosures for
investments in certain
entities that calculate net
asset value per share (or
its equivalent) •  Removes the requirement to categorize investments measured 
under the net asset value (“NAV”) practical expedient from the 

fair value hierarchy.
 •  Limits disclosures required for investments that are eligible to be 
measured using the NAV practical expedient to investments for 

which the entity has elected the practical expedient.
 •  Adopted April 1, 2015.
 •  The application of this guidance only affected the 
disclosures related to these investments and had 
no impact on the Firm’s Consolidated balance 

sheets or results of operations. 
 •  For further information, see Note 3.
(a)Repurchase agreements
and similar transactions •  Amends the accounting for certain secured financing 
transactions.
 •  Requires enhanced disclosures with respect to transactions 
recognized as sales in which exposure to the derecognized assets 

is retained through a separate agreement with the counterparty.
 •  Requires enhanced disclosures with respect to the types of financial 
assets pledged in secured financing transactions and the remaining 
contractual maturity of the secured financing transactions.
 •  Accounting amendments adopted January 1, 2015.
 •  Disclosure enhancements adopted April 1, 2015.

 •  There was no material impact on the Firm’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 •  For further information, see Note 6 and Note 13.
Reporting discontinuedoperations and
disclosures of disposals of
components of an entity •  Changes the criteria for determining whether a disposition 
qualifies for discontinued operations presentation. 
 •  Requires enhanced disclosures about discontinued operations and 
significant dispositions that do not qualify to be presented as 

discontinued operations.
 •  Adopted January 1, 2015.
 •  There was no material impact on the Firm’s
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Investments in qualifiedaffordable housing
projects •  Applies to accounting for investments in affordable housing 
projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit. 
 •  Replaces the effective yield method and allows companies to make 
an accounting policy election to amortize the initial cost of its 

investments in proportion to the tax credits and other benefits 

received if certain criteria are met, and to present the amortization 

as a component of income tax expense.
 •  Adopted January 1, 2015.
 •  For further information, see Note 1.
(a)(a)  The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively and accordingly, certain prior period amounts have been revised to
 conform with the current 
period presentation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report171FASB Standards Issued but not yet AdoptedStandardSummary of guidanceEffects on financial statementsAmendments to the consolidation analysisIssued February 2015
 •  Eliminates the deferral issued by the FASB in February 2010 of certain 
VIE-related accounting requirements for certain investment funds, 
including mutual funds, private equity funds and hedge funds. 
 •  Amends the evaluation of fees paid to a decision maker or a service 
provider, and exempts certain money market funds from consolidation.
 •  Required effective date January 1, 2016.
 •  Will not have a material impact on the Firm’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Measuring the financial 
assets and financial 
liabilities of a 
consolidated 
collateralized financing 

entity
Issued August 2014
 •  Provides an alternative for consolidated financing VIEs to elect: (1) to 
measure their financial assets and liabilities separately under existing 
U.S. GAAP for fair value measurement with any differences in such fair 

values reflected in earnings; or (2) to measure both their financial assets 

and liabilities using the more observable of the fair value of the financial 

assets or the fair value of the financial liabilities.
 •  Required effective date January 1, 2016.
 •  Will not have a material impact on the Firm’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue recognition – 
revenue from contracts 

with customers
Issued May 2014
 •  Requires that revenue from contracts with customers be recognized upon 
transfer of control of a good or service in the amount of consideration 
expected to be received.
•   Changes the accounting for certain contract costs, including whether 
they may be offset against revenue in the statements of income, and 

requires additional disclosures about revenue and contract costs.
• May be adopted using a full retrospective approach or a modified, 
cumulative effect-type approach wherein the guidance is applied only to 
existing contracts as of the date of initial application, and to new 
contracts transacted after that date.
 •  Required effective date January 1, 2018.
(a) •  Because the guidance does not apply to 
revenue associated with financial 
instruments, including loans and securities 

that are accounted for under other U.S. 

GAAP, the Firm does not expect the new 

revenue recognition guidance to have a 

material impact on the elements of its 
statements of income most closely 
associated with financial instruments, including Securities Gains, Interest Income 
and Interest Expense. 
 •  The Firm plans to adopt the revenue 
recognition guidance in the first quarter of 

2018 and is currently evaluating the potential 

impact on the Consolidated Financial 

statements and its selection of transition 

method.Recognition and 

measurement of 

financial assets and 
financial liabilitiesIssued January 2016
 •  Requires that certain equity instruments be measured at fair value, with 
changes in fair value recognized in earnings. 
 •  For financial liabilities where the fair value option has been elected, the 
portion of the total change in fair value caused by changes in Firm’s own 
credit risk is required to be presented separately in Other comprehensive 

income (“OCI”). 
 •  Generally requires a cumulative-effective adjustment to its retained 
earnings as of the beginning of the reporting period of adoption.
 •  Required effective date January 1, 2018.
(b) •  Adoption of the DVA guidance as of January 1, 
2016, would result in a reclassification from 

retained earnings to AOCI, reflecting the 

cumulative change in value to change in the 

Firm’s credit spread subsequent to the 

issuance of each liability. The amount of this 

reclassification would be immaterial as of 

January 1, 2016.
 •  The Firm is evaluating the potential impact of 
the remaining guidance on the Consolidated 

Financial Statements.
(a) Early adoption is permitted. 

(b) Early adoption is permitted for the requirement to report changes in fair value due to the Firm’s own credit risk in OCI, and the Firm is planning to early 
adopt this guidance during 2016.
Management’s discussion and analysis
172JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNONEXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AT FAIR VALUEIn the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades 
nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts. To 

determine the fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses 

various fair value estimation techniques, primarily based on 

internal models with significant observable market 

parameters. The Firm’s nonexchange-traded commodity 

derivative contracts are primarily energy-related.
The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for 
nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts for the 

year ended December 31, 2015.
Year ended December 31, 2015
(in millions)AssetpositionLiabilitypositionNet fair value of contracts outstanding at January 1,2015$9,826$13,926
Effect of legally enforceable master nettingagreements14,32713,211
Gross fair value of contracts outstanding atJanuary 1, 201524,15327,137
Contracts realized or otherwise settled(13,419)(12,583)
Fair value of new contracts3,7045,027
Changes in fair values attributable to changes invaluation techniques and assumptions——
Other changes in fair value1,428(1,300)
Gross fair value of contracts outstanding atDecember 31, 201515,86618,281
Effect of legally enforceable master nettingagreements(6,772)(6,256)
Net fair value of contracts outstanding atDecember 31, 2015$9,094$12,025
The following table indicates the maturities of 
nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts at 

December 31, 2015.December 31, 2015 (in millions)AssetpositionLiabilitypositionMaturity less than 1 year$8,487$9,242
Maturity 1–3 years5,6366,148

Maturity 4–5 years1,1221,931

Maturity in excess of 5 years621960
Gross fair value of contracts outstanding atDecember 31, 201515,86618,281
Effect of legally enforceable master nettingagreements(6,772)(6,256)
Net fair value of contracts outstanding atDecember 31, 2015$9,094$12,025
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report173FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTSFrom time to time, the Firm has made and will make 
forward-looking statements. These statements can be 

identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to 

historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements 

often use words such as “anticipate,” “target,” “expect,” 

“estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “goal,” “believe,” or other 

words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements 

provide JPMorgan Chase’s current expectations or forecasts 

of future events, circumstances, results or aspirations. 

JPMorgan Chase’s disclosures in this Annual Report contain 

forward-looking statements within the meaning of the 

Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm 

also may make forward-looking statements in its other 

documents filed or furnished with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. In addition, the Firm’s senior 

management may make forward-looking statements orally 

to investors, analysts, representatives of the media and 

others.
All forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject 
to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the 

Firm’s control. JPMorgan Chase’s actual future results may 

differ materially from those set forth in its forward-looking 

statements. While there is no assurance that any list of risks 

and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are 

certain factors which could cause actual results to differ 

from those in the forward-looking statements:
• Local, regional and global business, economic and 
political conditions and geopolitical events;
• Changes in laws and regulatory requirements, including
 capital and liquidity requirements;

• Changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws;
• Securities and capital markets behavior, including 

changes in market liquidity and volatility;
• Changes in investor sentiment or consumer spending or 

savings behavior;
• Ability of the Firm to manage effectively its capital and 

liquidity, including 
approval of its capital plans by banking regulators;
• Changes in credit ratings assigned to the Firm or its 

subsidiaries;• Damage to the Firm’s reputation;
• Ability of the Firm to deal effectively with an economic 

slowdown or other economic or market disruption;
• Technology changes instituted by the Firm, its 

counterparties or competitors;
• The success of the Firm’s business simplification 

initiatives and the effectiveness of its control agenda;
• Ability of the Firm to develop new products and services, 

and the extent to which products or services previously 

sold by the Firm (including but not limited to mortgages 

and asset-backed securities) require the Firm to incur 

liabilities or absorb losses not contemplated at their 
initiation or origination;• Ability of the Firm to address enhanced regulatory 

requirements affecting its businesses;
• Acceptance of the Firm’s new and existing products and 

services by the marketplace and the ability of the Firm 

to innovate and to increase market share;
• Ability of the Firm to attract and retain qualified 

employees;
• Ability of the Firm to control expense;
• Competitive pressures;
• Changes in the credit quality of the Firm’s customers 

and counterparties;
• Adequacy of the Firm’s risk management framework, 

disclosure controls and procedures and internal control 

over financial reporting;
• Adverse judicial or regulatory proceedings;
• Changes in applicable accounting policies;
• Ability of the Firm to determine accurate values of 

certain assets and liabilities;
• Occurrence of natural or man-made disasters or 

calamities or conflicts and the Firm’s ability to deal 

effectively with disruptions caused by the foregoing;
• Ability of the Firm to maintain the security of its 

financial, accounting, technology, data processing and 

other operating systems and facilities; and
• Ability of the Firm to effectively defend itself against 
cyberattacks and other attempts by unauthorized 

parties to access information of the Firm or its 

customers or to disrupt the Firm’s systems; and
• The other risks and uncertainties detailed in Part I, Item 
1A: Risk Factors in the Firm’s Annual Report on Form 

10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of 

the Firm speak only as of the date they are made, and 

JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update forward-

looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or 

events that arise after the date the forward-looking 

statements were made. The reader should, however, consult 

any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the 

Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 

10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or Current Reports 

on Form 8-K.
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting
174JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportManagement of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” 
or the “Firm”) is responsible for establishing and 

maintaining adequate internal control over financial 

reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a 

process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Firm’s 

principal executive and principal financial officers, or 

persons performing similar functions, and effected by 

JPMorgan Chase’s Board of Directors, management and 

other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding 

the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 

financial statements for external purposes in accordance 

with accounting principles generally accepted in the United 

States of America.JPMorgan Chase’s internal control over financial reporting 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to 

the maintenance of records, that, in reasonable detail, 

accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 

dispositions of the Firm’s assets; (2) provide reasonable 

assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 

permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 

with generally accepted accounting principles, and that 

receipts and expenditures of the Firm are being made only 

in accordance with authorizations of JPMorgan Chase’s 

management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable 

assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of 

unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Firm’s 

assets that could have a material effect on the financial 

statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over 
financial reporting may not prevent or detect 

misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of 

effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 

controls may become inadequate because of changes in 

conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 

policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management has 

completed an assessment of the effectiveness of the Firm’s 

internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 

2015. In making the assessment, management used the 

“Internal Control — Integrated Framework” (“COSO 2013”) 
promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations 
of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”).
Based upon the assessment performed, management 
concluded that as of December 31, 2015, JPMorgan Chase’s 

internal control over financial reporting was effective based 

upon the COSO 2013 framework. Additionally, based upon 

management’s assessment, the Firm determined that there 

were no material weaknesses in its internal control over 

financial reporting as of December 31, 2015.
The effectiveness of the Firm’s internal control over 
financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, has been 

audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent 

registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report 

which appears herein.
James Dimon
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Marianne Lake

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 23, 2016 
Report of independent registered public accounting firm
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report175To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of JPMorgan 
Chase & Co.:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance 

sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, 

comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ equity and 

cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the 

financial position of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its 

subsidiaries (the “Firm”)
 at December 31, 2015 and 2014 
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for 

each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 

2015 in conformity with accounting principles generally 

accepted in the United States of America. Also in our 
opinion, the Firm maintained, in all material respects, 

effective internal control over financial reporting as of 

December 31, 2015 based on criteria established in 
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 

Commission (COSO). The Firm’s management is responsible 

for these financial statements, for maintaining effective 

internal control over financial reporting and for its 

assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over 

financial reporting, included in the accompanying 

“Management’s report on internal control over financial 

reporting”. Our responsibility is to express opinions on 

these financial statements and on the Firm’s internal control 

over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We 

conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United 

States). Those standards require that we plan and perform 

the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether 

the financial statements are free of material misstatement 

and whether effective internal control over financial 

reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our 

audits of the financial statements included examining, on a 

test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures 

in the financial statements, assessing the accounting 

principles used and significant estimates made by 
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement 

presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial 

reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal 

control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a 
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the 

design and operating effectiveness of internal control based 

on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing 

such other procedures as we considered necessary in the 

circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a 

reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance 

regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 

preparation of financial statements for external purposes in 

accordance with generally ac
cepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes 

those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the 

maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 

accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 

dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide 

reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 

necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 

accordance with generally ac
cepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are 

being made only in accordance with authorizations of 

management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide 

reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 

detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of 

the company’s assets that could have a material effect on 

the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over 
financial reporting may not prevent or detect 

misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of 

effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 

controls may become inadequate because of changes in 

conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 

policies or procedures may deteriorate.
February 23, 2016
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    300 Madison Avenue  
  New York, NY 10017
Consolidated statements of income
176JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportYear ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data)201520142013
RevenueInvestment banking fees$6,751
$6,542$6,354
Principal transactions10,40810,53110,141
Lending- and deposit-related fees5,6945,8015,945
Asset management, administration and commissions15,50915,93115,106
Securities gains
(a)20277667
Mortgage fees and related income2,5133,5635,205
Card income5,9246,0206,022
Other income3,0323,0134,608
Noninterest revenue50,03351,47854,048
Interest income50,97351,53152,669
Interest expense7,4637,8979,350
Net interest income43,51043,63443,319
Total net revenue93,54395,11297,367
Provision for credit losses3,8273,139225
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense29,75030,16030,810
Occupancy expense3,7683,9093,693
Technology, communications and equipment expense6,1935,8045,425
Professional and outside services7,0027,7057,641
Marketing2,7082,5502,500
Other expense9,59311,14620,398
Total noninterest expense59,01461,27470,467
Income before income tax expense30,702
30,69926,675
Income tax expense6,2608,9548,789
Net income$24,442
$21,745$17,886
Net income applicable to common stockholders$22,406
$20,077$16,557
Net income per common share data
Basic earnings per share$6.05
$5.33$4.38
Diluted earnings per share6.005.294.34
Weighted-average basic shares3,700.4
3,763.53,782.4
Weighted-average diluted shares3,732.8
3,797.53,814.9
Cash dividends declared per common share$1.72
$1.58$1.44
(a) The Firm recognized other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) losses of $22 million, $4 million, and $21 million for the yea
rs ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 
respectively.
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated statements of comprehensive income
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report177Year ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Net income$24,442
$21,745$17,886
Other comprehensive income/(loss), after–taxUnrealized gains/(losses) on investment securities(2,144)1,975(4,070)
Translation adjustments, net of hedges(15)(11)(41)
Cash flow hedges5144(259)
Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans111(1,018)1,467
Total other comprehensive income/(loss), after–tax(1,997)
990(2,903)
Comprehensive income$22,445
$22,735$14,983
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated balance sheets
178JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportDecember 31, (in millions, except share data)20152014AssetsCash and due from banks$20,490
$27,831
Deposits with banks340,015484,477Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements (included 
$23,141 and $28,585 at fair value)
212,575215,803Securities borrowed (included
 $395 and $992 at fair value)
98,721110,435Trading assets (included assets pledged of 
$115,284 and $125,034)343,839398,988Securities (included $241,754 and $298,752 at fair value and assets pledged of 
$14,883 and $24,912)290,827348,004Loans (included 
$2,861 and $2,611 at fair value)
837,299757,336Allowance for loan losses(13,555)(14,185)Loans, net of allowance for loan losses823,744743,151Accrued interest and accounts receivable46,60570,079Premises and equipment14,36215,133Goodwill47,32547,647Mortgage servicing rights6,6087,436Other intangible assets1,0151,192Other assets (included $7,604 and $11,909 at fair value and assets pledged of 
$1,286 and $1,399)105,572102,098Total assets
(a)$2,351,698
$2,572,274
LiabilitiesDeposits (included $12,516 and $8,807 at fair value)
$1,279,715
$1,363,427
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements (included 
$3,526 and $2,979 at fair value)
152,678192,101Commercial paper15,56266,344Other borrowed funds (included 
$9,911 and $14,739 at fair value)
21,10530,222Trading liabilities126,897152,815Accounts payable and other liabilities (included 
$4,401 and $4,155 at fair value)
177,638206,939Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities (included 
$787 and $2,162 at fair value)
41,87952,320Long-term debt (included 
$33,065 and $30,226 at fair value)
288,651276,379Total liabilities
(a)2,104,1252,340,547Commitments and contingencies (see Notes 29, 30 and 31)
Stockholders’ equity
Preferred stock ($1 par value; authorized
 200,000,000 shares: issued 
2,606,750 and 2,006,250 shares)
26,06820,063Common stock ($1 par value; authorized 9,000,000,000 shares; issued 
4,104,933,895 shares)
4,1054,105Additional paid-in capital92,50093,270Retained earnings146,420129,977Accumulated other comprehensive income1922,189Shares held in restricted stock units (“RSU”) trust, at cost (
472,953 shares)
(21)(21)Treasury stock, at cost (
441,459,392 and 390,144,630 shares)
(21,691)(17,856)Total stockholders’ equity247,573231,727Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity$2,351,698
$2,572,274
(a) The following table presents information on assets and liabilities 
related to VIEs that are consolidated by the Firm at Dec
ember 31, 2015 and 2014. The difference between total 
VIE assets and liabilities represents the Firm’s interests in those entities, which were eliminated in consolidation.
December 31, (in millions)20152014AssetsTrading assets
$3,736
$9,090
Loans
75,10468,880All other assets2,7651,815Total assets
$81,605
$79,785
LiabilitiesBeneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities
$41,879
$52,320
All other liabilities809949Total liabilities
$42,688
$53,269
The assets of the consolidated VIEs are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The holders of the beneficial interes
ts do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan 
Chase. At both December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm provided limited program-wide credit enhancement of $2.0 billion, related t
o its Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, 
which are eliminated in consolidation. For further discussion, see Note 16.
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’ equity
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report179Year ended December 31, (in millions, except per share data)201520142013
Preferred stock
Balance at January 1
$20,063
$11,158$9,058
Issuance of preferred stock
6,0058,9053,900
Redemption of preferred stock
——(1,800)
Balance at December 3126,06820,06311,158
Common stock
Balance at January 1 and December 314,1054,1054,105
Additional paid-in capital
Balance at January 193,27093,82894,604
Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock for employee stock-based compensation awards, andrelated tax effects(436)(508)(752)
Other(334)(50)(24)
Balance at December 3192,50093,27093,828
Retained earnings
Balance at January 1129,977115,435104,223
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle——(284)
Balance at beginning of year, adjusted129,977
115,435103,939
Net income24,44221,74517,886
Dividends declared:Preferred stock(1,515)(1,125)(805)
Common stock (
$1.72, $1.58 and $1.44 per share for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively)
(6,484)(6,078)(5,585)
Balance at December 31146,420129,977115,435
Accumulated other comprehensive income

Balance at January 1
2,1891,1994,102
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
(1,997)990(2,903)
Balance at December 311922,1891,199
Shares held in RSU Trust, at cost

Balance at January 1 and December 31
(21)(21)(21)
Treasury stock, at cost

Balance at January 1
(17,856)(14,847)(12,002)
Purchase of treasury stock
(5,616)(4,760)(4,789)
Reissuance from treasury stock
1,7811,7511,944
Balance at December 31
(21,691)(17,856)(14,847)
Total stockholders’ equity
$247,573
$231,727$210,857
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated statements of cash flows
180JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportYear ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Operating activitiesNet income$24,442
$21,745$17,886
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities:
Provision for credit losses3,8273,139225
Depreciation and amortization4,9404,7595,306
Deferred tax expense1,3334,3628,139
Other1,7852,1131,552
Originations and purchases of loans held-for-sale
(48,109)(67,525)(75,928)
Proceeds from sales, securitizations and paydowns of loans held-for-sale
49,36371,40773,566
Net change in:
Trading assets62,212(24,814)89,110
Securities borrowed12,1651,0207,562
Accrued interest and accounts receivable22,664(3,637)(2,340)
Other assets(3,701)(9,166)526
Trading liabilities(28,972)26,818(9,772)
Accounts payable and other liabilities(23,361)6,058(5,750)
Other operating adjustments
(5,122)314(2,129)
Net cash provided by operating activities
73,46636,593107,953
Investing activities

Net change in:
Deposits with banks144,462(168,426)(194,363)
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements3,19030,84847,726
Held-to-maturity securities:Proceeds from paydowns and maturities6,0994,169189
Purchases(6,204)(10,345)(24,214)
Available-for-sale securities:
Proceeds from paydowns and maturities76,44890,66489,631
Proceeds from sales40,44438,41173,312
Purchases(70,804)(121,504)(130,266)
Proceeds from sales and securitizations of loans held-for-investment
18,60420,11512,033
Other changes in loans, net
(108,962)(51,749)(23,721)
All other investing activities, net
3,7032,181(828)
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities
106,980(165,636)(150,501)
Financing activities

Net change in:
Deposits(88,678)89,34681,476
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements(39,415)10,905(58,867)
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds(57,828)9,2422,784
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities(5,632)(834)(10,433)
Proceeds from long-term borrowings
79,61178,51583,546
Payments of long-term borrowings
(67,247)(65,275)(60,497)
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock
5,8938,8473,873
Redemption of preferred stock
——(1,800)
Treasury stock and warrants repurchased
(5,616)(4,760)(4,789)
Dividends paid(7,873)(6,990)(6,056)
All other financing activities, net
(726)(768)(913)
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities
(187,511)118,22828,324
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks
(276)(1,125)272
Net decrease in cash and due from banks
(7,341)(11,940)(13,952)
Cash and due from banks at the beginning of the period
27,83139,77153,723
Cash and due from banks at the end of the period
$20,490
$27,831$39,771
Cash interest paid
$7,220
$8,194$9,573
Cash income taxes paid, net
9,4231,3923,502
The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report181Note 1 – Basis of presentation
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”), a 
financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law 

in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one 

of the largest banking institutions in the United States of 

America (“U.S.”), with operations worldwide. The Firm is a 

leader in investment banking, financial services for 

consumers and small business, commercial banking, 

financial transaction processing and asset management. For 

a discussion of the Firm’s business segments, see Note 33.
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan 
Chase and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles 

generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). Additionally, 

where applicable, the policies conform to the accounting 

and reporting guidelines prescribed by regulatory 

authorities.   Certain amounts reported in prior periods have been 
reclassified to conform with the current presentation.   
Consolidation  The Consolidated Financial Statemen
ts include the accounts of JPMorgan Chase and other entities in which the Firm has 

a controlling financial interest. All material intercompany 

balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by 
the Firm are not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not 

included on the Consolidated balance sheets.
The Firm determines whether it has a controlling financial 
interest in an entity by first evaluating whether the entity is 

a voting interest entity or a variable interest entity (“VIE”).
Voting Interest Entities
Voting interest entities are entities that have sufficient 

equity and provide the equity investors voting rights that 

enable them to make significant decisions relating to the 

entity’s operations. For these types of entities, the Firm’s 

determination of whether it has a controlling interest is 

primarily based on the amount of voting equity interests 

held. Entities in which the Firm has a controlling financial 

interest, through ownership of the majority of the entities’ 

voting equity interests, or through other contractual rights 

that give the Firm control, are consolidated by the Firm.
Investments in companies in which the Firm has significant 
influence over operating and financing decisions (but does 

not own a majority of the voting equity interests) are 

accounted for (i) in accordance with the equity method of 

accounting (which requires the Firm to recognize its 

proportionate share of the entity’s net earnings), or (ii) at 

fair value if the fair value option was elected. These 

investments are generally included in other assets, with 

income or loss included in other income.
Certain Firm-sponsored asset management funds are 
structured as limited partnerships or limited liability 

companies. For many of these entities, the Firm is the 

general partner or managing member, but the non-affiliated 
partners or members have the ability to remove the Firm as 

the general partner or managing member without cause 

(i.e., kick-out rights), based on a simple majority vote, or 

the non-affiliated partners or members have rights to 

participate in important decisions. Accordingly, the Firm 

does not consolidate these funds. In the limited cases where 

the nonaffiliated partners or members do not have 

substantive kick-out or participating rights, the Firm 

consolidates the funds.
The Firm’s investment c
ompanies have investments in both 
publicly-held and privately-held entities, including 
investments in buyouts, growth equity and venture 

opportunities. These investments are accounted for under 

investment company guidelines 
and accordingly, 
irrespective of the percentage of equity ownership interests 

held, are carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair 

value, and are recorded in other assets.
Variable Interest Entities 
VIEs are entities that, by design, either (1) lack sufficient 

equity to permit the entity to finance its activities without 

additional subordinated financial support from other 

parties, or (2) have equity investors that do not have the 

ability to make significant decisions relating to the entity’s 

operations through voting rights, or do not have the 

obligation to absorb the expected losses, or do not have the 

right to receive the residual returns of the entity.
The most common type of VIE is a special purpose entity 
(“SPE”). SPEs are commonly used in securitization 

transactions in order to isolate certain assets and distribute 

the cash flows from those assets to investors. The basic SPE 

structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE; the 

SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities 

to investors. The legal documents that govern the 

transaction specify how the cash earned on the assets must 

be allocated to the SPE’s investors and other parties that 

have rights to those cash flows. SPEs are generally 

structured to insulate investors from claims on the SPE’s 

assets by creditors of other entities, including the creditors 

of the seller of the assets.The primary beneficiary of a VIE (i.e., the party that has a 
controlling financial interest) is required to consolidate the 

assets and liabilities of the VIE. The primary beneficiary is 

the party that has both (1) the power to direct the activities 

of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic 

performance; and (2) through its interests in the VIE, the 

obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits 

from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.
To assess whether the Firm has the power to direct the 
activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the VIE’s 

economic performance, the Firm considers all the facts and 

circumstances, including its role in establishing the VIE and 

its ongoing rights and responsibilities. This assessment 

includes, first, identifying the activities that most 

significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance; and 

second, identifying which party, if any, has power over those 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
182JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportactivities. In general, the parties that make the most 
significant decisions affecting the VIE (such as asset 

managers, collateral managers, servicers, or owners of call 

options or liquidation rights over the VIE’s assets) or have 

the right to unilaterally remove those decision-makers are 

deemed to have the power to direct the activities of a VIE.
To assess whether the Firm has the obligation to absorb 
losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the 

VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE, the Firm 

considers all of its economic interests, including debt and 

equity investments, servicing fees, and derivatives or other 

arrangements deemed to be variable interests in the VIE. 

This assessment requires that the Firm apply judgment in 

determining whether these interests, in the aggregate, are 

considered potentially significant to the VIE. Factors 

considered in assessing significance include: the design of 

the VIE, including its capitalization structure; subordination 

of interests; payment priority; relative share of interests 

held across various classes within the VIE’s capital 

structure; and the reasons why the interests are held by the 

Firm.
The Firm performs on-going reassessments of: (1) whether 
entities previously evaluated under the majority voting-

interest framework have become VIEs, based on certain 

events, and therefore subject to the VIE consolidation 

framework; and (2) whether changes in the facts and 

circumstances regarding the Firm’s involvement with a VIE 

cause the Firm’s consolidation conclusion to change.
In February 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards 
Board (“FASB”) issued an amendment which deferred the 

requirements of the accounting guidance for VIEs for 

certain investment funds, including mutual funds, private 

equity funds and hedge funds. For the funds to which the 

deferral applies, the Firm continues to apply other existing 

authoritative accounting guidance to determine whether 

such funds should be consolidated.   Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated 
financial statementsThe preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements 

requires management to make estimates and assumptions 

that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 

revenue and expense, and disclosures of contingent assets 

and liabilities. Actual results could be different from these 

estimates.   Foreign currency translation

JPMorgan Chase revalues assets, liabilities, revenue and 

expense denominated in non-U.S. currencies into U.S. 

dollars using applicable exchange rates.
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency 
financial statements for U.S. reporting are included in other 

comprehensive income/(loss) (“OCI”) within stockholders’ 

equity. Gains and losses relating to nonfunctional currency 

transactions, including non-U.S. operations where the 

functional currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported in the 

Consolidated statements of income.   
Offsetting assets and liabilities
U.S. GAAP permits entities to present derivative receivables 

and derivative payables with the same counterparty and the 

related cash collateral receivables and payables on a net 

basis on the Consolidated balance sheets when a legally 

enforceable master netting agreement exists. U.S. GAAP 

also permits securities sold and purchased under 

repurchase agreements to be presented net when specified 

conditions are met, including the existence of a legally 

enforceable master netting agreement. The Firm has 

elected to net such balances when the specified conditions 
are met.
The Firm uses master netting agreements to mitigate 
counterparty credit risk in certain transactions, including 

derivatives transactions, repurchase and reverse 

repurchase agreements, and securities borrowed and 

loaned agreements. A master netting agreement is a single 

contract with a counterparty that permits multiple 

transactions governed by that contract to be terminated 

and settled through a single payment in a single currency in 

the event of a default (e.g., bankruptcy, failure to make a 

required payment or securities transfer or deliver collateral 

or margin when due after expiration of any grace period). 

Upon the exercise of termination rights by the non-

defaulting party (i) all transactions are terminated, (ii) all 

transactions are valued and the positive value or “in the 

money” transactions are netted against the negative value 

or “out of the money” transactions and (iii) the only 

remaining payment obligation is of one of the parties to pay 

the netted termination amount. Upon exercise of 

repurchase agreement and securities loan default rights in 

general (i) all transactions are terminated and accelerated, 

(ii) all values of securities or cash held or to be delivered 

are calculated, and all such sums are netted against each 

other and (iii) the only remaining payment obligation is of 

one of the parties to pay the netted termination amount.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report183Typical master netting agreements for these types of 
transactions also often contain a collateral/margin 

agreement that provides for a security interest in, or title 

transfer of, securities or cash collateral/margin to the party 

that has the right to demand margin (the “demanding 

party”). The collateral/margin agreement typically requires 

a party to transfer collateral/margin to the demanding 

party with a value equal to the amount of the margin deficit 

on a net basis across all transactions governed by the 

master netting agreement, less any threshold. The 

collateral/margin agreement grants to the demanding 

party, upon default by the counterparty, the right to set-off 

any amounts payable by the counterparty against any 

posted collateral or the cash equivalent of any posted 

collateral/margin. It also grants to the demanding party the 

right to liquidate collateral/margin and to apply the 

proceeds to an amount payable by the counterparty.   
For further discussion of the Firm’s derivative instruments, 
see Note 6. For further discussion of the Firm’s repurchase 

and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities 

borrowing and lending agreements, see Note 13.
Simplifying the presenta
tion of debt issuance costs
Effective October 1, 2015, the Firm early adopted new 
accounting guidance that simplifies the presentation of debt 

issuance costs, by requiring that unamortized debt issuance 

costs be presented as a reduction of the applicable liability 

rather than as an asset. The adoption of this guidance had 

no material impact on the Firm’s Consolidated balance 

sheets, and no impact on the Firm’s consolidated results of 

operations. The guidance was required to be applied 

retrospectively, and accordingly, certain prior period 

amounts have been revised to conform with the current 

period presentation.
Investments in qualified affordable housing projects
Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new 

accounting guidance for in
vestments in affordable housing 
projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit, 

which impacted the Corporate & Investment Bank (“CIB”). 

As a result of the adoption of this new guidance, the Firm 

made an accounting policy election to amortize the initial 

cost of its qualifying investments in proportion to the tax 

credits and other benefits received, and to present the 

amortization as a component of income tax expense; 

previously such amounts were predominantly presented in 

other income. The guidance was required to be applied 

retrospectively, and accordingly, certain prior period 

amounts have been revised to conform with the current 

period presentation. The cumulative effect on retained 

earnings was a reduction of $284 million as of January 1, 

2013. The adoption of this accounting guidance resulted in 

an increase of $907 million and $924 million in other 

income and income tax expense, respectively, for the year 

ended December 31, 2014 and $761 million and $798 
million, respectively, for the year ended December 2013, 

which led to an increase of approximately 2% in the 

effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2014 

and 2013. The impact on net income and earnings per 
share in the periods affected was not material. For further 

information, see Note 26.
Statements of cash flows
For JPMorgan Chase’s Consolidated statements of cash 

flows, cash is defined as those amounts included in cash 
and due from banks.   
Significant accounting policies
The following table identifies JPMorgan Chase’s other 

significant accounting policies and the Note and page where 

a detailed description of each policy can be found.
Fair value measurementNote 3Page 184
Fair value optionNote 4Page 203
Derivative instrumentsNote 6Page 208
Noninterest revenueNote 7Page 221
Interest income and interest expenseNote 8Page 223
Pension and other postretirementemployee benefit plansNote 9Page 223
Employee stock-based incentivesNote 10Page 231

SecuritiesNote 12Page 233
Securities financing activitiesNote 13Page 238
LoansNote 14Page 242
Allowance for credit lossesNote 15Page 262
Variable interest entitiesNote 16Page 266
Goodwill and other intangible assetsNote 17Page 274

Premises and equipmentNote 18Page 278
Long-term debtNote 21Page 279
Income taxesNote 26Page 285
Off–balance sheet lending-relatedfinancial instruments, guarantees andother commitmentsNote 29Page 290
LitigationNote 31Page 297
Note 2 – Business changes and developments 
Private Equity sale
As part of the Firm’s business simplification agenda, the 

sale of a portion of the Private Equity Business (“Private 

Equity sale”) was completed on January 9, 2015. 

Concurrent with the sale, a new independent management 

company was formed by the former One Equity Partners 

investment professionals. The 
new management company 
provides investment management services to the acquirer 

of the investments sold in the Private Equity sale and to the 

Firm for the portion of the private equity investments that 

were retained by the Firm. The sale of the investments did 

not have a material impact on the Firm’s Consolidated 

balance sheets or its results of operations.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
184JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 3 – Fair value measurement
JPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities 
at fair value. These assets and liabilities are predominantly 

carried at fair value on a recurring basis (i.e., assets and 

liabilities that are measured and reported at fair value on 

the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets). Certain assets 

(e.g., certain mortgage, home equity and other loans where 

the carrying value is based on the fair value of the 

underlying collateral), liabilities and unfunded lending-

related commitments are measured at fair value on a 

nonrecurring basis; that is, they are not measured at fair 

value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value 

adjustments only in certain circumstances (for example, 

when there is evidence of impairment).   
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 

transaction between market participants at the 

measurement date. Fair value is based on quoted market 

prices, where available. If listed prices or quotes are not 

available, fair value is based on models that consider 

relevant transaction characteristics (such as maturity) and 

use as inputs observable or unobservable market 

parameters, including but not limited to yield curves, 

interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign 

exchange rates and credit curves. Valuation adjustments 

may be made to ensure that financial instruments are 

recorded at fair value, as described below. 
The level of precision in estimating unobservable market 
inputs or other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss 

recorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while the 

Firm believes its valuation methods are appropriate and 

consistent with those of other market participants, the 

methods and assumptions used reflect management 

judgment and may vary across the Firm’s businesses and 

portfolios. 
The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in 
the determination of fair value. The use of different 

methodologies or assumptions by other market participants 

compared with those used by the Firm could result in a 

different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. 
Valuation process

Risk-taking functions are responsible for providing fair value 

estimates for assets and liabilities carried on the 

Consolidated balance sheets at fair value. The Firm’s 

valuation control function, which is part of the Firm’s 

Finance function and independent of the risk-taking 

functions, is responsible for verifying these estimates and 

determining any fair value adjustments that may be 

required to ensure that the Firm’s positions are recorded at 

fair value. In addition, the firmwide Valuation Governance 

Forum (“VGF”) is composed of senior finance and risk 

executives and is responsible for overseeing the 

management of risks arising from valuation activities 

conducted across the Firm. The VGF is chaired by the 

Firmwide head of the valuation control function (under the 

direction of the Firm’s Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”)), and 
includes sub-forums covering the Corporate & Investment 

Bank, Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”), Commercial 

Banking, Asset Management and certain corporate 

functions including Treasury and Chief Investment Office 

(“CIO”).
The valuation control function verifies fair value estimates 
provided by the risk-taking functions by leveraging 

independently derived prices, valuation inputs and other 

market data, where available. Where independent prices or 

inputs are not available, additional review is performed by 

the valuation control function to ensure the reasonableness 

of the estimates. The review may include evaluating the 

limited market activity including client unwinds, 

benchmarking of valuation inputs to those for similar 

instruments, decomposing the valuation of structured 

instruments into individual components, comparing 

expected to actual cash flows, reviewing profit and loss 

trends, and reviewing trends in collateral valuation. There 

are also additional levels of management review for more 

significant or complex positions.
The valuation control function determines any valuation 
adjustments that may be required to the estimates provided 

by the risk-taking functions. No adjustments are applied to 

the quoted market price for instruments classified within 

level 1 of the fair value hierarchy (see below for further 

information on the fair value hierarchy). For other 

positions, judgment is required to assess the need for 

valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect liquidity 

considerations, unobservable parameters, and, for certain 

portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net 

open risk position. The determination of such adjustments 
follows a consistent framework across the Firm:
• Liquidity valuation adjustments are considered where an 
observable external price or valuation parameter exists 
but is of lower reliability, potentially due to lower market 

activity. Liquidity valuation adjustments are applied and 

determined based on current market conditions. Factors 

that may be considered in determining the liquidity 

adjustment include analysis of: (1) the estimated bid-

offer spread for the instrument being traded; (2) 

alternative pricing points for similar instruments in 

active markets; and (3) the range of reasonable values 

that the price or parameter could take. 
• The Firm manages certain portfolios of financial 
instruments on the basis of net open risk exposure and, 

as permitted by U.S. GAAP, has elected to estimate the 

fair value of such portfolios on the basis of a transfer of 

the entire net open risk position in an orderly 

transaction. Where this is the case, valuation 

adjustments may be necessary to reflect the cost of 

exiting a larger-than-normal market-size net open risk 

position. Where applied, such adjustments are based on 

factors that a relevant market participant would 

consider in the transfer of the net open risk position, 

including the size of the adverse market move that is 

likely to occur during the period required to reduce the 

net open risk position to a normal market-size.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report185• Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments may be 
made when positions are valued using prices or input 
parameters to valuation models that are unobservable 

due to a lack of market activity or because they cannot 

be implied from observable market data. Such prices or 

parameters must be estimated and are, therefore, 

subject to management judgment. Unobservable 

parameter valuation adjustments are applied to reflect 

the uncertainty inherent in the resulting valuation 

estimate. 
Where appropriate, the Firm also applies adjustments to its 

estimates of fair value in order to appropriately reflect 

counterparty credit quality, the Firm’s own creditworthiness 

and the impact of funding, utilizing a consistent framework 

across the Firm. For more information on such adjustments 

see Credit and funding adjustments on page 200 of this 

Note.
Valuation model review and approval 

If prices or quotes are not available for an instrument or a 

similar instrument, fair value is generally determined using 

valuation models that consider relevant transaction data 

such as maturity and use as inputs market-based or 

independently sourced parameters. Where this is the case 

the price verification process described above is applied to 

the inputs to those models. The Model Risk function is independent of the model 
owners. It reviews and app
roves a wide range of models, including risk management, valuation and regulatory capital 

models used by the Firm. The Model Risk review and 

governance functions are part of the Firm’s Model Risk unit, 

and the Firmwide Model Risk Executive reports to the Firm’s 

Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”). When reviewing a model, the 

Model Risk function analyzes and challenges the model 

methodology, and the reasonableness of model 

assumptions and may perform or require additional testing, 

including back-testing of model outcomes. 
New valuation models, as well as material changes to 
existing valuation models, are reviewed and approved prior to implementation except where specified conditions are 

met, including the 
approval of an exception granted by the 
head of the Model Risk function. The Model Risk function 

performs an annual status assessment that considers 

developments in the product or market to determine 

whether valuation models which have already been 

reviewed need to be, on a full or partial basis, reviewed and 

approved again.
Valuation hierarchy 

A three-level valuation hierarchy has been established 

under U.S. GAAP for disclosure of fair value measurements. 

The valuation hierarchy is based on the transparency of 

inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the 

measurement date. The three levels are defined as follows. 
• Level 1 – inputs to the valuation methodology are 
quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or 
liabilities in active markets. 
• Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include 
quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active 

markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or 

liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the 

full term of the financial instrument.
• Level 3 – one or more inputs to the valuation 
methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair 

value measurement. 
A financial instrument’s categorization within the valuation 

hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is 

significant to the fair value measurement.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
186JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table describes the valuation methodologies generally used by the Firm to measure its significant products/
instruments at fair value, including the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy. 
Product/instrument Valuation methodologyClassifications in the valuationhierarchySecurities financing agreementsValuations are based on discounted cash flows, which consider:Level 2
•  Derivative features: for further information refer to the discussionof derivatives below.•  Market rates for the respective maturity•  CollateralLoans and lending-related commitments — wholesaleTrading portfolioWhere observable market data is available, valuations are based on:Level 2 or 3
•  Observed market prices (circumstances are infrequent)
•  Relevant broker quotes
•  Observed market prices for similar instrumentsWhere observable market data is unavailable or limited, valuationsare based on discounted cash flows, which consider the following:•  Credit spreads derived from the cost of credit default swaps(“CDS”); or benchmark credit curves developed by the Firm, by
industry and credit rating•  Prepayment speedLoans held for investment and
associated lending-related
commitmentsValuations are based on discounted cash flows, which consider:Predominantly level 3
•  Credit spreads, derived from the cost of CDS; or benchmark creditcurves developed by the Firm, by industry and credit rating•  Prepayment speedLending-related commitments are valued similar to loans and reflect
the portion of an unused commitment expected, based on the Firm’s
average portfolio historical experience, to become funded prior to an
obligor defaultFor information regarding the valuation of loans measured atcollateral value, see Note 14.Loans — consumerHeld for investment consumer
loans, excluding credit cardValuations are based on discounted cash flows, which consider:Predominantly level 3
•  Expected lifetime credit losses -considering expected and currentdefault rates, and loss severity•  Prepayment speed
•  Discount rates

•   Servicing costs
For information regarding the valuation of loans measured atcollateral value, see Note 14.Held for investment credit card
receivablesValuations are based on discounted cash flows, which consider:Level 3
•  Credit costs — allowance for loan losses is considered areasonable proxy for the credit cost•  Projected interest income, late-fee revenue and loan repaymentrates•  Discount rates•  Servicing costsTrading loans — conformingresidential mortgage loans
expected to be soldFair value is based upon observable prices for mortgage-backed
securities with similar collateral and incorporates adjustments to
these prices to account for differences between the securities and the
value of the underlying loans, which include credit characteristics,
portfolio composition, and liquidity.Predominantly level 2JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report187Product/instrumentValuation methodology, inputs and assumptions
Classifications in the valuationhierarchyInvestment and trading
securitiesQuoted market prices are used where available.Level 1
In the absence of quoted market prices, securities are valued based on:Level 2 or 3
•  Observable market prices for similar securities•  Relevant broker quotes

•  Discounted cash flows
In addition, the following inputs to discounted cash flows are used forthe following products:Mortgage- and asset-backed securities specific inputs:•  Collateral characteristics
•  Deal-specific payment and loss allocations
•  Current market assumptions related to yield, prepayment speed,conditional default rates and loss severityCollateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”), specific inputs:•  Collateral characteristics

•  Deal-specific payment and loss allocations

•  Expected prepayment speed, conditional default rates, loss severity

•  Credit spreads

•  Credit rating dataPhysical commoditiesValued using observable market prices or dataPredominantly Level 1 and 2

DerivativesExchange-traded derivatives that are actively traded and valued using
the exchange price.Level 1Derivatives that are valued using models such as the Black-Scholesoption pricing model, simulation models, or a combination of models,
that use observable or unobservable valuation inputs (e.g., plain vanilla
options and interest rate and credit default swaps). Inputs include:Level 2 or 3•  Contractual terms including the period to maturity
•  Readily observable parameters including interest rates and volatility

•  Credit quality of the counterparty and of the Firm

•  Market funding levels

•  Correlation levels
In addition, the following specific inputs are used for the followingderivatives that are valued based on models with significant
unobservable inputs:Structured credit derivatives specific inputs include:•  CDS spreads and recovery rates
•  Credit correlation between the underlying debt instruments (levels 
are modeled on a transaction basis and calibrated to liquid 
benchmark tranche indices)
•  Actual transactions, where available, are used to regularly 
recalibrate unobservable parameters
Certain long-dated equity option specific inputs include:•  Long-dated equity volatilities
Certain interest rate and foreign exchange (“FX
”) exotic options specific 
inputs include:
•  Interest rate correlation
•  Interest rate spread volatility

•  Foreign exchange correlation

•  Correlation between interest rates and foreign exchange rates

•  Parameters describing the evolution of underlying interest rates
Certain commodity derivatives specific inputs include:•  Commodity volatility

•  Forward commodity priceAdditionally, adjustments are made to reflect counterparty credit quality(credit valuation adjustments or “CVA”), the Firm’s own creditworthiness
(debit valuation adjustments or “DVA”), and funding valuation
adjustment (“FVA”) to incorporate the impact of funding. See page 200
of this Note.Notes to consolidated financial statements
188JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportProduct/instrumentValuation methodology, inputs and assumptionsClassification in the valuationhierarchyMortgage servicing rights
(“MSRs”)See Mortgage servicing rights in Note 17.Level 3Private equity direct investmentsPrivate equity direct investmentsLevel 2 or 3Fair value is estimated using all available information and considering
the range of potential inputs, including:•  Transaction prices•  Trading multiples of comparable public companies
•  Operating performance of the underlying portfolio company
•  Additional available inputs relevant to the investment
•  Adjustments as required, since comparable public companies arenot identical to the company being valued, and for company-specific issues and lack of liquidityPublic investments held in the Private Equity portfolioLevel 1 or 2•  Valued using observable market prices less adjustments forrelevant restrictions, where applicableFund investments (i.e., mutual/
collective investment funds,
private equity funds, hedge
funds, and real estate funds)Net asset value (“NAV”)•  NAV is validated by sufficient level of observable activity (i.e.,purchases and sales)Level 1•  Adjustments to the NAV as required, for restrictions on redemption(e.g., lock up periods or withdrawal limitations) or where
observable activity is limitedLevel 2 or 3
(a)Beneficial interests issued by
consolidated VIEsValued using observable market information, where availableLevel 2 or 3
In the absence of observable market information, valuations arebased on the fair value of the underlying assets held by the VIELong-term debt, not carried at
fair valueValuations are based on discounted cash flows, which consider:Predominantly level 2
•  Market rates for respective maturity
•  The Firm’s own creditworthiness (DVA). See page 200 of 
    this Note.
Structured notes (included in
deposits, other borrowed funds
and long-term debt)•  Valuations are based on discounted cash flow analyses that 
consider the embedded derivative and the terms and payment 

structure of the note.
•  The embedded derivative features are considered using models 
such as the Black-Scholes option pricing model, simulation 

models, or a combination of models that use observable or 

unobservable valuation inputs, depending on the embedded 

derivative. The specific inputs used vary according to the nature of 

the embedded derivative features, as described in the discussion 

above regarding derivative valuation. Adjustments are then made 

to this base valuation to reflect the Firm’s own creditworthiness 

(DVA) and to incorporate the impact of funding (FVA). See page 

200 of this Note.
Level 2 or 3(a) Excludes certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a p
ractical expedient.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report189The following table presents the asset and liabilities reported at fair value as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, by major 
product category and fair value hierarchy.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Fair value hierarchyDecember 31, 2015 (in millions)Level 1Level 2Level 3
Derivative nettingadjustmentsTotal fair value
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements$—$23,141$—$—$23,141
Securities borrowed—395——395
Trading assets:Debt instruments:Mortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies
(a)631,815715—32,536Residential – nonagency—1,299194—1,493Commercial – nonagency—1,080115—1,195Total mortgage-backed securities634,1941,024—35,224U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)12,0366,985——19,021Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities—6,986651—7,637Certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances and commercial paper—1,042——1,042Non-U.S. government debt securities27,97425,06474—53,112Corporate debt securities—22,807736—23,543Loans
(b)—22,2116,604—28,815Asset-backed securities—2,3921,832—4,224Total debt instruments40,016121,68110,921—172,618Equity securities94,059606265—94,930Physical commodities
(c)
3,5931,064——4,657Other—11,152744—11,896Total debt and equity instruments
(d)137,668134,50311,930—284,101Derivative receivables:Interest rate354666,4912,766(643,248)
26,363Credit—48,8502,618(50,045)
1,423Foreign exchange734177,5251,616(162,698)
17,177Equity—35,150709(30,330)
5,529Commodity10824,720237(15,880)
9,185Total derivative receivables
(e)
1,196952,7367,946(902,201)
59,677Total trading assets138,8641,087,239
19,876(902,201)
343,778Available-for-sale securities:Mortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies
(a)—55,066——55,066Residential – nonagency—27,6181—27,619Commercial – nonagency—22,897——22,897Total mortgage-backed securities—105,5811—105,582U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)10,99838——11,036Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities—33,550——33,550Certificates of deposit—283——283Non-U.S. government debt securities23,19913,477——36,676Corporate debt securities—12,436——12,436Asset-backed securities:Collateralized loan obligations—30,248759—31,007Other—9,03364—9,097Equity securities2,087———2,087Total available-for-sale securities36,284204,646824—241,754Loans—1,3431,518—2,861Mortgage servicing rights——6,608—6,608Other assets:Private equity investments
(f)
1021011,657—1,860All other3,81528744—4,587Total other assets3,9171292,401—6,447Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis$179,065$1,316,893
(g)$31,227
(g)$(902,201)$624,984
Deposits$—$9,566$2,950$—$12,516
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements—3,526——3,526
Other borrowed funds—9,272639—9,911
Trading liabilities:Debt and equity instruments
(d)53,84520,19963—74,107Derivative payables:Interest rate216633,0601,890(624,945)
10,221Credit—48,4602,069(48,988)
1,541Foreign exchange669187,8902,341(171,131)
19,769Equity—36,4402,223(29,480)
9,183Commodity5226,4301,172(15,578)
12,076Total derivative payables
(e)
937932,2809,695(890,122)
52,790Total trading liabilities54,782952,4799,758(890,122)
126,897Accounts payable and other liabilities4,382—19—4,401Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs—238549—787Long-term debt—21,45211,613—33,065Total liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis$59,164$996,533$25,528$(890,122)$191,103
Notes to consolidated financial statements
190JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportFair value hierarchyDecember 31, 2014 (in millions)Level 1Level 2Level 3
DerivativenettingadjustmentsTotal fair value
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements$—$28,585$—$—$28,585
Securities borrowed—992——992
Trading assets:Debt instruments:Mortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies
(a)1431,904922—32,840Residential – nonagency—1,381663—2,044Commercial – nonagency—927306—1,233Total mortgage-backed securities1434,2121,891—36,117U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)17,8168,460——26,276Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities—9,2981,273—10,571Certificates of deposit, bankers’ acceptances and commercial paper—1,429——1,429Non-U.S. government debt securities25,85427,294302—53,450Corporate debt securities—28,0992,989—31,088Loans
(b)—23,08013,287—36,367Asset-backed securities—3,0881,264—4,352Total debt instruments43,684134,960
21,006—199,650Equity securities104,890624431—105,945Physical commodities
(c)
2,7391,7412—4,482Other—8,7621,050—9,812Total debt and equity instruments
(d)151,313146,087
22,489—319,889Derivative receivables:Interest rate473945,635
(g)4,149(916,532)(g)33,725Credit—73,8532,989(75,004)1,838
Foreign exchange758212,153
(g)2,276(193,934)(g)21,253Equity—39,937
(g)2,552(34,312)
(g)8,177Commodity24742,807599(29,671)13,982
Total derivative receivables
(e)
1,4781,314,385
(g)12,565(1,249,453)(g)78,975Total trading assets152,7911,460,472
(g)35,054(1,249,453)(g)398,864Available-for-sale securities:Mortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies
(a)—65,319——65,319Residential – nonagency—50,86530—50,895Commercial – nonagency—21,00999—21,108Total mortgage-backed securities—137,193
129—137,322U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)13,59154——13,645Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities—30,068——30,068Certificates of deposit—1,103——1,103Non-U.S. government debt securities24,07428,669——52,743Corporate debt securities—18,532——18,532Asset-backed securities:Collateralized loan obligations—29,402792—30,194Other—12,499116—12,615Equity securities2,530———2,530Total available-for-sale securities40,195257,520
1,037—298,752Loans—702,541—2,611Mortgage servicing rights——7,436—7,436Other assets:Private equity investments
(f)
6482,6242,225—5,497All other4,01817959—4,994Total other assets4,6662,6413,184—10,491Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis$197,652$1,750,280
(g)$49,252$(1,249,453)
(g)$747,731
Deposits$—$5,948$2,859$—$8,807
Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements—2,979——2,979

Other borrowed funds—13,2861,453—14,739
Trading liabilities:Debt and equity instruments
(d)62,91418,71372—81,699Derivative payables:Interest rate499914,357
(g)3,523(900,634)(g)17,745Credit—73,0952,800(74,302)1,593
Foreign exchange746221,066
(g)2,802(201,644)(g)22,970Equity—41,925
(g)4,337(34,522)
(g)11,740Commodity14144,3181,164(28,555)17,068
Total derivative payables
(e)
1,3861,294,761
(g)14,626(1,239,657)(g)71,116Total trading liabilities64,3001,313,474
(g)14,698(1,239,657)(g)152,815Accounts payable and other liabilities 
(g)
4,129—26—4,155Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs—1,0161,146—2,162Long-term debt—18,34911,877—30,226Total liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis$68,429$1,355,052
(g)$32,059$(1,239,657)
(g)$215,883
Note: Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for investments in certain entities that calculate net 
asset value per share (or its equivalent). As a result of the 
adoption of this new guidance, certain investments that are measured at fair value using the net asset value per share (or its 
equivalent) as a practical expedient are not required to be 

classified in the fair value hierarchy. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair values of these investments, which include cert
ain hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate and other 
funds, were $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, of which $337 million and $1.2 billion had been previously classified 
in level 2 and level 3, respectively, at December 31, 2014. 

Included on the Firm’s balance sheet at December 31, 2015 and 2014, were trading assets of $61 million and $124 million, respec
tively, and other assets of $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion, 
respectively. The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively, and accordingly, prior period amounts have been revised 
to conform with the current period presentation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report191(a) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, included total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations of $67.0 billion and $84.1 b
illion, respectively, which were predominantly 
mortgage-related.
(b) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, included within trading loans were $11.8 billion and $17.0 billion, respectively, of residen
tial first-lien mortgages, and $4.3 billion and $5.8 
billion, respectively, of commercial first-lien mortgages. Residential mortgage loans include conforming mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell to U.S. government 
agencies of $5.3 billion and $7.7 billion, respectively, and reverse mortgages of $2.5 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.
(c) Physical commodities inventories are gener
ally accounted for at the lower of cost or market. “Market” is a term defined in 
U.S. GAAP as not exceeding fair value less costs to sell 
(“transaction costs”). Transaction costs for the Firm’s physical commodities inventories are either not applicable or immateria
l to the value of the inventory. Therefore, market 
approximates fair value for the Firm’s physical commodities inventories. When fair value hedging has been applied (or when mark
et is below cost), the carrying value of physical 
commodities approximates fair value, because under fair value hedge ac
counting, the cost basis is adjusted for changes in fair 
value. For a further discussion of the Firm’s hedge 
accounting relationships, see Note 6. To provide consistent 
fair value disclosure information, all physical commodities invento
ries have been included in each period presented.
(d) Balances reflect the reduction of securities owned (long positions) by the amount of identical securities sold but not yet 
purchased (short positions).
(e) As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related ca
sh collateral received and paid when a legally 
enforceable master netting agreement exists. For purposes of the tables above, the Firm does not reduce derivative receivables 
and derivative payables balances for this netting 
adjustment, either within or across the levels of the fair value hierarchy, as such netting is not relevant to a presentation b
ased on the transparency of inputs to the valuation of 

an asset or liability. However, if the Firm were to net such balances within level 3, the reduction in the level 3 derivative r
eceivables and payables balances would be $546 
million and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively; this is exclusive of the netting benefit associated with 
cash collateral, which would further reduce the 
level 3 balances.
(f) Private equity instruments represent investments within the Corporate line of business. The cost basis of the private equit
y investment portfolio totaled $3.5 billion and $6.0 
billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
(g) Certain prior period amounts (including the corresponding fair value 
parenthetical disclosure for accounts payable and other li
abilities on the Consolidated balance sheets) were 
revised to conform with the current period presentation.
Transfers between levels for instruments carried at fair 

value on a recurring basis

For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, there 

were no significant transfers between levels 1 and 2.
During the year ended December 31, 2015, transfers from 
level 3 to level 2 and from level 2 to level 3 included the 

following:
• $3.1 billion of long-term debt and $1.0 billion of 
deposits driven by an increase in observability on 
certain structured notes with embedded interest rate 

and FX derivatives and a reduction of the significance in 

the unobservable inputs for certain structured notes 

with embedded equity derivatives
• $2.1 billion of gross equity derivatives for both 
receivables and payables as a result of an increase in 

observability and a decrease in the significance in 

unobservable inputs; partially offset by transfers into 

level 3 resulting in net transfers of approximately $1.2 

billion for both receivables and payables
• $2.8 billion of trading loans driven by an increase in 
observability of certain collateralized financing 

transactions; and $2.4 billion of corporate debt driven 

by a decrease in the significance in the unobservable 

inputs and an increase in observability for certain 

structured products
During the year ended December 31, 2014, transfers from 

level 3 to level 2 included the following:
• $4.3 billion and $4.4 billion of gross equity derivative 
receivables and payables, respectively, due to increased 
observability of certain equity option valuation inputs
• $2.7 billion of trading loans, $2.6 billion of margin 
loans, $2.3 billion of private equity investments, $2.0 

billion of corporate debt, and $1.3 billion of long-term 

debt, based on increased liquidity and price 

transparency
Transfers from level 2 into level 3 included $1.1 billion of 

other borrowed funds, $1.1 billion of trading loans and 

$1.0 billion of long-term debt, based on a decrease in 

observability of valuation inputs and price transparency.
During the year ended December 31, 2013, transfers from 

level 3 to level 2 included the following: 
• Certain highly rated CLOs, including $27.4 billion held in 
the Firm
’s available-for-sale (“AFS”) securities portfolio 
and $1.4 billion held in the trading portfolio, based on 
increased liquidity and price transparency; 
• $1.3 billion of long-term debt, largely driven by an 
increase in observability of certain equity structured 

notes. Transfers from level 2 to level 3 included $1.4 billion of 

corporate debt securities in the trading portfolio largely 

driven by a decrease in observability for certain credit 

instruments.All transfers are assumed to occur at the beginning of the 
quarterly reporting period in which they occur. 
Level 3 valuations

The Firm has established well-documented processes for 

determining fair value, including for instruments where fair 

value is estimated using significant unobservable inputs 

(level 3). For further information on the Firm’s valuation 

process and a detailed discussion of the determination of 

fair value for individual financial instruments, see pages 

185–188 of this Note. 
Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. 
The type and level of judgment required is largely 

dependent on the amount of observable market information 

available to the Firm. For instruments valued using 

internally developed models that use significant 

unobservable inputs and are therefore classified within 

level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, judgments used to 

estimate fair value are more significant than those required 

when estimating the fair value of instruments classified 

within levels 1 and 2. 
In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument 
within level 3, management must first determine the 

appropriate model to use. Second, due to the lack of 

observability of significant inputs, management must assess 

all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs 

including, but not limited to, transaction details, yield 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
192JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportcurves, interest rates, prepayment speed, default rates, 
volatilities, correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of 

comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit 

curves. 
The following table presents the Firm’s primary level 3 
financial instruments, the valuation techniques used to 

measure the fair value of those financial instruments, the 

significant unobservable inputs, the range of values for 

those inputs and, for certain instruments, the weighted 

averages of such inputs. While the determination to classify 

an instrument within level 3 is based on the significance of 

the unobservable inputs to the overall fair value 

measurement, level 3 financial instruments typically include 

observable components (that is, components that are 

actively quoted and can be validated to external sources) in 

addition to the unobservable components. The level 1 and/

or level 2 inputs are not included in the table. In addition, 

the Firm manages the risk of the observable components of 

level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivative 

positions that are classified within levels 1 or 2 of the fair 

value hierarchy. 
The range of values presented in the table is representative 
of the highest and lowest level input used to value the 

significant groups of instruments within a product/

instrument classification. Where provided, the weighted 

averages of the input values presented in the table are 

calculated based on the fair value of the instruments that 

the input is being used to value. 
In the Firm’s view, the input range and the weighted 

average value do not reflect the degree of input uncertainty 

or an assessment of the reasonableness of the Firm’s 

estimates and assumptions. Rather, they reflect the 

characteristics of the various instruments held by the Firm 

and the relative distribution of instruments within the range 

of characteristics. For example, two option contracts may 

have similar levels of market risk exposure and valuation 

uncertainty, but may have significantly different implied 

volatility levels because the option contracts have different 

underlyings, tenors, or strike prices. The input range and 

weighted average values will therefore vary from period-to-

period and parameter-to-parameter based on the 

characteristics of the instruments held by the Firm at each 

balance sheet date. 
For the Firm’s derivatives and structured notes positions 
classified within level 3 at December 31, 2015, interest 

rate correlation inputs used in estimating fair value were 

concentrated towards the upper end of the range 

presented; equities correlation inputs we
re concentrated at 
the lower end of the range;
 the credit correlation inputs 
were distributed across the range presented; and the 

foreign exchange correlation inputs were concentrated at 

the top end of the range presented. In addition, the interest 

rate volatility inputs and the foreign exchange correlation 

inputs used in estimating fair value were each concentrated 

at the upper end of the range presented. The equity 

volatilities are concentrated in the lower half end of the 

range. The forward commodity prices used in estimating the 

fair value of commodity derivatives were concentrated 

within the lower end of the range presented. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report193Level 3 inputs
(a)December 31, 2015 (in millions, except for ratios and basis points)Product/InstrumentFairvaluePrincipal valuationtechniqueUnobservable inputsRange of input values
WeightedaverageResidential mortgage-backedsecurities and loans$5,212Discounted cash flowsYield3%-26%6%
Prepayment speed0%-20%6%
Conditional default rate0%-33%2%

Loss severity0%-100%28%
Commercial mortgage-backed 
securities and loans(b)2,844Discounted cash flowsYield
1%-25%
6%Conditional default rate0%-91%
29%Loss severity40%40%Corporate debt securities, obligations 
of U.S. states and municipalities, and 
other(c)
3,277Discounted cash flowsCredit spread
60 bps-225 bps146 bps
Yield1%-20%
5%2,740Market comparablesPrice
$—-$168$89
Net interest rate derivatives876Option pricing
Interest rate correlation(52)%-99%
Interest rate spread volatility3%-38%
Net credit derivatives
(b)(c)
549Discounted cash flowsCredit correlation
35%-90%
Net foreign exchange derivatives(725)Option pricing
Foreign exchange correlation0%-
60%Net equity derivatives(1,514)Option pricing
Equity volatility20%-65%
Net commodity derivatives(935)Discounted cash flowsForward commodity price$22-$46 per barrel
Collateralized loan obligations759Discounted cash flowsCredit spread
354 bps-550 bps396 bps
Prepayment speed20%20%Conditional default rate2%2%Loss severity40%40%180Market comparablesPrice
$—-$99
$69Mortgage servicing rights6,608Discounted cash flowsRefer to Note 17
Private equity investments1,657Market comparablesEBITDA multiple
7.2x-10.4x8.5x
Liquidity adjustment0%-13%
8%Long-term debt, other borrowed funds, 
and deposits(d)14,707Option pricing
Interest rate correlation(52)%-99%

Interest rate spread volatility3%-38%
Foreign exchange correlation0%-60%

Equity correlation(50)%-80%
495Discounted cash flowsCredit correlation35%-90%
Beneficial interests issued by 
consolidated VIEs(e)
549Discounted cash flowsYield
4%-28%4%
Prepayment Speed1%-12%6%
Conditional default rate2%-15%2%

Loss severity30%-100%31%
(a) The categories presented in the table have been aggregated based upon the product type, which may differ from their classification on the Consolidated 
balance sheets.(b) The unobservable inputs and associated input ranges for approximately $349 million of credit derivative receivables and $31
0 million of credit derivative 
payables with underlying commercial mortgage risk have been included in the inputs and ranges provided for commercial mortgage-
backed securities and 
loans.(c) The unobservable inputs and associated input ranges for approximately $434 million of credit derivative receivables and $40
1 million of credit derivative 
payables with underlying asset-backed securities risk have been included in the inputs and ranges provided for corporate debt s
ecurities, obligations of 

U.S. states and municipalities and other.
(d) Long-term debt, other borrowed funds and deposits include structured notes issued by the Firm that are predominantly financ
ial instruments containing 
embedded derivatives. The estimation of the fair value of structured notes is predominantly based on the derivative features embedded within the 

instruments. The significant unobservable inputs are broadly consisten
t with those presented for derivative receivables.
(e)  The parameters are related to residential mortgage-backed securities.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
194JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportChanges in and ranges of unobservable inputs 
The following discussion provides a description of the 

impact on a fair value measurement of a change in each 

unobservable input in isolation, and the interrelationship 

between unobservable inputs, where relevant and 

significant. The impact of changes in inputs may not be 

independent as a change in one unobservable input may 

give rise to a change in another unobservable input; where 

relationships exist between two unobservable inputs, those 

relationships are discussed below. Relationships may also 

exist between observable and unobservable inputs (for 

example, as observable interest rates rise, unobservable 

prepayment rates decline); such relationships have not 

been included in the discussion below. In addition, for each 

of the individual relationships described below, the inverse 

relationship would also generally apply. 
In addition, the following discussion provides a description 
of attributes of the underlying instruments and external 

market factors that affect the range of inputs used in the 

valuation of the Firm’s positions. 
Yield – The yield of an asset is the interest rate used to 
discount future cash flows in a discounted cash flow 

calculation. An increase in the yield, in isolation, would 

result in a decrease in a fair value measurement. 
Credit spread – The credit spread is the amount of 
additional annualized return over the market interest rate 

that a market participant would demand for taking 

exposure to the credit risk of an instrument. The credit 

spread for an instrument forms part of the discount rate 

used in a discounted cash flow calculation. Generally, an 

increase in the credit spread would result in a decrease in a 

fair value measurement. 
The yield and the credit spread of a particular mortgage-
backed security primarily reflect the risk inherent in the 

instrument. The yield is also impacted by the absolute level 

of the coupon paid by the instrument (which may not 

correspond directly to the level of inherent risk). Therefore, 

the range of yield and credit spreads reflects the range of 

risk inherent in various instruments owned by the Firm. The 

risk inherent in mortgage-backed securities is driven by the 

subordination of the security being valued and the 

characteristics of the underlying mortgages within the 

collateralized pool, including borrower FICO scores, loan-to-

value ratios for residential mortgages and the nature of the 

property and/or any tenants for commercial mortgages. For 

corporate debt securities, obligations of U.S. states and 

municipalities and other similar instruments, credit spreads 

reflect the credit quality of the obligor and the tenor of the 

obligation. 
Prepayment speed – The prepayment speed is a measure of 

the voluntary unscheduled principal repayments of a 

prepayable obligation in a collateralized pool. Prepayment 

speeds generally decline as borrower delinquencies rise. An 

increase in prepayment speeds, in isolation, would result in 

a decrease in a fair value measurement of assets valued at 

a premium to par and an increase in a fair value 

measurement of assets valued at a discount to par. 
Prepayment speeds may vary from collateral pool to 
collateral pool, and are driven by the type and location of 

the underlying borrower, the remaining tenor of the 

obligation as well as the level and type (e.g., fixed or 

floating) of interest rate being paid by the borrower. 

Typically collateral pools with higher borrower credit quality 

have a higher prepayment rate than those with lower 

borrower credit quality, all other factors being equal. 
Conditional default rate – The conditional default rate is a 
measure of the reduction in the outstanding collateral 

balance underlying a collateralized obligation as a result of 

defaults. While there is typically no direct relationship 

between conditional default rates and prepayment speeds, 

collateralized obligations for which the underlying collateral 

has high prepayment speeds will tend to have lower 

conditional default rates. An increase in conditional default 

rates would generally be accompanied by an increase in loss 

severity and an increase in credit spreads. An increase in 

the conditional default rate, in isolation, would result in a 

decrease in a fair value measurement. Conditional default 

rates reflect the quality of the collateral underlying a 

securitization and the structure of the securitization itself. 

Based on the types of securities owned in the Firm’s market-

making portfolios, conditional default rates are most 

typically at the lower end of the range presented. 
Loss severity – The loss severit
y (the inverse concept is the 
recovery rate) is the expected amount of future realized 
losses resulting from the ultimate liquidation of a particular 

loan, expressed as the net amount of loss relative to the 

outstanding loan balance. An increase in loss severity is 

generally accompanied by an increase in conditional default 

rates. An increase in the loss severity, in isolation, would 

result in a decrease in a fair value measurement. 
The loss severity applied in valuing a mortgage-backed 
security investment depends on factors relating to the 

underlying mortgages, including the loan-to-value ratio, the 

nature of the lender’s lien on the property and other 

instrument-specific factors. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report195Correlation – Correlation is a measure of the relationship 
between the movements of 
two v
ariables (e.g., how the change in one variable influences the change in the other). 

Correlation is a pricing input for a derivative product where 

the payoff is driven by one or more underlying risks. 

Correlation inputs are related to the type 
of derivative (e.g., interest rate, credit, equity and foreign exchange) due to 

the nature of the underlying risks. When parameters are 

positively correlated, an increase in one parameter will 

result in an increase in the other parameter. When 

parameters are negatively correlated, an increase in one 

parameter will result in a decrease in the other parameter. 

An increase in correlation can result in an increase or a 

decrease in a fair value measurement. Given a short 

correlation position, an increase in correlation, in isolation, 

would generally result in a decrease in a fair value 

measurement. The range of correlation inputs between 

risks within the same asset class are generally narrower 

than those between underlying risks across asset classes. In 

addition, the ranges of credit correlation inputs tend to be 

narrower than those affecting other asset classes.
The level of correlation used in the valuation of derivatives 
with multiple underlying risks depends on a number of 

factors including the nature of those risks. For example, the 

correlation between two credit risk exposures would be 

different than that between two interest rate risk 

exposures. Similarly, the tenor of the transaction may also 

impact the correlation input as the relationship between the 

underlying risks may be different over different time 

periods. Furthermore, correlation levels are very much 

dependent on market conditions and could have a relatively 

wide range of levels within or across asset classes over 

time, particularly in volatile market conditions. 
Volatility – Volatility is a measure of the variability in 
possible returns for an instrument, parameter or market 

index given how much the particular instrument, parameter 

or index changes in value over time. Volatility is a pricing 

input for options, including equity options, commodity 

options, and interest rate options. Generally, the higher the 

volatility of the underlying, the riskier the instrument. Given 

a long position in an option, an increase in volatility, in 

isolation, would generally result in an increase in a fair 

value measurement. 
The level of volatility used in the valuation of a particular 
option-based derivative depends on a number of factors, 

including the nature of the risk underlying the option (e.g., 

the volatility of a particular equity security may be 

significantly different from that of a particular commodity 

index), the tenor of the derivative as well as the strike price 

of the option. EBITDA multiple – EBITDA multiples refer to the input (often 

derived from the value of a comparable company) that is 

multiplied by the historic and/or expected earnings before 

interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) of 

a company in order to estimate the company’s value. An 
increase in the EBITDA multiple, in isolation, net of 

adjustments, would result in an increase in a fair value 

measurement.
Changes in level 3 r
ecurring fair value measurements 
The following tables include a rollforward of the 
Consolidated balance sheets amounts (including changes in 

fair value) for financial instruments classified by the Firm 

within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. When a 
determination is made to classify a financial instrument 

within level 3, the determination is based on the 

significance of the unobservable parameters to the overall 

fair value measurement. However, level 3 financial 

instruments typically include, in addition to the 

unobservable or level 3 components, observable 

components (that is, components that are actively quoted 

and can be validated to external sources); accordingly, the 

gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair 

value due in part to observable factors that are part of the 

valuation methodology. Also, the Firm risk-manages the 

observable components of level 3 financial instruments 

using securities and derivative positions that are classified 

within level 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy; as these level 

1 and level 2 risk management instruments are not 

included below, the gains or losses in the following tables 

do not reflect the effect of the Firm’s risk management 

activities related to such level 3 instruments.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
196JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportFair value measurements using significant unobservable inputsYear ended
December 31, 2015
(in millions)Fair valueat January1, 2015Totalrealized/unrealizedgains/(losses)Transfers into 
and/or out of 
level 3
(i)Fair valueat Dec.31, 2015Change inunrealized gains/(losses) relatedto financialinstruments heldat Dec. 31, 2015Purchases
(g)SalesSettlements
(h)Assets:Trading assets:Debt instruments:Mortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies$922$(28)$327$(303)
$(132)$(71)$715$(27)
Residential – nonagency663130
253(611)
(23)
(218)194
4Commercial – nonagency306(14)
246(262)
(22)
(139)115
(5)Total mortgage-backed securities1,89188
826(1,176)
(177)(428)1,024
(28)
Obligations of U.S. states andmunicipalities1,27314
352(133)
(27)
(828)651
(1)Non-U.S. government debtsecurities3029
205(123)
(64)
(255)74
(16)
Corporate debt securities2,989(77)
1,171(1,038)
(125)(2,184)736
2Loans13,287(174)
3,532(4,661)
(3,112)(2,268)6,604(181)
Asset-backed securities1,264(41)
1,920(1,229)
(35)
(47)1,832
(32)
Total debt instruments21,006(181)
8,006(8,360)
(3,540)(6,010)10,921(256)
Equity securities43196
89(193)
(26)
(132)265
82Physical commodities2(2)——
————
Other1,050119
1,581(1,313)
192(885)744
85Total trading assets – debt andequity instruments22,48932
(c)9,676(9,866)
(3,374)(7,027)11,930
(89)
(c)Net derivative receivables:
(a)Interest rate626962513(173)(732)(320)876263
Credit189118
129(136)
16584549
260Foreign exchange(526)657
19(149)
(296)(430)(725)
49
Equity(1,785)731
890(1,262)
(158)70(1,514)
5Commodity(565)(856)
1(24)
512(3)(935)
(41)
Total net derivative receivables(2,061)1,612
(c)1,552(1,744)
(509)(599)(1,749)536
(c)Available-for-sale securities:
Asset-backed securities908(32)
51(43)
(61)
—823
(28)
Other129—
——
(29)
(99)1
—Total available-for-sale securities1,037(32)
(d)51(43)
(90)
(99)824
(28)
(d)Loans2,541(133)
(c)1,290(92)
(1,241)(847)1,518
(32)
(c)Mortgage servicing rights7,436(405)
(e)985(486)
(922)—6,608(405)
(e)Other assets:Private equity investments2,225(120)
(c)281(362)
(187)(180)1,657(304)
(c)All other95991
(f)65(147)
(224)—744
15(f)Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputsYear ended
December 31, 2015
(in millions)Fair valueat January1, 2015Totalrealized/unrealized(gains)/lossesTransfers into 
and/or out of 
level 3
(i)Fair valueat Dec.31, 2015Change inunrealized(gains)/lossesrelated tofinancialinstruments heldat Dec. 31, 2015Purchases
(g)SalesIssuancesSettlements
(h)Liabilities:(b)Deposits$2,859$(39)
(c)$—$—$1,993$(850)$(1,013)$2,950$(29)
(c)Other borrowed funds1,453(697)
(c)——3,334(2,963)
(488)639
(57)
(c)Trading liabilities – debt and equityinstruments7215
(c)(163)160—(17)
(4)63
(4)(c)Accounts payable and other liabilities26————(7)—19—
Beneficial interests issued byconsolidated VIEs1,146(82)
(c)——286(574)
(227)549
(63)
(c)Long-term debt11,877(480)
(c)(58)—9,359(6,299)(2,786)11,613
385(c)JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report197Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputsYear ended
December 31, 2014

(in millions)Fair valueat January1, 2014Totalrealized/unrealizedgains/(losses)Transfers into 
and/or out of 
level 3
(i)Fair value at
Dec. 31, 
2014Change inunrealized gains/(losses) relatedto financialinstruments heldat Dec. 31, 2014Purchases
(g)SalesSettlements
(h)Assets:Trading assets:Debt instruments:Mortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies$1,005$(97)$351$(186)
$(121)$(30)$922$(92)
Residential – nonagency72666
827(761)(41)(154)663
(15)
Commercial – nonagency43217
980(914)(60)(149)306
(12)
Total mortgage-backedsecurities2,163(14)2,158(1,861)
(222)(333)1,891(119)
Obligations of U.S. states andmunicipalities1,38290
298(358)(139)—1,273
(27)
Non-U.S. government debtsecurities14324
719(617)(3)36302
10Corporate debt securities5,920210
5,854(3,372)
(4,531)(1,092)2,989
379Loans13,45538713,551(7,917)
(4,623)(1,566)13,287
123Asset-backed securities1,27219
2,240(2,126)
(283)1421,264
(30)
Total debt instruments24,33571624,820(16,251)
(9,801)(2,813)21,006
336Equity securities867113
248(259)(286)(252)431
46Physical commodities4(1)
——(1)—2
—Other2,000239
1,426(276)(201)(2,138)1,050
329Total trading assets – debt andequity instruments27,2061,067
(c)26,494(16,786)
(10,289)(5,203)22,489
711(c)Net derivative receivables:
(a)Interest rate2,379184
198(256)(1,771)(108)626(853)
Credit95(149)
272(47)
92(74)189(107)
Foreign exchange(1,200)(137)
139(27)
66831(526)
(62)
Equity(1,063)154
2,044(2,863)
10(67)(1,785)583
Commodity115(465)
1(113)(109)6(565)(186)
Total net derivative receivables326(413)
(c)2,654(3,306)
(1,110)(212)(2,061)(625)
(c)Available-for-sale securities:
Asset-backed securities1,088(41)
275(2)(101)(311)908
(40)
Other1,234(19)
122—(223)(985)129
(2)Total available-for-sale securities2,322(60)
(d)397(2)(324)(1,296)1,037
(42)
(d)Loans1,931(254)
(c)3,258(845)(1,549)—2,541(234)
(c)Mortgage servicing rights9,614(1,826)
(e)768(209)(911)—7,436(1,826)
(e)Other assets:Private equity investments5,816400
(c)145(1,967)
(197)(1,972)2,225
33(c)All other1,38283
(f)10(357)(159)—959
59(f)Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputsYear ended
December 31, 2014

(in millions)Fair valueat January1, 2014Totalrealized/unrealized(gains)/lossesTransfers into 
and/or out of 
level 3
(i)Fair value atDec. 31,2014Change inunrealized(gains)/lossesrelated tofinancialinstruments heldat Dec. 31, 2014Purchases
(g)SalesIssuancesSettlements
(h)Liabilities:(b)Deposits$2,255$149
(c)$—$—$1,578$(197)$(926)$2,859$130
(c)Other borrowed funds2,074(596)
(c)——5,377(6,127)7251,453(415)
(c)Trading liabilities – debt and equityinstruments113(5)
(c)(305)323—(5)
(49)72
2(c)Accounts payable and other
liabilities—27
(c)———(
1)—2
6—
Beneficial interests issued byconsolidated VIEs1,240(4)
(c)——775(763)(102)1,146
(22)
(c)Long-term debt10,008(40)
(c)——7,421(5,231)(281)11,877
(9)(c)Notes to consolidated financial statements
198JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportFair value measurements using significant unobservable inputsYear ended
December 31, 2013

(in millions)Fair valueat January1, 2013Totalrealized/unrealizedgains/(losses)Transfers into 
and/or out of 
level 3
(i)Fair value at
Dec. 31, 
2013Change inunrealized gains/(losses) relatedto financialinstruments heldat Dec. 31, 2013Purchases
(g)SalesSettlements
(h)Assets:Trading assets:Debt instruments:Mortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies$498$169$819$(381)
$(100)$
—$1,005$200
Residential – nonagency663407
780(1,028)
(91)
(5)726
205Commercial – nonagency1,207114
841(1,522)
(208)—432
(4)Total mortgage-backedsecurities2,368690
2,440(2,931)
(399)(5)2,163
401Obligations of U.S. states andmunicipalities1,43671
472(251)
(346)—1,382
18Non-U.S. government debtsecurities674
1,449(1,479)
(8)110143
(1)Corporate debt securities5,308103
7,602(5,975)
(1,882)7645,920
466Loans10,78766510,411(7,431)
(685)(292)13,455
315Asset-backed securities3,696191
1,912(2,379)
(292)(1,856)1,272
105Total debt instruments23,6621,72424,286(20,446)
(3,612)(1,279)24,3351,304
Equity securities1,092(37)
328(266)
(135)(115)867
46Physical commodities—(4)
—(8)—164
(4)Other863558
659(95)
(120)1352,0001,074
Total trading assets – debt andequity instruments25,6172,241
(c)25,273(20,815)
(3,867)(1,243)27,2062,420
(c)Net derivative receivables:
(a)Interest rate3,3221,358
344(220)
(2,391)(34)2,379
107Credit1,873(1,697)
115(12)
(357)17395(1,449)
Foreign exchange(1,750)(101)
3(4)683(31)(1,200)(110)
Equity(1,806)2,528
1,305(2,111)
(1,353)374(1,063)872
Commodity254816
105(3)(1,107)50115
410Total net derivative receivables1,8932,904
(c)1,872(2,350)
(4,525)532326(170)
(c)Available-for-sale securities:
Asset-backed securities28,0244
579(57)
(57)(27,405)1,088
4Other89226
508(216)
(6)301,234
25Total available-for-sale securities28,91630
(d)1,087(273)
(63)(27,375)2,322
29(d)Loans2,28281
(c)1,065(191)
(1,306)—1,931
(21)
(c)Mortgage servicing rights7,6141,612
(e)2,215(725)
(1,102)—9,6141,612
(e)Other assets:Private equity investments5,590824
(c)537(1,080)
140(195)5,816
42(c)All other2,122(17)
(f)49(427)
(345)—1,382
(64)
(f)Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputsYear ended
December 31, 2013

(in millions)Fair valueat January1, 2013Totalrealized/unrealized(gains)/lossesTransfers into 
and/or out of 
level 3
(i)Fair value atDec. 31,2013Change inunrealized(gains)/lossesrelated tofinancialinstruments heldat Dec. 31, 2013Purchases
(g)SalesIssuancesSettlements
(h)Liabilities:(b)Deposits$1,983$(82)
(c)$—$—$1,248$(222)$(672)$2,255$(88)
(c)Other borrowed funds1,619(177)
(c)——7,108(6,845)3692,074
291(c)Trading liabilities – debt and equityinstruments205(83)
(c)(2,418)2,594
—(54)(131)113(100)
(c)Accounts payable and other liabilities——
——————
—Beneficial interests issued byconsolidated VIEs925174
(c)——353(212)
—1,240
167(c)Long-term debt8,476(435)
(c)——6,830(4,362)(501)10,008
(85)
(c)Note: Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for certain investments where the Firm measures fair va
lue using the net asset value per share (or its 
equivalent) as a practical expedient and excluded such investments from the fair value hierarchy. The guidance was required to 
be applied retrospectively, and accordingly, prior 
period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. For further information, see page 190.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report199(a) All level 3 derivatives are presented on a net basis, irrespective of underlying counterparty.
(b) Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of total Firm liabilities accounted for at fair value (including liabilities measured a
t fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 13%, 15% and 
18% at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(c) Predominantly reported in principal transactions revenue, except for changes in fair value for CCB mortgage loans, lending-
related commitments originated with the intent to 
sell, and mortgage loan purchase commitments, which are reported in mortgage fees and related income.
(d) Realized gains/(losses) on AFS
 securities, as well as other-than-temporary impairment losses that are recorded in earnings, are reported in securities gains. 
Unrealized gains/
(losses) are reported in OCI. Realized gains/(losses) and foreign exchange remeasurement adjustments recorded in income on AFS 
securities were $(7) million, $(43) million, 
and $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Unrealized gains/(losses) recorded on AFS s
ecurities in OCI were $(25) million, $(16) 
million and $13 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(e) Changes in fair value for CCB MSRs are reported in mortgage fees and related income.

(f) Predominantly reported in other income.

(g) Loan originations are included in purchases.

(h) Includes financial assets and liabilities that have matured, been partially or fully repaid, impacts of modifications, and 
deconsolidations associated with beneficial interests in 
VIEs.(i) All transfers into and/or out of level 3 are assumed to occur at the beginning of the quarterly reporting period in which t
hey occur.
Level 3 analysis

Consolidated balance sheets changes 

Level 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a 

nonrecurring basis) were 1.4% of total Firm assets at 

December 31, 2015. The following describes significant 

changes to level 3 assets since December 31, 2014, for 

those items measured at fair value on a recurring basis. For 

further information on changes impacting items measured 

at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, see Assets and 

liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis on 

pages 200–201.For the year ended December 31, 2015
Level 3 assets were $31.2 billion at December 31, 2015, 

reflecting a decrease of $18.0 billion from December 31, 

2014. This decrease was driven by settlements (including 

repayments and restructurings) and transfers to Level 2 

due to an increase in observability and a decrease in the 

significance of unobservable inputs. In particular:
• $10.6 billion decrease in trading assets — debt and 
equity instruments was driven by a decrease of $6.7 
billion in trading loans due to sales, maturities and 

transfers from level 3 to level 2 as a result of an 

increase in observability of certain valuation inputs and 

a $2.3 billion decrease in corporate debt securities due 

to transfers from level 3 to level 2 as a result of an 

increase in observability of certain valuation inputs
• $4.6 billion decrease in gross derivative receivables was 
driven by a $3.9 billion decrease in equity, interest rate 

and foreign exchange derivative receivables due to 

market movements and transfers from level 3 to level 2 

as a result of an increase in observability of certain 

valuation inputs
Gains and losses 
The following describes significant components of total 

realized/unrealized gains/(losses) for instruments 

measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the years 

ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. For further 

information on these instruments, see Changes in level 3 

recurring fair value measurements rollforward tables on 

pages 195–199.2015• $1.6 billion of net gains in interest rate, foreign 
exchange and equity derivative receivables largely due 

to market movements; partially offset by loss in 

commodity derivatives due to market movements
•  $1.3 billion of net gains in liabilities due to market 
movements
2014
• $1.8 billion of losses on MSRs. For further discussion of 
the change, refer to Note 17
•  $1.1 billion of net gains on trading assets — debt and 
equity instruments, largely driven by market movements 

and client-driven financing transactions
2013
• $2.9 billion of net gains on derivatives, largely driven by 
$2.5 billion of gains on equity derivatives, primarily 

related to client-driven market-making activity and a rise 

in equity markets; and $1.4 billion of gains, 

predominantly on interest rate lock and mortgage loan 

purchase commitments; partially offset by $1.7 billion 

of losses on credit derivatives from the impact of 

tightening reference entity credit spreads
• $2.2 billion of net gains on trading assets — debt and 
equity instruments, largely driven by market making and 

credit spread tightening in nonagency mortgage-backed 

securities and trading loans, and the impact of market 

movements on client-driven financing transactions
• $1.6 billion of net gains on MSRs. For further discussion 
of the change, refer to Note 17
Notes to consolidated financial statements
200JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportCredit and funding adjustmentsWhen determining the fair value of an instrument, it may be 

necessary to record adjustments to the Firm’s estimates of 

fair value in order to reflect counterparty credit quality, the 

Firm’s own creditworthiness, and the impact of funding:
• CVA is taken to reflect the credit quality of a 
counterparty in the valuation of derivatives. Derivatives 
are generally valued using models that use as their basis 

observable market parameters. These market 

parameters may not consider counterparty non-

performance risk. Therefore, an adjustment may be 

necessary to reflect the credit quality of each derivative 

counterparty to arrive at fair value.
The Firm estimates derivatives CVA using a scenario 
analysis to estimate the expected credit exposure across 

all of the Firm’s positions with each counterparty, and 

then estimates losses as a result of a counterparty credit 

event. The key inputs to this methodology are (i) the 

expected positive exposure to each counterparty based 

on a simulation that assumes the current population of 

existing derivatives with each counterparty remains 

unchanged and considers contractual factors designed 

to mitigate the Firm’s credit exposure, such as collateral 

and legal rights of offset; (ii) the probability of a default 

event occurring for each counterparty, as derived from 

observed or estimated CDS spreads; and (iii) estimated 

recovery rates implied by CDS, adjusted to consider the 

differences in recovery rates as a derivative creditor 

relative to those reflected in CDS spreads, which 

generally reflect senior unsecured creditor risk. As such, 

the Firm estimates derivatives CVA relative to the 

relevant benchmark interest rate.
• DVA is taken to reflect the credit quality of the Firm in 

the valuation of liabilities measured at fair value. The 

DVA calculation methodology is generally consistent 

with the CVA methodology described above and 

incorporates JPMorgan Chase’s credit spreads as 

observed through the CDS market to estimate the 

probability of default and loss given default as a result of 

a systemic event affecting the Firm. Structured notes 

DVA is estimated using the current fair value of the 

structured note as the exposure amount, and is 

otherwise consistent with the derivative DVA 

methodology. 
• FVA is taken to incorporate the impact of funding in the 

Firm’s valuation estimates where there is evidence that a 

market participant in the principal market would 

incorporate it in a transfer of the instrument. For 

collateralized derivatives, the fair value is estimated by 

discounting expected future cash flows at the relevant 

overnight indexed swap (“OIS”) rate given the 

underlying collateral agreement with the counterparty. 

For uncollateralized (including partially collateralized) 

over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives and structured 

notes, effective in 2013, the Firm implemented a FVA 

framework to incorporate the impact of funding into its 
valuation estimates. The Firm’s FVA framework 

leverages its existing CVA and DVA calculation 

methodologies, and considers the fact that the Firm’s 

own credit risk is a significant component of funding 

costs. The key inputs to FVA are: (i) the expected funding 

requirements arising from the Firm’s positions with each 

counterparty and collateral arrangements; (ii) for 

assets, the estimated market funding cost in the 

principal market; and (iii) for liabilities, the hypothetical 

market funding cost for a transfer to a market 

participant with a similar credit standing as the Firm.
Upon the implementation of the FVA framework in 2013, 

the Firm recorded a one-time $1.5 billion loss in principal 

transactions revenue that was recorded in the CIB. While the 

FVA framework applies to both assets and liabilities, the 

loss on implementation largely related to uncollateralized 

derivative receivables given that the impact of the Firm’s 

own credit risk, which is a significant component of funding 

costs, was already incorporated in the valuation of liabilities 

through the application of DVA.
The following table provides the impact of credit and 
funding adjustments on principal transactions revenue in 

the respective periods, excluding the effect of any 

associated hedging activities. The DVA and FVA reported 

below include the impact of the Firm’s own credit quality on 

the inception value of liabilities as well as the impact of 

changes in the Firm’s own credit quality over time.
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Credit adjustments:Derivatives CVA$620
$(322)$1,886
Derivatives DVA and FVA
(a)73(58)(1,152)
Structured notes DVA and FVA
(b)754200(760)
(a) Included derivatives DVA of $(6) million, $(1) million and $(115) million 
for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(b) Included structured notes DVA of $171 million, $20 million and $(337) 
million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 
respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report201Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a 
nonrecurring basis 
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, assets measured at fair 

value on a nonrecurring basis were $1.7 billion and $4.5 

billion, respectively, consisting predominantly of loans that 

had fair value adjustments for the years ended December 

31, 2015 and 2014. At December 31, 2015, $696 million 

and $959 million of these assets were classified in levels 2 

and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, respectively. At December 

31, 2014, $1.3 billion and $3.2 billion of these assets were 

classified in levels 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, 

respectively. Liabilities measured at fair value on a 

nonrecurring basis were not significant at December 31, 

2015 and 2014. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 

2014 and 2013, there were no significant transfers 

between levels 1, 2 and 3 related to assets held at the 

balance sheet date.

Of the $959 million in level 3 assets measured at fair value 

on a nonrecurring basis as of December 31, 2015:
• $556 million related to residential real estate loans 
carried at the net realizable value of the underlying 
collateral (i.e., collateral-dependent loans and other 

loans charged off in accordance with regulatory 

guidance). These amounts are classified as level 3, as 

they are valued using a broker’s price opinion and 

discounted based upon the Firm’s experience with actual 

liquidation values. These discounts to the broker price 

opinions ranged from 4% to 59%, with a weighted 

average of 22%.
The total change in the recorded value of assets and 

liabilities for which a fair value adjustment has been 

included in the Consolidated statements of income for the 

years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, related 

to financial instruments held at those dates, were losses of 

$294 million, $992 million and $789 million, respectively; 

these reductions were predominantly associated with loans. 
For further information about the measurement of impaired 
collateral-dependent loans, and other loans where the 

carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying 

collateral (e.g., residential mortgage loans charged off in 
accordance with regulatory guidance), see Note 14.
Additional disclosures about the fair value of financial 

instruments that are not carried on the Consolidated 

balance sheets at fair value 

U.S. GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of 

certain financial instruments, and the methods and 

significant assumptions used to estimate their fair value. 

Financial instruments within the scope of these disclosure 

requirements are included in the following table. However, 

certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial 

instruments are excluded from the scope of these disclosure 

requirements. Accordingly, the fair value disclosures 

provided in the following table include only a partial 

estimate of the fair value of JPMorgan Chase’s assets and 

liabilities. For example, the Firm has developed long-term 

relationships with its customers through its deposit base 

and credit card accounts, commonly referred to as core 

deposit intangibles and credit card relationships. In the 

opinion of management, these items, in the aggregate, add 

significant value to JPMorgan Chase, but their fair value is 

not disclosed in this Note.
Financial instruments for which carrying value approximates 
fair value 
Certain financial instruments that are not carried at fair 

value on the Consolidated balance sheets are carried at 

amounts that approximate fair value, due to their short-

term nature and generally negligible credit risk. These 

instruments include cash and due from banks, deposits with 

banks, federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale 

agreements and securities borrowed, short-term 

receivables and accrued inter
est receivable, commercial 
paper, federal funds purchased, securities loaned and sold 

under repurchase agreements, other borrowed funds, 

accounts payable, and accrued liabilities. In addition, U.S. 

GAAP requires that the fair value of deposit liabilities with 

no stated maturity (i.e., demand, savings and certain money 

market deposits) be equal to their carrying value; 

recognition of the inherent funding value of these 

instruments is not permitted. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
202JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table presents by fair value hierarchy classification the carrying values and estimated fair values at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, of financial assets and liabilities, excluding financial instruments which are carried at fair valu
e on a recurring basis. For additional information regarding the financial instruments within the scope of this disclosure, and t
he methods and significant assumptions used to estimate their fair value, see pages 185–188 of this Note.
December 31, 2015December 31, 2014Estimated fair value hierarchyEstimated fair value hierarchy
(in billions)Carrying 
valueLevel 1Level 2Level 3
Total 
estimated fair value
Carrying 
valueLevel 1Level 2Level 3
Total 
estimated fair value
Financial assetsCash and due from banks$20.5$20.5$—$—$20.5
$27.8$27.8$—$—$27.8
Deposits with banks340.0335.94.1—340.0
484.5480.44.1—484.5
Accrued interest and accountsreceivable46.6—46.40.246.6
70.1—70.00.170.1
Federal funds sold andsecurities purchased underresale agreements189.5—189.5—189.5
187.2—187.2—187.2
Securities borrowed98.3—98.3—98.3
109.4—109.4—109.4
Securities, held-to-maturity
(a)49.1—50.6—50.6
49.3—51.2—51.2
Loans, net of allowance for 
loan losses(b)820.8—25.4802.7828.1
740.5—21.8723.1744.9
Other66.00.156.314.370.7
64.7—55.713.369.0
Financial liabilitiesDeposits$1,267.2$—$1,266.1$1.2$1,267.3
$1,354.6$—$1,353.6$1.2$1,354.8
Federal funds purchased andsecurities loaned or soldunder repurchase agreements149.2—149.2—149.2
189.1—189.1—189.1
Commercial paper15.6—15.6—15.6
66.3—66.3—66.3
Other borrowed funds11.2—11.2—11.2
15.515.5—15.5
Accounts payable and other 
liabilities(c)
144.6—141.72.8144.5
172.6—169.62.9172.5
Beneficial interests issued by 
consolidated VIEs(d)41.1—40.20.941.1
50.2—48.22.050.2
Long-term debt and junior 
subordinated deferrable 

interest debentures
(e)
255.6—257.44.3261.7
246.2—251.23.8255.0
(a) Carrying value reflects unamortized discount or premium.
(b) Fair value is typically estimated using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates the characteristics of the underlying loans (including principal, 
contractual interest rate and contractual fees) and other key inputs, including expected lifetime credit losses, interest rates
, prepayment rates, and 
primary origination or secondary market spreads. For certain loans, the fair value is measured based on the value of the underl
ying collateral. The 
difference between the estimated fair value and carrying value of a financial asset or liability is the result of the different methodologies used to 

determine fair value as compared with carrying value. For example, credit losses are estimated for a financial asset’s remaining life in a fair value 

calculation but are estimated for a loss emergence period in the allowance for loan loss calculation; future loan income (inter
est and fees) is 
incorporated in a fair value calculation but is generally not considered in the allowance for loan losses. For a further discus
sion of the Firm’s 
methodologies for estimating the fair value of loans and lending-related commitments, see Valuation hierarchy on pages 185–188.
(c) Certain prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current presentation.

(d) Carrying value reflects unamortized issuance costs.

(e) Carrying value reflects unamortized premiums and discounts, issuance costs, and other valuation adjustments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report203The majority of the Firm’s lending-related commitments are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated 
balance sheets, nor are they actively traded. The carrying value of the allowance and the estimated fair value of the Firm’s 

wholesale lending-related commitments were as follows for the periods indicated.
December 31, 2015December 31, 2014Estimated fair value hierarchyEstimated fair value hierarchy
(in billions)Carrying 
value
(a)Level 1Level 2Level 3
Totalestimatedfair valueCarrying 
value
(a)Level 1Level 2Level 3
Totalestimatedfair valueWholesale lending-related commitments$0.8$—$—$3.0$3.0
$0.6$—$—$1.6$1.6
(a) Excludes the current carrying values of the guarantee liability and the offsetting asset, each of which are recognized at f
air value at the inception of 
guarantees.
The Firm does not estimate the fair value of consumer lending-related commitments. In many cases, the Firm can reduce or 

cancel these commitments by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice. For a further 

discussion of the valuation of lending-related commitments, see page 186 of this Note. 
Note 4 – Fair value option
The fair value option provides an option to elect fair value 

as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, 
financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and 
written loan commitments.
The Firm has elected to measure certain instruments at fair 
value in order to: 
• Mitigate income statement volatility caused by the 
differences in the measurement basis of elected 
instruments (e.g. certain instruments elected were 
previously accounted f
or on an accrual basis) while the associated risk management arrangements are 

accounted for on a fair value basis; 
• Eliminate the complexities of applying certain 
accounting models (e.g., hedge accounting or bifurcation accounting for hybrid instruments); and/or 
• Better reflect those instruments that are managed on a 
fair value basis. 
The Firm’s election of fair value includes the following 
instruments: • Loans purchased or originated as part of securitization 
warehousing activity, subject to bifurcation accounting, 
or managed on a fair value basis. 
• Certain securities financing arrangements with an 
embedded derivative and/or a maturity of greater than 

one year. 
• Owned beneficial interests in securitized financial assets 
that contain embedded credit derivatives, which would 

otherwise be required to be separately accounted for as 
a derivative instrument. 
• Certain investments that receive tax credits and other 
equity investments acquired as part of the Washington 
Mutual transaction. 
• Structured notes issued as part of CIB’s client-driven 
activities. (Structured notes are predominantly financial 

instruments that contain embedded derivatives.) 
• Certain long-term beneficial interests issued by CIB’s 
consolidated securitization trusts where the underlying 
assets are carried at fair value. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
204JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportChanges in fair value under the fair value option election 
The following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated statements of income for the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, for items for which the fair value option was elected. The profit and loss information 

presented below only includes the financial instruments that were elected to be measured at fair value; related risk 

management instruments, which are required to be measured at fair value, are not included in the table. 
201520142013
December 31, (in millions)PrincipaltransactionsAll otherincomeTotalchangesin fairvaluerecordedPrincipaltransactionsAll otherincomeTotalchangesin fairvaluerecordedPrincipaltransactionsAll otherincomeTotalchangesin fairvaluerecordedFederal funds sold and securitiespurchased under resaleagreements$(38)$—$(38)
$(15)$—$(15)$(454)$—$(454)
Securities borrowed(6)—(6)
(10)—(10)10—10
Trading assets:Debt and equity instruments,excluding loans756(10)
(d)746639—6395827
(c)589Loans reported as tradingassets:Changes in instrument-specific credit risk13841
(c)17988529
(c)9141,16123
(c)1,184Other changes in fair value232818
(c)1,0503521,353
(c)1,705(133)1,833
(c)1,700Loans:Changes in instrument-specificcredit risk35—35
40—4036—36
Other changes in fair value4—4
34—3417—17
Other assets79(1)
(d)78246
(d)303286
(d)118Deposits(a)93—
93(287)—(287)260—260
Federal funds purchased andsecurities loaned or sold under
repurchase agreements8—8
(33)—
(33)73—
73Other borrowed funds
(a) 1,996—1,996
(891)—(891)(399)—(399)
Trading liabilities(20)—(20)
(17)—(17)(46)—(46)
Beneficial interests issued byconsolidated VIEs49—49
(233)—(233)(278)—(278)
Other liabilities———
(27)—(27)———
Long-term debt:Changes in instrument-specific 
credit risk
(a) 300—300
101—101(271)—(271)
Other changes in fair value
(b)1,088—1,088
(615)—(615)1,280—1,280
(a) Total changes in instrument-specific credit risk (DVA) related to structured notes were $171 million
, $20 million and $(337) million for the years ended 
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These totals include such changes for structured notes classified within deposi
ts and other borrowed funds, as 
well as long-term debt.
(b) Structured notes are predominantly financial instruments containing embedded derivatives. Where present, the embedded deriv
ative is the primary driver of risk. 
Although the risk associated with the structured notes is actively managed, the gains/(losses) reported in this table do not in
clude the income statement impact of the risk management instruments used to manage such risk.
(c) Reported in mortgage fees and related income.

(d) Reported in other income.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report205Determination of instrument-specific credit risk for items 
for which a fair value election was made 

The following describes how the gains and losses included in 

earnings that are attributable to changes in instrument-

specific credit risk, were determined. 
• Loans and lending-related commitments: For floating-
rate instruments, all changes in value are attributed to 
instrument-specific credit risk. For fixed-rate 

instruments, an allocation of the changes in value for the 

period is made between those changes in value that are 

interest rate-related and changes in value that are 

credit-related. Allocations are generally based on an 

analysis of borrower-specific credit spread and recovery 

information, where available, or benchmarking to similar 

entities or industries. • Long-term debt: Changes in value attributable to 
instrument-specific credit risk were derived principally 

from observable changes in the Firm’s credit spread. 
• Resale and repurchase agreements, securities borrowed 
agreements and securities lending agreements: 

Generally, for these types of agreements, there is a 

requirement that collateral be maintained with a market 

value equal to or in excess of the principal amount 

loaned; as a result, there would be no adjustment or an 

immaterial adjustment for instrument-specific credit risk 

related to these agreements. 
Difference between aggregate fair value and 
aggregate remaining co
ntractual principal balance outstanding 
The following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregate remaining contractual principal 

balance outstanding as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, for loans, long-term debt and long-term beneficial interests for 

which the fair value option has been elected. 
20152014December 31, (in millions)ContractualprincipaloutstandingFair value
Fair valueover/(under)contractualprincipaloutstandingContractualprincipaloutstandingFair value
Fair valueover/(under)contractualprincipaloutstandingLoans
(a)Nonaccrual loans
Loans reported as trading assets$3,484$631$(2,853)
$3,847$905$(2,942)
Loans77—
77—
Subtotal3,491638(2,853)
3,854912(2,942)
All other performing loansLoans reported as trading assets30,78028,184(2,596)
37,60835,462(2,146)
Loans2,7712,752(19)
2,3972,389(8)
Total loans$37,042$31,574$(5,468)
$43,859$38,763$(5,096)
Long-term debt
Principal-protected debt
$17,910
(c)$16,611$(1,299)
$14,660
(c)$15,484$824
Nonprincipal-protected debt
(b)NA16,454NA
NA14,742NA
Total long-term debtNA$33,065NA
NA$30,226NA
Long-term beneficial interests

Nonprincipal-protected debt
NA$787NA
NA$2,162NA
Total long-term beneficial interestsNA$787NA
NA$2,162NA
(a) There were no performing loans that were ninety days or more past due as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
(b) Remaining contractual principal is not applicable to nonprincipal-protected notes. Unlike principal-protected structured notes, for which the Firm is 
obligated to return a stated amount of principal at the maturity of the note, nonprincipal-protected structured notes do not obligate the Firm to return a 

stated amount of principal at maturity, but to return an amount based on the performance of an underlying variable or derivativ
e feature embedded in the 
note. However, investors are exposed to the credit risk of the Firm as issuer for both nonprincipal-protected and principal pro
tected notes.(c) Where the Firm issues principal-protected zero-coupon or discount notes, the balance reflects the contractual principal pay
ment at maturity or, if 
applicable, the contractual principal payment at the Firm’s next call date.
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the contractual amount of letters of credit for which the fair value option was elected was 

$4.6 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively, with a corresponding fair value of $(94) million and $(147) million, respectively. For 

further information regarding off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, see Note 29.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
206JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportStructured note products by balance sheet classification and risk component
The table below presents the fair value of the structured notes issued by the Firm, by balance sheet classification and the 

primary risk to which the structured notes’ embedded derivative relates.
December 31, 2015December 31, 2014(in millions)Long-termdebtOtherborrowedfundsDepositsTotal
Long-termdebtOtherborrowedfundsDepositsTotal
Risk exposure
Interest rate$12,531$58$3,340$15,929
$10,858$460$2,119$13,437
Credit3,195547—3,742
4,023450—4,473
Foreign exchange1,76577111,853
2,150211172,378
Equity14,2938,4474,99327,733
12,34812,4124,41529,175
Commodity640501,9812,671
7106442,0123,366
Total structured notes$32,424$9,179$10,325$51,928
$30,089$14,177$8,563$52,829
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report207Note 5 – Credit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of 
customers are engaged in similar business activities or 

activities in the same geographic region, or when they have 

similar economic features that would cause their ability to 

meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by 

changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of its 
credit portfolios to assess potential credit risk 

concentrations and to obtain collateral when deemed 

necessary. Senior management is significantly involved in 

the credit approval and review process, and risk levels are adjusted as needed to reflect the Firm’s risk appetite.
In the Firm’s consumer portfolio, concentrations are 
evaluated primarily by product and by U.S. geographic 

region, with a key focus on trends and concentrations at the 

portfolio level, where poten
tial credit risk concentrations 
can be remedied through changes in underwriting policies 
and portfolio guidelines. In the wholesale portfolio, credit 

risk concentrations are evaluated primarily by industry and 

monitored regularly on both an aggregate portfolio level 

and on an individual customer basis. The Firm’s wholesale 

exposure is managed through loan syndications and 

participations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives, 

master netting agreements, and collateral and other risk-

reduction techniques. For additional information on loans, 

see Note 14.The Firm does not believe that its exposure to any 
particular loan product (e.g., option adjustable rate 

mortgages (“ARMs”)), or industry segment (e.g., 

commercial real estate), or its exposure to residential real 

estate loans with high loan-to-value ratios, results in a 

significant concentration of credit risk. Terms of loan 

products and collateral coverage are included in the Firm’s 

assessment when extending credit and establishing its 

allowance for loan losses. 
The table below presents both on–balance sheet and off–balance sheet consumer and wholesale-related credit exposure by the 
Firm’s three credit portfolio segments as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. 
20152014CreditexposureOn-balance sheetOff-balance 
sheet(f)
CreditexposureOn-balance sheetOff-balance 
sheet(f)(g)
December 31, (in millions)LoansDerivatives
LoansDerivatives
Total consumer, excluding credit card
 $403,424$344,821$—$58,478
$353,635$295,374$—$58,153
Total credit card646,981131,463
—515,518
657,011131,048
—525,963
Total consumer1,050,405476,284
—573,996
1,010,646426,422
—584,116
Wholesale-related
(a)Real Estate
116,85792,82031223,725
105,97579,11332726,535
Consumer & Retail
85,46027,1751,57356,712
83,66325,0941,84556,724
Technology, Media & Telecommunications
57,38211,0791,03245,271
46,65511,3622,19033,103
Industrials54,38616,7911,42836,167
47,85916,0401,30330,516
Healthcare
46,05316,9652,75126,337
56,51613,7944,54238,180
Banks & Finance Cos
43,39820,40110,21812,779
55,09823,36715,70616,025
Oil & Gas42,07713,3431,90226,832
43,14815,6161,83625,696
Utilities30,8535,2941,68923,870
27,4414,8442,27220,325
State & Municipal Govt
29,1149,6263,28716,201
31,0687,5934,00219,473
Asset Managers
23,8156,7037,7339,379
27,4888,0439,38610,059
Transportation
19,2279,1571,5758,495
20,61910,3812,2477,991
Central Govt
17,9682,00013,2402,728
19,8811,10315,5273,251
Chemicals & Plastics
15,2324,03336910,830
12,6123,0874109,115
Metals & Mining
14,0494,6226078,820
14,9695,6285898,752
Automotive
13,8644,4731,3508,041
12,7543,7797668,209
Insurance
11,8891,0941,9928,803
13,3501,1753,4748,701
Financial Markets Infrastructure
7,9737242,6024,647
11,9869286,7894,269
Securities Firms
4,4128611,4242,127
4,8011,0251,3512,425
All other(b)149,117109,8894,59334,635
134,47592,5304,41337,532
Subtotal783,126357,05059,677366,399
770,358324,50278,975366,881
Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value3,9653,965
——6,4126,412
——Receivables from customers and other
(c)
13,372———28,972———Total wholesale-related800,463361,01559,677366,399
805,742330,91478,975366,881
Total exposure
(d)(e)$1,850,868$837,299$59,677$940,395
$1,816,388$757,336$78,975$950,997
(a) Effective in the fourth quarter 2015, the Firm realigned its wholesale industry divisions in order to better monitor and ma
nage industry concentrations. Prior period amounts have 
been revised to conform with current period presentation. For additional information, see Wholesale credit portfolio on pages 1
22–129.(b) All other includes: individuals; SPEs; holding companies; and private education and civic organizations. For more informati
on on exposures to SPEs, see Note 16.
(c) Primarily consists of margin loans to prime brokerage customers that are generally over-collateralized through a pledge of 
assets maintained in clients’ brokerage accounts and 
are subject to daily minimum collateral requirements. As a result of the Firm’s credit risk mitigation practices, the Firm did 
not hold any reserves for credit impairment on these 

receivables.
(d) For further information regarding on–balance sheet credit conc
entrations by major product and/or geography, see Note 6 and 
Note 14. For information regarding concentrations 
of off–balance sheet lending-related financial instruments by major product, see Note 29.
(e) Excludes cash placed with banks of $351.0 billion and $501.5 billion, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, placed w
ith various central banks, predominantly Federal 
Reserve Banks.
(f) Represents lending-related financial instruments.

(g) Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm no longer includes within its disclosure of wholesale lending-related commitments the u
nused amount of advised uncommitted lines of credit 
as it is within the Firm’s discretion whether or not to make a loan under these lines, and the Firm’s approval is generally req
uired prior to funding. Prior period amounts have been 
revised to conform with the current period presentation.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
208JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 6 – Derivative instruments 
Derivative instruments enable end-users to modify or 
mitigate exposure to credit or market risks. Counterparties 

to a derivative contract seek to obtain risks and rewards 

similar to those that could be obtained from purchasing or 

selling a related cash instrument without having to 

exchange upfront the full purchase or sales price. JPMorgan 

Chase makes markets in derivatives for clients and also uses 

derivatives to hedge or manage its own risk exposures. 

Predominantly all of the Firm’s derivatives are entered into 

for market-making or risk management purposes. 
Market-making derivatives 
The majority of the Firm’s derivatives are entered into for 

market-making purposes. Clients use derivatives to mitigate 

or modify interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity and 

commodity risks. The Firm actively manages the risks from 

its exposure to these derivatives by entering into other 

derivative transactions or by purchasing or selling other 

financial instruments that partially or fully offset the 

exposure from client derivatives. The Firm also seeks to 

earn a spread between the client derivatives and offsetting 

positions, and from the remaining open risk positions. 
Risk management derivatives 
The Firm manages its market risk exposures using various 

derivative instruments. 
Interest rate contracts are used to minimize fluctuations in 
earnings that are caused by changes in interest rates. Fixed-

rate assets and liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market 

value as interest rates change. Similarly, interest income 

and expense increases or decreases as a result of variable-

rate assets and liabilities resetting to current market rates, 

and as a result of the repayment and subsequent 

origination or issuance of fixed-rate assets and liabilities at 

current market rates. Gains or losses on the derivative 

instruments that are related to such assets and liabilities 

are expected to substantially offset this variability in 

earnings. The Firm generally uses interest rate swaps, 

forwards and futures to manage the impact of interest rate 

fluctuations on earnings. 
Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage the 
foreign exchange risk associated with certain foreign 

currency–denominated (i.e., non-U.S. dollar) assets and 

liabilities and forecasted transactions, as well as the Firm’s 

net investments in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries or branches 

whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. As a 

result of fluctuations in foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar–

equivalent values of the foreign currency–denominated 

assets and liabilities or the forecasted revenues or expenses 

increase or decrease. Gains or losses on the derivative 

instruments related to these foreign currency–denominated 

assets or liabilities, or forecasted transactions, are expected 

to substantially offset this variability. 
Commodities contracts are used to manage the price risk of 

certain commodities inventories. Gains or losses on these 

derivative instruments are expected to substantially offset 

the depreciation or appreciation of the related inventory. 
Credit derivatives are used to manage the counterparty 
credit risk associated with loans and lending-related 

commitments. Credit derivatives compensate the purchaser 

when the entity referenced in the contract experiences a 

credit event, such as bankruptcy or a failure to pay an 

obligation when due. Credit derivatives primarily consist of 

credit default swaps. For a further discussion of credit 

derivatives, see the discussion in the Credit derivatives 

section on pages 218–220 of this Note. 
For more information about risk management derivatives, 
see the risk management derivatives gains and losses table 

on page 218 of this Note, and the hedge accounting gains 

and losses tables on pages 216–218 of this Note. 
Derivative counterparties and settlement types 
The Firm enters into OTC derivatives, which are negotiated 

and settled bilaterally with the derivative counterparty. The 

Firm also enters into, as principal, certain exchange-traded 

derivatives (“ETD”) such as futures and options, and 

“cleared” over-the-counter (“OTC-cleared”) derivative 

contracts with central counterparties (“CCPs”). ETD 

contracts are generally standardized contracts traded on an 

exchange and cleared by the CCP, which is the counterparty 

from the inception of the transactions. OTC-cleared 

derivatives are traded on a bilateral basis and then novated 

to the CCP for clearing. 
Derivative Clearing Services 
The Firm provides clearing services for clients where the 

Firm acts as a clearing member with respect to certain 

derivative exchanges and clearing houses. The Firm does 

not reflect the clients’ derivative contracts in its 

Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information 

on the Firm’s clearing services, see Note 29.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report209Accounting for derivatives 
All free-standing derivatives that the Firm executes for its 

own account are required to be recorded on the 

Consolidated balance sheets at fair value. 
As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm nets derivative 
assets and liabilities, and the related cash collateral 

receivables and payables, when a legally enforceable 

master netting agreement exists between the Firm and the 

derivative counterparty. For further discussion of the 

offsetting of assets and liabilities, see Note 1. The 

accounting for changes in value of a derivative depends on 

whether or not the transaction has been designated and 

qualifies for hedge accounting. Derivatives that are not 

designated as hedges are reported and measured at fair 

value through earnings. The tabular disclosures on pages 

212–218 of this Note provide additional information on the 

amount of, and reporting for, derivative assets, liabilities, 

gains and losses. For further discussion of derivatives 

embedded in structured notes, see Notes 3 and 4. 
Derivatives designated as hedges 
The Firm applies hedge accounting to certain derivatives 

executed for risk management purposes – generally interest 

rate, foreign exchange and commodity derivatives. 

However, JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge 

accounting to all of the derivatives involved in the Firm’s 

risk management activities. For example, the Firm does not 

apply hedge accounting to purchased credit default swaps 

used to manage the credit risk of loans and lending-related 

commitments, because of the difficulties in qualifying such 

contracts as hedges. For the same reason, the Firm does not 

apply hedge accounting to certain interest rate, foreign 

exchange, and commodity derivatives used for risk 

management purposes. To qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be highly 
effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure 

being hedged. In addition, for a derivative to be designated 

as a hedge, the risk management objective and strategy 

must be documented. Hedge documentation must identify 

the derivative hedging instrument, the asset or liability or 

forecasted transaction and type of risk to be hedged, and 

how the effectiveness of the derivative is assessed 

prospectively and retrospectively. To assess effectiveness, 

the Firm uses statistical methods such as regression 

analysis, as well as nonstatistical methods including dollar-

value comparisons of the change in the fair value of the 

derivative to the change in the fair value or cash flows of 

the hedged item. The extent to which a derivative has been, 

and is expected to continue to be, effective at offsetting 

changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item 

must be assessed and documented at least quarterly. Any 

hedge ineffectiveness (i.e., the amount by which the gain or 

loss on the designated derivative instrument does not 

exactly offset the change in the hedged item attributable to 

the hedged risk) must be reported in current-period 

earnings. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly 

effective at hedging the designated exposure, hedge 

accounting is discontinued. 
There are three types of hedge accounting designations: fair 

value hedges, cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. 

JPMorgan Chase uses fair value hedges primarily to hedge 

fixed-rate long-term debt, AFS securities and certain 

commodities inventories. For qualifying fair value hedges, 

the changes in the fair value of the derivative, and in the 

value of the hedged item for the risk being hedged, are 

recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is 

terminated, then the adjustment to the hedged item 
continues to be reported as part of the basis of the hedged 

item, and for benchmark interest rate hedges is amortized 

to earnings as a yield adjustment. Derivative amounts 

affecting earnings are recognized consistent with the 

classification of the hedged item – primarily net interest 

income and principal transactions revenue. 
JPMorgan Chase uses cash flow hedges primarily to hedge 
the exposure to variability in forecasted cash flows from 

floating-rate assets and liabilities and foreign currency–

denominated revenue and expense. For qualifying cash flow 

hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value 

of the derivative is recorded in OCI and recognized in the 

Consolidated statements of income when the hedged cash 

flows affect earnings. Derivative amounts affecting earnings 

are recognized consistent with the classification of the 

hedged item – primarily interest income, interest expense, 

noninterest revenue and compensation expense. The 

ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are immediately 

recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is 

terminated, then the value of the derivative recorded in 

accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (“AOCI”) is 

recognized in earnings when the cash flows that were 

hedged affect earnings. For hedge relationships that are 

discontinued because a forecasted transaction is not 

expected to occur according to the original hedge forecast, 

any related derivative values recorded in AOCI are 

immediately recognized in earnings. 
JPMorgan Chase uses foreign currency hedges to protect 
the value of the Firm’s net investments in certain non-U.S. 

subsidiaries or branches whose functional currencies are 

not the U.S. dollar. For foreign currency qualifying net 

investment hedges, changes in the fair value of the 

derivatives are recorded in the translation adjustments 

account within AOCI. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
210JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table outlines the Firm’s primary uses of derivatives and the related hedge accounting designation or disclosure 
category.
Type of DerivativeUse of DerivativeDesignation and disclosureAffectedsegment or unitPagereferenceManage specifically identified risk exposures in qualifying hedge accounting relationships:Hedge fixed rate assets and liabilitiesFair value hedgeCorporate216
Hedge floating-rate assets and liabilitiesCash flow hedgeCorporate217
 Foreign exchange 
Hedge foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilitiesFair value hedgeCorporate216
 Foreign exchange 
Hedge forecasted revenue and expenseCash flow hedgeCorporate217
 Foreign exchange 
Hedge the value of the Firm’s investments in non-U.S. subsidiariesNet investment hedgeCorporate218
 Commodity 
Hedge commodity inventoryFair value hedgeCIB216
Manage specifically identified risk exposures not designated in qualifying hedge accountingrelationships: Interest rate
Manage the risk of the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans and MSRsSpecified risk managementCCB218
 Credit
Manage the credit risk of wholesale lending exposuresSpecified risk managementCIB218
 Commodity
Manage the risk of certain commodities-related contracts andinvestmentsSpecified risk managementCIB218
 Interest rate and
foreign exchange
Manage the risk of certain other specified assets and liabilitiesSpecified risk managementCorporate218
Market-making derivatives and other activities:• VariousMarket-making and related risk managementMarket-making and otherCIB218
• VariousOther derivativesMarket-making and otherCIB, Corporate218
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report211Notional amount of derivative contracts 
The following table summarizes the notional amount of 

derivative contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2015 

and 2014.Notional amounts
(b)December 31, (in billions)20152014Interest rate contractsSwaps$24,162
$29,734
Futures and forwards5,16710,189Written options3,5063,903Purchased options3,8964,259Total interest rate contracts36,731
48,085Credit derivatives
(a)2,9004,249Foreign exchange contracts Cross-currency swaps3,1993,346Spot, futures and forwards5,0284,669Written options690790Purchased options706780Total foreign exchange contracts9,623
9,585Equity contractsSwaps232206Futures and forwards4350Written options395432Purchased options326375Total equity contracts996
1,063Commodity contracts Swaps83126Spot, futures and forwards99193Written options115181Purchased options112180Total commodity contracts409
680Total derivative notional amounts$50,659
$63,662
(a)  For more information on volumes and types of credit derivative 
contracts, see the Credit derivatives discussion on pages 218–220 of 

this Note.
(b)  Represents the sum of gross long and gross short third-party notional 
derivative contracts.
While the notional amounts disclosed above give an 

indication of the volume of the Firm’s derivatives activity, 

the notional amounts significantly exceed, in the Firm’s 

view, the possible losses that could arise from such 

transactions. For most derivative transactions, the notional 

amount is not exchanged; it is used simply as a reference to 

calculate payments. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
212JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportImpact of derivatives on the Consolidated balance sheets 
The following table summarizes information on derivative receivables and payables (before and after netting adjustments) that 

are reflected on the F
irm’s Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 
2015 and 2014, by ac
counting 
designation (e.g., whether the derivatives were designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships or not) and contract type. 
Free-standing derivative receivables and payables
(a)Gross derivative receivablesGross derivative payablesDecember 31, 2015(in millions)Notdesignatedas hedgesDesignatedas hedgesTotalderivativereceivablesNet derivative 
receivables
(b)Notdesignatedas hedgesDesignatedas hedgesTotalderivativepayablesNet derivative 
payables
(b)Trading assets and liabilitiesInterest rate$665,531$4,080$669,611$26,363$632,928$2,238$635,166$10,221
Credit51,468—51,4681,42350,529—50,5291,541
Foreign exchange179,072803179,87517,177189,3971,503190,90019,769
Equity35,859—35,8595,52938,663—38,6639,183
Commodity23,7131,35225,0659,18527,653127,65412,076
Total fair value of tradingassets and liabilities$955,643$6,235$961,878$59,677$939,170$3,742$942,912$52,790
Gross derivative receivablesGross derivative payables
December 31, 2014
(in millions)Notdesignatedas hedgesDesignatedas hedgesTotalderivativereceivablesNet derivative 
receivables
(b)Notdesignatedas hedgesDesignatedas hedgesTotalderivativepayablesNet derivative 
payables
(b)Trading assets and liabilitiesInterest rate$944,885
(c)$5,372$950,257
(c)$33,725$915,368
(c)$3,011$918,379
(c)$17,745
Credit76,842—76,8421,83875,895—75,8951,593

Foreign exchange211,537
(c)3,650215,187
(c)21,253223,988
(c)626224,614
(c)22,970Equity42,489
(c)—42,489
(c)8,17746,262
(c)—46,262
(c)11,740Commodity43,15150243,65313,98245,45516845,62317,068

Total fair value of tradingassets and liabilities$1,318,904
(c)$9,524$1,328,428
(c)$78,975$1,306,968
(c)$3,805$1,310,773
(c)$71,116
(a) Balances exclude structured notes for which the fair value option has been elected. See Note 4 for further information.
(b) As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related ca
sh collateral receivables and 
payables when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists.
(c) The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. These revisions had no impact o
n Firm’s Consolidated 
balance sheets or its results of operations.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report213The following table presents, as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the gross and net derivative receivables by contract and 
settlement type. Derivative receivables have been netted on the Consolidated balance sheets against derivative payables and 

cash collateral payables to the same counterparty with respect to derivative contracts for which the Firm has obtained an 

appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement. Where such a legal opinion has not been either sought 

or obtained, the receivables are not eligible under U.S. GAAP for netting on the Consolidated balance sheets, and are shown 

separately in the table below. 
20152014December 31, (in millions)GrossderivativereceivablesAmounts nettedon theConsolidatedbalance sheetsNetderivativereceivablesGrossderivativereceivablesAmounts nettedon theConsolidatedbalance sheetsNetderivativereceivablesU.S. GAAP nettable derivative receivablesInterest rate contracts:OTC$417,386$(396,506)$20,880
$542,107
(c)$(514,914)
(c)$27,193
OTC–cleared246,750(246,742)8
401,656(401,618)38
Exchange-traded
(a)———
———
Total interest rate contracts664,136(643,248)20,888
943,763(c)(916,532)(c)27,231Credit contracts:OTC44,082(43,182)900
66,636(65,720)916
OTC–cleared6,866(6,863)3
9,320(9,284)36
Total credit contracts50,948(50,045)903
75,956(75,004)952
Foreign exchange contracts:OTC175,060(162,377)12,683
208,803(c)(193,900)(c)14,903OTC–cleared323(321)2
36(34)2
Exchange-traded
(a)———
———
Total foreign exchange contracts175,383(162,698)12,685
208,839(c)(193,934)(c)14,905Equity contracts:OTC20,690(20,439)251
23,258(22,826)432
OTC–cleared———
———
Exchange-traded
(a)12,285(9,891)2,394
13,840(c)(11,486)(c)2,354Total equity contracts32,975(30,330)2,645
37,098(c)(34,312)(c)2,786Commodity contracts:OTC15,001(6,772)8,229
22,555(14,327)8,228
OTC–cleared———
———
Exchange-traded
(a)9,199(9,108)
9119,500(15,344)
4,156Total commodity contracts24,200(15,880)8,320
42,055(29,671)12,384
Derivative receivables with appropriate legal opinion$947,642$(902,201)
(b)$45,441
$1,307,711
(c)$(1,249,453)
(b)(c)$58,258
Derivative receivables where an appropriate legalopinion has not been either sought or obtained14,23614,236
20,71720,717
Total derivative receivables recognized on theConsolidated balance sheets$961,878$59,677
$1,328,428
(c)$78,975
(a) Exchange-traded derivative amounts that relate to futures contracts are settled daily.

(b) Included cash collateral netted of $73.7 billion and $74.0 billion at December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively.

(c) The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. These revisions had no impact o
n Firm’s Consolidated 
balance sheets or its results of operations.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
214JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table presents, as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the gross and net derivative payables by contract and 
settlement type. Derivative payables have been netted on the Consolidated balance sheets against derivative receivables and 

cash collateral receivables from the same counterparty with respect to derivative contracts for which the Firm has obtained an 

appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement. Where such a legal opinion has not been either sought 

or obtained, the payables are not eligible under U.S. GAAP for netting on the Consolidated balance sheets, and are shown 

separately in the table below. 
20152014December 31, (in millions)GrossderivativepayablesAmounts nettedon theConsolidatedbalance sheetsNetderivativepayablesGrossderivativepayablesAmounts nettedon theConsolidatedbalance sheetsNetderivativepayablesU.S. GAAP nettable derivative payablesInterest rate contracts:OTC$393,709$(384,576)$9,133
$515,904
(c)$(503,384)
(c)$12,520
OTC–cleared240,398(240,369)29
398,518(397,250)1,268
Exchange-traded
(a)———
———
Total interest rate contracts634,107(624,945)9,162
914,422(c)(900,634)(c)13,788Credit contracts:OTC44,379(43,019)1,360
65,432(64,904)528
OTC–cleared5,969(5,969)—
9,398(9,398)—
Total credit contracts50,348(48,988)1,360
74,830(74,302)528
Foreign exchange contracts:OTC185,178(170,830)14,348
217,998(c)(201,578)(c)16,420OTC–cleared301(301)—
66(66)—
Exchange-traded
(a)———
———
Total foreign exchange contracts185,479(171,131)14,348
218,064(c)(201,644)(c)16,420Equity contracts:OTC23,458(19,589)3,869
27,908(23,036)4,872
OTC–cleared———
———
Exchange-traded
(a)10,998(9,891)1,107
12,864(c)(11,486)(c)1,378Total equity contracts34,456(29,480)4,976
40,772(c)(34,522)(c)6,250Commodity contracts:OTC16,953(6,256)10,697
25,129(13,211)11,918
OTC–cleared———
———
Exchange-traded
(a)9,374(9,322)
5218,486(15,344)
3,142Total commodity contracts26,327(15,578)10,749
43,615(28,555)15,060
Derivative payables with appropriate legal opinions$930,717$(890,122)
(b)$40,595
$1,291,703
(c)$(1,239,657)
(b)(c)$52,046
Derivative payables where an appropriate legalopinion has not been either sought or obtained12,19512,195
19,07019,070
Total derivative payables recognized on theConsolidated balance sheets$942,912$52,790
$1,310,773
(c)$71,116
(a) Exchange-traded derivative balances that relate to futures contracts are settled daily.

(b) Included cash collateral netted of $61.6 billion and $64.2 billion related to OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives at December 3
1, 2015, and 2014, respectively.
(c) The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. These revisions had no impact o
n Firm’s Consolidated 
balance sheets or its results of operations.
In addition to the cash collateral received and transferred 

that is presented on a net basis with net derivative 

receivables and payables, the Firm receives and transfers 

additional collateral (financial instruments and cash). These 

amounts mitigate counterparty credit risk associated with 

the Firm’s derivative instruments but are not eligible for net 

presentation, because (a) the collateral consists of non-cash 

financial instruments (generally U.S. government and 
agency securities and other Group of Seven Nations (“G7”) 

government bonds), (b) the amount of collateral held or 

transferred exceeds the fair value exposure, at the 

individual counterparty level, as of the date presented, or 

(c) the collateral relates to derivative receivables or 

payables where an appropriate legal opinion has not been 

either sought or obtained. JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report215The following tables present information regarding cer
tain financial instrument collateral received and transferred as of 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, that is not eligible for net presentation under U.S. GAAP. The collateral included in these tables 
relates only to the derivative instruments for which appropriate legal opinions have been obtained; excluded are (i) additional 

collateral that exceeds the fair value exposure and (ii) all collateral related to derivative instruments where an appropriate 

legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained.
 Derivative receivable collateral20152014December 31, (in millions)Net derivativereceivablesCollateral notnettable on theConsolidatedbalance sheetsNetexposureNet derivativereceivablesCollateral notnettable on theConsolidatedbalance sheetsNetexposureDerivative receivables with appropriate legal opinions$45,441$(13,543)
(a)$31,898
$58,258$(16,194)
(a)$42,064
Derivative payable collateral
(b)20152014December 31, (in millions)Net derivativepayablesCollateral notnettable on theConsolidatedbalance sheetsNet amount(c)
Net derivativepayablesCollateral notnettable on theConsolidatedbalance sheetsNet amount(c)
Derivative payables with appropriate legal opinions
$40,595$(7,957)
(a)$32,638
$52,046$(10,505)
(a)$41,541
(a) Represents liquid security collateral as well as cash collateral held at third party custodians. For some counterparties, t
he collateral amounts of financial 
instruments may exceed the derivative receivables and derivative payables balances. Where this is the case, the total amount re
ported is limited to the net 
derivative receivables and net derivative payables balances with that counterparty.
(b) Derivative payables collateral relates only to OTC and OTC-cleared derivative instruments. Amounts exclude collateral transferred related to exchange-
traded derivative instruments.
(c) Net amount represents exposure of counterparties to the Firm.
Liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features
 In addition to the specific market risks introduced by each 

derivative contract type, derivatives expose JPMorgan 

Chase to credit risk — the risk that derivative counterparties 

may fail to meet their payment obligations under the 

derivative contracts and the collateral, if any, held by the 

Firm proves to be of insufficient value 
to cover the payment obligation. It is the policy of JPMorgan Chase to actively 

pursue, where possible, the use of legally enforceable 

master netting arrangements and collateral agreements to 

mitigate derivative counterparty credit risk. The amount of 

derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated balance 

sheets is the fair value of the derivative contracts after 

giving effect to legally enforceable master netting 

agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm.
While derivative receivables expose the Firm to credit risk, 
derivative payables expose the Firm to liquidity risk, as the 

derivative contracts typically require the Firm to post cash 

or securities collateral with counterparties as the fair value 

of the contracts moves in the counterparties’ favor or upon 

specified downgrades in the Firm’s and its subsidiaries’ 

respective credit ratings. Certain derivative contracts also 

provide for termination of the contract, generally upon a 

downgrade of either the Firm or the counterparty, at the 

fair value of the derivative contracts. The following table 

shows the aggregate fair value of net derivative payables 

related to OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives that contain 

contingent collateral or termination features that may be 

triggered upon a ratings downgrade, and the associated 

collateral the Firm has posted in the normal course of 

business, at December 31, 2015 and 2014.OTC and OTC-cleared derivative payables containingdowngrade triggersDecember 31, (in millions)
20152014Aggregate fair value of net derivativepayables$22,328
$32,303
Collateral posted18,94227,585The following table shows the impact of a single-notch and 
two-notch downgrade of the long-term issuer ratings of 

JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries, predominantly 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan 

Chase Bank, N.A.”), at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 

related to OTC and OTC-cleared derivative contracts with 

contingent collateral or termination features that may be 

triggered upon a ratings downgrade. Derivatives contracts 

generally require additional collateral to be posted or 

terminations to be triggered when the predefined threshold 

rating is breached. A downgrade by a single rating agency 

that does not result in a rating lower than a preexisting 

corresponding rating provided by another major rating 

agency will generally not result in additional collateral 

(except in certain instances in which additional initial 

margin may be required upon a ratings downgrade), nor in 

termination payments requirements. The liquidity impact in 

the table is calculated based upon a downgrade below the 

lowest current rating by the rating agencies referred to in 

the derivative contract. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
216JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportLiquidity impact of downgrade triggers on OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives20152014December 31, (in millions)Single-notchdowngradeTwo-notchdowngradeSingle-notchdowngradeTwo-notchdowngradeAmount of additional collateral to be posted upon downgrade
(a)$807$3,028
$1,046$3,331
Amount required to settle contracts with termination triggers upon downgrade
(b)2711,093
3661,388
(a) Includes the additional collateral to be posted for initial margin.
(b) Amounts represent fair values of derivative payables, and do not reflect collateral posted.
Derivatives executed in contemplation of a sale of the underlying financial asset

In certain instances the Firm enters into transactions in which it transfers financial assets but maintains the economic exposu
re 
to the transferred assets by entering into a derivative with the same counterparty in contemplation of the initial transfer. Th
e Firm generally accounts for such transfers as collateralized financing transactions as described in Note 13, but in limited 
circumstances they may qualify to be accoun
ted for as a sale and a derivative under U.S. GAAP. The amount of such transfers 
accounted for as a sale where the associated derivative was outstanding at December 31, 2015 was not material.
Impact of derivatives on the 
Consolidated statements of incomeThe following tables provide information related to gains and losses recorded on derivatives based on their hedge accounting 
designation or purpose. 
Fair value hedge gains and losses 
The following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedge accounting relationships, as we
ll as pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives and the related hedged items for the years ended December 31, 2015, 

2014 and 2013, respectively. The Firm includes gains/(losses) on the hedging derivative and the related hedged item in the 

same line item in the Consolidated statements of income. 
Gains/(losses) recorded in incomeIncome statement impact due to:
Year ended December 31, 2015 (in millions)DerivativesHedged items
Total incomestatementimpactHedge ineffectiveness
(d)Excluded 
components
(e)
Contract typeInterest rate
(a)$38$911$949$3$946
Foreign exchange
(b)6,030(6,006)
24—24Commodity
(c)
1,153(1,142)
11(13)24Total$7,221$(6,237)$984$(10)$994
Gains/(losses) recorded in incomeIncome statement impact due to:
Year ended December 31, 2014 (in millions)DerivativesHedged items
Total incomestatementimpactHedge ineffectiveness
(d)Excluded 
components
(e)
Contract type
Interest rate
(a)$2,106$(801)$1,305$131$1,174
Foreign exchange
(b)8,279(8,532)(253)
—(253)Commodity
(c)
4914519442152Total$10,434$(9,188)$1,246$173$1,073
Gains/(losses) recorded in incomeIncome statement impact due to:
Year ended December 31, 2013 (in millions)DerivativesHedged items
Total incomestatementimpactHedge ineffectiveness
(d)Excluded 
components
(e)
Contract type
Interest rate
(a)$(3,469)$4,851$1,382$(132)$1,514
Foreign exchange
(b)(1,096)864(232)—(232)Commodity
(c)
485(1,304)(819)
38(857)Total$(4,080)$4,411$331$(94)$425
(a) Primarily consists of hedges of the benchmark (e.g., London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”)) interest rate risk of fixed-r
ate long-term debt and AFS 
securities. Gains and losses were recorded in net interest income. 
(b) Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of long-term debt and AFS securities for changes in spot foreign currency rates. Gains and losses 
related to the derivatives and the hedged items, due to changes in foreign currency rates, were recorded primarily in principal transactions revenue and 
net interest income.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report217(c) Consists of overall fair value hedges of physical commodities inventories that are generally carried at the lower of cost or market (market approximates 
fair value). Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue.
(d) Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument does not exactly offset the gain or loss on the 
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
(e) The assessment of hedge effectiveness excludes certain components of the changes in fair values of the derivatives and hedg
ed items such as forward 
points on foreign exchange forward contracts and time values. 
Cash flow hedge gains and losses The following tables present derivative instruments, by contra
ct type, used in cash flow hedge accounting relationships, and 
the pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives, for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

The Firm includes the gain/(loss) on the hedging derivative and the change in cash flows on the hedged item in the same line 

item in the Consolidated statements of income. 
Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss)Year ended December 31, 2015
(in millions)Derivatives –effective portionreclassified fromAOCI to incomeHedge ineffectiveness 
recorded directly in 
income(c)
Total incomestatement impactDerivatives –effectiveportionrecorded in OCITotal change 
in OCI for period
Contract typeInterest rate
(a)$(99)$—$(99)$(44)$55
Foreign exchange
(b)(81)—(81)(53)28Total$(180)$—$(180)$(97)$83
Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss)Year ended December 31, 2014
(in millions)Derivatives –effective portionreclassified fromAOCI to incomeHedge ineffectiveness 
recorded directly 
in income(c)
Total incomestatement impactDerivatives –effectiveportionrecorded in OCITotal changein OCIfor periodContract typeInterest rate
(a)$(54)$—$(54)$189$243
Foreign exchange
(b)78—78
(91)(169)Total$24$—$24$98$
74Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss)Year ended December 31, 2013
(in millions)Derivatives –effective portionreclassified fromAOCI to incomeHedge ineffectiveness 
recorded directly 
in income(c)
Total incomestatement impactDerivatives –effectiveportionrecorded in OCITotal changein OCIfor periodContract typeInterest rate
(a)$(108)$—$(108)$(565)$(457)
Foreign exchange
(b)7—74
03
3Total$(101)$—$(101)$(525)$(424)
(a) Primarily consists of benchmark interest rate hedges of LIBOR-indexed floating-rate assets and floating-rate liabilities. G
ains and losses were recorded in 
net interest income, and for the forecasted transactions that the Firm determined during the year ended December 31, 2015, were
 probable of not 
occurring, in other income.
(b) Primarily consists of hedges of the foreign currency risk of non-U.S. dollar-denominated revenue and expense. The income statement classification of 
gains and losses follows the hedged item – primarily noninterest revenue and compensation expense.
(c) Hedge ineffectiveness is the amount by which the cumulative gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument exceeds th
e present value of the 
cumulative expected change in cash flows on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
218JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportIn 2015, the Firm reclassified approximately $150 million of net losses from AOCI to other income because the Firm 
determined that it was probable that the forecasted interest paymen
t cash flows would not occur as a result of the planned 
reduction in wholesale non-operating deposits. The Firm did not experience any forecasted transactions that failed to occur for 

the years ended December 31, 2014 or 2013.
Over the next 12 months, the Firm expects that approximately $95 million (after-tax) of net losses recorded in AOCI at 
December 31, 2015, related to cash flow hedges, will be recognized in income. For terminated cash flow hedges, the maximum 

length of time over which forecasted transactions are remaining is approximately 7 years. For open cash flow hedges, the 

maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is approximately 2 years. The Firm’s longer-dated 

forecasted transactions relate to core lending and borrowing activities.
Net investment hedge gains and losses The following table presents hedging instruments, by contract 
type, that were used in net investment hedge accounting 
relationships, and the pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such instruments for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 

2013.Gains/(losses) recorded in income and other comprehensive income/(loss)201520142013
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Excluded 
components 
recorded 
directly in 
income(a)Effectiveportionrecorded in OCIExcluded 
components 
recorded 
directly in 
income(a)Effectiveportionrecorded in OCIExcluded 
components 
recorded 
directly in 
income(a)Effectiveportionrecorded in OCIForeign exchange derivatives
$(379)$1,885
$(448)$1,698$(383)$773
(a) Certain components of hedging derivatives are permitted to be excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, such as 
forward points on foreign 
exchange forward contracts. Amounts related to excluded components are recorded in other income. The Firm measures the ineffect
iveness of net 
investment hedge accounting relationships based on changes in spot foreign currency rates and, therefore, there was no signific
ant ineffectiveness for net 
investment hedge accounting relationships during 2015, 2014 and 2013.
Gains and losses on derivatives used for specified risk 
management purposes 
The following table presents pretax gains/(losses) recorded 

on a limited number of derivatives, not designated in hedge 

accounting relationships, that are used to manage risks 

associated with certain specified assets and liabilities, 

including certain risks arising from the mortgage pipeline, 

warehouse loans, MSRs, wholesale lending exposures, AFS 

securities, foreign currency-denominated assets and 

liabilities, and commodities-related contracts and 

investments. 
Derivatives gains/(losses) 
recorded in income
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Contract type
Interest rate
(a)$853
$2,308$617
Credit
(b)70(58)(142)
Foreign exchange
(c)
25(7)1
Commodity
(d)(12)156178
Total$936
$2,399$654
(a) Primarily represents interest rate derivatives used to hedge the 
interest rate risk inherent in the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans 
and MSRs, as well as written commitments to originate warehouse 

loans. Gains and losses were recorded predominantly in mortgage fees 

and related income.
(b) Relates to credit derivatives used to mitigate credit risk associated 
with lending exposures in the Firm’s wholesale businesses. These 

derivatives do not include credit derivatives used to mitigate 

counterparty credit risk arising from derivative receivables, which is 

included in gains and losses on derivatives related to market-making 

activities and other derivatives. Gains and losses were recorded in 

principal transactions revenue.
(c) Primarily relates to hedges of the foreign exchange risk of specified 
foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Gains and losses 

were recorded in principal transactions revenue.
(d) Primarily relates to commodity derivatives used to mitigate energy 
price risk associated with energy-related contracts and investments. 

Gains and losses were recorded in principal transactions revenue.
Gains and losses on derivatives related to market-making 

activities and other derivatives 

The Firm makes markets in derivatives in order to meet the 

needs of customers and uses derivatives to manage certain 

risks associated with net open risk positions from the Firm’s 

market-making activities, including the counterparty credit 

risk arising from derivative receivables. All derivatives not 

included in the hedge accounting or specified risk 

management categories above are included in this category. 

Gains and losses on these derivatives are primarily recorded 

in principal transactions revenue. See Note 7 for 

information on principal transactions revenue. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report219Credit derivatives 
Credit derivatives are financial instruments whose value is 

derived from the credit risk associated with the debt of a 

third-party issuer (the reference entity) and which allow 

one party (the protection purchaser) to transfer that risk to 

another party (the protection seller). Credit derivatives 

expose the protection purchaser to the creditworthiness of 

the protection seller, as the protection seller is required to 

make payments under the contract when the reference 

entity experiences a credit event, such as a bankruptcy, a 

failure to pay its obligation or a restructuring. The seller of 

credit protection receives a premium for providing 

protection but has the risk that the underlying instrument 

referenced in the contract will be subject to a credit event. 
The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of protection in the 
credit derivatives market and uses these derivatives for two 

primary purposes. First, in its capacity as a market-maker, 

the Firm actively manages a portfolio of credit derivatives 

by purchasing and selling credit protection, predominantly 

on corporate debt obligations, to meet the needs of 

customers. Second, as an end-user, the Firm uses credit 

derivatives to manage credit risk associated with lending 

exposures (loans and unfunded commitments) and 

derivatives counterparty exposures in the Firm’s wholesale 

businesses, and to manage the credit risk arising from 

certain financial instruments in the Firm’s market-making 

businesses. Following is a summary of various types of 

credit derivatives. 
Credit default swaps 
Credit derivatives may reference the credit of either a single 

reference entity (“single-name”) or a broad-based index. 

The Firm purchases and sells protection on both single- 

name and index-reference obligations. Single-name CDS and 

index CDS contracts are either OTC or OTC-cleared 

derivative contracts. Single-name CDS are used to manage 

the default risk of a single reference entity, while index CDS 

contracts are used to manage the credit risk associated with 

the broader credit markets or credit market segments. Like 

the S&P 500 and other market indices, a CDS index consists 

of a portfolio of CDS across many reference entities. New 

series of CDS indices are periodically established with a new 

underlying portfolio of reference entities to reflect changes 

in the credit markets. If one of the reference entities in the 

index experiences a credit event, then the reference entity 

that defaulted is removed from the index. CDS can also be 

referenced against specific portfolios of reference names or 

against customized exposure levels based on specific client 

demands: for example, to provide protection against the 

first $1 million of realized credit losses in a $10 million 

portfolio of exposure. Such structures are commonly known 

as tranche CDS. 
For both single-name CDS contracts and index CDS 

contracts, upon the occurrence of a credit event, under the 

terms of a CDS contract neither party to the CDS contract 

has recourse to the reference entity. The protection 

purchaser has recourse to the protection seller for the 

difference between the face value of the CDS contract and 

the fair value of the reference obligation at settlement of 

the credit derivative contract, also known as the recovery 

value. The protection purchaser does not need to hold the 

debt instrument of the underlying reference entity in order 

to receive amounts due under the CDS contract when a 

credit event occurs. 
Credit-related notes 
A credit-related note is a funded credit derivative where the 

issuer of the credit-related note purchases from the note 

investor credit protection on a reference entity or an index. 

Under the contract, the investor pays the issuer the par 

value of the note at the inception of the transaction, and in 

return, the issuer pays periodic payments to the investor, 

based on the credit risk of the referenced entity. The issuer 

also repays the investor the par value of the note at 

maturity unless the reference entity (or one of the entities 

that makes up a reference index) experiences a specified 

credit event. If a credit event occurs, the issuer is not 

obligated to repay the par value of the note, but rather, the 

issuer pays the investor the difference between the par 

value of the note and the fair value of the defaulted 

reference obligation at the time of settlement. Neither party 

to the credit-related note has recourse to the defaulting 

reference entity.
The following tables present a summary of the notional 
amounts of credit derivatives and credit-related notes the 

Firm sold and purchased as of December 31, 2015 and 

2014. Upon a credit event, the Firm as a seller of protection 

would typically pay out only a percentage of the full 

notional amount of net protection sold, as the amount 

actually required to be paid on the contracts takes into 

account the recovery value of the reference obligation at 

the time of settlement. The Firm manages the credit risk on 

contracts to sell protection by purchasing protection with 

identical or similar underlying reference entities. Other 

purchased protection referenced in the following tables 

includes credit derivatives bought on related, but not 

identical, reference positions (including indices, portfolio 

coverage and other reference points) as well as protection 

purchased through credit-related notes. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
220JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe Firm does not use notional amounts of credit derivatives as the primary measure of risk management for such derivatives, 
because the notional amount does not take into account the probability of the 
occurrence of a credit event, the recovery value 
of the reference obligation, or related cash instruments and economic hedges, each of which reduces, in the Firm’s view, the 

risks associated with such derivatives. 
Total credit derivatives 
and credit-related notes
Maximum payout/Notional amountProtection soldProtection purchased 
with identical 
underlyings
(b)Net protection 
(sold)/purchased
(c)
Other protection 
purchased
(d)December 31, 2015 (in millions)Credit derivativesCredit default swaps$(1,386,071)$1,402,201$16,130$12,011
Other credit derivatives
(a)(42,738)38,158(4,580)18,792
Total credit derivatives(1,428,809)1,440,35911,55030,803
Credit-related notes(30)—(30)4,715
Total$(1,428,839)$1,440,359$11,520$35,518
Maximum payout/Notional amountProtection soldProtection purchased 
with identical 
underlyings
(b)Net protection 
(sold)/purchased
(c)
Other protection 
purchased
(d)December 31, 2014 (in millions)
Credit derivatives
Credit default swaps$(2,056,982)$2,078,096$21,114$18,631

Other credit derivatives
(a)(43,281)32,048(11,233)19,475
Total credit derivatives(2,100,263)2,110,1449,88138,106
Credit-related notes(40)—(40)3,704
Total$(2,100,303)$2,110,144$9,841$41,810
 (a) Other credit derivatives predominantly consists of credit swap options.
(b) Represents the total notional amount of protection purchased where the underlying reference instrument is identical to the reference instrument on protection sold; the notional 
amount of protection purchased for each individual identical underlying reference instrument may be greater or lower than the n
otional amount of protection sold.
(c) Does not take into account the fair value of the reference obligation at the time of settlement, which would generally redu
ce the amount the seller of protection pays to the 
buyer of protection in determining settlement value. 
(d) Represents protection purchased by the Firm on referenced instruments (single-name, portfolio or index) where the Firm has 
not sold any protection on the identical reference 
instrument.
The following tables summarize the notional amounts by the ratings and maturity profile, and the total fair value, of credit 

derivatives and credit-related notes as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, where JPMorgan Chase is the seller of protection. The 
maturity profile is based on the remaining contractual maturity of the credit derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based 
on the rating of the reference entity on which the credit derivative contract is based. The ratings and maturity profile of cre
dit derivatives and credit-related notes where JPMorgan Chase is the purchaser of protection are comparable to the profile 

reflected below. 
Protection sold – credit derivatives and credit-related notes ratings
(a)/maturity profile
December 31, 2015(in millions)<1 year1–5 years>5 years
Total notionalamountFair value of 
receivables
(b)Fair value of 
payables
(b)Net fairvalueRisk rating of reference entityInvestment-grade$(307,211)$(699,227)$(46,970)$(1,053,408)$13,539$(6,836)$6,703
Noninvestment-grade(109,195)(245,151)(21,085)(375,431)10,823(18,891)(8,068)
Total$(416,406)$(944,378)$(68,055)$(1,428,839)$24,362$(25,727)$(1,365)
December 31, 2014
(in millions)<1 year1–5 years>5 years
Total notionalamountFair value of 
receivables
(b)Fair value of 
payables
(b)Net fairvalueRisk rating of reference entityInvestment-grade$(323,398)$(1,118,293)$(79,486)$(1,521,177)$25,767$(6,314)$19,453
Noninvestment-grade(157,281)(396,798)(25,047)(579,126)20,677(22,455)(1,778)
Total$(480,679)$(1,515,091)$(104,533)$(2,100,303)$46,444$(28,769)$17,675
(a) The ratings scale is primarily based on external credit ratings defined by S&P and Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”).
(b) Amounts are shown on a gross basis, before the benefit of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral
 received by the Firm. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report221Note 7 – Noninterest revenue
Investment banking fees 
This revenue category includes equity and debt 

underwriting and advisory fees. Underwriting fees are 

recognized as revenue when the Firm has rendered all 

services to the issuer and is entitled to collect the fee from 

the issuer, as long as there are no other contingencies 

associated with the fee. Underwriting fees are net of 

syndicate expense; the Firm recognizes credit arrangement 

and syndication fees as revenue after satisfying certain 

retention, timing and yield criteria. Advisory fees are 

recognized as revenue when the related services have been 

performed and the fee has been earned. 
The following table presents 
the components of investment 
banking fees. 
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)201520142013
UnderwritingEquity
$1,408
$1,571$1,499
Debt3,2323,3403,537
Total underwriting4,640
4,9115,036
Advisory2,1111,6311,318
Total investment banking fees$6,751
$6,542$6,354
Principal transactions 
Principal transactions revenue consists of realized and 

unrealized gains and losses on derivatives and other 

instruments (including those accounted for under the fair 

value option) primarily used in client-driven market-making 

activities and on private equity investments. In connection 

with its client-driven market-making activities, the Firm 

transacts in debt and equity instruments, derivatives and 

commodities (including physical commodities inventories 

and financial instruments that reference commodities). 
Principal transactions revenue also includes realized and 
unrealized gains and losses related to hedge accounting and 

specified risk-management activities, including: (a) certain 

derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting 

relationships (primarily fair value hedges of commodity and 

foreign exchange risk), (b) certain derivatives used for 

specific risk management purposes, primarily to mitigate 

credit risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity risk, and 

(c) other derivatives. For further information on the income 

statement classification of gains and losses from derivatives 

activities, see Note 6.In the financial commodity markets, the Firm transacts in 
OTC derivatives 
(e.g., swaps, forwards, options) and 
exchange-traded derivatives that reference a wide range of 

underlying commodities. In the physical commodity 

markets, the Firm primarily purchases and sells precious 

and base metals and may hold other commodities 

inventories under financing and other arrangements with 

clients. Prior to the 2014 sale of certain parts of its physical 

commodity business, the Firm also engaged in the 

purchase, sale, transport and storage of power, gas, 

liquefied natural gas, coal, crude oil and refined products.
Physical commodities inventories are generally carried at 

the lower of cost or market (market approximates fair 

value) subject to any applicable fair value hedge accounting 

adjustments, with realized gains and losses and unrealized 

losses recorded in principal transactions revenue. 
The following table presents all realized and unrealized 
gains and losses recorded in principal transactions revenue. 

This table excludes interest income and interest expense on 

trading assets and liabilities, which are an integral part of 

the overall performance of the Firm’s client-driven market-

making activities. See Note 8 for further information on 

interest income and interest expense. Trading revenue is 

presented primarily by instrument type. The Firm’s client-

driven market-making businesses generally utilize a variety 

of instrument types in connection with their market-making 

and related risk-management activities; accordingly, the 

trading revenue presented in the table below is not 

representative of the total revenue of any individual line of 

business. Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Trading revenue by instrument
typeInterest rate
$1,933
$1,362$284
Credit1,7351,8802,654
Foreign exchange
2,5571,5561,801
Equity
2,9902,5632,517
Commodity
(a)8421,6632,083
Total trading revenue10,057
9,0249,339
Private equity gains
(b)3511,507802
Principal transactions$10,408
$10,531$10,141
(a) Commodity derivatives are frequently used to manage the Firm’s risk 
exposure to its physical commodities inventories. For gains/(losses) related 
to commodity fair value hedges, see Note 6.
(b) Includes revenue on private equity investments held in the Private Equity 
business within Corporate, as well as those held in other business 

segments.Lending- and deposit-related fees 

This revenue category includes fees from loan 

commitments, standby letters of credit, financial 

guarantees, deposit-related fees in lieu of compensating 

balances, cash management-related activities or 

transactions, deposit accounts and other loan-servicing 

activities. These fees are recognized over the period in 

which the related service is provided. 
Asset management, administration and commissions 
This revenue category includes fees from investment 

management and related services, custody, brokerage 

services, insurance premiums and commissions, and other 

products. These fees are recognized over the period in 

which the related service is provided. Performance-based 

fees, which are earned based on exceeding certain 

benchmarks or other performance targets, are accrued and 

recognized at the end of the performance period in which 

the target is met. The Firm has contractual arrangements 

with third parties to provide certain services in connection 

with its asset management activities. Amounts paid to third-
Notes to consolidated financial statements
222JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportparty service providers are predominantly expensed, such 
that asset management fees are recorded gross of 

payments made to third parties. 
The following table presents Firmwide asset management, 
administration and commissions. 
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)201520142013
Asset management feesInvestment management fees
(a)$9,403
$9,169$8,044
All other asset management fees
(b)352477505
Total asset management fees9,755
9,6468,549
Total administration fees
(c)
2,0152,1792,101
Commissions and other fees
Brokerage commissions2,3042,2702,321
All other commissions and fees1,4351,8362,135
Total commissions and fees3,739
4,1064,456
Total asset management,administration andcommissions$15,509
$15,931$15,106
(a) Represents fees earned from managing assets on behalf of the Firm’s 
clients, including investors in Firm-sponsored funds and owners of 
separately managed investment accounts.
(b) Represents fees for services that are ancillary to investment management 
services, such as commissions earned on the sales or distribution of 

mutual funds to clients.
(c) Predominantly includes fees for custody, securities lending, funds services 
and securities clearance.
Mortgage fees and related income

This revenue category primarily reflects CCB’s Mortgage 

Banking production and servicing revenue, including fees 

and income derived from mortgages originated with the 

intent to sell; mortgage sales and servicing including losses 

related to the repurchase of previously sold loans; the 

impact of risk-management activities associated with the 

mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans and MSRs; and revenue 

related to any residual interests held from mortgage 

securitizations. This revenue category also includes gains 

and losses on sales and lower of cost or fair value 

adjustments for mortgage loans held-for-sale, as well as 

changes in fair value for mortgage loans originated with the 

intent to sell and measured at fair value under the fair value 

option. Changes in the fair value of CCB MSRs are reported 

in mortgage fees and related income. Net interest income 

from mortgage loans is recorded in interest income. For a 

further discussion of MSRs, see Note 17.
Card income

This revenue category includes interchange income from 

credit and debit cards and net fees earned from processing 

credit card transactions for merchants. Card income is 

recognized as earned. Cost related to rewards programs is 

recorded when the rewards are earned by the customer and 

presented as a reduction to interchange income. Annual 

fees and direct loan origination costs are deferred and 

recognized on a straight-line basis over a 12-month period. 
Credit card revenue sharing agreements
The Firm has contractual agreements with numerous co-

brand partners and affinity organizations (collectively, 

“partners”), which grant the Firm exclusive rights to market 

to the customers or members of such partners. These 

partners endorse the credit card programs and provide 

their customer and member lists to the Firm, and they may 

also conduct marketing activities and provide awards under 

the various credit card programs. The terms of these 

agreements generally range from three to ten years.
The Firm typically makes incentive payments to the 
partners based on new account originations, sales volumes 

and the cost of the partners’ marketing activities and 

awards. Payments based on new account originations are 

accounted for as direct loan origination costs. Payments to 

partners based on sales volumes are deducted from 

interchange income as the related revenue is earned. 

Payments based on marketing efforts undertaken by the 

partners are expensed by the Firm as incurred and reported 

as noninterest expense.
Other incomeOther income on the Firm’s Consolidated statements of 

income included the following: 
Year ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Operating lease income$2,081
$1,699$1,472
Gain from sale of Visa B shares——1,310
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report223Note 8 – Interest income and Interest expense
Interest income and interest expense are recorded in the 
Consolidated statements of income and classified based on 

the nature of the underlying asset or liability. Interest 

income and interest expense includes the current-period 

interest accruals for financial instruments measured at fair 

value, except for financial instruments containing 

embedded derivatives that would be separately accounted 

for in accordance with U.S. GAAP absent the fair value 

option election; for those instruments, all changes in fair 

value, including any interest elements, are reported in 

principal transactions revenue. For financial instruments 

that are not measured at fair value, the related interest is 

included within interest income or interest expense, as 

applicable. 
Details of interest income and interest expense were as 
follows. 
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Interest IncomeLoans$33,134
$32,218$33,489
 Taxable securities6,5507,6176,916
 Non taxable securities
(a)1,7061,423896
Total securities8,2569,0407,812
Trading assets6,6217,3128,099
Federal funds sold and securitiespurchased under resaleagreements1,5921,6421,940
Securities borrowed
(b)(532)(501)(127)
Deposits with banks1,2501,157918
Other assets(c)
652663538
Total interest income$50,973
$51,531$52,669
Interest expenseInterest bearing deposits$1,252
$1,633$2,067
Federal funds purchased andsecurities loaned or sold underrepurchase agreements609604582
Commercial paper110134112
Trading liabilities - debt, short-term and other liabilities6227121,104
Long-term debt4,4354,4095,007
Beneficial interest issued byconsolidated VIEs435405478
Total interest expense$7,463
$7,897$9,350
Net interest income$43,510
$43,634$43,319
Provision for credit losses3,8273,139225
Net interest income afterprovision for credit losses$39,683
$40,495$43,094
(a) Represents securities which are tax exempt for U.S. federal income tax 
purposes.(b) Negative interest income for the years ended December 31, 2015, 
2014 and 2013, is a result of increased client-driven demand for 
certain securities combined with the impact of low interest rates; this 

is matched book activity and the negative interest expense on the 

corresponding securities loaned is recognized in interest expense.
(c) Largely margin loans.

(d) Includes brokerage customer payables.
Note 9 – Pension and other postretirement 

employee benefit plans 
The Firm has various defined benefit pension plans and 

other postretirement employee benefit (“OPEB”) plans that 

provide benefits to its employees. These plans are discussed 

below.
Defined benefit pension plans
The Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S. defined 

benefit pension plan that provides benefits to substantially 

all U.S. employees. The U.S. plan employs a cash balance 

formula in the form of pay and interest credits to determine 

the benefits to be provided at retirement, based on years of 

service and eligible compensation (generally base salary/

regular pay and variable incentive compensation capped at 

$100,000 annually). Employees begin to accrue plan 

benefits after completing one year of service, and benefits 

generally vest after three years of service. The Firm also 

offers benefits through defined benefit pension plans to 

qualifying employees in certain non-U.S. locations based on 

factors such as eligible compensation, age and/or years of 

service.
It is the Firm’s policy to fund the pension plans in amounts 
sufficient to meet the requirements under applicable laws. 

The Firm does not anticipate at this time any contribution to 

the U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2016. The 2016 

contributions to the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans 

are expected to be $47 million of which $31 million are 

contractually required.
JPMorgan Chase also has a number of defined benefit 
pension plans that are not subject to Title IV of the 

Employee Retirement Income Security Act. The most 

significant of these plans is the Excess Retirement Plan, 

pursuant to which certain employees previously earned pay 

credits on compensation amounts above the maximum 

stipulated by law under a qualified plan; no further pay 

credits are allocated under this plan. The Excess Retirement 

Plan had an unfunded projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) 

in the amount of $237 million and $257 million, at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Defined contribution plans
JPMorgan Chase currently provides two qualified defined 

contribution plans in the U.S. and other similar 

arrangements in certain non-U.S. locations, all of which are 

administered in accordance with applicable local laws and 

regulations. The most significant of these plans is the 

JPMorgan Chase 401(k) Savings Plan (the “401(k) Savings 

Plan”), which covers substantially all U.S. employees. 

Employees can contribute to the 401(k) Savings Plan on a 

pretax and/or Roth 401(k) after-tax basis. The JPMorgan 

Chase Common Stock Fund, which is an investment option 

under the 401(k) Savings Plan, is a nonleveraged employee 

stock ownership plan.
The Firm matches eligible employee contributions up to 5% 
of eligible compensation (generally base salary/regular pay 

and variable incentive compensation) on an annual basis. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
224JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportEmployees begin to receive matching contributions after 
completing a one-year-of-service requirement. Employees 

with total annual cash compensation of $250,000 or more 

are not eligible for matching contributions. Matching 

contributions vest after three years of service. The 401(k) 

Savings Plan also permits discretionary profit-sharing 

contributions by participating companies for certain 

employees, subject to a specified vesting schedule.
OPEB plansJPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and life 

insurance benefits to certain retirees and postretirement 

medical benefits to qualifying U.S. employees. These 

benefits vary with the length of service and the date of hire 

and provide for limits on the Firm’s share of covered 

medical benefits. The medical and life insurance benefits 

are both contributory. Effective January 1, 2015, there was 
a transition of certain Medicare eligible retirees from JPMC 

group sponsored coverage to Medicare exchanges. As a 

result of this change, eligible retirees will receive a 

Healthcare Reimbursement Account amount each year if 

they enroll through the Medicare exchange. The impact of 

this change was not material. Postretirement medical 

benefits also are offered to qualifying United Kingdom 

(“U.K.”) employees.
JPMorgan Chase’s U.S. OPEB obligation is funded with 
corporate-owned life insurance (“COLI”) purchased on the 

lives of eligible employees and retirees. While the Firm 

owns the COLI policies, COLI proceeds (death benefits, 

withdrawals and other distributions) may be used only to 

reimburse the Firm for its net postretirement benefit claim 

payments and related administrative expense. The U.K. 

OPEB plan is unfunded.The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status amounts reported on the 

Consolidated balance sheets for the Firm’s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.
 Defined benefit pension plansAs of or for the year ended December 31,U.S.Non-U.S.OPEB plans
(d)(in millions)201520142015201420152014Change in benefit obligationBenefit obligation, beginning of year$(12,536)
$(10,776)
$(3,640)
$(3,433)
$(842)
$(826)
Benefits earned during the year(340)(281)(37)(33)(1)—Interest cost on benefit obligations(498)(534)(112)(137)(31)(38)Plan amendments—(53)————Special termination benefits——(1)
(1)——Curtailments———
——(3)Employee contributionsNANA(7)(7)(25)(62)Net gain/(loss)702(1,669)146(408)71(58)Benefits paid76077712011988145Expected Medicare Part D subsidy receiptsNANANANA(6)(2)Foreign exchange impact and other——18426022Benefit obligation, end of year$(11,912)
$(12,536)
$(3,347)
$(3,640)
$(744)
$(842)
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year$14,623
$14,354
$3,718
$3,532
$1,903
$1,757
Actual return on plan assets2311,0105251813159Firm contributions3136454623Employee contributions——77——Benefits paid(760)(777)(120)(119)(63)(16)Foreign exchange impact and other——(191)(266)——Fair value of plan assets, end of year$14,125
$14,623
(b)(c)$3,511
$3,718
$1,855
$1,903
Net funded status(a)$2,213
$2,087
$164
$78
$1,111
$1,061
Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year$(11,774)
$(12,375)
$(3,322)
$(3,615)
NANA(a) Represents plans with an aggregate overfunded balance of $4.1 billion and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respe
ctively, and plans with an 
aggregate underfunded balance of $636 million and $708 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
(b) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, approximately $533 million and $336 million, respectively, of U.S. plan assets included part
icipation rights under participating annuity contracts.
(c) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, defined benefit pension plan amounts not measured at fair value included $74 million and $10
6 million, respectively, of 
accrued receivables, and $123 million and $257 million, respectively, of accrued liabilities, for U.S. plans.
(d) Includes an unfunded accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of $32 million and $37 million at December 31, 2015 and 
2014, respectively, for the 
U.K. plan.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report225Gains and lossesFor the Firm’s defined benefit pension plans, fair value is 

used to determine the expected return on plan assets. 

Amortization of net gains and losses is included in annual 

net periodic benefit cost if, as of the beginning of the year, 

the net gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the PBO 

or the fair value of the plan assets. Any excess is amortized 

over the average future service period of defined benefit 

pension plan participants, which for the U.S. defined benefit 

pension plan is currently seven years and for the non-U.S. 

defined benefit pension plans is the period appropriate for 

the affected plan. In addition, prior service costs are 

amortized over the average remaining service period of 

active employees expected to receive benefits under the 

plan when the prior service cost is first recognized. 

The average remaining amortization period for the U.S. 

defined benefit pension plan for current prior service costs 

is four years.
For the Firm’s OPEB plans, a calculated value that 

recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year period is 

used to determine the expected return on plan assets. This 

value is referred to as the market related value of assets. 

Amortization of net gains and losses, adjusted for gains and 

losses not yet recognized, is included in annual net periodic 

benefit cost if, as of the beginning of the year, the net gain 

or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the accumulated 

postretirement benefit obligation or the market related 

value of assets. Any excess net gain or loss is amortized 

over the average expected lifetime of retired participants, 

which is currently thirteen years; however, prior service 

costs resulting from plan changes are amortized over the 

average years of service remaining to full eligibility age, 

which is currently two years.
The following table presents pretax pension and OPEB amounts recorded in AOCI.
Defined benefit pension plans December 31,U.S.Non-U.S.OPEB plans
(in millions)201520142015201420152014Net gain/(loss)$(3,096)
$(3,346)
$(513)
$(628)
$109
$130
Prior service credit/(cost)68102911——Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss), pretax, end of year$(3,028)
$(3,244)
$(504)
$(617)
$109
$130
The following table presents the components of net periodic 
benefit costs reported in the Consolidated statements of income 
and other comprehensive income for the Firm’s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension, defined contribution and OPEB 
plans.Pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.OPEB plansYear ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
Components of net periodic benefit costBenefits earned during the year$340
$281$314
$37
$33$34
$1$—$1
Interest cost on benefit obligations498534447
112137125
313835
Expected return on plan assets(929)(985)(956)
(150)(172)(142)
(106)(101)(92)
Amortization:Net (gain)/loss24725271
354749
——1Prior service cost/(credit)(34)(41)(41)
(2)(2)(2)
—(1)—
Special termination benefits———1—————Net periodic defined benefit cost122(186)35
334364
(74)(64)(55)
Other defined benefit pension plans(a)141415
10614
NANANA
Total defined benefit plans136
(172)50
434978
(74)(64)(55)
Total defined contribution plans449438447
320329321
NANANA
Total pension and OPEB cost included incompensation expense$585
$266$497
$363
$378$399
$(74)
$(64)$(55)
Changes in plan assets and benefit obligationsrecognized in other comprehensive incomeNet (gain)/loss arising during the year$(3)
$1,645$(1,817)
$(47)
$57$19
$21
$(5)$(257)
Prior service credit arising during the year—53—
——————Amortization of net loss(247)(25)(271)
(35)(47)(49)
——(1)
Amortization of prior service (cost)/credit344141
222—1—Foreign exchange impact and other———(33)(a)(39)(a)14(a)———Total recognized in other comprehensive income$(216)
$1,714$(2,047)
$(113)
$(27)$(14)
$21
$(4)$(258)
Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost andother comprehensive income$(94)
$1,528$(2,012)
$(80)
$16$50
$(53)
$(68)$(313)
(a) Includes various defined benefit pension plans which are individually immaterial.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
226JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe estimated pretax amounts that will be amortized from AOCI 
into net periodic benefit cost in 2016 are as follows.
 Defined benefit pension plansOPEB plans
(in millions)U.S.Non-U.S.U.S.Non-U.S.
Net loss/(gain)$231$23$—$—
Prior service cost/(credit)(34)(2)——

Total$197$21$—$—
The following table presents the actual rate of return on plan assets for the U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and 
OPEB plans. U.S.Non-U.S.Year ended December 31,201520142013
201520142013Actual rate of return:      Defined benefit pension plans0.88%7.29%15.95%
(0.48) – 4.92%5.62 – 17.69%3.74 – 23.80%
OPEB plans1.169.8413.88
NANANAPlan assumptions
JPMorgan Chase’s expected long-term rate of return for U.S. 

defined benefit pension and OPEB plan assets is a blended 
average of the investment advisor’s projected long-term 

(10 years or more) returns for the various asset classes, 

weighted by the asset allocation. Returns on asset classes 

are developed using a forward-looking approach and are 

not strictly based on historical returns. Equity returns are 

generally developed as the sum of inflation, expected real 

earnings growth and expected long-term dividend yield. 

Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of 

inflation, real bond yield and risk spread (as appropriate), 

adjusted for the expected effect on returns from changing 

yields. Other asset-class returns are derived from their 

relationship to the equity and bond markets. Consideration 

is also given to current market conditions and the short-

term portfolio mix of each plan.
For the U.K. defined benefit pension plans, which represent 
the most significant of the non-U.S. defined benefit pension 

plans, procedures similar to those in the U.S. are used to 

develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan 

assets, taking into consideration local market conditions 

and the specific allocation of plan assets. The expected 

long-term rate of return on U.K. plan assets is an average of 

projected long-term returns for each asset class. The return 

on equities has been selected by reference to the yield on 

long-term U.K. government bonds plus an equity risk 

premium above the risk-free rate. The expected return on 

“AA” rated long-term corporate bonds is based on an 

implied yield for similar bonds.
The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation 
under the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans was 

provided by our actuaries. This rate was selected by 

reference to the yields on portfolios of bonds with maturity 

dates and coupons that closely match each of the plan’s 

projected cash flows; such portfolios are derived from a 

broad-based universe of high-quality corporate bonds as of 

the measurement date. In years in which these hypothetical 

bond portfolios generate excess cash, such excess is 

assumed to be reinvested at the one-year forward rates 
implied by the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve published 

as of the measurement date. The discount rate for the U.K. 

defined benefit pension plan represents a rate of 

appropriate duration from the analysis of yield curves 

provided by our actuaries.
In 2014, the Society of Actuaries (“SOA”) completed a 
comprehensive review of mortality experience of uninsured 

private retirement plans in the U.S. In October 2014, the 

SOA published new mortality tables and a new mortality 

improvement scale that reflects improved life expectancies 

and an expectation that this trend will continue. In 2014, 

the Firm adopted the SOA’s tables and projection scale, 

resulting in an estimated increase in PBO of $533 million. 

In 2015, the SOA updated the projection scale to reflect two 

additional years of historical data. The Firm has adopted the 

updated projection scale resulting in an estimated decrease 

in PBO in 2015 of $112 million.At December 31, 2015, the Firm increased the discount 
rates used to determine its benefit obligations for the U.S. 

defined benefit pension and OPEB plans in light of current 

market interest rates, which will result in a decrease in 

expense of approximately $63 million for 2016. The 2016 

expected long-term rate of return on U.S. defined benefit 

pension plan assets and U.S. OPEB plan assets are 6.50% 

and 5.75%, respectively. For 2016, the initial health care 

benefit obligation trend assumption has been set at 5.50%, 

and the ultimate health care trend assumption and the year 

to reach the ultimate rate remains at 5.00% and 2017, 

respectively, unchanged from 2015. As of December 31, 

2015, the interest crediting rate assumption and the 

assumed rate of compensation increase remained at 5.00% 

and 3.50%, respectively.
The following tables present the weighted-average 
annualized actuarial assumptions for the projected and 

accumulated postretirement benefit obligations, and the 

components of net periodic benefit costs, for the Firm’s 

significant U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and 

OPEB plans, as of and for the periods indicated. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report227Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations U.S.Non-U.S.
December 31,2015201420152014Discount rate:    
Defined benefit pension plans4.50%4.00%0.80 – 3.70%1.00 – 3.60%OPEB plans4.404.10——Rate of compensation increase3.503.502.25 – 4.302.75 – 4.20Health care cost trend rate:  
 Assumed for next year5.506.00——Ultimate5.005.00——Year when rate will reach ultimate20172017——Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs U.S.Non-U.S.Year ended December 31,201520142013
201520142013Discount rate:      
Defined benefit pension plans4.00%5.00%3.90%
1.00 – 3.60%1.10 – 4.40%1.40 – 4.40%
OPEB plans4.104.903.90———Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets: 
 Defined benefit pension plans6.507.007.500.90 – 4.801.20 – 5.302.40 – 4.90
OPEB plans6.006.256.25NANANARate of compensation increase3.503.504.002.75 – 4.202.75 – 4.602.75 – 4.10
Health care cost trend rate:  Assumed for next year6.006.507.00———Ultimate5.005.005.00———Year when rate will reach ultimate201720172017
———The following table presents the effect of a one-percentage-
point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate on 

JPMorgan Chase’s accumulated postretirement benefit 

obligation. As of December 31, 2015, there was no material 

effect on total service and interest cost.
Year ended December 31, 2015
(in millions)1-Percentagepointincrease1-PercentagepointdecreaseEffect on accumulated postretirementbenefit obligation$8$(7)
JPMorgan Chase’s U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB 
plan expense is sensitive to the expected long-term rate of 

return on plan assets and the discount rate. With all other 

assumptions held constant, a 25-basis point decline in the 

expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets would 

result in an aggregate increase of approximately $39 

million in 2016 U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan 

expense. A 25-basis point decline in the discount rate for 

the U.S. plans would result in an increase in 2016 U.S. 

defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expense of 

approximately an aggregate $31 million and an increase in 

the related benefit obligations of approximately an 

aggregate $296 million. A 25-basis point decrease in the 

interest crediting rate for the U.S. defined benefit pension 

plan would result in a decrease in 2016 U.S. defined benefit 

pension expense of approximately $35 million and a 

decrease in the related PBO of approximately $145 million. 

A 25-basis point decline in the discount rates for the non-

U.S. plans would result in an increase in the 2016 non-U.S. 

defined benefit pension plan expense of approximately $17 

million.Notes to consolidated financial statements
228JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportInvestment strategy and asset allocation
The Firm’s U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets are held 

in trust and are invested in a well-diversified portfolio of 

equity and fixed income securities, cash and cash 

equivalents, and alternative investments (e.g., hedge funds, private equity, real estate and real assets). Non-U.S. defined 

benefit pension plan assets are held in various trusts and 

are also invested in well-diversified portfolios of equity, 

fixed income and other securities. Assets of the Firm’s COLI 

policies, which are used to partially fund the U.S. OPEB 

plan, are held in separate accounts of an insurance 

company and are allocated to 
investments intended to 
replicate equity and fixed income indices.
The investment policy for the Firm’s U.S. defined benefit 
pension plan assets is to optimize the risk-return 

relationship as appropriate to the needs and goals of the 

plan using a global portfolio of various asset classes 

diversified by market segment, economic sector, and issuer. 

Assets are managed by a combination of internal and 

external investment managers. Periodically the Firm 

performs a comprehensive analysis on the U.S. defined 

benefit pension plan asset allocations, incorporating 

projected asset and liability data, which focuses on the 

short- and long-term impact of the asset allocation on 

cumulative pension expense, economic cost, present value 

of contributions and funded status. As the U.S. defined 

benefit pension plan is overfunded, the investment strategy 

for this plan was adjusted in 2013 to provide for greater 

liquidity.
 Currently, approved asset allocation ranges are: 

U.S. equity 0% to 45%, international equity 0% to 40%, 

debt securities 0% to 80%, hedge funds 0% to 5%, real 

estate 0% to 10%, real assets 0% to 10% and private 

equity 0% to 20%. Asset allocations are not managed to a 

specific target but seek to shift asset class allocations within 

these stated ranges. Investment strategies incorporate the 

economic outlook and the anticipated implications of the 
macroeconomic environment on the various asset classes 
while maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity for the 

plan. The Firm regularly reviews the asset allocations and 

asset managers, as well as other factors that impact the 

portfolio, which is rebalanced when deemed necessary.
For the U.K. defined benefit pension plans, which represent 
the most significant of the non-U.S. defined benefit pension 

plans, the assets are invested to maximize returns subject 

to an appropriate level of risk relative to the plans’ 

liabilities. In order to reduce the volatility in returns relative 

to the plans’ liability profiles, the U.K. defined benefit 

pension plans’ largest asset allocations are to debt 

securities of appropriate durations. Other assets, mainly 

equity securities, are then invested for capital appreciation, 

to provide long-term investment growth. Similar to the U.S. 

defined benefit pension plan, asset allocations and asset 
managers for the U.K. plans are reviewed regularly and the 

portfolios are rebalanced when deemed necessary.
Investments held by the Plans include financial instruments 
which are exposed to various risks such as interest rate, 

market and credit risks. Exposure to a concentration of 

credit risk is mitigated by the broad diversification of both 

U.S. and non-U.S. investment instruments. Additionally, the 

investments in each of the common/collective trust funds 

and registered investment companies are further diversified 

into various financial instruments. As of December 31, 

2015, assets held by the Firm’s U.S. and non-U.S. defined 

benefit pension and OPEB plans do not include JPMorgan 

Chase common stock, except through indirect exposures 

through investments in third-party stock-index funds. The 

plans hold investments in funds that are sponsored or 

managed by affiliates of JPMorgan Chase in the amount of 

$3.2 billion and $3.7 billion for U.S. plans and $1.2 billion 

and $1.4 billion for non-U.S. plans, as of December 31, 

2015 and 2014, respectively.
The following table presents the weighted-average asset 
allocation of the fair values of total plan assets at December 31 for 
the years indicated, as well as the 
respective app
roved range/target 
allocation by asset category, for 
the Firm’s U.S. and non-
U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.
 Defined benefit pension plans  U.S.Non-U.S.OPEB plans
(c)
 Target% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assets
December 31,Allocation20152014Allocation
20152014Allocation
20152014Asset category         
Debt securities(a)0-80%32%31%59%
60%61%30-70%
50%50%Equity securities0-85
484640
383830-70
5050Real estate0-10
44—1————Alternatives
(b)0-3516191
11———Total100%100%100%100%
100%100%100%
100%100%(a) Debt securities primarily include corporate debt, U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. government, and mortgage-backed securities.

(b) Alternatives primarily include limited partnerships.

(c) Represents the U.S. OPEB plan only, as the U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report229Fair value measurement of the plans’ assets and liabilities
For information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of level 1, 2, and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the 

valuation methods employed by the Firm, see Note 3.
Pension and OPEB plan assets and liabilities measured at fair value U.S. defined benefit pension plansNon-U.S. defined benefit pension plans
(g)
December 31, 2015(in millions)Level 1Level 2Level 3
Total fairvalueLevel 1Level 2
Total fairvalueCash and cash equivalents$112$—$—$112$114$1$115
Equity securities4,826524,8331,0021571,159
Common/collective trust funds
(a)339——339
135—135
Limited partnerships
(b)53——53
———Corporate debt securities
(c)
—1,61921,621
—758758
U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. government debtsecurities580108—688
212504716
Mortgage-backed securities—67168
226
28Derivative receivables—104—104
—209209
Other(d)1,760275342,321
25753310
Total assets measured at fair value$7,670$1,930$539$10,139
(e)$1,722$1,708$3,430
Derivative payables$—$(35)$—$(35)$—$(153)$(153)
Total liabilities measured at fair value$—$(35)$—$(35)
(f)$—$(153)$(153)
 U.S. defined benefit pension plansNon-U.S. defined benefit pension plans
(g)
December 31, 2014

(in millions)Level 1Level 2Level 3
Total fairvalueLevel 1Level 2
Total fairvalueCash and cash equivalents$87$—$—$87$128$1$129
Equity securities5,2862045,3101,0191691,188

Common/collective trust funds
(a)345——345
112—112
Limited partnerships
(b)70——70
———Corporate debt securities
(c)
—1,45491,463
—724724
U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. government debtsecurities446161—607
235540775
Mortgage-backed securities173175
277
79Derivative receivables—114—114
—258258
Other(d)2,031273372,395
28358341
Total assets measured at fair value$8,266$1,849$351$10,466
(e)$1,779$1,827$3,606
Derivative payables$—$(23)$—$(23)$—$(139)$(139)

Total liabilities measured at fair value$—$(23)$—$(23)
(f)$—$(139)$(139)
Note: Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for certain investments where the Firm measures fair va
lue using the net asset value per share 
(or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and excluded them from the fair value hierarchy. Accordingly, such investments are
 not included within these tables. At 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair values of these investments, which include certain limited partnerships and common/collect
ive trust funds, were $4.1 billion and 
$4.3 billion, respectively, of U.S. defined benefit pension plan investments, and $234 million and $251 million, respectively, 
of non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan 
investments. Of these investments $1.3 billion and $3.0 billion, r
espectively, of U.S. defined benefit pension plan investments had been previously classified in level 2 
and level 3, respectively, and $251 million of non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan investments had been previously classified
 in level 2 at December 31, 2014. The 

guidance was required to be applied retrospectively, and accordingly, prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(a) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, common/collective trust funds primarily included a mix of short-term investment funds, domestic and international equity 
investments (including index) and real estate funds.
(b) Unfunded commitments to purchase limited partnership investments for the plans were $895 million and $1.2 billion for 2015 
and 2014, respectively.
(c) Corporate debt securities include debt securities of U.S. and non-U.S. corporations.
(d) Other consists of money markets funds, exchange-traded funds and participating and non-participating annuity contracts. Mon
ey markets funds and exchange-
traded funds are primarily classified within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy given they are valued using market observable 
prices. Participating and non-
participating annuity contracts are classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy due to lack of market mechanisms for 
transferring each policy and surrender 
restrictions.
(e) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, excluded U.S. defined benefit pension plan receivables for investments sold and dividends an
d interest receivables of $74 million 
and $106 million, respectively.
(f) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, excluded $106 million and $241 million, respectively, of U.S. defined benefit pension plan p
ayables for investments purchased; 
and $17 million and $16 million, respectively, of other liabilities. 
(g) There were zero assets or liabilities classified as level 3 for the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.
The Firm’s U.S. OPEB plan was partially funded with COLI policies of $1.9 billion at both December 31, 2015 and 2014, which 

were classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
230JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportChanges in level 3 fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputsYear ended December 31, 2015
(in millions)Fair value,January 1,2015Actual return on plan assetsPurchases, salesand settlements,netTransfers inand/or outof level 3Fair value,December 31,2015Realizedgains/(losses)Unrealizedgains/(losses)U.S. defined benefit pension plans     
Equities$4$—$(2)$—$—$2
Corporate debt securities9——(7)—2
Mortgage-backed securities1————1
Other337—197——534
Total U.S. defined benefit pension plans$351$—$195$(7)$—$539
OPEB plans
COLI$1,903$—$(48)$—$—$1,855
Total OPEB plans$1,903$—$(48)$—$—$1,855
Year ended December 31, 2014
(in millions)Fair value,January 1,2014Actual return on plan assetsPurchases, salesand settlements,netTransfers inand/or outof level 3Fair value,December 31,2014Realizedgains/(losses)Unrealizedgains/(losses)U.S. defined benefit pension plans     
Equities$4$—$—$—$—$4
Corporate debt securities7(2)24(2)9

Mortgage-backed securities———1—1

Other430—(93)——337

Total U.S. defined benefit pension plans$441$(2)$(91)$5$(2)$351
OPEB plans
COLI$1,749$—$154$—$—$1,903

Total OPEB plans$1,749$—$154$—$—$1,903
Year ended December 31, 2013
(in millions)Fair value,January 1,2013Actual return on plan assetsPurchases, salesand settlements,netTransfers inand/or outof level 3Fair value,December 31,2013Realizedgains/(losses)Unrealizedgains/(losses)U.S. defined benefit pension plans     
Equities$4$—$—$—$—$4
Corporate debt securities1———67

Mortgage-backed securities——————

Other420—10——430

Total U.S. defined benefit pension plans$425$—$10$—$6$441
OPEB plans
COLI$1,554$—$195$—$—$1,749

Total OPEB plans$1,554$—$195$—$—$1,749
Estimated future benefit payments 
The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid, which include the effect of expected future service, for the
 
years indicated. The OPEB medical and life insurance payments are net of expected retiree contributions.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)U.S. defined benefitpension plansNon-U.S. definedbenefit pension plansOPEB before MedicarePart D subsidyMedicare Part Dsubsidy2016$762$107$68$1
2017798110661

2018927119631

2019966123611

20201,009129591

Years 2021–20254,4097222594
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report231Note 10 – Employee stock-based incentives
Employee stock-based awards
In 2015, 2014 and 2013, JPMorgan Chase granted long-

term stock-based awards to certain employees under its 

Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended and restated 

effective May 19, 2015 (“LTIP”). Under the terms of the 

LTIP, as of December 31, 2015, 93 million shares of 

common stock were available for issuance through 

May 2019. The LTIP is the only active plan under which the 

Firm is currently granting 
stock-based incentive awards. In 
the following discussion, the LTIP, plus prior Firm plans and 

plans assumed as the result of acquisitions, are referred to 

collectively as the “LTI Plans,” and such plans constitute the 

Firm’s stock-based incentive plans.
Restricted stock units (“RSUs”) are awarded at no cost to 
the recipient upon their grant. Generally, RSUs are granted 

annually and vest at a rate of 50% after two years and 

50% after three years and are converted into shares of 

common stock as of the vesting date. In addition, RSUs 

typically include full-career eligibility provisions, which 

allow employees to continue to vest upon voluntary 

termination, subject to post-employment and other 

restrictions based on age or service-related requirements. 

All RSUs awards are subject to forfeiture until vested and 

contain clawback provisions that may result in cancellation 

under certain specified circumstances. RSUs entitle the 

recipient to receive cash payments equivalent to any 

dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the 

period the RSUs are outstanding and, as such, are 

considered participating securities as discussed in Note 24.
Under the LTI Plans, stock options and stock appreciation 
rights (“SARs”) have generally been granted with an 

exercise price equal to the fair value of JPMorgan Chase’s 

common stock on the grant date. The Firm periodically 

grants employee stock options to individual employees. 

There were no material grants of stock options or SARs

in 2015 and 2014. Grants of SARs in 2013 become 

exercisable ratably over five years (i.e., 20% per year) and 

contain clawback provisions similar to RSUs. The 2013 

grants of SARs contain full-career eligibility provisions. 

SARs generally expire ten years after the grant date. 
The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense for 

each tranche of each award as if it were a separate award 

with its own vesting date. Generally, for each tranche 

granted, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-

line basis from the grant date until the vesting date of the 

respective tranche, provided that the employees will not 

become full-career eligible during the vesting period. For 

awards with full-career eligibility provisions and awards 

granted with no future substantive service requirement, the 

Firm accrues the estimated value of awards expected to be 

awarded to employees as of the grant date without giving 

consideration to the impact of post-employment 

restrictions. For each tranche granted to employees who 

will become full-career eligible during the vesting period, 

compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis 

from the grant date until the earlier of the employee’s full-

career eligibility date or the vesting date of the respective 

tranche.
The Firm’s policy for issuing shares upon settlement of 
employee stock-based incentive awards is to issue either 

new shares of common stock or treasury shares. During 

2015, 2014 and 2013, the Firm settled all of its employee 

stock-based awards by issuing treasury shares.
In January 2008, the Firm awarded to its Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer up to 2 million SARs. The terms of 

this award are distinct from, and more restrictive than, 

other equity grants regularly awarded by the Firm. On July 

15, 2014, the Compensation & Management Development 

Committee and Board of Directors determined that all 

requirements for the vesting of the 2 million SAR awards 

had been met and thus, the awards became exercisable. The 

SARs, which will expire in January 2018, have an exercise 

price of $39.83 (the price of JPMorgan Chase common 

stock on the date of grant). The expense related to this 

award was dependent on changes in fair value of the SARs 

through July 15, 2014 (the date when the vested number of 

SARs were determined), and the cumulative expense was 

recognized ratably over the service period, which was 

initially assumed to be five years but, effective in the first 

quarter of 2013, had been extended to six and one-half 

years. The Firm recognized $3 million and $14 million in 

compensation expense in 2014 and 2013, respectively, for 

this award.Notes to consolidated financial statements
232JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportRSUs, employee stock options and SARs activity
Compensation expense for RSUs is measured based on the number of shares granted multiplied by the stock price at the grant 

date, and for employee stock options and SARs, is measured at the grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model. 

Compensation expense for these awards is recognized in net 
income as described previously. The following table summarizes 
JPMorgan Chase’s RSUs, employee stock options and SARs activity for 2015.
RSUsOptions/SARsYear ended December 31, 2015Number of shares
Weighted-
average grant
date fair value
Number ofawardsWeighted-averageexercisepriceWeighted-average 
remaining 
contractual life 
(in years)
Aggregateintrinsicvalue(in thousands, except weighted-average data, andwhere otherwise stated)Outstanding, January 1100,568$47.8159,195$45.00
Granted36,09656.3110764.41
Exercised or vested(47,709)41.64(14,313)40.44
Forfeited(3,648)54.17(943)43.04
CanceledNANA(580)278.93
Outstanding, December 3185,307$54.6043,466$43.514.6$1,109,411
Exercisable, December 31NANA31,85343.854.0832,929
The total fair value of RSUs that vested during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, was $2.8 billion, $3.2 
billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. The weighted-average grant date per share fair value of stock options and SARs granted 

during the year ended December 31, 2013, was $9.58. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, was $335 million, $539 million and $507 million, respectively.
Compensation expense
The Firm recognized the following noncash compensation 

expense related to its various employee stock-based 

incentive plans in its Consolidated statements of income.
Year ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Cost of prior grants of RSUs and SARsthat are amortized over theirapplicable vesting periods$1,109
$1,371$1,440
Accrual of estimated costs of stock-based awards to be granted in future
periods including those to full-career
eligible employees878819779
Total noncash compensation expenserelated to employee stock-based
incentive plans$1,987
$2,190$2,219
At December 31, 2015, approximately $688 million 
(pretax) of compensation expense related to unvested 

awards had not yet been charged to net income. That cost is 

expected to be amortized into compensation expense over a 

weighted-average period of 0.9 years. The Firm does not 

capitalize any compensation expense related to share-based 

compensation awards to employees.
Cash flows and tax benefits
Income tax benefits related to stock-based incentive 

arrangements recognized in the Firm’s Consolidated 

statements of income for the years ended December 31, 

2015, 2014 and 2013, were $746 million, $854 million 

and $865 million, respectively.
The following table sets forth the cash received from the 

exercise of stock options under all stock-based incentive 

arrangements, and the actual income tax benefit realized 

related to tax deductions from the exercise of the stock 

options.Year ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Cash received for options exercised$20
$63$166
Tax benefit realized
(a)6410442
(a) The tax benefit realized from dividends or dividend equivalents paid on equity-
classified share-based payment awards that are charged to retained earnings are 
recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital and included in the pool of excess 

tax benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies on share-based payment awards.
Valuation assumptions
The following table presents the assumptions used to value 

employee stock options and SARs granted during the year 

ended December 31, 2013, under the Black-Scholes 

valuation model. There were no material grants of stock 

options or SARs for the years ended December 31, 2015 

and 2014.Year ended December 31,2013Weighted-average annualized valuation assumptions Risk-free interest rate1.18%Expected dividend yield2.66Expected common stock price volatility28Expected life (in years)6.6The expected dividend yield is determined using forward-

looking assumptions. The expected volatility assumption is 

derived from the implied volatility of JPMorgan Chase’s 

stock options. The expected life assumption is an estimate 

of the length of time that an employee might hold an option 

or SAR before it is exercised or canceled, and the 

assumption is based on the Firm’s historical experience.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report233Note 11 – Noninterest expense
For details on noninterest expense, see Consolidated 
statements of income on page 176. Included within other expense is the following:
 Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Legal expense$2,969
$2,883$11,143
Federal Deposit InsuranceCorporation-related (“FDIC”)
expense1,2271,0371,496
Note 12 – Securities
Securities are classified as trading, AFS or held-to-maturity 
(“HTM”). Securities classified as trading assets are 

discussed in Note 3. Predominantly all of the Firm’s AFS and 

HTM investment securities (the “investment securities 

portfolio”) are held by Treasury and CIO in connection with 

its asset-liability management objectives. At December 31, 

2015, the investment securities portfolio consisted of debt 

securities with an average credit rating of
 AA+ (based upon 
external ratings where available, and where not available, 

based primarily upon internal ratings which correspond to 

ratings as defined by S&P and Moody’s). AFS securities are 

carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets. 

Unrealized gains and losses, after any applicable hedge 

accounting adjustments, are reported as net increases or 

decreases to accumulated other comprehensive income/

(loss). The specific identification method is used to 
determine realized gains and losses on AFS securities, 

which are included in securities gains/(losses) on the 

Consolidated statements of income. HTM debt securities, 

which management has the intent and ability to hold until 

maturity, are carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated 

balance sheets. For both AFS and HTM debt securities, 

purchase discounts or premiums are generally amortized 

into interest income over the contractual life of the security. 
During 2014, the Firm transferred U.S. government agency 
mortgage-backed securities and obligations of U.S. states 

and municipalities with a fair value of $19.3 billion from 

AFS to HTM. These securities were transferred at fair value, 

and the transfer was a non-cash transaction. AOCI included 

net pretax unrealized losses of $9 million on the securities 

at the date of transfer. The transfer reflected the Firm’s 

intent to hold the securities to maturity in order to reduce 

the impact of price volatility on AOCI and certain capital 

measures under Basel III. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
234JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe amortized costs and estimated fair values of the investment securities portfolio were as follows for the dates indicated. 
20152014December 31, (in millions)AmortizedcostGrossunrealizedgainsGrossunrealizedlossesFair 
value
AmortizedcostGrossunrealizedgainsGrossunrealizedlossesFair 
value
Available-for-sale debt securitiesMortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies
(a) $53,689$1,483$106$55,066
$63,089$2,302$72$65,319
Residential:Prime and Alt-A7,46240577,445
5,59578295,644
Subprime2107—217
67714—691
Non-U.S.19,6293411319,957
43,5501,010—44,560
Commercial22,99015024322,897
20,6874381721,108
Total mortgage-backed securities103,9802,021419105,582
133,5983,842118137,322
U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)11,202—16611,036
13,603561413,645
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities31,3282,2452333,550
27,8412,2431630,068
Certificates of deposit2821—283
1,103111,103
Non-U.S. government debt securities35,8648534136,676
51,4921,2722152,743
Corporate debt securities12,46414217012,436
18,1583982418,532
Asset-backed securities:Collateralized loan obligations31,1465219131,007
30,22914718230,194
Other9,125721009,097
12,4421841112,615
Total available-for-sale debt securities235,3915,3861,110239,667
288,4668,143387296,222
Available-for-sale equity securities2,06720—2,087
2,51317—2,530
Total available-for-sale securities237,4585,4061,110241,754
290,9798,160387298,752
Total held-to-maturity securities
(b)$49,073$1,560$46$50,587
$49,252$1,902$—$51,154
(a) Includes total U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations with fair values of $42.3 billion and $59.3 billion at Dece
mber 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, 
which were predominantly mortgage-related.
(b) As of December 31, 2015, consists of mortgage backed securities (“MBS”) issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises wit
h an amortized cost of $30.8 billion, 
MBS issued by U.S. government agencies with an amortized cost of $5.5 billion and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities
 with an amortized cost of $12.8 
billion. As of December 31, 2014, consists of MBS issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises with an amortized cost of $35
.3 billion, MBS issued by U.S. 
government agencies with an amortized cost of $3.7 billion and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities with an amortized 
cost of $10.2 billion.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report235Securities impairment 
The following tables present the fair value and gross unrealized losses for the investment securities portfolio by aging catego
ry 
at December 31, 2015 and 2014. Securities with gross unrealized lossesLess than 12 months12 months or more
December 31, 2015 (in millions)Fair valueGross unrealizedlossesFair value
Gross unrealizedlossesTotal fairvalueTotal grossunrealized lossesAvailable-for-sale debt securitiesMortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies$13,002$95$697$11$13,699$106
Residential:Prime and Alt-A5,1475123865,38557
Subprime——————
Non-U.S.2,0211216712,18813
Commercial13,779239658414,437243
Total mortgage-backed securities33,9493971,7602235,709419

U.S. Treasury and government agencies
10,998166——10,998166
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities
1,6761820551,88123
Certificates of deposit
——————
Non-U.S. government debt securities
3,26726367153,63441
Corporate debt securities
3,198125848454,046170
Asset-backed securities:
Collateralized loan obligations15,3406710,69212426,032191
Other4,284601,005405,289100
Total available-for-sale debt securities72,71285914,87725187,5891,110

Available-for-sale equity securities——————
Held-to-maturity securities3,76346——3,76346
Total securities with gross unrealized losses$76,475$905$14,877$251$91,352$1,156
Securities with gross unrealized lossesLess than 12 months12 months or more
December 31, 2014 (in millions)Fair value
Gross unrealizedlossesFair value
Gross unrealizedlossesTotal fairvalueTotal grossunrealized lossesAvailable-for-sale debt securities
Mortgage-backed securities:U.S. government agencies$1,118$5$4,989$67$6,107$72

Residential:Prime and Alt-A1,84010405192,24529

Subprime——————

Non-U.S.——————
Commercial4,803159224,89517
Total mortgage-backed securities7,761305,4868813,247118
U.S. Treasury and government agencies8,41214——8,41214

Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities1,4051513011,53516

Certificates of deposit1,0501——1,0501

Non-U.S. government debt securities4,4334906175,33921

Corporate debt securities2,492228022,57224

Asset-backed securities:Collateralized loan obligations13,909769,01210622,921182

Other2,25811——2,25811
Total available-for-sale debt securities41,72017315,61421457,334387
Available-for-sale equity securities——————

Held-to-maturity securities——————

Total securities with gross unrealized losses$41,720$173$15,614$214$57,334$387
Notes to consolidated financial statements
236JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportGross unrealized losses The Firm has recognized the unrealized losses on securities 

it intends to sell. As of December 31, 2015, the Firm does 

not intend to sell any securities with a loss position in AOCI, 

and it is not likely that the Firm will be required to sell these 

securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. 

Except for the securities for which credit losses have been 

recognized in income, the Firm believes that the securities 

with an unrealized loss in AOCI are not other-than-

temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2015. 
Other-than-temporary impairment 
AFS debt and equity securities and HTM debt securities in 

unrealized loss positions are analyzed as part of the Firm’s 

ongoing assessment of other-than-temporary impairment 

(“OTTI”). For most types of debt securities, the Firm 

considers a decline in fair value to be other-than-temporary 

when the Firm does not expect to recover the entire 

amortized cost basis of the security. For beneficial interests 

in securitizations that are rated below “AA” at their 

acquisition, or that can be contractually prepaid or 

otherwise settled in such a way that the Firm would not 

recover substantially all of its reco
rded investment, the Firm 
considers an impairment to be other than temporary when 

there is an adverse change in expected cash flows. For AFS 

equity securities, the Firm considers a decline in fair value 

to be other-than-temporary if it is probable that the Firm 

will not recover its cost basis. 
Potential OTTI is considered using a variety of factors, 
including the length of time and extent to which the market 

value has been less than cost; adverse conditions 

specifically related to the industry, geographic area or 

financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a 

security; payment structure of the security; changes to the 

rating of the security by a rating agency; the volatility of the 

fair value changes; and the Firm’s intent and ability to hold 

the security until recovery. 
For AFS debt securities, the Firm recognizes OTTI losses in 
earnings if the Firm has the intent to sell the debt security, 

or if it is more likely than not that the Firm will be required 

to sell the debt security before recovery of its amortized 

cost basis. In these circumstances the impairment loss is 

equal to the full difference between the amortized cost 

basis and the fair value of the securities. For debt securities 

in an unrealized loss position that the Firm has the intent 

and ability to hold, the expected cash flows to be received 

from the securities are evaluated to determine if a credit 

loss exists. In the event of a credit loss, only the amount of 

impairment associated with the credit loss is recognized in 

income. Amounts relating to factors other than credit losses 

are recorded in OCI. 
The Firm’s cash flow evaluations 
take into account the factors noted above and expectations of relevant market 
and economic data as of the end of the reporting period. 

For securities issued in a securitization, the Firm estimates 

cash flows considering underlying loan-level data and 

structural features of the securitization, such as 

subordination, excess spread, overcollateralization or other 

forms of credit enhancement, and compares the losses 

projected for the underlying collateral (“pool losses”) 
against the level of credit enhancement in the securitization 

structure to determine whether these features are sufficient 

to absorb the pool losses, or whether a credit loss exists. 

The Firm also performs other analyses to support its cash 

flow projections, such as first-loss analyses or stress 

scenarios. For equity securities, OTTI losses are recognized in earnings 
if the Firm intends to sell the security. In other cases the 

Firm considers the 
relevant factors 
noted above, as well as the Firm’s intent and ability to retain its investment for a 

period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated 

recovery in market value, and whether evidence exists to 

support a realizable value equal to or greater than the cost 

basis. Any impairment loss on an equity security is equal to 

the full difference between the cost basis and the fair value 

of the security. 
Securities gains and losses The following table presents realized gains and losses and 

OTTI from AFS securities that were recognized in income. 
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)201520142013
Realized gains$351
$314$1,302
Realized losses(127)(233)(614)
OTTI losses(22)(4)(21)
Net securities gains202
77667
OTTI lossesCredit losses recognized in income(1)(2)(1)
Securities the Firm intends to sell
(a)(21)(2)(20)
Total OTTI losses recognized inincome$(22)
$(4)$(21)
(a) Excludes realized losses on securities sold of $5 million, $3 million and $12 
million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 
respectively that had been previously reported as an OTTI loss due to the 

intention to sell the securities.
Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired 

debt securities 
The following table presents a rollforward for the years 

ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, of the credit 

loss component of OTTI losses that have been recognized in 

income, related to AFS debt securities that the Firm does 

not intend to sell. Year ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Balance, beginning of period$3$1$522
Additions:Newly credit-impaired securities121Losses reclassified from othercomprehensive income on previouslycredit-impaired securities———Reductions:Sales and redemptions of credit-
impaired securities——(522)
Balance, end of period$4
$3$1
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report237Contractual maturities and yields 
The following table presents the amortized cost and estimated fair value at December 31, 2015, of JPMorgan Chase’s 

investment securities portfolio by contractual maturity. 
By remaining maturity
December 31, 2015

(in millions)Due in one year or less
Due after oneyear throughfive yearsDue after five yearsthrough 10 yearsDue after 
10 years
(c)
TotalAvailable-for-sale debt securitiesMortgage-backed securities
(a)Amortized cost$2,415$9,728$6,562$85,275$103,980
Fair value2,4219,8866,75686,519105,582

Average yield
(b)1.48%1.86%
3.15%3.08%2.93%
U.S. Treasury and government agencies
(a)Amortized cost$—$
—$10,069$1,133$11,202
Fair value——9,9321,10411,036
Average yield
(b)—%—%0.31%0.48%0.33%
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities
Amortized cost$184$754$1,520$28,870$31,328
Fair value1877741,60030,98933,550
Average yield
(b)5.21%3.50%
5.57%6.68%6.54%
Certificates of deposit
Amortized cost$230$52$
—$
—$282
Fair value23152——283Average yield
(b)8.66%3.28%
—%
—%7.68%
Non-U.S. government debt securities
Amortized cost$6,126$11,177$16,575$1,986$35,864
Fair value6,42211,429
16,7472,07836,676
Average yield
(b)3.11%1.84%
1.06%0.67%1.63%
Corporate debt securities
Amortized cost$2,761$7,175$2,385$143$12,464
Fair value2,7767,1792,34713412,436
Average yield
(b)2.87%2.32%
3.09%4.46%2.61%
Asset-backed securities
Amortized cost$39$442$20,501$19,289$40,271
Fair value4044920,42119,19440,104
Average yield
(b)0.71%1.72%
1.79%1.84%1.81%
Total available-for-sale debt securities
Amortized cost$11,755$29,328$57,612$136,696$235,391
Fair value12,07729,769
57,803140,018239,667
Average yield
(b)2.85%2.00%
1.63%3.61%2.89%
Available-for-sale equity securities
Amortized cost$—$
—$
—$2,067$2,067
Fair value———2,0872,087Average yield
(b)—%—%—%0.30%0.30%
Total available-for-sale securities
Amortized cost$11,755$29,328$57,612$138,763$237,458
Fair value12,07729,769
57,803142,105241,754
Average yield
(b)2.85%2.00%
1.63%3.56%2.87%
Total held-to-maturity securities
Amortized cost$51$
—$
931$48,091$49,073
Fair value50—97649,56150,587
Average yield
(b)4.42%—%
5.01%3.98%4.00%
(a) U.S. government-sponsored enterprises were the only issuers whose securities exceeded 10% of JPMorgan Chase’s total stockho
lders’ equity at 
December 31, 2015.
(b) Average yield is computed using the effective yield of each security owned at the end of the period, weighted based on the 
amortized cost of each 
security. The effective yield considers the contractual coupon, amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, and the ef
fect of related hedging 
derivatives. Taxable-equivalent amounts are used where applicable. The effective yield excludes unscheduled principal prepaymen
ts; and accordingly, 
actual maturities of securities may differ from their contractual or expected maturities as certain securities may be prepaid.
(c) Includes securities with no stated maturity. Substantially all of the Firm’s residential mortgage-backed securities and col
lateralized mortgage obligations 
are due in 10 years or more, based on contractual maturity. The estimated weighted-average life, which reflects anticipated future prepayments, is 
approximately five years for agency residential mortgage-backed securities, two years for agency residential collateralized mor
tgage obligations and four 
years for nonagency residential collateralized mortgage obligations. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
238JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 13 – Securities financing activities
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements, repurchase 
agreements, securities borrowed transactions and securities 

loaned transactions (collectively, “securities financing 

agreements”) primarily to finance the Firm’s inventory 

positions, acquire securities to cover short positions, 

accommodate customers’ financing needs, and settle other 

securities obligations. 
Securities financing agreements are treated as 
collateralized financings on the Firm’s Consolidated balance 

sheets. Resale and repurchase agreements are generally 

carried at the amounts at which the securities will be 
subsequently sold or repurchased. Securities borrowed and 

securities loaned transactions are generally carried at the 

amount of cash collateral advanced or received. Where 

appropriate under applicable accounting guidance, resale 

and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty are 

reported on a net basis. For further discussion of the 

offsetting of assets and liabilities, see Note 1. Fees received 

and paid in connection with securities financing agreements 

are recorded in interest income and interest expense on the 

Consolidated statements of income. 
The Firm has elected the fair value option for certain 
securities financing agreements. For further information 

regarding the fair value option, see Note 4. The securities 

financing agreements for which the fair value option has 

been elected are reported within securities purchased 

under resale agreements, securities loaned or sold under 

repurchase agreements, and securities borrowed on the 

Consolidated balance sheets. Generally, for agreements 

carried at fair value, current-period interest accruals are 

recorded within interest income and interest expense, with 

changes in fair value reported in principal transactions 

revenue. However, for financial instruments containing 

embedded derivatives that would be separately accounted 

for in accordance with accounting guidance for hybrid 

instruments, all changes in fair value, including any interest 

elements, are reported in principal transactions revenue. 
Secured financing transactions expose the Firm to credit 
and liquidity risk. To manage these risks, the Firm monitors 

the value of the underlying securities (predominantly high-

quality securities collateral, including government-issued 

debt and agency MBS) that it has received from or provided 

to its counterparties compared to the value of cash 

proceeds and exchanged collateral, and either requests 

additional collateral or returns securities or collateral when 

appropriate. Margin levels are initially established based 

upon the counterparty, the type of underlying securities, 

and the permissible collateral, and are monitored on an 

ongoing basis. 
In resale agreements and securities borrowed transactions, 

the Firm is exposed to credit risk to the extent that the 

value of the securities received is less than initial cash 

principal advanced and any collateral amounts exchanged. 

In repurchase agreements and securities loaned 

transactions, credit risk exposure arises to the extent that 

the value of underlying securities exceeds the value of the 

initial cash principal advanced, and any collateral amounts 

exchanged. 
Additionally, the Firm typically enters into master netting 
agreements and other similar arrangements with its 

counterparties, which provide for the right to liquidate the 

underlying securities and any collateral amounts exchanged 

in the event of a counterparty default. It is also the Firm’s 

policy to take possession, where possible, of the securities 

underlying resale agreements and securities borrowed 

transactions. For further information regarding assets 

pledged and collateral received in securities financing 

agreements, see Note 30. 
As a result of the Firm’s credit risk mitigation practices with 
respect to resale and securities borrowed agreements as 

described above, the Firm did not hold any reserv
es for credit impairment with respect to these agreements as of 

December 31, 2015 and 2014. Certain prior period amounts for securities purchased under 
resale agreements and securities borrowed, as well as 

securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities 

loaned, have been revised to conform with the current 

period presentation. These revisions had no impact on the 

Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets or its results of 

operations. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report239The following table presents as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the gross and net securities purchased under resale 
agreements and securities borrowed. Securities purchased under resale agreements have been presented on the Consolidated 

balance sheets net of securities sold under repurchase agreements where the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion 

with respect to the master netting agreement, and where the other relevant criteria have been met. Where such a legal opinion 

has not been either sought or obtained, the securities purchased under resale agreements are not eligible for netting and are 

shown separately in the table below. Securities borrowed are 
presented on a gross basis on the Consolidated balance sheets. 
20152014December 31, (in millions)Gross assetbalanceAmountsnetted on theConsolidatedbalancesheetsNet assetbalanceGross assetbalanceAmountsnetted on theConsolidatedbalancesheetsNet assetbalanceSecurities purchased under resale agreementsSecurities purchased under resale agreements withan appropriate legal opinion$365,805$(156,258)$209,547
$347,142$(142,719)$204,423
Securities purchased under resale agreements wherean appropriate legal opinion has not been eithersought or obtained2,3432,343
10,59810,598
Total securities purchased under resale agreements$368,148$(156,258)$211,890
(a)$357,740$(142,719)$215,021
(a)Securities borrowed$98,721
NA$98,721
(b)(c)$110,435
NA$110,435
(b)(c)(a) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, included securities purchased under resale agreements of $23.1 billion and $28.6 billion, re
spectively, accounted for at fair value.
(b) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, included securities borrowed of $395 million and $992 million, respectively, accounted for a
t fair value.
(c) Included $31.3 billion and $35.3 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, of securities borrowed where an appropriate legal opinion has not been 
either sought or obtained with respect to the master netting agreement. 
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, regarding the securities purchased under resale 
agreements and securities borrowed for which an appropriate legal opinion has been obtained with respect to the master 

netting agreement. The below table excludes information r
elated to resale agreements and securities borrowed where such a 
legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained. 
20152014Amounts not nettable on 
the Consolidated balance 
sheets(a)Amounts not nettable on 
the Consolidated balance 
sheets(a)December 31, (in millions)Net assetbalanceFinancial 
instruments(b)CashcollateralNet exposure
Net assetbalanceFinancial 
instruments(b)CashcollateralNet exposure
Securities purchased underresale agreements with anappropriate legal opinion$209,547$(206,423)$(351)$2,773
$204,423$(201,375)$(246)$2,802
Securities borrowed$67,453$(65,081)$—$2,372
$75,113$(72,730)$—$2,383
(a) For some counterparties, the sum of the financial instruments and cash collateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance 
sheets may exceed the net 
asset balance. Where this is the case the total amounts reported in these two columns are limited to the balance of the net rev
erse repurchase agreement 
or securities borrowed asset with that counterparty. As a result a net exposure amount is reported even though the Firm, on an 
aggregate basis for its 
securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed, has received securities collateral with a total fair valu
e that is greater than the 
funds provided to counterparties.
(b) Includes financial instrument collateral received, repurchase liabilities and securities loaned liabilities with an appropr
iate legal opinion with respect to the 
master netting agreement; these amounts are not presented net on the Consolidated balance sheets because other U.S. GAAP nettin
g criteria are not met.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
240JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table presents as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the gross and net securities sold under repurchase 
agreements and securities loaned. Securities sold under repurchase agreements have been presented on the Consolidated 

balance sheets net of securities purchased under resale agreements where the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion 

with respect to the master netting agreement, and where the other relevant criteria have been met. Where such a legal opinion 

has not been either sought or obtained, the securities sold under repurchase agreements are not eligible for netting and are 

shown separately in the table below. Securities loaned are presented on a gross basis on the Consolidated balance sheets. 
20152014December 31, (in millions)GrossliabilitybalanceAmountsnetted on theConsolidatedbalancesheetsNet liabilitybalanceGrossliabilitybalanceAmountsnetted on theConsolidatedbalancesheetsNet liabilitybalanceSecurities sold under repurchase agreementsSecurities sold under repurchase agreements with anappropriate legal opinion$277,415$(156,258)$121,157
$290,529$(142,719)$147,810
Securities sold under repurchase agreements where 
an appropriate legal opinion has not been either 
sought or obtained(a)12,62912,62921,99621,996
Total securities sold under repurchase agreements$290,044$(156,258)$133,786
(c)$312,525$(142,719)$169,806
(c)Securities loaned(b)$22,556
NA$22,556
(d)(e)$25,927
NA$25,927
(d)(e)(a) Includes repurchase agreements that are not subject to a master netting agreement but do provide rights to collateral.
(b) Included securities-for-securities lending transactions of $4.4 billion and $4.1 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, res
pectively, accounted for at fair 
value, where the Firm is acting as lender. These amounts are presented within other liabilities in the Consolidated balance she
ets.(c) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, included securities sold under repurchase agreements of $3.5 billion and $3.0 billion, respe
ctively, accounted for at fair 
value.
(d) There were no securities loaned accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

(e) Included $45 million and $271 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, of securities loaned where an appropriate legal opinion has not 
been either sought or obtained with respect to the master netting agreement.
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, regarding the securities sold under repurchase 

agreements and securities loaned for which an appropriate legal opinion has been obtained with respect to the master netting 

agreement. The below table excludes information related to repurchase agreements and securities loaned where such a legal 

opinion has not been either sought or obtained. 20152014Amounts not nettable on 
the Consolidated balance 
sheets(a)Amounts not nettable on 
the Consolidated balance 
sheets(a)December 31, (in millions)Net liabilitybalanceFinancial 
instruments(b)CashcollateralNet amount
(c)
Net liabilitybalanceFinancial 
instruments(b)CashcollateralNet amount
(c)
Securities sold underrepurchase agreementswith an appropriate legal
opinion$121,157$(117,825)$(1,007)$2,325
$147,810$(145,732)$(497)$1,581
Securities loaned$22,511$(22,245)$—$266
$25,656$(25,287)$—$369
(a) For some counterparties the sum of the financial instruments and cash collateral not nettable on the Consolidated balance s
heets may exceed the net 
liability balance. Where this is the case the total amounts reported in these two columns are limited to the balance of the net
 repurchase agreement or 
securities loaned liability with that counterparty.
(b) Includes financial instrument collateral transferred, reverse repurchase assets and securities borrowed assets with an appropriate legal opinion with 
respect to the master netting agreement; these amounts are not presented net on the Consolidated balance sheets because other U
.S. GAAP netting 
criteria are not met.
(c) Net amount represents exposure of counterparties to the Firm.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report241Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accountin
g guidance, which requires enhanced disclosures with respect to the 
types of financial assets pledged in secured financing transactions and the remaining contractual maturity of the secured 
financing transactions; the following tables present this information as of December 31, 2015.
Gross liability balanceDecember 31, 2015 (in millions)Securities sold underrepurchase agreementsSecurities loaned
Mortgage-backed securities$12,790$—
U.S. Treasury and government agencies154,3775
Obligations of U.S. states and municipalities1,316—
Non-U.S. government debt80,1624,426
Corporate debt securities21,28678
Asset-backed securities4,394—
Equity securities15,71918,047
Total$290,044$22,556
Remaining contractual maturity of the agreementsOvernight andcontinuousGreater than 
90 days
December 31, 2015 (in millions)Up to 30 days30 – 90 daysTotal
Total securities sold under repurchase agreements$114,595$100,082$29,955$45,412$290,044
Total securities loaned8,32070879312,73522,556
Transfers not qualifying for sale accounting 
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm held $7.5 billion 

and $13.8 billion, respectively, of financial assets for which 

the rights have been transferred to third parties; however, 

the transfers did not qualify as a sale in accordance with 

U.S. GAAP. These transfers have been recognized as 

collateralized financing transactions. The transferred assets 

are recorded in trading assets and loans, and the 

corresponding liabilities are predominantly recorded in 

other borrowed funds on the Consolidated balance sheets. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
242JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 14 – Loans
Loan accounting framework
The accounting for a loan depends on management’s 

strategy for the loan, and on whether the loan was credit-

impaired at the date of acquisition. The Firm accounts for 

loans based on the following categories:
• Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment (i.e., 
“retained”), other than purchased credit-impaired 
(“PCI”) loans• Loans held-for-sale
• Loans at fair value

• PCI loans held-for-investment
The following provides a detailed accounting discussion of 
these loan categories:Loans held-for-investment (other than PCI loans)

Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment, other 

than PCI loans, are measured at the principal amount 

outstanding, net of the following: allowance for loan losses; 

charge-offs; interest applied to principal (for loans 

accounted for on the cost recovery method); unamortized 

discounts and premiums; and net deferred loan fees or 

costs. Credit card loans also include billed finance charges 

and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.
Interest income
Interest income on performing loans held-for-investment, 

other than PCI loans, is accrued and recognized as interest 

income at the contractual rate of interest. Purchase price 

discounts or premiums, as well as net deferred loan fees or 

costs, are amortized into interest income over the life of the 

loan to produce a level rate of return. 
Nonaccrual loans Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest 

has been suspended. Loans (other than credit card loans 

and certain consumer loans insured by U.S. government 

agencies) are placed on nonaccrual status and considered 

nonperforming when full payment of principal and interest 

is in doubt, or when principal and interest has been in 

default for a period of 90 days or more, unless the loan is 

both well-secured and in the process of collection. A loan is 

determined to be past due when the minimum payment is 

not received from the borrower by the contractually 

specified due date or for certain loans (e.g., residential real 

estate loans), when a monthly payment is due and unpaid 

for 30 days or more. Finally, collateral-dependent loans are 

typically maintained on nonaccrual status. 
On the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, all interest accrued but not collected is reversed against 

interest income. In addition, the amortization of deferred 

amounts is suspended. Interest income on nonaccrual loans 

may be recognized as cash interest payments are received 

(i.e., on a cash basis) if the recorded loan balance is 

deemed fully collectible; however, if there is doubt 

regarding the ultimate collectibility of the recorded loan 

balance, all interest cash receipts are applied to reduce the 
carrying value of the loan (the cost recovery method). For 

consumer loans, application of this policy typically results in 

the Firm recognizing interest income on nonaccrual 

consumer loans on a cash basis. 
A loan may be returned to accrual status when repayment is 
reasonably assured and there has been demonstrated 

performance under the terms of the loan or, if applicable, 

the terms of the restructured loan. 
As permitted by regulatory guidance, credit card loans are 
generally exempt from being placed on nonaccrual status; 

accordingly, interest and fees related to credit card loans 

continue to accrue until the loan is charged off or paid in 

full. However, the Firm separately establishes an allowance 

for the estimated uncollectible portion of accrued interest 

and fee income on credit card loans. The allowance is 

established with a charge to interest income and is reported 

as an offset to loans. 
Allowance for loan losses The allowance for loan losses represents the estimated 

probable credit losses inherent in the held-for-investment 

loan portfolio at the balance sheet date. Changes in the 

allowance for loan losses are recorded in the provision for 

credit losses on the Firm’s Consolidated statements of 

income. See Note 15 for further information on the Firm’s 

accounting policies for the allowance for loan losses. 
Charge-offs 
Consumer loans, other than risk-rated business banking, 

risk-rated auto and PCI loans, are generally charged off or 

charged down to the net realizable value of the underlying 

collateral (i.e., fair value less costs to sell), with an offset to 

the allowance for loan losses, upon reaching specified 

stages of delinquency in accordance with standards 

established by the Federal Financial Institutions 

Examination Council (“FFIEC”). Residential real estate loans, 

non-modified credit card loans and scored business banking 

loans are generally charged off at 180 days past due. Auto 

and student loans are charged off no later than 120 days 

past due, and modified credit card loans are charged off at 

120 days past due. 
Certain consumer loans will be charged off earlier than the 
FFIEC charge-off standards in certain circumstances as 

follows: 
• A charge-off is recognized when a loan is modified in a 
troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”) if the loan is 
determined to be collateral-dependent. A loan is 

considered to be collateral-dependent when repayment 

of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the 

underlying collateral, rather than by cash flows from the 

borrower’s operations, income or other resources. 
• Loans to borrowers who have experienced an event 
(e.g., bankruptcy) that suggests a loss is either known or 

highly certain are subject to accelerated charge-off 

standards. Residential real estate and auto loans are 

charged off when the loan becomes 60 days past due, or 

sooner if the loan is determined to be collateral-
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report243dependent. Credit card and scored business banking 
loans are charged off within 60 days of receiving 

notification of the bankruptcy filing or other event. 

Student loans are generally charged off when the loan 

becomes 60 days past due after receiving notification of 

a bankruptcy. 
• Auto loans are written down to net realizable value upon 
repossession of the automobile and after a redemption 

period (i.e., the period during which a borrower may 

cure the loan) has passed. 
Other than in certain limited circumstances, the Firm 

typically does not recognize charge-offs on government-

guaranteed loans. 
Wholesale loans, risk-rated business banking loans and risk-
rated auto loans are charged off when it is highly certain 

that a loss has been realized, including situations where a 

loan is determined to be both impaired and collateral-

dependent. The determination of whether to recognize a 

charge-off includes many factors, including the 

prioritization of the Firm’s claim in bankruptcy, expectations 

of the workout/restructuring of the loan and valuation of 

the borrower’s equity or the loan collateral. 
When a loan is charged down to the estimated net realizable 
value, the determination of the fair value of the collateral 

depends on the type of collateral (e.g., securities, real 

estate). In cases where the collateral is in the form of liquid 

securities, the fair value is based on quoted market prices 

or broker quotes. For illiquid securities or other financial 

assets, the fair value of the collateral is estimated using a 

discounted cash flow model. For residential real estate loans, collateral values are based 
upon external valuation sources. When it becomes likely 

that a borrower is either unable or unwilling to pay, the 

Firm obtains a broker’s price opinion of the home based on 

an exterior-only valuation (“exterior opinions”), which is 

then updated at least every six months thereafter. As soon 

as practicable after the Firm receives the property in 

satisfaction of a debt 
(e.g., by taking legal title or physical possession), generally, either through foreclosure or upon 

the execution of a deed in lieu of foreclosure transaction 

with the borrower, the Firm obtains an appraisal based on 

an inspection that includes the interior of the home 
(“interior appraisals”). Exterior opinions and interior 

appraisals are discounted based upon the Firm’s experience 

with actual liquidation values as compared with the 

estimated values provided by exterior opinions and interior 

appraisals, considering state- and product-specific factors. 
For commercial real estate loans, collateral values are 
generally based on appraisals from internal and external 

valuation sources. Collateral values are typically updated 

every six to twelve months, either by obtaining a new 

appraisal or by performing an internal analysis, in 

accordance with the Firm’s policies. The Firm also considers 

both borrower- and market-specific factors, which may 

result in obtaining appraisal updates or broker price 

opinions at more frequent intervals. 
Loans held-for-sale 

Held-for-sale loans are measured at the lower of cost or fair 

value, with valuation changes recorded in noninterest 

revenue. For consumer loans, the valuation is performed on 

a portfolio basis. For wholesale loans, the valuation is 

performed on an individual loan basis. 
Interest income on loans held-for-sale is accrued and 
recognized based on the contractual rate of interest. 
Loan origination fees or costs and purchase price discounts 
or premiums are deferred in a contra loan account until the 

related loan is sold. The deferred fees and discounts or 

premiums are an adjustment to the basis of the loan and 

therefore are included in the periodic determination of the 

lower of cost or fair value adjustments and/or the gain or 

loss recognized at the time of sale. 
Held-for-sale loans are subject to the nonaccrual policies 
described above. Because held-for-sale loans are recognized at the lower of 
cost or fair value, the Firm’s allowance for loan losses and 

charge-off policies do not apply to these loans. 
Loans at fair value 

Loans used in a market-making strategy or risk managed on 

a fair value basis are measured at fair value, with changes 

in fair value recorded in noninterest revenue. 
For these loans, the earned current contractual interest 
payment is recognized in interest income. Changes in fair 

value are recognized in noninterest revenue. Loan 

origination fees are recognized upfront in noninterest 

revenue. Loan origination costs are recognized in the 

associated expense category as incurred. 
Because these loans are recognized at fair value, the Firm’s 
allowance for loan losses and charge-off policies do not 

apply to these loans. See Note 4 for further information on the Firm’s elections of 
fair value accounting under the fair value option. See Note 3 

and Note 4 for further information on loans carried at fair 

value and classified as trading assets. 
PCI loans 
PCI loans held-for-investment are initially measured at fair 

value. PCI loans have evidence of credit deterioration since 

the loan’s origination date and therefore it is probable, at 

acquisition, that all contractually required payments will not 

be collected. Because PCI loans are initially measured at fair 

value, which includes an estimate of future credit losses, no 

allowance for loan losses related to PCI loans is recorded at 

the acquisition date. See page 255 of this Note for 

information on accounting for PCI loans subsequent to their 

acquisition. Notes to consolidated financial statements
244JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportLoan classification changes 
Loans in the held-for-investment portfolio that management 

decides to sell are transferred to the held-for-sale portfolio 

at the lower of cost or fair value on the date of transfer. 

Credit-related losses are charged against the allowance for 

loan losses; non-credit related losses such as those due to 

changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates 

are recognized in noninterest revenue. 
In the event that management decides to retain a loan in 
the held-for-sale portfolio, the loan is transferred to the 

held-for-investment portfolio at 
the lower of cost or fair value on the date of transfer. These loans are subsequently 

assessed for impairment based on the Firm’s allowance 

methodology. For a further discussion of the methodologies 

used in establishing the Firm’s allowance for loan losses, 

see Note 15.Loan modifications 
The Firm seeks to modify certain loans in conjunction with 

its loss-mitigation activities. Through the modification, 

JPMorgan Chase grants one or more concessions to a 

borrower who is experiencing financial difficulty in order to 

minimize the Firm’s economic loss, avoid foreclosure or 

repossession of the collateral, and to ultimately maximize 

payments received by the Firm from the borrower. The 

concessions granted vary by program and by borrower-

specific characteristics, and may include interest rate 

reductions, term extensions, payment deferrals, principal 

forgiveness, or the acceptance of equity or other assets in 

lieu of payments. 
Such modifications are accounted for and reported as TDRs. 
A loan that has been modified in a TDR is generally 

considered to be impaired until it matures, is repaid, or is 

otherwise liquidated, regardless of whether the borrower 

performs under the modified terms. In certain limited 

cases, the effective interest rate applicable to the modified 

loan is at or above the current market rate at the time of 

the restructuring. In such circumstances, and assuming that 

the loan subsequently performs under its modified terms 

and the Firm expects to collect all contractual principal and 

interest cash flows, the loan is disclosed as impaired and as 

a TDR only during the year of the modification; in 

subsequent years, the loan is not disclosed as an impaired 

loan or as a TDR so long as repayment of the restructured 

loan under its modified terms is reasonably assured.
Loans, except for credit card loans, modified in a TDR are 

generally placed on nonaccrual status, although in many 

cases such loans were already on nonaccrual status prior to 

modification. These loans may be returned to performing 

status (the accrual of interest is resumed) if the following 

criteria are met: (a) the borrower has performed under the 

modified terms for a minimum of six months and/or six 

payments, and (b) the Firm has an expectation that 

repayment of the modified loan is reasonably assured based 

on, for example, the borrower’s debt capacity and level of 

future earnings, collateral values, loan-to-value (“LTV”) 

ratios, and other current market considerations. In certain 

limited and well-defined circumstances in which the loan is 

current at the modification date, such loans are not placed 

on nonaccrual status at the time of modification. 
Because loans modified in TDRs are considered to be 
impaired, these loans are measured for impairment using 

the Firm’s established asset-specific allowance 

methodology, which considers the expected re-default rates 

for the modified loans. A loan modified in a TDR generally 

remains subject to the asset-specific allowance 

methodology throughout its remaining life, regardless of 

whether the loan is performing and has been returned to 

accrual status and/or the loan has been removed from the 

impaired loans disclosures (i.e., loans restructured at 

market rates). For further discussion of the methodology 

used to estimate the Firm’s asset-specific allowance, see 

Note 15.Foreclosed property 
The Firm acquires property from borrowers through loan 

restructurings, workouts, and foreclosures. Property 

acquired may include real property 
(e.g., residential real 
estate, land, and buildings) and commercial and personal 

property (e.
g., automobiles, aircraft,
 railcars, and ships). 
The Firm recognizes foreclosed property upon receiving 

assets in satisfaction of a 
loan (e.g., by taking legal title or 
physical possession). For loans collateralized by real 

property, the Firm generally recognizes the asset received 

at foreclosure sale or upon the execution of a deed in lieu of 

foreclosure transaction with the borrower. Foreclosed 

assets are reported in other assets on the Consolidated 

balance sheets and initially recognized at fair value less 

costs to sell. Each quarter the fair value of the acquired 

property is reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, to the lower 

of cost or fair value. Subsequent adjustments to fair value 

are charged/credited to noninterest revenue. Operating 

expense, such as real estate taxes and maintenance, are 

charged to other expense.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report245Loan portfolio 
The Firm’s loan portfolio is divided into three portfolio segments, which are the same segments used by the Firm to determine 

the allowance for loan losses: Consumer, excluding credit card; Credit card; and Wholesale. Within each portfolio segment, the 

Firm monitors and assesses the credit risk in the following classes of loans, based on the risk characteristics of each loan cl
ass: Consumer, excluding 
credit card
(a)Credit cardWholesale(c)
Residential real estate – excluding PCI
• Home equity – senior lien
• Home equity – junior lien

• Prime mortgage, including

     option ARMs
• Subprime mortgage
Other consumer loans• Auto
(b)• Business banking
(b)• Student and other
Residential real estate – PCI
• Home equity

• Prime mortgage

• Subprime mortgage

• Option ARMs• Credit card loans• Commercial and industrial
• Real estate

• Financial institutions

• Government agencies

• Other(d)(a) Includes loans held in CCB, prime mortgage and home equity loans held in AM and prime mortgage loans held in Corporate.
(b) Includes certain business banking and auto dealer risk-rated loans that apply the wholesale methodology for determining the
 allowance for loan losses; 
these loans are managed by CCB, and therefore, for consistency in presentation, are included with the other consumer loan class
es.(c) Includes loans held in CIB, CB, AM and Corporate. Excludes prime mortgage and home equity loans held in AM and prime mortgage loans held in 
Corporate. Classes are internally defined and may not align with regulatory definitions.
(d) Includes loans to: individuals; SPEs; holding companies; and private education and civic organizations. For more informatio
n on exposures to SPEs, see 
Note 16.The following tables summarize the Firm’s loan balances by portfolio segment. 
December 31, 2015Consumer, excludingcredit cardCredit card
(a)WholesaleTotal(in millions)Retained$344,355$131,387$357,050$832,792
(b)Held-for-sale
466761,1041,646
At fair value
——2,8612,861
Total$344,821$131,463$361,015$837,299
December 31, 2014Consumer, excludingcredit cardCredit card
(a)WholesaleTotal(in millions)Retained$294,979$128,027$324,502$747,508
(b)Held-for-sale
3953,0213,8017,217At fair value
——2,6112,611Total
$295,374$131,048$330,914$757,336
(a) Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.
(b) Loans (other than PCI loans and those for which the fair value option has been elected) are presented net of unearned incom
e, unamortized discounts and 
premiums, and net deferred loan costs. These amounts were not material as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
246JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following tables provide information about the carrying value of retained loans purchased, sold and reclassified to held-
for-sale during the periods indicated. These tables exclude loans recorded at fair value.
 The Firm manages its exposure to 
credit risk on an ongoing basis. Selling loans is one way that the Firm reduces its credit exposures. 
2015Year ended December 31,(in millions)Consumer, excluding 
credit cardCredit cardWholesaleTotal
Purchases$5,279
(a)(b)$—$2,154$7,433
Sales5,099—9,18814,287
Retained loans reclassified to held-for-sale1,514796422,235
2014Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer, excluding 
credit cardCredit cardWholesaleTotal
Purchases$7,434
(a)(b)$—$885$8,319
Sales6,655—
(c)7,38114,036Retained loans reclassified to held-for-sale1,1903,0395814,8102013Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer, excluding 
credit cardCredit cardWholesaleTotal
Purchases$7,616
(a)(b)$328$697$8,641
Sales4,845—4,2329,077
Retained loans reclassified to held-for-sale1,2613095,6417,211
(a) Purchases predominantly represent the Firm’s voluntary repurchase of certain delinquent loans from loan pools as permitted by Ginnie Mae guidelines. 
The Firm typically elects to repurchase these delinquent loans as it continues to service them and/or manage the foreclosure pr
ocess in accordance with 
applicable requirements of Ginnie Mae, the Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”), Rural Housing Services (“RHS”) and/or the U.S. Department of 
Veterans Affairs (“VA”).
(b) Excludes purchases of retained loans sourced through the correspondent origination channel and underwritten in accordance w
ith the Firm’s standards. 
Such purchases were $50.3 billion, $15.1 billion and $5.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respect
ively.
(c) Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with current period presentation.
The following table provides information about gains and losses, including lower of cost or fair value adjustments, on loan sal
es by portfolio segment. 
Year ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Net gains/(losses) on sales of loans (including lower of cost or fair value adjustments)
(a)Consumer, excluding credit card$305
$341$313
Credit card1(241)3
Wholesale34101(76)
Total net gains on sales of loans (including lower of cost or fair value adjustments)$340
$201$240
(a) Excludes sales related to loans accounted for at fair value.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report247Consumer, excluding credit card, loan portfolio
Consumer loans, excluding credit card loans, consist 
primarily of residential mortgages, home equity loans and 

lines of credit, auto loans, business banking loans, and 

student and other loans, with a focus on serving the prime 

consumer credit market. The portfolio also includes home 

equity loans secured by junior liens, prime mortgage loans 

with an interest-only payment period, and certain payment-

option loans originated by Washington Mutual that may 

result in negative amortization. 
The table below provides information about retained 
consumer loans, excluding credit card, by class.
December 31, (in millions)
20152014Residential real estate – excluding PCI
Home equity:Senior lien$14,848
$16,367
Junior lien30,71136,375Mortgages:Prime, including option ARMs162,549104,921Subprime3,6905,056Other consumer loans
Auto60,25554,536Business banking21,20820,058Student and other10,09610,970Residential real estate – PCI

Home equity14,98917,095Prime mortgage8,89310,220Subprime mortgage3,2633,673Option ARMs13,85315,708Total retained loans$344,355
$294,979
Delinquency rates are a primary credit quality indicator for 
consumer loans. Loans that are more than 30 days past due 

provide an early warning of borrowers who may be 

experiencing financial difficulties and/or who may be 

unable or unwilling to repay the loan. As the loan continues 

to age, it becomes more clear that the borrower is likely 

either unable or unwilling to pay. In the case of residential 

real estate loans, late-stage delinquencies (greater than 

150 days past due) are a strong indicator of loans that will 

ultimately result in a foreclosure or similar liquidation 

transaction. In addition to delinquency rates, other credit 

quality indicators for consumer loans vary based on the 

class of loan, as follows: 
• For residential real estate loans, including both non-PCI 
and PCI portfolios, the current estimated LTV ratio, or 
the combined LTV ratio in the case of junior lien loans, is 

an indicator of the potential loss severity in the event of 

default. Additionally, LTV or combined LTV can provide 
insight into a borrower’s continued willingness to pay, as 

the delinquency rate of high-LTV loans tends to be 

greater than that for loans where the borrower has 

equity in the collateral. The geographic distribution of 

the loan collateral also provides insight as to the credit 

quality of the portfolio, as factors such as the regional 

economy, home price changes and specific events such 

as natural disasters, will affect credit quality. The 

borrower’s current or “refreshed” FICO score is a 

secondary credit-quality indicator for certain loans, as 

FICO scores are an indication of the borrower’s credit 

payment history. Thus, a loan to a borrower with a low 

FICO score (660 or below) is considered to be of higher 

risk than a loan to a borrower with a high FICO score. 

Further, a loan to a borrower with a high LTV ratio and a 

low FICO score is at greater risk of default than a loan to 

a borrower that has both a high LTV ratio and a high 

FICO score.
• For scored auto, scored business banking and student 
loans, geographic distribution is an indicator of the 

credit performance of the portfolio. Similar to 

residential real estate loans, geographic distribution 

provides insights into the portfolio performance based 

on regional economic activity and events.
• Risk-rated business banking and auto loans are similar 
to wholesale loans in that the primary credit quality 

indicators are the risk rating that is assigned to the loan 

and whether the loans are considered to be criticized 

and/or nonaccrual. Risk ratings are reviewed on a 

regular and ongoing basis by Credit Risk Management 

and are adjusted as necessary for updated information 

about borrowers’ ability to fulfill their obligations. For 

further information about risk-rated wholesale loan 

credit quality indicators, see pages 259–260 of this 

Note. 
Residential real estate — excluding PCI loans 

The following table provides information by class for 

residential real estate — excluding retained PCI loans in the 

consumer, excluding credit card, portfolio segment. 
The following factors should be considered in analyzing 
certain credit statistics applicable to the Firm’s residential 

real estate — excluding PCI loans portfolio: (i) junior lien 

home equity loans may be fully charged off when the loan 

becomes 180 days past due, and the value of the collateral 

does not support the repayment of the loan, resulting in 

relatively high charge-off rates for this product class; and 

(ii) the lengthening of loss-mitigation timelines may result 

in higher delinquency rates for loans carried at the net 

realizable value of the collateral that remain on the Firm’s 

Consolidated balance sheets.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
248JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportResidential real estate – excluding PCI loansHome equity
(i)MortgagesDecember 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
Senior lienJunior lienPrime, including option 
ARMs(i)SubprimeTotal residential real estate– excluding PCI2015201420152014201520142015201420152014Loan delinquency
(a)Current
$14,278
$15,730
$30,021
$35,575
$153,323
$93,951
$3,140
$4,296
$200,762
$149,552
30–149 days past due
2382754705333,6664,0913764894,7505,388150 or more days past due
3323622202675,5606,8791742716,2867,779Total retained loans$14,848
$16,367
$30,711
$36,375
$162,549
$104,921
$3,690
$5,056
$211,798
$162,719
% of 30+ days past due to total 
retained loans
(b)3.84%
3.89%
2.25%
2.20%
0.71%
1.42%
14.91%15.03%1.40%
2.27%
90 or more days past due and 
government guarantee
d(c)
————6,0567,544——6,0567,544Nonaccrual loans
8679381,3241,5901,7522,1907511,0364,6945,754Current estimated LTV ratios
(d)(e)(f)(g)
Greater than 125% and refreshedFICO scores:Equal to or greater than 660$42
$37
$123
$252
$56
$97
$2$4$223
$390
Less than 66036296565721228109171101% to 125% and refreshed FICOscores:Equal to or greater than 66050831,2942,10524947825761,6182,742Less than 66023404116511902821012077251,18080% to 100% and refreshed FICOscores:Equal to or greater than 6603114664,2265,8493,0132,6861463827,6969,383Less than 6601422061,2671,6475978383997032,4053,394Less than 80% and refreshed FICOscores:Equal to or greater than 66011,72112,58817,92719,435140,94282,3501,2991,624171,889115,997Less than 6601,9422,1842,9923,3265,2804,8721,5171,79511,73112,177No FICO/LTV available6147572,4423,0451,4691,1361892374,7145,175U.S. government-guaranteed————10,68812,110——10,68812,110Total retained loans
$14,848
$16,367
$30,711
$36,375
$162,549
$104,921
$3,690
$5,056
$211,798
$162,719
Geographic regionCalifornia$2,072
$2,232
$6,873
$8,144
$46,745
$28,133
$518
$718
$56,208
$39,227
New York2,5832,8056,5647,68520,94116,55052167730,60927,717Illinois1,1891,3062,2312,60511,3796,65414520714,94410,772Texas1,5811,8459511,0878,9864,93514217711,6608,044Florida7978611,6121,9236,7635,1064146329,5868,522New Jersey6476541,9432,2335,3953,3611722278,1576,475Washington4425061,0091,2164,0972,410791095,6274,241Arizona8159271,3281,5953,0811,805741125,2984,439Michigan6507367008481,8661,203791213,2952,908Ohio1,0141,1506387781,166615811122,8992,655All other(h)3,0583,3456,8628,26152,13034,1491,4651,96463,51547,719Total retained loans
$14,848
$16,367
$30,711
$36,375
$162,549
$104,921
$3,690
$5,056
$211,798
$162,719
(a) Individual delinquency classifications include mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies as follows: current inclu
ded $2.6 billion and $2.6 billion; 30–149 days past 
due included $3.2 billion and $3.5 billion; and 150 or more days past due included $4.9 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31
, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
(b) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, Prime, including option ARMs loans excluded mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agenci
es of $8.1 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively. These amounts have been excluded from nonaccrual loans based upon the government guarantee.
(c) These balances, which are 90 days or more past due, were excluded from nonaccrual loans as the loans are guaranteed by U.S 
government agencies. Typically the principal 
balance of the loans is insured and interest is guaranteed at a specified reimbursement rate subject to meeting agreed-upon ser
vicing guidelines. At December 31, 2015 and 
2014, these balances included $3.4 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively, of loans that are no longer accruing interest based on the agreed-upon servicing guidelines. For the 
remaining balance, interest is being accrued at the guaranteed reimbursement rate. There were no loans not guaranteed by U.S. government agencies that are 90 or more days 
past due and still accruing at December 31, 2015 and 2014.
(d) Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current propert
y values are estimated, at a minimum, quarterly, 
based on home valuation models using nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporating actual data to th
e extent available and forecasted data where 
actual data is not available. These property values do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral values; as such, th
e resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and 
should be viewed as estimates. Effective December 31, 2015, the current estimated LTV ratios reflect updates to the nationally 
recognized home price index valuation estimates 
incorporated into the Firm’s home valuation models. The prior period ratios have been revised to conform with these updates in the home price index.
(e) Junior lien represents combined LTV, which considers all available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the 
property. All other products are presented without 
consideration of subordinate liens on the property.
(f) Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower’s most recent credit score, which is obtained by the Firm on at least a quart
erly basis.(g) The current period current estimated LTV ratios disclosures have been updated to reflect where either the FICO score or estimated property value is unavailable. The prior 
period amounts have been revised to conform with the current presentation.
(h) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, included mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies of $10.7 billion and $12.1 billi
on, respectively.
(i) Includes residential real estate loans to private banking clients in AM, for which the primary credit quality indicators ar
e the borrower’s financial position and LTV.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report249The following table represent the Firm’s delinquency statistics for junior lien home equity loans and lines as of December 31, 
2015 and 2014.Total loansTotal 30+ day delinquency rateDecember 31,2015201420152014(in millions, except ratios)HELOCs:
(a)Within the revolving period
(b)$17,050$25,252
1.57%1.75%
Beyond the revolving period11,2527,979
3.103.16HELOANs2,4093,144
3.033.34Total$30,711$36,375
2.25%2.20%
(a) These HELOCs are predominantly revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to a loan with a 2
0-year amortization period, but also 
include HELOCs originated by Washington Mutual that allow interest-only payments beyond the revolving period.
(b) The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent per
mitted by law when borrowers are 
experiencing financial difficulty or when the collateral does not support the loan amount.
Home equity lines of credit (“HELOCs”) beyond the 
revolving period and home equity loans (“HELOANs”) have 

higher delinquency rates than do HELOCs within the 

revolving period. That is primarily because the fully-

amortizing payment that is generally required for those 

products is higher than the minimum payment options
available for HELOCs within the revolving period. The higher 

delinquency rates associated with amortizing HELOCs and 

HELOANs are factored into the loss estimates produced by 

the Firm’s delinquency roll-rate methodology, which 

estimates defaults based on the current delinquency status 

of a portfolio.
Impaired loans
The table below sets forth information about the Firm’s residential real estate impaired loans, excluding PCI loans. These loan
s are considered to be impaired as they have been modified in a TDR. All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific 

allowance as described in Note 15.Home equityMortgagesTotal residential
 real estate 
– excluding PCI
December 31, 
(in millions)Senior lienJunior lienPrime, including 
option ARMsSubprime2015201420152014201520142015201420152014Impaired loansWith an allowance$557
$552
$736
$722
$3,850
$4,949
$1,393
$2,239
$6,536
$8,462
Without an allowance
(a)4915495745829761,1964716392,5122,966Total impaired loans
(b)(c)
$1,048
$1,101
$1,310
$1,304
$4,826
$6,145
$1,864
$2,878
$9,048
$11,428
Allowance for loan lossesrelated to impaired loans$53
$84
$85
$147
$93
$127
$15
$64
$246
$422
Unpaid principal balance of impaired loans
(d)1,3701,4512,5902,6036,2257,8132,8574,20013,04216,067Impaired loans on 
nonaccrual status
(e)
5816286396321,2871,5596709313,1773,750(a) Represents collateral-dependent residential mortgage loans that are charged off to the fair value of the underlying collateral less cost to sell. The Firm reports, in 
accordance with regulatory guidance, residential real estate loans that have been discharged under Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not
 reaffirmed by the borrower 
(“Chapter 7 loans”) as collateral-dependent nonaccrual TDRs, regardless of their delinquency status. At December 31, 2015, Chapter 7 residential real estate loans 
included approximately 17% of senior lien home equity, 9% of junior lien home equity, 18% of prime mortgages, including option ARMs, and 15% of subprime 

mortgages that were 30 days or more past due.
(b) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, $3.8 billion and $4.9 billion, respectively, of loans modified subsequent to repurchase from
 Government National Mortgage 
Association (“Ginnie Mae”) in accordance with the standards of the appropriate government agency (i.e., FHA, VA, RHS) are not i
ncluded in the table above. When 
such loans perform subsequent to modification in accordance with Ginnie Mae guidelines, they are generally sold back into Ginni
e Mae loan pools. Modified loans that do not re-perform become subject to foreclosure.
(c) Predominantly all residential real estate impaired loans, excluding PCI loans, are in the U.S.

(d) Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The unpaid principal balance differs fro
m the impaired loan balances due to 
various factors, including charge-offs, net deferred loan fees or costs; and unamortized discounts or premiums on purchased loa
ns.(e) As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, nonaccrual loans included $2.5 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, of TDRs for which 
the borrowers were less than 90 days 
past due. For additional information about loans modified in a TDR that are 
on nonaccrual status refer to the Loan accounting f
ramework on pages 242–244 of this 
Note.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
250JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe following table presents average impaired loans and the related interest income reported by the Firm.
Year ended December 31,Average impaired loansInterest income on
impaired loans
(a)Interest income on impaired 
loans on a cash basis(a)(in millions)201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
Home equitySenior lien$1,077
$1,122$1,151
$51
$55$59
$35
$37$40
Junior lien1,2921,3131,297
778282
505355
Mortgages  Prime, including option ARMs5,3976,7307,214
217262280
465459
Subprime2,3003,4443,798
131182200
415155
Total residential real estate – excluding PCI$10,066
$12,609$13,460
$476
$581$621
$172
$195$209
(a) Generally, interest income on loans modified in TDRs is recognized on a cash basis until such time as the borrower has made
 a minimum of six payments 
under the new terms.Loan modifications 
Modifications of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI 

loans, are generally accounted for and reported as TDRs. 

There were no additional commitments to lend to 

borrowers whose residential real estate loans, excluding PCI 

loans, have been modified in TDRs. 
The following table presents new TDRs reported by the 

Firm.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)201520142013
Home equity:Senior lien$108
$110$210
Junior lien293211388
Mortgages:Prime, including option ARMs209287770
Subprime58124319
Total residential real estate –excluding PCI$668
$732$1,687
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report251Nature and extent of modifications
The U.S. Treasury’s Making Home Affordable (“MHA”) programs, as well as the Firm’s proprietary modification programs, 

generally provide various concessions to financially troubled borrowers including, but not limited to, interest rate reductions
, term or payment extensions and deferral of principal and/or interest payments that would otherwise have been required 

under the terms of the original agreement.
The following table provides information about how residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, were modified under the 
Firm’s loss mitigation programs during the periods presented. This table excludes Chapter 7 loans where the sole concession 

granted is the discharge of debt.
Year endedDec. 31,Home equityMortgages
Total residential real estate
 – excluding PCI
Senior lienJunior lien
Prime, including 
option ARMsSubprime
201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
Number ofloans
approved for
a trial
modification1,3459391,719
2,588626884
1,1031,0522,846
1,6082,0564,233
6,6444,6739,682
Number ofloans
permanently
modified1,0961,1711,765
3,2002,8135,040
1,4952,5074,356
1,6503,1415,364
7,4419,63216,525
Concession 
granted:
(a)Interest rate
reduction75%53%70%
63%84%88%
72%43%73%
71%
47%72%
68%58%77%
Term or
payment
extension866776
908380
805173
825356
866370
Principal
and/or
interest
deferred321612
192324
341930
211213
241821
Principal
forgiveness43638
82232
245138
315348
164139
Other(b)——————91023
131014
5611
(a) Represents concessions granted in permanent modifications as a percentage of the number of loans permanently modified. The 
sum of the percentages exceeds 
100% because predominantly all of the modifications include more than one type of concession. A significant portion of trial modifications include interest rate 
reductions and/or term or payment extensions.
(b) Represents variable interest rate to fixed interest rate modifications.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
252JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportFinancial effects of modifications and redefaults
The following table provides information about the financial effects of the various concessions granted in modifications of 

residential real estate loans, excluding PCI, under the Firm’s loss mitigation programs and about redefaults of certain loans 

modified in TDRs for the periods presented. Because the specific types and amounts of concessions offered to borrowers 

frequently change between the trial modification and the permanent modification, the following table presents only the 

financial effects of permanent modifications. This table also excludes Chapter 7 loans where the sole concession granted is the 

discharge of debt.
Year ended 
December 31,
(in millions, except 

weighted-average 

data and number 
of loans)Home equityMortgages
Total residential real estate– excluding PCISenior lienJunior lien
Prime, including 
option ARMsSubprime
201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
Weighted-averageinterest rate of
loans with
interest rate
reductions –
before TDR5.69%6.38%6.35%
4.93%4.81%5.05%
5.03%4.82%5.28%
6.67%7.16%7.33%
5.51%5.61%5.88%
Weighted-averageinterest rate of
loans with
interest rate
reductions – after
TDR2.703.033.23
2.172.002.14
2.552.692.77
3.153.373.52
2.642.782.92
Weighted-averageremaining
contractual term
(in years) of
loans with term
or payment
extensions –
before TDR171719
181920
252525
242424
222323
Weighted-averageremaining
contractual term
(in years) of
loans with term
or payment
extensions – after
TDR323031
363534
373737
363635
363636
Charge-offsrecognized upon
permanent
modification$1$2$7
$3$25$70
$9$9$16
$2$3$5
$15
$39$98
Principal deferred1357141124
4139129
171943
8574203
Principal forgiven21430
42151
3483206
3289218
72207505
Balance of loans that redefaulted 

within one year of permanent 
modification(a)$14
$19$26
$7$10$20
$75
$121$164
$58
$93$106
$154
$243$316
(a) Represents loans permanently modified in TDRs that experienced a payment default in the periods presented, and for which the payment default occurred within 
one year of the modification. The dollar amounts presented represent the balance of such loans at the end of the reporting period in which such loans defaulted. For 

residential real estate loans modified in TDRs, payment default is deemed to occur when the loan becomes two contractual paymen
ts past due. In the event that a 
modified loan redefaults, it is probable that the loan will ultimately be liquidated through foreclosure or another similar type of liquidation transaction. Redefaults of 

loans modified within the last 12 months may not be representative of ultimate redefault levels.
At December 31, 2015, the weighted-average estimated 

remaining lives of residential real estate loans, excluding 

PCI loans, permanently modified in TDRs were 10 years for 

senior lien home equity, 9 years for junior lien home equity, 

10 years for prime mortgages, including option ARMs, and 

8 years for subprime mortgage. The estimated remaining 

lives of these loans reflect estimated prepayments, both 

voluntary and involuntary (i.e., foreclosures and other 

forced liquidations).
Active and suspended foreclosure 

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm had non-PCI 

residential real estate loans, excluding those insured by U.S. 

government agencies, with a carrying value of $1.2 billion 

and $1.5 billion, respectively, that were not included in 

REO, but were in the process of active or suspended 

foreclosure.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report253Other consumer loansThe table below provides information for other consumer 
retained loan classes, including auto, business banking and student 
loans.December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
AutoBusiness bankingStudent and otherTotal other consumer
20152014201520142015201420152014Loan delinquency
(a)Current$59,442
$53,866
$20,887
$19,710
$9,405
$10,080
$89,734
$83,656
30–119 days past due8046632152084455761,4641,447120 or more days past due97106140246314361461Total retained loans$60,255
$54,536
$21,208
$20,058
$10,096
$10,970
$91,559
$85,564
% of 30+ days past due to totalretained loans1.35%1.23%1.51%1.73%1.63%(d)2.15%(d)1.42%(d)1.47%(d)90 or more days past due and still 
accruing
 (b)$—$—$—$—$290
$367
$290
$367
Nonaccrual loans116115263279242270621664Geographic regionCalifornia$7,186
$6,294
$3,530
$3,008
$1,051
$1,143
$11,767
$10,445
New York3,8743,6623,3593,1871,2241,2598,4578,108Illinois3,6783,1751,4591,3736797295,8165,277Texas6,4575,6082,6222,6268398689,9189,102Florida2,8432,3019418275165214,3003,649New Jersey1,9981,9455004513663782,8642,774Washington1,1351,0192642582122351,6111,512Arizona2,0332,0031,2051,0832362393,4743,325Michigan1,5501,6331,3611,3754154663,3263,474Ohio2,3402,1571,3631,3545596294,2624,140All other27,16124,7394,6044,5163,9994,50335,76433,758Total retained loans$60,255
$54,536
$21,208
$20,058
$10,096
$10,970
$91,559
$85,564
Loans by risk ratings
(c)
Noncriticized$11,277
$9,822
$15,505
$14,619
NANA$26,782
$24,441
Criticized performing7635815708NANA891743Criticized nonaccrual——210213NANA210213(a) Student loan delinquency classifications included loans
 insured by U.S. government agencies under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP”) as follows: current 
included $3.8 billion and $4.3 billion; 30-119 days past due included $299 million and $364 million; and 120 or more days past 
due included $227 million and $290 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
(b) These amounts represent student loans, which are insured by U.S. government agencies under the FFELP. These amounts were ac
cruing as reimbursement of insured amounts 
is proceeding normally.
(c) For risk-rated business banking and auto loans, the primary credit quality indicator is the risk rating of the loan, includ
ing whether the loans are considered to be criticized 
and/or nonaccrual.
(d) December 31, 2015 and 2014, excluded loans 30 days or more past due and still accruing, which are insured by U.S. governmen
t agencies under the FFELP, of $526 million 
and $654 million, respectively. These amounts were excluded as reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
254JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportOther consumer impaired loans and loan modifications 
The table below sets forth information about the Firm’s 

other consumer impaired loans, including risk-rated 

business banking and auto loans that have been placed on 

nonaccrual status, and loans that have been modified in 

TDRs. December 31, (in millions)20152014Impaired loansWith an allowance$527
$557
Without an allowance
(a)3135Total impaired loans
(b)(c)
$558
$592
Allowance for loan losses related toimpaired loans$118
$117
Unpaid principal balance of impaired 
loans(d)668719Impaired loans on nonaccrual status449456(a) When discounted cash flows, collater
al value or market price equals or 
exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, the loan does not require an 
allowance. This typically occurs when the impaired loans have been 

partially charged off and/or there have been interest payments received 

and applied to the loan balance.
(b) Predominantly all other consumer impaired loans are in the U.S.

(c) Other consumer average impaired loans were $566 million, $599 million 
and $648 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 

2013, respectively. The related interest income on impaired loans, 

including those on a cash basis, was not material for the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.(d) Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 
2015 and 2014. The unpaid principal balance differs from the impaired 

loan balances due to various factors, including charge-offs; interest 

payments received and applied to the principal balance; net deferred loan 

fees or costs; and unamortized discounts or premiums on purchased loans.
Loan modifications 

Certain other consumer loan modifications are considered 

to be TDRs as they provide various concessions to 

borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulty. All of 

these TDRs are reported as impaired loans in the table 

above.
The following table provides information about the Firm’s 
other consumer loans modified in TDRs. New TDRs were not 

material for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 

2014.December 31, (in millions)20152014Loans modified in TDRs
(a)(b)$384
$442
TDRs on nonaccrual status275306(a) The impact of these modifications was not material to the Firm for the 
years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014.
(b) Additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose loans have been 
modified in TDRs as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 were immaterial.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report255Purchased credit-impaired loans
PCI loans are initially recorded at fair value at acquisition. 

PCI loans acquired in the same fiscal quarter may be 

aggregated into one or more pools, provided that the loans 

have common risk characteristics. A pool is then accounted 

for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate 

and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. With respect to 

the Washington Mutual transaction, all of the consumer PCI 

loans were aggregated into pools of loans with common risk 

characteristics.
On a quarterly basis, the Firm estimates the total cash flows 
(both principal and interest) expected to be collected over 

the remaining life of each pool. These estimates incorporate 

assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the 

amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that 

reflect then-current market conditions. Probable decreases 

in expected cash flows (i.e., increased credit losses) trigger 

the recognition of impairment, which is then measured as 

the present value of the expected principal loss plus any 

related foregone interest cash flows, discounted at the 

pool’s effective interest rate. Impairments are recognized 

through the provision for credit losses and an increase in 

the allowance for loan losses. Probable and significant 

increases in expected cash flo
ws (e.g., decreased credit losses, the net benefit of modifications) would first reverse 

any previously recorded all
owance for loan losses with any 
remaining increases recognized prospectively as a yield 

adjustment over the remaining estimated lives of the 

underlying loans. The impacts of (i) prepayments, (ii) 

changes in variable interest rates, and (iii) any other 

changes in the timing of expected cash flows are recognized 

prospectively as adjustments to interest income.
The Firm continues to modify certain PCI loans. The impact 
of these modifications is incorporated into the Firm’s 

quarterly assessment of whether a probable and significant 

change in expected cash flows has occurred, and the loans 

continue to be accounted for and reported as PCI loans. In 

evaluating the effect of modifications on expected cash 

flows, the Firm incorporates the effect of any foregone 

interest and also considers the potential for redefault. The 

Firm develops product-specific probability of default 

estimates, which are used to compute expected credit 

losses. In developing these probabilities of default, the Firm 

considers the relationship between the credit quality 

characteristics of the underlying loans and certain 

assumptions about home prices and unemployment based 

upon industry-wide data. The Firm also considers its own 

historical loss experience to-date based on actual 

redefaulted modified PCI loans.
The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the 
carrying value of the underlying loans is referred to as the 

accretable yield. This amount is not reported on the Firm’s 

Consolidated balance sheets but is accreted into interest 

income at a level rate of return over the remaining 

estimated lives of the underlying pools of loans.
If the timing and/or amounts of expected cash flows on PCI 

loans were determined not to be reasonably estimable, no 

interest would be accreted and the loans would be reported 

as nonaccrual loans; however, since the timing and amounts 

of expected cash flows for the Firm’s PCI consumer loans 

are reasonably estimable, interest is being accreted and the 

loans are being reported as performing loans.
The liquidation of PCI loans, which may include sales of 
loans, receipt of payment in full from the borrower, or 

foreclosure, results in removal of the loans from the 

underlying PCI pool. When the amount of the liquidation 

proceeds (e.g., cash, real estate), if any, is less than the 
unpaid principal balance of the loan, the difference is first 

applied against the PCI pool’s nonaccretable difference for 

principal losses (i.e., the lifetime credit loss estimate 

established as a purchase accounting adjustment at the 

acquisition date). When the nonaccretable difference for a 

particular loan pool has been fully depleted, any excess of 

the unpaid principal balance of the loan over the liquidation 

proceeds is written off against the PCI pool’s allowance for 

loan losses. Beginning in 2014, write-offs of PCI loans also 

include other adjustments, primarily related to interest 

forgiveness modifications. Because the Firm’s PCI loans are 

accounted for at a pool level, the Firm does not recognize 

charge-offs of PCI loans when they reach specified stages of 

delinquency (i.e., unlike non-PCI consumer loans, these 

loans are not charged off based on FFIEC standards).
The PCI portfolio affects the Firm’s results of operations 
primarily through: (i) contribution to net interest margin; 

(ii) expense related to defaults and servicing resulting from 

the liquidation of the loans; and (iii) any provision for loan 

losses. The PCI loans acquired in the Washington Mutual 

transaction were funded based on the interest rate 

characteristics of the loans. For example, variable-rate 

loans were funded with variable-rate liabilities and fixed-

rate loans were funded with fixed-rate liabilities with a 

similar maturity profile. A net spread will be earned on the 

declining balance of the portfolio, which is estimated as of 

December 31, 2015, to have a remaining weighted-average 

life of 9 years.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
256JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportResidential real estate – PCI loans
The table below sets forth information about the Firm’s consumer, excluding credit card, PCI loans.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
Home equityPrime mortgageSubprime mortgageOption ARMs
Total PCI2015201420152014201520142015201420152014Carrying value
(a)$14,989
$17,095
$8,893
$10,220
$3,263
$3,673
$13,853
$15,708
$40,998
$46,696
Related allowance for loan losses
(b)1,7081,7589851,193—180491942,7423,325Loan delinquency (based on unpaid principalbalance)Current$14,387
$16,295
$7,894
$8,912
$3,232
$3,565
$12,370
$13,814
$37,883
$42,586
30–149 days past due3224454245004395367118581,8962,339150 or more days past due6331,0006018373805511,2721,8242,8864,212Total loans$15,342
$17,740
$8,919
$10,249
$4,051
$4,652
$14,353
$16,496
$42,665
$49,137
% of 30+ days past due to total loans6.22%
8.15%
11.49%13.05%20.22%23.37%13.82%16.26%11.21%13.33%Current estimated LTV ratios (based on unpaid 
principal balance)
(c)(d)(e)
Greater than 125% and refreshed FICO scores:Equal to or greater than 660$153
$301
$10
$22
$10
$22
$19
$50
$192
$395
Less than 660801592852551063684199401101% to 125% and refreshed FICO scores:Equal to or greater than 6609421,448120268771441663301,3052,190Less than 6604447281522842203902394481,0551,85080% to 100% and refreshed FICO scores:Equal to or greater than 6602,7093,5918161,4053314519771,6954,8337,142Less than 6601,1361,4856149696439111,0501,6103,4434,975Lower than 80% and refreshed FICO scores:Equal to or greater than 6606,7246,6264,2434,2118637877,0737,05318,90318,677Less than 6602,2652,3082,4382,4271,6421,5854,0654,29110,41010,611No FICO/LTV available8891,0944986112102567289352,3252,896Total unpaid principal balance$15,342
$17,740
$8,919
$10,249
$4,051
$4,652
$14,353
$16,496
$42,665
$49,137
Geographic region (based on unpaid principalbalance)California$9,205
$10,671
$5,172
$5,965
$1,005
$1,138
$8,108
$9,190
$23,490
$26,964
New York7888765806724004638139332,5812,944Illinois3584052633011962293333971,1501,332Texas22427394922432817585636731Florida1,4791,6965866893734321,1831,4403,6214,257New Jersey3103482382791391654705531,1571,345Washington81995919422581953393951,4331,674Arizona2813231431677685203227703802Michigan4453141166113130150182448531Ohio1720454862726169185209All other1,8172,1161,4631,6451,3631,5622,6183,0257,2618,348Total unpaid principal balance$15,342
$17,740
$8,919
$10,249
$4,051
$4,652
$14,353
$16,496
$42,665
$49,137
(a) Carrying value includes the effect of fair value adjustments that were applied to the consumer PCI portfolio at the date of
 acquisition.(b) Management concluded as part of the Firm’s regular assessment of the PCI loan pools that it was probable that higher expected credit losses would result in a decrease in 
expected cash flows. As a result, an allowance for loan losses for impairment of these pools has been recognized.
(c) Represents the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans divided by the estimated current property value. Current propert
y values are estimated, at a minimum, quarterly, 
based on home valuation models using nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporating actual data to th
e extent available and forecasted data where 
actual data is not available. These property values do not represent actual appraised loan level collateral values; as such, th
e resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and 
should be viewed as estimates. Current estimated combined LTV for junior lien home equity loans considers all available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the 
property. Effective December 31, 2015, the current estimated LTV ratios reflect updates to the nationally recognized home price index valuation estimates incorporated into 
the Firm’s home valuation models. The prior period ratios have been revised to conform with these updates in the home price ind
ex.
(d) Refreshed FICO scores represent each borrower’s most recent credit score, which is obtained by the Firm on at least a quart
erly basis.(e) The current period current estimated LTV ratios disclosures have been updated to reflect where either the FICO score or estimated property value is unavailable. The prior 
period amounts have been revised to conform with the current presentation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report257Approximately 23% of the PCI home equity portfolio are senior lien loans; the remaining balance are junior lien HELOANs or 
HELOCs. The following table sets forth delinquency statistics for PCI junior lien home equity loans and lines of credit based on 

the unpaid principal balance as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.
Total loansTotal 30+ day delinquency rateDecember 31,2015201420152014(in millions, except ratios)HELOCs:
(a)Within the revolving period
(b)$5,000
$8,972
4.10%6.42%Beyond the revolving period
(c)
6,2524,1434.466.42HELOANs5827365.338.83Total$11,834
$13,851
4.35%6.55%(a) In general, these HELOCs are revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to an interest-only loan with a balloon payment at the end of 
the loan’s term.
(b) Substantially all undrawn HELOCs within the revolving period have been closed.
(c) Includes loans modified into fixed-rate amortizing loans.
The table below sets forth the accretable yield activity for the Firm’s PCI consumer loans for the years ended December 31, 

2015, 2014 and 2013, and represents the Firm’s estimate of gross interest income expected to be earned over the remaining 

life of the PCI loan portfolios. The table excludes the cost to fund the PCI portfolios, and therefore the accretable yield does not 

represent net interest income expected to be earned on these portfolios.
Year ended December 31,(in millions, except ratios)Total PCI201520142013
Beginning balance$14,592
$16,167$18,457
Accretion into interest income
(1,700)(1,934)(2,201)
Changes in interest rates on variable-rate loans
279(174)(287)
Other changes in expected cash flows
(a)230533198
Reclassification from nonaccretable difference
(b)90——Balance at December 31$13,491
$14,592$16,167
Accretable yield percentage
4.20%4.19%4.31%
(a) Other changes in expected cash flows may vary from period to period as the Firm continues to refine its cash flow model and
 periodically updates model assumptions. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, other changes in expected cash flows were driven by c
hanges in prepayment 
assumptions. For the year ended December 31, 2013, other changes in expected cash flows were due to refining the expected inter
est cash flows on HELOCs with 
balloon payments, partially offset by changes in prepayment assumptions.
(b) Reclassifications from the nonaccretable difference in the year ended December 31, 2015 were driven by continued improvemen
t in home prices and delinquencies, as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates.
The factors that most significantly affect estimates of gross 
cash flows expected to be collected, and accordingly the 

accretable yield balance, include: (i) changes in the 

benchmark interest rate indices for variable-rate products 

such as option ARM and home equity loans; and (ii) changes 

in prepayment assumptions.
Active and suspended foreclosure 

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm had PCI 

residential real estate loans with an unpaid principal 

balance of $2.3 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, that 

were not included in REO, but were in the process of active 

or suspended foreclosure.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
258JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportCredit card loan portfolio
The credit card portfolio segment includes credit card loans 
originated and purchased by the Firm. Delinquency rates 

are the primary credit quality indicator for credit card loans 

as they provide an early warning that borrowers may be 

experiencing difficulties (30 days past due); information on 

those borrowers that have been delinquent for a longer 

period of time (90 days past due) is also considered. In 

addition to delinquency rates, the geographic distribution of 

the loans provides insight as to the credit quality of the 

portfolio based on the regional economy.
While the borrower’s credit score is another general 
indicator of credit quality, the Firm does not view credit 

scores as a primary indicator of credit quality because the 

borrower’s credit score tends to be a lagging indicator. 

However, the distribution of such scores provides a general 

indicator of credit quality trends within the portfolio. 

Refreshed FICO score information, which is obtained at least 

quarterly, for a statistically significant random sample of 

the credit card portfolio is indicated in the table below; FICO 

is considered to be the industry benchmark for credit 

scores.
The Firm generally originates new card accounts to prime 
consumer borrowers. However, certain cardholders’ FICO 

scores may decrease over time, depending on the 

performance of the cardholder and changes in credit score 

technology.
The table below sets forth information about the Firm’s 

credit card loans.
As of or for the year 
ended December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
20152014Net charge-offs$3,122
$3,429
% of net charge-offs to retained loans2.51%2.75%Loan delinquencyCurrent and less than 30 days past dueand still accruing$129,502
$126,189
30–89 days past due and still accruing94194390 or more days past due and still accruing944895Total retained credit card loans$131,387
$128,027
Loan delinquency ratios
% of 30+ days past due to total retainedloans1.43%1.44%% of 90+ days past due to total retainedloans0.720.70Credit card loans by geographic regionCalifornia$18,802
$17,940
Texas11,84711,088New York11,36010,940Florida7,8067,398Illinois7,6557,497New Jersey5,8795,750Ohio4,7004,707Pennsylvania4,5334,489Michigan3,5623,552Colorado3,3993,226All other51,84451,440Total retained credit card loans$131,387
$128,027
Percentage of portfolio based on carryingvalue with estimated refreshed FICOscoresEqual to or greater than 66084.4%85.7%Less than 66015.614.3JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report259Credit card impaired loans and loan modifications 
The table below sets forth information about the Firm’s 

impaired credit card loans. All of these loans are considered 

to be impaired as they have been modified in TDRs.
December 31, (in millions)20152014Impaired credit card loans with an 
allowance
(a)(b)Credit card loans with modified payment 
terms(c)
$1,286
$1,775
Modified credit card loans that have 
reverted to pre-modification payment 
terms(d)179254Total impaired credit card loans
(e)$1,465
$2,029
Allowance for loan losses related toimpaired credit card loans$460
$500
(a) The carrying value and the unpaid principal balance are the same for credit 
card impaired loans.
(b) There were no impaired loans without an allowance.
(c) Represents credit card loans outstanding to borrowers enrolled in a credit 
card modification program as of the date presented.
(d) Represents credit card loans that were modified in TDRs but that have 
subsequently reverted back to the loans’ pre-modification payment terms. 

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, $113 million and $159 million, 

respectively, of loans have reverted back to the pre-modification payment 

terms of the loans due to noncompliance with the terms of the modified 
loans. The remaining $66 million and $95 million at December 31, 2015 

and 2014, respectively, of these loans are to borrowers who have 

successfully completed a short-term modification program. The Firm 

continues to report these loans as TDRs since the borrowers’ credit lines 

remain closed.
(e) Predominantly all impaired credit card loans are in the U.S.
The following table presents average balances of impaired 

credit card loans and interest income recognized on those 

loans. Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Average impaired credit card loans$1,710
$2,503$3,882
Interest income on

  impaired credit card loans
82123198
Loan modifications 
JPMorgan Chase may offer one of a number of loan 

modification programs to credit card borrowers who are 

experiencing financial difficulty. Most of the credit card 

loans have been modified under long-term programs for 

borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties. 

Modifications under long-term programs involve placing the 

customer on a fixed payment plan, generally for 60 months. 

The Firm may also offer short-term programs for borrowers 

who may be in need of temporary relief; however, none are 

currently being offered. Modifications under all short- and 

long-term programs typically include reducing the interest 

rate on the credit card. Substantially all modifications are 

considered to be TDRs.
If the cardholder does not comply with the modified 
payment terms, then the credit card loan agreement reverts 

back to its pre-modification payment terms. Assuming that 

the cardholder does not begin to perform in accordance 

with those payment terms, the loan continues to age and 

will ultimately be charged-off in accordance with the Firm’s 

standard charge-off policy. In addition, if a borrower 

successfully completes a short-term modification program, 
then the loan reverts back to its pre-modification payment 

terms. However, in most cases, the Firm does not reinstate 

the borrower’s line of credit.
New enrollments in these loan modification programs for 
the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, were 

$638 million, $807 million and $1.2 billion, respectively.
Financial effects of modifications and redefaults 
The following table provides information about the financial 

effects of the concessions granted on credit card loans 

modified in TDRs and redefaults for the periods presented.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except

weighted-average data)
201520142013
Weighted-average interest rateof loans – before TDR15.08%14.96%15.37%
Weighted-average interest rateof loans – after TDR4.404.404.38
Loans that redefaulted within 
one year of modification
(a)$85
$119$167
(a) Represents loans modified in TDRs that experienced a payment default in 
the periods presented, and for which the payment default occurred within 
one year of the modification. The amounts presented represent the balance 

of such loans as of the end of the quarter in which they defaulted.
For credit card loans modified in TDRs, payment default is 

deemed to have occurred when the loans become two 

payments past due. A substantial portion of these loans is 

expected to be charged-off in accordance with the Firm’s 

standard charge-off policy. Based on historical experience, 

the estimated weighted-average default rate for credit card 

loans modified was expected to be 25.61%, 27.91% and 

30.72% as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 
respectively.
Wholesale loan portfolio
Wholesale loans include loans made to a variety of 
customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional 

clients to high-net-worth individuals.
The primary credit quality indicator for wholesale loans is 
the risk rating assigned each loan. Risk ratings are used to 

identify the credit quality of loans and differentiate risk 

within the portfolio. Risk ratings on loans consider the 

probability of default (“PD”) and the loss given default 

(“LGD”). The PD is the likelihood that a loan will default and 

not be fully repaid by the borrower. The LGD is the 

estimated loss on the loan that would be realized upon the 

default of the borrower and takes into consideration 

collateral and structural support for each credit facility.
Management considers several factors to determine an 
appropriate risk rating, including the obligor’s debt capacity 
and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor’s earnings, 
the amount and sources for repayment, the level and nature 
of contingencies, management strength, and the industry 
and geography in which the obligor operates. The Firm’s 
definition of criticized aligns with the banking regulatory 
definition of criticized exposures, which consist of special 

mention, substandard and doubtful categories. Risk ratings 
generally represent ratings profiles similar to those defined 
by S&P and Moody’s. Investment-grade ratings range from 
“AAA/Aaa” to “BBB-/Baa3.” Noninvestment-grade ratings 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
260JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportare classified as noncriticized (“BB+/Ba1 and B-/B3”) and 
criticized (“CCC+”/“Caa1 and below”), and the criticized 

portion is further subdivided into performing and 
nonaccrual loans, representing management’s assessment 
of the collectibility of principal and interest. Criticized loans 

have a higher probability of default than noncriticized 

loans.Risk ratings are reviewed on a regular and ongoing basis by 
Credit Risk Management and are adjusted as necessary for 
updated information affecting the obligor’s ability to fulfill 
its obligations.
As noted above, the risk rating of a loan considers the 
industry in which the obligor conducts its operations. As 

part of the overall credit risk management framework, the 
Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its 
industry and client exposures, with particular attention paid 

to industries with actual or potential credit concern. See 

Note 5 for further detail on industry concentrations.
The table below provides information by class of receivable for the retained loans in the Wholesale portfolio segment.
As of or for the 
year ended 
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
Commercial 
and industrialReal estateFinancial institutionsGovernment agenciesOther
(e)
Totalretained loans201520142015201420152014201520142015201420152014Loans by riskratingsInvestment grade
$62,150
$63,069
$74,330
$61,006
$21,786
$27,111
$11,363
$8,393
$98,107
$82,087
$267,736
$241,666
Noninvestment 
  grade:
Noncriticized45,63244,11717,00816,5417,6677,093(d)25630011,39010,067(d)81,95378,118Criticizedperforming4,5422,2511,2511,313320316732532366,3734,119Criticizednonaccrual6081882312531018——139140988599Totalnoninvestmentgrade50,78246,55618,49018,1077,9977,427(d)26330311,78210,443(d)89,31482,836Total retainedloans$112,932
$109,625
$92,820
$79,113
$29,783
$34,538
(d)$11,626
$8,696
$109,889
$92,530
(d)$357,050
$324,502
% of totalcriticized to
total retained
loans4.56%2.22%1.60%
1.98%
1.11%
0.97%
0.06%
0.03%0.36%0.41%
2.06%1.45%% of nonaccrualloans to total
retained loans0.540.170.250.320.030.05——0.130.150.280.18Loans by 
geographic 

distribution(a)Total non-U.S.$30,063
$33,739
$3,003
$2,099
$17,166
$20,944
$1,788
$1,122
$42,031
$42,961
$94,051
$100,865
Total U.S.82,86975,88689,81777,01412,61713,594(d)9,8387,57467,85849,569(d)262,999223,637Total retainedloans$112,932
$109,625
$92,820
$79,113
$29,783
$34,538
(d)$11,626
$8,696
$109,889
$92,530
(d)$357,050
$324,502
Net charge-offs/(recoveries)$26
$22
$(14)
$(9)
$(5)
$(12)
$(8)
$25
$11
$(14)
$10
$12
% of net charge-offs/
(recoveries) to 

end-of-period 
retained loans
0.02%0.02%(0.02)%
(0.01)%
(0.02)%
(0.04)%
(0.07)%
0.29%0.01%(0.02)%
—%—%Loan 
delinquency(b)Current and lessthan 30 dayspast due andstill accruing$112,058
$108,857
$92,381
$78,552
$29,713
$34,416
(d)$11,565
$8,627
$108,734
$91,160
(d)$354,451
$321,612
30–89 days pastdue and stillaccruing2595661932754910455699881,2011,5442,21590 or more days 
past due and 
still accruing
(c)
714153311—6—28296776Criticizednonaccrual6081882312531018——139140988599Total retainedloans$112,932
$109,625
$92,820
$79,113
$29,783
$34,538
(d)$11,626
$8,696
$109,889
$92,530
(d)$357,050
$324,502
(a) The U.S. and non-U.S. distribution is determined based predominantly on the domicile of the borrower.
(b) The credit quality of wholesale loans is assessed primarily through ongoing review and monitoring of an obligor’s ability t
o meet contractual obligations rather than relying on 
the past due status, which is generally a lagging indicator of credit quality.
(c) Represents loans that are considered well-collateralized and therefore still accruing interest.
(d) Effective in the fourth quarter 2015, the Firm realigned its wholesale industry divisions in order to better monitor and ma
nage industry concentrations. Prior period amounts 
have been revised to conform with current period presentation. For additional information, see Wholesale credit portfolio on pa
ges 122–129.(e) Other includes: individuals; SPEs; holding companies; and private education and civic organizations. For more information on exposures to SPEs, see Note 16.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report261The following table presents additional information on the real estate class of loans within the Wholesale portfolio segment 
for the periods indicated. The real estate class primarily consists of secured commercial loans mainly to borrowers for multi-

family and commercial lessor properties. Multifamily lending specifically finances apartment buildings. Commercial lessors 

receive financing specifically for real estate leased to retail, office and industrial tenants. Commercial construction and 

development loans represent financing for the construction 
of apartments, office and professional buildings and malls. Other 
real estate loans include lodging, real estate investment trusts (“REITs”), single-family, homebuilders and other real estate.
December 31,
(in millions, except ratios)
MultifamilyCommercial lessorsCommercial constructionand developmentOtherTotal real estate loans2015201420152014201520142015201420152014
Real estate retained loans
$60,290
$51,049
$20,062
$17,438
$4,920
$4,264
$7,548
$6,362
$92,820
$79,113
Criticized520652844841434275311,4821,566% of criticized to total real estateretained loans0.86%
1.28%
4.21%
4.82%
0.87%
0.98%
0.99%
0.49%
1.60%
1.98%
Criticized nonaccrual
$85
$126
$100
$110
$1$—$45
$17
$231
$253
% of criticized nonaccrual to totalreal estate retained loans0.14%
0.25%
0.50%
0.63%
0.02%
—%0.60%
0.27%
0.25%
0.32%
Wholesale impaired loans and loan modifications
Wholesale impaired loans consist of loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and/or that have been modified in a TDR. 

All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note 15.
The table below sets forth information about the Firm’s wholesale impaired loans.
December 31, 
(in millions)Commercial
and industrialReal estate
Financial
institutionsGovernment
 agenciesOther
Total 
retained loans
201520142015201420152014201520142015201420152014Impaired loansWith an allowance$522
$174
$148
$193
$10
$15
$—$—$46
$89
$726
$471
Without an allowance
(a)982410687—3——9452298166Total
 impaired loans
$620
$198
$254
$280
$10
$18
$—$—$140
$141
$1,024
(c)$637
(c)Allowance for loan losses relatedto impaired loans$220
$34
$27
$36
$3$4$—$—$24
$13
$274
$87
Unpaid principal balance of impaired loans
(b)6692663633451322——1642021,209835(a) When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price 
equals or exceeds the recorded investment in the loan, the
 loan does not require an allowance. This typically 
occurs when the impaired loans have been partially charged-off and/or there have been interest payments received and applied to
 the loan balance.
(b) Represents the contractual amount of principal owed at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The unpaid principal balance differs fro
m the impaired loan balances due to various 
factors, including charge-offs; interest payments received and applied to the carrying value; net deferred loan fees or costs; 
and unamortized discount or premiums on 
purchased loans.
(c) Based upon the domicile of the borrower, largely consists of loans in the U.S.
The following table presents the Firm’s average impaired 
loans for the years ended 2015, 2014 and 2013.
Year ended December 31, (in millions)
201520142013
Commercial and industrial
$453
$243$412
Real estate250297484
Financial institutions
132017Government agencies
———Other129155211
Total
(a)$845
$715$1,124
(a) The related interest income on accruing impaired loans and interest income 
recognized on a cash basis were not material for the years ended December 31, 
2015, 2014 and 2013.Certain loan modifications are considered to be TDRs as 
they provide various concessions to borrowers who are 

experiencing financial difficulty. All TDRs are reported as 
impaired loans in the tables ab
ove. TDRs were not material as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.Notes to consolidated financial statements
262JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 15 – Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan Chase’s allowance for loan losses covers the 
consumer, including credit card, portfolio segments 

(primarily scored); and wholesale (risk-rated) portfolio, and 

represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses 

inherent in the Firm’s loan portfolio. The allowance for loan 

losses includes an asset-specific component, a formula-

based component and a component related to PCI loans, as 

described below. Management also estimates an allowance 

for wholesale and consumer lending-related commitments 

using methodologies similar to those used to estimate the 

allowance on the underlying loans. During 2015, the Firm 

did not make any significant changes to the methodologies 

or policies used to determine its allowance for credit losses; 

such policies are described in the following paragraphs. 
The asset-specific component of the allowance relates to 
loans considered to be impaired, which includes loans that 

have been modified in TDRs as well as risk-rated loans that 

have been placed on nonaccrual status. To determine the 

asset-specific component of the allowance, larger loans are 

evaluated individually, while smaller loans are evaluated as 

pools using historical loss experience for the respective 

class of assets. Scored loans (i.e., consumer loans) are 

pooled by product type, while risk-rated loans (primarily 

wholesale loans) are segmented by risk rating. 
The Firm generally measures the asset-specific allowance as 
the difference between the re
corded investment in the loan 
and the present value of the cash flows expected to be 

collected, discounted at the loan’s original effective interest 

rate. Subsequent changes in impairment are reported as an 

adjustment to the provision for loan losses. In certain cases, 

the asset-specific allowance is determined using an 

observable market price, and the allowance is measured as 

the difference between the re
corded investment in the loan 
and the loan’s fair value. Impaired collateral-dependent 

loans are charged down to the fair value of collateral less 

costs to sell and therefore may not be subject to an asset-

specific reserve as are other impaired loans. See Note 14 

for more information about charge-offs and collateral-

dependent loans. The asset-specific component of the allowance for impaired 

loans that have been modified in TDRs incorporates the 

effects of foregone interest, if any, in the present value 

calculation and also incorporates the effect of the 

modification on the loan’s expected cash flows, which 

considers the potential for redefault. For residential real 

estate loans modified in TDRs, the Firm develops product-

specific probability of default estimates, which are applied 

at a loan level to compute expected losses. In developing 

these probabilities of default, the Firm considers the 

relationship between the credit quality characteristics of 

the underlying loans and certain assumptions about home 

prices and unemployment, based upon industry-wide data. 

The Firm also considers its own historical loss experience to 

date based on actual redefaulted modified loans. For credit 

card loans modified in TDRs, expected losses incorporate 

projected redefaults based on the Firm’s historical 

experience by type of modification program. For wholesale 

loans modified in TDRs, expected losses incorporate 

redefaults based on management’s expectation of the 

borrower’s ability to repay under the modified terms. 
The formula-based component is based on a statistical 
calculation to provide for incurred credit losses in 

performing risk-rated loans and all consumer loans, except 

for any loans restructured in TDRs and PCI loans. See Note 

14 for more information on PCI loans. 
For scored loans, the statistical calculation is performed on 
pools of loans with similar risk characteristics (e.g., product 

type) and generally computed by applying loss factors to 

outstanding principal balances over an estimated loss 

emergence period. The loss emergence period represents 

the time period between the date at which the loss is 

estimated to have been incurred and the ultimate 

realization of that loss (through a charge-off). Estimated 

loss emergence periods may vary by product and may 

change over time; management applies judgment in 

estimating loss emergence periods, using available credit 

information and trends. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report263Loss factors are statistically derived and sensitive to 
changes in delinquency status, credit scores, collateral 

values and other risk factors. The Firm uses a number of 

different forecasting models to estimate both the PD and 

the loss severity, including delinquency roll rate models and 

credit loss severity models. In developing PD and loss 

severity assumptions, the Firm also considers known and 

anticipated changes in the economic environment, including 

changes in home prices, unemployment rates and other risk 

indicators. 
A nationally recognized home price index measure is used 
to estimate both the PD and the loss severity on residential 

real estate loans at the metropolitan statistical areas 

(“MSA”) level. Loss severity estimates are regularly 

validated by comparison to actual losses recognized on 

defaulted loans, market-specific real estate appraisals and 

property sales activity. The economic impact of potential 

modifications of residential real estate loans is not included 

in the statistical calculation because of the uncertainty 

regarding the type and results of such modifications. 
For risk-rated loans, the statistical calculation is the product 
of an estimated PD and an estimated LGD. These factors are 

determined based on the credit quality and specific 

attributes of the Firm’s loans and lending-related 

commitments to each obligor. In assessing the risk rating of 

a particular loan, among the factors considered are the 

obligor’s debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of 

the obligor’s earnings, the amount and sources for 

repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, 

management strength, and the industry and geography in 

which the obligor operates. These factors are based on an 

evaluation of historical and current information, and involve 

subjective assessment and interpretation. Emphasizing one 

factor over another or considering additional factors could 

impact the risk rating assigned by the Firm. PD estimates 

are based on observable external through-the-cycle data, 

using credit-rating agency default statistics. LGD estimates 

are based on the Firm’s history of actual credit losses over 

more than one credit cycle. Estimates of PD and LGD are 

subject to periodic refinement based on changes to 

underlying external and Firm-specific historical data. 
Management applies judgment within an established 
framework to adjust the results of applying the statistical 

calculation described above. The determination of the 
appropriate adjustment is based on management’s view of 

loss events that have occurred but that are not yet reflected 

in the loss factors and that relate to current macroeconomic 

and political conditions, the quality of underwriting 

standards and other relevant internal and external factors 

affecting the credit quality of the portfolio. For the scored 

loan portfolios, adjustments to the statistical calculation are 

made in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for 

each major product segment. Factors related to 

unemployment, home prices, borrower behavior and lien 

position, the estimated effects of the mortgage foreclosure-

related settlement with federal and state officials and 

uncertainties regardin
g the ultimate success of loan modifications are incorporated into the calculation, as 

appropriate. For junior lien products, management 

considers the delinquency and/or modification status of any 

senior liens in determining the adjustment. In addition, for 

the risk-rated portfolios, any adjustments made to the 

statistical calculation take into consideration model 

imprecision, deteriorating conditions within an industry, 

product or portfolio type, geographic location, credit 

concentration, and current 
economic events that have 
occurred but that are not yet reflected in the factors used to 

derive the statistical calculation. 
Management establishes an asset-specific allowance for 
lending-related commitments that are considered impaired 

and computes a formula-based allowance for performing 

consumer and wholesale lending-related commitments. 

These are computed using a methodology similar to that 

used for the wholesale loan portfolio, modified for expected 

maturities and probabilities of drawdown. 
Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is 
complex and requires judgment by management about the 

effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Subsequent 

evaluations of the loan portfolio, in light of the factors then 

prevailing, may result in significant changes in the 

allowances for loan losses and lending-related 

commitments in future periods. At least quarterly, the 

allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk 

Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the 

Firm and discussed with the Risk Policy and Audit 

Committees of the Board of Directors of the Firm. As of 

December 31, 2015, JPMorgan Chase deemed the 

allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e., sufficient 

to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio). 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
264JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportAllowance for credit losses 
and related information 
The table below summarizes information about the allowances 
for loan losses, and lending-relating commitments, and includes 
a breakdown of loans and lending-related commitments by impairment methodology. 
2015Year ended December 31,
(in millions)Consumer,
excluding 
credit card
Credit cardWholesale
TotalAllowance for loan lossesBeginning balance at January 1,$7,050$3,439$3,696$14,185
Gross charge-offs1,6583,488955,241
Gross recoveries(704)(366)(85)(1,155)
Net charge-offs/(recoveries)9543,122104,086

Write-offs of PCI loans
(a)208——208Provision for loan losses(82)3,1226233,663
Other—(5)61
Ending balance at December 31,$5,806$3,434$4,315$13,555
Allowance for loan losses by impairment methodologyAsset-specific
(b)$364$460
(c)$274$1,098
Formula-based2,7002,9744,0419,715
PCI2,742——2,742
Total allowance for loan losses$5,806$3,434$4,315$13,555
Loans by impairment methodologyAsset-specific$9,606$1,465$1,024$12,095
Formula-based293,751129,922356,022779,695
PCI40,998—441,002
Total retained loans$344,355$131,387$357,050$832,792
Impaired collateral-dependent loansNet charge-offs$104$—$16$120
Loans measured at fair value of collateral less cost to sell2,566—2832,849
Allowance for lending-related commitments
Beginning balance at January 1,$13$—$609$622
Provision for lending-related commitments1—163164
Other————
Ending balance at December 31,$14$—$772$786
Allowance for lending-related commitments by impairment methodologyAsset-specific$—$—$73$73
Formula-based14—699713
Total allowance for lending-related commitments$14$—$772$786
Lending-related commitments by impairment methodologyAsset-specific$—$—$193$193
Formula-based58,478515,518366,206940,202
Total lending-related commitments$58,478$515,518$366,399$940,395
(a) Write-offs of PCI loans are recorded against the allowance for loan losses when actual losses for a pool exceed estimated l
osses that were recorded as purchase accounting 
adjustments at the time of acquisition. A write-off of a PCI loan is recognized when the underlying loan is removed from a pool
 (e.g., upon liquidation). During the fourth quarter 
of 2014, the Firm recorded a $291 million adjustment to reduce the PCI allowance and the recorded investment in the Firm’s PCI 
loan portfolio, primarily reflecting the 
cumulative effect of interest forgiveness modifications. This adjustment had no impact to the Firm’s Consolidated statements of
 income.
(b) Includes risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and loans that have been modified in a TDR.
(c) The asset-specific credit card allowance for loan losses is related to loans that have been modified in a TDR; such allowance is calculated based on the loans’ original contractual 
interest rates and does not consider any incremental penalty rates.
(d) Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm no longer includes within its disclosure of wholesale lending-related commitments the unused amount of advised uncommitted lines of 
credit as it is within the Firm’s discretion whether or not to make a loan under these lines, and the Firm’s approval is generally required prior to funding. Prior period 
amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report265(table continued from previous page)20142013
Consumer,
excluding 
credit card
Credit cardWholesaleTotal
Consumer,
excluding 
credit card
Credit cardWholesaleTotal
$8,456$3,795$4,013$16,264$12,292$5,501$4,143$21,936
2,1323,8311516,1142,7544,4722417,467
(814)(402)(139)(1,355)(847)(593)(225)(1,665)
1,3183,429124,7591,9073,879165,802
533——53353——53
4143,079(269)3,224(1,872)2,179(119)188
31(6)(36)(11)(4)(6)5(5)
$7,050$3,439$3,696$14,185$8,456$3,795$4,013$16,264
$539$500
(c)$87$1,126$601$971
(c)$181$1,753
3,1862,9393,6099,7343,6972,8243,83210,353
3,325——3,3254,158——4,158
$7,050$3,439$3,696$14,185$8,456$3,795$4,013$16,264
$12,020$2,029$637$14,686$13,785$3,115$845$17,745
236,263125,998323,861686,122221,609124,350307,412653,371
46,696—446,70053,055—653,061
$294,979$128,027$324,502$747,508$288,449$127,465$308,263$724,177

$133$—$21$154$235$—$37$272
3,025—3263,3513,105—3623,467
$8$—$697$705$7$—$661$668
5—(90)(85)1—3637
——22————
$13$—$609$622$8$—$697$705
$—$—$60$60$—$—$60$60
13—5495628—637645
$13$—$609$622$8$—$697$705

$—$—$103$103$—$—$206$206
58,153525,963366,778
(d)950,89456,057529,383344,032
(d)929,472$58,153$525,963$366,881$950,997$56,057$529,383$344,238$929,678
Notes to consolidated financial statements
266JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 16 – Variable interest entities
For a further description of JPMorgan Chase’s accounting policies regarding consolidation of VIEs, see Note 1.
The following table summarizes the most significant types of Firm-sponsored VIEs by business segment. The Firm considers a 
“sponsored” VIE to include any entity where: (1) JPMorgan Chase is the primary beneficiary of the structure; (2) the VIE is 

used by JPMorgan Chase to securitize Firm assets; (3) the VIE issues financial instruments with the JPMorgan Chase name; or 

(4) the entity is a JPMorgan Chase–administered asset-backed commercial paper conduit.
Line-of-BusinessTransaction TypeActivity
Annual Report
page references
CCBCredit card securitization trusts
Securitization of both originated and purchased
credit card receivables266Mortgage securitization trustsServicing and securitization of both originated and
purchased residential mortgages267–269CIBMortgage and other securitization trustsSecuritization of both originated and purchased
residential and commercial mortgages and student
loans267–269Multi-seller conduits
Investor intermediation activities:
Assist clients in accessing the financial markets in acost-efficient manner and structures transactions to
meet investor needs269–271Municipal bond vehicles269–270The Firm’s other business segments are also involved with VIEs, but to a lesser extent, as follows:
• Asset Management: AM sponsors and manages certain funds that are deemed VIEs. As asset manager of the funds, AM 
earns a fee based on assets managed; the fee varies with each fund’s investment objective and is competitively priced. For 
fund entities that qualify as VIEs, AM’s interests are, in certain cases, considered to be significant variable interests that 

result in consolidation of the financial results of these entities.
• Commercial Banking: CB makes investments in and provides lending to community development entities that may meet the 
definition of a VIE. In addition, CB provides financing and lending-related services to certain client-sponsored VIEs. In 

general, CB does not control the activities of these entities and does not consolidate these entities.
• Corporate
: The Private Equity business, within Corporate, is involved with entities that may meet the definition of VIEs. 
However, the Firm’s Private Equity business is generally subjec
t to specialized investment c
ompany accounting, which does 
not require the consolidation of investments, including VIEs.
The Firm also invests in and provides financing and other services to VIEs sponsored by third parties, as described on page 271
 of this Note.
Significant Firm-sponsored variable interest entities
Credit card securitizations
The Card business securitizes both originated and 

purchased credit card loans, primarily through the Chase 

Issuance Trust (the “Trust”). The Firm’s continuing 

involvement in credit card securitizations includes servicing 

the receivables, retaining an undivided seller’s interest in 

the receivables, retaining certain senior and subordinated 

securities and maintaining escrow accounts.
The Firm is considered to be the primary beneficiary of 
these Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts based 

on the Firm’s ability to direct the activities of these VIEs 

through its servicing responsibilities and other duties, 

including making decisions as to the receivables that are 

transferred into those trusts and as to any related 

modifications and workouts. Additionally, the nature and 

extent of the Firm’s other continuing involvement with the 

trusts, as indicated above, obligates the Firm to absorb losses and gives the Firm the right to receive certain 

benefits from these VIEs that could potentially be 

significant.
The underlying securitized credit card receivables and other 

assets of the securitization trusts are available only for 

payment of the beneficial interests issued by the 

securitization trusts; they are not available to pay the Firm’s 

other obligations or the claims of the Firm’s other creditors.
The agreements with the credit card securitization trusts 
require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest 

in the credit card trusts (which is generally 4%). As of 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm held undivided 

interests in Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts 

of $13.6 billion and $10.9 billion, respectively. The Firm 

maintained an average undivided interest in principal 

receivables owned by those trusts of approximately 22% 

for both the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. As 

of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm also retained $0 

million and $40 million of senior securities, and as of both 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, retained $5.3 billion of 

subordinated securities in certain of its credit card 

securitization trusts. The Firm’s undivided interests in the 

credit card trusts and securities retained are eliminated in 

consolidation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report267Firm-sponsored mortgage and other securitization trusts
The Firm securitizes (or has securitized) originated and 

purchased residential mortgages, commercial mortgages 

and other consumer loans (including student loans) 

primarily in its CCB and CIB businesses. 
Depending on the particular transaction, as well as the 

respective business involved, the Firm may act as the 

servicer of the loans and/or retain certain beneficial 

interests in the securitization trusts.
The following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of assets held in Firm-sponsored private-label securitization 

entities, including those in which the Firm has continuing involvement, and those that are consolidated by the Firm. Continuing
 involvement includes servicing the loans; holding senior inter
ests or subordinated interests; recourse or guarantee 
arrangements; and derivative transactions. In certain instances, the Firm’s only continuing involvement is servicing the loans.
 See Securitization activity on page 272 of this Note for further information regarding the Firm’s cash flows with and interests
 
retained in nonconsolidated VIEs, and pages 272–273 of this Note for information on the Firm’s loan sales to U.S. government 

agencies.Principal amount outstandingJPMorgan Chase interest in securitized 
assets in nonconsolidated VIEs(c)(d)(e)
December 31, 2015 (a) (in billions)Total assetsheld bysecuritizationVIEsAssets heldinconsolidatedsecuritizationVIEsAssets held innonconsolidatedsecuritizationVIEs withcontinuinginvolvementTradingassetsAFSsecuritiesTotalinterests heldby JPMorganChaseSecuritization-relatedResidential mortgage:Prime/Alt-A and option ARMs$85.7$1.4$66.7$0.4$1.6$2.0
Subprime24.40.1
22.60.1—0.1
Commercial and other
(b)123.50.1
80.30.43.53.9
Total$233.6$1.6$169.6$0.9$5.1$6.0
Principal amount outstandingJPMorgan Chase interest in securitized 
assets in nonconsolidated VIEs(c)(d)(e)
December 31, 2014
(a) (in billions)Total assetsheld bysecuritizationVIEsAssets heldinconsolidatedsecuritizationVIEsAssets held innonconsolidatedsecuritizationVIEs withcontinuinginvolvementTradingassetsAFSsecuritiesTotalinterests heldby JPMorganChaseSecuritization-related
Residential mortgage:Prime/Alt-A and option ARMs$96.3$2.7$78.3$0.5$0.7$1.2
Subprime28.40.8
25.70.1—0.1
Commercial and other
(b)129.60.2
94.40.43.53.9
Total$254.3$3.7$198.4$1.0$4.2$5.2
(a) Excludes U.S. government agency securitizations. See pages 272–273 of this Note for information on the Firm’s loan sales to
 U.S. government agencies.
(b) Consists of securities backed by commercial loans (predominan
tly real estate) and non-mortgage-related consumer receivables purchased from third 
parties. The Firm generally does not retain a residual interest in its sponsored commercial mortgage securitization transactions.
(c) The table above excludes the following: retained servicing (see Note 17 for a discussion of MSRs); securities retained from
 loan sales to U.S. government 
agencies; interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives primarily used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange risks of securitization entities (See 
Note 6 for further information on derivatives); senior and subordinated securities of $163 million and $73 million, respectivel
y, at December 31, 2015, 
and $136 million and $34 million, respectively, at December 31, 2014, which the Firm purchased in connection with CIB’s seconda
ry market-making 
activities.(d) Includes interests held in re-securitization transactions.

(e) As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, 76% and 77%, respectively, of the Firm’s retained securitization interests, which are carried at fair value, were risk-
rated “A” or better, on an S&P-equivalent basis. The retained interests in prime residential mortgages consisted of $1.9 billio
n and $1.1 billion of 
investment-grade and $93 million and $185 million of noninvestment-grade retained interests at December 31, 2015 and 2014, resp
ectively. The 
retained interests in commercial and other securitizations trusts consisted of $3.7 billion and $3.7 billion of investment-grad
e and $198 million and $194 million of noninvestment-grade retained interests at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
268JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportResidential mortgage
The Firm securitizes residential mortgage loans originated 

by CCB, as well as residential mortgage loans purchased 

from third parties by either CCB or CIB. CCB generally 

retains servicing for all residential mortgage loans 

originated or purchased by CCB, and for certain mortgage 

loans purchased by CIB. For securitizations holding loans 

serviced by CCB, the Firm has the power to direct the 

significant activities of the VIE because it is responsible for 

decisions related to loan modifications and workouts. CCB 

may also retain an interest upon securitization.
In addition, CIB engages in underwriting and trading 
activities involving securities issued by Firm-sponsored 

securitization trusts. As a result, CIB at times retains senior 

and/or subordinated interests (including residual interests) 

in residential mortgage securitizations at the time of 

securitization, and/or reacquires positions in the secondary 

market in the normal course of business. In certain 

instances, as a result of the positions retained or reacquired 

by CIB or held by CCB, when considered together with the 

servicing arrangements entered into by CCB, the Firm is 

deemed to be the primary beneficiary of certain 

securitization trusts. See the table on page 271 of this Note 
for more information on consolidated residential mortgage 

securitizations.The Firm does not consolidate a residential mortgage 
securitization (Firm-sponsored or third-party-sponsored) 

when it is not the servicer (and therefore does not have the 

power to direct the most significant activities of the trust) 

or does not hold a beneficial interest in the trust that could 

potentially be significant to the trust. At December 31, 

2015 and 2014, the Firm did not consolidate the assets of 

certain Firm-sponsored residential mortgage securitization 

VIEs, in which the Firm had continuing involvement, 

primarily due to the fact that the Firm did not hold an 

interest in these trusts that could potentially be significant 

to the trusts. See the table on page 271 of this Note for 

more information on the consolidated residential mortgage 

securitizations, and the table on the previous page of this 

Note for further information on interests held in 

nonconsolidated residential mortgage securitizations.
Commercial mortgages and other consumer securitizations
CIB originates and securitizes commercial mortgage loans, 

and engages in underwriting and trading activities involving 

the securities issued by securitization trusts. CIB may retain 

unsold senior and/or subordinated interests in commercial 

mortgage securitizations at the time of securitization but, 

generally, the Firm does not service commercial loan 

securitizations. For commercial mortgage securitizations 

the power to direct the significant activities of the VIE 

generally is held by the servicer or investors in a specified 

class of securities (“controlling class”). See the table on 

page 271 of this Note for more information on the 

consolidated commercial mortgage securitizations, and the 

table on the previous page of this Note for further 

information on interests held in nonconsolidated 

securitizations.The Firm retains servicing responsibilities for certain 

student loan securitizations. The Firm has the power to 

direct the activities of these VIEs through these servicing 

responsibilities. See the table on page 271 of this Note for 

more information on the consolidated student loan 

securitizations, and the table on the previous page of this 

Note for further information on interests held in 

nonconsolidated securitizations.Re-securitizations
The Firm engages in certain re-securitization transactions in 

which debt securities are transferred to a VIE in exchange 

for new beneficial interests. These transfers occur in 

connection with both agency (Federal National Mortgage 

Association (“Fannie Mae”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage 

Company (“Freddie Mac”) and Ginnie Mae) and nonagency 

(private-label) sponsored VIEs, which may be backed by 

either residential or commercial mortgages. The Firm’s 

consolidation analysis is largely dependent on the Firm’s 

role and interest in the re-securitization trusts. During the 

years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Firm 

transferred $21.9 billion, $22.7 billion and $25.3 billion, 

respectively, of securities to agency VIEs, and $777 million, 

$1.1 billion and $55 million, respectively, of securities to 

private-label VIEs.
Most re-securitizations with which the Firm is involved are 
client-driven transactions in which a specific client or group 

of clients is seeking a specific return or risk profile. For 

these transactions, the Firm has concluded that the 

decision-making power of the entity is shared between the 

Firm and its clients, considering the joint effort and 

decisions in establishing the re-securitization trust and its 

assets, as well as the significant economic interest the client 
holds in the re-securitization trust; therefore the Firm does 

not consolidate the re-securitization VIE.
In more limited circumstances, the Firm creates a re-
securitization trust independently and not in conjunction 
with specific clients. In these circumstances, the Firm is 

deemed to have the unilateral ability to direct the most 

significant activities of the re-securitization trust because of 

the decisions made during the establishment and design of 

the trust; therefore, the Firm consolidates the re-

securitization VIE if the Firm holds an interest that could 

potentially be significant.
Additionally, the Firm may invest in beneficial interests of 
third-party re-securitizations and generally purchases these 

interests in the secondary market. In these circumstances, 

the Firm does not have the unilateral ability to direct the 

most significant activities of the re-securitization trust, 

either because it was not involved in the initial design of the 

trust, or the Firm is involved with an independent third-

party sponsor and demonstrates shared power over the 

creation of the trust; therefore, the Firm does not 

consolidate the re-securitization VIE.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report269As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, total assets (including 
the notional amount of interest-only securities) of 

nonconsolidated Firm-sponsored private-label re-

securitization entities in which the Firm has continuing 

involvement were $2.2 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. 

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm held $4.6 billion 

and $2.4 billion, respectively, of interests in 

nonconsolidated agency re-securitization entities. The 

Firm’s exposure to non-consolidated private-label re-

securitization entities as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 
was not material. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the 
Firm did not consolidate any agency re-securitizations. As of 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm consolidated an 

insignificant amount of assets and liabilities of Firm-

sponsored private-label re-securitizations.
Multi-seller conduits
Multi-seller conduit entities are separate bankruptcy 

remote entities that provide secured financing, 

collateralized by pools of receivables and other financial 

assets, to customers of the Firm. The conduits fund their 

financing facilities through the issuance of highly rated 

commercial paper. The primary source of repayment of the 

commercial paper is the cash flows from the pools of assets. 

In most instances, the assets are structured with deal-

specific credit enhancements provided to the conduits by 

the customers (i.e., sellers) or other third parties. Deal-

specific credit enhancements are generally structured to 

cover a multiple of historical losses expected on the pool of 

assets, and are typically in the form of overcollateralization 

provided by the seller. The deal-specific credit 

enhancements mitigate the Firm’s potential losses on its 

agreements with the conduits.
To ensure timely repayment of the commercial paper, and 
to provide the conduits with funding to provide financing to 

customers in the event that the conduits do not obtain 

funding in the commercial paper market, each asset pool 

financed by the conduits has a minimum 100% deal-
specific liquidity facility associated with it provided by 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. also 

provides the multi-seller conduit vehicles with uncommitted 

program-wide liquidity facilities and program-wide credit 

enhancement in the form of standby letters of credit. The 

amount of program-wide credit enhancement required is 

based upon commercial paper issuance and approximates 

10% of the outstanding balance.
The Firm consolidates its Firm-administered multi-seller 
conduits, as the Firm has both the power to direct the 

significant activities of the conduits and a potentially 
significant economic interest in the conduits. As 

administrative agent and in its role in structuring 

transactions, the Firm makes decisions regarding asset 

types and credit quality, and manages the commercial 

paper funding needs of the conduits. The Firm’s interests 

that could potentially be significant to the VIEs include the 
fees received as administrative agent and liquidity and 

program-wide credit enhancement provider, as well as the 

potential exposure created by the liquidity and credit 
enhancement facilities provided to the conduits. See page 

271 of this Note for further information on consolidated VIE 

assets and liabilities.In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase makes 
markets in and invests in commercial paper issued by the 

Firm-administered multi-seller conduits. The Firm held 

$15.7 billion and $5.7 billion of the commercial paper 

issued by the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Firm’s 

investments reflect the Firm’s funding needs and capacity 

and were not driven by market illiquidity. The Firm is not 

obligated under any agreement to purchase the commercial 

paper issued by the Firm-administered multi-seller 

conduits.
Deal-specific liquidity facilities, program-wide liquidity and 
credit enhancement provided by the Firm have been 

eliminated in consolidation. The Firm or the Firm-

administered multi-seller conduits provide lending-related 

commitments to certain clients of the Firm-administered 

multi-seller conduits. The unfunded portion of these 

commitments was $5.6 billion and $9.9 billion at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and are 

reported as off-balance sheet lending-related commitments. 

For more information on off-balance sheet lending-related 

commitments, see Note 29.
VIEs associated with investor intermediation activities 
As a financial intermediary, the Firm creates certain types 

of VIEs and also structures transactions with these VIEs, 

typically using derivatives, to meet investor needs. The Firm 

may also provide liquidity and other support. The risks 

inherent in the derivative instruments or liquidity 

commitments are managed similarly to other credit, market 

or liquidity risks to which the Firm is exposed. The principal 

types of VIEs for which the Firm is engaged in on behalf of 

clients are municipal bond vehicles.
Municipal bond vehiclesMunicipal bond vehicles or tender option bond (“TOB”) 

trusts allow investors to finance their municipal bond 

investments at short-term rates. In a typical TOB 

transaction, the trust purchases highly rated municipal 

bond(s) of a single issuer and funds the purchase by issuing 

two types of securities: (1) puttable floating-rate 

certificates (“Floaters”) and (2) inverse floating-rate 

residual interests (“Residuals”). The Floaters are typically 

purchased by money market funds or other short-term 

investors and may be tendered, with requisite notice, to the 

TOB trust. The Residuals are retained by the investor 

seeking to finance its municipal bond investment.
 TOB 
transactions where the Residual is held by a third party 

investor are typically known as Customer TOB trusts, and 

Non-Customer TOB trusts are transactions where the 

Residual is retained by the Firm. The Firm serves as sponsor 

for all Non-Customer TOB transactions and certain 

Customer TOB transactions established prior to 2014. The 

Firm may provide various services to a TOB trust, including 

remarketing agent, liquidity or tender option provider, and/

or sponsor.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
270JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportJ.P. Morgan Securities LLC may serve as a remarketing 
agent on the Floaters for TOB trusts. The remarketing agent 

is responsible for establishing the periodic variable rate on 

the Floaters, conducting the initial placement and 

remarketing tendered Floaters. The remarketing agent may, 

but is not obligated to make markets in Floaters. At 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm held an 

insignificant amount of these Floaters on its Consolidated 

balance sheets and did not hold any significant amounts 
during 2015.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 
often serves as the sole liquidity or tender option provider 

for the TOB trusts. The liquidity provider’s obligation to 

perform is conditional and is limited by certain events 

(“Termination Events”), which include bankruptcy or failure 

to pay by the municipal bond issuer or credit enhancement 

provider, an event of taxability on the municipal bonds or 

the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to below 

investment grade. In addition, the liquidity provider’s 

exposure is typically further limited by the high credit 

quality of the underlying municipal bonds, the excess 

collateralization in the vehicle, or, in certain transactions, 

the reimbursement agreements with the Residual holders.
Holders of the Floaters may “put,” or tender, their Floaters 

to the TOB trust. If the remarketing agent cannot 

successfully remarket the Floaters to another investor, the 

liquidity provider either provides a loan to the TOB trust for 

the purchase of or directly purchases the tendered Floaters. 

In certain Customer TOB transactions, the Firm, as liquidity 

provider, has entered into a reimbursement agreement with 

the Residual holder. In those transactions, upon the 

termination of the vehicle, if the proceeds from the sale of 

the underlying municipal bonds are not sufficient to repay 

amounts owed to the Firm, as liquidity or tender option 

provider, the Firm has recourse to the third party Residual 

holders for any shortfall. Residual holders with 

reimbursement agreements are required to post collateral 

with the Firm to support such reimbursement obligations 

should the market value of the underlying municipal bonds 

decline. The Firm does not have any intent to protect 

Residual holders from potential losses on any of the 

underlying municipal bonds.
TOB trusts are considered to be variable interest entities. 
The Firm consolidates Non-Customer TOB trusts because as 

the Residual holder, the Firm has the right to make 

decisions that significantly impact the economic 
performance of the municipal bond vehicle, and have the 

right to receive benefits and bear losses that could 

potentially be significant to the municipal bond vehicle. The 

Firm does not consolidate Customer TOB trusts, since the 

Firm does not have the power to make decisions that 

significantly impact the economic performance of the 

municipal bond vehicle. Certain non-consolidated Customer 

TOB trusts are sponsored by a third party, and not the Firm. 

See page 271 of this Note for further information on 
consolidated municipal bond vehicles.
The Firm’s exposure to nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs at December 31, 2015 and 2014, including the ratings profile of 

the VIEs’ assets, was as follows.
December 31, 
(in billions)Fair value of assetsheld by VIEsLiquidity facilitiesExcess
(a)MaximumexposureNonconsolidated municipal bond vehicles2015$6.9$3.8$3.1$3.8

201411.56.35.26.3
Ratings profile of VIE assets
(b)Fair value ofassets heldby VIEsWt. avg.expected lifeof assets(years)Investment-gradeNoninvestment-gradeDecember 31, 
(in billions, except where otherwise noted)
AAA toAAA-AA+ to AA-A+ to A-
BBB+ toBBB-BB+ and below
2015$1.7$4.6$0.5$—$0.1$6.94.0
20142.78.40.4——$11.54.9
(a) Represents the excess of the fair values of municipal bond assets available to repay the liquidity facilities, if drawn.
(b) The ratings scale is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report271VIEs sponsored by third parties
The Firm enters into transactions with VIEs structured by 

other parties. These include, for example, acting as a 

derivative counterparty, liquidity provider, investor, 

underwriter, placement agent, remarketing agent, trustee 

or custodian. These transactions are conducted at arm’s-

length, and individual credit decisions are based on the 

analysis of the specific VIE, taking into consideration the 
quality of the underlying assets. Where the Firm does not 

have the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most 

significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance, or a 

variable interest that could potentially be significant, the 

Firm records and reports these positions on its Consolidated 

balance sheets similarly to the way it would record and 

report positions in respect of any other third-party 

transaction.
Consolidated VIE assets and liabilities
The following table presents information on assets and liabilities 
related to VIEs consolidated by the Firm as of December 31, 
2015 and 2014.AssetsLiabilitiesDecember 31, 2015 (in billions)(a)TradingassetsLoansOther
(c)
Total 
assets(d)Beneficial interests in 
VIE assets(e)
Other(f)
TotalliabilitiesVIE program typeFirm-sponsored credit card trusts$—$47.4$0.7$48.1$27.9$—$27.9
Firm-administered multi-seller conduits—24.4—24.48.7—8.7
Municipal bond vehicles2.7——2.72.6—2.6
Mortgage securitization entities
(b)0.81.4
—2.2
0.80.71.5
Student loan securitization entities—1.90.12.0
1.8—1.8
Other0.2—2.02.2
0.10.10.2
Total$3.7$75.1$2.8$81.6$41.9$0.8$42.7
AssetsLiabilitiesDecember 31, 2014 (in billions)
(a)TradingassetsLoansOther
(c)
Total 
assets(d)Beneficial interests in 
VIE assets(e)
Other(f)
TotalliabilitiesVIE program type
Firm-sponsored credit card trusts$—$48.3$0.7$49.0$31.2$—$31.2

Firm-administered multi-seller conduits—17.70.117.812.0—12.0

Municipal bond vehicles5.3——5.34.9—4.9

Mortgage securitization entities
(b)3.30.7
—4.0
2.10.82.9
Student loan securitization entities0.22.2
—2.4
2.1—2.1
Other0.3—1.01.3—0.20.2

Total$9.1$68.9$1.8$79.8$52.3$1.0$53.3
(a) Excludes intercompany transactions, which were eliminated in consolidation.
(b) Includes residential and commercial mortgage securitizations as well as re-securitizations.

(c) Includes assets classified as cash, AFS securities, and other assets within the Consolidated balance sheets.

(d) The assets of the consolidated VIEs included in the program types above are used to settle the liabilities of those entitie
s. The difference between total 
assets and total liabilities recognized for consolidated VIEs represents the Firm’s interest in the consolidated VIEs for each 
program type.
(e) The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs are classified in the line item on the Consolidated balance sheets titled, 
“Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.” The holders of these beneficial interests do not have
 recourse to the general credit 
of JPMorgan Chase. Included in beneficial interests in VIE assets are long-term beneficial interests of $30.6 billion and $35.4
 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The maturities of the long-term beneficial interests as of December 31, 2015, were as follows: $5.1 billion under one year, 

$21.6 billion between one and five years, and $3.9 billion over five years, all respectively.
(f) Includes liabilities classified as accounts payable and other liabilities in the Consolidated balance sheets.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
272JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportLoan securitizations
The Firm has securitized and sold a variety of loans, 

including residential mortgage, credit card, student and 

commercial (primarily related to real estate) loans, as well 

as debt securities. The purposes of these securitization 
transactions were to satisfy investor demand and to 

generate liquidity for the Firm.
For loan securitizations in which the Firm is not required to 
consolidate the trust, the Firm records the transfer of the 

loan receivable to the trust as a sale when all of the 

following accounting criteria for a sale are met: (1) the 

transferred financial assets are legally isolated from the 

Firm’s creditors; (2) the transferee or beneficial interest 
holder can pledge or exchange the transferred financial 

assets; and (3) the Firm does not maintain effective control 

over the transferred financial assets (e.g., the Firm cannot repurchase the transferred assets before their maturity and 

it does not have the ability to unilaterally cause the holder 

to return the transferred assets).
For loan securitizations accounted for as a sale, the Firm 
recognizes a gain or loss based on the difference between 

the value of proceeds received (including cash, beneficial 

interests, or servicing assets received) and the carrying 

value of the assets sold. Gains and losses on securitizations 

are reported in noninterest revenue.
Securitization activity
The following table provides information related to the Firm’s securitization activities for the years ended December 31, 2015,
 2014 and 2013, related to assets held in JPMorgan Chase-sponsored securitization entities that were not consolidated by the 

Firm, and where sale accounting w
as achieved based on the accounting rules in effect at the time of the securitization.
201520142013
Year ended December 31,
(in millions, except rates)
(a)Residential 
mortgage
(d)(e)
Commercial 
and other(e)(f)
Residential 
mortgage
(d)(e)
Commercial 
and other(e)(f)
Residential 
mortgage
(d)(e)
Commercial 
and other(e)(f)
Principal securitized$3,008$11,933
$2,558$11,911$1,404$11,318
All cash flows during the period:Proceeds from new securitizations
(b)$3,022$12,011
$2,569$12,079$1,410$11,507
Servicing fees collected5283
55745765
Purchases of previously transferred financial assets 
(or the underlying collateral)
(c)
3—121—294—Cash flows received on interests407597
179578156325
(a) Excludes re-securitization transactions.
(b) Proceeds from residential mortgage securitizations were received in the form of securities. During 2015, $3.0 billion of re
sidential mortgage 
securitizations were received as securities and classified in level 2, and $59 million were classified in level 3 of the fair v
alue hierarchy. During 2014, $2.4 
billion of residential mortgage securitizations were received as securities and classified in level 2, and $185 million were cl
assified in level 3 of the fair 

value hierarchy. During 2013, $1.4 billion of residential mortgage securitizations were received as securities and classified i
n level 2. Proceeds from 
commercial mortgage securitizations were received as securities and cash. During 2015, $12.0 billion of proceeds from commercia
l mortgage 
securitizations were received as securities and classified in level 2, and $43 million of proceeds were classified in level 3 o
f the fair value hierarchy; and 

zero of proceeds from commercial mortgage securitizations were received as cash. During 2014, $11.4 billion of proceeds from co
mmercial mortgage 

securitizations were received as securities and classified in level 2, and $130 million of proceeds were classified in level 3 
of the fair value hierarchy: and 

$568 million of proceeds from commercial mortgage securitizations were received as cash. During 2013, $11.3 billion of commerci
al mortgage 
securitizations were classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and $207 million of proceeds from commercial mortgage s
ecuritizations were received 
as cash.(c) Includes cash paid by the Firm to reacquire assets from off–balance sheet, nonconsolidated entities – for example, loan rep
urchases due to representation 
and warranties and servicer clean-up calls.
(d) Includes prime, Alt-A, subprime, and option ARMs. Excludes certain loan securitization transactions entered into with Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac.
(e) Key assumptions used to measure residential mortgage retained interests originated during the year included weighted-averag
e life (in years) of 4.2, 5.9 
and 3.9 for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and weighted-average discount rate of 2.9%, 3.4% an
d 2.5% for the 

years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Key assumptions used to measure commercial and other retained inter
ests originated during the year included weighted-average life (in years) of 6.2, 6.5 and 8.3 for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, and 

weighted-average discount rate of 4.1%, 4.8% and 3.2% for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(f) Includes commercial and student loan securitizations.
Loans and excess MSRs sold to U.S. government-

sponsored enterprises (“U.S. GSEs”), loans in 

securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae 

guidelines, and other third-party-sponsored 

securitization entities

In addition to the amounts reported in the securitization 

activity tables ab
ove, the Firm, in the normal course of 
business, sells originated and purchased mortgage loans 

and certain originated excess MSRs on a nonrecourse basis, 

predominantly to U.S. GSEs. These loans and excess MSRs 
are sold primarily for the purpose of securitization by the 

U.S. GSEs, who provide certain guarantee provisions (e.g., 

credit enhancement of the loans). The Firm also sells loans 

into securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae 

guidelines; these loans are typically insured or guaranteed 

by another U.S. government agency. The Firm does not 

consolidate the securitization vehicles underlying these 

transactions as it is not the primary beneficiary. For a 

limited number of loan sales, the Firm is obligated to share 

a portion of the credit risk associated with the sold loans 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report273with the purchaser. See Note 29 for additional information 
about the Firm’s loan sales- and securitization-related 

indemnifications.See Note 17 for additional information about the impact of 
the Firm’s sale of certain excess MSRs.
The following table summarizes the activities related to 
loans sold to the U.S. GSEs, loans in securitization 

transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines, and other 

third-party-sponsored securitization entities.
Year ended December 31,
(in millions)201520142013
Carrying value of loans sold$42,161
$55,802$166,028
Proceeds received from loansales as cash$313
$260$782
Proceeds from loans sales as 
securities(a)41,61555,117163,373
Total proceeds received from 
loan sales(b)$41,928
$55,377$164,155
Gains on loan sales(c)
$299
$316$302
(a) Predominantly includes securities from U.S. GSEs and Ginnie Mae that 
are generally sold shortly after receipt.
(b) Excludes the value of MSRs retained upon the sale of loans. Gains on 
loan sales include the value of MSRs.
(c) The carrying value of the loans accounted for at fair value 
approximated the proceeds received upon loan sale.
Options to repurchase delinquent loans
In addition to the Firm’s obligation to repurchase certain 

loans due to material breaches of representations and 

warranties as discussed in Note 29, the Firm also has the 

option to repurchase delinquent loans that it services for 

Ginnie Mae loan pools, as well as for other U.S. government 

agencies under certain arrangements. The Firm typically 

elects to repurchase delinquent loans from Ginnie Mae loan 

pools as it continues to service them and/or manage the 

foreclosure process in accordance with the applicable 

requirements, and such loans continue to be insured or 

guaranteed. When the Firm’s repurchase option becomes 

exercisable, such loans must be reported on the 

Consolidated balance sheets as a loan with a corresponding 

liability. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm had 

recorded on its Consolidated balance sheets $11.1 billion 

and $12.4 billion, respectively, of loans that either had 

been repurchased or for which the Firm had an option to 

repurchase. Predominantly all of these amounts relate to 

loans that have been repurchased from Ginnie Mae loan 

pools. Additionally, real estate owned resulting from 

voluntary repurchases of loans was $343 million and $464 

million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Substantially all of these loans and real estate owned are 

insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. For 

additional information, refer to Note 14.
Loan delinquencies and liquidation losses 

The table below includes information about components of 
nonconsolidated securitized financial assets, in which the Firm has 
continuing involvement, and delinquencies as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.
Securitized assets90 days past dueLiquidation losses
As of or for the year ended December 31, (in millions)201520142015201420152014Securitized loans(a)Residential mortgage:Prime/ Alt-A & option ARMs$66,708
$78,294
$8,325
$11,363
$1,946
$2,166
Subprime22,54925,6595,4486,4731,4311,931Commercial and other80,31994,4381,8081,5223751,267Total loans securitized
(b)$169,576
$198,391
$15,581
$19,358
$3,752
$5,364
(a) Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs were $233.6 billion and $254.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The $169.6 billion 
and $198.4 billion, respectively, of loans securitized at December 31, 2015 and 2014, excludes: $62.4 billion and $52.2 billion
, respectively, of 
securitized loans in which the Firm has no continuing involvement, and $1.6 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively, of loan sec
uritizations consolidated on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2015 and 2014.
(b) Includes securitized loans that were previously recorded at fair value and classified as trading assets.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
274JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 17 – Goodwill and other intangible assetsGoodwillGoodwill is recorded upon completion of a business 

combination as the difference between the purchase price 

and the fair value of the net assets acquired. Subsequent to 

initial recognition, goodwill is not amortized but is tested 

for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal 

year, or more often if events or circumstances, such as 

adverse changes in the business climate, indicate there may 

be impairment.
The goodwill associated with each business combination is allocated to the related reporting units, which are 

determined based on how the Firm’s businesses are 

managed and how they are reviewed by the Firm’s 

Operating Committee. The following table presents goodwill 

attributed to the business segments.
December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Consumer & Community Banking$30,769
$30,941$30,985
Corporate & Investment Bank6,7726,7806,888
Commercial Banking2,8612,8612,862
Asset Management6,9236,9646,969
Corporate—101377
Total goodwill$47,325
$47,647$48,081
The following table presents changes in the carrying 

amount of goodwill.Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Balance at beginning of period$47,647
$48,081$48,175
Changes during the periodfrom:Business combinations284364
Dispositions(160)(b)(80)(5)
Other(a)(190)(397)(153)
Balance at December 31,$47,325
$47,647$48,081
(a) Includes foreign currency translation adjustments, other tax-related 
adjustments, and, during 2014, goodwill impairment associated with 
the Firm’s Private Equity business of $276 million.
(b) Includes $101 million of Private Equity goodwill, which was disposed 
of as part of the Private Equity sale completed in January 2015.
Impairment testing
The Firm’s goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 

2015. Further, except for the goodwill related to its Private 

Equity business, the Firm’s goodwill was not impaired at 

December 31, 2014. $276 million of goodwill was written 

off during 2014 related to the goodwill impairment 

associated with the Firm’s Private Equity business. No 

goodwill was written off due to impairment during 2013.
The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. In 
the first step, the current fair value of each reporting unit is 

compared with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the 

fair value is in excess of the carrying value (including 

goodwill), then the reporting unit’s goodwill is considered 

not to be impaired. If the fair value is less than the carrying 

value (including goodwill), then a second step is performed. 

In the second step, the implied current fair value of the 
reporting unit’s goodwill is determined by comparing the 

fair value of the reporting unit (as determined in step one) 

to the fair value of the net assets of the reporting unit, as if 

the reporting unit were being acquired in a business 

combination. The resulting implied current fair value of 

goodwill is then compared with the carrying value of the 

reporting unit’s goodwill. If the carrying value of the 

goodwill exceeds its implied current fair value, then an 

impairment charge is recognized for the excess. If the 

carrying value of goodwill is less than its implied current 

fair value, then no goodwill impairment is recognized. 
The Firm uses the reporting units’ allocated equity plus 
goodwill capital as a proxy for the carrying amounts of 

equity for the reporting units in the goodwill impairment 

testing. Reporting unit equity is determined on a similar 

basis as the allocation of equity to the Firm’s lines of 

business, which takes into consideration the capital the 

business segment would require if it were operating 

independently, incorporating sufficient capital to address 

regulatory capital requirements (including Basel III), 

economic risk measures and capital levels for similarly 

rated peers. Proposed line of business equity levels are 

incorporated into the Firm’s annual budget process, which 

is reviewed by the Firm’s Board of Directors. Allocated 

equity is further reviewed on a periodic basis and updated 

as needed.The primary method the Firm uses to estimate the fair 
value of its reporting units is the income approach. The 

models project cash flows for the forecast period and use 

the perpetuity growth method to calculate terminal values. 

These cash flows and terminal values are then discounted 

using an appropriate discount rate. Projections of cash 

flows are based on the reporting units’ earnings forecasts, 

which include the estimated effects of regulatory and 

legislative changes (including, but not limited to the Dodd-

Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the 

“Dodd-Frank Act”)), and which are reviewed with the senior 

management of the Firm. The discount rate used for each 

reporting unit represents an estimate of the cost of equity 

for that reporting unit and is determined considering the 

Firm’s overall estimated cost of equity (estimated using the 

Capital Asset Pricing Model), as adjusted for the risk 

characteristics specific to each reporting unit (for example, 

for higher levels of risk or uncertainty associated with the 

business or management’s forecasts and assumptions). To 

assess the reasonableness of the discount rates used for 

each reporting unit management compares the discount 

rate to the estimated cost of equity for publicly traded 

institutions with similar businesses and risk characteristics. 

In addition, the weighted average cost of equity 

(aggregating the various reporting units) is compared with 

the Firms’ overall estimated cost of equity to ensure 

reasonableness.
The valuations derived from the discounted cash flow 
models are then compared with market-based trading and 

transaction multiples for relevant competitors. Trading and 

transaction comparables are used as general indicators to 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report275assess the general reasonableness of the estimated fair 
values, although precise conclusions generally cannot be 

drawn due to the differences that naturally exist between 

the Firm’s businesses and competitor institutions. 

Management also takes into consideration a comparison 
between the aggregate fair value of the Firm’s reporting 

units and JPMorgan Chase’s market capitalization. In 

evaluating this comparison, management considers several 

factors, including (a) a control premium that would exist in 

a market transaction, (b) factors related to the level of 

execution risk that would exist at the firmwide level that do 

not exist at the reporting unit level and (c) short-term 

market volatility and other factors that do not directly 

affect the value of individual reporting units.
Declines in business performance, increases in credit losses, 
increases in equity capital requirements, as well as 

deterioration in economic or market conditions, adverse 

estimates of regulatory or legislative changes or increases 

in the estimated cost of equity, could cause the estimated 

fair values of the Firm’s reporting units or their associated 

goodwill to decline in the future, which could result in a 

material impairment charge to earnings in a future period 

related to some portion of the associated goodwill.
Mortgage servicing rights

Mortgage servicing rights represent the fair value of 

expected future cash flows for performing servicing 

activities for others. The fair value considers estimated 

future servicing fees and ancillary revenue, offset by 

estimated costs to service the loans, and generally declines 

over time as net servicing cash flows are received, 

effectively amortizing the MSR asset against contractual 

servicing and ancillary fee income. MSRs are either 

purchased from third parties or recognized upon sale or 

securitization of mortgage loans if servicing is retained.
As permitted by U.S. GAAP, the Firm has elected to account 
for its MSRs at fair value. The Firm treats its MSRs as a 

single class of servicing assets based on the availability of 

market inputs used to measure the fair value of its MSR 

asset and its treatment of MSRs as one aggregate pool for 

risk management purposes. The Firm estimates the fair 

value of MSRs using an option-adjusted spread (“OAS”) 

model, which projects MSR cash flows over multiple interest 

rate scenarios in conjunction with the Firm’s prepayment 

model, and then discounts these cash flows at risk-adjusted 

rates. The model considers portfolio characteristics, 

contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment 

assumptions, delinquency rates, costs to service, late 

charges and other ancillary revenue, and other economic 

factors. The Firm compares fair value estimates and 

assumptions to observable market data where available, 

and also considers recent market activity and actual 

portfolio experience. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
276JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThe fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest 
rates, including their effect on prepayment speeds. MSRs 

typically decrease in value when interest rates decline 

because declining interest rates tend to increase 

prepayments and therefore reduce the expected life of the 

net servicing cash flows that consist of the MSR asset. 

Conversely, 
securities (e.g., mortgage-backed securities), 
principal-only certificates and certain derivatives (i.e., 
those for which the Firm receives fixed-rate interest 

payments) increase in value when interest rates decline. 

JPMorgan Chase uses combinations of derivatives and 

securities to manage changes in the fair value of MSRs. The 

intent is to offset any interest-rate related changes in the 

fair value of MSRs with changes in the fair value of the 

related risk management instruments.
The following table summarizes MSR activity for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.
As of or for the year ended December 31, (in millions, except where otherwise noted)201520142013
Fair value at beginning of period$7,436
$9,614$7,614
MSR activity:Originations of MSRs5507572,214
Purchase of MSRs435111
Disposition of MSRs(a)(486)(209)(725)
Net additions4995591,490
Changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows(922)(911)(1,102)
Changes in valuation due to inputs and assumptions:Changes due to market interest rates and other
(b)(160)(1,608)2,122
Changes in valuation due to other inputs and assumptions:Projected cash flows (e.g., cost to service)(112)133109
Discount rates(10)(459)(e)(78)Prepayment model changes and other
(c)
(123)108(541)
Total changes in valuation due to other inputs and assumptions(245)
(218)(510)
Total changes in valuation due to inputs and assumptions$(405)
$(1,826)$1,612
Fair value at December 31,$6,608
$7,436$9,614
Change in unrealized gains/(losses) included in income related to MSRs  held at December 31,$(405)
$(1,826)$1,612
Contractual service fees, late fees and other ancillary fees included in income$2,533
$2,884$3,309
Third-party mortgage loans serviced at December 31, (in billions)$677
$756$822
Servicer advances, net of an allowance 

  for uncollectible amounts, at December 31, (in billions)
(d)$6.5
$8.5$9.6
(a) For 2014 and 2013, predominantly represents excess MSRs transferred to agency-sponsored trusts in exchange for stripped mor
tgage backed securities (“SMBS”). 
In each transaction, a portion of the SMBS was acquired by third parties at the transaction date; the Firm acquired and has retained the remaining balance of those 
SMBS as trading securities. Also includes sales of MSRs.
(b) Represents both the impact of changes in estimated future prepayments due to changes in market interest rates, and the diff
erence between actual and expected 
prepayments.
(c) Represents changes in prepayments other than those attributable to changes in market interest rates.

(d) Represents amounts the Firm pays as the servicer (e.g., scheduled principal and interest, taxes and insurance), which will 
generally be reimbursed within a short 
period of time after the advance from future cash flows from the trust or the underlying loans. The Firm’s credit risk associated with these servicer advances is 

minimal because reimbursement of the advances is typically senior to all cash payments to investors. In addition, the Firm main
tains the right to stop payment to 
investors if the collateral is insufficient to cover the advance. Ho
wever, certain of these servicer advances may not be recove
rable if they were not made in 
accordance with applicable rules and agreements.
(e) For the year ending December 31, 2014, the negative impact was primarily related to higher capital allocated to the Mortgage Servicing business, which, in turn, 
resulted in an increase in the OAS. The resulting OAS assumption was consistent with capital and return requirements the Firm believed a market participant would 

consider, taking into account factors such as the operatin
g risk environment and regulatory and economic capital requirements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report277The following table presents the components of mortgage 
fees and related income (including the impact of MSR risk 

management activities) for the years ended December 31, 

2015, 2014 and 2013.Year ended December 31,
(in millions)201520142013
CCB mortgage fees and relatedincomeNet production revenue$769
$1,190$3,004
Net mortgage servicing revenue: Operating revenue: 
Loan servicing revenue2,7763,3033,552
Changes in MSR asset fair valuedue to collection/realization of
expected cash flows(917)(905)(1,094)
Total operating revenue1,8592,3982,458
Risk management: 
Changes in MSR asset fair value 

  due to market interest rates 
and other(a)(160)(1,606)2,119
Other changes in MSR asset fair 
value due to other inputs and 

assumptions in model(b)(245)(218)(511)
Change in derivative fair valueand other2881,796(1,875)
Total risk management(117)(28)(267)
Total net mortgage servicingrevenue1,742
2,3702,191
Total CCB mortgage fees andrelated income2,511
3,5605,195
All other2310
Mortgage fees and related income$2,513
$3,563$5,205
(a) Represents both the impact of changes in estimated future 
prepayments due to changes in market interest rates, and the 
difference between actual and expected prepayments.
(b) Represents the aggregate impact of changes in model inputs and 
assumptions such as projected cash flows (e.g., cost to service), 

discount rates and changes in prepayments other than those 

attributable to changes in market in
terest rates (e.g., changes in prepayments due to changes in home prices).
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions 
used to determine the fair value of the Firm’s MSRs at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, and outlines the 
sensitivities of those fair values to immediate adverse 

changes in those assumptions, as defined below.
December 31,
(in millions, except rates)
20152014Weighted-average prepayment speedassumption (“CPR”)9.81%9.80%Impact on fair value of 10% adversechange$(275)
$(337)
Impact on fair value of 20% adversechange(529)(652)Weighted-average option adjusted spread9.02%9.43%Impact on fair value of 100 basis pointsadverse change$(258)
$(300)
Impact on fair value of 200 basis pointsadverse change(498)(578)CPR: Constant prepayment rate.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is 
hypothetical and should be used with caution. Changes in 

fair value based on variation in assumptions generally 

cannot be easily extrapolated, because the relationship of 

the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value 

are often highly interrelated and may not be linear. In this 

table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption 

may have on the fair value is calculated without changing 

any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may 

result in changes in another, which would either magnify or 

counteract the impact of the initial change.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
278JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 18 – Premises and equipment
Premises and equipment, including leasehold 
improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated 

depreciation and amortization. JPMorgan Chase computes 

depreciation using the straight-line method over the 

estimated useful life of an asset. For leasehold 

improvements, the Firm uses the straight-line method 

computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the 

leased facility or the estimated useful life of the leased 

asset. 
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with 
the acquisition or development of internal-use software. 

Once the software is ready for its intended use, these costs 

are amortized on a straight-line basis over the software’s 

expected useful life and reviewed for impairment on an 

ongoing basis. 
Note 19 – DepositsAt December 31, 2015 and 2014, noninterest-bearing and 

interest-bearing deposits were as follows. 
December 31, (in millions)
20152014U.S. officesNoninterest-bearing$392,721
$437,558
Interest-bearingDemand(a) 84,08890,319Savings
(b)486,043466,730Time (included 
$10,916 and $7,501 at fair value)
(c)
 92,87386,301Total interest-bearing deposits663,004
643,350Total deposits in U.S. offices1,055,725
1,080,908Non-U.S. offices
Noninterest-bearing18,92119,078Interest-bearingDemand154,773217,011Savings2,1572,673Time (included 
$1,600 and $1,306 at fair value)
(c)
 48,13943,757Total interest-bearing deposits205,069
263,441Total deposits in non-U.S. offices223,990
282,519Total deposits$1,279,715
$1,363,427
(a) Includes Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (“NOW”) accounts, and 
certain trust accounts.
(b) Includes Money Market Deposit Accounts (“MMDAs”).
(c) Includes structured notes classified as deposits for which the fair value 
option has been elected. For further discussion, see Note 4.
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, time deposits in 

denominations of $250,000 or more were as follows.
December 31, (in millions)20152014U.S. offices$64,519$56,983
Non-U.S. offices48,09143,719

Total$112,610$100,702
At December 31, 2015, the maturities of interest-bearing 
time deposits were as follows. 
December 31, 2015   (in millions)U.S.Non-U.S.
Total201678,24647,791126,037
20172,9401453,085

20182,172392,211

20191,564471,611

20201,6151171,732

After 5 years6,336—6,336

Total$92,873$48,139$141,012
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report279Note 20 – Accounts payable and other liabilities
Accounts payable and other liabilities consist of payables to 
customers; payables to brokers, dealers and clearing 

organizations; payables from security purchases that did 

not settle; income taxes payables; accrued expense, 

including interest-bearing liabilities; and all other liabilities, 

including litigation reserves and obligations to return 

securities received as collateral.
The following table details the components of accounts 

payable and other liabilities.
December 31, (in millions)20152014Brokerage payables
(a)$107,632
$134,467
Accounts payable and other liabilities70,00672,472Total$177,638
$206,939
(a) Includes payables to customers, brokers, dealers and clearing 
organizations, and payables from security purchases that did not settle.
Note 21 – Long-term debt
JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies, although predominantly U.S. dollars, with both fixed 

and variable interest rates. Included in senior and subordinated debt below are various equity-linked or other indexed 

instruments, which the Firm has elected to measure at fair value. Changes in fair value are recorded in principal transactions 

revenue in the Consolidated statements of income. The following table is a summary of long-term debt carrying values 

(including unamortized premiums and discounts, issuance c
osts, valuation adjustments and fair value adjustments, where 
applicable) by remaining contractual maturity as of December 31, 2015.
By remaining maturity at
December 31,
20152014(in millions, except rates)Under 1 year1-5 yearsAfter 5 years
TotalTotalParent companySenior debt:Fixed rate
$12,014$54,200$51,544$117,758
$108,529
Variable rate15,15823,2545,76644,178
42,201Interest rates
(a)0.16-7.00%0.24-7.25%0.31-6.40%0.16-7.25%
0.18-7.25%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
$—$2,292$13,958$16,250
$16,645
Variable rate—1,03891,047
3,452Interest rates
(a)—%1.06-8.53%3.38-8.00%1.06-8.53%
0.48-8.53%Subtotal$27,172$80,784$71,277$179,233
$170,827
Subsidiaries
Federal Home Loan Banks(“FHLB”) advances:Fixed rate$5$30$156$191
$2,204
Variable rate9,70056,6905,00071,390
62,790Interest rates
(a)0.37-0.65%0.17-0.72%0.50-0.70%0.17-0.72%
0.11-2.04%Senior debt:Fixed rate
$631$1,288$3,631$5,550
$5,751
Variable rate10,4937,4562,63920,588
20,082Interest rates
(a)0.47-1.00%0.53-4.61%1.30-7.28%0.47-7.28%
0.26-8.00%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
$1,472$3,647$1,461$6,580
$6,928
Variable rate1,150——1,150
2,362Interest rates
(a)0.83-5.88%6.00%4.38-8.25%0.83-8.25%
0.57-8.25%Subtotal$23,451$69,111$12,887$105,449
$100,117
Junior subordinated debt:Fixed rate$—$—$717$717
$2,185
Variable rate——3,2523,252
3,250Interest rates
(a)—%—%0.83-8.75%0.83-8.75%
0.73-8.75%Subtotal$—$—$3,969$3,969
$5,435
Total long-term debt
(b)(c)(d)
$50,623$149,895$88,133$288,651
(f)(g)$276,379
Long-term beneficial interests:Fixed rate$1,674$10,931$1,594$14,199
$13,949
Variable rate3,39310,6422,32316,358
21,418Interest rates0.45-5.16%0.37-5.23%0.00-15.94%0.00-15.94%
0.05-15.93%Total long-term beneficial 
interests
(e)
$5,067$21,573$3,917$30,557
$35,367
(a) The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year-end, including non-U.S. dollar fixed- and variable-rate issuances, which excludes the 
effects of the associated derivative instruments used in hedge accounting relationships, if applicable. The use of these derivative instruments modifies the Firm’s 
exposure to the contractual interest rates disclosed in the table above. Including the effects of the hedge accounting derivati
ves, the range of modified rates in effect 

at December 31, 2015, for total long-term debt was (0.19)% to 8.88%, versus the contractual range of 0.16% to 8.75% presented i
n the table above. The interest 
rate ranges shown exclude structured notes accounted for at fair value.
(b) Included long-term debt of $76.6 billion and $69.2 billion secured by assets totaling $171.6 billion and $156.7 billion at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The amount of long-term debt secured by assets does not include amounts related to hybrid instruments.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
280JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report(c) Included $33.1 billion and $30.2 billion of long-term debt accounted for at fair value at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respe
ctively.
(d) Included $5.5 billion and $2.9 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The ag
gregate principal amount of these 
notes at their respective maturities is $16.2 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively. The aggregate principal amount reflects t
he contractual principal payment at 
maturity, which may exceed the contractual principal payment at the Firm’s next call date, if applicable.
(e) Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs. Also included $787 million
 and $2.2 billion accounted for at fair 
value at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Excluded short-term commercial paper and other short-term beneficial interes
ts of $11.3 billion and $17.0 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
(f) At December 31, 2015, long-term debt in the aggregate of $39.1 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase, in whole or in part, prior to maturity, 
based on the terms specified in the respective instruments.
(g) The aggregate carrying values of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2015 is $50.6 billion in 2016, $49.5 billion in 2017, $39.2 billion in 
2018, $30.4 billion in 2019 and $30.7 billion in 2020.The weighted-average contractual interest rates for total 
long-term debt excluding structured notes accounted for at 

fair value were 2.34% and 2.42% as of December 31, 

2015 and 2014, respectively. In order to modify exposure 

to interest rate and currency exchange rate movements, 

JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instruments, primarily 

interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps, in 

conjunction with some of its debt issues. The use of these 
instruments modifies the Firm’s interest expense on the 

associated debt. The modified weighted-average interest 

rates for total long-term debt, including the effects of 

related derivative instruments, were 1.64% and 1.50% as 

of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has guaranteed certain long-term 
debt of its subsidiaries, including both long-term debt and 

structured notes. These guarantees rank on parity with the 

Firm’s other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. 

The amount of such guaranteed long-term debt was $152 

million and $352 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively. 
The Firm’s unsecured debt does not contain requirements 
that would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities 

or changes in the structure of the existing debt, provide any 

limitations on future borrowings or require additional 

collateral, based on unfavorable changes in the Firm’s credit 

ratings, financial ratios, earnings or stock price.
Junior subordinated deferrable 
interest debentures held 
by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities 

At December 31, 2015, the Firm had outstanding eight 

wholly owned Delaware statutory business trusts (“issuer 

trusts”) that had issued trust preferred securities.
The junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures 
issued by the Firm to the issuer trusts, totaling $4.0 billion 

and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively, were reflected on the Firm’s Consolidated 

balance sheets in long-term debt, and in the table on the 

preceding page under the caption “Junior subordinated 

debt.” The Firm also records the common capital securities 

issued by the issuer trusts in other assets in its Consolidated 

balance sheets at December 31, 2015 and 2014. Beginning 

in 2014, the debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the 

Firm, less the common capital securities of the issuer trusts, 

began being phased out from inclusion as Tier 1 capital 

under Basel III. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, $992 
million and $2.7 billion of these debentures qualified as 

Tier 1 capital, while $3.0 billion and $2.7 billion qualified 

as Tier 2 capital.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report281The following is a summary of the outstanding trust preferred securities, including unamortized original issue discount, issued
 by each trust, and the junior subordinated deferrable inter
est debenture issued to each trust, as of December 31, 2015.
December 31, 2015
(in millions)Amount of trust preferred 
securities issued by trust(a)Principal amount of debenture 
issued to trust(b)IssuedateStated maturityof trustpreferredsecurities anddebenturesEarliestredemptiondateInterest rate oftrust preferredsecurities anddebenturesInterestpayment/distributiondatesBANK ONE Capital III$474$71720002030Any time8.75%Semiannually
Chase Capital II48349619972027Any timeLIBOR + 0.50%Quarterly
Chase Capital III29630419972027Any timeLIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly
Chase Capital VI24224819982028Any timeLIBOR  + 0.625%Quarterly
First Chicago NBD Capital I24925619972027Any timeLIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly
J.P. Morgan Chase Capital XIII46647720042034Any timeLIBOR + 0.95%Quarterly
JPMorgan Chase Capital XXI83683220072037Any timeLIBOR  + 0.95%Quarterly
JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIII64463920072047Any timeLIBOR + 1.00%Quarterly
Total$3,690$3,969
(a) Represents the amount of trust preferred securities issued to the public by each trust, including unamortized original-issu
e discount.
(b) Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures issued to each trust, including unamortized original-issue dis
count. The principal amount 
of debentures issued to the trusts includes the impact of hedging and purchase accounting fair value adjustments that were reco
rded on the Firm’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
On April 2, 2015, the Firm redeemed $1.5 billion, or 100% 
of the liquidation amount, of the guaranteed capital debt 

securities (“trust preferred securities”) of JPMorgan Chase 

Capital XXIX trust preferred securities. On May 8, 2013, the 

Firm redeemed approximately $5.0 billion, or 100% of the 

liquidation amount, of the following eight series of trust 

preferred securities: JPMorgan Chase Capital X, XI, XII, XIV, 

XVI, XIX and XXIV, and BANK ONE Capital VI. Other income 

for the year ended December 31, 2013, reflected a modest 

loss related to the redemption of trust preferred securities.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
282JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 22 – Preferred stock
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, JPMorgan Chase was 
authorized to issue 200 million shares of preferred stock, in 

one or more series, with a par value of $1 per share.
In the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Firm, 

JPMorgan Chase’s preferred stock then outstanding takes 

precedence over the Firm’s common stock for the payment 

of dividends and the distribution of assets.The following is a summary of JPMorgan Chase’s non-cumulative preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2015 and 

2014.Shares at December 31,
(a)Carrying value(in millions)at December 31,Issue dateContractual 
rate
 in effect at
 December 31,
 2015EarliestredemptiondateDate atwhichdividendratebecomesfloatingFloating annualrate ofthree-monthLIBOR plus:2015201420152014Fixed-rate:Series O125,750125,750$1,258
$1,2588/27/2012
5.500%9/1/2017NANA
Series P90,00090,0009009002/5/2013
5.4503/1/2018NANA
Series T92,50092,5009259251/30/2014
6.7003/1/2019NANA
Series W88,00088,0008808806/23/2014
6.3009/1/2019NANA
Series Y143,000—1,430—2/12/2015
6.1253/1/2020NANA
Series AA142,500—1,425—6/4/2015
6.1009/1/2020NANA
Series BB115,000—1,150—7/29/2015
6.1509/1/2020NANA
Fixed-to-floating-rate:Series I600,000600,0006,0006,0004/23/2008
7.900%4/30/20184/30/2018LIBOR + 3.47%
Series Q150,000150,0001,5001,5004/23/2013
5.1505/1/20235/1/2023LIBOR + 3.25
Series R150,000150,0001,5001,5007/29/2013
6.0008/1/20238/1/2023LIBOR + 3.30
Series S200,000200,0002,0002,0001/22/20146.7502/1/20242/1/2024LIBOR + 3.78
Series U100,000100,0001,0001,0003/10/2014
6.1254/30/20244/30/2024LIBOR + 3.33
Series V250,000250,0002,5002,5006/9/2014
5.0007/1/20197/1/2019LIBOR + 3.32
Series X160,000160,0001,6001,6009/23/2014
6.10010/1/202410/1/2024LIBOR + 3.33
Series Z200,000—2,000—4/21/2015
5.3005/1/20205/1/2020LIBOR + 3.80
Total preferred stock2,606,750
2,006,250$26,068
$20,063
(a) Represented by depositary shares.
Each series of preferred stock has a liquidation value and 

redemption price per share of $10,000, plus any accrued 

but unpaid dividends.Dividends on fixed-rate preferred stock are payable 
quarterly. Dividends on fixed-to-floating-rate preferred 

stock are payable semiannually while at a fixed rate, and 

will become payable quarterly after converting to a floating 

rate.
On September 1, 2013, the Firm redeemed all of the 
outstanding shares of its 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred 

Stock, Series J at their stated redemption value.
Redemption rights

Each series of the Firm’s preferred stock may be redeemed 
on any dividend payment date on or after the earliest 

redemption date for that series. All outstanding preferred 

stock series except Series I may also be redeemed following 

a “capital treatment event”, as described in the terms of 

each series. Any redemption of the Firm’s preferred stock is 

subject to non-objection from the Board of Governors of the 

Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”).
Note 23 – Common stockAt December 31, 2015 and 2014, JPMorgan Chase was 

authorized to issue 9.0 billion shares of common stock with 

a par value of $1 per share.
Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from 
treasury) by JPMorgan Chase during the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows.
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Total issued – balance atJanuary 1 and December 314,104.9
4,104.94,104.9
Treasury – balance at January 1(390.1)(348.8)(300.9)
Purchase of treasury stock(89.8)(82.3)(96.1)
Issued from treasury:Employee benefits andcompensation plans32.839.847.1
Issuance of shares for warrantexercise4.7——Employee stock purchase plans1.01.21.1
Total issued from treasury38.5
41.048.2
Total treasury – balance atDecember 31(441.4)(390.1)(348.8)
Outstanding at December 313,663.5
3,714.83,756.1
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report283At December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, the 
Firm had 47.4 million, 59.8 million and 59.8 million 

warrants outstanding to purchase shares of common stock 

(the “Warrants”). The Warrants are currently traded on the 

New York Stock Exchange, and they are exercisable, in 

whole or in part, at any time and from time to time until 

October 28, 2018. The original warrant exercise price was 

$42.42 per share. The number of shares issuable upon the 

exercise of each warrant and the warrant exercise price is 

subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain 

events, including, but not limited to, the extent to which 

regular quarterly cash dividends exceed $0.38 per share. 

As a result of the Firm’s quarterly common stock dividend 

exceeding $0.38 per share commencing with the second 

quarter of 2014, the exercise price of the Warrants has 

been adjusted each subsequent quarter, and was $42.284 

as of December 31, 2015. There has been no change in the 

number of shares issuable upon exercise.
On March 11, 2015, in conjunction with the Federal 
Reserve’s release of its 2015 Comprehensive Capital 

Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) results, the Firm’s Board of 

Directors has authorized a $6.4 billion common equity (i.e., 

common stock and warrants) repurchase program. As of 

December 31, 2015, $2.7 billion (on a settlement-date 

basis) of authorized repurchase capacity remained under 

the program. This authorization includes shares 

repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm’s equity-

based compensation plans.The following table sets forth the Firm’s repurchases of 
common equity for the years ended December 31, 2015, 

2014 and 2013, on a settlement-date basis. There were no 

warrants repurchased during the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.Year ended December 31, (in millions)201520142013
Total number of shares of common stockrepurchased89.882.396.1
Aggregate purchase price of commonstock repurchases$5,616
$4,760$4,789
The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading 
plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 

1934 to facilitate repurchases in accordance with the 

common equity repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 

repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity 

during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing 

common equity — for example, during internal trading 

“blackout periods.” All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan 

must be made according to a predefined plan established 

when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic 

information. For additional information regarding 

repurchases of the Firm’s equity securities, see Part II, 

Item 5: Market for registrant’s common equity, related 

stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity 

securities, on page 20.As of December 31, 2015, approximately 195 million 

unissued shares of common stock were reserved for 

issuance under various employee incentive, compensation, 

option and stock purchase plans, director compensation 

plans, and the Warrants, as discussed above.
Note 24 – Earnings per shareEarnings per share (“EPS”) is calculated under the two-class 

method under which all earnings (distributed and 

undistributed) are allocated to each class of common stock 

and participating securities based on their respective rights 

to receive dividends. JPMorgan Chase grants restricted 

stock and RSUs to certain employees under its stock-based 

compensation programs, which entitle recipients to receive 

nonforfeitable dividends during the vesting period on a 

basis equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of common 

stock; these unvested awards meet the definition of 

participating securities. Options issued under employee 

benefit plans that have an antidilutive effect are excluded 

from the computation of diluted EPS.
The following table presents the calculation of basic and 
diluted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 

and 2013.Year ended December 31,
(in millions, 
except per share amounts)
201520142013
Basic earnings per shareNet income$24,442
$21,745$17,886
Less: Preferred stock dividends1,5151,125805
Net income applicable to commonequity22,927
20,62017,081
Less: Dividends and undistributedearnings allocated to participatingsecurities521543524
Net income applicable to commonstockholders$22,406
$20,077$16,557
Total weighted-average basicshares outstanding3,700.4
3,763.53,782.4
Net income per share$6.05
$5.33$4.38
Diluted earnings per shareNet income applicable to commonstockholders$22,406
$20,077$16,557
Total weighted-average basic sharesoutstanding3,700.43,763.53,782.4
Add: Employee stock options, SARs 
and warrants
(a)32.434.032.5
Total weighted-average diluted 
shares outstanding(b)3,732.83,797.53,814.9
Net income per share$6.00
$5.29$4.34
(a) Excluded from the computation of diluted EPS (due to the antidilutive effect) 
were certain options issued under employee benefit plans. The aggregate 
number of shares issuable upon the exercise of such options was not material for 
the year ended December 31, 2015, and 1 million and 6 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
(b) Participating securities were included in the calculation of diluted EPS using the 
two-class method, as this computation was more dilutive than the calculation 

using the treasury stock method.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
284JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 25 – Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)
AOCI includes the after-tax change in unrealized gains and losses on investment securities, foreign currency translation 
adjustments (including the impact of related derivatives), cash flow hedging activities, and net loss and prior service costs/

(credit) related to the Firm’s defined benefit pension and OPEB plans. 
Year ended December 31,Unrealized gains/
(losses) on investment 
securities(a)Translationadjustments,net of hedgesCash flowhedgesDefined benefit pensionand OPEB plansAccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome/(loss)(in millions)Balance at December 31, 2012$6,868$(95)$120$(2,791)$4,102
Net change(4,070)(41)(259)1,467(2,903)

Balance at December 31, 2013$2,798$(136)$(139)$(1,324)$1,199

Net change1,975(11)44(1,018)990

Balance at December 31, 2014$4,773$(147)$(95)$(2,342)$2,189

Net change(2,144)(15)51111(1,997)

Balance at December 31, 2015$2,629$(162)$(44)$(2,231)$192
(a) Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of securities accounted for as AFS including,
 as of the date of transfer during 
2014, $9 million of net unrealized losses related to AFS securities that were transferred to HTM. Subsequent to transfer, includes any net unamortized 
unrealized gains and losses related to the transferred securities.
The following table presents the before- and after-tax changes in the components of other comprehensive income/(loss).
201520142013
Year ended December 31, (in millions)Pretax
TaxeffectAfter-taxPretaxTaxeffectAfter-taxPretaxTaxeffectAfter-taxUnrealized gains/(losses) on investmentsecurities:Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during theperiod$(3,315)$1,297$(2,018)
$3,193$(1,170)$2,023$(5,987)$2,323$(3,664)
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/
losses included in net income
(a)(202)76(126)
(77)29(48)(667)261(406)
Net change(3,517)1,373(2,144)
3,116(1,141)1,975(6,654)2,584(4,070)
Translation adjustments:Translation
(b)(1,876)682(1,194)
(1,638)588(1,050)(807)295(512)
Hedges(b)1,885(706)1,179
1,698(659)1,039773(302)471
Net change9(24)(15)
60(71)(11)(34)(7)(41)
Cash flow hedges:
Net unrealized gains/(losses) arising during theperiod(97)35(62)
98(39)59(525)206(319)
Reclassification adjustment for realized (gains)/
losses included in net income
(c)(e)
180(67)113
(24)9(15)101(41)60
Net change83(32)51
74(30)44(424)165(259)
Defined benefit pension and OPEB plans:Prior service credits arising during the period———
(53)21(32)———
Net gains/(losses) arising during the period29(47)(18)
(1,697)688(1,009)2,055(750)1,305
Reclassification adjustments included in 
net income
(d):Amortization of net loss282(106)176
72(29)43321(124)197
Prior service costs/(credits)(36)14(22)
(44)17(27)(43)17(26)
Foreign exchange and other33(58)(25)
39(32)7(14)5(9)
Net change308(197)111
(1,683)665(1,018)2,319(852)1,467
Total other comprehensive income/(loss)$(3,117)$1,120$(1,997)
$1,567$(577)$990$(4,793)$1,890$(2,903)
(a) The pretax amount is reported in securities gains in the Consolidated statements of income.
(b) Reclassifications of pretax realized gains/(losses) on translation adjustments and related hedges are reported in other income/expense in the Consolidated 
statements of income. The amounts were not material for the periods presented.
(c) The pretax amounts are predominantly recorded in net interest income in the Consolidated statements of income.

(d) The pretax amount is reported in compensation expense in the Consolidated statements of income.

(e) In 2015, the Firm reclassified approximately $150 million of net losses from AOCI to other income because the Firm determin
ed that it is probable that 
the forecasted interest payment cash flows will not occur. For additional information, see Note 6.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report285Note 26 – Income taxes
JPMorgan Chase and its eligible subsidiaries file a 
consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. JPMorgan 

Chase uses the asset and liability method to provide income 

taxes on all transactions recorded in the Consolidated 

Financial Statements. This method requires that income 

taxes reflect the expected future tax consequences of 

temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 

assets or liabilities for book and tax purposes. Accordingly, 

a deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary 

difference is determined based on the tax rates that the 

Firm expects to be in effect when the underlying items of 

income and expense are realized. JPMorgan Chase’s 

expense for income taxes includes the current and deferred 

portions of that expense. A valuation allowance is 

established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the 

Firm expects to realize.
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of 
the Firm’s businesses, and from conducting business and 

being taxed in a substantial number of jurisdictions, 

significant judgments and estimates are required to be 

made. Agreement of tax liabilities between JPMorgan Chase 

and the many tax jurisdictions in which the Firm files tax 

returns may not be finalized for several years. Thus, the 

Firm’s final tax-related assets and liabilities may ultimately 

be different from those currently reported.
Effective tax rate and expense
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S. income tax 

rate to the effective tax rate for each of the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, is presented in the 

following table.
Effective tax rateYear ended December 31,201520142013
Statutory U.S. federal tax rate35.0%35.0%35.0%
Increase/(decrease) in tax rateresulting from:U.S. state and local incometaxes, net of U.S. federalincome tax benefit1.52.72.2
Tax-exempt income(3.3)(3.1)(3.0)
Non-U.S. subsidiary earnings
(a)(3.9)(2.0)(4.8)
Business tax credits(3.7)(3.3)(3.4)
Nondeductible legal expense0.82.37.8
Tax audit resolutions(5.7)(1.4)(0.6)
Other, net(0.3)(1.0)(0.3)
Effective tax rate20.4%
29.2%32.9%
(a) Predominantly includes earnings of U.K. subsidiaries that are deemed 
to be reinvested indefinitely.
The components of income tax expense/(benefit) included 
in the Consolidated statements of income were as follows 

for each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 

2013.Income tax expense/(benefit)Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Current income tax expense/(benefit)U.S. federal$3,160
$2,382$(654)
Non-U.S.1,2201,3531,308
U.S. state and local547857(4)
Total current income tax expense/(benefit)4,927
4,592650
Deferred income tax expense/(benefit)
U.S. federal1,2133,8907,216
Non-U.S.(95)
7110
U.S. state and local215401913
Total deferred income tax 
     expense/(benefit)
1,3334,3628,139
Total income tax expense$6,260
$8,954$8,789
Total income tax expense includes $2.4 billion, $451 
million and $531 million of tax benefits recorded in 2015, 

2014, and 2013, respectively, as a result of tax audit 

resolutions. In 2013, the relationship between current and 

deferred income tax expense was largely driven by the 

reversal of significant deferred tax assets as well as prior-

year tax adjustments and audit resolutions.
Tax effect of items recorded in stockholders’ equity
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effect of certain 

items that are recorded each period directly in 

stockholders’ equity and certain tax benefits associated 

with the Firm’s employee stock-based compensation plans. 

The tax effect of all items recorded directly to stockholders’ 

equity resulted in a increase of $1.5 billion in 2015, a 

decrease of $140 million in 2014, and an increase of $2.1 

billion in 2013.Results from Non-U.S. earnings
The following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S. 

components of income before income tax expense for the 

years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
U.S.$23,191
$23,422$17,990
Non-U.S.
(a)7,5117,2778,685
Income before income tax expense$30,702
$30,699$26,675
(a) For purposes of this table, non-U.S. income is defined as income 
generated from operations located outside the U.S.
U.S. federal income taxes have not been provided on the 
undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, to 

the extent that such earnings have been reinvested abroad 

for an indefinite period of time. Based on JPMorgan Chase’s 

ongoing review of the business requirements and capital 

needs of its non-U.S. subsidiaries, combined with the 

formation of specific strategies and steps taken to fulfill 
286JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportthese requirements and needs, the Firm has determined 
that the undistributed earnings of certain of its subsidiaries 

would be indefinitely reinvested to fund current and future 

growth of the related businesses. As management does not 

intend to use the earnings of these subsidiaries as a source 

of funding for its U.S. operations, such earnings will not be 

distributed to the U.S. in the foreseeable future. For 2015, 

pretax earnings of $3.5 billion were generated and will be 

indefinitely reinvested in these subsidiaries. At
 
December 31, 2015, the cumulative amount of 

undistributed pretax earnings in these subsidiaries were 

$34.6 billion. If the Firm were to record a deferred tax 

liability associated with these undistributed earnings, the 

amount would be $8.2 billion at December 31, 2015.These undistributed earnings are related to subsidiaries 
located predominantly in the U.K. where the 2015 statutory 

tax rate was 20.25%.
Affordable housing tax credits
The Firm recognized $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.5 

billion of tax credits and other tax benefits associated with 

investments in affordable housing projects within income 

tax expense for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, 

respectively. The amount of amortization of such 

investments reported in income tax expense under the 

current period presentation during these years was $1.1 

billion, $1.1 billion and $989 million, respectively. The 

carrying value of these investments, which are reported in 

other assets on the Firm’s Consolidated balance sheets, was 

$7.7 billion and $7.3 billion at December 31, 2015 and 
2014, respectively. The amount of commitments related to 

these investments, which are reported in accounts payable 

and other liabilities on the Firm’s Consolidated balance 

sheets, was $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 
2015 and 2014, respectively.
Deferred taxes 

Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) results from 

differences between assets and liabilities measured for 

financial reporting purposes versus income tax return 

purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in 

management’s judgment, their realizability is determined to 

be more likely than not. If a deferred tax asset is 

determined to be unrealizable, a valuation allowance is 

established. The significant components of deferred tax 

assets and liabilities are reflected in the following table as 

of December 31, 2015 and 2014.December 31, (in millions)20152014Deferred tax assetsAllowance for loan losses$5,343
$5,756
Employee benefits2,9723,378Accrued expenses and other7,2998,637Non-U.S. operations5,3655,106Tax attribute carryforwards2,602570Gross deferred tax assets23,581
23,447Valuation allowance(735)(820)Deferred tax assets, net of valuationallowance$22,846
$22,627
Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation and amortization$3,167
$3,073
Mortgage servicing rights, net ofhedges4,9685,533Leasing transactions3,0422,495Non-U.S. operations4,2854,444Other, net4,4195,392Gross deferred tax liabilities19,881
20,937Net deferred tax assets$2,965
$1,690
JPMorgan Chase has recorded deferred tax assets of $2.6 
billion at December 31, 2015, in connection with U.S. 

federal, state and local, and non-U.S. net operating loss 

(“NOL”) carryforwards and foreign tax credit carryforwards. 

At December 31, 2015, total U.S. federal NOL 

carryforwards were approximately $5.2 billion, state and 

local NOL carryforwards were $509 million, and non-U.S. 

NOL carryforwards were $288 million. If not utilized, the 

U.S. federal NOLs will expire between 2025 and 2034 and 

the state and local and non-U.S. NOL carryforwards will 

expire between 2016 and 2017. Non-U.S. tax credit 

carryforwards were $704 million and will expire by 2023.
The valuation allowance at December 31, 2015, was due to 
losses associated with non-U.S. subsidiaries.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report287Unrecognized tax benefitsAt December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, JPMorgan Chase’s 

unrecognized tax benefits, excluding related interest 

expense and penalties, were $3.5 billion, $4.9 billion and 

$5.5 billion, respectively, of which $2.1 billion, $3.5 billion 

and $3.7 billion, respectively, if recognized, would reduce 

the annual effective tax rate. Included in the amount of 

unrecognized tax benefits are certain items that would not 

affect the effective tax rate if they were recognized in the 

Consolidated statements of income. These unrecognized 

items include the tax effect of certain temporary 

differences, the portion of gross state and local 

unrecognized tax benefits that would be offset by the 

benefit from associated U.S. federal income tax deductions, 

and the portion of gross non-U.S. unrecognized tax benefits 

that would have offsets in other jurisdictions. JPMorgan 

Chase is presently under audit by a number of taxing 

authorities, most notably by the Internal Revenue Service as 

summarized in the Tax examination status table below. As 

JPMorgan Chase is presently under audit by a number of 

taxing authorities, it is reasonably possible that over the 

next 12 months the resolution of these examinations may 

increase or decrease the gross balance of unrecognized tax 

benefits by as much as approximately $800 million. Upon 

settlement of an audit, the change in the unrecognized tax 

benefit balance would result from payment or income 

statement recognition.
The following table presents a reconciliation of the 
beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits 

for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.
Year ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Balance at January 1,$4,911
$5,535$7,158
Increases based on tax positionsrelated to the current period408810542
Increases based on tax positionsrelated to prior periods1,02847788
Decreases based on tax positionsrelated to prior periods(2,646)(1,902)(2,200)
Decreases related to cashsettlements with taxing authorities(204)(9)(53)
Balance at December 31,$3,497
$4,911$5,535
After-tax interest expense/(benefit) and penalties related to 
income tax liabilities recognized in income tax expense were 

$(156) million, $17 million and $(184) million in 2015, 
2014 and 2013, respectively.
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, in addition to the liability 
for unrecognized tax benefits, the Firm had accrued $578 

million and $1.2 billion, respectively, for income tax-related 

interest and penalties.
Tax examination status

JPMorgan Chase is continually under examination by the 

Internal Revenue Service, by taxing authorities throughout 

the world, and by many states throughout the U.S. The 

following table summarizes the status of significant income 

tax examinations of JPMorgan Chase and its consolidated 

subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015.December 31, 2015Periods underexaminationStatus
JPMorgan Chase – U.S.2003 – 2005
Field examinationcompleted; atAppellate levelJPMorgan Chase – U.S.2006 – 2010
Field examinationcompleted, JPMorganChase filed amendedreturns and intendsto appealJPMorgan Chase – U.S.2011 – 2013Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase – NewYork State2008 – 2011Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase –California2011 – 2012Field Examination
JPMorgan Chase – U.K.2006 – 2012
Field examination ofcertain select entitiesNotes to consolidated financial statements
288JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 27 – Restrictions on cash and 
intercompany funds transfers
The business of JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association 
(“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”) is subject to examination 

and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the 

Currency. The Bank is a member of the U.S. Federal Reserve 

System, and its deposits in the U.S. are insured by the FDIC.
The Federal Reserve requires depository institutions to 
maintain cash reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank. The 

average required amount of reserve balances deposited by 

the Firm’s bank subsidiaries with various Federal Reserve 

Banks was approximately $14.4 billion and $10.6 billion in 

2015 and 2014, respectively.
Restrictions imposed by U.S. federal law prohibit JPMorgan 
Chase & Co. (“Parent Company”) and certain of its affiliates 

from borrowing from banking subsidiaries unless the loans 

are secured in specified amounts. Such secured loans 

provided by any banking subsidiary to the Parent Company 

or to any particular affiliate, together with certain other 

transactions with such affiliate, (collectively referred to as 

“covered transactions”), are generally limited to 10% of the 

banking subsidiary’s total capital, as determined by the risk-

based capital guidelines; the aggregate amount of covered 

transactions between any banking subsidiary and all of its 

affiliates is limited to 20% of the banking subsidiary’s total 

capital.The principal sources of JPMorgan Chase’s income (on a 
parent company-only basis) are dividends and interest from 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and the other banking and 

nonbanking subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase. In addition to 

dividend restrictions set forth in statutes and regulations, 

the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the 

Currency (“OCC”) and the FDIC have authority under the 

Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit or to limit 

the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they 

supervise, including JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries 

that are banks or bank holding companies, if, in the banking 

regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute 

an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial 

condition of the banking organization.
At January 1, 2016, JPMorgan Chase’s banking subsidiaries 
could pay, in the aggregate, approximately $25 billion in 

dividends to their respective bank holding companies 

without the prior approval of their relevant banking 

regulators. The capacity to pay dividends in 2016 will be 

supplemented by the banking subsidiaries’ earnings during 

the year.
In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S. 

and non-U.S. regulators, as of December 31, 2015 and 

2014, cash in the amount of $12.6 billion and $16.8 
billion, respectively, were segregated in special bank 

accounts for the benefit of securities and futures brokerage 

customers. Also, as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the 

Firm had receivables within other assets of $16.2 billion 

and $14.9 billion, respectively, consisting of cash deposited 

with clearing organizations for the benefit of customers. 

Securities with a fair value of $20.0 billion and $10.1 

billion, respectively, were also restricted in relation to 

customer activity. In addition, as of December 31, 2015 and 

2014, the Firm had other restricted cash of $3.7 billion and 

$3.3 billion, respectively, primarily representing cash 

reserves held at non-U.S. central banks and held for other 

general purposes.
Note 28 – Regulatory capital 
The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, 
including well-capitalized standards, for the consolidated 

financial holding company. The OCC establishes similar 

capital requirements and standards for the Firm’s national 

banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and 

Chase Bank USA, N.A.
Basel III capital rules, for large and internationally active 
U.S. bank holding companies and banks, including the Firm 

and its insured depository institution (“IDI”) subsidiaries, 

revised, among other things, the definition of capital and 

introduced a new common equity tier 1 capital (“CET1 

capital”) requirement. Basel III presents two comprehensive 

methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets (“RWA”), 

a general (Standardized) approach, which replaced Basel I 

RWA effective January 1, 2015 (“Basel III Standardized”) 

and an advanced approach, which replaced Basel II RWA 

(“Basel III Advanced”); and sets out minimum capital ratios 

and overall capital adequacy standards. Certain of the 

requirements of Basel III are subject to phase-in periods 

that began on January 1, 2014 and continue through the 

end of 2018 (“transitional period”). 
There are three categories of risk-based capital under the 
Basel III Transitional rules: CET1 capital, as well as Tier 1 

capital and Tier 2 capital. CET1 capital predominantly 

includes common stockholders’ equity (including capital for 

AOCI related to debt and equity securities classified as AFS 

as well as for defined benefit pension and OPEB plans), less 

certain deductions for goodwill, MSRs and deferred tax 

assets that arise from NOL and tax credit carryforwards. 

Tier 1 capital predominantly consists of CET1 capital as well 

as perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital includes long-

term debt qualifying as Tier 2 and qualifying allowance for 

credit losses. Total capital is Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 

capital.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report289The following tables present the regulatory capital, assets 
and risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its 

significant national bank subsidiaries under both Basel III 
Standardized Transitional and Basel III Advanced 

Transitional at December 31, 2015 and 2014.  
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(f)
Basel III StandardizedTransitionalBasel III AdvancedTransitional(in millions, except ratios)
Dec 31,2015Dec 31,2014Dec 31,2015Dec 31,2014Regulatorycapital   CET1 capital$175,398
$164,426
$175,398
$164,426
Tier 1 capital
(a)200,482186,263200,482186,263Total capital234,413221,117224,616210,576Assets    Risk-weighted
(b)1,465,2621,472,6021,485,3361,608,240Adjusted  
average
(c)
2,361,1772,464,9152,361,1772,464,915Capital ratios
(d)    CET112.0%
11.2%
11.8%
10.2%
Tier 1
(a)13.712.613.511.6Total16.015.015.113.1Tier 1 leverage
(e)
8.57.68.57.6JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(f)
Basel III StandardizedTransitionalBasel III AdvancedTransitional(in millions, 
except ratios)
Dec 31,2015Dec 31,2014Dec 31,2015Dec 31,2014Regulatorycapital   
CET1 capital$168,857
$156,567
$168,857
$156,567
Tier 1 capital
(a)169,222156,891169,222156,891Total capital183,262173,322176,423166,326Assets   Risk-weighted
(b)1,264,0561,230,3581,249,6071,330,175Adjusted  
average
(c)
1,913,4481,968,1311,913,4481,968,131Capital ratios
(d)   CET113.4%
12.7%
13.5%
11.8%
Tier 1
(a)13.412.813.511.8Total14.514.114.112.5Tier 1 leverage
(e)
8.88.08.88.0Chase Bank USA, N.A.
(f)
Basel III StandardizedTransitionalBasel III AdvancedTransitional(in millions, 
except ratios)
Dec 31,2015Dec 31,2014Dec 31,2015Dec 31,2014RegulatorycapitalCET1 capital$15,419$14,556$15,419$14,556
Tier 1 capital
(a)15,41914,55615,41914,556
Total capital21,41820,51720,06919,206
AssetsRisk-weighted
(b)105,807103,468181,775157,565
Adjusted  
average
(c)
134,152128,111134,152128,111
Capital ratios
(d)CET114.6%14.1%8.5%9.2%
Tier 1
(a)14.614.1
8.59.2Total20.219.8
11.012.2
Tier 1 leverage
(e)
11.511.4
11.511.4
(a) At December 31, 2015, trust preferred securities included in Basel III Tier 
1 capital were $992 million and $420 million for JPMorgan Chase and 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., respectively. At December 31, 2015 Chase 

Bank USA, N.A. had no trust preferred securities.
(b) Effective January 1, 2015, the Basel III Standardized RWA is calculated 
under the Basel III definition of the Standardized approach. Prior periods 

were based on Basel I (inclusive of Basel 2.5).
(c) Adjusted average assets, for purposes of calculating the Tier 1 leverage 
ratio, includes total quarterly average assets adjusted for unrealized 

gains/(losses) on securities, less deductions for goodwill and other 

intangible assets, defined benefit pension plan assets, and deferred tax 

assets related to net operating loss carryforwards.
(d) For each of the risk-based capital ratios, the capital adequacy of the Firm 
and its national bank subsidiaries are evaluated against the Basel III 

approach, Standardized or Advanced, resulting in the lower ratio (the 

“Collins Floor”), as required by the Collins Amendment of the Dodd-Frank 

Act. 
(e) The Tier 1 leverage ratio is not a risk-based measure of capital. This ratio 
is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted average assets.
(f) Asset and capital amounts for JPMorgan Chase’s banking subsidiaries 
reflect intercompany transactions; whereas the respective amounts for 

JPMorgan Chase reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions.
Note: Rating agencies allow measures of capital to be adjusted upward for 
deferred tax liabilities, which have resulted from both non-taxable 

business combinations and from tax-deductible goodwill. The Firm had 

deferred tax liabilities resulting from non-taxable business combinations 

of $105 million and $130 million at December 31, 2015, and 2014, 

respectively; and deferred tax liabilities resulting from tax-deductible 

goodwill of $3.0 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2015, and 
2014, respectively.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
290JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportUnder the risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal 
Reserve, JPMorgan Chase is required to maintain minimum 

ratios of CET1, Tier 1 and Total capital to risk-weighted 

assets, as well as minimum leverage ratios (which are 

defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted quarterly 

average assets). Failure to meet these minimum 

requirements could cause the Federal Reserve to take 

action. Bank subsidiaries also are subject to these capital 

requirements by their respective primary regulators. The 

following table presents the minimum ratios to which the 

Firm and its national bank subsidiaries are subject as of 

December 31, 2015. Minimum capital ratios
(a)Well-capitalized ratiosBHC(b) IDI(c)
Capital ratios  CET14.5%—%6.5%
Tier 16.06.08.0
Total8.010.010.0

Tier 1 leverage4.0—5.0
(a) As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC 
and to which the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries are subject.
(b) Represents requirements for bank holding companies pursuant to 
regulations issued by the Federal Reserve.
(c) Represents requirements for bank subsidiaries pursuant to regulations 
issued under the FDIC Improvement Act.
As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, JPMorgan Chase and 
all of its banking subsidiaries were well-capitalized and met 

all capital requirements to which each was subject.
Note 29 – Off–balance sheet lending-related 

financial instruments, guarantees, and other 

commitments
JPMorgan Chase provides lending-related financial 
instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet 

the financing needs of its customers. The contractual 

amount of these financial instruments represents the 

maximum possible credit risk to the Firm should the 

counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be 

required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and 

should the counterparty subsequently fail to perform 

according to the terms of the contract. Most of these 

commitments and guarantees expire without being drawn 

or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractual 

amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm’s view, 

representative of its actual future credit exposure or 

funding requirements. 
To provide for probable credit losses inherent in wholesale 
and certain consumer lending-commitments, an allowance 

for credit losses on lending-related commitments is 

maintained. See Note 15 for further information regarding 

the allowance for credit losses on lending-related 

commitments. The following table summarizes the 

contractual amounts and carrying values of off-balance 

sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and 

other commitments at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The 

amounts in the table below for credit card and home equity 

lending-related commitments represent the total available 

credit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, 

and does not anticipate, that all available lines of credit for 

these products will be utilized at the same time. The Firm 

can reduce or cancel credit card lines of credit by providing 

the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, 

without notice. In addition, the Firm typically closes credit 

card lines when the borrower is 60 days or more past due. 

The Firm may reduce or close home equity lines of credit 

when there are significant decreases in the value of the 

underlying property, or when there has been a 

demonstrable decline in the creditworthiness of the 

borrower. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report291Off–balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitmentsContractual amountCarrying value
(j)
2015201420152014By remaining maturity at December 31, 
(in millions)Expires in1 year orlessExpiresafter1 yearthrough3 yearsExpiresafter3 yearsthrough5 yearsExpiresafter 5yearsTotalTotal
Lending-relatedConsumer, excluding credit card:Home equity – senior lien$1,546$3,817$726$4,743$10,832
$11,807
$—$—Home equity – junior lien2,3754,3546574,53811,924
14,859——Prime mortgage
(a)12,992———12,992
8,579——Subprime mortgage—————
———Auto8,9071,160809010,237
10,46222Business banking11,0856999247512,351
11,8941211Student and other43—135142
552——Total consumer, excluding credit card36,90910,0331,5559,98158,478
58,1531413Credit card515,518———515,518
525,963——Total consumer
(b)552,42710,0331,5559,981573,996
584,1161413Wholesale:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit
(c)(d)(e)
85,86189,925140,6406,899323,325
318,278649491Standby letters of credit and other financial 
guarantees
(c)(d)(e)
16,08314,2875,8192,94439,133
44,272548671Other letters of credit
(c)
3,57030467—3,941
4,33121Total wholesale
(f)(g)
105,514104,516146,5269,843366,399
366,8811,1991,163Total lending-related
$657,941$114,549$148,081$19,824$940,395
$950,997
$1,213
$1,176
Other guarantees and commitments

Securities lending indemnification agreements and 
guarantees
(h)$183,329$—$—$—$183,329
$171,059
$—$—Derivatives qualifying as guarantees
3,19428511,16039,14553,784
53,58922280Unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowingagreements42,482———42,482
40,993——Unsettled repurchase and securities lendingagreements21,798———
21,79842,578——Loan sale and securitization-related indemnifications:Mortgage repurchase liability
 NA NA NA NANA
NA148275Loans sold with recourse NA NA NA NA4,274
6,06382102Other guarantees and commitments
(i)3692,6031,0751,5335,580
5,720(94)(121)(a) Includes certain commitments to purchase loans from correspondents.
(b) Predominantly all consumer lending-related commitments are in the U.S.

(c) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, reflects the contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $385 million and $243 mi
llion, respectively, for other unfunded 
commitments to extend credit; $11.2 billion and $13.0 billion, respectively, for standby letters of credit and other financial 
guarantees; and $341 million and $469 
million, respectively, for other letters of credit. In regulatory filings with the Federal Reserve these commitments are shown gross of risk participations.
(d) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, included credit enhancements and bond and commercial paper liquidity commitments to U.S. states and municipalities, hospitals and 
other nonprofit entities of $12.3 billion and $14.8 billion, respectively, within other unfunded commitments to extend credit; 
and $9.6 billion and $13.3 billion, respectively, within standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees. Other unfunded commitments to extend credit also
 include liquidity facilities to 
nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs; see Note 16.
(e) Effective in 2015, commitments to issue standby letters of credit, including those that could be issued under multipurpose facilities, are presented as other unfunded 
commitments to extend credit. Previously, such commitments were presented as standby letters of credit and other financial guar
antees. At December 31, 2014, these 
commitments were $45.6 billion. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with current period presentation.
(f) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the U.S. portion of the contractual amount of total wholesale lending-related commitments wa
s 77% and 73%, respectively.

(g) Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm no longer includes within its disclosure of wholesale lending-related commitments the unused amount of advised uncommitted lines of 
credit as it is within the Firm’s discretion whether or not to make a loan under these lines, and the Firm’s approval is generally required prior to funding. Prior period 

amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.
(h) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, collateral held by the Firm in support of securities lending indemnification agreements was 
$190.6 billion and $177.1 billion, respectively. Securities lending collateral consist of primarily cash and securities issued by governments that are members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation 

and Development (“OECD”) and U.S. government agencies.
(i) At December 31, 2015 and 2014, included unfunded commitments of $50 million and $147 million, respectively, to third-party private equity funds; and $871 million 
and $961 million, respectively, to other equity investments. These commitments included $73 million and $150 million, respectiv
ely, related to investments that are 
generally fair valued at net asset value as discussed in Note 3. In addition, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, included letters of credit hedged by derivative transactions 

and managed on a market risk basis of $4.6 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively.
(j) For lending-related products, the carrying value represents the allowance for lending-related commitments and the guarantee
 liability; for derivative-related products, the 
carrying value represents the fair value.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
292JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportOther unfunded commitments to extend credit 
Other unfunded commitments to extend credit generally 

consist of commitments for working capital and general 

corporate purposes, extensions of credit to support 

commercial paper facilities and bond financings in the event 

that those obligations cannot be remarketed to new 

investors, as well as committed liquidity facilities to clearing 

organizations. The Firm also issues commitments under 

multipurpose facilities which could be drawn upon in 

several forms, including the issuance of a standby letter of 

credit. 
Also included in other unfunded commitments to extend 
credit are commitments to noninvestment-grade 

counterparties in connection with leveraged finance 

activities, which were $32.1 billion and $23.4 billion at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. For further 

information, see Note 3 and Note 4.
The Firm acts as a settlement and custody bank in the U.S. 
tri-party repurchase transaction market. In its role as 

settlement and custody bank, the Firm is exposed to the 

intra-day credit risk of its cash borrower clients, usually 

broker-dealers. This exposure arises under secured 

clearance advance facilities that the Firm extends to its 

clients (i.e. cash borrowers); these facilities contractually 

limit the Firm’s intra-day credit risk to the facility amount

and must be repaid by the end of the day. As of 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, the secured clearance 

advance facility maximum outstanding commitment amount 

was $2.9 billion and $12.6 billion, respectively.
Guarantees 
U.S. GAAP requires that a guarantor recognize, at the 

inception of a guarantee, a liability in an amount equal to 

the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the 

guarantee. U.S. GAAP defines a guarantee as a contract that 

contingently requires the guarantor to pay a guaranteed 

party based upon: (a) changes in an underlying asset, 

liability or equity security of the guaranteed party; or (b) a 

third party’s failure to perform under a specified 

agreement. The Firm considers the following off–balance 

sheet lending-related arrangements to be guarantees under 

U.S. GAAP: standby letters of credit and financial 

guarantees, securities lending indemnifications, certain 

indemnification agreements included within third-party 

contractual arrangements and certain derivative contracts. 
As required by U.S. GAAP, the Firm initially records 

guarantees at the inception date fair value of the obligation 

assumed (e.g., the amount of consideration received or the net present value of the premium receivable). For certain 

types of guarantees, the Firm records this fair value amount 

in other liabilities with an offsetting entry recorded in cash 

(for premiums received), or other assets (for premiums 

receivable). Any premium receivable recorded in other 

assets is reduced as cash is received under the contract, and 

the fair value of the liability recorded at inception is 

amortized into income as lending and deposit-related fees 

over the life of the guarantee contract. For indemnifications 

provided in sales agreements, a portion of the sale 

proceeds is allocated to the guarantee, which adjusts the 

gain or loss that would otherwise result from the 

transaction. For these indemnifications, the initial liability is 

amortized to income as the Firm’s risk is reduced (i.e., over 

time or when the indemnification expires). Any contingent 

liability that exists as a result of issuing the guarantee or 

indemnification is recognized when it becomes probable 

and reasonably estimable. The contingent portion of the 

liability is not recognized if the estimated amount is less 

than the carrying amount of the liability recognized at 

inception (adjusted for any amortization). The recorded 

amounts of the liabilities related to guarantees and 

indemnifications at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
excluding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related 

commitments, are discussed below. 
Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees 
Standby letters of credit (“SBLC”) and other financial 

guarantees are conditional lending commitments issued by 

the Firm to guarantee the performance of a customer to a 

third party under certain arrangements, such as 

commercial paper facilities, bond financings, acquisition 

financings, trade and similar transactions. The carrying 

values of standby and other letters of credit were $550 

million and $672 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively, which were classified in accounts payable and 

other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets; these 

carrying values included $123 million and $118 million, 

respectively, for the allowance for lending-related 

commitments, and $427 million and $554 million, 

respectively, for the guarantee liability and corresponding 

asset. 
The following table summarizes the types of facilities under which standby letters of credit and other letters of credit 
arrangements are outstanding by the ratings profiles of the Firm’s customers, as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.
Standby letters of credit, other financial guarantees and other letters of credit
20152014December 31,
(in millions)Standby letters of 
credit and other 
financial guarantees
(b)Other letters 
of credit
Standby letters of 
credit and other 
financial guarantees
(b)Other letters 
of credit
Investment-grade
(a)$31,751$3,290
$37,709$3,476
Noninvestment-grade
(a)7,3826516,563855
Total contractual amount$39,133$3,941
$44,272$4,331
Allowance for lending-related commitments$121$2
$117$1
Commitments with collateral18,825996
20,7501,509
(a) The ratings scale is based on the Firm’s internal ratings, which generally correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody’s.
(b) Effective in 2015, commitments to issue standby letters of credit, including those that could be issued under multipurpose facilities, are presented as other unfunded 
commitments to extend credit. Previously, such commitments were presented as standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees. At December 31, 2014, these 
commitments were $45.6 billion. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with current period presentation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report293Securities lending indemnifications Through the Firm’s securities lending program, customers’ 

securities, via custodial and non-custodial arrangements, 

may be lent to third parties. As part of this program, the 

Firm provides an indemnification in the lending agreements 

which protects the lender against the failure of the 

borrower to return the lent securities. To minimize its 

liability under these indemnification agreements, the Firm 

obtains cash or other highly liquid collateral with a market 

value exceeding 100% of the value of the securities on loan 

from the borrower. Collateral is marked to market daily to 

help assure that collateralization is adequate. Additional 

collateral is called from the borrower if a shortfall exists, or 

collateral may be released to the borrower in the event of 

overcollateralization. If a borrower defaults, the Firm would 

use the collateral held to purchase replacement securities in 

the market or to credit the lending customer with the cash 

equivalent thereof. 
Derivatives qualifying as guarantees 
In addition to the contracts described above, the Firm transacts certain derivative contracts that have the 

characteristics of a guarantee under U.S. GAAP. These 

contracts include written put options that require the Firm 

to purchase assets upon exercise by the option holder at a 

specified price by a specified date in the future. The Firm 

may enter into written put option contracts in order to meet 

client needs, or for other trading purposes. The terms of 

written put options are typically five years or less. 

Derivatives deemed to be guarantees also include contracts 

such as stable value derivatives that require the Firm to 

make a payment of the diffe
rence between the market 
value and the book value of a counterparty’s reference 

portfolio of assets in the event that market value is less 

than book value and certain other conditions have been 

met. Stable value derivatives, commonly referred to as 

“stable value wraps”, are transacted in order to allow 

investors to realize investment returns with less volatility 

than an unprotected portfolio and are typically longer-term 

or may have no stated maturity, but allow the Firm to 

terminate the contract under certain conditions. 
Derivatives deemed to be guarantees are recorded on the 
Consolidated balance sheets at fair value in trading assets 

and trading liabilities. The total notional value of the 

derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees was 

$53.8 billion and $53.6 billion at December 31, 2015 and 
2014, respectively. The notional amount generally 

represents the Firm’s maximum exposure to derivatives 

qualifying as guarantees. However, exposure to certain 

stable value contracts is contractually limited to a 

substantially lower percentage of the notional amount; the 

notional amount on these stable value contracts was $28.4 

billion and $27.5 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively, and the maximum exposure to loss was $3.0 

billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively. The fair values of the contracts reflect the 

probability of whether the Firm will be required to perform 

under the contract. The fair value of derivatives that the 

Firm deems to be guarantees were derivative payables of 

$236 million and $102 million and derivative receivables of 

$14 million and $22 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Firm reduces exposures to these 

contracts by entering into offsetting transactions, or by 

entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related to 

the derivative guarantees. 
In addition to derivative contracts that meet the 
characteristics of a guarantee, the Firm is both a purchaser 

and seller of credit protection in the credit derivatives 

market. For a further discussion of credit derivatives, see 

Note 6.Unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowing 
agreements, and unsettled repurchase and securities 

lending agreements

In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into 

reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing 

agreements, which are secured financing agreements. Such 

agreements settle at a future date. At settlement, these 

commitments result in the Firm advancing cash to and 

receiving securities collateral from the counterparty. The 

Firm also enters into repurchase agreements and securities 

lending agreements. At settlement, these commitments 

result in the Firm receiving cash from and providing 

securities collateral to the counterparty. These agreements 

generally do not meet the definition of a derivative, and 

therefore, are not recorded on the Consolidated balance 

sheets until settlement date. These agreements 

predominantly consist of agreements with regular-way 

settlement periods. For a further discussion of securities 

purchased under resale agreements and securities 

borrowed, and securities sold under repurchase agreements 

and securities loaned, see Note 13.Loan sales- and securitization-related indemnifications 
Mortgage repurchase liability 
In connection with the Firm’s mortgage loan sale and 

securitization activities with U.S. GSEs, as described in Note 

16, the Firm has made representations and warranties that 

the loans sold meet certain requirements. The Firm has 

been, and may be, required to repurchase loans and/or 

indemnify U.S. GSEs 
(e.g., with “make-whole” payments to 
reimburse U.S. GSEs for their realized losses on liquidated 

loans). To the extent that repurchase demands that are 

received relate to loans that the Firm purchased from third 

parties that remain viable, the Firm typically will have the 

right to seek a recovery of related repurchase losses from 

the third party. Generally, the maximum amount of future 

payments the Firm would be required to make for breaches 

of these representations and warranties would be equal to 

the unpaid principal balance of such loans that are deemed 

to have defects that were sold to purchasers (including 

securitization-related SPEs) plus, in certain circumstances, 

accrued interest on such loans and certain expense. The 

carrying values of the repurchase liabilities were $148 

million and $275 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively.
Private label securitizations
The liability related to repurchase demands associated with 

private label securitizations is separately evaluated by the 

Firm in establishing its litigation reserves. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
294JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportOn November 15, 2013, the Firm announced that it had 
reached a $4.5 billion agreement with 21 major 

institutional investors to make a binding offer to the 

trustees of 330 residential mortgage-backed securities 

trusts issued by J.P.Morgan, Chase, and Bear Stearns 

(“RMBS Trust Settlement”) to resolve all representation and 

warranty claims, as well as all servicing claims, on all trusts 

issued by J.P. Morgan, Chase, and Bear Stearns between 

2005 and 2008. For further information see Note 31
.In addition, from 2005 to 2008, Washington Mutual made 
certain loan level representations and warranties in 

connection with approximately $165 billion
 of residential 

mortgage loans that were originally sold or deposited into 

private-label securitizations by Washington Mutual. Of the
 
$165 billion, approximately
 $81 billion has been repaid. In 

addition, approximately $50 billion of the principal amount 

of such loans has liquidated with an average loss severity of 

59%. Accordingly, the remaining outstanding principal 

balance of these loans as of December 31, 2015, was 
approximately $33 billion, of which $6 billion was 60 days 

or more past due. The Firm believes that any repurchase 

obligations related to these loans remain with the FDIC 

receivership. 
For additional information regarding litigation, see Note 31.
Loans sold with recourse 
The Firm provides servicing for mortgages and certain 

commercial lending products on both a recourse and 

nonrecourse basis. In nonrecourse servicing, the principal 

credit risk to the Firm is the cost of temporary servicing 

advances of funds (i.e., normal servicing advances). In 

recourse servicing, the servicer agrees to share credit risk 

with the owner of the mortgage loans, such as Fannie Mae 

or Freddie Mac or a private investor, insurer or guarantor. 

Losses on recourse servicing predominantly occur when 

foreclosure sales proceeds of the property underlying a 

defaulted loan are less than the sum of the outstanding 

principal balance, plus accrued interest on the loan and the 

cost of holding and disposing of the underlying property. 

The Firm’s securitizations are predominantly nonrecourse, 

thereby effectively transferring the risk of future credit 

losses to the purchaser of the mortgage-backed securities 

issued by the trust. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the 

unpaid principal balance of loans sold with recourse totaled 

$4.3 billion and $6.1 billion, respectively. The carrying 

value of the related liability that the Firm has recorded, 

which is representative of the Firm’s view of the likelihood it 

will have to perform under its recourse obligations, was 

$82 million and $102 million at December 31, 2015 and 
2014, respectively. 
Other off-balance sheet arrangements 
Indemnification agreements – general 
In connection with issuing securities to investors, the Firm 

may enter into contractual arrangements with third parties 

that require the Firm to make a payment to them in the 

event of a change in tax law or an adverse interpretation of 

tax law. In certain cases, the contract also may include a 

termination clause, which would allow the Firm to settle the 

contract at its fair value in lieu of making a payment under 

the indemnification clause. The Firm may also enter into 
indemnification clauses in connection with the licensing of 

software to clients (“software licensees”) or when it sells a 

business or assets to a third party (“third-party 

purchasers”), pursuant to which it indemnifies software 

licensees for claims of liability or damages that may occur 

subsequent to the licensing of the software, or third-party 

purchasers for losses they may incur due to actions taken 

by the Firm prior to the sale of the business or assets. It is 

difficult to estimate the Firm’s maximum exposure under 

these indemnification arrangements, since this would 

require an assessment of future changes in tax law and 

future claims that may be made against the Firm that have 

not yet occurred. However, based on historical experience, 

management expects the risk of loss to be remote. 
Card charge-backs 
Commerce Solutions, Card’s merchant services 

business, is a global leader in payment processing and 

merchant acquiring. 
Under the rules of Visa USA, Inc., and MasterCard 
International, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., is primarily liable 

for the amount of each processed card sales transaction 

that is the subject of a dispute between a cardmember and 

a merchant. If a dispute is resolved in the cardmember’s 

favor, Commerce Solutions will (through the cardmember’s 

issuing bank) credit or refund the amount to the 

cardmember and will charge back the transaction to the 

merchant. If Commerce Solutions is unable to collect the 

amount from the merchant, Commerce Solutions will bear 

the loss for the amount credited or refunded to the 

cardmember. Commerce Solutions mitigates this risk by 

withholding future settlements, retaining cash reserve 

accounts or by obtaining other security. However, in the 

unlikely event that: (1) a merchant ceases operations and is 

unable to deliver products, services or a refund; (2) 

Commerce Solutions does not have sufficient collateral from 

the merchant to provide customer refunds; and (3) 

Commerce Solutions does not have sufficient financial 

resources to provide customer refunds, JPMorgan Chase 

Bank, N.A., would recognize the loss. 
Commerce Solutions incurred aggregate losses of $12 
million, $10 million, and $14 million on $949.3 billion, 
$847.9 billion, and $750.1 billion of aggregate volume 

processed for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 

and 2013, respectively. Incurred losses from merchant 

charge-backs are charged to other expense, with the offset 

recorded in a valuation allowance against accrued interest 

and accounts receivable on the Consolidated balance 

sheets. The carrying value of the valuation allowance was 

$20 million and $4 million at December 31, 2015 and 
2014, respectively, which the Firm believes, based on 

historical experience and the collateral held by Commerce 

Solutions of $136 million and $174 million at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, is 

representative of the payment or performance risk to the 

Firm related to charge-backs. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report295Clearing Services – Client Credit Risk 
The Firm provides clearing services for clients by entering 

into securities purchases and sales and derivative 

transactions, with CCPs, including ETDs such as futures and 

options, as well as OTC-cleared derivative contracts. As a 

clearing member, the Firm stands behind the performance 

of its clients, collects cash and securities collateral (margin) 

as well as any settlement 
amounts due from or to clients, 
and remits them to the relevant CCP or client in whole or 

part. There are two types of margin. Variation margin is 

posted on a daily basis based on the value of clients’ 

derivative contracts. Initial margin is posted at inception of 

a derivative contract, generally on the basis of the potential 

changes in the variation margin requirement for the 

contract. 
As clearing member, the Firm is exposed to the risk of 
nonperformance by its clients, but is not liable to clients for 

the performance of the CCPs. Where possible, the Firm 

seeks to mitigate its risk to the client through the collection 

of appropriate amounts of margin at inception and 

throughout the life of the transactions. The Firm can also 

cease providing clearing services if clients do not adhere to 

their obligations under the clearing agreement. In the event 

of non-performance by a client, the Firm would close out 

the client’s positions and access available margin. The CCP 

would utilize any margin it holds to make itself whole, with 

any remaining shortfalls required to be paid by the Firm as 

a clearing member. 
The Firm reflects its exposure to nonperformance risk of the 
client through the recognition of margin payables or 

receivables to clients and CCPs, but does not reflect the 

clients’ underlying securities or derivative contracts on its 

Consolidated Financial Statements. 
It is difficult to estimate the Firm’s maximum possible 
exposure through its role as a clearing member, as this 

would require an assessment of transactions that clients 

may execute in the future. However, based upon historical 

experience, and the credit risk mitigants available to the 

Firm, management believes it is unlikely that the Firm will 

have to make any material payments under these 

arrangements and the risk of loss is expected to be remote. 
For information on the derivatives that the Firm executes 
for its own account and records in its Consolidated Financial 

Statements, see Note 6.Exchange & Clearing House Memberships 
The Firm is a member of several securities and derivative 

exchanges and clearing houses, both in the U.S. and other 

countries, and it provides clearing services. Membership in 

some of these organizations requires the Firm to pay a pro 

rata share of the losses incurred by the organization as a 

result of the default of another member. Such obligations 

vary with different organizations. These obligations may be 

limited to members who dealt with the defaulting member 

or to the amount (or a multiple of the amount) of the Firm’s 

contribution to the guarantee fund maintained by a clearing 

house or exchange as part of the resources available to 

cover any losses in the event of a member default. 

Alternatively, these obligations may be a full pro-rata share 
of the residual losses after applying the guarantee fund. 

Additionally, certain clearing houses require the Firm as a 

member to pay a pro rata share of losses resulting from the 

clearing house’s investment of guarantee fund contributions 

and initial margin, unrelated to and independent of the 

default of another member. Generally a payment would only 

be required should such losses exceed the resources of the 

clearing house or exchange that are contractually required 

to absorb the losses in the first instance. It is difficult to 

estimate the Firm’s maximum possible exposure under 

these membership agreements, since this would require an 

assessment of future claims that may be made against the 

Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based on 

historical experience, management expects the risk of loss 

to be remote. 
Guarantees of subsidiaries
In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase & Co. 

(“Parent Company”) may provide counterparties with 

guarantees of certain of the trading and other obligations of 

its subsidiaries on a contract-by-contract basis, as 

negotiated with the Firm’s counterparties. The obligations 

of the subsidiaries are included on the Firm’s Consolidated 

balance sheets or are reflected as off-balance sheet 

commitments; therefore, the Parent Company has not 

recognized a separate liability for these guarantees. The 

Firm believes that the occurrenc
e of any event that would 
trigger payments by the Parent Company under these 

guarantees is remote. 
The Parent Company has guaranteed certain debt of its 
subsidiaries, including both long-term debt and structured 

notes. These guarantees are not included in the table on 

page 291 of this Note. For additional information, see Note 

21.JPMorgan Chase Financial Company LLC (“JPMFC”), a direct, 
100%-owned finance subsidiary of the Parent Company, 

was formed on September 30, 2015, for the purpose of 

issuing debt and other securities in offerings to investors. 

Any securities issued by JPMFC will be fully and 

unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent Company, and 

these guarantees will rank on a parity with the Firm’s 

unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. As of 

December 31, 2015, no securities had been issued by 
JPMFC.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
296JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 30 – Commitments, pledged assets and 
collateral
Lease commitments 

At December 31, 2015, JPMorgan Chase and its 

subsidiaries were obligated under a number of 

noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment 

used primarily for banking purposes, and for energy-related 

tolling service agreements. Certain leases contain renewal 

options or escalation clauses providing for increased rental 

payments based on maintenance, utility and tax increases, 

or they require the Firm to perform restoration work on 

leased premises. No lease agreement imposes restrictions 

on the Firm’s ability to pay dividends, engage in debt or 

equity financing transactions or enter into further lease 

agreements. 
The following table presents required future minimum 
rental payments under operating leases with noncancelable 

lease terms that expire after December 31, 2015.
Year ended December 31, (in millions)2016$1,668

20171,647

20181,447

20191,263

20201,125

After 20204,679

Total minimum payments required11,829Less: Sublease rentals under noncancelable subleases(1,889)

Net minimum payment required$9,940
Total rental expense was as follows. 
Year ended December 31,(in millions)201520142013
Gross rental expense$2,015
$2,255$2,187
Sublease rental income(411)(383)(341)
Net rental expense$1,604
$1,872$1,846
Pledged assets The Firm may pledge financial assets that it owns to 

maintain potential borrowing capacity with central banks 

and for other purposes, including to secure borrowings and 

public deposits, and to collateralize repurchase and other 

securities financing agreements. Certain of these pledged 

assets may be sold or repledged by the secured parties and 

are identified as financial instruments owned (pledged to 

various parties) on the Consolidated balance sheets. At 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm had pledged assets 

of $385.6 billion and $324.5 billion, respectively, at 

Federal Reserve Banks and FHLBs. In addition, as of 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm had pledged $50.7 

billion and $60.1 billion, respectively, of financial assets 

that may not be sold or repledged by the secured parties. 

Total assets pledged do not include assets of consolidated 

VIEs; these assets are used to settle the liabilities of those 

entities. See Note 16 for additional information on assets 

and liabilities of consolidated VIEs. For additional 

information on the Firm’s securities financing activities and 

long-term debt, see Note 13 and Note 21, respectively. The 

significant components of the Firm’s pledged assets were as 

follows. 
December 31, (in billions)20152014Securities$124.3
$118.7
Loans298.6248.2Trading assets and other144.9169.0Total assets pledged$567.8
$535.9
Collateral 

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Firm had accepted 

assets as collateral that it could sell or repledge, deliver or 

otherwise use with a fair value of approximately $748.5 

billion and $761.7 billion, respectively. This collateral was 

generally obtained under resale agreements, securities 

borrowing agreements, customer margin loans and 

derivative agreements. Of the collateral received, 

approximately $580.9 billion and $596.8 billion, 

respectively, were sold or repledged, generally as collateral 

under repurchase agreements, securities lending 

agreements or to cover short sales and to collateralize 

deposits and derivative agreements. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report297Note 31 – LitigationContingenciesAs of December 31, 2015, the Firm and its subsidiaries and 

affiliates are defendants or putative defendants in 

numerous legal proceedings, including private, civil 

litigations and regulatory/government investigations. The 

litigations range from individual actions involving a single 

plaintiff to class action lawsuits with potentially millions of 

class members. Investigations involve both formal and 

informal proceedings, by both governmental agencies and 

self-regulatory organizations. These legal proceedings are 

at varying stages of adjudication, arbitration or 

investigation, and involve each of the Firm’s lines of 

business and geographies and a wide variety of claims 

(including common law tort and contract claims and 

statutory antitrust, securities and consumer protection 

claims), some of which present novel legal theories.
The Firm believes the estimate of the aggregate range of 
reasonably possible losses, in excess of reserves 

established, for its legal proceedings is from $0 to 

approximately $3.6 billion at December 31, 2015. This 

estimated aggregate range of reasonably possible losses is 

based upon currently available information for those 

proceedings in which the Firm believes that an estimate of 

reasonably possible loss can be made. For certain matters, 

the Firm does not believe that such an estimate can be 

made. The Firm’s estimate of the aggregate range of 

reasonably possible losses involves significant judgment, 

given the number, variety and varying stages of the 

proceedings (including the fact that many are in preliminary 

stages), the existence in many such proceedings of multiple 

defendants (including the Firm) whose share of liability has 

yet to be determined, the numerous yet-unresolved issues 

in many of the proceedings (including issues regarding class 

certification and the scope of many of the claims) and the 

attendant uncertainty of 
the various potential outcomes of 
such proceedings, particularly proceedings that could result 

from government investigations. Accordingly, the Firm’s 

estimate will change from time to time, and actual losses 

may vary significantly.
Set forth below are descriptions of the Firm’s material legal 
proceedings.
Auto Dealer Regulatory Matter. 
The U.S. Department of 
Justice (“DOJ”) is investigating potential statistical 
disparities in markups charged to borrowers of different 

races and ethnicities by automobile dealers on loans 

originated by those dealers and purchased by the Firm.
CIO Litigation. 
The Firm has been sued in a consolidated 
shareholder class action, a consolidated putative class 

action brought under the Employee Retirement Income 

Security Act (“ERISA”) and seven shareholder derivative 

actions brought in Delaware state court and in New York 

federal and state courts relating to 2012 losses in the 

synthetic credit portfolio managed by the Firm’s Chief 

Investment Office (“CIO”). A settlement of the shareholder 

class action, under which the Firm will pay $150 million, 
has been preliminarily approved by the court. The putative 

ERISA class action has been dismissed, and plaintiffs have 

filed a notice of appeal. Six of the seven shareholder 

derivative actions have been dismissed.
Credit Default Swaps Investigations and Litigation.
 In July 2013, the European Commission (the “EC”) filed a 
Statement of Objections against the Firm (including various 

subsidiaries) and other industry members in connection 

with its ongoing investigation into the credit default swaps 

(“CDS”) marketplace. The EC asserted that between 2006 

and 2009, a number of investment banks acted collectively 

through the International Swaps and Derivatives Association 

(“ISDA”) and Markit Group Limited (“Markit”) to foreclose 

exchanges from the potential market for exchange-traded 

credit derivatives. In December 2015, the EC announced the 

closure of its investigation as to the Firm and other 

investment banks.
Separately, the Firm and other defendants have entered 
separate agreements to settle a consolidated putative class 

action filed in the United States District Court for the 

Southern District of New York on behalf of purchasers and 

sellers of CDS. The complaint in this action had alleged that 

the defendant investment banks and dealers, including the 

Firm, as well as Markit and/or ISDA, collectively prevented 

new entrants into the 
market for exchange-traded CDS 
products. These settlemen
ts are subject to 
Court 
approval.Custody Assets Investigation
. The U.K. Financial Conduct 
Authority (“FCA”) has closed its previously-reported 

investigation concerning compliance by JPMorgan Chase 

Bank, N.A., London branch and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited 

with the FCA’s rules regarding the provision of custody 

services relating to the administration of client assets.
Foreign Exchange Investigations and Litigation.
 The Firm 
previously reported settlements with certain government 
authorities relating to its foreign exchange (“FX”) sales and 

trading activities and controls related to those activities. FX-

related investigations and inquiries by other, non-U.S. 

government authorities, including competition authorities, 

remain ongoing, and the Firm is cooperating with those 

matters.
The Firm is also one of a number of foreign exchange 
dealers defending a class action filed in the United States 

District Court for the Southern District of New York by U.S.-

based plaintiffs, principally alleging violations of federal 

antitrust laws based on an alleged conspiracy to manipulate 

foreign exchange rates (the “U.S. class action”). In January 

2015, the Firm entered into a settlement agreement in the 

U.S. class action. Following this settlement, a number of 

additional putative class actions were filed seeking damages 

for persons who transacted FX futures and options on 

futures (the “exchanged-based actions”), consumers who 

purchased foreign currencies at allegedly inflated rates (the 

“consumer actions”), and participants or beneficiaries of 

qualified ERISA plans (the “ERISA actions”). In July 2015, 

the plaintiffs in the U.S. class action filed an amended 

complaint, and the Court consolidated the exchange-based 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
298JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportactions into the U.S. class action. The Firm has entered into 
a revised settlement agreement to resolve the consolidated 

U.S. class action, including the exchange-based actions, and 

that agreement is subject to C
ourt app
roval. The consumer actions and ERISA actions remain pending.
In September 2015, two class actions were filed in Canada 
against the Firm as well as a number of other FX dealers, 

principally for alleged violations of the Canadian 

Competition Act based on an alleged conspiracy to fix the 

prices of currency purchased in the FX market. The first 

action was filed in the province of Ontario, and seeks to 

represent all persons in Canada who transacted any FX 

instrument. The second action seeks to represent only those 

persons in Quebec who engaged in FX transactions.
General Motors Litigation. 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 
participated in, and was the Administrative Agent on behalf 

of a syndicate of lenders on, a $1.5 billion syndicated Term 

Loan facility (“Term Loan”) for General Motors Corporation 

(“GM”). In July 2009, in connection with the GM bankruptcy 

proceedings, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors 

of Motors Liquidation Company (“Creditors Committee”) 

filed a lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its 

individual capacity and as Administrative Agent for other 

lenders on the Term Loan, seeking to hold the underlying 

lien invalid based on the filing of a UCC-3 termination 

statement relating to the Term Loan. In March 2013, the 

Bankruptcy Court granted JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s 

motion for summary judgment and dismissed the Creditors 

Committee’s complaint on the grounds that JPMorgan Chase 

Bank, N.A. did not authorize the filing of the UCC-3 

termination statement at issue. The Creditors Committee 

appealed the Bankruptcy Court’s dismissal of its claim to 

the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In 

January 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the 

Bankruptcy Court’s dismissal of the Creditors Committee’s 

claim and remanded the case to the Bankruptcy Court with 

instructions to enter partial summary judgment for the 

Creditors Committee as to the termination statement. The 

proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court continue with respect 

to, among other things, additional defenses asserted by 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the value of additional 

collateral on the Term Loan that was unaffected by the filing 

of the termination statement at issue. In addition, certain 

Term Loan lenders filed cross-claims against JPMorgan 

Chase Bank, N.A. in the Bankruptcy Court seeking 

indemnification and asserting various claims.
Interchange Litigation. 
A group of merchants and retail 
associations filed a series of class action complaints alleging 
that Visa and MasterCard, as well as certain banks, 

conspired to set the price of credit and debit card 

interchange fees, enacted respective rules in violation of 

antitrust laws, and engaged in tying/bundling and exclusive 

dealing. The parties have entered into an agreement to 

settle the cases for a cash payment of $6.1 billion to the 

class plaintiffs (of which the Firm’s share is approximately 

20%) and an amount equal to ten basis points of credit 

card interchange for a period of eight months to be 
measured from a date within 60 days of the end of the opt-

out period. The agreement also provides for modifications 

to each credit card network’s rules, including those that 

prohibit surcharging credit card transactions. In December 

2013, the Court issued a decision granting final approval of 

the settlement. A number of merchants appealed, and oral 

argument was held in September 2015. Certain merchants 

and trade associations have also filed a motion with the 

District Court seeking to set 
aside the approval of the class settlement on the basis of alleged improper 

communications between one of MasterCard’s former 

outside counsel and one of plaintiffs’ outside counsel. That 

motion remains pending. Certain merchants that opted out 

of the class settlement have filed actions against Visa and 

MasterCard, as well as against the Firm and other banks. 

Defendants’ motion to dismiss those actions was denied in 

July 2014.Investment Management Litigation. 
The Firm is defending 
two pending cases that are being coordinated for pre-trial 
purposes, alleging that investment portfolios managed by 

J.P. Morgan Investment Management (“JPMIM”) were 

inappropriately invested in securities backed by residential 

real estate collateral. Plaintiffs Assured Guaranty (U.K.) and 

Ambac Assurance UK Limited claim that JPMIM is liable for 

total losses of more than $1 billion in market value of these 

securities. Discovery has been completed. In January 2016, 

plaintiffs filed a joint partial motion for summary judgment 

in the coordinated actions.Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy Proceedings. 
In May 2010, 
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“LBHI”) and its Official 
Committee of Unsecured Creditors (the “Committee”) filed a 

complaint (and later an amended complaint) against 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in the United States Bankruptcy 

Court for the Southern District of New York that asserted 

both federal bankruptcy law and state common law claims, 

and sought, among other relief, to recover $7.9 billion in 

collateral (after deducting $700 million of returned 

collateral) that was transferred to JPMorgan Chase Bank, 

N.A. in the weeks preceding LBHI’s bankruptcy. The 

amended complaint also sought unspecified damages on 

the grounds that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s collateral 

requests hastened LBHI’s bankruptcy. The Bankruptcy Court 

dismissed the claims in the amended complaint that sought 

to void the allegedly constructively fraudulent and 

preferential transfers made to the Firm during September 

2008, but did not dismiss the other claims, including claims 

for duress and fraud. The Firm filed counterclaims against 

LBHI, including alleging that LBHI fraudulently induced the 

Firm to make large extensions of credit against 

inappropriate collateral in connection with the Firm’s role 

as the clearing bank for Lehman Brothers Inc. (“LBI”), 

LBHI’s broker-dealer subsidiary. These extensions of credit 

left the Firm with more than $25 billion in claims against 

the estate of LBI, which was repaid principally through 

collateral posted by LBHI and LBI. In September 2015, the 

District Court, to which the case had been transferred from 

the Bankruptcy Court, granted summary judgment in favor 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report299of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. on most of the claims against 
it that the Bankruptcy Court had not previously dismissed, 

including the claims for duress and fraud. The District Court 

also denied LBHI’s motion for summary judgment on certain 

of its claims and for dismissal of the Firm’s counterclaims. 

The claims that remained following the District Court’s 

ruling challenged the propriety of the Firm’s post-petition 

payment, from collateral posted by LBHI, of approximately 

$1.9 billion of derivatives, repo and securities lending 

claims.In the Bankruptcy Court proceedings, LBHI and several of its 
subsidiaries that had been Chapter 11 debtors had filed a 

separate complaint and objection to derivatives claims 

asserted by the Firm alleging that the amount of the 

derivatives claims had been overstated and challenging 

certain set-offs taken by JPMorgan Chase entities to recover 

on the claims. In January 2015, LBHI filed claims objections 

with respect to guaranty claims asserted by the Firm arising 

from close-outs of derivatives transactions with LBI and one 

of its affiliates, and a claim objection with respect to 

derivatives close-out claims acquired by the Firm in the 

Washington Mutual transaction.
In January 2016, the parties reached an agreement, 
approved by the Bankruptcy Court, under which the Firm 

will pay $1.42 billion to settle all of the claims, 

counterclaims and claims objections, including all appeal 

rights, except for the claims specified in the following 

paragraph. One 
pro se
 objector is seeking to appeal the 

settlement.
The settlement did not resolve the following remaining 
matters: In the Bankruptcy Court proceedings, LBHI and the 

Committee filed an objection to the claims asserted by 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. against LBHI with respect to 

clearing advances made to LBI, principally on the grounds 

that the Firm had not conducted the sale of the securities 

collateral held for its claims in a commercially reasonable 

manner. In January 2015, LBHI brought two claims 

objections relating to securities lending claims and a group 

of other smaller claims. Discovery with respect to these 

objections is ongoing.
LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rate Investigations and 
Litigation. 
JPMorgan Chase has received subpoenas and 

requests for documents and, in some cases, interviews, 

from federal and state agencies and entities, including the 

DOJ, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission 

(“CFTC”), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 

(“SEC”) and various state attorneys general, as well as the 

EC, the FCA, the Canadian Competition Bureau, the Swiss 

Competition Commission and other regulatory authorities 

and banking associations around the world relating 

primarily to the process by which interest rates were 

submitted to the British Bankers Association (“BBA”) in 

connection with the setting of the BBA’s London Interbank 

Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) for various currencies, principally in 

2007 and 2008. Some of the inquiries also relate to similar 

processes by which information on rates is submitted to the 
European Banking Federation (“EBF”) in connection with 

the setting of the EBF’s Euro Interbank Offered Rates 

(“EURIBOR”) and to the Japanese Bankers’ Association for 

the setting of Tokyo Interbank Offered Rates (“TIBOR”), as 

well as processes for the setting of U.S. dollar ISDAFIX rates 

and other reference rates in various parts of the world 

during similar time periods. The Firm is responding to and 

continuing to cooperate with these inquiries. As previously 

reported, the Firm has resolved EC inquiries relating to Yen 

LIBOR and Swiss Franc LIBOR. In May 2014, the EC issued a 

Statement of Objections outlining its case against the Firm 

(and others) as to EURIBOR, to which the Firm has filed a 

response and made oral representations. Other inquiries 

have been discontinued without any action against 

JPMorgan Chase, including by the FCA and the Canadian 

Competition Bureau.
In addition, the Firm has been named as a defendant along 
with other banks in a series of individual and putative class 

actions filed in various United States District Courts, in 

which plaintiffs make varying allegations that in various 

periods, starting in 2000 or later, defendants either 

individually or collectively manipulated the U.S. dollar 

LIBOR, Yen LIBOR, Swiss franc LIBOR, Euroyen TIBOR and/or 

EURIBOR rates by submitting rates that were artificially low 

or high. Plaintiffs allege that they transacted in loans, 

derivatives or other financial instruments whose values are 

affected by changes in U.S. dollar LIBOR, Yen LIBOR, Swiss 

franc LIBOR, Euroyen TIBOR or EURIBOR and assert a 

variety of claims including antitrust claims seeking treble 

damages. These matters are in various stages of litigation.
The U.S. dollar LIBOR-related putative class actions and 
most U.S. dollar LIBOR-related individual actions were 

consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States 

District Court for the Southern District of New York. The 

Court dismissed certain claims, including the antitrust 

claims, and permitted other claims under the Commodity 

Exchange Act and common law to proceed. Certain plaintiffs 

appealed the dismissal of the antitrust claims, and the 
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit 

dismissed the appeal for lack of jurisdiction. In January 

2015, the United States Supreme Court reversed the 

decision of the Court of Appeals, holding that plaintiffs have 

the jurisdictional right to appeal, and remanded the case to 

the Court of Appeals for further proceedings. The Court of 

Appeals heard oral argument on remand in November 

2015.The Firm is one of the defendants in a number of putative 
class actions alleging that defendant banks and ICAP 

conspired to manipulate the U.S. dollar ISDAFIX rates. 

Plaintiffs primarily assert claims under the federal antitrust 

laws and Commodities Exchange Act.
Madoff Litigation. 
Various subsidiaries of the Firm, including 
J.P. Morgan Securities plc, have been named as defendants 

in lawsuits filed in Bankruptcy Court in New York arising out 

of the liquidation proceedings of Fairfield Sentry Limited 

and Fairfield Sigma Limited, so-called Madoff feeder funds. 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
300JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportThese actions seek to recover payments made by the funds 
to defendants totaling approximately $155 million. All but 

two of these actions have been dismissed.
In addition, a putative class action was brought by investors 
in certain feeder funds against JPMorgan Chase in the 

United States District Court for the Southern District of New 

York, as was a motion by separate potential class plaintiffs 

to add claims against the Firm and certain subsidiaries to an 

already pending putative class action in the same court. The 

allegations in these complaints largely track those 

previously raised -- and resolved as to the Firm -- by the 

court-appointed trustee for Bernar
d L. Madoff Investment 
Securities LLC. The District Court dismissed these 

complaints and the United States Court of Appeals for the 

Second Circuit affirmed the District Court’s decision. The 

United States Supreme Court denied plaintiffs’ petition for a 

writ of certiorari in March 2015. Plaintiffs subsequently 

served a motion in the Court of Appeals seeking to have the 

Court reconsider its prior decision in light of another recent 

appellate decision. That motion was denied in June 2015.The Firm is a defendant in five other Madoff-related 
individual investor actions pending in New York state court. 

The allegations in all of these actions are essentially 

identical, and involve claims against the Firm for, among 

other things, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, 

conversion and unjust enrichment. In August 2014, the 

Court dismissed all claims against the Firm. In January 

2016, the Appellate Court affirmed the dismissal.
A putative class action was filed in the United States District 
Court for the District of New Jersey by investors who were 

net winners (i.e., Madoff customers who had taken more 

money out of their accounts than had been invested) in 
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme and were not included in a prior 

class action settlement. These plaintiffs allege violations of 

the federal securities law, federal and state racketeering 

statutes and multiple common law and statutory claims 

including breach of trust, aiding and abetting 

embezzlement, unjust enrichment, conversion and 

commercial bad faith. A similar action was filed in the 

United States District Court for the Middle District of 

Florida, although it was not styled as a class action, and 

included claims pursuant to Florida statutes. The Firm 

moved to transfer both the Florida and New Jersey actions 

to the United States District Court for the Southern District 

of New York. The Florida court denied the transfer motion, 

but subsequently granted the Firm’s motion to dismiss the 

case in September 2015. Plaintiffs have filed a notice of 

appeal, which is pending. In addition, the same plaintiffs 

have re-filed their dismissed state claims in Florida state 

court. The New Jersey court granted the transfer motion to 

the Southern District of New York, and the Firm has moved 

to dismiss the case pending in New York.
Three shareholder derivative actions have also been filed in 
New York federal and state court against the Firm, as 

nominal defendant, and certain of its current and former 

Board members, alleging breach of fiduciary duty in 
connection with the Firm’s relationship with Bernard Madoff 

and the alleged failure to maintain effective internal 

controls to detect fraudulent transactions. The actions seek 

declaratory relief and damages. All three actions have been 

dismissed. The plaintiff in one action did not appeal, the 

dismissal has been affirmed on appeal in another action, 

and one appeal remains pending.
Mortgage-Backed Securities and Repurchase Litigation and 
Related Regulatory Investigations. 
The Firm and affiliates 
(together, “JPMC”), Bear Stearns and affiliates (together, 

“Bear Stearns”) and certain Washington Mutual affiliates 

(together, “Washington Mutual”) have been named as 

defendants in a number of cases in their various roles in 

offerings of mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”). These 

cases include actions by individual MBS purchasers and 

actions by monoline insurance companies that guaranteed 

payments of principal and interest for particular tranches of 

MBS offerings. Following the settlements referred to below, 

there are currently pending and tolled investor claims 

involving MBS with an original principal balance of 

approximately $4.2 billion, of which $2.6 billion involves 

JPMC, Bear Stearns or Washington Mutual as issuer and 

$1.6 billion involves JPMC, Bear Stearns or Washington 

Mutual solely as underwriter. The Firm and certain of its 

current and former officers and Board members have also 

been sued in shareholder derivative actions relating to the 

Firm’s MBS activities, and trustees have asserted or have 

threatened to assert claims that loans in securitization 

trusts should be repurchased.
Issuer Litigation – Class Actions. JPMC has fully resolved all 

pending putative class actions on behalf of purchasers of 

MBS.
Issuer Litigation – Individual Purchaser Actions. The Firm is 

defending individual actions brought against JPMC, Bear 

Stearns and Washington Mutual as MBS issuers (and, in 

some cases, also as underwriters of their own MBS 

offerings). The Firm has settled a number of these actions. 

Several actions remain pending in federal and state courts 

across the U.S. and are in various stages of litigation.
Monoline Insurer Litigation. The Firm has settled two 

pending actions relating to a monoline insurer’s guarantees 

of principal and interest on certain classes of 11 different 

Bear Stearns MBS offerings. This settlement fully resolves 

all pending actions by monoline insurers against the Firm 

relating to RMBS issued and/or sponsored by the Firm.
Underwriter Actions. In actions against the Firm involving 

offerings where the Firm was solely an underwriter of other 

issuers’ MBS offerings, the Firm has contractual rights to 

indemnification from the issuers. However, those indemnity 

rights may prove effectively unenforceable in various 
situations, such as where the issuers are now defunct. 

Currently there is one such action pending against the Firm 

relating to a single offering of another issuer.
Repurchase Litigation. The Firm is defending a number of 

actions brought by trustees, securities administrators or 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report301master servicers of various MBS trusts on behalf of 
purchasers of securities issued by those trusts. These cases 

generally allege breaches of various representations and 

warranties regarding securitized loans and seek repurchase 

of those loans or equivalent monetary relief, as well as 

indemnification of attorneys’ fees and costs and other 

remedies. Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, acting as 

trustee for various MBS trusts, has filed such a suit against 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the Federal Deposit 

Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) in connection with a 

significant number of MBS issued by Washington Mutual; 

that case is described in the Washington Mutual Litigations 

section below. Other repurchase actions, each specific to 

one or more MBS transactions issued by JPMC and/or Bear 

Stearns, are in various stages of litigation.
In addition, the Firm and a group of 21 institutional MBS 
investors made a binding offer to the trustees of MBS issued 

by JPMC and Bear Stearns providing for the payment of 

$4.5 billion and the implementation of certain servicing 

changes by JPMC, to resolve all repurchase and servicing 

claims that have been asserted or could have been asserted 

with respect to 330 MBS trusts created between 2005 and 

2008. The offer does not resolve claims relating to 

Washington Mutual MBS. The trustees (or separate and 

successor trustees) for this group of 330 trusts have 

accepted the settlement for 319 trusts in whole or in part 

and excluded from the settlement 16 trusts in whole or in 

part. The trustees’ acceptance is subject to a judicial 

approval proceeding initiated by the trustees and pending 

in New York state court. 
The judicial approval hearing was held in January 2016, and the parties are awaiting a 

decision. An investor in some of the trusts for which the 

settlement has been accepted has intervened in the judicial 

approval proceeding to challenge the trustees’ allocation of 

the settlement among the trusts. Separately, in October 

2015, JPMC reached agreements to resolve repurchase and 

servicing claims for four trusts among the 16 that were 

previously excluded from the trustee settlement. In 

December 2015, the court approved the trustees’ decision 

to accept these separate settlements. The trustees are 

seeking to obtain certain remainin
g approvals necessary to 
effectuate these settlements.
Additional actions have been filed against third-party 
trustees that relate to loan repurchase and servicing claims 

involving trusts sponsored by JPMC, Bear Stearns and 

Washington Mutual.
Derivative Actions. Shareholder derivative actions relating 

to the Firm’s MBS activities have been filed against the Firm, 

as nominal defendant, and certain of its current and former 

officers and members of its Board of Directors, in New York 

state court and California federal court. Two of the New 

York actions have been dismissed, one of which is on 

appeal. A consolidated action in California federal court has 

been dismissed without prejudice for lack of personal 

jurisdiction and plaintiffs are pursuing discovery relating to 

jurisdiction.Government Enforcement Investigations and Litigation. The 

Firm is responding to an ongoing investigation being 

conducted by the DOJ’s Criminal Division and two United 

States Attorney’s Offices relating to MBS offerings 

securitized and sold by the Firm and its subsidiaries. The 

Firm has also received subpoenas and informal requests for 

information from state authorities 
concerning the issuance 
and underwriting of MBS-related matters. The Firm 

continues to respond to these MBS-related regulatory 

inquiries.In addition, the Firm continues to cooperate with 
investigations by the DOJ, including the United States 

Attorney’s Office for the District of Connecticut, and by the 

SEC Division of Enforcement and the Office of the Special 

Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, all 

of which relate to, among other matters, communications 

with counterparties in connection with certain secondary 

market trading in residential and commercial MBS.
The Firm has entered into agreements with a number of 
entities that purchased MBS that toll applicable limitations 

periods with respect to their claims, and has settled, and in 

the future may settle, tolled claims. There is no assurance 

that the Firm will not be named as a defendant in additional 

MBS-related litigation.
Mortgage-Related Investigations and Litigation. 
One shareholder derivative action has been filed in New York 
Supreme Court against the Firm’s Board of Directors 

alleging that the Board failed to exercise adequate 

oversight as to wrongful conduct by the Firm regarding 

mortgage servicing. In December 2014, the court granted 

defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint and in January 

2016, the dismissal was affirmed on appeal.
The Civil Division of the United States Attorney’s Office for 
the Southern District of New York is conducting an 

investigation concerning the F
irm’s compliance with the Fair 
Housing Act and Equal Credit Opportunity Act in connection 

with its mortgage lending practices. In addition, three 

municipalities have commenced litigation against the Firm 

alleging violations of an unfair competition law or the Fair 

Housing Act. The municipalities seek, among other things, 

civil penalties for the unfair competition claim, and, for the 

Fair Housing Act claims, damages resulting from lost tax 

revenue and increased municipal costs associated with 

foreclosed properties. Two of the municipal actions are 

stayed, and a motion to dismiss is pending in the remaining 

action.In March 2015, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A entered into a 
settlement agreement with the Executive Office for United 

States Bankruptcy Trustees and the United States Trustee 

Program (collectively, the “Bankruptcy Trustee”) to resolve 

issues relating to mortgage payment change notices and 

escrow statements in bankruptcy proceedings. In January 

2016, the OCC determined that, among other things, the 

mortgage payment change notices issues that were the 

subject of the settlement with the Bankruptcy Trustee 

violated the 2011 mortgage servicing-related consent order 
Notes to consolidated financial statements
302JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Reportentered into by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the OCC (as 
amended in 2013 and 2015), and assessed a $48 million 
civil money penalty. The OCC concurrently terminated that 

consent order.
Municipal Derivatives Litigation. 
Several civil actions were 
commenced in New York and Alabama courts against the 
Firm relating to certain Jefferson County, Alabama (the 

“County”) warrant underwritings and swap transactions. 

The claims in the civil actions generally alleged that the 

Firm made payments to certain third parties in exchange for 

being chosen to underwrite more than $3 billion in 

warrants issued by the County and to act as the 

counterparty for certain swaps executed by the County. The 

County filed for bankruptcy in November 2011. In June 

2013, the County filed a Chapter 9 Plan of Adjustment, as 

amended (the “Plan of Adjustment”), which provided that 

all the above-described actions against the Firm would be 

released and dismissed with prejudice. In November 2013, 

the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Plan of Adjustment, 

and in December 2013, certain sewer rate payers filed an 

appeal challenging the confirmation of the Plan of 

Adjustment. All conditions to the Plan of Adjustment’s 

effectiveness, including the dismissal of the actions against 

the Firm, were satisfied or waived and the transactions 

contemplated by the Plan of Adjustment occurred in 

December 2013. Accordingly, all the above-described 

actions against the Firm have been dismissed pursuant to 

the terms of the Plan of Adjustment. The appeal of the 

Bankruptcy Court’s order confirming the Plan of Adjustment 

remains pending. 
Petters Bankruptcy and Related Matters. 
JPMorgan Chase 
and certain of its affiliates, including One Equity Partners 
(“OEP”), have been named as defendants in several actions 

filed in connection with the receivership and bankruptcy 

proceedings pertaining to Thomas J. Petters and certain 

affiliated entities (collectively, “Petters”) and the Polaroid 

Corporation. The principal actions against JPMorgan Chase 

and its affiliates have been brought by a court-appointed 

receiver for Petters and the trustees in bankruptcy 

proceedings for three Petters entities. These actions 

generally seek to avoid certain putative transfers in 

connection with (i) the 2005 acquisition by Petters of 

Polaroid, which at the time was majority-owned by OEP; (ii) 

two credit facilities that JPMorgan Chase and other financial 

institutions entered into with Polaroid; and (iii) a credit line 

and investment accounts held by Petters. The actions 

collectively seek recovery of approximately $450 million. 

Defendants have moved to dismiss the complaints in the 

actions filed by the Petters bankruptcy trustees.
Proprietary Products Investigations and Litigation.
 In December 2015, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. 
Morgan Securities LLC agreed to a settlement with the SEC, 

and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. agreed to a settlement with 

the CFTC, regarding disclosures to clients concerning 

conflicts associated with the Firm’s sale and use of 

proprietary products, such as J.P. Morgan mutual funds, in 

the Firm’s wealth management businesses, and the U.S. 
Private Bank’s disclosures concerning the use of hedge 

funds that pay placement agent fees to JPMorgan Chase 

broker-dealer affiliates. As part of the settlements, 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 

paid penalties, disgorgement and interest totaling 

approximately $307 million. The Firm continues to 

cooperate with inquiries from other government authorities 

concerning disclosure of conflicts associated with the Firm’s 

sale and use of proprietary products. A putative class action 

filed in the United States District Court for the Northern 

District of Illinois on behalf of financial advisory clients from 

2007 to the present whose funds were invested in 

proprietary funds and who were charged investment 

management fees, was dismissed by the Court. Plaintiffs’ 

appeal of the dismissal is pending.
Referral Hiring Practices Investigations.
 Various regulators 
are investigating, among other things, the Firm’s 
compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other 

laws with respect to the Firm’s hiring practices related to 

candidates referred by clients, potential clients and 

government officials, and its engagement of consultants in 

the Asia Pacific region. The Firm is responding to and 

cooperating with these investigations.
Washington Mutual Litigations. 
Proceedings related to 
Washington Mutual’s failure are pending before the United 

States District Court for the District of Columbia and include 

a lawsuit brought by Deutsche Bank National Trust 

Company, initially against the FDIC and amended to include 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a defendant, asserting an 

estimated $6 billion to $10 billion in damages based upon 
alleged breaches of certain representations and warranties 

given by certain Washington Mutual affiliates in connection 

with mortgage securitization agreements. The case includes 

assertions that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. may have 

assumed liabilities for the alleged breaches of 

representations and warranties in the mortgage 

securitization agreements. In June 2015, the court ruled in 

favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. on the question of 

whether the Firm or the FDIC bears responsibility for 

Washington Mutual Bank’s repurchase obligations, holding 

that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. assumed only those 

liabilities that were reflected on Washington Mutual Bank’s 

financial accounting records as of September 25, 2008, and 

only up to the amount of the book value reflected therein. 

The FDIC is appealing that ruling and the case has otherwise 

been stayed pending the outcome of that appeal.
Certain holders of Washington Mutual Bank debt filed an 
action against JPMorgan Chase which alleged that by 

acquiring substantially all of the assets of Washington 

Mutual Bank from the FDIC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. 

caused Washington Mutual Bank to default on its bond 

obligations. JPMorgan Chase and the FDIC moved to dismiss 

this action and the District Court dismissed the case except 

as to the plaintiffs’ claim that JPMorgan Chase tortiously 

interfered with the plaintiffs’ bond contracts with 

Washington Mutual Bank prior to its closure. The action has 
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report303been stayed pending a decision on JPMorgan Chase’s 
motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ remaining claim.
JPMorgan Chase has also filed complaints in the United 
States District Court for the District of Columbia against the 

FDIC, in its corporate capacity as well as in its capacity as 

receiver for Washington Mutual Bank, asserting multiple 

claims for indemnification under the terms of the Purchase 

& Assumption Agreement between JPMorgan Chase and the 

FDIC relating to JPMorgan Chase’s purchase of most of the 

assets and certain liabilities of Washington Mutual Bank.
Wendel. 
Since 2012, the French criminal authorities have 
been investigating a series of transactions entered into by 

senior managers of Wendel Investissement (“Wendel”) 

during the period from 2004 through 2007 to restructure 

their shareholdings in Wendel. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 

Paris branch provided financing for the transactions to a 

number of managers of Wendel in 2007. In April 2015, 

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. was notified that the authorities 

were formally investigating the role of its Paris branch in 

the transactions, including alleged criminal tax abuse. 

JPMorgan Chase is responding to and cooperating with the 

investigation. In addition, civil proceedings have been 

commenced against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. by a 

number of the managers. The claims are separate, involve 

different allegations and are at various stages of 

proceedings.
*     *     *In addition to the various legal proceedings discussed 

above, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are named as 
defendants or are otherwise involved in a substantial 

number of other legal proceedings and inquiries. The Firm 

believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted 

against it in its currently outstanding legal proceedings and 

inquiries, and it intends to defend itself vigorously in all 

such matters. Additional legal proceedings and inquiries 

may be initiated from time to time in the future.
The Firm has established reserves for several hundred of its 
currently outstanding legal proceedin
gs. In accordance with 
the provisions of U.S. GAAP for contingencies, the Firm 

accrues for a litigation-related liability when it is probable 

that such a liability has been incurred and the amount of 

the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Firm evaluates its 

outstanding legal proceedings each quarter to assess its 

litigation reserves, and makes adjustments in such reserves, 

upwards or downward, as appropriate, based on 

management’s best judgment after consultation with 

counsel. During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 

and 2013, the Firm incurred legal expense of $3.0 billion, 

$2.9 billion and $11.1 billion, respectively. There is no 

assurance that the Firm’s litigation reserves will not need to 

be adjusted in the future.
In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome 

of legal proceedings, particularly where the claimants seek 

very large or indeterminate damages, or where the matters 

present novel legal theories, involve a large number of 

parties or are in early stages of discovery, the Firm cannot 

state with confidence what will be the eventual outcomes of 

the currently pending matters, the timing of their ultimate 

resolution or the eventual losses, fines, penalties or impact 

related to those matters. JPMorgan Chase believes, based 

upon its current knowledge, after consultation with counsel 

and after taking into account 
its current litigation reserves, 
that the legal proceedings currently pending against it 

should not have a material adverse effect on the Firm’s 

consolidated financial condition. The Firm notes, however, 

that in light of the uncertainties involved in such 

proceedings, there is no assurance the ultimate resolution 

of these matters will not significantly exceed the reserves it 

has currently accrued; as a result, the outcome of a 

particular matter may be material to JPMorgan Chase’s 

operating results for a particular period, depending on, 

among other factors, the size of the loss or liability imposed 

and the level of JPMorgan Chase’s income for that period.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
304JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 32 – International operations
The following table presents 
income statement- and balance 
sheet-related information for JPMorgan Chase by major 
international geographic area. The Firm defines 

international activities for purposes of this footnote 

presentation as business transactions that involve clients 

residing outside of the U.S., and the information presented 

below is based predominantly on the domicile of the client, 

the location from which the client relationship is managed, 

or the location of the trading desk. However, many of the 

Firm’s U.S. operations serve international businesses.
As the Firm’s operations are highly integrated, estimates 

and subjective assumptions have been made to apportion 

revenue and expense between U.S. and international 

operations. These estimates and assumptions are consistent 

with the allocations used for the Firm’s segment reporting 

as set forth in Note 33.
The Firm’s long-lived assets for the periods presented are 
not considered by management to be significant in relation 

to total assets. The majority of the Firm’s long-lived assets 

are located in the U.S.
As of or for the year ended December 31, (in millions)Revenue
(b)Expense(c)
Income before 
income tax expenseNet incomeTotal assets
2015    
Europe/Middle East and Africa$14,206$8,871$5,335$4,158$347,647
(d)Asia and Pacific6,1514,2411,9101,285138,747
Latin America and the Caribbean1,9231,50841525348,185
Total international22,28014,6207,6605,696534,579
North America
(a)71,26348,22123,04218,7461,817,119
Total$93,543$62,841$30,702$24,442$2,351,698

2014
Europe/Middle East and Africa$16,013$10,123$5,890$3,935$481,328
(d)Asia and Pacific6,0834,478
1,6051,051147,357
Latin America and the Caribbean2,0471,626
42126944,567
Total international24,14316,227
7,9165,255673,252
North America
(a)70,96948,18622,78316,4901,899,022
Total$95,112$64,413$30,699$21,745$2,572,274
2013
Europe/Middle East and Africa$15,585$9,069$6,516$4,842$514,747
(d)Asia and Pacific6,1684,248
1,9201,254145,999
Latin America and the Caribbean2,2511,626
62538141,473
Total international24,00414,943
9,0616,477702,219
North America
(a)73,36355,74917,61411,4091,712,660
Total$97,367$70,692$26,675$17,886$2,414,879
(a) Substantially reflects the U.S.
(b) Revenue is composed of net interest income and noninterest revenue.

(c) Expense is composed of noninterest expense and the provision for credit losses.

(d) Total assets for the U.K. were approximately $306 billion, $434 billion, and $451 billion at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report305Note 33 – Business segments
The Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are 
four major reportable business segments – Consumer & 

Community Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, 

Commercial Banking and Asset Management. In addition, 

there is a Corporate segment. The business segments are 

determined based on the products and services provided, or 

the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in 

which financial information is currently evaluated by 

management. Results of these lines of business are 

presented on a managed basis. For a definition of managed 

basis, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s use 

of non-GAAP financial measures, on pages 80–82. For a 

further discussion concerning JPMorgan Chase’s business 

segments, see Business Segment Results on pages 83–84.
The following is a description of each of the Firm’s business 
segments, and the products and services they provide to 

their respective client bases.
Consumer & Community Banking Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”) serves consumers 

and businesses through personal service at bank branches 

and through ATMs, online, mobile and telephone banking. 

CCB is organized into Consumer & Business Banking 

(including Consumer Banking/Chase Wealth Management 

and Business Banking), Mortgage Banking (including 

Mortgage Production, Mortgage Servicing and Real Estate 

Portfolios) and Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto (“Card”). 

Consumer & Business Banking offers deposit and 

investment products and services to consumers, and 

lending, deposit, and cash management and payment 

solutions to small businesses. Mortgage Banking includes 

mortgage origination and servicing activities, as well as 

portfolios consisting
 of residential mortgages and home 

equity loans. Card issues credit cards to consumers and 

small businesses, offers payment processing services to 

merchants, and provides auto loans and leases and student 

loan services.
Corporate & Investment Bank
The Corporate & Investment Bank (“CIB”), which consists of 

Banking and Markets & Investor Services, offers a broad 

suite of investment banking, market-making, prime 

brokerage, and treasury and securities products and 

services to a global client base of corporations, investors, 

financial institutions, government and municipal 

entities. Banking offers a full range of investment banking 

products and services in all major capital markets, including 

advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital-raising 

in equity and debt markets, as well as loan origination and 

syndication. Banking also includes Treasury Services, which 

provides transaction services, consisting of cash 

management and liquidity solutions. Markets & Investor 

Services is a global market-maker in cash securities and 

derivative instruments, and also offers sophisticated risk 

management solutions, prime brokerage, and 

research. Markets & Investor Services also includes 

Securities Services, a leading global custodian which 

provides custody, fund accounting and administration, and 
securities lending products principally for asset managers, 

insurance companies and public and private investment 

funds.Commercial BankingCommercial Banking (“CB”) delivers extensive industry 

knowledge, local expertise and dedicated service to U.S. 

and U.S. multinational clients, including corporations, 

municipalities, financial institutions and nonprofit entities 

with annual revenue generally ranging from $20 million to 

$2 billion. In addition, CB provides financing to real estate 

investors and owners. Partnering with the Firm’s other 

businesses, CB provides comprehensive financial solutions, 

including lending, treasury services, investment banking 

and asset management to meet its clients’ domestic and 

international financial needs.Asset Management
Asset Management (“AM”), with client assets of $2.4 

trillion, is a global leader in investment and wealth 

management. AM clients include institutions, high-net-

worth individuals and retail investors in many major 

markets throughout the world. AM offers investment 

management across most major asset classes including 

equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market 

funds. AM also offers multi-asset investment management, 

providing solutions for a broad range of clients’ investment 

needs. For Global Wealth Management clients, AM also 

provides retirement products and services, brokerage and 

banking services including trusts and estates, loans, 

mortgages and deposits. The majority of AM’s client assets 

are in actively managed portfolios.
Corporate
The Corporate segment consists of Treasury and Chief 

Investment Office (“CIO”) and Other Corporate, which 

includes corporate staff units and expense that is centrally 

managed. Treasury and CIO are predominantly responsible 

for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the 

Firm’s liquidity, funding and structural interest rate and 

foreign exchange risks, as well as executing the Firm’s 

capital plan. The major Other Corporate units include Real 

Estate, Enterprise Technology, Legal, Compliance, Finance, 

Human Resources, Internal Audit, Risk Management, 

Oversight & Control, Corporate Responsibility and various 

Other Corporate groups. Other centrally managed expense 

includes the Firm’s occupancy and pension-related expenses 

that are subject to allocation to the businesses.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
306JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportSegment results The following tables provide a summary of the Firm’s 

segment results as of or for the years ended December 31, 

2015, 2014 and 2013 on a managed basis. Total net 

revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for 

each of the segments is presented on a fully taxable-

equivalent (“FTE”) basis. Accordingly, revenue from 

investments that receive tax credits and tax-exempt 

securities is presented in the managed results on a basis 

comparable to taxable investments and securities. This non-

GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the 

comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-

exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact 

related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax 

expense/(benefit). 
Preferred stock dividend allocation 
As part of its funds transfer pricing process, the Firm 

allocates substantially all of the cost of its outstanding 
preferred stock to its reportable business segments, while 

retaining the balance of the cost in Corporate. This cost is 

included as a reduction to net income applicable to common 

equity to be consistent with the presentation of firmwide 

results.
Business segment capital allocation changes
On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of 

capital required for each line of business as well as the 

assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital to 
its lines of business, and updates the equity allocations to 

its lines of business as refinements are implemented. Each 

business segment is allocated capital by taking into 

consideration stand-alone peer comparisons, regulatory 

capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced 

Fully Phased-In rules) and economic risk. The amount of 

capital assigned to each business is referred to as equity.
Segment results and reconciliation
As of or for the year ended 
December 31, 

(in millions, except ratios)
Consumer & Community BankingCorporate & Investment BankCommercial Banking
201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
Noninterest revenue$15,592
$15,937$17,552
$23,693
$23,420$23,736
$2,365
$2,349$2,298
Net interest income28,22828,43128,985
9,84911,17510,976
4,5204,5334,794
Total net revenue43,82044,36846,537
33,54234,59534,712
6,8856,8827,092
Provision for credit losses3,0593,520335
332(161)(232)
442(189)85
Noninterest expense24,90925,60927,842
21,36123,27321,744
2,8812,6952,610
Income/(loss) before income tax expense/(benefit)15,85215,23918,360
11,84911,48313,200
3,5624,3764,397
Income tax expense/(benefit)6,0636,0547,299
3,7594,5754,350
1,3711,7411,749
Net income/(loss)$9,789
$9,185$11,061
$8,090
$6,908$8,850
$2,191
$2,635$2,648
Average common equity$51,000
$51,000$46,000
$62,000
$61,000$56,500
$14,000
$14,000$13,500
Total assets502,652455,634452,929
748,691861,466843,248
200,700195,267190,782
Return on common equity18%
18%23%
12%
10%15%
15%
18%19%
Overhead ratio575860
646763
423937
(a) Segment managed results reflect revenue on a FTE basis with the corresponding income tax impact recorded within income tax 
expense/(benefit). These adjustments are 
eliminated in reconciling items to arrive at the Firm’s reported U.S. GAAP results.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report307(table continued from previous page)Asset ManagementCorporateReconciling Items
(a) Total201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
201520142013
$9,563
$9,588$9,029
$800
$1,972$3,093
$(1,980)
$(1,788)$(1,660)
$50,033
$51,478$54,048
2,5562,4402,376
(533)(1,960)(3,115)
(1,110)(985)(697)
43,51043,63443,319
12,11912,02811,405
26712(22)
(3,090)(2,773)(2,357)
93,54395,11297,367
4465
(10)(35)(28)
———3,8273,139225
8,8868,5388,016
9771,15910,255
———59,01461,27470,467
3,2293,4863,324
(700)(1,112)(10,249)
(3,090)(2,773)(2,357)
30,70230,69926,675
1,2941,3331,241
(3,137)(1,976)(3,493)
(3,090)(2,773)(2,357)
6,2608,9548,789
$1,935
$2,153$2,083
$2,437
$864$(6,756)
$—$—$—
$24,442
$21,745$17,886
$9,000
$9,000$9,000
$79,690
$72,400$71,409
$—$—$—
$215,690
$207,400$196,409
131,451128,701122,414
768,204931,206805,506
NANANA
2,351,6982,572,2742,414,879
21%
23%23%
NMNMNM
NMNMNM
11%
10%9%
737170
NMNMNM
NMNMNM
636472
Notes to consolidated financial statements
308JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportNote 34 – Parent company
Parent company – Statements of income and comprehensive incomeYear ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
IncomeDividends from subsidiaries andaffiliates:Bank and bank holding company$10,653
$—$1,175
Nonbank(a)8,17214,716876
Interest income from subsidiaries443378757
Other interest income234284303
Other income from subsidiaries, 
primarily fees:
Bank and bank holding company1,438779318
Nonbank(2,945)522,065
Other income/(loss)3,316508(1,380)
Total income21,311
16,7174,114
Expense
Interest expense to subsidiaries and 
affiliates
(a)98169309
Other interest expense3,7203,6454,031
Other noninterest expense2,6118279,597
Total expense6,429
4,64113,937
Income (loss) before income taxbenefit and undistributed netincome of subsidiaries14,88212,076(9,823)
Income tax benefit1,6401,4304,301
Equity in undistributed net incomeof subsidiaries7,9208,23923,408
Net income$24,442
$21,745$17,886
Other comprehensive income, net(1,997)990(2,903)
Comprehensive income$22,445
$22,735$14,983
Parent company – Balance sheetsDecember 31, (in millions)20152014AssetsCash and due from banks$74
$211
Deposits with banking subsidiaries65,79995,884Trading assets13,83018,222Available-for-sale securities3,1543,321Loans1,8872,260Advances to, and receivables from,subsidiaries:Bank and bank holding company32,45433,810Nonbank58,67452,626Investments (at equity) in subsidiaries andaffiliates:Bank and bank holding company225,613215,732Nonbank(a)34,20541,173Other assets18,08818,200Total assets$453,778
$481,439
Liabilities and stockholders’ equity
Borrowings from, and payables to, 
subsidiaries and affiliates
(a)$11,310
$17,381
Other borrowed funds, primarily commercialpaper3,72249,586Other liabilities11,94011,918Long-term debt
(b)(c)
179,233170,827Total liabilities
(c)
206,205249,712Total stockholders’ equity247,573231,727Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity$453,778
$481,439
Parent company – Statements of cash flowsYear ended December 31, 
(in millions)201520142013
Operating activitiesNet income$24,442
$21,745$17,886
Less: Net income of subsidiaries 
and affiliates
(a)26,74522,97225,496
Parent company net loss(2,303)
(1,227)(7,610)
Cash dividends from subsidiaries 
and affiliates
(a)17,02314,7141,917
Other operating adjustments2,483(1,681)3,217
Net cash provided by/(used in)operating activities17,20311,806(2,476)
Investing activities
Net change in:Deposits with bankingsubsidiaries30,085(31,040)10,679
Available-for-sale securities:Proceeds from paydowns andmaturities12012,07661
Purchases——(12,009)
Other changes in loans, net321(319)(713)
Advances to and investments insubsidiaries and affiliates, net(81)3,30614,469
All other investing activities, net1533222
Net cash provided by/(used in)investing activities30,598(15,945)12,509
Financing activitiesNet change in:Borrowings from subsidiaries and 
affiliates
(a)(4,062)4,454(2,715)
Other borrowed funds(47,483)(5,778)(7,297)
Proceeds from the issuance oflong-term debt42,12140,28431,303
Payments of long-term debt(30,077)(31,050)(21,510)
Proceeds from issuance ofpreferred stock5,8938,8473,873
Redemption of preferred stock——(1,800)
Treasury stock and warrantsrepurchased(5,616)(4,760)(4,789)
Dividends paid(7,873)(6,990)(6,056)
All other financing activities, net(840)(921)(994)
Net cash provided by/(used in)financing activities(47,937)4,086(9,985)
Net increase/(decrease) in cashand due from banks(137)(53)48
Cash and due from banks at thebeginning of the year, primarilywith bank subsidiaries211264216
Cash and due from banks at theend of the year, primarily with
bank subsidiaries$74
$211$264
Cash interest paid$3,873
$3,921$4,409
Cash income taxes paid, net8,2512002,390
(a) Affiliates include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (“issuer trusts”). 
The Parent received dividends of $2 million, $2 million and $5 million from the issuer 
trusts in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. For further discussion on these issuer 
trusts, see Note 21.(b) At December 31, 2015, long-term debt that contractually matures in 2016 through 
2020 totaled $27.2 billion, $26.0 billion, $21.1 billion, $11.5 billion and $22.2 billion, respectively.
(c) For information regarding the Parent’s guarantees of its subsidiaries’ obligations, see 
Notes 21 and 29.Supplementary information
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report309Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)
(Table continued on next page)As of or for the period ended20152014(in millions, except per share, ratio, headcountdata and where otherwise noted)4th quarter3rd quarter2nd quarter1st quarter4th quarter3rd quarter2nd quarter1st quarter
Selected income statement dataTotal net revenue$22,885$22,780$23,812$24,066
$22,750$24,469$24,678$23,215
Total noninterest expense14,26315,36814,50014,883
15,40915,79815,43114,636
Pre-provision profit8,6227,4129,3129,183
7,3418,6719,2478,579
Provision for credit losses1,251682935959
840757692850
Income before income tax expense7,3716,7308,3778,224
6,5017,9148,5557,729
Income tax expense1,937(74)2,0872,310
1,5702,3492,5752,460
Net income$5,434$6,804$6,290$5,914
$4,931$5,565$5,980$5,269
Per common share data
Net income:            Basic$1.34$1.70$1.56$1.46
$1.20$1.37$1.47$1.29
Diluted1.321.681.541.45
1.191.351.461.28
Average shares:      Basic3,674.23,694.43,707.83,725.3
3,730.93,755.43,780.63,787.2
Diluted3,704.63,725.63,743.63,757.5
3,765.23,788.73,812.53,823.6
Market and per common share data
Market capitalization$241,899$224,438$250,581$224,818
$232,472$225,188$216,725$229,770
Common shares at period-end3,663.53,681.13,698.13,711.1
3,714.83,738.23,761.33,784.7
Share price
(a):High$69.03$70.61$69.82$62.96
$63.49$61.85$61.29$61.48
Low58.5350.0759.6554.27
54.2654.9652.9754.20
Close66.0360.9767.7660.58
62.5860.2457.6260.71
Book value per share60.4659.6758.4957.77
56.9856.4155.4453.97
Tangible book value per share (“TBVPS”)
(b)48.1347.3646.1345.45
44.6044.0443.0841.65
Cash dividends declared per share0.440.440.440.40
0.400.400.400.38
Selected ratios and metrics
Return on common equity (“ROE”)9%12%11%11%
9%10%11%10%
Return on tangible common equity (“ROTCE”)
(b)1115141411131413Return on assets (“ROA”)0.901.111.010.94
0.780.900.990.89
Overhead ratio6267616268656363Loans-to-deposits ratio6564615656565757HQLA (in billions)(c)
$496$505$532$614
$600$572$576$538
CET1 capital ratio
(d)11.8%11.5%11.2%10.7%
10.2%10.2%9.8%10.9%
Tier 1 capital ratio
(d)13.513.312.812.1
11.611.511.012.0
Total capital ratio
(d)15.114.914.413.6
13.112.812.514.5
Tier 1 leverage ratio8.58.48.07.57.67.67.67.3Selected balance sheet data (period-end)
Trading assets$343,839$361,708$377,870$398,981
$398,988$410,657$392,543$375,204
Securities290,827306,660317,795331,136
348,004366,358361,918351,850
Loans837,299809,457791,247764,185
757,336743,257746,983730,971
Core Loans732,093698,988674,767641,285
628,785607,617603,440582,206
Total assets2,351,6982,416,6352,449,0982,576,619
2,572,2742,526,1582,519,4942,476,152
Deposits1,279,7151,273,1061,287,3321,367,887
1,363,4271,334,5341,319,7511,282,705
Long-term debt
(e)
288,651292,503286,240280,123
276,379268,265269,472274,053
Common stockholders’ equity221,505219,660216,287214,371
211,664210,876208,520204,246
Total stockholders’ equity247,573245,728241,205235,864
231,727230,939226,983219,329
Headcount234,598235,678237,459241,145
241,359242,388245,192246,994
Supplementary information
310JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report(Table continued from previous page)As of or for the period ended20152014(in millions, except ratio data)4th quarter3rd quarter2nd quarter1st quarter4th quarter3rd quarter2nd quarter1st quarter
Credit quality metrics
Allowance for credit losses$14,341$14,201$14,535$14,658
$14,807$15,526$15,974$16,485
Allowance for loan losses to total retainedloans1.63%1.67%1.78%1.86%
1.90%2.02%2.08%2.20%
Allowance for loan losses to retained loans 
excluding purchased credit-impaired loans
(f)
1.371.401.451.52
1.551.631.691.75
Nonperforming assets$7,034$7,294$7,588$7,714
$7,967$8,390$9,017$9,473
Net charge-offs1,0649631,0071,052
1,2181,1141,1581,269
Net charge-off rate0.52%0.49%0.53%0.57%
0.65%0.60%0.64%0.71%
Note: Effective October 1, 2015, and January 1, 2015, JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”) adopted new account
ing guidance, retrospectively, related to (1) the presentation of debt issuance 
costs, and (2) investments in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit, respectively. For additional information, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-
GAAP Financial Measures on pages 80–82 , Accounting and Reporting Developments on page 170, and Note 1.
(a) Share prices shown for JPMorgan Chase’s common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange. 
(b) TBVPS and ROTCE are non-GAAP financial measures. For further discussion of these measures, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 80–82.

(c) HQLA represents the amount of assets that qualify for inclusion in the liquidity coverage ratio under the final U.S. rule (“U.S. LCR”) for 4Q15, 3Q15, 2Q15 and 1Q15 and the estimated amounts for 4Q14 and 
3Q14 prior to the effective date of the final rule and under the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio (“Basel III LCR”) for 2Q14 and 1Q14. For additional information, see HQLA on page 160.
(d) As of December 31, 2015, September 30, 2015, June 30, 2015, March 31, 2015, December 31, 2014, September 30, 2014, and June 30, 2014, the ratios presented are calculated under the U.S. Basel III 
transitional rules. As of March 31, 2015 the ratio presented is calculated under Basel III Standardized Transitional rules. All periods shown represent the Collins Floor. See Capital Management on pages 149–

158 for additional information on Basel III and non-GAAP financial measures of regulatory capital.
(e) Included unsecured long-term debt of $211.8 billion, $214.6 billion, $209.1 billion, $209.0 billion, $207.0 billion, $204.2
 billion, $205.1 billion and $205.6 respectively, for the periods presented.

(f) Excludes the impact of residential real estate PCI loans, a non-GAAP financial measure. For further discussion of these measures, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm’s Use of Non-GAAP Financial 
Measures on pages 80–82. For further discussion, see Allowance for credit losses on pages 130–132.
Glossary of Terms
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report311Active foreclosures: 
Loans referred to foreclosure where 
formal foreclosure proceedings are ongoing. Includes both 
judicial and non-judicial states.Allowance for loan losses to total loans: 
Represents 
period-end allowance for loan losses divided by retained 
loans.Alternative assets: 
The following types of assets constitute 
alternative investments – hedge funds, currency, real estate, 
private equity and other investment funds designed to focus 
on nontraditional strategies.
Assets under management:
 Represent assets actively 
managed by AM on behalf of its Private Banking, 

Institutional and Retail clients. Includes “Committed capital 

not Called,” on which AM earns fees.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs: 
Represents the interest of third-party holders of debt, 

equity securities, or other obligations, issued by VIEs that 

JPMorgan Chase consolidates.
Benefit obligation: 
Refers to the projected benefit 
obligation for pension plans and the accumulated 

postretirement benefit obligation for OPEB plans.
Central counterparty (“CCP”): 
A CCP is a clearing house 
that interposes itself between counterparties to contracts 
traded in one or more financial markets, becoming the 

buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer and 

thereby ensuring the future performance of open contracts. 

A CCP becomes counterparty to trades with market 

participants through novation, an open offer system, or 

another legally binding arrangement.
Chase LiquidSM cards: Refers to a prepaid, reloadable card 
product.

Client advisors: Investment product specialists, including 
private client advisors, financial advisors, financial advisor 

associates, senior financial advisors, independent financial 

advisors and financial advisor associate trainees, who 

advise clients on investment options, including annuities, 

mutual funds, stock trading services, etc., sold by the Firm 

or by third-party vendors through retail branches, Chase 

Private Client locations and other channels.
Client assets: Represent assets under management as well 
as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.
Client deposits and other third party liabilities:
 Deposits, as well as deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet 

liabilities (e.g., commercial paper, f
ederal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase 

agreements) as part of client cash management programs. 

During the third quarter 2015 the Firm completed the 
discontinuation of its commercial paper customer sweep 
cash management program.
Client investment managed accounts:
 Assets actively 
managed by Chase Wealth Management on behalf of clients. 
The percentage of managed accounts is calculated by 
dividing managed account assets by total client investment 
assets.Commercial Card 
provides a wide range of payment 
services to corporate and public sector clients worldwide 
through the commercial card products. Services include 

procurement, corporate travel and entertainment, expense 

management services, and business-to-business payment 

solutions.Core loans:
 Loans considered central to the Firm’s ongoing 
businesses; core loans exclude loans classified as trading 

assets, runoff portfolios, discontinued portfolios and 

portfolios the Firm has an intent to exit.
Credit cycle: 
A period of time over which credit quality 
improves, deteriorates and then improves again (or vice 
versa). The duration of a credit cycle can vary from a couple 

of years to several years.
Credit derivatives:
 Financial instruments whose value is 
derived from the credit risk associated with the debt of a 
third party issuer (the reference entity) which allow one
 party (the protection purchaser) to transfer that risk to 
another party (the protection seller). Upon the occurrence 
of a credit event by the reference entity, which may include, 
among other events, the bankruptcy or failure to pay its 

obligations, or certain restructurings of the debt of the 

reference entity, neither party has recourse to the reference 

entity. The protection purchaser has recourse to the 

protection seller for the difference between the face value 

of the CDS contract and the fair value at the time of settling 

the credit derivative contract. The determination as to 

whether a credit event has occurred is generally made by 
the relevant International Swaps and Derivatives 
Association (“ISDA”) Determinations Committee.
Deposit margin/deposit spread: 
Represents net interest 
income expressed as a percentage of average deposits.
Distributed denial-of-service attack:
 The use of a large 
number of remote computer systems to electronically send 
a high volume of traffic to a target website to create a 
service outage at the target. This is a form of cyberattack.
Exchange-traded derivatives: 
Derivative contracts that are 
executed on an exchange and settled via a central clearing 
house.
Fee share:
 Proportion of fee revenue based on estimates of 
investment banking fees generated across the industry from 
investment banking transactions in M&A, equity and debt 
underwriting, and loan syndications. Source: Dealogic, a 
third party provider of investment banking fee competitive 
analysis and volume-based league tables for the above 
noted industry products.
FICO score: 
A measure of consumer credit risk provided by 
credit bureaus, typically produced from statistical models 
by Fair Isaac Corporation utilizing data collected by the 
credit bureaus.
Forward points: 
Represents the interest rate differential 
between two currencies, which is either added to or 
subtracted from the current exchange rate (i.e., “spot rate”) 
to determine the forward exchange rate.
Glossary of Terms
312JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportGroup of Seven (“G7”) nations: 
Countries in the G7 are 
Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the U.K. and the U.S.
G7 government bonds: 
Bonds issued by the government of 
one of the G7 nations.Headcount-related expense: 
Includes salary and benefits 
(excluding performance-based incentives), and other 
noncompensation costs related to employees.
Home equity – senior lien: Represents loans and 
commitments where JPMorgan Chase holds the first 
security interest on the property.
Home equity – junior lien: Represents loans and 
commitments where JPMorgan Chase holds a security 
interest that is subordinate in rank to other liens.
Impaired loan: Impaired loans are loans measured at 
amortized cost, for which it is probable that the Firm will be 
unable to collect all amounts due, including principal and 

interest, according to the contractual terms of the 

agreement. Impaired loans include the following:
• All wholesale nonaccrual loans

• All TDRs (both wholesale and consumer), including ones 
that have returned to accrual status
Interchange income: A fee paid to a credit card issuer in 
the clearing and settlement of a sales or cash advance 
transaction.
Investment-grade: 
An indication of credit quality based on 
JPMorgan Chase’s internal risk assessment system. 
“Investment grade” generally represents a risk profile 

similar to a rating of a “BBB-”/“Baa3” or better, as defined 

by independent rating agencies.
LLC: 
Limited Liability Company.

Loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio: 
For residential real estate 
loans, the relationship, expressed as a percentage, between 

the principal amount of a loan and the appraised value of 

the collateral (i.e., residential real estate) securing the loan.
Origination date LTV ratio

The LTV ratio at the origination date of the loan. Origination 
date LTV ratios are calculated based on the actual appraised 

values of collateral (i.e., loan-level data) at the origination 

date.
Current estimated LTV ratio

An estimate of the LTV as of a certain date. The current 
estimated LTV ratios are calculated using estimated 

collateral values derived from a nationally recognized home 

price index measured at the metropolitan statistical area 
(“MSA”) level. These MSA-lev
el home price indices consist of actual data to the extent available and forecasted data 
where actual data is not available. As a result, the estimated 
collateral values used to calculate these ratios do not 
represent actual appraised loan-level collateral values; as 
such, the resulting LTV ratios are necessarily imprecise and 
should therefore be viewed as estimates.
Combined LTV ratio
The LTV ratio considering all available lien positions, as well 
as unused lines, related to the property. Combined LTV 
ratios are used for junior lien home equity products.
Managed basis: A non-GAAP presentation of financial 
results that includes reclassifications to present revenue on 
a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Management uses this non- 
GAAP financial measure at the segment level, because it 
believes this provides information to enable investors to 
understand the underlying operational performance and 
trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a 
comparison of the business segment with the performance 
of competitors.
Master netting agreement: 
An agreement between two 
counterparties who have multiple contracts with each other 
that provides for the net settlement of all contracts, as well 

as cash collateral, through a single payment, in a single 

currency, in the event of default on or termination of any 

one contract.
Mortgage origination channels:

Retail – Borrowers who buy or refinance a home through 
direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the 

Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. 

Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by 

a banker in a Chase branch, real estate brokers, home 

builders or other third parties.
Correspondent – Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and 
other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.
Mortgage product types:

Alt-A

Alt-A loans are generally higher in credit quality than 
subprime loans but have characteristics that would 

disqualify the borrower from a traditional prime loan. Alt-A 

lending characteristics may include one or more of the 

following: (i) limited documentation; (ii) a high combined 

loan-to-value (“CLTV”) ratio; (iii) loans secured by non-

owner occupied properties; or (iv) a debt-to-income ratio 

above normal limits. A substantial proportion of the Firm’s 

Alt-A loans are those where a borrower does not provide 

complete documentation of his or her assets or the amount 

or source of his or her income.
Option ARMs
The option ARM real estate loan product is an adjustable-
rate mortgage loan that provides the borrower with the 

option each month to make a fully amortizing, interest-only 

or minimum payment. The minimum payment on an option 

ARM loan is based on the interest rate charged during the 

introductory period. This introductory rate is usually 

significantly below the fully indexed rate. The fully indexed 

rate is calculated using an index rate plus a margin. Once 

the introductory period ends, the contractual interest rate 

charged on the loan increases to the fully indexed rate and 

adjusts monthly to reflect movements in the index. The 

minimum payment is typically insufficient to cover interest 

accrued in the prior month, and any unpaid interest is 
Glossary of Terms
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report313deferred and added to the principal balance of the loan. 
Option ARM loans are subject to payment recast, which 

converts the loan to a variable-rate fully amortizing loan 

upon meeting specified loan balance and anniversary date 

triggers.
Prime
Prime mortgage loans are made to borrowers with good 
credit records who meet specific underwriting 

requirements, including prescriptive requirements related 

to income and overall debt levels. New prime mortgage 

borrowers provide full documentation and generally have 

reliable payment histories.
Subprime
Subprime loans are loans that, prior to mid-2008, were 
offered to certain customers with one or more high risk 

characteristics, including but not limited to: (i) unreliable or 

poor payment histories; (ii) a high LTV ratio of greater than 

80% (without borrower-paid mortgage insurance); (iii) a 

high debt-to-income ratio; (iv) an occupancy type for the 

loan is other than the borrower’s primary residence; or (v) a 

history of delinquencies or late payments on the loan.
Multi-asset: Any fund or account that allocates assets under 
management to more than one asset class.
N/A:
 Data is not applicable or available for the period 
presented.
Net charge-off/(recovery) rate: 
Represents net charge-
offs/(recoveries) (annualized) divided by average retained 
loans for the reporting period.
Net production revenue:
 Includes net gains or losses on 
originations and sales of mortgage loans, other production-

related fees and losses related to the repurchase of 

previously-sold loans.
Net mortgage servicing revenue 
includes the following 
components:
Operating revenue predominantly represents the return on 
Mortgage Servicing’s MSR asset and includes:

– Actual gross income earned from servicing third-party 
mortgage loans, such as contractually specified 
servicing fees and ancillary income; and
– The change in the fair value of the MSR asset due to 
the collection or realization of expected cash flows.
Risk management represents the components of

Mortgage Servicing’s MSR asset that are subject to ongoing 

risk management activities, together with derivatives and 

other instruments used in those risk management activities.Net yield on interest-earning assets: 
The average rate for 
interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all 

sources of funds.
NM: Not meaningful.
Nonaccrual loans:
 Loans for which interest income is not 
recognized on an accrual basis. Loans (other than credit 
card loans and certain consumer loans insured by U.S. 
government agencies) are placed on nonaccrual status 
when full payment of principal and interest is not expected 
or when principal and interest has been in default for a 
period of 90 days or more unless the loan is both well-
secured and in the process of collection. Collateral-
dependent loans are typically maintained on nonaccrual 
status.Nonperforming assets: 
Nonperforming assets include 
nonaccrual loans, nonperforming derivatives and certain 

assets acquired in loan satisfaction, predominantly real 

estate owned and other commercial and personal property.
Over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives: 
Derivative contracts 
that are negotiated, executed and settled bilaterally 
between two derivative counterparties, where one or both 

counterparties is a derivatives dealer.
Over-the-counter cleared (“OTC-cleared”) derivatives: 
Derivative contracts that are negotiated and executed 

bilaterally, but subsequently settled via a central clearing 

house, such that each derivative counterparty is only 

exposed to the default of that clearing house.
Overhead ratio: 
Noninterest expense as a percentage of 
total net revenue.

Participating securities: 
Represents unvested stock-based 
compensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to 
dividends or dividend equivalents (collectively, “dividends”), 

which are included in the earnings per share calculation 

using the two-class method. JPMorgan Chase grants 

restricted stock and RSUs to certain employees under its 

stock-based compensation programs, which entitle the 

recipients to receive nonforfeitable dividends during the 

vesting period on a basis equivalent to the dividends paid to 

holders of common stock. These unvested awards meet the 

definition of participating securities. Under the two-class 

method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are 

allocated to each class of common stock and participating 

securities, based on their respective rights to receive 

dividends.Personal bankers: 
Retail branch office personnel who 
acquire, retain and expand new and existing customer 

relationships by assessing customer needs and 
recommending and selling appropriate banking products 
and services.
Glossary of Terms
314JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual ReportPre-provision profit/(loss): 
Represents total net revenue 
less noninterest expense. The Firm believes that this 

financial measure is useful in assessing the ability of a 
lending institution to generate income in excess of its 
provision for credit losses.
Pretax margin: Represents income before income tax 
expense divided by total net revenue, which is, in 
management’s view, a comprehensive measure of pretax 
performance derived by measuring earnings after all costs 
are taken into consideration. It is one basis upon which 
management evaluates the performance of AM against the 
performance of their respective competitors.
Principal transactions revenue: 
Principal transactions 
revenue includes realized and unrealized gains and losses 

recorded on derivatives, other financial instruments, private 

equity investments, and physical commodities used in 

market making and client-driven activities. In addition, 

Principal transactions revenue also includes certain realized 

and unrealized gains and losses related to hedge accounting 

and specified risk management activities including: (a) 

certain derivatives designated in qualifying hedge 

accounting relationships (primarily fair value hedges of 

commodity and foreign exchange risk), (b) certain 

derivatives used for specified risk management purposes, 

primarily to mitigate credit risk, foreign exchange risk and 

commodity risk, and (c) other derivatives.
Purchased credit-impaired (“PCI”) loans: 
Represents loans 
that were acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction 
and deemed to be credit-impaired on the acquisition date in 

accordance with the guidance of the Financial Accounting 
Standards Board (“FASB”). 
The guidance allows purchasers 
to aggregate credit-impaired loans acquired in the same 

fiscal quarter into one or more pools, provided that the 

loans have common risk characteristics 
(e.g., product type, 
LTV ratios, FICO scores, past due status, geographic 

location). A pool is then accounted for as a single asset with 

a single composite interest rate and an aggregate 

expectation of cash flows.
Real assets: 
Real assets include investments in productive 
assets such as agriculture, energy rights, mining and timber 

properties and exclude raw land to be developed for real 

estate purposes.Real estate investment trust (“REIT”): 
A special purpose investment vehicle that provides investors with the ability to 
participate directly in the ownership or financing of real-

estate related assets by pooling their capital to purchase 

and manage income property (i.e., equity REIT) and/or 

mortgage loans (i.e., mortgage REIT). REITs can be publicly-

or privately-held and they also qualify for certain favorable 
tax considerations.
Receivables from customers: 
Primarily represents margin 
loans to prime and retail brokerage customers which are 
included in accrued interest and ac
counts receivable on the 
Consolidated balance sheets.
Reported basis: 
Financial statements prepared under U.S. 
GAAP, which excludes the impact of taxable-equivalent 

adjustments.Retained loans: 
Loans that are held-for-investment (i.e., 
excludes loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value).
Revenue wallet:
 Proportion of fee revenue based on 
estimates of investment banking fees generated across the 
industry (i.e., the revenue wallet) from investment banking 
transactions in M&A, equity and debt underwriting, and 
loan syndications. Source: Dealogic, a third party provider 
of investment banking competitive analysis and volume-
based league tables for the above noted industry products.
Risk-weighted assets (“RWA”)
: Basel III establishes two 
comprehensive methodologies for calculating RWA (a 
Standardized approach and an Advanced approach) which 

include capital requirements for credit risk, market risk, and 

in the case of Basel III Advanced, also operational risk. Key 

differences in the calculation of credit risk RWA between the 

Standardized and Advanced approaches are that for Basel 

III Advanced, credit risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive 

approaches which largely rely on the use of internal credit 

models and parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized, 

credit risk RWA is generally based on supervisory risk-

weightings which vary primarily by counterparty type and 

asset class. Market risk RWA is calculated on a generally 

consistent basis between Basel III Standardized and Basel III 

Advanced, both of which incorporate the requirements set 

forth in Basel 2.5.
Sales specialists: Retail branch office and field personnel, 
including relationship managers and loan officers, who 

specialize in marketing and sales of various business 

banking products (i.e., business loans, letters of credit, 

deposit accounts, Commerce Solutions, etc.) and mortgage 

products to existing and new clients.
Seed capital: Initial JPMorgan capital invested in products, 
such as mutual funds, with the intention of ensuring the 
fund is of sufficient size to represent a viable offering to 

clients, enabling pricing of its shares, and allowing the 

manager to develop a track record. After these goals are 

achieved, the intent is to remove the Firm’s capital from the 

investment.
Short sale: 
A short sale is a sale of real estate in which 
proceeds from selling the underlying property are less than 

the amount owed the Firm under the terms of the related 

mortgage and the related lien is released upon receipt of 

such proceeds.
Structural interest rate risk:
 Represents interest rate risk 
of the non-trading assets and liabilities of the Firm.
Structured notes:
 Structured notes are predominantly 
financial instruments containing embedded derivatives. 
Where present, the embedded derivative is the primary 
driver of risk.
Glossary of Terms
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report315Suspended foreclosures:
 Loans referred to foreclosure 
where formal foreclosure proceedings have started but are 
currently on hold, which could be due to bankruptcy or loss 
mitigation. Includes both judicial and non-judicial states.
Taxable-equivalent basis: 
In presenting managed results, 
the total net revenue for each of the business segments and 
the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, 
revenue from investments that receive tax credits and tax-
exempt securities is presented in the managed results on a 
basis comparable to taxable investments and securities; the 
corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt 
items is recorded within income tax expense.
Troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”): 
A TDR is deemed to occur when the Firm modifies the original terms of a loan 
agreement by granting a concession to a borrower that is 

experiencing financial difficulty.
Unaudited: Financial statements and information that have 
not been subjected to auditing procedures sufficient to 

permit an independent certified 
public accountant to express an opinion.
U.S. GAAP: 
Accounting principles generally accepted in the 
U.S.

U.S. government-sponsored 
enterprises (“U.S. GSEs”) and 
U.S. GSE obligations: In the U.S., GSEs are quasi-
governmental, privately-held entities established by 

Congress to improve the flow of credit to specific sectors of 
the economy and provide certain essential services to the 

public. U.S. GSEs include Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but 

do not include Ginnie Mae, which is directly owned by the 

U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. U.S. 

GSE obligations are not explicitly guaranteed as to the 

timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and 

credit of the U.S. government.
U.S. Treasury: 
U.S. Department of the Treasury.
Value-at-risk (“VaR”): 
A measure of the dollar amount of 
potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary 
market environment. 
Warehouse loans: 
Consist of prime mortgages originated 
with the intent to sell that are accounted for at fair value 
and classified as trading assets.
Washington Mutual transaction: 
On September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain of the assets of the 
banking operations of Washington Mutual Bank 

(“Washington Mutual”) from the FDIC.
316JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report
317
Rt. Hon. Tony Blair
Chairman of the Council
Former Prime Minister of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland 
London, United Kingdom
Alberto Baillères
Presidente del Consejo de Administración

Grupo Bal México D.F., Mexico
Paul Bulcke
C
Nestlé S.A. Vevey, SwitzerlandJamie Dimon1 Chairman and Chief Executiv
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
New York, New York
Martin Feldstein
Professor of Economics
Harvard University 
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Armando Garza SadaChairman of the Board 
ALPHA San Pedro Garza García, Mexico 
Hon. Robert M. Gates
Partner 
RiceHadleyGates LLC 
Washington, District of Columbia
Herman GrefChief Executiv,  
Chairman of the Executive Board 
Sberbank Moscow, Russia
Jürgen GrossmannOwner 
Georgsmarienhütte Holding GmbH 
Hamburg, Germany
William B. Harrison, Jr.
Former Chairman and  
Chief Executiv
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
New York, New York
Hon. Carla A. Hills
Chairman and Chief Executiv

Hills & Company International  
Consultants 
Washington, District of Columbia
Hon. John Howard OM AC
Former Prime Minister of Australia 

Sydney, Australia
Joe Kaeser
President and Chief Executiv

Siemens AG 
Munich, GermanyHon. Henry A. Kissinger
Chairman 
Kissinger Associates, Inc. 
New York, New York
Jorge Paulo Lemann
Director 
H.J. Heinz Company 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Sergio MarchionneChief Executiv 
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. 
Auburn Hills, Michigan
Gérard Mestrallet
Chairman and Chief Executiv 
ENGIE Paris la Défense, France
Akio Mimura
Senior Advisor and Honorary Chairman 
Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal  Corporation 
Tokyo, Japan
Patrice Motsepe
Founder and Executive Chairman 

African Rainbow Minerals Limited 
Chislehurston, Sandton, South Africa 
Amin H. NasserPresident and Chief Executiv
Saudi Aramco 
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia
Michael Pram Rasmussen
Chairman of the Board 
A.P. Møller-Maersk Group 
Copenhagen, Denmark
Hon. Condoleezza Rice
Partner 
RiceHadleyGates LLC 
Stanford, California
Ratan Naval Tata
Chairman 
Tata Trusts 
Mumbai, IndiaHon. Tung Chee Hwa GBM
Vice Chairman 
National Committee of the Chinese 
People’s Political Consultative Conference
Hong Kong, The People’s Republic  

of China
Cees J.A. van Lede
Former Chairman and Chief Executive 

, Board of Management 
Akzo Nobel 
Amsterdam, The NetherlandsDouglas A. Warner III
Former Chairman of the Board 

JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
New York, New York
John S. Watson
Chairman of the Board and  
Chief Executiv
Chevron Corporation 
San Ramon, California
Yang Yuanqing
Chairman and Chief Executiv

Lenovo 
Beijing, China
Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala
Chairman and Chief Executiv
Ayala Corporation 
Makati City, Philippines
J.P. Morgan International Council
As of January 31, 2016
1 Ex
318JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report
Linda B. Bammann 4, 5
Retired Deputy Head of Risk  
Management
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 

(Financial services)  
James A. Bell 
1Retired Executive Vice President

The Boeing Company 

(Aerospace)  
Crandall C. Bowles 
1, 4Chairman Emeritus

The Springs Company 

(Diversiﬁed investments)
Stephen B. Burke 
2, 3
Chief Executiv

NBCUniversal, LLC

(Television and entertainment) 
James S. Crown 
5President 

Henry Crown and Company  

(Diversiﬁed investments)
James Dimon Chairman and  

Chief Executiv

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Timothy P. Flynn 
4, 5
Retired Chairman and  

Chief Executiv

KPMG  
(Professional services)
Laban P. Jackson, Jr. 
1Chairman and Chief Executiv

Clear Creek Properties, Inc.

(Real estate development) 
Michael A. Neal 
5Retired Vice Chairman 

General Electric Company

and Retired Chairman 

and Chief Executiver  

GE Capital  
(Industrial and ﬁnancial services) 
Lee R. Raymond 
2, 3
Lead Director, 

JPMorgan Chase & Co. 

Retired Chairman and 

Chief Executiv

Exxon Mobil Corporation  

(Oil and gas)William C. Weldon 
2, 3
Retired Chairman and 

Chief Executiv

Johnson & Johnson 
(Health care products)

 Board of DirectorsMember of:
1 Audit Committee

2 Compensation &  
  Management Development  

  Committee
3 Corporate Governance &  
 Nominating Committee
4 Public Responsibility  
  Committee
5 Directors’ Risk Policy Committee
Operating CommitteeJames DimonChairman and  
Chief Executiv
Ashley BaconC
John L. Donnelly
Head of Human Resources  
Mary Callahan Erdoes
CEO, Asset Management
Stacey Friedman
General Counsel
Marianne Lake
Chief F
Douglas B. Petno
CEO, Commercial Banking
Daniel E. Pinto
CEO, Corporate & Investment Bank 

and CEO, EMEA
Gordon A. Smith
CEO, Consumer & Community Banking
Matthew E. Zames
Chief Operatin
Joseph M. Evangelisti
Corporate Communications 
Anthony J. Horan
Secretary
Mark W. O’Donovan
Controller 
Peter L. Scher 
Corporate Responsibility
James R. Vallone
General Auditor
Sarah M. Youngwood
Investor Relations
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report
319
JPMorgan Chase Vice Chairmen
Asia Paciﬁc
Australia and New Zealand
Robert C. Priestley
China
David Li 
Hong Kong
Kam Shing Kwang 
India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka
Kalpana Morparia 
IndonesiaHaryanto T. Budiman
Japan Steve Teru Rinoie 
Korea 
Tae Jin Park 
Malaysia
Steve R. Clayton
Pakistan
Muhammad Aurangzeb
PhilippinesRoberto L. Panlilio
Singapore
Edmund Y. Lee
Taiwan
Carl K. Chien
ThailandM.L. Chayotid Kridakon 
Vietnam
Van Bich Phan
EMEA
France and Benelux
Kyril Courboin 
Belgium Tanguy A. Piret 
Netherlands Peter A. Ke
Germany, Austria and Switzerland 
Dorothee Blessing
Austria 
Anton J. Ulmer
Switzerland 
Nick Bossart
Iberia, Italy, Greece, Central & 
Eastern Europe, Nordics  

and Israel 
Enrique Casanueva
Iberia Ignacio de la Colina
Italy Camillo Greco 
Guido M. NolaIsrael 
Roy Navon
Ireland
Carin Bryans
Russia/Central Asia
Yan L. Tavrovsky
Middle East, Turkey and Africa 
Sjoerd Leenart
Bahrain/Egypt/Lebanon 
Ali MoosaNigeria Tosin T. Adewuyi
Sub-Saharan Africa 
Marc J. Hussey
Turkey/Azerbaijan
Mustafa Bagriacik
Latin AmericaAndean/Central America/ 
CaribbeanMoises MainsterArgentina/Uruguay/Bolivia/ 

Paraguay
Facundo D. Gomez Minujin
Brazil
José BerenguerChile
Alfonso Eyzaguirre
Mexico
Eduardo F. Cepeda
North America 
CanadaDavid E. Rawlings
Regional Chief Executiv
Asia Paciﬁc
Nicolas AguzinEurope/Middle East/Africa
Daniel E. Pinto
Viswas Raghavan
, Deputy CEO
Latin America/Canada
Martin G. Marron
Melissa L. Bean

Phyllis J. Campbell

Stephen M. Cutler
Jacob A. Frenkel

Walter A. Gubert

S. Todd Maclin

Mel R. Martinez
David Mayhew

Emilio Saracho

Peter L. Scher
320JPMorgan Chase & Co./2015 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Corporate headquarters
270 Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10017-2070 

Telephone: 212-270-6000 

jpmorganchase.com
Principal subsidiariesJPMorgan Chase Bank,  
 National Association 

Chase Bank USA,  

 National Association 

J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 

J.P. Morgan Securities plc 
Annual Report on Form 10-K
The Annual Report on Form 10-K of  
JPMorgan Chase & Co. as ﬁled with the  

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  

will be made available without charge  

upon request to:
etary 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
270 Park Avenue 

New York, NY 10017-2070
Stock listing
New York Stock Exchange 
London Stock Exchange
The New York Stock Exchange ticker  
symbol for the common stock of  

JPMorgan Chase & Co. is JPM.
Financial information about JPMorgan  
Chase & Co. can be accessed by visiting  

the Investor Relations website at  

jpmorganchase.com. Additional  

questions should be addressed to:
Investor Relations 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
270 Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10017-2070 

Telephone: 212-270-6000
DirectorsTo contact any of the Board members or 
committee chairs, the Lead Independent 

Director or the non-management directors 

as a group, please mail correspondence to:
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
Attention (Board member(s)) 

etary 
270 Park Avenue 
New York, NY 10017-2070
The Corporate Governance Principles of  
the Board, the charters of the principal 

Board committees, the Code of Conduct, 

the Code of Ethics for Finance Professionals 

and other governance information can  

be accessed by visiting our website at  

jpmorganchase.com and clicking on  

“Governance” under the “About us” tab. 
Transfer agent and registrar
Computershare  
480 Washington Boulevard 

Jersey City, NJ 07310-2053 

Telephone: 800-758-4651 
computershare.com
Investor Services Program 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Investor Services  
Progrers a variety of convenient,  
low-cost services to make it easier to  
reinvest dividends and buy and sell shares  

of JPMorgan Chase & Co. common stock.  

A brochure and enrollment materials may 

be obtained by contacting the Program 

Administrator, Computershare, by calling  

800-758-4651, by writing to the address 

indicated above or by visiting its website at  

www-us.computershare.com/Investor.
Direct deposit of dividendsFor information about direct deposit  
of dividends, please contact  

Computershare.
Stockholder inquiries
Contact Computershare:
By telephone:
 Within the United States, Canada and  
 Puerto Rico: 800-758-4651 

 (toll free)
From all other locations:  
 201-680-6862 (collect)
 TDD service for the hearing impaired  
 within the United States, Canada and  

 Puerto Rico: 800-231-5469  

 (toll free) 
 All other locations:  
 201-680-6610 (collect)
By regular mail:
Computershare  
P.O. Box 30170 

College Station, TX 77842 

United States
By overnight delivery:
Computershare  
211 Quality Circle 

Suite 210  College Station, TX 77845 
United States 
Duplicate mailingsIf you receive duplicate mailings because 
you have more than one account listing 
and you wish to consolidate your  

accounts, please write to Computershare 

at the address ab
ove.Independent registered public  
accounting ﬁrmPricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
300 Madison Avenue 

New York, NY 10017-6204
˚
˚
ˇ


“˚˚









‘•˚˚˚
˚




††

˝˝š

−




˛

š†

“˚™ﬁ

Œš
Š˚ŸŒ
Š
‚†

š“
˜
˜˚˛˝˙˛˝ˆ˛˙


˛˛˜˚˛˝˛˛
˛


˛˛˛
†˛

˛˛˛
˛
€ˆ˝˝•ˇ˛˛
˛˛˛
˛
€ˆ˝
˛˛˛
˛


˛˛
†˛


˛

˛˛
†˛
˛
˛˛˛
˛
⁄
˛˛˛
˛

˛˛˛
˛‘’ƒ“‡

˛˛˛˛˛
˛


−
˛˛˛†˛˛−
˛˛˛˛˛˛˛
⁄
˛˛˛˛˛˛
˛

˛˛˛˛
˛

˛˛˛˛˛
˛


ﬁ

˛˛†˛


˛˛˛˛
˛

˛˛
˛
˚
˛˛˛
˛
˛˛

˝ˆˇ˚ƒ˛ı˙

ƒ
˛˛−˝ˆƒ˛ž˜˛


˛˛ƒ˛ıﬂ˜€˛
ı¢
˛˛

˜



……
ˇ…ˇ

–…

…ˇ


⁄˛‘˝˛−

ˇ˝˛˙
80633jp_cover.indd   24/6/16   1:46 PMjpmorganchase.com
